Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia, and is characterized by a degeneration of neurones and their synapses, and a higher number of senile plaques (SP) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) compared with that found in non-demented individuals of the same age. NFT are composed of a hyperphosphorylated and ubiquitinated form of tau protein. Previous studies have found that in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) both tau and ubiquitin are increased in AD. We examined CSF-tau and CSF-ubiquitin in a population based sample of 85-year-olds, 26 demented (11 with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD), 13 with probable vascular dementia (VAD) and 2 with mixed (AD/VAD) type of dementia) and 35 non-demented individuals. CSF-tau was significantly higher both in the probable AD group (254 +/- 113 pg/mL; P &lt; 0.01), and in the probable VAD group (247 +/- 75 pg/mL; P &lt; 0.005), than in the non-demented group (171 +/- 78 pg/mL), but did not significantly differ between the probable AD and probable VAD groups. In contrast, CSF-ubiquitin did not significantly differ between the probable AD (100 +/- 24 ng/mL), probable VAD (102 +/- 16 ng/mL), and non-demented (97 +/- 27 ng/mL) groups. CSF-tau increased with increasing severity of dementia (P &lt; 0.001), though no such relation was found for CSF-ubiquitin. Neither CSF-tau nor CSF-ubiquitin differed between patients with or without the apolipoprotein E E4 isoform. Higher CSF-tau and CSF-ubiquitin levels were also associated with increasing degree of cortical and central brain atrophy as measured by computerized tomography. The relationships between CSF-tau and severity of dementia and to brain atrophy suggest that CSF-tau may be used as a measure of neuronal/axonal degeneration in patients with dementia. We have previously shown a marked increase in both CSF-tau and CSF-ubiquitin in younger patients with AD and VAD. The less pronounced increase in CSF-tau and the lack of difference in CSF-ubiquitin in older patients suggest that the severity of the degenerative process is less in older than in younger demented patients.
The arginine vasopressin (AVP) released from the hypothalamic slices containing paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of Sprague-Dawley rats sectioned with vibratome and incubated in static microchambers was measured by radioimmunoassay, and the rapid effect and its underlying mechanism of glucocorticoids (GC) on AVP release were investigated. The results were as follows: (1) AVP was steadily released at a rate of 9.1 +/- 1.2 pg/min/well for as long as 6 h. (2) Corticosterone (B), within 20 min, inhibited AVP release in a dose-dependent manner from 10(-7) to 10(-4) mol/l. (3) Cortisol, 17beta-estradiol, or testosterone (all in 10(-6) mol/l) to some extent also inhibited AVP release, but dexamethasone, aldosterone, progesterone, RU 38486 or cholesterol had no significant inhibition on AVP release. (4) The rapid inhibitory effect of B was not affected by actinomycin D, puromycin or colchicine. (5) RU 38486 (10(-5)-10(-3) mol/l) could partially block the rapid inhibitory effect of B, although it did not by itself change AVP release. (6) With the elevation of Ca2+ in the incubation medium, the AVP release was increased and the rapid inhibitory effect of B enhanced; while in the absence of Ca2+ the AVP release decreased and the effect of B attenuated. (7) The rapid inhibitory effect of B was enhanced in the presence of neomycin, although the latter had no influence on AVP release. (8) Aminophylline did not affect the rapid inhibitory effect of B. These results indicated that the rapid inhibitory effect of GC might be a nongenomic rather than the classical genomic one, and that the extracellular Ca2+ play a role in the rapid effect of GC on AVP release. The significance of the rapid action of GC in the rapid negative feedback regulation of AVP release from hypothalamus of rats was discussed.
Expression of the neuropeptide galanin in the adrenal gland is rapidly induced by reflex stimulation of the splanchnic nerve following insulin-induced hypoglycemia. Here, we examine the cellular localization and mechanism of galanin mRNA upregulation in the adrenal gland after insulin administration, by Northern blot and in situ histochemical hybridization analysis. A 5- to 16-fold increase in galanin mRNA levels, measured by Northern blot hybridization using a rat galanin cRNA probe, was observed after insulin-induced hypoglycemia. An increase in galanin mRNA levels could be detected as early as two hours after administration of a single dose (10 U/kg) of insulin (Iletin II), consistent with the increase in galanin peptide levels in the adrenal gland within 24 h of insulin shock. Insulin-induced galanin mRNA upregulation was confined to the rat adrenal: neither hypothalamic nor pituitary levels of GAL mRNA were altered by insulin treatment. Adrenal galanin mRNA levels were maximally increased by 4 h, remained maximally elevated for at least 48 h, and had returned to baseline 6 days after insulin administration. In situ hybridization analysis localized galanin mRNA induction to scattered groups of chromaffin cells throughout the medulla. These data demonstrate that regulation of GAL biosynthesis in the adrenal medulla occurs at a pretranslational level, and in a subpopulation of chromaffin cells. Rapid and robust upregulation of galanin biosynthesis in chromaffin cells upon insulin-induced splanchnic nerve stimulation suggests a hormonal or paracrine role for galanin in the adrenomedullary response to hypoglycemic shock.
Positron emission tomography (PET) has proven to be a powerful tool in identifying the functional neuroanatomy underlying cognitive and sensorimotor processing. In this paper, we present a method for mathematically modeling the changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as a function of experimental parameters using step and linear functions. PET was used to measure rCBF in six subjects who tracked a target moving with constant amplitude across a computer screen at four different frequencies. Each subject tracked the target by flexing and extending the wrist. Two scans were performed at each frequency. The data for each subject were normalized by the mean blood flow in each scan and scaled to the mean blood flow at rest. Scaled rCBF was regressed onto movement frequency to identify voxels which had either a significant linear or step function response to the frequency of movement. A group analysis was also performed to identify significant functional changes common to all subjects. Significant rCBF increases in relation to movement frequency were found in the supplementary motor area, primary motor cortex, premotor cortex, thalamus, and cerebellum and localized using the Talairach atlas. Habituation of responses was not observed.
Cerebral venography and manometry in nine patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension consistently showed venous hypertension in the superior sagittal sinus and proximal transverse sinuses, with a significant drop in venous pressure at the level of the lateral third of the transverse sinus. The abnormality, clearly demonstrated by manometry, was not well shown on the venous phase of cerebral angiography. The appearance of the transverse sinus on venography varied from smooth tapered narrowing to discrete intraluminal filling defects that resembled mural thrombi. Two patients with intracranial hypertension due to minocycline did not show venous hypertension.
Cerebellar long-term depression (LTD) may be reliably induced in the cultured Purkinje neuron when glutamate pulses and Purkinje neuron depolarization are applied together 6 times. When the number of these conjunctive stimuli was reduced to 2, a short-term depression (STD) lasting 20-40 min was induced in 4/12 cells. The enzyme phospholipase A2 cleaves membrane phospholipids causing liberation of free unsaturated fatty acids, which in turn synergistically activate protein kinase C when present with diacylglycerol and Ca. Application of free unsaturated fatty acids with 2 conjunctive stimuli resulted in an apparent conversion of STD cases to LTD. Application of phospholipase A2 inhibitors during 6 conjunctions converted LTD to STD. These findings suggest a model in which liberation of unsaturated fatty acids by phospholipase A2 contributes to a synergistic activation of protein kinase C, the full activation of which results in LTD induction, and the partial activation of which results in STD induction.
We searched for the presence of apoptotic cell death and studied the distribution of bcl-2, an oncoprotein that counteracts apoptosis, in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Brain and spinal cord specimens from 12 ALS patients were compared with those from six non-neurological controls. ALS brain tissue was pre-selected by the presence of reactive cortical damage. Apoptosis was demonstrated by in situ end-labelling of fragmented DNA, a method that is suitable for formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue. All ALS patients exhibited some apoptosis, eight of them did so in each of the three central nervous system (CNS)-levels studied. Apoptosis was not restricted to the motor system, but also affected other neuronal and non-neuronal CNS elements. Apoptosis corresponded with cell shrinkage, and neuronophagia in Nissl stains and with small Nissl-positive bodies. None of the non-neurological controls showed as much apoptosis as any of the ALS cases. Immunocytochemically, the overall distribution of Bcl-2 did not differ between ALS and non-neurological controls. In ALS, however, we found variable degrees of increased Bcl-2 expressed in the nuclei and in the cytoplasm. We found no inverse relationship between apoptosis and bcl-2 expression.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP) is present and synthesized in the testis in large amounts. Messenger RNA encoding the peptide is expressed in a stage specific manner in the developing germ cells. PACAP regulates a variety of physiological actions, among them, paracrine modulation of spermatogenesis. The PACAP peptides are potential ligands of at least three receptor types, the type I PACAP receptor, VIP1 and VIP2 receptors. Although PACAP27 binding sites have found in the testis, the receptor at which it acts has not been identified. We used in situ hybridization with riboprobes to identify the PACAP binding receptor present in the testis. Neither type I PACAP receptor, nor VIP1 receptor mRNA was present within the germ cells. Using the VIP2 receptor probe there was strong labelling within some cross sections of the seminiferous tubuli, while others were not labelled. The in situ results were also confirmed using reverse-transcription PCR (RT-PCR). Our data suggest that PACAP mediates its possible paracrine effect in the testis through the VIP2 receptor.
Effects of the NK1 receptor antagonist CP-99,994 on nicotine-induced emesis were examined in Suncus murinus. CP-99,994 (3 and 10 mg/kg i.p.) attenuated emesis to (-)nicotine (4 mg/kg s.c.). CP-100,263 (3 and 10 mg/kg i.p.), the enantiomer of CP-99,994 with 1000 fold lower affinity for the NK1 receptor was without effect and RP67580 reduced emesis only at a dose of 30 mg/kg i.p. Responses to NK1 antagonists were ranked according to their affinities for the Suncus murinus NK1 receptor.
NMDA channel blockers are potentially advantageous therapeutic agents for the treatment of ischemia and head trauma, which greatly elevate extracellular glutamate, because they should most effectively inhibit high levels of receptor activation. A novel high affinity TCP site ligand, WIN 63480, does not produce MK-801- or PCP-like behavioral activation at anti-ischemic doses. While WIN 63480, MK-801 and PCP were all observed to be effective blockers of open NMDA channels, WIN 63480 had much less access to closed NMDA channels. This difference may be due to the fact that WIN 63480 is hydrophilic (logD = -4.1) while MK-801 and PCP are lipophilic (logD = +1.8). In vivo, closed channel access may result in a non-competitive profile of antagonism for MK-801 and PCP compared to a more uncompetitive profile for WIN 63480. Release of glutamate, and depolarization, are likely to produce a high level of NMDA receptor activation in ischemic areas compared to normal tissue. Consequently, at anti-ischemic doses, WIN 63480 may produce less inhibition of physiological NMDA-mediated processes in neural systems involved in behavioral regulation than MK-801 or PCP, leading to an improved side effect profile.
We report on a right-handed, deaf, life long signer who suffered a left posterior cerebral artery (PCA) stroke. The patient presented with right homonymous hemianopia, alexia and a severe sign comprehension deficit. Her production of sign language was, however, virtually normal. We suggest that her syndrome can be characterized as a case of 'sign blindness', a disconnection of the intact right hemisphere visual areas from intact left hemisphere language areas. This case provides strong evidence that the neural systems supporting sign language processing are predominantly in the left hemisphere, but also suggests that there are some differences in the neural organization of signed vs spoken language within the left hemisphere.
Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) are typically less responsive to phasic noxious stimuli than are their normotensive controls. Here, we used the formalin test to compare behavioral and cardiovascular responses to persistent noxious stimuli. Hindpaw formalin injection produced exaggerated flinching, arterial pressure and heart rate responses in SHRs, suggesting that abnormalities in blood pressure control systems increase nociceptive responses to persistent noxious stimuli.
Bath application of the cAMP analogue, dibutyryl cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (dibutyryl cyclic AMP; dbcAMP) to rat hippocampal slices was found to potentiate both the CA1 population spike and population excitatory post-synaptic potential (EPSP) slope. dbcAMP (500-1000 microM) was applied to slices for 30 min; following washout the population EPSP slope was potentiated for at least 30 min to a mean value of 51% above the drug-free baseline value. The population spike was similarly potentiated to a mean value of 64% above baseline after dbcAMP washout. dbcAMP-induced population EPSP slope potentiation occluded long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by high frequency electrical stimulation, and LTP occluded dbcAMP-induced EPSP slope potentiation. Earlier investigations (Pockett et al., Neuroscience, 52 (1993) 229-236) using 200 microM dbcAMP reported similar potentiation of population spike but no potentiation of EPSP slope. These experiments support the hypothesis that the two components of LTP (Bliss and Lynch, In P.W. Landfield and S.A. Deadwyler (Eds.), Long-term Potentiation: from Biophysics to Behaviour, Alan R. Liss, New York, 1988, pp. 3-72) in the CA1 area of rat hippocampus both involve distinct cAMP-dependent mechanisms.
Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (antisense) are short length single strands of DNA with base sequences complementary to a length of messenger RNA of a specific gene. They can be taken up by neurons and hybridize with a complementary messenger RNA to selectively interrupt the expression of a particular gene. We now describe neuropeptide-specific, short-latency (within 2-6 h) effects of antisense infused into the supraoptic nucleus on the responses of rat neurohypophysical neurons, in vivo, to various stimuli. Oxytocin antisense specifically (i) reduced the electrophysiological responses of putative oxytocin, but not vasopressin neurons, (ii) inhibited cholecystokinin-induced and electrically stimulated release of oxytocin from the neurohypophysis, and (iii) reversibly abolished cholecystokinin-induced expression of Fos within the supraoptic nucleus. Vasopressin antisense reduced the excitatory responses of vasopressin neurons, but not of oxytocin neurons. As neuropeptide content within the supraoptic nucleus and neurohypophysis remains unaltered at this time, antisense may induce anticipatory, feed-forward alterations in electrical activity in addition to any possible effects on peptide synthesis.
We examined functional aspects of co-localization of neuropeptides involved in the regulation of male copulation behaviour in the simultaneous hermaphrodite snail Lymnaea stagnalis. The copulation behaviour is controlled by several types of peptidergic neurons that include a cluster of neurons in the anterior lobe of the right cerebral ganglion. All anterior lobe neurons express the gene encoding Ala-Pro-Gly-Trp-NH2 (APGWamide), and a subset of neurons also express the vasopressin-related conopressin gene. Immunocytochemical and peptide chemical experiments show that both APGWamide and conopressin are transported to the penis complex and the vas deferens via the penis nerve. Co-localization of the two peptides was also observed in some, but not all, axon bundles that run along the vas deferens. APGWamide and conopressin were structurally identified from the penis complex with vas deferens. Conopressin excites the vas deferens in vitro, whereas APGWamide inhibits the excitatory effects of conopressin, both in a dose-dependent fashion. We propose that the antagonistic effects of these peptides on the vas deferens underlie its peristalsis. Thus, these peptides play an important role in the control of ejaculation of semen during copulation.
Neurokinin1 receptors are the primary target of substance P released from neurons during neural transmission, yet little is known regarding the regulation of neurokinin1 receptors on neurons. 125I-Bolton-Hunter-substance P was used in the present studies to determine whether primary cultures of rat neonatal spinal cord express neurokinin1 receptors and, therefore, can be used as a model to explore regulation of neuronal neurokinin1 receptors. 125I-Bolton-Hunter-substance P bound to a single site in neuron-enriched cultures with an affinity of 256 nM, which is comparable to its high affinity binding on adult rat spinal cord. Treatment of neuron-enriched cultures with 10 nM substance P resulted in a 47% decrease in 125I-Bolton-Hunter-substance P binding at 24 h which was due to a decrease in affinity of the receptor. However, at 48 h after treatment with substance P, 125I-Bolton-Hunter-substance P binding increased by 44%. The increase in binding was due to a two-fold increase in receptor density. These changes occurred in the presence of 0.5 microM tetrodotoxin, decreasing the likelihood that the changes in binding were secondary to the release of transmitters by substance P. Furthermore, substance P1-7, a metabolite of substance P that has putative physiological effects, did not alter 125I-Bolton-Hunter-substance P binding. These data provide evidence that neuronal neurokinin1 receptors are under homologous regulation in primary cultures of neonatal rat spinal cord and suggest that a similar mechanism occurs in vivo. Furthermore, the data suggest that a decrease in affinity of the neurokinin1 receptor may contribute, in part, to tachyphylaxis to substance P.
In the rat spinal cord, we found substantial co-existence of fibroblast growth factor-2, fibroblast growth factor receptor (type-1 or flg) immunoreactivity and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase activity (a histochemical marker for neuronal nitric oxide synthase) in preganglionic autonomic cell groups of intermediate layers VI, VII and X. Anti-fibroblast growth factor-2 and anti-nitric oxide synthase binding sites were confined to the cytoplasm of reactive neurons as judged by immunogold electron microscopy. Within the major autonomic nucleus, i.e. intermediolateral column, three different populations were identified: (i) fibroblast growth factor and fibroblast growth factor receptor, (ii) fibroblast growth factor/NADPH-diaphorase and (iii) NADPH-diaphorase-only stained cell groups. Sympathoadrenal neurons were prelabelled with fluorescent tracer Fast Blue and co-stained for fibroblast growth factor-like protein and NADPH-diaphorase, suggesting heterologous diversification of neuronal phenotypes and functional organization in the spinal autonomic system. Our findings suggest intriguing roles for nitric oxide and fibroblast growth factor-2 cytokine in the preganglionic sympathetic spinal cord system: The &quot;short-term&quot; diffusible messenger nitric oxide may act as &quot;tonic&quot; and/or &quot;phasic&quot; signal within rostrocaudally oriented function-specific preganglionic units necessary for integrated target control. The &quot;long-term&quot; messenger fibroblast growth factor-2 may be involved in, for example, cytokine-dependent regulation of neuronal NADPH-diaphorase/nitric oxide synthase. Furthermore, co-existence of NADPH-diaphorase, fibroblast growth factor-2 and receptor in sympathoadrenal neurons suggest mutual target-specific regulatory functions, e.g. hormone release and blood perfusion or maintenance of phenotype and plasticity responsiveness of adrenal medullary tissue.
Age-related functional alterations in a variety of neurotransmitter systems result in modulation of interneuronal communications which has some relevance in neurological deficits observed in the aging process. The synergistic interactions between protein kinase and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (insP3)/Ca2+ pathways underlie a variety of cellular responses to external stimuli. To determine whether age-dependent changes occur in the regulation of protein kinase C and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate/Ca2+ pathways, insP3 contents as a marker for the release of intracellular calcium, saturation binding analysis of Ins P3 receptor using [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, slot/northern blot analysis of Ins P3 receptor-encoding mRNA transcripts, and the activities of Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase C isozymes were investigated in the rat spinal cord. Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate content and [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding site density (Bmax) were quantified in the spinal cords of young (three months old), adult (12 months old) and senescent (25 months old) male Fischer 344 rats. Spinal cord content of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate was increased (P &lt; 0.01) in the 25-month old compared to the three- and 12-month old animals. The density of Ins P3 receptor in particulate membranes derived from the 25-month old rats was reduced (P &lt; or = 0.01), but the binding affinity (Kd) was increased (P &lt; or = 0.04) by a factor of 2.2 and 3.2 at 25 months of age when compared with three- and 12-month old animals, respectively. Young and middle-aged animals showed no differences in both inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate contents and [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding site density. The quantity of Ins P3 receptor mRNA was significantly increased with age in the order 25 &gt; 12 &gt; 3 months of age. Total functional cytosolic and membrane-associated PKC activities were decreased (P &lt; or = 0.05) in the 25-month compared to the three- and 12-month old rats in which activity remained unchanged. Total membrane/cytosolic activity ratios were unchanged by the aging process. In all cases, the activities of membrane-associated conventional protein kinase C isozymes (alpha, beta and gamma), determined by immunoprecipitation followed by in situ quantification of protein kinase C activities in the immunoprecipitates, showed age-dependent decline. The activities of protein kinase C-alpha and beta were significantly decreased in age-related manner. However, the activity of the gamma-isozyme was not significantly changed at 12- and 25-months of age, although it was higher (P &lt; or = 0.03) in young rats. Western blot analyses using affinity purified polyclonal antibodies specific for each isozyme indicated a single protein with an apparent molecular mass of approximately 80 x 10(3) molec. weight for all isozymes except for the beta isozyme that also had an appreciable immunoreactive band at approximately 36 x 10(3) molec. weight. Overall, the aging process did not affect the electropheretic mobility of each isozyme. With decreased protein kinase C activity, the present data suggest that the aging process would decrease protein kinase C-induced phosphorylation of membrane proteins including Ins P3 receptor. A significant change in Ins P3 receptor affinity combined with increased levels of Ins P3 receptor mRNA-encoding transcripts in senescent rats suggests not only a modification (possibly by phosphorylation) of Ins P3 receptor protein but also the existence of multiple (spliced) variants of Ins P3 receptor in spinal neurons with increasing age. The present data indicate that the spinal contents of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate increased with age, but with decreased efficacy and number of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-activatable Ca2+ channels in the spinal cord of senescent rats. These age-related changes may contribute to the attenuated responsiveness of spinal cord neurons by phosphoinositide-coupled receptors during the aging process.
In this study the distribution of the calcitonin receptor isoforms, C1a and C1b, were mapped in rat brain using in vitro autoradiography and manipulation of their different pharmacological specificities. While salmon calcitonin binds to both receptors with high affinity, only the C1a receptor interacts with human calcitonin. Thus, the distribution of C1a specific binding sites was mapped using [125I]human calcitonin. The C1b receptors were mapped using [125I]salmon calcitonin in the presence of unlabelled human calcitonin and rat amylin, displacing binding of [125I]salmon calcitonin to C1a and C3 (amylin) sites, respectively. The distribution of C1a and C1b receptors was found to predominantly overlap. Brain regions displaying C1a, but little or no C1b, binding sites included the nucleus of the solitary tract, area postrema and the intermediate lobe of the pituitary. Although there were no nuclei expressing exclusively C1b receptors, parts of the mesencephalic and pontine reticular formation, and the thalamic paraventricular nucleus were enriched in C1b receptors relative to the density of C1a receptors in other brain regions. These data indicate that the relative expression of the two receptor isoforms, although predominately parallel, is not uniform in the rat brain.
The electrophysiological observations that substance P administration to the lateral septal area elicits both excitatory and inhibitory responses, together with earlier reports on the multiple sources of substance P innervation of the septum, implies that these axons with distinct origins have different functions. This prompted us to examine the origin and neurochemical character of substance P afferents to the lateral septal area. Chronic surgical isolation of the septum from its ventral afferents and retrograde tracer experiments using wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase, both followed by an immunostaining for substance P, were employed to elucidate the origin of these axon terminals. In order to assess the possible co-existence of substance P with other neurotransmitter substances in the parent cells of the septopetal projections, co-localization studies for substance P and choline acetyltransferase, as well as substance P and GABA, were performed. The comparative distribution of substance P fibers and septal calbindin-containing neurons was also investigated using correlated light and electron microscopic double immunostaining. The results are summarized as follows: (i) the substance P innervation of the lateral septal area derives from several hypothalamic nuclei (including the lateral and lateroanterior hypothalamic area, tuber cinereum and ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus) and tegmental nuclei (the majority of fibers from the laterodorsal and a few from the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus), as well as intrinsic septal cells; (ii) the septopetal substance P fibers of tegmental origin are cholinergic; intraseptal substance P neurons located in the dorsolateral part of the lateral septum also contain GABA, while substance P neurons seen on the border between the medial and lateral septal area and septopetal hypothalamic substance P cells do not contain GABA or acetylcholine; (iii) substance P fibers from pericellular baskets around calbindin-containing lateral septal neurons with a high degree of selectivity; (iv) approximately 90% of the entire calbindin cell population are postsynaptic targets of substance P axons; (v) their terminals contact the soma and the dendrites of these cells, among them the somatospiny neurons; and (vi) the extrinsic substance P boutons establish asymmetric, while the intrinsic substance P axon terminals form symmetric membrane specializations. Because neurons in the lateral septal area receive hippocampal input and project massively to hypothalamic areas, the different types of substance P input on these neurons can modify the information flow arriving from the hippocampus to diencephalic brain structures at the level of the lateral septal area.
We examined the role of acetylcholine and nitric oxide in the increases in cerebrocortical blood flow elicited by stimulation of a region of the basal forebrain from which the major cholinergic projection to the cerebral cortex originates. In halothane-anesthetized rats a 3 x 3 mm area of the parietal cortex was exposed and the site was superfused with Ringer (37 degrees C; pH 7.3-7). Cortical blood flow was monitored at the site of superfusion by laser-Doppler flowmetry. The basal forebrain was stimulated electrically (100 microA; 50 Hz) and stimulated sites were histologically verified at the end of the experiment. With Ringer superfusion (n = 8), basal forebrain stimulation increased neocortical flow by 185 +/- 9% (mean +/- S.E.M.). The flow increase was attenuated (-38 +/- 6%; n = 5) by superfusion with the muscarinic cholinergic antagonist atropine (100 microM). Superfusion with atropine plus the nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine (100 microM) did not attenuate the response further (P &gt; 0.05 from atropine alone; n = 6). Superfusion with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor nitro-L-arginine, but not with the inactive isomer nitro-D-arginine (n = 6), attenuated the vasodilation in a dose-dependent fashion (-43 +/- 4% at 1 mM; n = 7) and reduced nitric oxide synthase catalytic activity at the site of superfusion by 95 +/- 4%. Co-application of nitro-L-arginine and atropine did not attenuate the vasodilation further (P &gt; 0.05 from nitro-L-arginine alone; n = 6). Administration of the somewhat selective inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase 7-nitroindazole (50 mg/kg, i.p.) attenuated the increases in flow produced by topical application of N-methyl-D-aspartate (40 microM; n = 5) or by hypercapnia (n = 7), but did not affect the vasodilation produced by basal forebrain stimulation (n = 5) and by topical application of acetylcholine (10 microM; n = 5). 7-nitroindazole reduced constitutive nitric oxide synthase enzymatic activity in forebrain by 72 +/- 3% (n = 8). The data suggest that the neocortical vasodilation elicited by basal forebrain stimulation is, in part, mediated by local release of acetylcholine which, in turn, leads to increased nitric oxide synthesis in endothelial cells.
Pharmacological data have shown that the cholinergic transmission participates in the control of spike-and-wave discharges in rats with genetic absence epilepsy. The corticothalamic circuitry which generates spontaneous spike-and-wave discharges, the electroencephalographic expression of absence seizures, receives important cholinergic inputs from two distinct sources: (i) the nucleus basalis projecting mainly to the cortex and (ii) the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei providing cholinergic afferents to the thalamus. In the present study, the involvement of the cholinergic mesopontothalamic projections in the control of spike-and-wave discharges was investigated. Activation of cell bodies in the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei, by local microinjections of non-toxic doses of kainate (20 pmol/side) or picrotoxin (66 pmol/side), suppressed spike-and-wave discharges. Similar effects were produced by direct cholinergic activation of the ventrolateral part of the thalamus: intrathalamic microinjections of carbachol (0.7-2.8 pmol/side), a cholinergic receptor agonist, resulted in a dose-dependent suppression of spike-and-wave discharges. This suppression was partially reversed by a simultaneous microinjection of an equimolar dose of scopolamine, a muscarinic receptor antagonist. Electrolytic or neuroexcitotoxic lesions of the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei did not modify spike-and-wave discharges. These results suggest that the cholinergic mesopontine projection to the thalamus exerts a phasic inhibitory control of generalized non-convulsive epileptic seizures.
In the present study, we have characterized aspects of integration, growth and phenotypic differentiation of embryonic grafts derived from the selective dissection of either the lateral or medial portion of the ganglionic eminences of the rodent forebrain. Donor tissues were derived from embryonic day 15 rat, or embryonic day 14 mouse embryos, and injected, as single cell suspensions into the striatum or substantia nigra of adult rats previously subjected to an intrastriatal ibotenic acid lesion. Two to six weeks following grafting, immunocytochemical detection of DARPP-32, the 32,000 mol. wt dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, was used to identify areas with a striatum-like phenotype within both the intrastriatal and the intranigral grafts. It was thus revealed that all the lateral ganglionic eminence grafts, irrespective of their placement, were dominated by striatum-like tissue (up to 90% of the total graft volume), while the medial ganglionic eminence transplants were only sparsely positive (&lt; 10% of the total graft volume). These striatum-like regions of the grafts were selectively innervated by tyrosine hydroxylase immunopositive fibres from the host substantia nigra. Furthermore, axons derived from the lateral ganglionic eminence mouse grafts placed in the striatum, as detected by the mouse-specific neuronal marker M6, showed a more extensive and directed outgrowth towards the globus pallidus when compared to fibres emanating from the medial ganglionic eminence grafts. Mouse lateral and medial ganglionic eminence grafts placed into the substantia nigra exhibited similar fibre outgrowth patterns; both types of grafts thus innervated the substantia nigra-pars reticulata and extended axons into the cerebral peduncle. These results show that DARPP-32-positive striatal projection neurons are derived, for the most part, from the lateral ganglionic eminence and that the restricted lateral ganglionic eminence dissection provides a more optimal source of striatal tissue for grafting in the rat Huntington model.
Rats were injected unilaterally with 6-hydroxydopamine either in the medial forebrain bundle or in the dorsolateral substantia nigra. Another group was injected unilaterally with kainate in the striatum. The loss of neurons was assessed by a reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity for dopaminergic neurons, and choline acetyltransferase-like and glutamate decarboxylase-like immunoreactivities for cholinergic and GABAergic neurons, respectively. Brain sections also were analysed by autoradiography on 20 micron sections with the radio-iodinated serotonin-4 receptor antagonist [125I]SB 207710 [Brown A. M. et al. (1993) Br. J. Pharmac. 110, 10P]. Kainate injections in the striatum resulted in loss of choline acetyltransferase- and glutamate decarboxylase-like immunoreactive cell bodies in this area. There was also a decrease in glutamate decarboxylase-like immunoreactivity on the ipsilateral side in the substantia nigra and entopeduncular nucleus. These changes were accompanied by substantial (&gt; 50%) decreases in [125I]SB 207710 binding in both the ipsilateral striatum (confined to the lesioned area) and substantia nigra, with no change in either the nucleus accumbens or the globus pallidus. There was also significant loss of [125I]SB 207710 binding in the ipsilateral entopeduncular nucleus. 6-Hydroxydopamine lesions placed either in the medial forebrain bundle or in the substantia nigra failed to decrease [125I]SB 207710 binding in any of these areas, although there was total loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive terminals in the striatum and cell bodies in the nigra. We conclude that serotonin-4 receptors are present on projection neurons, both on their perikarya in the striatum and terminals in the nigra and entopeduncular nucleus. It is likely that these receptors are located on the GABAergic projection neurons and possibly on cholinergic and GABAergic interneurons. However, serotonin-4 receptors are not located on dopaminergic neurons, either on their cell bodies in the substantia nigra or terminals in the striatum.
Dopamine release from dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra plays an important role in regulating their activity. In the present experiments the whole-cell clamp technique was used to elucidate the modulatory role of dopamine on K+ conductance in substantia nigra neurons in culture. In pars compacta neurons held near the resting potential, dopamine and quinpirole (a D2 receptor agonist) increased membrane conductance. This response was blocked by S(-)-sulpiride, a D2 receptor antagonist. The current-voltage relation of the quinpirole-induced current showed an inward rectification with a reversal potential that approximately equaled the K+ equilibrium potential. Intracellular application of a non-hydrolysable GTP analogue, guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate; 0.1-0.5 mM) into pars compacta neurons produced an initial spontaneous increase in an inwardly rectifying K+ conductance. Quinpirole markedly accelerated this conductance increase. In cells loaded with a poorly metabolized GDP analogue, guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), the quinpirole response was diminished. Treatment of pars compacta neurons with pertussis toxin abolished the D2 response. Intracellular application of cyclic AMP (1 mM) neither mimicked nor occluded the D2 response. These results indicate that D2 receptor agonists produce neuronal inhibition by activating an inwardly rectifying K+ current, that this D2 agonist effect is mediated by a pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein, and that cyclic AMP does not mediate the D2 response. Unexpectedly, in cells loaded with guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) after the inwardly rectifying K+ conductance spontaneously reached a maximum, it started to decline slowly. In cells loaded with guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), the quinpirole response became diminished at first, but then the membrane conductance slowly increased, together with an increase in the quinpirole response. These results were explained by an interplay of two G proteins, one producing an increase and the other producing a decrease in the K+ conductance. In some pars reticulata neurons, R(+)-SKF-38393 (a D1 receptor agonist) reduced an inwardly rectifying K+ conductance; this would excite the neuron under current clamp conditions. The present study shows that cultured substantia nigra neurons produce functional responses to dopamine agonists. Using these neurons, the ionic mechanisms and signal transduction mechanisms of the responses were elucidated in a more critical manner than in previous studies.
We found that deprivation of pattern vision in one eye, that leaves luminance detection performance unaffected, is sufficient to reduce brain-derived neurotrophic factor (but not trkB) messenger RNA in the visual cortex of young and adult rats. Monocular deprivation by means of eyelids' suture was performed during or after the critical period and the cortical amount of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA was analysed by in situ hybridization and RNAase protection after 15-30 days of deprivation. A reduction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA was observed in the visual cortex contralateral to the deprived eye in rats monocularly deprived during the critical period. The same reduction was also found in rats monocularly deprived after the end of the critical period, when anatomical or physiological signs of monocular deprivation are absent. The pharmacological blockade of retinal activity equally affected the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in young and adults. Quantitative RNAase protection assays revealed that the cortical level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA was reduced to the same extent when intraocular injections of tetrodotoxin were performed within or after the critical period. A developmental study of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA expression in rat visual cortex showed a marked increase around the time of natural eye-opening followed by a plateau from postnatal day 20 until adult age. Messenger RNA for the kinasic domain of brain-derived neurotrophic factor receptor (trkB) was found in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and the visual cortex during development and in adults. Our results suggest that the reduction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA induced by monocular deprivation is related to the absence of pattern vision rather than to the competitive interactions that underlie the effects of monocular deprivation during the critical period.
We have investigated the identity and intracellular cascade of responses resulting from activation of the endogenous 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor in the C6 rat glioma cell line. Sequence analysis of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction products derived from C6 glioma cell messenger RNA revealed complete homology with a portion of the rat 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor. The binding of [3H]ketanserin to cell membranes demonstrated a significant correlation with the 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor in rat frontal cortex. On intact cells, 5-hydroxytryptamine stimulated a concentration-dependent increase in phosphatidyl inositide turnover and intracellular [Ca2+] mediated by 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptors. In whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, 5-hydroxytryptamine induced an outward current mediated predominantly by K+ ions (reversal potential = -80 mV). Using caged molecules containing Ca2+ or inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate in the patch electrode solution, we found that rapid photolytic release of Ca2+ and particularly inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate within the cytosol induced an outward current with characteristics similar to those seen after application of 5-hydroxytryptamine. Comparison between differentiated and undifferentiated cells revealed significantly higher receptor density and maximal phosphoinositide response to 5-hydroxytryptamine in undifferentiated cells but the associated rise in [Ca2+]i and activation of an outward current was observed more frequently in differentiated cells. Prolonged exposure of the cells to 5-hydroxytryptamine led to a decrease in all responses and to the down-regulation of receptor number. We conclude that the rat C6 glioma cell expresses a 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor identical to that found in rat brain and that stimulation of the receptor in C6 cells leads to the activation of Ca2+ activated K+ channels via phosphoinositide hydrolysis and subsequent rise in cytosolic Ca2+ ion concentration. However, the contrasting effects of differentiation on receptor number and phosphoinositide response to 5-hydroxytryptamine compared to Ca2+ release and conductance change indicate that a complex relationship exists between the component parts of the receptor-activated cascade.
Induction of heat-shock protein-70 was studied using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry in the adult rat at different times following intraperitoneal injection of kainate. Marked expression of heat-shock protein-70 messenger RNA was observed during the first 24 h, followed by residual signal at 48 h. Inducible heat-shock protein-70 protein was found in sensitive areas not subjected to early cell death, including the lateral, dorsal and cingular cortices, lateral amygdala, thalamus and hippocampus at 12, 24 and 48 h after injection. In the hippocampus, inducible heat-shock protein-70 immunoreactivity was contained in the soma and proximal dendritic region of neurons of CA3, hilus and CA1 at 12 h, and within the entire dendritic arbor at 24 h. Heat-shock protein-70 immunoreactivity decreased in the cell bodies at four days, but delicate immunostaining appeared in the dorsal fornix, fimbria, and ventral and dorsal hippocampal commissures, as well as in the strata oriens and radiatum of CA3, and part of the stratum radiatum of CA1. Inducible heat-shock protein-70 immunoreactivity at day 7 was mainly localized in the strata oriens and radiatum of CA1 and CA3, and inner one-third of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, in which the ipsilateral and commissural hippocampal pathways terminate. These findings show that, in the hippocampus, inducible heat-shock protein-70 is synthesized in the cytoplasm of neurons and subsequently transported at slow rates (about 2-5 mm/day) through the axons to appropriate terminals in the ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampus. A similar pattern is observed for sensitive neurons (heat-shock protein-70 immunoreactive) in the neocortex and thalamus, and labelling of corticocortical, corticostriatal and intrathalamic (between the dorsal and the reticular nuclei) fibres. Since inducible heat-shock protein-70 keeps native proteins unfolded to prevent abnormal configuration following diverse insults, heat-shock protein-70 is proposed as a marker of transient impaired assembly of native proteins in sensitive neurons and axons following intraperitoneal kainate injection.
Mitogen-activated protein kinases are important mediators of signal transduction from the cell surface to the nucleus and their activation has been implicated in a wide array of physiological processes. The extracellular-signal-regulated kinases are the archetypal and best studied members of the mitogen activated protein kinases. Recently, additional subgroups of mitogen activated protein kinases have been identified which exhibit distinct regulatory elements, substrate specificity and respond to diverse extracellular stimuli. Among these newly identified protein kinases are the rat stress-activated protein kinases. Despite a rapidly expanding literature on the biochemical properties of stress-activated protein kinases no anatomical data are yet available. In the present study, we have investigated the regional distribution of messenger RNA transcripts for stress-activated protein kinases in the adult rat central nervous system and compared this distribution to that observed for extracellular-signal-regulated kinases. Intense labelling for stress-activated protein kinases could be detected in discrete brain areas with high levels in hippocampus, neocortex and some nuclei of the brain stem. The apparent hybridization signal appeared to be selectively neuronal. Stress-activated protein kinases and extracellular-signal-regulated kinases hybridization patterns appeared generally dissimilar although a certain degree of co-expression in some brain areas, such as the hippocampal formation, could be observed. These results reveal an extreme complexity in the mitogen-activated protein kinase signalling pathway and suggest the existence of parallel mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades that can be activated independently or in some cases simultaneously, by extracellular stimuli.
The aim of this research was to determine whether in vivo nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopic measurement of N-acetyl aspartate, a neuron specific brain marker, provides a quantitative index of neuronal loss. Five rats were injected unilaterally in the corpus striatum with kainic acid, an analogue of glutamate that causes excitotoxic degeneration of intrinsic neurons, and were subjected to nuclear magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopic imaging. Measurements of N-acetyl aspartate were determined in vivo and compared to post mortem nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopic measures of N-acetyl aspartate and choline acetyl transferase and glutamate decarboxylase activities, biochemical markers for striatal intrinsic neuronal integrity. Mean per cent neuronal survival of hemispheres with lesion versus the contralateral hemispheres measured 72 for glutamate decarboxylase and 71 for N-acetyl aspartate (in vivo), 74 for N-acetyl aspartate (in vitro), and 62 for choline acetyl transferase, respectively. Our studies in rats have shown that estimates of neuronal loss through nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopic measurements of N-acetyl aspartate are equivalent to traditional neuronal enzyme activity assays. The results unequivocally demonstrate that N-acetyl aspartate is a valid and sensitive neuronal marker with the capability of providing accurate assessments of neuronal loss in vivo.
Long-term memory formation for a passive avoidance task in one-day-old chicks requires a late phase of synaptic glycoprotein synthesis (including the neural cell adhesion molecule), commencing 5.5 h post-training. This phase occurred in chicks trained with a strong, but not a weak aversant, which only retained this memory for a few hours (&lt; 10). In addition, previous work has shown that a corticosteroid action through central corticosteroid receptors is also required for long-term passive avoidance memory. Here, we tested the hypothesis that the corticosteroid action on memory formation might be exerted via modulation of the late phase of neural glycoprotein synthesis. One-day-old chicks were used as experimental subjects. Incorporation of the radiolabelled glycoprotein precursor [3H]fucose into synaptic membranes of the chick forebrain was used as an index of glycoprotein fucosylation. Bilateral intracerebral injections of a corticosterone dose (0.5 micrograms/hemisphere) that facilitates long-term retention of weak learning were able to induce the late phase of glycoprotein synthesis in undisturbed chicks. A further experiment examined the effect of antibodies against the neural cell adhesion molecule on the facilitatory action of corticosterone on long-term memory for the weak passive avoidance training. Chicks trained on a weak aversant were injected with corticosterone (0.5 micrograms/hemisphere) 30 min post-training and testing occurred 24 h post-training. Administration of the neural cell adhesion molecule antibodies during the late phase (5.5 h post-training) blocked the facilitatory action of corticosterone on long-term memory. These findings further support the view that corticosteroids have a role in memory consolidation. In addition to previously proposed effects on gene transcription, these data suggest a post-translational glycosylation mechanism for the modulatory effect of corticosteroids on long-term memory formation.
Female mice form an olfactory memory to the pheromones of the mating male during a critical period after mating. Previous experiments have shown that the neural changes underlying this memory are located in the accessory olfactory bulb, are dependent on noradrenergic neurotransmission, and most likely involve changes at the mitral-granule cell reciprocal synapses. Using the technique of in vivo microdialysis we have followed changes in a range of neurotransmitters before, during and after memory formation. The increase in GABA levels in response to a glutamate challenge was greater during and after memory formation than before. The aspartate/GABA ratio was decreased following memory formation, during exposure to the pheromones of the mating male. These findings are consistent with our hypothesis that memory formation involves a long-lasting increase in the inhibition of the subset of mitral cells that respond to the mating male's pheromones. Unexpectedly, there were increases in the concentrations of the excitatory transmitters glutamate and aspartate in non-mating females, immediately following male exposure, and two days later in response to re-exposure to the same male pheromones. These results suggest that exposure to male pheromones alone, without the association of mating, causes a long-lasting decrease in the inhibitory control of the subset of mitral cells responding to these pheromones. The implication of these results is that two types of synaptic plasticity can occur in the accessory olfactory bulb. The association of mating and pheromonal exposure induces memory formation by increasing the inhibition of the pheromonal signal at the level of the accessory olfactory bulb, thereby preventing them from activating the neuroendocrine block to pregnancy. Male exposure without mating appears to have the opposite effect, decreasing the inhibition of the pheromonal signal and potentiating the oestrous-inducing effects of the male pheromones.
The possible modulation by D1 drugs of learning abilities of a population of aged memory-impaired animals was investigated in the present study. The level of D1/[3H]SCH 23390 receptors was first examined by quantitative autoradiography to ascertain if cognitive deficits seen in these animals could be related to alterations in the levels of these receptors. No significant differences in [3H]SCH 23390 binding were observed in any of the brain areas examined between young, and aged memory-unimpaired and aged memory-impaired animals. However, the cognitive deficits of the aged-impaired rats were modulated by D1 drugs. The D1 agonists SKF 38393 and SKF 81297 (3.0 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly reduced the latency period to find a hidden platform in the Morris Water Maze, reflecting improved cognitive functions, while the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (0.05 mg/kg, i.p.) had no overall significant effect. Moreover, the D1 agonist SKF 38393 increased, whereas the antagonist inhibited, in vivo hippocampal acetylcholine release. Taken together, these results suggest that functional hippocampal acetylcholine-dopamine interactions exist in aged memory-impaired rats. More importantly, the cognitive deficits seen in the aged-impaired rats can be attenuated by stimulations of D1 receptors, hence suggesting an alternative approach to alleviate the cognitive deficits seen in the aged brain.
Voltage-dependent magnesium block of N-methyl-D-aspartate-activated channels, and the N-methyl-D-aspartate component of excitatory synaptic currents were studied in CA3 pyramidal neurons of hippocampal slices from immature (postnatal day 3-8) and adult (postnatal day 25-60) rats. In all neurons studied the kinetics of single-channel openings in cell-attached and inside-out configurations was strongly modulated by extracellular Mg2+, in a voltage-dependent manner. No age-dependent difference in the Mg2+ sensitivity of N-methyl-D-aspartate channels was observed. At physiological concentrations of external Mg2+ (1.3 mM), N-methyl-D-aspartate components of excitatory synaptic currents measured from immature and adult rats displayed a similar voltage-dependence. In immature neurons (postnatal day 3-6), the N-methyl-D-aspartate component of excitatory postsynaptic currents decay time-course was a single-exponential with an average time-constant of about 300 ms. In neurons from older animals the decay was described by a double-exponential function with both a fast component (tau f, 54-130 ms) and a slow component (tau s, 275-400 ms). With age, the contribution of the fast component increased and the decay time-course of the N-methyl-D-aspartate component of excitatory postsynaptic currents accelerated. It is concluded that the Mg2+ block of N-methyl-D-aspartate channels in CA3 pyramidal neurons does not change with development, but the kinetic properties of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels are developmentally regulated.
The cellular and subcellular localization of the GluRA, GluRB/C and GluRD subunits of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) type glutamate receptor was determined in the rat hippocampus using polyclonal antipeptide antibodies in immunoperoxidase and immunogold procedures. For the localization of the GluRD subunit a new polyclonal antiserum was developed using the C-terminal sequence of the protein (residues 869-881), conjugated to carrier protein and absorbed to colloidal gold for immunization. The purified antibodies immunoprecipitated about 25% of 3[H]AMPA binding activity from the hippocampus, cerebellum or whole brain, but very little from neocortex. These antibodies did not precipitate a significant amount of 3[H]kainate binding activity. The antibodies also recognize the GluRD subunit, but not the other AMPA receptor subunits, when expressed in transfected COS-7 cells and only when permeabilized with detergent, indicating an intracellular epitope. All subunits were enriched in the neuropil of the dendritic layers of the hippocampus and in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. The cellular distribution of the GluRD subunit was studied more extensively. The strata radiatum, oriens and the dentate molecular layer were more strongly immunoreactive than the stratum lacunosum moleculare, the stratum lucidum and the hilus. However, in the stratum lucidum of the CA3 area and in the hilus the weakly reacting dendrites were surrounded by immunopositive rosettes, shown in subsequent electron microscopic studies to correspond to complex dendritic spines. In the stratum radiatum, the weakly reacting apical dendrites contrasted with the surrounding intensely stained neuropil. The cell bodies of pyramidal and granule cells were moderately reactive. Some non-principal cells and their dendrites in the pyramidal cell layer and in the alveus also reacted very strongly for the GluRD subunit. At the subcellular level, silver intensified immunogold particles for the GluRA, GluRB/C and GluRD subunits were present at type 1 synaptic membrane specializations on dendritic spines of pyramidal cells throughout all layers of the CA1 and CA3 areas. The most densely labelled synapses tended to be on the largest spines and many smaller spines remained unlabelled. Immunoparticle density at type 1 synapses on dendritic shafts of some non-principal cells was consistently higher than at labelled synapses of dendritic spines of pyramidal cells. Synapses established between dendritic spines and mossy fibre terminals, were immunoreactive for all studied subunits in stratum lucidum of the CA3 area. The postembedding immunogold method revealed that the AMPA type receptors are concentrated within the main body of the anatomically defined type 1 (asymmetrical) synaptic junction. Often only a part of the membrane specialization showed clustered immunoparticles. There was a sharp decrease in immunoreactive receptor density at the edge of the synaptic specialization. Immunolabelling was consistently demonstrated at extrasynaptic sites on dendrites, dendritic spines and somata. The results demonstrate that the GluRA, B/C and D subunits of the AMPA type glutamate receptor are present in many of the glutamatergic synapses formed by the entorhinal, CA3 pyramidal and mossy fibre terminals. Some interneurons have a higher density of AMPA type receptors in their asymmetrical afferent synapses than pyramidal cells. This may contribute to a lower activation threshold of interneurons as compared to principal cells by the same afferents in the hippocampal formation.
Epidermal growth factor and transforming growth factor alpha are mitogenic polypeptides that act at the epidermal growth factor receptor, a protein tyrosine kinase.10,16,18,24 Studies have shown that epidermal growth factor and transforming growth factor alpha support the survival and promote the differentiation of central nervous system neurons in vitro.13,21,33 Messenger RNAs for both transforming growth factor alpha and the epidermal growth factor receptor have been identified in the adult and developing mammalian central nervous system, particularly within the neostriatum of young animals.11,15,27,28,30 However, the cell types that synthesize these messenger RNAs in striatum are not well understood. The present study investigates the hypothesis that epidermal growth factor receptor and transforming growth factor alpha are synthesized by striatal GABAergic neurons using double-labeling in situ hybridization in the rat. Most neurons within the neostriatum that intensely expressed messenger RNA for the 67,000 mol. wt isoform of glutamate decarboxylase also expressed messenger RNA for the epidermal growth factor receptor. Scattered striatal cells with neuronal morphology were immunoreactive for epidermal growth factor receptor protein, indicating that epidermal growth factor receptor messenger RNA expressed by striatal neurons is translated. Striatal neurons that expressed high levels of the 67,000 mol. wt isoform of glutamate decarboxylate messenger RNA did not appear to express transforming growth factor alpha messenger RNA. The present study indicates that epidermal growth factor receptor is synthesized by a subpopulation of GABAergic striatal neurons, supporting the hypothesis that transforming growth factor alpha and epidermal growth factor act directly upon neurons to produce their neurotrophic effects. These neurons may be GABAergic interneurons, which have been shown to be relatively resistant to degeneration in Huntington's disease and excitotoxic models of this disease.6,1,9
Retrograde tract-tracing was used to study the projections of adrenal medullary ganglion neurons. The splanchnic nerve was cut close to the suprarenal ganglia and the retrograde tracer FluoroGold was applied at the site of nerve transection. Groups of adrenal medullary ganglion neurons exhibited FlurorGold- or Fast Blue-induced fluorescence restricted to the perikarya. Using immunohistochemistry most retrogradely labelled ganglion neurons showed immunoreactivity for neuropeptide Y. In addition, after splanchnicotomy most ganglion neurons expressed galanin and galanin message-associated peptide immunoreactivities which could not be observed in control adrenals. Taken together, the present results strongly indicate that adrenal medullary ganglion neurons project back into the splanchnic nerve perhaps representing feedback system modulating the preganglionic innervation of the adrenal gland.
Nitric oxide is thought to play an important role in multiple forms of use-dependent synaptic plasticity, including that which follows noxious peripheral stimulation. This suggests that development of nociception-induced neuroplasticity should be impaired in transgenic animals lacking the neuronal form of nitric oxide synthase. We used the formalin model of nociception to test this hypothesis in wild-type and nitric oxide synthase knockout mice. Formalin-induced nociceptive behavior was intact in the knockout mice. Furthermore, administration of a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor blocked nociception-induced neuroplasticity in wild-type mice but had no effect in the knockouts, whereas inhalation of the gaseous analgesic nitrous oxide attenuated development of neuroplastic changes in both phenotypes. These data indicate that nitric oxide is sufficient but not essential for development of nociception-induced neuroplasticity.
It has long been assumed that, in contrast to other vertebrates, mammals are ultraviolet blind. Recent evidence indicates, however, that the spectral sensitivity of the retina in rodents extends into the ultraviolet range. This finding, combined with reports that ultraviolet light can suppress nocturnal melatonin release and reverse the effect of short photoperiod on the gonads, invites speculation about the role of ultraviolet light in photoperiodic control of physiological and behavioral functions. One idea is that ultraviolet light participates in retinally mediated processes underlying photic entrainment of a pacemaker located in the hypothalamic suprachasmatic nucleus that generates circadian rhythms. Consistent with such a function, we now show that ultraviolet light is capable of inducing phase shifts in circadian rhythms in the rat and of inducing in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus expression of the transcription factor Fos, a known cellular correlate of light-induced phase shifts of the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus pacemaker.
The role of nitric oxide or related molecules as neuromodulators was investigated in the buccal and the abdominal ganglia of the mollusc Aplysia californica. In a first step we showed that reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase histochemistry and specific nitric oxide synthase immunohistochemistry labelled the same neurons and fibres in both ganglia, pointing to the presence of a neuronal nitric oxide synthase. In a second step, we performed voltammetric detection of nitric oxide-related molecules using a microcarbon electrode in a reduction mode. A peak identified as N-nitroso-L-arginine was detected at -1.66 V in both ganglia. The identification of this compound as a product of endogenous nitric oxide synthase activity was reinforced by the fact that its peak amplitude was decreased in the presence of NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, and increased with its substrate, L-arginine. An additional proof of a nitric oxide synthase activity was the detection of nitrites and nitrates in high concentrations (millimolar range) by capillary electrophoresis. We also showed that these nitric oxide-related molecules modulated acetylcholine release at two identified synapses in these ganglia. L-Arginine decreased acetylcholine release at the inhibitory synapse (buccal ganglion), whereas it increased acetylcholine release at the excitatory synapse (abdominal ganglion). The nitric oxide synthase inhibitors, N omega-nitro-L-arginine and NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, had opposite effects. Moreover, the exogenous nitric oxide donor, 3-morpholinosydnonimine hydrochloride mimicked the effects of L-arginine on both inhibitory and excitatory cholinergic synapses. The identification of two cholinergic synapses where nitric oxide affects acetylcholine release in opposite ways provides a useful tool to study the cellular mechanisms through which nitric oxide-related molecules modulate transmitter release.
alpha-Latrotoxin, from black widow spider venom, stimulates exocytosis of small synaptic vesicles at central and peripheral synapses. However, it is widely accepted that neuropeptide-containing large dense-core vesicles are insensitive to the toxin. In the present study, we investigated whether alpha-latrotoxin releases neuropeptides from primary afferent and enteric neurons. The guinea-pig renal pelvis is innervated by primary sensory neurons containing tachykinins and calcitonin gene-related peptide, but has no functional cholinergic or noradrenergic motor innervation. alpha-Latrotoxin increased the amplitude of spontaneous myogenic contractions of the renal pelvis, and this effect was prevented by prior capsaicin desensitization and by antagonists at neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-2 receptors. In the presence of the latter antagonists, alpha-latrotoxin decreased the amplitude of the contractions, and this is likely to be mediated by calcitonin gene-related peptide. Thus, alpha-latrotoxin releases tachykinins and calcitonin gene-related peptide from capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons in the renal pelvis. The circular muscle of the guinea-pig distal colon is innervated by excitatory and inhibitory motor neurons, which use a number of transmitters. In the presence of antagonists to block each of the known transmitters apart from the tachykinins, alpha-latrotoxin increased the amplitude of spontaneous contractions; this effect was prevented by the prior addition of neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-2 receptor antagonists. Thus, alpha-latrotoxin stimulates the release of tachykinins from excitatory motor neurons in the myenteric plexus of the distal colon. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that alpha-latrotoxin is able to evoke the release of neuropeptides from both sensory and enteric neurons. This suggests that exocytosis of large dense-core vesicles shares more of the features of exocytosis of small synaptic vesicles than has previously been appreciated.
Prostaglandin D2 is one of the major prostanoids formed from [14C]arachidonic acid by the central nervous system. The aim of the present study is to specify the prostaglandin D2 biosynthetic capacity in the chick spinal cord and to identify the cell type involved in this synthesis. A highly specific and sensitive enzyme immunoassay allowed us to demonstrate that the amount of newly formed prostaglandin D2 increases proportionally with the concentration of free arachidonic acid of either exogenous or endogenous origin and reaches concentration values ranging from 10(-9) to 10(-6) M. The sites of prostaglandin D2 synthesis were localized in Vibratome sections of spinal cord after incubation with antibodies raised against glutathione-independent prostaglandin D synthase; controls were performed with anti-glutathione-dependent prostaglandin D synthase antibodies and non-immune rabbit or goat serum. After immunoprocessing, electron microscope examination revealed that the specific immunoreactivity was confined to small neurons of laminae II and III in the dorsal horn and to motoneurons in the ventral horn of the spinal cord. The immunodeposits were associated with rough endoplasmic reticulum profiles distributed throughout the dorsal horn neurons or restricted to limited subsurface areas of perikarya and dendrites in motoneurons. Since the immunoreactive neurons in the dorsal horn were closely related to blood capillaries, prostaglandin D2 may be suspected to play a role in the regulation of the microcirculation. The accumulation of prostaglandin D synthase in motoneuron areas facing astrocytic membrane stacks suggests that prostaglandin D2 could interact with astrocytic functions.
Compound action potentials and electrotonic responses to 150 ms current pulses were recorded from isolated nerve fascicles of human sural nerve biopsies. Compound action potentials in normal bathing solution were characterized by previously described A beta, A delta and C fibre components. In addition, tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium- or calcium-dependent potential components were found when a mixture of tetrodotoxin and the potassium channel blockers 4-aminopyridine and tetraethylammonium was added to the bathing solution. In contrast to tetrodotoxin-sensitive action potentials, tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium- or calcium-dependent potentials could be recorded in the presence of high extracellular potassium concentrations (10-20 mM). Calcium action potentials were found to be sensitive to specific pharmacological antagonists or agonists of L-, N- and P-type calcium channels. Lidocaine, cadmium, verapamil and capsaicin showed unspecific blocking effects on calcium and tetrodotoxin-resistant potentials. Tetrodotoxin-resistant action potentials seem to originate from unmyelinated C fibres since a clear correlation was found between the number of C fibres and the amplitude of tetrodotoxin-resistant calcium and sodium spikes in preparations with different axon type composition. The evidence for tetrodotoxin-resistant Na+ and Ca2+ spikes in peripheral human axons offers new possibilities for a better understanding and/or treatment of abnormalities in the excitability of damaged or diseased peripheral nerves.
Many chemicals including nicotine, capsaicin and piperine (pungent chemicals in red and black peppers, respectively) evoke oral pain and irritation via largely unknown neural mechanisms. As a first step in defining the central pathway for oral chemical irritation, we have used an immunohistochemical method to map locations of brainstem neurons expressing the nuclear protein, c-Fos (a putative nociceptive marker), following application of various irritants to the tongue. In barbiturate-anesthetized rats, one of the following was applied to the dorsal surface of the tongue: nicotine (0.5%), capsaicin (0.1%), histamine (2 or 20%), piperine (0.2%), acetylcholine (10%) or vehicle control (0.9% saline, dH2O, 70% ethanol). After 2 h the rat was perfused with fixative and the brainstem removed, sectioned, and processed immunohistochemically. Following application of each irritant, fos-immunoreactive nuclei were consistently observed in the superficial dorsal horn of dorsomedial trigeminal nucleus caudalis (-3 to +0.5 mm relative to obex), interstitial (paratrigeminal) nucleus, and area postrema. Approximately equal numbers were observed bilaterally even with unilateral application to the tongue. Fos-immunoreactive nuclei were observed in dorsomedial trigeminal caudalis bilaterally when a restricted area on the tip of the tongue was stimulated with capsaicin, but were located predominantly ipsilaterally following stimulation of the lateral tongue. Few or no Fos-immunoreactive nuclei were seen in these areas in control rats. Numbers of Fos-immunoreactive nuclei were significantly increased following nicotine and capsaicin in ventrolateral trigeminal nucleus caudalis and nucleus of the solitary tract. Fos-immunoreactivity was also seen consistently in the ventrolateral medulla dorsal to the lateral reticular nucleus, and vestibular and cochlear nuclei, and less consistently in nucleus raphe pallidus and inferior olive, in both irritant and in control groups, indicating that it was not stimulus-evoked. These results have identified a population of neurons in the dorsomedial trigeminal nucleus caudalis likely to be involved in signaling chemical irritation of the tongue. Increases in Fos-immunoreactivity observed in the nucleus of the solitary tract, area postrema, and ventrolateral trigeminal caudalis also suggest roles for these areas in autonomic responses consequent to oral irritation.
Multiple descending systems for pain control originate from the rostral medulla and midbrain. These systems are involved in the antinociceptive action produced by opioids. One category of descending inhibitory controls is activated specifically by noxious stimuli and has been termed diffuse noxious inhibitory controls. These controls have been described in both animal and man, but their supraspinal circuitry has not been fully localized. To determine the supraspinal level of integration of nociceptor activated controls and hence their potential relationships with previously described descending controls, we studied in halothane-anesthetized rats the effects of transections performed at various levels in the brainstem. The physiological properties of dorsal horn convergent neurons, including supraspinally-mediated inhibitory processes elicited by heterotopic noxious stimuli, i.e. diffuse noxious inhibitory controls, were not altered in rats in which the brainstem had been completely transected up to 200 microns caudal to the caudal end of the rostral ventromedial medulla. In contrast, the spontaneous activity of these neurons was significantly enhanced and the inhibitory phenomena significantly reduced in animals with transections more than 500 microns caudal to the caudal end of the rostral ventromedial medulla. These effects were not related to cardiovascular changes induced by the transections. These data indicate that some tonic descending inhibitory controls and diffuse noxious inhibitory controls depend upon connections in the caudal medulla. It is proposed that this area constitutes another level from which the transmission of nociceptive information can be modulated and that it acts co-operatively with previously described modulatory systems in the spinal cord and at more rostral levels of the brainstem.
Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings were made from cultured neurons obtained by dissociation of the suprachiasmatic area of rat fetuses. Neurons were held for seven to 14 days in culture. These neurons possessed several voltage-dependent ionic currents. A transient inward Na+ current was present, which could be completely blocked by tetrodotoxin. No inward Ca2+ currents were detected. Three types of outward K+ currents were recorded, which could be separated to a reasonable extent by their differences in voltage sensitivity and pharmacology. These K+ currents corresponded to the transient current IA, the delayed rectifier current IKo and a calcium-dependent current IK(Ca) as described in other neurons. The A current activated at -50 mV, reached half-maximal conductance at about -30 mV and maximum conductance between 0 and 30 mV. During depolarizing steps it inactivated completely within 100 ms and steady-state inactivation was half-maximal at -66 mV. The outward rectifier activated at -30 mV, reached half-maximal conductance close to 0 mV and maximum conductance at about 70 mV. Slow inactivation of IKo occurred with 50% reduction in amplitude at the end of 2 s depolarizations above 0 mV. The K+ channel blocker 4-amino-pyridine (4 mM) reduced the amplitude of IA by 21% and of IKo by 32%, whereas tetraethylammonium (10 mM) decreased IA by 27% and IKo by 83%. The calcium-dependent K+ component was also voltage dependent and was present at voltages more positive than 0 mV. No inward rectifying K+ current was present. Considering its voltage dependence, IA must play a role in determining the excitability of these neurons, through its probable influence on the action potential threshold and interspike interval. Both IA and IKo should take part in membrane repolarization following an action potential. The Ca(2+)-dependent current should also contribute to repolarization following any event which gives rise to an increase in intracellular Ca2+. Apart from IA, which may make a slight contribution, none of these currents appear to be involved in determining the resting membrane potential. All three outward current components will act together in suprachiasmatic neurons to control their spontaneous firing frequency, which is the major feature of the output of these neurons in vivo. Variations in properties of these conductances could contribute to the circadian rhythm in firing frequency described in suprachiasmatic hypothalamic neurons.
Single-unit extracellular and whole-cell patch clamp recording were used to study the actions of exogenously applied 5-hydroxytryptamine on substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons in parasaggital slices of rat midbrain. Seventy-six per cent of substantia nigra pars reticulata cells (254/334) recorded extracellularly were excited by 5-hydroxytryptamine (EC50 = 9.56 microM); in the remainder, inhibitions (13.5%), biphasic responses (4.2%) or lack of response (6.3%) were observed. Using whole-cell patch recording, 5-hydroxytryptamine (10 microM) caused either an inward current (9/9 cells) or a depolarization (3/3 cells) at membrane potentials in the range -50 to -90 mV, which was resistant to tetrodotoxin (4/4 cells), indicating that the predominant, excitatory action of 5-hydroxytryptamine was due to a direct action on substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons. The 5-hydroxytryptamine excitation (recorded extracellularly) was reduced to 24 +/- 6% of control values by methysergide (0.1 microM) and to 17 +/- 5% of control by ketanserin (10 microM), but was unaffected by the 5-hydroxytryptamine antagonists spiperone (0.1 microM), yohimbine (0.1 microM), pindolol (1 microM), GR113808A (1 microM) or ICS 205930 (10 microM). In addition, the 5-hydroxytryptamine excitation was mimicked by the 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptor--preferring agonist alpha-methyl 5-hydroxytryptamine (10 microM), but the agonists CP93, 129 (0.1-1 microM) and (+/-)-2-dipropylamino-8-hydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene hydrobromide (0.1-1 microM) were without effect. Taken together, this pharmacology indicated involvement of the 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptor in the 5-hydroxytryptamine excitation, while other candidate receptors known to be present in rat substantia nigra pars reticulata (5-hydroxytryptamine1B, 5-hydroxytryptamine2A and 5-hydroxytryptamine4) could be excluded from consideration. While in accord with current information on the location of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor subtypes in substantia nigra pars reticulata, and the consequence of activation of neuronal 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptors, these results contrast with data from in vivo experiments which suggest that the net effect of 5-hydroxytryptamine is to inhibit substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons. The reason for this apparent discrepancy may lie in detailed consideration of the microcircuitry of the substantia nigra pars reticulata. This may lead to a re-evaluation of the influence of 5-hydroxytryptamine on this basal ganglia output relay nucleus, and its role in motor control and the gating of generalized seizure activity.
We have previously observed that either hypoxic-ischemic or excitotoxic striatal injury during development is associated with a reduction in the adult number of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. This decrease occurs in the presence of preserved striatal dopaminergic markers and in the absence of direct nigral injury. We have also observed that natural cell death, with the morphology of apoptosis, occurs in the substantia nigra, and that there is an induced apoptotic cell death event following early striatal excitotoxic injury. We now report that forebrain hypoxic-ischemic injury is also associated with an induced cell death event in the substantia nigra, with both morphological and histochemical features of apoptosis. Induced apoptotic cell death occurs in immunohistochemically defined dopaminergic neurons. While the mechanisms for this induced cell death are not yet known, in the case of the pars compacta it may be related to the loss of normal striatal target-derived developmental support. Since dopaminergic neurons are postmitotic at the time of the injury, we conclude that this induced cell death is responsible for the diminished adult number of dopaminergic neurons. We also conclude that hypoxic-ischemic injury to the developing brain in general causes not only direct, necrotic injury to vulnerable regions, but also induced apoptotic death at remote sites. The significance of this finding is that apoptosis is a distinct death mechanism, with unique regulatory pathways, which can potentially be modified by approaches different from those which might influence cell death in regions of direct injury. In view of the present finding that apoptosis can occur in the setting of hypoxic-ischemic injury, and our previous work demonstrating its occurrence following excitotoxic injury, it seems likely that it may occur following other forms of injury to the immature brain in which excitotoxic injury plays a role, such as seizures, head trauma and hypoglycemia.
We have measured the messenger RNA levels of chromogranins A and B and secretogranin II in various brain regions of rats subchronically treated with various antipsychotic drugs. Since, as shown previously, the messenger RNA levels of these peptides are increased when neurons are stimulated, we hoped to identify by this approach those nuclei which are subchronically influenced by these drugs. The drugs chosen were the neuroleptic halperidol, a blocker of dopamine receptors, the atypical antipsychotic clozapine, which in addition to blocking dopamine receptors also blocks those for serotonin, and citalopram, a specific serotonin reuptake inhibitor. In agreement with previous data on neuropeptide messenger RNAs, we found in the dorsolateral striatum an increase of the secretogranin II messenger RNA levels after haloperidol and a much smaller one after clozapine. In the nucleus accumbens and in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, both compounds had a comparable positive effect. These differential effects can be attributed to a different action of these drugs on dopamine receptor subtypes. In the zona incerta, clozapine decreased the secretogranin II and chromogranin A message, whereas in the dorsal raphe it led to an increase. On the other hand, citalopram induced exactly the opposite effects in these two brain regions. This phenomenon can be explained by the differential interaction of these drugs with serotonergic mechanisms. Additional, relatively small changes of the mRNAs were seen in several other brain regions. These results establish that changes in the mRNA levels of the chromogranins are good indicators for the effect of drugs on certain brain nuclei. The concomitant action of haloperidol and clozapine on the limbic regions, i.e. the nucleus accumbens and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, points to these brain regions for the antipsychotic action of these two neuroleptics.
The present study concerns the immunocytochemical localization of the striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase in the rat striatum. A novel molecular biology technique allowed us to produce a complementary DNA-generated polyclonal antibody raised against the non-catalytic domain of the striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase, which selectively recognized the striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase protein with 46,000 mol. wt on western blots. Immunocytochemical analysis with the specific antibody revealed strong striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase immunoreactivity in the striatum. Light microscopy showed striatal striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase-immunopositive neurons to be of medium size (mean diameter of 14.4 microns), and to comprise approximately 80% of the total neuronal population in the striatum. These cells had round, triangular or polygonal cell bodies with relatively little cytoplasm. Nerve fibers stained positively for striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase were also present in the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra, and the nigral labeling on the ipsilateral side almost disappeared subsequent to cerebral hemitransection, suggesting these immunolabeled structures to be striatal projections. Double-immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated separate populations of striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase-positive cells and neurons stained for parvalbumin. Also, ultrastructural study showed that the striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase-positive neurons (n = 50) possessed no nuclear indentations or intranuclear inclusions. Thus, most striatal striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase-positive neurons were thought to be of the medium-sized spinous type. At the light microscopic level, stained striatal neurons exhibited striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase immunolabeling in their somata, dendrites and axonal processes, but not in their nuclei. Electron microscopic observation showed strong striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase-immunoreactivity on the inner surface of the plasmalemma, on the outer surfaces of mitochondria and on microtubules, particularly of dendrites. A heavy deposit of immunoreaction product was also present on postsynaptic densities in labeled dendrites, while a light deposit was seen on the synaptic vesicles of nerve terminals. The characteristic distribution profile of striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase suggested that the enzyme may play a role in a variety of functional properties of striatal neurons, especially in postsynaptic signaling processes and in regulation of microtubular functions. On the basis of the present findings, we propose the following conclusions: (i) a protein tyrosine phosphorylation system regulated by striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase is involved in certain specialized cellular processes (e.g. signal transduction cascades) of medium-sized spinous neurons distinct from those of other neuronal subsets in the striatum; (ii) a striatal medium spiny neuron is characterized by its expression of striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase and, therefore, the enzyme is useful for detection of the distinct subset of striatal cells or for tracing their axonal projection fibers in the basal ganglia.
Prefrontal cortical modulation of caudate nucleus dopamine release was investigated in the rhesus monkey using the in vivo microdialysis technique. Reliable and stable basal caudate nucleus dopamine levels were quickly attained within hours following insertion of the dialysis probes. High-potassium (60 mM) or tetrodotoxin (10 microM) infusions significantly altered caudate nucleus dopamine levels in the dialysate indicating that measured dopamine levels reflected impulse-dependent release from the presynaptic pool. Pharmacological augmentation of monoaminergic transmission in the sulcus principalis region of the prefrontal cortex resulted in significant alterations in caudate nucleus dopamine levels. Increase of monoaminergic activity by infusion of either D-amphetamine (100 microM) or cocaine hydrochloride (100 microM) resulted in a gradual and prolonged decrease in caudate nucleus dopamine levels. Similar decreases were noticed in caudate nucleus dopamine metabolite levels. The present results indicate that in non-human primates modulation of dorsolateral prefrontal cortical monoaminergic transmission results in alterations in dopamine levels in subcortical structures. This observation may have clinical implications for therapeutic management of certain neuropsychiatric disorders, particularly schizophrenia.
A cortical infarct of 2 mm diameter was obtained in the parietal cortex after a craniotomy, disruption of the dura mater and topical application of 3 M KCl. It has been shown previously that the presence of a small cortical infarct induces an increase in immediate early gene messenger RNA expression followed by an increase in neuropeptide and glutamic acid decarboxylase messenger RNA expression. Glutamate, acting at N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, is held responsible for these changes, since they are blocked by pretreatment with dizocilpine. In the present study, we have analysed the consequences of the dramatic changes in messenger RNA expression on the level of immediate early gene products c-fos and zif 268, and on that of neuropeptides by using immunohistochemistry. After just 1 h, an increase in c-fos- and zif 268-like immunoreactivity is observed in the entire cortical hemisphere homolateral to the infarct, and is no longer detected after 6 h. An increase in cholecystokinin octapeptide-, substance P-, neuropeptide Y- and somatostatin-like immunoreactivity is observed in the entire cortical hemisphere homolateral to the infarct after three days, and is no longer detected after 30 days. To investigate if these dramatic increases in neuropeptide immunoreactivities may have functional consequences, we studied the level of cholecystokinin receptors by autoradiographic binding using [125I]cholecystokinin-8S and in situ hybridization for the detection of cholecystokinin-b receptor messenger RNA. A decrease in cholecystokinin binding sites and cholecystokinin-b receptor messenger RNA is observed in the entire cortical hemisphere homolateral to the infarct after three days, and is no longer detected after nine days. This study shows that a topical stimulation has diffuse effects, reaching regions far from the site of the lesion, and some of them are still strongly present after nine days. The increase in neuropeptide messenger RNAs is followed by an increase in the protein products of these genes, which may modify the neurotransmission. As a corollary to this, a decrease in cholecystokinin binding sites occurs. This may have further consequences on signal transduction pathways. This decrease in cholecystokinin binding sites is associated with a decrease in the cholecystokinin-b receptor messenger RNA, and this is the first example of a decrease in messenger RNA levels in this experimental model.
Somatostatin-, neuropeptide Y-, neurokinin B- and cholecystokinin-containing neurons were investigated in the rat hippocampus in two chronic models of temporal lobe epilepsy, i.e. 30 days after rapid kindling or electrically induced status epilepticus (post-status epilepticus). After rapid kindling, somatostatin immunoreactivity was strongly increased in interneurons and in the outer and middle molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. In four of six post-status epilepticus rats (status epilepticus I rats), somatostatin immunoreactivity was slightly increased in the dorsal but decreased in the ventral dentate gyrus and molecular layer. Somatostatin immunoreactivity decreased in neurons of the dorsal hilus in the two other post-status epilepticus rats investigated, while a complete loss was found in the respective ventral extension (status epilepticus-II rats). These changes were associated with a different extent of neurodegeneration as assessed by Nissl staining. Similarly, neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity was enhanced in neurons of the hilus and in the middle and outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus in the dorsal hippocampus of rapidly kindled and status epilepticus-I rats. Neuropeptide Y and neurokinin B immunoreactivity was enhanced in the mossy fibers of all post-status epilepticus rats, but not in the rapidly kindled rats. In status epilepticus-II rats, neuropeptide Y-and neurokinin B-positive fibers were also detected in the infrapyramidal region of the stratum oriens of CA3 and in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus respectively, labeling presumably sprouted mossy fibers. Increased staining of neuropeptide Y and neurokinin B was found in the alveus after rapid kindling. Cholecystokinin immunoreactivity was markedly increased in the cerebral cortex, Ammon's horn and the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus in the ventral hippocampus of rapidly kindled and post-status epilepticus rats. The lasting changes in the immunoreactive pattern of various peptides in the hippocampus may reflect functional modifications in the corresponding peptide-containing neurons. These changes may be involved in chronic epileptogenesis, which evolves in response to limbic seizures.
To investigate substrates of recognition memory, the cellular expression of Fos protein in rat brain has been studied after groups of rats were either shown sets of novel or highly familiar objects, or were exposed to the same pattern of illumination without objects being shown. Counts of stained nuclei were made in eight brain regions, where information about novel or familiar visual stimuli is likely to be processed or stored. The counts were relatively high in occipital visual association cortex and area TE of temporal cortex, intermediate in perirhinal cortex, entorhinal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex and the diagonal band of Broca, and low in the hippocampal formation and mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus. The number of Fos-stained cells was significantly higher for the rats shown novel objects than for those shown familiar objects in perirhinal cortex, area TE, occipital cortex and anterior cingulate cortex. Arguments are advanced that these differences in counts indicate areas involved in the processing and/or storage of information about the novelty or familiarity of visual stimuli, information important to recognition memory.
Several genes encoding subunits of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors have been cloned and regulatory elements involved in the transcription of the alpha 2 and alpha 7-subunit genes have been described. Yet, the detailed mechanisms governing the neuron-specific transcription and the spatio-temporal expression pattern of these genes remain largely uninvestigated. The beta 2-subunit is the most widely expressed neuronal nicotinic receptor subunit in the nervous system. We have studied the structural and regulatory properties of the 5' sequence of this gene. A fragment of 1163 bp of upstream sequence is sufficient to drive the cell-specific transcription of a reporter gene in both transient transfection assays and in transgenic mice. Deletion analysis and site-directed mutagenesis of this promoter reveal two negative elements and one positive element. The positively-acting sequence includes one functional E-box. One of the repressor elements is located in the transcribed region and is the NRSE/RE1 sequence already described in promoters of neuronal genes. In this paper, we describe the neuron-specific promoter of the gene encoding the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor beta 2-subunit.
There is increasing evidence that nitric oxide is an important molecular messenger involved in a wide variety of biological processes including the regulation of the cerebral circulation. For instance, it has been implicated in the vascular response to nucleus basalis magnocellularis stimulation, a structure which is widely recognized as the predominant source of cholinergic fibres projecting to the neocortex. The present investigation was carried out to determine if muscarinic receptors are present on cortical neurons expressing neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nitric oxide-producing enzyme). To this aim, double labelling of both neuronal nitric oxide synthase/vessels and neuronal nitric oxide synthase/muscarinic receptors was performed on free-floating cryosections obtained from rat brain. The observations were made by confocal laser scanning microscopy. The double labelling of neuronal nitric oxide synthase with the arterioles demonstrated the presence of nitroxidergic fibres in the wall of intraparenchymal vessels. A rich network of nitroxidergic fibres independent of the vessels was also seen in the parenchyma. Since the maximal surface of a square of tissue without any nitroxidergic fibres corresponded to 1400 +/- 105 microns2, the distance separating any cortical point from its closest neuronal nitric oxide synthase-positive fibre was never higher than 25 microns (half diagonal of square). According to models of the diffusional spread of nitric oxide, it is likely that nitric oxide can reach the whole cortical volume. Our results on the regional study of neuronal nitric oxide synthase/muscarinic receptors showed a high density of neuronal nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons principally in the frontal and perirhinal cortices and a low density in the occipital cortex. These data fit well with the known pattern of cortical projections from the nucleus basalis magnocellularis as revealed by anterogradely transported markers. The double labelling showed that about 10% of neuronal nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons were co-localized with muscarinic receptors in the frontoparietal cortex. In agreement with previous papers, the vascular innervation by nitroxidergic neuronal processes was often found to lie near the branching points of arterioles. Such localization allows neuronal nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons an extensive control of the vascular tree without requiring a large number of neuronal commands. Therefore, despite the low level of neuronal nitric oxide synthase/muscarinic receptor co-localization, this neuronal subpopulation could represent a possible relay implicated in the vascular effects of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis.
beta-A activin is a member of the transforming growth factor-beta family and has been implicated in nerve cell survival and inhibition of differentiation in vitro [Hashimoto M. et al. (1990) Biochem. biophys. Res. Commun. 173, 193-200; Schubert D. et al. (1990) Nature 344, 868-870]. In our studies to identify genomic mechanisms involved in long-term neuronal responses to synaptic activity, we have determined that beta-A activin messenger RNA is rapidly and transiently induced in neurons of the adult rat brain by excitatory synaptic input. Synaptic mechanisms involved in beta-A activin messenger RNA induction were examined in adult hippocampus and cortex using the long-term potentiation paradigm. beta-A activin messenger RNA is induced in granule cell neurons of the hippocampus by high-frequency synaptic stimuli that produce long-term potentiation, and this induction is blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate type glutamate receptor antagonist, dizocilpine. beta-A activin messenger RNA is expressed at basal levels in neurons of layers II/III and V/VI, and this expression rapidly decreases following sensory deafferentation of the visual cortex or systemic administration of dizocilpine, suggesting that beta-A activin expression is regulated by physiological excitatory synaptic activity. In developing brain, beta-A activin is expressed in the neocortex and neostriatum beginning at embryonic day 17. beta-A activin expression in late fetal cortex is enriched in postmitotic neurons at the lower boundary of the dense cortical plate. As development progresses, beta-A activin expression continues to be enriched in neurons at the boundary between the hypercellular cortical plate and the subjacent, more mature deep layers. This inside-out progression of beta-A activin expression follows the well-characterized radial gradient of cortical development. Expression of beta-A activin messenger RNA is rapidly regulated in early postnatal cortex and striatum by GABA and glutamate antagonists, suggesting that beta-A activin is also regulated as a rapid response gene in developing brain, and that the high basal levels reflect a steady-state response to developmental signals. Since activin receptors are enriched in neurons of developing and adult brain [Cameron V. A. et al. (1994) Endocrinology 134, 799-808; Roberts V. J. and Barth S. L. (1994) Endocrinology 134, 914-922], our observations suggest a role for activin signaling in neuronal responses to synaptic and developmental activity. In this study, we analyse the induction of expression of beta-A activin, a member of the transforming growth factor-beta family of secreted peptides, in response to synaptic activity and in the developing brain. The elevated and specific expression of beta-A activin during fetal and early postnatal neocortical development and its later regulation by excitatory activity postnatally and in the adult suggests that the activin signaling pathway functions at multiple developmental stages in the neuroplastic response.
Neurotrophins have multiple functions for the development of the nervous system. They can promote survival and differentiation of select neuronal populations, but have also been shown to play instructive roles in the determination of the transmitter phenotype of neurons. We have investigated the influence of neurotrophins on the expression of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase (NADPH-d), a histochemical marker for nitric oxide synthase, in spinal cord cultures established from 16-day-old rat embryos. At this embryonic age we found NADPH-d reactivity becoming apparent in the spinal cord and predominantly expressed in preganglionic autonomic nuclei. Numbers of NADPH-d-positive neurons in spinal cord cultures were very low 24 h after plating. They did not change significantly until day 4 in vitro. However, treatment with the neurotrophins BDNF, NT-3 or NT-4 significantly increased their numbers. The effect became apparent after just 24 h, and was significant with concentrations as low as 1 ng/ml. Treatment with BDNF, NT-3 and NT-4 also augmented numbers of NADPH-d-positive neurons when initiated after three or five days in culture, and became consistently apparent within 24 h. This suggests that the neurotrophin-mediated increase in NADPH-d-positive neurons is unlikely to be due to promotion of neuron survival. NGF and two members of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily, which have pronounced trophic effects on select neuron populations in vitro, TGF-beta 1 and GDNF, were not effective. Combined application of NT-4 and NT-3 had no additive effect. Our data therefore suggest that neurotrophins are involved in the developmental regulation of NADPH-d activity in neuron populations of the spinal cord. Neuron populations affected may include preganglionic autonomic neurons. NADPH-d activity may be induced in neurons expressing the enzyme constitutively, yet at undetectable levels, or may be induced de novo.
Epileptic seizures in the mature nervous system are associated with axonal sprouting of the hippocampal dentate granule cells and pathological synapse formation. The molecular basis of this morphological rearrangement is obscure. Since epileptic seizures induce the transcriptional activation of genes encoding diverse neurotrophic and growth factors in the dentate granule cells and their targets, morphoregulatory effects of these proteins may contribute to this morphological rearrangement. To determine whether neurotrophins or growth factors exert morphoregulatory effects on dentate gyrus neurons, quite homogeneous preparations of these neurons from postnatal rats were established in primary culture at low density in defined media. Dendrites were distinguished from axons by phase contrast appearance together with microtubule-associated protein-2 immunocytochemistry. Multiple factors enhanced branching of axons but not dendrites of these neurons. The rank order of effectiveness was: basic fibroblast growth factor &gt; brain-derived growth factor &gt; neurotrophin-4 &gt; neurotrophin-3; nerve growth factor was ineffective. No additives of synergistic effects were detected. These results are consistent with the idea that activity-driven expression of these genes contributes to the axonal sprouting and pathological synapse formation evident in diverse forms of epilepsy.
The effect of the apolipoprotein E genotype on the development of late onset Alzheimer's disease is still debated. Neuropathological studies of Alzheimer's disease have found a great extent of amyloid deposition in cortex and blood vessel walls in association with the apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 genotype [Rebeck G. W. et al. (1993) Neuron 11, 575-580; Schmechel et al. (1993) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 90, 9649-9653]. In contrast, the relationship of apolipoprotein E genotype to neurofibrillary pathology in Alzheimer's disease has been less clear. In this study we present evidence on the influence of the apolipoprotein E genotype on Alzheimer's disease related pathology in a series of 76 autopsy cases that had pathology that fulfilled the CERAD criteria for Alzheimer's disease. We found that the presence of the apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 allele is correlated with increased amounts of both amyloid and neuritic pathology in the neocortex as determined using an image analysis system. Comparison of plaque and tangle densities with the allele doses of epsilon 2 and epsilon 4 revealed a striking parallelism, suggesting that the alleles exert their effects very early in the pathological process before deposition of plaques and tangles. Although the apolipoprotein E epsilon 2 allele had a protective effect against both amyloid deposition and neurofibrillary tangle formation, in the presence of the epsilon 4 allele this protective effect against neuritic pathology was less marked than against amyloid deposition. This differential effect on amyloid deposition and the accumulation of neuritic pathology suggests that different molecular mechanisms are involved in the effect of apolipoprotein E on amyloid deposition and on tau phosphorylation.
Intracellular recordings were obtained from a class of neuron defined electrophysiologically as burst firing interneurons in layers V and VI in slices of adult rat somatomotor cortex. Four of these cells were recovered histologically. These four cells had resting membrane potentials between -68 and -80 mV, a mean input resistance of 77 +/- 16.2 M omega (measured from the voltage deflection produced by a 100 ms, 0.5 nA hyperpolarizing pulse delivered from a membrane potential of -80 mV) and responded to injections of depolarizing current from membrane potentials negative of -70 to -75 mV with an initial burst of action potentials followed by a complex afterhyperpolarization. In response to injection of larger (0.5-1.5 nA) hyperpolarizing current pulses from membrane potentials between -60 and -70 mV, 15 of 20 burst firing cells (three of four recovered histologically) that were tested displayed delayed inward rectification, and in all 20 cells of this type, responses to large negative current pulses were followed by a rebound depolarization that could initiate action potentials. Filling of four of these cells with biocytin and subsequent histological processing revealed that they were bitufted with sparsely to medium spiny dendrites and extensive local axon ramifications. These neurons are similar to low threshold spiking cells [Kawaguchi (1993) J. Neurophysiol. 69, 416-431]. Ultrastructural examination of the axons of three cells revealed that of 53 labelled terminals studied, the majority formed synaptic contacts with dendritic shafts. Filling neurons with biocytin during paired intracellular recordings resulted in three well labelled interneurons, each of which was postsynaptic to a simultaneously recorded pyramidal neuron. In these pairs both cells were identified, but the presynaptic axon was poorly labelled in one. In one of the two pairs in which the pre- and postsynaptic neurons were fully recovered, light microscopic assessment indicated that the axon of the presynaptic pyramid formed 12 close appositions with dendrites of the postsynaptic interneuron. Six of these appositions were examined at the electron microscopic level and were identified as possible synaptic contacts. In the other pair three of six close appositions observed at the light level were verified as possible synaptic connections at the ultrastructural level. These correlated electrophysiological and anatomical studies provide the first evidence for connections from pyramid to burst firing interneurons in the neocortex and indicate that these connections can be mediated by multiple synaptic contacts. The accompanying paper describes the functional properties of these connections.
In slices of adult rat somatomotor cortex, paired intracellular recordings determined the properties of a novel class of excitatory connection, that of presynaptic pyramidal axon collaterals onto burst firing, spiny inhibitory interneurons. Single axon excitatory postsynaptic potentials were brief in time course and displayed conventional voltage relations, increasing in amplitude with membrane hyperpolarization with no change in time course. Excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude distributions were not skewed. Paired pulse facilitation was profound at interspike intervals &lt; 50 ms, but not altered by raising extracellular [Ca2+] from 2.5 to 5 mM, despite an apparent increase in release probability. Raising presynaptic firing frequency did however produce an increase in excitatory postsynaptic potentials elicited by first spikes that was associated with a decline in excitatory postsynaptic potentials elicited by second and third spikes in brief trains of presynaptic spikes. That this pattern of synaptic activity may result from low probabilities of transmitter release is discussed. It is proposed that while raising Ca2+ and increasing presynaptic firing both increase release probability, repetitive presynaptic firing raises probability more effectively than does raising extracellular [Ca2+]. However, concomitant exhaustion of readily releasable transmitter at higher firing rates may partially obscure this effect. It is concluded that the major differences in the firing rate- and firing pattern-dependent properties of pyramid-pyramid and pyramid-interneuron connections are due to the typically lower release probability at synapses onto interneurons. The accompanying paper describes the morphology of these connections.
During the past two decades several revisions of the concepts underlying interneuronal communication in the central nervous system have been advanced. We propose here to classify communicational phenomena between cells of the central neural tissue under two general frames: &quot;wiring&quot; and &quot;volume&quot; transmission. &quot;Wiring&quot; transmission is defined as intercellular communication occurring through a well-defined connecting structure. Thus, wiring transmission is characterized by the presence of physically identifiable communication channels within the neuronal and/or glial cell network. It includes synaptic transmission but also other types of intercellular communication through a connecting structure (e.g., gap junctions). &quot;Volume&quot; transmission is characterized by signal diffusion in a three-dimensional fashion within the brain extracellular fluid. Thus, multiple, structurally often not well characterized extracellular pathways connect intercommunicating cells. Volume transmission includes short- (but larger than synaptic cleft, i.e. about 20 nm) and long-distance diffusion of signals through the extracellular and cerebrospinal fluid. It must be underlined that the definitions of wiring and volume transmission focus on the modality of transmission and are neutral with respect to the source and target of the transmission, as well as type of informational substance transmitted. Therefore, any cell present in the neural tissue (neurons, astroglia, microglia, ependyma, tanycytes, etc.) can be a source or a target of wiring and volume transmission. In this paper we discuss the basic definitions and some distinctive characteristics of the two types of transmission. In addition, we review the evidence for different types of intercellular communication besides synaptic transmission in the central nervous system during phylogeny, and in vertebrates in physiological and pathological conditions.
Temporal lobe epilepsy is the most common form of epilepsy. Decreased GABA-ergic inhibition has been suggested as one cause of hyperexcitability. On the other hand, increased expression of glutamic acid decarboxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme of GABA synthesis, has been found in interneurons of the hippocampus in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and in rats after kainic acid-induced limbic seizures, indicating increased GABA-ergic transmission. Here we report differential expression of two genes encoding different molecular forms of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), GAD65 and GAD67, after kainic acid-induced seizures in the rat. There is a rapid but transient elevation of GAD67 mRNA levels in granule cells 6-24 h after kainic acid injection, followed by enhanced GAD immunoreactivity in the terminal field of mossy fibers. In interneurons in the hilus of the dentate gyrus, a sustained and progressing increase in the expression of both GAD65 and GAD67 messenger RNA occurs. These observations indicate that consitutively glutamatergic mossy fibers may be capable of synthetizing and utilizing the inhibitory transmitter GABA in sustained limbic seizures. Enhanced expression of glutamic acid decarboxylases within interneurons and in granule cells/mossy fibers suggest augmented GABA-ergic neurotransmission supporting selfprotective, anticonvulsive mechanisms in limbic epilepsy.
The diffusible second messenger, nitric oxide, is synthesised in central neurons in response to activation of glutamate receptors or other stimuli that increase cytosolic Ca2+ concentrations. Among the many roles suggested for nitric oxide in the central nervous system is that of mediating synaptic plasticity. For example, long-term potentiation in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus was reported to be blocked by inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase and exogenous nitric oxide has been claimed to induce an enduring enhancement of synaptic strength under certain conditions. These findings, however, are controversial and even when a participation of nitric oxide is evident, the transduction mechanism is unclear. A well-known action of nitric oxide is to stimulate the soluble form of guanylyl cyclase, thereby evoking an accumulation of cyclic GMP in target cells but several other mechanisms have been proposed, including stimulation of ADP ribosyltransferase or cyclooxygenase, and nitrosylation of protein thiol residues. The identification of a selective inhibitor of soluble guanylyl cyclase, the oxadiazoloquinoxaline derivative, ODQ, provides, for the first time, the means to investigate the importance of the cyclic GMP pathway in nitric oxide signal transduction. We find that ODQ and the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, nitroarginine, reduce hippocampal long-term potentiation in an equal and mutually exclusive manner, suggesting that the actions of nitric oxide in this phenomenon are entirely mediated through cyclic GMP. The experiments also show that there is a component of long-term potentiation that involves neither nitric oxide nor cyclic GMP.
Alzheimer's disease is histopathologically characterized by neurofibrillary tangles, formed by the abnormally high phosphorylated tau protein, and senile plaques which largely consist of the beta/A4-amyloid peptide. Metabolism of the amyloid precursor protein and its processing into beta/A4-amyloid is regulated by protein phosphorylation. Thus, an imbalance between protein phosphorylation and dephosphorylation might be crucial for the development of the molecular hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. We report here that chronic infusion into rat brain ventricles of okadaic acid, a specific inhibitor of the serine/threonine protein phosphatases 1 and 2A, results in a severe memory impairment, accompanied by a paired helical filament-like phosphorylation of tau protein and the formation of beta/A4-amyloid containing plaque-like structures in gray and white matter areas.

The powerful combination of molecular biology and electrophysiology has allowed extraordinary progress in the field of ion channel structure-function. In fact, only 10 years have passed since the first amino acid sequence of a voltage-dependent ion channel, the Na+ channel, was deduced [1], and already the structural domains involved in ion channel permeation, block and gating have been identified in many channel types. Despite this progress, in most cases the correlation between specific domains and ion channel function is still speculative at present, due to the absence of direct structural information [2]. In this review we will describe recent progress in the field of structure-function of one class of K+ channels, the inward rectifiers (IRKs). In particular, we will review the sequences of structure-function experiments which have led to the discovery of a novel regulation of IRKs by cytoplasmic organic polycationic substances like polyamines (PAs). This discovery represents a paradigm for how structure-function information has preceded and made possible the identification of physiological mechanisms of ion channel regulation. Owing to the important role played by IRKs in the regulation of resting membrane potential, a major determinant of cellular transport and volume [3], and to the established link between PAs and cell growth and division, the direct regulation of IRKs by PAs assumes a critical importance for the pharmacological control of cell growth and neoplastic transformation.
Chlamydomonas gametes of opposite mating types interact through flagellar adhesion molecules called agglutinins leading to a signal transduction cascade that induces cell wall loss and activation of mating structures along with other cellular responses that ultimately result in zygote formation. To identify molecules involved in these complex cellular events, we have employed subtractive and differential hybridization with cDNA from mt+ gametes activated for fertilization and non-signaling, vegetative (non-gametic) cells. We identified 55 cDNA clones whose transcripts were regulated in activated gametes. Here we report the molecular cloning and characterization of the complementary DNA (cDNA) for one clone whose transcripts in activated gametes were several-fold higher than in normal gametes. Regulation of the transcript was not related simply to protein synthesis because it was not increased in cells synthesizing new cell wall proteins. The cDNA contained a single open reading frame (ORF) of 815 amino acids encoding a polypeptide of calculated relative mass of 87 kDa. Database search analysis and sequence alignment indicated that the deduced amino acid sequence exhibited 42% identity and 62% similarity to a class of prokaryotic methyl transferases (5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homocysteine methyl transferase; EC 2.1.1.14) known to be involved in the terminal step of de novo biosynthesis of methionine. This enzyme catalyzes transfer of a methyl group from 5-methyltetrahydrofolate to homocysteine resulting in methionine formation. Affinity-purified polyclonal antibodies raised against a bacterially produced GST-fusion protein identified a 85 kDa soluble protein in Chlamydomonas gametes. Southern blot hybridization indicated that the enzyme is encoded by a single-copy gene. The evidence presented in this paper raises the possibility that, in addition to its participation in de novo biosynthesis and regeneration of methionine, Chlamydomonas methionine synthase may play a role in adhesion-induced events during fertilization.

It seems that psychopharmacology may be well on its way toward the goal of developing new anxiolytic drug(s) that are fast acting and free from the unwanted effects associated with the traditional benzodiazepines. Several specific candidates exist, based upon rational targeting of neurotransmitter receptors shown to be linked to the neurobiology of anxiety. Thus, partial agonists at the benzodiazepine receptor, such as alpidem, abecarnil, and bretazenil, have highly promising preclinical profiles, and some useful preliminary results in clinical testing of anxiety disorder subjects. Neurosteroids are another interesting set of pharmacologic agents that target the benzodiazepine receptor, have a preclinical anxiolytic profile, and now need to be tested in clinical populations. Targeting of various serotonin (5HT) receptor subtypes is a very active area of current research for novel anxiolytic agents. 5HT3 antagonists may have an anxiolytic profile, but clinical results are still preliminary and need more validation. Of considerable interest is the idea of developing new drugs that act at 5HT1A, 5HT2A, or 5HT2C receptors. It has even been proposed that simultaneous targeting of both 5HT2A and 5HT1A receptors could result in robust anxiolytic agents that will have more immediate onset of action than currently available 5HT1A receptor acting drugs. Neuropeptide receptor agonists and antagonists with anxiolytic properties may represent one of the most striking new classes of potential anxiolytic drugs, but this is an emerging field that still requires considerably more systematic clinical testing. Nevertheless, preclinical studies as well as early clinical studies suggest that at least three neuropeptide receptors are provocative targets for novel anxiolytic agents: namely antagonists for CCK-B receptors, antagonists for CRF receptors, and agonists for neuropeptide Y receptors. Rational development of new pharmacologic agents based upon targeting receptors for those neurotransmitters that regulate the neurobiology of anxiety promises to bring forth a number of exciting therapeutic agents for the treatment of anxiety disorders in the future.
The concepts and discoveries of modern neuroscience now challenge many of the presumptions that influence diagnostic decisions within neurology, psychiatry, and clinical neuropsychology. Many of these presumptions are derived from archaic bivariate models such as the mind-body argument, organic-functional dichotomy, and single lesion-single behaviour causality. Thirteen basic principles which may be useful for inferring more reliable and accurate relationships between microstructural function an clinical manifestations are developed.
Eighteen males performed two vigilance tasks with static and dynamic stimuli under the influence of oxazepam (20 and 40 mg) in a placebo-controlled, double blind, crossover design. Oxazepam dose-dependently impaired overall level of performance and aggravated the decrement with time in measures of accuracy and sensitivity relative to placebo. The drug reduced the amplitudes of the P1, N1, P2N2, and P3 (dose-dependently) waves of event-related potentials (ERPs). Oxazepam aggravated the linear decline with time of the P3 amplitude only. Oxazepam impaired accuracy was related to deterioration of central processing involved in stimulus discrimination (P2N2). Impairment of response-related performance measures (RT and RI) was associated with processing manifest in the P1, N1, and P3 waves. Oxazepam effects on the amplitudes of N1 and P3 correlated with drug effects on power in alpha 1 (8-10 Hz). Drug effects on overall performance and alpha were also related; the drug effect on response speed correlated only with the drug effect on beta 1 (12.5-21 Hz). Effects of time-on-task on performance and EEG were unrelated, but oxazepam induced performance declines with time may have been caused by declines in resource allocation, as manifest in the amplitude of P3. Time effects on EEG power bands and ERP amplitudes were not significantly related to the time course of oxazepam activity. A curious dissociation emerged: both oxazepam and time-on-task impaired performance, but the drug induced a decrease of theta and alpha 1 power, whereas time-on-task increased power. Various processes play a role in performance decrements with time, and various aspects of processing may be involved in signal-detection measures which makes terms such as sensitivity quite meaningless. So-called computational processing was indistinguishable from energetic processes, which questions the validity of the distinction between these two domains. Explanations of EEG activity in terms of a unidimensional theory of arousal are untenable.
The in vivo potency of euphorigenic doses of intravenous cocaine for displacing [123I]beta-CIT ([123I]2 beta-carbomethoxy-3 beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane) binding to striatal dopamine transporters (DAT) was assessed in human cocaine addicts using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Cocaine-dependent subjects (n = 6) were injected with [123I]beta-CIT and imaged 24 h later under equilibrium conditions. Sequential cocaine infusions (0.28 +/- 0.03 and 0.56 +/- 0.07 mg/kg) produced significant (P &lt; 0.0005) reductions in the specific to non-specific equilibrium partition coefficient, V3&quot; (6 +/- 6 and 17 +/- 3%), a measure proportional to DAT binding potential. Regression analysis of the logit transformed data enabled reliable determination of the Hill coefficient (0.51) and 50% displacement (ED50) dose of cocaine (2.8 mg/kg). These preliminary data suggest that cocaine produces behavioral effects in humans at measurable levels of DAT occupancy.
Two hundred and twenty-five patients with multiple sclerosis and bladder dysfunction were evaluated. 72% had urinary incontinence, 46% dysuria and 24% urinary retention. Detrusor hyperreflexia was the most common finding on cystometry (70%) and 9% of patients had areflexia. Coaxial needle electromyography was performed on all patients and 82% had detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia. Cortical evoked potentials following stimulation of the pudendal nerve were delayed in 72% and sacral evoked latency in 16% especially in patients with incontinence secondary to overactive bladder (25%), suggesting a conus medullaris lesion in these cases. Urologic complications were noted in 40%, with benign lesions in 24% (diverticula, urinary infections) and serious lesions in 16% (hydronephrosis, pyelonephritis, renal reflux). The most common treatment was anticholinergic drugs (efficacy in 92%), alphablockers agents (efficacy in 60%) and autocatheterism in 28%.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) promotes the survival of motor neurons in vitro and in vivo. A recent report showed that disruption of the CNTF gene in mice caused motor neuron degeneration. We have found a null mutation in the human CNTF gene. The mutated allele shows a G to A transition producing a new splice acceptor site and the resulting mRNA species codes for an aberrant protein. Analysis of tissue samples demonstrated that the mutated allele expressed only the mutated mRNA species. In 391 Japanese people tested, 61.9% were normal homozygotes, 35.8% heterozygotes and 2.3% mutant homozygotes. The distribution of the three genotypes is similar in healthy and neurological disease subjects including ALS patients. Our findings indicate that CNTF deficiency is not causally related to ALS.
Dystrophin is associated with several novel sarcolemmal proteins via the cysteine-rich/C-terminal domains. The dystrophin-associated proteins are classified into three groups: (1) alpha- and beta-dystroglycan, (2) adhalin, 35DAG and A3b, and (3) members of the syntrophin family. Dystrophin interacts with F-actin via the N-terminal domain. Alpha-dystroglycan binds laminin-2, a major component of the basal lamina. These findings indicate that the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC) links the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton with the basal lamina, thus providing mechanical stability to the sarcolemmal. The DGC may also play a role in signal transduction. We have reported previously the deficiency of adhalin in skeletal muscle of Arab patients afflicted with severe childhood autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy (SCARMD). SCARMD is now known to affect other races including Europeans and Japanese. Although the phenotype of this disease can mimic Duchenne muscular dystrophy in severe cases, it is sometimes quite mild. SCARMD is genetically heterogeneous. Recently, adhalin gene mutations have been demonstrated in European, Arab and Japanese families with SCARMD. Another locus is on chromosome 13q, however, the mutated gene remains elusive. In the advanced stages of SCARMD, the expression of laminin is disturbed, suggesting that adhalin deficiency may cause the dysfunction of the DGC as a laminin receptor, which may eventually lead to muscle cell death.

Previous research into non-epileptic attack disorder (NEAD) has focused on the individual. We report a teenager with non-epileptic seizures which highlights the importance of the family in the development and maintenance of such attacks. The authors propose that in children and adolescents the focus of therapeutic intervention should be the individual within the context of the family.


The effects of the benzodiazepine receptor partial inverse agonist beta-carboline FG 7142 on cortical ACh efflux were determined using in vivo microdialysis in freely-moving rats. Additionally, a within-subjects, repeated-dialysis experimental design (four microdialysis sessions; removable dialysis probe) was evaluated as a method for measuring changes in basal and FG 7142-stimulated ACh efflux in the frontoparietal cortex. FG 7142 (4.0, 8.0, and 16.0 mg/kg) produced a 150-470% increase in cortical ACh efflux, with a dose-dependent effect on the duration of the increase in efflux. Basal cortical ACh efflux was lower in session 4 than in session 1. However, the ability of FG 7142 to stimulate efflux was unchanged by repeated dialysis testing. The ability of tetrodotoxin (1.0 microM) to suppress both basal and FG 7142-stimulated ACh efflux was also unaffected by repeated dialysis testing. These results demonstrate that systemically administered benzodiazepine receptor inverse agonists stimulate cortical ACh efflux, and that repeated-measures experimental designs can be valid for determining certain changes in cortical ACh efflux with in vivo microdialysis.

Recent hypothesis suggesting a role for environmental toxins in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders has stimulated interest in research on xenobiotic metabolizing capability of the brain. In addition to possible irreversible loss of neurons through bioactivation in situ in the nervous tissue, the metabolism of psychoactive drugs in the target tissue can lead to local pharmacological modulation at the site of action. The major drug metabolizing enzymes, cytochromes P-450 (P450) and flavin-containing monooxygenase (FMO) have been detected in rodent brain and human brain tissue obtained at autopsy. The brain microsomal and mitochondrial P450 systems are capable of metabolizing a variety of xenobiotics, while the brain FMO efficiently metabolizes a variety of psychoactive drugs to their respective N-oxides. Immunocytochemical studies have revealed the regional heterogeneity in the distribution of multiple forms of P450 in the brain and the co-localization of P450 and FMO predominantly in the neuronal cells. Although the brain P450 and FMO share many common features with similar enzymes present in other tissues such as liver and lung, there are some distinctive differences. It is evident from the studies carried out so far that the brain can metabolize a variety of lipophilic xenobiotics that enter by way of the blood stream.
Nuclear hormone receptors comprise a superfamily of over 40 transcription factors. About half of them are classical receptors for lipophilic ligands such as steroids and vitamins. Almost all of these true receptors are present in the brain, where they transduce chemical signals from endocrine organs or signals of nutritional origin into cellular responses. The other members resemble the classical receptors in structure, but have no known ligands, and are hence called 'orphan receptors'. The issue of whether ligands for nuclear orphan receptors exist is controversial. Evidence is emerging that orphan receptors might be activated by signal transduction pathways or might be constitutive enhancers or repressors that interact with the classical receptors. Thus, nuclear orphan receptors are placed in strategic positions in the regulation of gene expression in the nervous system.
Pharmacologists are often required to analyse nonlinear experimental effects by fitting the data to defined theoretical models. This may require a specialized computer program capable of performing nonlinear regression analysis, which can prove costly given the variety of pharmacological research. Here, Wayne Bowen and Jeff Jerman describe a generic method of performing nonlinear regression using spreadsheet applications, and demonstrate how this approach can be used to create automated systems of data analysis.
Exocytosis from nerve terminals is triggered by depolarization-evoked Ca2+ entry, which also activates calmodulin and stimulates protein phosphorylation. Ba2+ is believed to replace Ca2+ in triggering exocytosis without activation of calmodulin and can therefore be used to unravel aspects of presynaptic function. We have analysed the cellular actions of Ba2+ in relation to its effect on transmitter release from isolated nerve terminals. Barium evoked specific release of amino acid transmitters, catecholamines and neuropeptides (EC50 0.2-0.5 mM), similar to K-/Ca(2+)-evoked release both in extent and kinetics. Ba(2+)-and Ca(2+)-evoked release were not additive. In contrast to Ca2+, Ba2+ triggered release which was insensitive to trifluoperizine and hardly stimulated protein phosphorylation. These observations are in accordance with the ability of Ba2+ to replace Ca2+ in exocytosis without activating calmodulin. Nevertheless, calmodulin appears to be essential for regular (Ca(2+)-triggered) exocytosis, given its sensitivity to trifluoperizine. Both Ba(2+)-and Ca(2+)-evoked release were blocked by okadaic acid. Furthermore, anti-calcineurin antibodies decreased Ba(2+)-evoked release. In conclusion, Ba2+ replaces Ca2+/calmodulin in the release of the same transmitter pool. Calmodulin-dependent phosphorylation appears not to be essential for transmitter release. Instead, our data implicate both Ca(2+)-dependent and -independent dephosphorylation in the events prior to neurotransmitter exocytosis.
A cDNA encoding the gamma 3 subunit of the human GABAA receptor has been obtained by molecular cloning. Its deduced amino acid sequence shows a high level of sequence identity with the published mouse and rat sequences (96%). The ligand binding pharmacology of the benzodiazepine site formed by stably-expressed human alpha 5 beta 3 gamma 2S and alpha 5 beta 3 gamma 3 GABAA receptor subtypes have been compared for a number of ligands, Benzodiazepine site ligands were found to be either non-selective or gamma 2-selective, with the exception of CL218,872, which was found to be 10-fold selective for the alpha 5 beta 3 gamma 3-containing subtype Two benzodiazepine site ligands. Ro15-4513 and FG8205 were more efficacious at alpha 5 beta 3 gamma 3 receptors than alpha 5 beta 3 gamma 2 receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes, CL218,872, which is a partial agonist at alpha 1 containing receptors, had no intrinsic activity at either alpha 5 beta 3 gamma 2 or alpha 5 beta 3 gamma 3, alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 2S and alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 3 human GABAA receptors were also expressed in Xenopus oocytes and their benzodiazepine pharmacology investigated. Both the EC50 and efficacy of benzodiazepine site ligands were influenced by the type of gamma subunit coexpressed with alpha 1 and beta 2.
The mode of coupling between neurotransmitter receptors and G proteins was investigated by agonist-induced high-affinity GTPase activity in rat striatal membranes. There was a simple additive relationship among dopamine-, carbachol-, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-sensitive high-affinity GTPase activity in any combination, indicating that the respective receptors stimulated by these agonists (i.e., dopamine D2, pirenzepine-insensitive muscarinic, and GABAB receptors) interact independently with distinct pools of G proteins. Unexpectedly non-additivity was observed between dopamine- and norepinephrine-stimulation. This lack of additivity was apparently due to stimulation of the same dopamine D2 receptors by both dopamine and norepinephrine, since norepinephrine-stimulated high-affinity GTPase activity could be inhibited by dopaminergic but not adrenergic antagonists. The same non-additivity as seen in rat striatum was confirmed in the membranes prepared from cultured mouse fibroblast cells co-transfected with dopamine D2 and adenosine A2A receptors. The implication of the (non-)additivity between receptor-mediated high-affinity GTPase activity was discussed with a consideration of the possible underlying molecular mechanism.
[3H]1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) exhibits high affinity, specific binding to strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors. In extensively washed rat forebrain membranes, the specific binding of [3H]ACPC was optimal at 25 degrees C in the presence of 10 mM MgCl2. Comparable levels of specific [3H]ACPC binding were obtained using centrifugation and filtration for separation of bound from free radioligand. [3H]ACPC labels two sites with Kdl and Bmax1 values of 129 +/- 34 nM and 2.30 +/- 0.37 pmol/mg protein and Kd2 and Bmax2 values of 7.26 +/- 1.69 microM and 20.6 +/- 2.2 pmol/mg protein for the high and low affinity sites, respectively. The Kd of [3H]ACPC (66 nM) estimated under non-equilibrium conditions (koff = 8.91 +/- 0.78 x 10(-3) s-1; kon = 1.35 x 10(-4) nM-1 s-1) was similar to the value obtained for the high affinity site obtained by equilibrium binding. The Kd1 of[3H]ACPC is in good agreement with the previously reported Ki values of ACPC to inhibit the binding of other glycinergic ligands including [3H]glycine, [3H]5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid (5,7-DCKA) and [3H]L-689,560 ((+/-)-4-(trans)-2-carboxy-5,7-dichloro-4- phenylaminocarbonylamino-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline). Moreover, the potencies of a series of glycine site ligands, including glycine. ACPC, 1-aminocyclobutanecarboxylic acid (ACBC), 5,7-DCKA, 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7-CKA), R(+)-3-amino-1-hydroxy-2- pyrrolidine (HA-966) and D-serine, to inhibit [3H]ACPC binding were highly correlated with their potencies to inhibit [3H]glycine and [3H]5,7-DCKA binding (r2 = 0.98-0.51). These results demonstrate that [3H]ACPC is a useful tool for examining the neurochemical and pharmacological properties of strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors.
In this study, we examined the effects of a novel water-soluble, putative AMPA receptor antagonist, (-)(3S,4aR,6R,8aR)-6-[2-(1(2)H-tetrazole-5-yl)ethyl]-1,2,3, 4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a-decahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid monohydrate (LY326325), on glutamate-, N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-, and kainic acid (KA)-induced elevations of intracellular Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i) and 45Ca2+ uptake, as well as glutamate agonist-induced neurotoxicity in primary cultures of intact rat cortical and cerebellar granule neurons. In some experiments, the actions of LY326325 were tested in the presence of cyclothiazide, a compound that is known to block glutamate-induced desensitization of AMPA-preferring subtypes of glutamate receptors, thereby largely potentiating the functional effects of AMPA. LY326325 fully blocked the elevations of [Ca2+]i induced by NMDA and non-NMDA glutamate receptor agonists in both cortical and cerebellar granule neurons. The application of increasing concentrations of cyclothiazide was not able to reverse the LY326325-induced blockade of glutamate receptors in cortical neurons. In contrast, the same cyclothiazide treatment fully reversed the blockade produced by the noncompetitive AMPA/KA receptor antagonist 1-(4-aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-5H-2, 3-benzodiazepine HCl (GYKI 52466). In 45Ca2+ uptake studies. LY325325 inhibited the NMDA-, AMPA-, and KA-induced enhancement of 45Ca2+ uptake in a concentration-dependent fashion in both cortical and cerebellar granule cells. In analogy to the results obtained with [Ca2+]i recordings, cyclothiazide failed to counteract the LY326325-induced blockade of KA-stimulated 45Ca2+ uptake in cerebellar granule neurons, whereas the blockade induced by the noncompetitive AMPA/KA receptor blocking agent GYKI 52466 was fully reversed by cyclothiazide. Because a similar, although not identical pattern of actions was seen following the application of the competitive AMPA/KA receptor antagonist 6-nitro-7-sulphamoyl-benzo(f)quinoxaline-2-3-dione (NBQX), it is suggested that the inhibitory actions of LY326325 are similar to those produced by NBQX but clearly differ from those caused by the noncompetitive AMPA/KA receptor antagonist GYKI 52466. Finally, when the neuroprotective actions of LY326325 on glutamate agonist-induced neurotoxicity were examined in cerebellar granule neurons, we found that LY326325 almost completely blocked the neurotoxic actions of NMDA, AMPA, and KA, respectively, whereas it produced only a partial blockade of glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. Taken together, our current results suggest that although LY326325 blocked both nonNMDA and NMDA-induced Ca2+ responses, it still displayed a preferential affinity of nonNMDA receptors as compared to NMDA receptors. However, LY326325 appears to be a less selective AMPA/KA receptor antagonist than NBQX and GYKI52466, respectively.
Film autoradiography was used to demonstrate the transport and sites of accumulation of blood-borne radioiodinated interleukin-1 alpha (II-1 alpha) and other cytokines into the brain after intravenous administration. [125 I]Il-1 alpha, [125I]Il-1 beta, [125I]interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (II-1ra), and [125I]tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) labeled the choroid plexus and the capillary network 30 min after injection into the blood, suggesting that these areas may serve as sites of blood-to-brain transport. [125I]Il-1alpha, but not [125I]Il-1beta, [125I]Il-1ra, [125I]TNF alpha, or [125I]interleukin-2 (Il-2), was also found localized to the caudal region of the septal nuclei. Only unlabeled II-1 alpha was able to inhibit this accumulation. These findings provide further evidence for the passage of select cytokines across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and are the first to identify a target site within the central nervous system (CNS) for a transported cytokine.
We studied immunohistochemically the 22 kDa peroxisomal membrane protein (PMP 22). In the control brain, the immunopositive neurons for PMP 22 appeared 2-3 weeks earlier than those for peroxisomal enzymes. PMP 22-immunopositive glial cells appeared at 26-27 gestational weeks, increased with gestational age, and were rarely recognized after 1 year of age. In the patients with Zellweger syndrome, PMP 22-immunoreactivity was recognized in neurons, glias, liver and kidney cells.
The insular cortex has been implicated in the reinforcing properties of opiates as well as in the integration of responses to sensory-motor stimulation. Moreover, the delta-opioid receptor (DOR) and the endogenous opioid ligand, Met5-enkephalin (ENK) are known to be prominently distributed in insular limbic cortex. To examine the anatomical sites for opioid activation of DOR in rat insular cortex, we used immunoperoxidase for detection of an antiserum raised against a peptide sequence unique to the DOR alone, and in combination with immunogold-silver labeling for ENK. Light microscopy showed intense DOR-like immunoreactivity (DOR-LI) in pyramidal cells and interneurons in deep laminae, and in varicose processes in both superficial and deep layers of the insular cortex. Ultrastructural analysis of layers V and VI in insular cortex showed that the most prominent immunoperoxidase labeling for DOR was in dendrites. This labeling was associated with asymmetric excitatory-type junctions postsynaptic to unlabeled terminals. Dendritic DOR-LI was also distributed along selective portions of non-synaptic plasma membranes and subsurface organelles. In dually labeled sections, dendrites containing DOR-LI sometimes received synaptic input from ENK-labeled terminals or more infrequently colocalized with ENK. Other axon terminals were exclusively immunolabeled for DOR or more rarely contained both DOR and ENK immunoreactivity. Within labeled axon terminals, distinct segments of the plasma membrane and membranes of immediately adjacent synaptic vesicles showed the largest accumulation of the peroxidase reaction product for DOR. These results indicate that in rat insular cortex DOR is primarily heteroreceptive, but also serves an autoreceptive function on certain ENK-containing neurons. Our results also provide the first ultrastructural evidence that in rat insular cortex endogenous opioids interact through the DOR (1) to modulate the postsynaptic responses to other excitatory afferents and (2) to presynaptically regulate the release of other neurotransmitters. The modulatory actions on both ENK-containing and non-ENK-containing neurons may contribute significantly to the reinforcing properties of exogenous opiates acting on the DOR in limbic cortex.
We investigated whether the weak febrile response to pyrogens in newborns is due to a diminished activation of the putative pyrogen mediator, prostaglandin (PG)E2. Indwelling cannulas in the third ventricle of lambs (age, 5-31 days) and adult ewes were used to collect cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for radioimmunoassay of PGE2. Intravenous (i.v.) endotoxin caused a smaller increase in body temperature but a larger increase in CSF PGE2 in lambs compared to adults. PGE2 by intracarotid infusion raised body temperature in 5 of 7 trials in 3 lambs and in 4 of 4 trials in 1 adult. Endotoxin given intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) induced a rise in temperature and CSF PGE2 in the lamb but, in the adult, these responses were delayed and smaller. Interleukin-1 i.c.v. and PGE2 i.c.v. were weak pyretic agents at both ages. We conclude that the lamb's diminished febrile response to endotoxin i.v. is not caused by a lesser rise in CSF PGE2, rather it may be due, at least in part, to reduced responsiveness to this putative mediator. Regardless of age, the sheep differs from other species in that pyrogen/PGE2 coupling occurs primarily at a site in brain that is better accessible from blood than CSF.
Nerve cells are exquisitely sensitive to target tissue derived factors and the discovery that nerve growth factor could be retrogradely transported in axons suggested that the physical translocation of proteins along the axon could be a mechanism to convey this signal. This message is not due to the neurotrophic factor itself but rather due to second messengers generated by interaction with receptors. We have previously demonstrated the retrograde axonal transport of the alpha subunits of two putative second messenger molecules Gi and Gz. We have investigated more thoroughly the transport of the alpha subunit of Gz (Gz alpha) and in order to be more certain that the immunoreactivity seen is due to Gz alpha, we have made antibodies to peptides from both the N- and C-terminal regions of Gz alpha, which recognise the same 41 kDa band on Western blots of brain and sciatic nerve extracts. This band is eliminated when the antibodies are previously incubated with the specific peptide to which they were made. Using these antibodies for immunohistochemical localisation for Gz alpha, we now report that the GTP-binding protein Gz, is not only retrogradely transported in axons but that it translocates to the neuronal nucleus. Furthermore, the levels seen in the nuclear compartment decline after axotomy or ligation of the mice under ether anaesthetic, suggesting it is the retrogradely transported Gz alpha that is accumulating in the nucleus after activation at the nerve terminal.
Recently, a 40% reduction in the total of oxytocin immunoreactive neurons of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus in AIDS patients was reported. In the present study, we determined whether this decrease is associated with a diminished amount of oxytocin mRNA. We used in situ hybridization combined with densitometric image analysis for the quantitative assessment of oxytocin gene expression in the paraventricular nucleus of a group of AIDS patients (n=10) and a carefully matched control group (n=8). We found no significant difference (P=0.08) in the amount of oxytocin mRNA per total paraventricular nucleus between the two groups. In addition, no significant differences were found in the part of the volume of the paraventricular nucleus that was occupied by hybridized cells (P=0.12) or in the mean signal density (P=0.08). The findings do not support the hypothesis that the extensive decrease in oxytocin immunoreactive neurons of the paraventricular nucleus in AIDS is associated with a decrease in total oxytocin mRNA content in this nucleus. The data are compatible with the suggestion that in AIDS the biosynthesis of oxytocin is changed in an unknown way at the (post)transcriptional level.
The absence of laminin alpha 2 chain causes muscle cell degeneration and peripheral dysmyelination in congenital muscular dystrophy patients and dy mice, suggesting its role in the maintenance of sarcolemmal architecture and peripheral myelinogenesis. Here we demonstrate the secretion of laminin alpha 2 chain in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Laminin alpha 2 chain was detected as a minor component of the total CSF proteins or glycoproteins. Laminin alpha 2 chain was localized in the cytoplasm of epithelial cells of choroid plexus, suggesting active secretion. Our results suggest that immunochemical analysis of CSF laminin alpha 2 chain could be useful as an aid for the diagnosis of congenital muscular dystrophy.
The central nucleus of the amygdala (CNA) integrates visceral responses to stress partially through efferent projections to portions of the medial nuclei of the solitary tracts (mNTS) containing catecholaminergic neurons. To determine anatomical sites for CNA modulation of these neurons, immunoperoxidase detection of anterogradely transported Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) or biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) was combined with immunogold-silver labeling of the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase, in adult rat mNTS. From 350 anterogradely labeled terminals identified within the intermediate mNTS, 30% formed symmetric, inhibitory-type synapses and the remainder lacked recognized junctions as seen within a single plane of section. Of the terminals forming symmetric synapses, 16% were presynaptic to tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive dendrites and the remainder to unlabeled dendrites. The level of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity as assessed by density of gold-silver particles was significantly lower in dendrites receiving synaptic input from CNA efferents as compared with dendrites of the same sizes (2.0 microns 2 in mean area) which received synapses from unlabeled terminals or lacked recognizable synaptic inputs. When separately examined without regard to afferent input, the medium- and larger-sized dendrites having mean cross-sectional areas of 1-3 microns 2 also contained significantly less tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity than small (&lt; 1 micron 2) dendrites. These results suggest that CNA efferents to the mNTS inhibit non-catecholamine-containing neurons and a subpopulation of catecholaminergic neurons distinguished by their low levels of tyrosine hydroxylase. The findings also indicate that small, presumably more distal, dendrites in the intermediate mNTS may synthesize and/or release catecholamines.
Previous work has shown that the avian retina receives two types of centrifugal fibers from the brain. These types can be distinguished based on the size and the morphology of their terminal endings and have been termed convergent and divergent. The centrifugal fibers arise from the isthmooptic nucleus (ION) and the surrounding ectopic cell region (ECR). We used injections of anterograde tracers either to the ION/ECR or to the ECR only to determine the morphology, depth of termination, and regional distribution of the centrifugal fibers arising from each. We found that the ECR gives rise only to the divergent type of the centrifugal fiber, whereas the ION gives rise mainly to the convergent type but may also send some fibers of the divergent type. Most of the fibers project contralaterally, although a few from the ECR project ipsilaterally. The terminals of either type are not uniformly distributed throughout the retina; instead, they are found mainly in the inferior, midtemporal, to nasal portion of the retina and appear to avoid the fovea and most of the red field. By comparison, the ION receives a major projection from portions of the tectum that receive input from the fovea and the red field in a type of neural loop. The neural loop does not project to the same point (homotopic), but projects from the red field to the inferior retina (heterotopic), as was recently proposed by Holden (1990; Vis. Neurosci. 4:493-497). The distribution of centrifugal axons corresponds to displaced ganglion cells that selectively innervate the nuclei of the accessory optic system (AOS), including the nucleus of the basal optic root (dorsal, ventral, and lateral) and the nucleus lentiformis mesencephali, pars magnocellularis. We suggest that the centrifugal axons act by increasing the gain on the AOS, thereby enhancing retinal stabilization of gaze with improved accuracy of pecking of small objects.
Subtypes of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) were characterized in human temporal cortex and in a alpha 4 beta 2 nAChR-transfected M10 cell line using the nicotinic agonists epibatidine, ABT 418 and (-)nicotine in competition studies with [3H]nicotine and [3H]cytisine. The three agonists best fitted to an one-site model in M10 cells with the rank of potencies: epibatidine &gt; &gt; (-)-nicotine &gt; ABT 418. Heterogeneous nAChRs were revealed for epibatidine and ABT 418 in the human temporal cortex. Both compounds labelled a major binding site (Ki 0.35 nM and 68.6 nM respectively) and an additional minor binding site with higher affinity (Ki 0.002 nM and 0.86 nM respectively). Corresponding data for (-)nicotine were a major site (Ki 2.80 nM) and an additional minor site with lower affinity (Ki 2150 nM). Selective losses in the major population of nAChR were observed in the temporal cortex of brains from individuals with Alzheimer's disease with all three agonists. This suggested that the alpha 4 beta 2 nAChR subunit might be the most vulnerable in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and a possible target for therapeutic strategies.
A rat brain synaptosomal model was used to investigate the possible role of the cellular prion protein (PrP) in the regulation of intracellular free calcium levels ([Ca2+i). Treatment of synaptosomes with bacterially derived recombinant human PrP in the range 20-100 micrograms ml-1 resulted in dose-dependent elevations of [Ca2+]i. These increases were dependent on extracellular calcium and were inhibited by gadolinium chloride, a potent blocker of voltage-sensitive calcium channels. Conversely, when calcium channels were activated by synaptosomal depolarization, treatment with monoclonal antibody to PrP in the range 200-320 ng IgG ml-1 resulted in a dose-dependent reduction of [Ca2+i, which was blocked by competition with PrP preparations. These results indicate that PrP is associated with regulation of intracellular free calcium levels through an interaction with voltage-sensitive calcium channels.
To identify the distributed brain regions used for appreciating the grammatical, semantic and thematic aspects of a story, regional cerebral blood flow was measured with positron emission tomography in nine normal volunteers during the reading of Aesop's fables. In four conditions, subjects had to monitor the fables for font changes, grammatical errors, a semantic feature associated with a fable character, and the moral of the fable. Both right and left prefrontal cortices were consistently, but selectively, activated across the grammatical, semantic, and moral conditions. In particular, appreciating the moral of a story required activating a distributed set of brain regions in the right hemisphere which included the temporal and prefrontal cortices. These findings emphasize that story processing engages a widely distributed network of brain regions, a subset of which become preferentially active during the processing of a specific aspect of the text.
Using path analysis to determine the systems-level neural networks mediating specific tasks from regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) data obtained by positron emission tomography (PET), we recently found in young subjects strong functional linkages during a face matching task along a right hemisphere ventral network including occipital, temporal, and frontal regions. In this study, PET data obtained during a face matching task from mildly affected patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and healthy matched controls showed that (1) the neural model obtained in young subjects provides a good fit to data from old subjects; (2) although the DAT patients could perform this task with the same accuracy as controls, they did not use the same functional network.
Considering the long-lasting neuroadaptations that occur in the brain after exposure to drugs of abuse, we found that the facilitatory effect of an EC50 concentration (0.1 microM) of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine, unlike that of the muscarinic receptor agonist oxotremorine, on K(+)-induced [3H]dopamine release from rat striatal slices was enhanced about 2-fold 1 month after cessation of intermittent morphine treatment. Similarly, the inhibitory effect of physostigmine on K(+)-induced [14C]acetylcholine release from the slices was enhanced subsequent to morphine treatment, whereas that of oxotremorine appeared to be unchanged. Therefore, intermittent morphine administration may cause a very long-lasting increase of muscarinic receptor activation by released endogenous acetylcholine in rat striatum, which may play a pivotal role in the enduring character of stimulus hyperresponsiveness after exposure to drugs of abuse.
An innovative method, direct peptide profiling of small samples of nervous tissue by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry, in combination with peptide characterization, immunocytochemistry in conjunction with specific neuronal labeling by backfilling of the penis nerve, and bioassay of peptides was used to study the intrinsic neuronal expression patterns of distinct sets of related FMRFa peptides and their significance for the organization of male copulation behavior in the mollusk, Lymnaea stagnalis. Previous studies indicate that the sets of FMRFa-related and GDPFLRFa-related peptides are encoded by two alternatively spliced transcripts of the single FMRFa gene. Direct mass spectrometry revealed that both FMRFa-related and GDPFLRFa-related peptides are present in the penis nerve, the sole nerve that innervates the penis complex. Accordingly, authentic FMRFa, GDPFLRFa, and related peptides were purified from the penis complex. The loci of synthesis of FMRFa and related peptides could be traced to the right cerebral ventral lobe, those of GDPFLRFa and related peptides to the B group neurons in the right parietal ganglion and to a few unidentified neurons in the right pleural ganglion. Notwithstanding their related structures, the two sets of peptides have distinctly different actions on the penis retractor muscle.
Astrocytes have a critical role in the neuronal response to ischemia, as their production of neurotrophic mediators can favorably impact on the extreme sensitivity of nervous tissue to oxygen deprivation. Using a differential display method, a novel putative RNA binding protein, RA301, was cloned from reoxygenated astrocytes. Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence showed two ribonucleoprotein domains and serine/arginine-rich domains, suggestive of their function as RNA splicing factor. Northern analysis displayed striking induction only in cultured astrocytes within 15 min of reoxygenation and reached a maximum by 60 min after hypoxia/reoxygenation. Immunoblotting demonstrated expression of an immunoreactive polypeptide of the expected molecular mass, 36 kDa, in lysates of hypoxia/reoxygenated astrocytes. Induction of RA301 mRNA was mediated, in large part, by endogenously generated reactive oxygen species, as shown by diphenyl iodonium, an inhibitor of neutrophil-type nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase which blocks oxygen-free radical formation by astrocytes. Similarly, increased expression of RA301 in supporting a neurotrophic function of astrocytes was suggested by inhibition of interleukin-6 elaboration, a neuroprotective cytokine, in the presence of antisense oligonucleotide for RA301. These studies provide a first step in characterizing a novel putative RNA binding protein, whose expression is induced by oxygen-free radicals generated during hypoxia/reoxygenation, and which may have an important role in redirection of biosynthetic events observed in the ischemic tissues.
It has been well established that protein-tyrosine phosphatase CD45 is critically involved in the regulation of initial tyrosine phosphorylation and effector functions of T and B cells. However, the signaling pathway governed by CD45 is not completely understood. In B cells, it has not been unequivocally resolved as to which protein-tyrosine kinases (PTKs) associated with B cell antigen receptor are regulated by CD45 in intact cells. As a first step toward the elucidation of CD45-initiated signaling events, we have tried to identify physiological substrates for CD45 by analyzing PTK activity in CD45-deficient clones recently generated from the immature B cell line WEHI-231. The results clearly demonstrated that among PTKs examined (Lyn, Lck, and Syk), only Lyn kinase is dysregulated in the absence of CD45 such that without B cell antigen receptor ligation, Lyn is hyperphosphorylated and activated in CD45-negative clones. Thus, Lyn seems to be a selective in vivo substrate for CD45 in immature B cells.
L1 is a highly conserved cell adhesion molecule with complete homology of the cytoplasmic domain between the known mammalian protein sequences. Since the cytoplasmic domains of other adhesion molecules have been shown to influence adhesion, we have investigated the effects of deletion of the cytoplasmic domain on the ability of L1 to mediate homophilic adhesion. Full length L1 and a truncated L1, lacking 95% of the cytoplasmic domain, were expressed in myeloma cells. Independent stable transfectants were assayed for the ability to form aggregates. Myelomas expressing L1 lacking the cytoplasmic domain were able to form cell aggregates as well as the myelomas expressing full length L1. Cell aggregate formation was correlated with the level of L1 expression, and the aggregation could be blocked by anti-L1 Fabs. Similar results were obtained in adhesion assays of the myeloma cells to substrate-bound L1. These results indicate that the cytoplasmic domain of L1 is not required for homophilic interactions.
We have examined the developmental profile of the alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenergic receptor mRNA expression in the rat iris. The expression of the six mRNAs was studied using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. At 4 weeks, the dominant mRNA transcripts in the rat iris were alpha-1B, alpha-1C and alpha-2A. This pattern of alpha adrenoceptor expression was seen from birth, throughout development, and maintained into old age.
Studies were conducted to determine the influence of ethanol on target-directed fiber outgrowth in culture, using embryonic chick spinal cord-muscle, and fetal rat septal-hippocampal co-cultured explants. Process extension from the spinal cord and septal explants in control cultures was selectively oriented toward the appropriate target tissue. Ethanol in the culture medium (500 mg/dl) eliminated this target-oriented outgrowth in both systems, although the overall extent of neurite outgrowth was not affected. In an effort to further characterize the source of this disruption, target explants were grown alone, with and without ethanol, and the target-conditioned culture media was subsequently harvested and placed on newly plated spinal cord or septal explants, to determine whether ethanol decreased the target production of soluble substances. To determine whether deposition of substrate-bound materials by the target tissue was affected by ethanol, spinal cord or septal explants were plated in wells which had previously been occupied by the appropriate target tissue. These studies revealed that ethanol significantly inhibited production of soluble and substrate-bound materials by muscle explants, but not by hippocampal explants. It was concluded that the ethanol-induced loss of target-directed neurite outgrowth in the spinal cord explants could be accounted for primarily by the attenuated production of neurotropic/neurotropic substances by the muscle tissue. The loss of target-directionality in the septal explants appeared to be due to other factors, possibly related to ethanol-induced compromise of the capacity of the septal neurons to respond appropriately to target-derived neurotrophic/neurotropic substances. The implications of these results for the fetal alcohol syndrome are considered.
Thy-1, a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily, is one of the most abundant glycoproteins on mammalian neurons. Nevertheless, its role in the peripheral or central nervous system is poorly understood. Certain monoclonal antibodies to Thy-1 promote neurite outgrowth by rodent central nervous system neurons in vitro, suggesting that Thy-1 functions, in part, by modulating neurite outgrowth. We describe a binding site for Thy-1 on astrocytes. This Thy-1-binding protein has been characterized by immunofluroesence with specific anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies and by three competitive binding assays using (i) anti-idiotype antibodies, (ii) purified Thy-1, and (iii) Thy-1-transfected cells. The Thy-1-binding protein may participate in axonal or dendritic development in the nervous system.
Animal studies and cell culture experiments demonstrated that posttranscriptional editing of the transcript of the GluR-2 gene, resulting in substitution of an arginine for glutamine in the second transmembrane region (TM II) of the expressed protein, is associated with a reduction in Ca2+ permeability of the receptor channel. Thus, disturbances in GluR-2 RNA editing with alteration of intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis could lead to neuronal dysfunction and even neuronal degeneration. The present study determined the proportions of edited and unedited GluR-2 RNA in the prefrontal cortex of brains from patients with Alzheimer's disease, in the striatum of brains from patients with Huntington's disease, and in the same areas of brains from age-matched schizophrenics and controls, by using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, restriction endonuclease digestion, gel electrophoresis and scintillation radiometry. In the prefrontal cortex of controls, &lt; 0.1% of all GluR-2 RNA molecules were unedited and &gt; 99.9% were edited; in the prefrontal cortex both of schizophrenics and of Alzheimer's patients approximately 1.0% of all GluR-2 RNA molecules were unedited and 99% were edited. In the striatum of controls and of schizophrenics, approximately 0.5% of GluR-2 RNA molecules were unedited and 99.5% were edited; in the striatum of Huntington's patients nearly 5.0% of GluR-2 RNA was unedited. In the prefrontal white matter of controls, approximately 7.0% of GluR-2 RNA was unedited. In the normal human prefrontal cortex and striatum, the large majority of GluR-2 RNA molecules contains a CGG codon for arginine in the TMII coding region; this implies that the corresponding AMPA receptors have a low Ca2+ permeability, as previously demonstrated for the rat brain. The process of GluR-2 RNA editing is compromised in a region-specific manner in schizophrenia, in Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's Chorea although in each of these disorders there is still a large excess of edited GluR-2 RNA molecules. Disturbances of GluR-2 RNA editing leading to excessive Ca2+ permeability, may contribute to neuronal dysfunction in schizophrenia and to neuronal death in Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease.
We have investigated the regulation of an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated synaptic potential by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated inhibition using extracellular and whole-cell voltage clamp recordings in rat auditory cortex in vitro. Single afferent stimulus pulses at low intensity elicited a slow extracellular negativity (Component C) that was mediated by NMDA receptors. At higher intensities, Component C was suppressed by recruitment of GABAergic inhibition. To understand the actions of GABAergic inhibition on Component C, we determined the effects of: (i) paired-pulse stimulation, which depresses GABAergic inhibition; (ii) pharmacological antagonism of GABA receptors; and (iii) afferent stimulation in slices from neonatal rats prior to the development of cortical inhibition. The results indicate that GABAergic inhibition prevents Component C from occurring, thereby preventing its reduction upon repeated stimulation. Whole-cell voltage clamp recordings were used to test the hypothesis that GABAergic suppression occurred by way of membrane hyperpolarization. At hyperpolarized holding potentials no NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic current was elicited, even with paired-pulse stimulation. At depolarized holding potentials a significant NMDA synaptic current was elicited despite the presence of GABAergic synaptic currents. We conclude that membrane hyperpolarization by GABAergic inhibition prevents the appearance and subsequent fatigue of an NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic potential. Reduction of inhibition can act as a 'switch' to fully release the NMDA potential as frequently as once every 10-20 s.
The axonal microtubule-associated protein, tau, is thought to play an important role in axonal growth and in the establishment of neuronal polarity. In adult human brain there are six alternatively spliced tau isoforms, which have different microtubule binding affinities in vitro. The tubulin-tau interaction is further modified by phosphorylation of tau and, compared to adult brain tau, both foetal brain tau and paired helical filament (PHF) tau, characteristic of Alzheimer's disease, are hyperphosphorylated. In vivo both the expression of tau isoforms and their phosphorylation states are developmentally regulated. In order to establish the correlation between the expression of tau isoforms and their pattern of phosphorylation, we have characterised these two features in several in vitro models of neuronal differentiation, including the human neuroblastoma cell lines, SK-N-SH, SH-SY5Y and IMR32 cells, rat PC12 cells and primary rat cortical neurones. Sensitive RT-PCR analysis revealed a different complement of tau isoforms in the different cell lines and neuritogenesis was associated mainly with an increase in the overall tau protein level with no apparent phosphorylation changes. A switch in tau isoform expression occurred only at the terminal stages of neuronal development, when it may be important in reinforcing the previously established axonal cytoarchitecture.
Polymerase chain reaction amplification of the cDNA encoding steroid 17 alpha-hydroxylase (P450c17) demonstrated very low levels of this transcript and a shorter variant of still lower abundance in rat adrenals and brain. Sequence analysis of the two amplified products revealed that the shorter variant resulted from a deletion of the second exon which does not maintain the open reading frame, suggesting that faulty splicing gave rise to this minor species.
Cyclic-AMP is known to be released from cells and tissues and the amounts released have been reported to reflect intracellular cAMP levels. To measure cAMP release the phosphodiesterase inhibitor IBMX is often used to increase the amount of cAMP to a detectable level. Using this method to follow cAMP dynamics of melanotrope cells in the neurointermediate pituitary lobe of the amphibian Xenopus laevis we show that the alpha-MSH secreto-inhibitors baclofen (GABAB receptor agonist) and dopamine inhibit cAMP release, confirming the idea that these factors inhibit alpha-MSH secretion by reducing adenylyl cyclase activity. Using a sensitive cAMP radioimmunoassay we were able to measure cAMP release from Xenopus neurointermediate lobes in the absence of IBMX. Both baclofen and dopamine appeared to inhibit alpha-MSH secretion but strongly stimulated the release of cAMP. This indicates that the extracellular cAMP level is not a reliable parameter to measure the intracellular cAMP level in the absence of IBMX. The data furthermore suggest that cAMP release is a physiologically regulated process, which might be involved in lowering intracellular cAMP levels associated with a cellular secretory compartment. No apparent differences could be found in the lobe content of cAMP at the termination of secreto-inhibitor treatment, leading to the idea that the cAMP compartment associated with secretion in small relative to the total amount of cAMP present in the lobe.
Adenosine is an important inhibitory neuromodulator in the cerebral cortex, yet it remains unclear how extracellular adenosine concentrations are regulated. Recently, it has been shown that beta-adrenergic receptor stimulation in rat cortical cultures causes the accumulation of extracellular adenosine derived by enzymatic hydrolysis from adenosine cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) transported into the extracellular space. In this study we show that vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), in addition to activating adenylyl cyclase and promoting the accumulation of intracellular cAMP in rat cortical cultures, also causes transport of cAMP and accumulation of extracellular adenosine. We further show that the extracellular accumulation of adenosine in response to VIP can be blocked by inhibition of cAMP transport, cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase activity, and 5'-nucleotidase, indicating that extracellular cAMP is the source of the adenosine. Cyclic AMP transport may be a general mechanism by which a variety of neuromodulators that act upon receptors coupled to adenylyl cyclase might regulate extracellular adenosine levels and thereby inhibitory tone in the cerebral cortex.
In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Ras regulates adenylate cyclase, which is essential for progression through the G1 phase of the cell cycle. However, even when the adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) pathway was bypassed, the double disruption of RAS1 and RAS2 resulted in defects in growth at both low and high temperatures. Furthermore, the simultaneous disruption of RAS1, RAS2, and the RAS-related gene RSR1 was lethal at any temperature. The triple-disrupted cells were arrested late in the mitotic (M) phase, which was accompanied by an accumulation of cells with divided chromosomes and sustained histone H1 kinase activity. The lethality of the triple disruption was suppressed by the multicopies of CDC5, CDC15, DBF2, SPO12, and TEM1, all of which function in the completion of the M phase. Mammalian ras also suppressed the lethality, which suggests that a similar signaling pathway exists in higher eukaryotes. These results demonstrate that S. cerevisiae Ras functions in the completion of the M phase in a manner independent of the Ras-cAMP pathway.
1. Observations were made on seven human subjects with electrodes implanted in the cerebellar thalamus for the control of tremor. 2. Weak stimulation at 1-2 Hz resulted in sudden lapses of posture of actively contracting contralateral limb muscles. Stronger stimuli caused muscle twitches even in relaxed muscles. 3. The stronger stimuli produced short latency facilitation of EMG activity in contralateral muscles; the pattern of muscle facilitation, the conduction velocity of the descending pathway and the estimated rise time of the underlying composite EPSP were consistent with direct activation of the corticospinal tract. 4. The lapses of posture produced by the weaker stimuli were associated with inhibition of ongoing EMG for up to 150 ms. This was due to the interruption of tonic drive to motoneurons rather than to their inhibition and was associated with depression of the motor evoked potential in relaxed muscles produced by weak anodal transcranial stimulation. The inhibition could be produced by 0.1 ms pulses, implying that a large-diameter fibre system was being activated. 5. A number of mechanisms could contribute to the inhibition, including inhibition from the reticular nucleus of the thalamus.

Several novel cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor ligands with differing degrees of receptor selectivity were characterised in both in vitro and in vivo models. In radioligand binding assays, the dipeptoid PD 135666 ((benzenebutanoic acid, beta-[[3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-methyl-1-oxo-2- [[(tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7)]dec-2-yloxy)carbonyl]amino]propyl] amino],-[R-(+*,S*)]) selectively inhibited [125I]Bolton Hunter CCK-8 binding to CCKB receptors in mouse cerebral cortex (CCKB IC50 = 0.1 nM) but was weaker as an inhibitor of CCKA receptor binding in the rat pancreas (IC50 = 26 nM). In contrast, its enantiomer PD 140548 ((benzenebutanoic acid, beta-[[3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-methyl-1-oxo-2-[[(tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7] dec-2-yloxy)carbonyl]amino]propyl] amino],-[S-(R*,S*)) displayed the reverse selectivity (CCKA IC50 = 2.8 nM, CCKB IC50 = 260 nM). PD 142898 ([benzenebutanic acid, beta-[[3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-methyl-2-[[[(2- methylcyclohexyl)oxy]carbonyl]amino]-1-oxopropyl]amino]-,[1S-[1 alpha[S*(R*)],2 beta ]]) possessed nanomolar affinity for both receptor subtypes (CCKB IC50 = 4.2 nM, CCKA IC50 = 3.8 nM) whereas its corresponding enantiomer PD 142896 ([benzenebutanic acid, beta-[[3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-methyl-2-[[[(2- methylcyclohexyl)oxy]carbonyl]amino]-1-oxopropyl]amino]-, [1R-[1 alpha[S*(R*)],2 beta]]) displayed 147-fold selectivity for the CCKA receptor (CCKA IC50 = 7.9 nM, CCKB IC50 = 1160 nM). The pyrazolidinone PD 141479 (trans-5-(2-chlorophenyl)-3-oxo-4-phenyl-N-[4- (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1-pyrazolidinecarboxamide) was found to interact selectively with the CCKB receptor (CCKB IC50 = 36 nM, CCKA IC50 = 1100 nM). PD 140548, PD 142896, PD 135666 and PD 142898 antagonised the CCKA receptor-mediated contraction of guinea pig gall bladder with respective pA2 values of 7.2, 7.4, 6.6 and 8.5. In the rat elevated X-maze, PD 135666 and PD 141479, together with the mixed CCKA/B receptor antagonist PD 142898 produced anxiolytic effects with respective minimum effective doses (MEDs) of 0.01, 0.001 and 0.01 mg/kg s.c. Furthermore, the selective CCKB receptor antagonist CI-988 (0.01-1 mg/kg) and PD 142898 (0.001-0.1 mg/kg), dose dependently induced behavioural changes suggestive of anxiolysis in the marmoset human threat test with respective MED values of &lt; 0.01 and &lt; 0.001 mg/kg s.c. In contrast, compounds with the CCKA selective profile were either inactive in the two behavioural models or showed activity only at doses of 1 mg/kg and above. These data suggest that the anxiolytic effects of CCK receptor antagonists parallel their affinity for the CCKB rather than the CCKA receptor.
The intermediate, medial part of the hyperstriatum ventrale (IMHV) is a region of the avian forebrain which is known to be essential for early learning in the domestic chick. The IMHV in an in vitro slice preparation displays two forms of synaptic plasticity. The incidence of both varies with age and is maximal between 3 and 5 days post-hatch. Since NMDA receptors are critical for at least one of these plasticities, we have investigated the relationship between age and the contribution of NMDA receptors to the field response evoked by local, low-frequency stimulation and have found that the magnitude of the NMDA-dependent component of the response varies with age peaking between 3 and 5 days post-hatch. Spontaneous neural activity, recorded intracellularly, can be completely and reversibly silenced by NMDA receptor blockade and the incidence of spontaneous activity also varies with age, peaking between 3 and 5 days. These results suggest that the IMHV contains NMDA receptors which can be activated near resting membrane potential. Either the efficiency or the numbers of these receptors is maximal at a specific point in development and their peak activity coincides with a peak in synaptic plasticity. These characteristics are similar to those reported for young mammals.
The differential distribution of NMDA receptor subunit mRNAs in the developing mammalian cerebellum has been previously described. In this study, we investigated the temporal expression of NMDA receptor proteins in the postnatal murine cerebellum using antibodies specific for the NMDA zeta 1 and NMDA epsilon subunits. Our results showed a gradual increase during the first three weeks of life in the relative amount of NMDA zeta 1 and NMDA epsilon 1 proteins. In contrast, NMDA epsilon 2 increased transiently during this period, reaching a maximum around postnatal day 9 and decreasing thereafter to nearly undetectable levels by the end of the third week of life. The level of NMDA epsilon 3 increased dramatically between postnatal days 9 and 15 and thereafter remained constant. Immunoprecipitation of native proteins revealed that a large fraction of NMDA epsilon 2 was associated with NMDA zeta 1 and epsilon 1. At later developmental stages, NMDA epsilon 3 was predominantly assembled with NMDA zeta 1 but not with NMDA epsilon 1 or NMDA epsilon 2. These results demonstrate that NMDA receptor subtypes, formed by the assembly of different NMDA epsilon subunits with NMDA zeta 1, are sequentially expressed in the developing mouse cerebellum. The time course of their expression suggest, that these NMDA receptor subtypes may contribute to specific aspects of granule cell differentiation in the cerebellum.
The ability of the novel antipsychotic drug risperidone to alter striatal neurotensin mRNA levels was investigated and compared with the typical antipsychotic drug haloperidol. Quantitative in situ hybridization studies revealed that risperidone treatment does not affect neurotensin mRNA levels in nucleus accumbens or caudate-putamen. This absence of effect contrasts with the dramatic increases in neurotensin mRNA seen after haloperidol treatment in these brain regions. Our results, while conforming the atypical nature of risperidone, do not support the notion that neurotensin elevation in the nucleus accumbens is necessary for the development of an antipsychotic effect.
The type I cGMP-dependent protein kinases (cGK I alpha and I beta) form homodimers (subunit M(r) approximately 76,000), presumably through conserved, amino-terminal leucine zipper motifs. Type II cGMP-dependent protein kinase (cGK II) has been reported to be monomeric (M(r) approximately 86,000), but recent cloning and sequencing of mouse brain cGK II cDNA revealed a leucine zipper motif near its amino terminus. In the present study, recombinant mouse brain cGK II was expressed, purified, and characterized. Sucrose gradient centrifugation and gel filtration chromatography were used to determine M(r) values for holoenzymes of cGK I alpha (168,000) and cGK II (152,500), which suggest that both are dimers. Native cGK I alpha possessed significantly lower K alpha values for cGMP (8-fold) and beta-phenyl-1,N2-etheno-cGMP (300-fold) than did recombinant cGK II. Conversely, the Sp- and Rp-isomers of 8-(4-chloro-phenylthio)-guanosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate demonstrated selectivity toward cGK II in assays of kinase activation or inhibition, respectively. A peptide substrate derived from histone f2B had a 20-fold greater Vmax/Km ratio for cGK I alpha than for cGK II, whereas a peptide based upon a cAMP response element binding protein phosphorylation site exhibited a greater Vmax/Km ratio for cGK II. Finally, gel filtration of extracts of mouse intestine partially resolved two cGK activities, one of which had properties similar to those demonstrated by recombinant cGK II. The combined results show that both cGK I and cGK II form homodimers but possess distinct cyclic nucleotide and substrate specificities.
Ceramide produced by the hydrolysis of sphingomyelin is an important cellular intermediate in hormone action. Here, we present evidence that interleukin 1 beta (IL-1 beta) binding to normal human fibroblasts initiates a lipid messenger cascade that takes place in a sphingomyelin-rich plasma membrane domain with the characteristics of caveolae. Hormone binding first stimulated the appearance of diacylglycerol (DAG) in a caveolearich membrane fraction isolated from whole cells. This was immediately followed by the loss of a resident population of sphingomyelin from the fraction and the concomitant appearance of ceramide. The ceramide produced in response to IL-1 beta blocked platelet-derived growth factor-stimulated DNA synthesis. IL-1 beta stimulated the appearance of DAG in other fractions from the same cell, but this DAG was not coupled to ceramide production. This indicates that ceramide production is highly compartmentalized at the cell surface. Since caveolae are known to be involved in membrane internalization, they may be essential for the delivery of ceramide to a site of action within the cell.
Dopamine terminals in the monkey prefrontal cortex (PFC) synaptically target the distal dendrites of both pyramidal cells and GABA interneurons. We sought to determine whether the latter input includes the innervation of interneurons that utilize calretinin (CalR) as a calcium-binding protein. Sections through prefrontal area 9 of cynomolgus monkeys were processed by immunoperoxidase for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) to label dopamine varicosities and by pre-embedding immunogold for CalR. Electron microscopic examination of layers 1-3 revealed numerous TH-immunoreactive (TH-ir) terminals, but few were located in the vicinity of CalR-ir dendrites. Although close appositions were sometimes detected between these labeled processes, no synaptic inputs from TH-ir terminals to CalR-ir dendrites were observed. However, in adjacent sections from the same animals, TH-ir terminals were observed to synapse on GABA-ir dendrites. These findings suggest that dopamine afferents to the monkey PFC target the subclasses of GABA interneurons that do not contain CalR.
Comparable magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sections of right and left anterior and posterior cingulate gyrus were measured blindly with a method developed by the authors in 14 patients with schizophrenia (by DSM-III-R criteria) and 14 normal volunteers individually matched to the patients for age, sex, education, and parental socioeconomic status. Interrater reliability met or exceeded 0.92 (k) on all cingulate structures measured. Brain volume in the two groups differed by 2% (normal &gt; schizophrenia), but the difference was not significant. All cingulate gyri measures were nonsignificantly smaller in the patient group by 3-5%. There was an inverse correlation between left anterior cingulate size and severity of hallucinations that was, however, not significant after Bonferroni correction. Lateral asymmetry of the cingulate regions measured was the same in both groups, with the left being nonsignificantly smaller than the right for all regions. We demonstrate a reliable method, unreported thus far in the literature, to measure the cingulate gyrus on MRI; the results suggest that left cingulate gyrus size may be inversely related to severity of hallucinations in schizophrenia.
The presence of distribution of several neurochemical markers in human fungiform papillae and taste buds were investigated by the immunohistochemical technique. The gustatory cells of the taste buds are in synaptic contact with sensory nerve endings, and considering the taste buds strictly as specialized sensory organs, the amounts and distribution of some of the neurochemical markers were different to what we expected. For example, few structures showed immunoreactivity to the tachykinins substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and neurokinin A (NKA) also for the peptides vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY) and galanin, low amounts of immunoreactivity occurred. On the other hand, using antibodies to protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5), protein S-100, and glutamate, numerous nerve fibres and/or immunoreactive cells were found in the fungiform papillae, in the epithelium, in the connective tissue and around blood vessels, as well as in or near taste buds. Incubation with the antibodies against somatostatin, enkephalin, bombesin, peptide histidine isoleucine amide (PHI), cholecystokinin (CCK)/gastrin and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) was negative for the fungiform papillae. In conclusion, the present study has shown several immunoreactive structures using antibodies against certain neurochemical markers. Further investigations will hopefully correlate these morphological findings with functional taste perception data. Future studies of patients with taste disorders or other pathological changes correlated with taste and tongue will also be of utmost importance.
The content of oxytocin- and vasopressin-like immunoreactive (IR) peptides was measured in the thymic extract of 2, 5, 10, 15 and 20 month-old rats by radioimmunoassay before or after fractionation by high-pressure liquid chromatography. In both cases the content of the oxytocin-like IR peptide, which behaved like authentic oxytocin in the chromatography column, increased during aging. Compared to 2 month-old rats a significant 30% increase was observed in 5 month-old rats, whereas the maximal increase (200%) was found in 20 month-old rats. In contrast, the content of the vasopressin-like IR peptide, which behaved like authentic arg8-vasopressin in the chromatography column, decreased during aging. The decrease (30%) was evident in 5 month-old rats, and was maximal (80%) in 15 month-old rats. The present results suggest that the mechanisms regulating the content of oxytocin- and vasopressin-like IR peptides in the rat thymus undergo differential changes during aging. These processes might be linked to thymic involution.
Synaptic plasticity dependent on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors is thought to underlie certain types of learning and memory. In support of this, both hippocampal long-term potentiation and spatial learning in a watermaze are impaired by blocking NMDA receptors with a selective antagonist D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP5) or by a mutation in one of the receptor subunits. Here we report, however, that the AP5-induced learning deficit can be almost completely prevented if rats are pretrained in a different watermaze before administration of the drug. This is not because of stimulus generalization, and occurs despite learning of the second task remaining hippocampus dependent. An AP5-induced learning deficit is, however, still seen if the animals are pretrained using a non-spatial task. Thus, despite its procedural simplicity, the watermaze may involve multiple cognitive processes with distinct pharmacological properties; although required for some component of spatial learning, NMDA receptors may not be required for encoding the spatial representation of a specific environment.
The notochord is a midline mesodermal structure with an essential patterning function in all vertebrate embryos. Zebrafish floating head (flh) mutants lack a notochord, but develop with prechordal plate and other mesodermal derivatives, indicating that flh functions specifically in notochord development. We show that floating head is the zebrafish homologue of Xnot, a homeobox gene expressed in the amphibian organizer and notochord. We propose that flh regulates notochord precursor cell fate.

Ultra-low picomolar concentrations of the opioid antagonists naloxone (NLX) and naltrexone (NTX) have remarkably potent antagonist actions on excitatory opioid receptor functions in mouse dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, whereas higher nanomolar concentrations antagonize excitatory and inhibitory opioid functions. Pretreatment of naive nociceptive types of DRG neurons with picomolar concentrations of either antagonist blocks excitatory prolongation of the Ca(2+)-dependent component of the action potential duration (APD) elicited by picomolar-nanomolar morphine and unmasks inhibitory APD shortening. The present study provides a cellular mechanism to account for previous reports that low doses of NLX and NTX paradoxically enhance, instead of attenuate, the analgesic effects of morphine and other opioid agonists. Furthermore, chronic cotreatment of DRG neurons with micromolar morphine plus picomolar NLX or NTX prevents the development of (i) tolerance to the inhibitory APD-shortening effects of high concentrations of morphine and (ii) supersensitivity to the excitatory APD-prolonging effects of nanomolar NLX as well as of ultra-low (femtomolar-picomolar) concentrations of morphine and other opioid agonists. These in vitro studies suggested that ultra-low doses of NLX or NTX that selectively block the excitatory effects of morphine may not only enhance the analgesic potency of morphine and other bimodally acting opioid agonists but also markedly attenuate their dependence liability. Subsequent correlative studies have now demonstrated that cotreatment of mice with morphine plus ultra-low-dose NTX does, in fact, enhance the antinociceptive potency of morphine in tail-flick assays and attenuate development of withdrawal symptoms in chronic, as well as acute, physical dependence assays.
A significant and selective deficiency of ethanolamine plasmalogen (PPE) relative to phosphatidylethanolamine was identified in post mortem brain samples from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). This lipid defect showed anatomic specificity, being more marked at a site of neurodegeneration in AD brain than in a region relatively spared by the disease (mid-temporal cortex vs. cerebellum) and disease specificity for AD: it was not observed at the primary site of neurodegeneration in Huntington's disease (caudate nucleus) nor Parkinson's disease (substantia nigra). PPE deficiency parallels an inherent tendency towards membrane bilayer instability previously detected in AD brain which is necessarily due to a change in membrane lipid composition, and which may contribute to AD pathogenesis.
Using electrophysiological recordings, we studied a distal tibial mononeuropathy that involves the hind foot of rats reared in cages with wire grid flooring. In an initial set of experiments, serial sciatic-tibial motor conduction recordings were made in smaller or larger rats reared in cages with wire grid or sawdust flooring. Electrophysiological features of the neuropathy were loss in the amplitude of the distal tibial nerve M potential recorded over hind limb foot muscles, temporal dispersion of the potential, often into multiple peaks, and a prolonged distal latency of the response. The changes in M amplitude were more apparent in larger rats with a greater body weight. In a second series of experiments we studied sciatic-tibial conduction over 16 weeks in nondiabetic rats and rats rendered diabetic with streptozotocin raised and wire grid or plastic flooring. Tibial mononeuropathy developed in both wire grid-reared groups, but there was evidence that it appeared earlier in diabetic rats. Electrophysiological changes of distal mononeuropathy also obscured the expected slowing of sciatic-tibial motor conduction velocity from diabetics. Tibial mononeuropathy in rats reared on wire grid flooring may be a useful animal model of human entrapment neuropathy but its presence can confound studies of experimental neuropathy. Rats used in studies of experimental neuropathy should be housed in plastic cages with sawdust or shavings flooring.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptor in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) has been implicated in activity-dependent plasticity important for cortically evoked acquisition of fear-potentiated startle response. We examined the ultrastructural immunoperoxidase labeling of the R1 subunit of the NMDA receptor in the BLA of adult rats to determine the potential cellular and subcellular sites mediating the effects generated by NMDA activation. The localization was compared with that seen in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), the major efferent pathway from the central nucleus of the amygdala, which has a more pronounced involvement in autonomic function. Electron microscopy established that in the BLA, 68.4% (n = 177) of the profiles showing NMDAR1-like immunoreactivity (NMDAR1-LI) were dendrites, and 19.8% were distal tips of astrocytic processes. In contrast, profiles containing NMDAR1-LI (n = 262) in the BNST were more equally distributed between dendrites (37.4%) and axons (38.2%). The subcellular localization of NMDAR1 immunoreactivity was, however, similar in both regions. Our findings provide the first ultrastructural evidence that glutamate may prominently act through NMDAR1 receptors to elicit postsynaptic actions on intrinsic neurons in the BLA and BNST. The results also indicate that, in the BLA, the NMDAR1 receptor plays an important role in astrocytic function, whereas the receptor is more preferentially a presynaptic modulator in axons which terminate in or pass through the BNST.
The three dimensional organization of the dendritic trees of pyramidal cells in the rat hippocampus was investigated using intracellular injection of horseradish peroxidase in the in vitro hippocampal slice preparation and computer-aided reconstruction. The total dendritic length, dendritic length in each of the hippocampal laminae, and the number of dendritic branches were measured in 20 CA1 pyramidal cells, 7 neurons in CA2 and 20 CA3 pyramidal cells. The total dendritic length of CA3 pyramidal cells varied in a consistent fashion depending on their position within the field. Cells located close to the dentate gyrus had the smallest dendritic trees which averaged 9,300 microns in total length. Cells in the distal part of CA3 (near CA2) had the largest dendritic trees, averaging 15,800 microns. The CA2 field contained cells which resembled CA3 pyramidal cells in most respects except for the absence of thorny excrescences on their proximal dendrites. There were also smaller pyramidal cells that resembled CA1 neurons. CA1 pyramidal cells tended to be more homogeneous. Pyramidal neurons throughout the transverse extent of CA1 had a total dendritic length on the order of 13,500 microns. The quantitative analysis of the laminar distribution of dendrites demonstrated that the stratum oriens and stratum radiatum contained significant portions of the pyramidal cell dendritic trees. In Ca3, for example, 42-51% of the total dendritic length was located in stratum oriens; about 34% of the dendritic tree was located in stratum radiatium. The amount of dendritic length in stratum lacunosum-moleculare of CA3 varied depending on the location of the cell. Many CA3 cells located within the limbs of the dentate gyrus, for example, had no dendrites extending into stratum lacunosum-moleculare whereas those located distally in CA3 had about the same percentage of their dendritic tree in stratum lacunosum-moleculare as in stratum radiatum. In CA1, nearly half of the dendritic length was located in stratum radiatum, 34% was in stratum oriens and 18% was in stratum lacunosum-moleculare. These studies identified distinctive dendritic branching patterns, in the stratum radiatum and stratum lacunosum-moleculare, which clearly distinguished CA3 from CA1 neurons.
The neurochemical characteristics of the neuronal subsets that furnish different types of corticocortical connections have been only partially determined. In recent years, several cytoskeletal proteins have emerged as reliable markers to distinguish subsets of pyramidal neurons in the cerebral cortex of primates. In particular, previous studies using an antibody to nonphosphorylated neurofilament protein (SMI-32) have revealed a consistent degree of regional and laminar specificity in the distribution of a subpopulation of pyramidal cells in the primate cerebral cortex. The density of neurofilament protein-immunoreactive neurons was shown to vary across corticocortical pathways in macaque monkeys. In the present study, we have used the antibody SMI-32 to examine further and to quantify the distribution of a subset of corticocortically projecting neurons in a series of long ipsilateral corticocortical pathways in comparison to short corticocortical, commissural, and limbic connections. The results demonstrate that the long association pathways interconnecting the frontal, parietal, and temporal neocortex have a high representation of neurofilament protein-enriched pyramidal neurons (45-90%), whereas short corticocortical, callosal, and limbic pathways are characterized by much lower numbers of such neurons (4-35%). These data suggest that different types of corticocortical connections have differential representation of highly specific neuronal subsets that share common neurochemical characteristics, thereby determining regional and laminar cortical patterns of morphological and molecular heterogeneity. These differences in neuronal neurochemical phenotype among corticocortical circuits may have considerable influence on cortical processing and may be directly related to the type of integrative function subserved by each cortical pathway. Finally, it is worth noting that neurofilament protein-immunoreactive neurons are dramatically affected in the course of Alzheimer's disease. The present results support the hypothesis that neurofilament protein may be crucially linked to the development of selective neuronal vulnerability and subsequent disruption of corticocortical pathways that lead to the severe impairment of cognitive function commonly observed in age-related dementing disorders.
The immunosuppressant drug FK506 binds to the immunophilin protein FKBP12 and inhibits its prolyl isomerase activity. Immunosuppressive actions, however, are mediated via an FK506-FKBP12 inhibition of the Ca(2+)-activated phosphatase calcineurin. Physiologic cellular roles for FKBP12 have remained unclear. FKBP12 is physically associated with the RyR and IP3R Ca2+ channels in the absence of FK506, with added FK506 disrupting these complexes. Dissociation of FKBP12 results in alteration of channel Ca2+ conductance in both cases. We now report that calcineurin is physiologically associated with the IP3R-FKBP12 and RyR-FKBP12 receptor complexes and that this interaction can be disrupted by FK506 or rapamycin. Calcineurin anchored to the IP3R via FKBP12 regulates the phosphorylation status of the receptor, resulting in a dynamic Ca(2+)-sensitive regulation of IP3-mediated Ca2+ flux.
Regulated endocrine-specific protein, 18-kDa (RESP18), was previously cloned from rat neurointermediate pituitary based on its coordinate regulation with proopiomelanocortin and neuroendocrine specificity. RESP18 has no homology to any known protein. Although RESP18 is translocated across microsomal membranes after in vitro translation, AtT-20 pituitary tumor cells, which endogenously synthesize RESP18, do not release it into the culture medium. In this work, immunostaining and subcellular fractionation have identified RESP18 as an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein. Biosynthetic labeling and temperature block studies of AtT-20 cells demonstrated the localization of RESP18 to the ER lumen by a unique mechanism, degradation by proteolysis in a post-ER pre-Golgi compartment. Proteases in this compartment were saturated by exogenous RESP18 overexpression in AtT-20 cells. Furthermore, a calpain protease inhibitor enhanced secretion of RESP18 from AtT-20 cells overexpressing RESP18. Saturation and inhibition of the RESP18 degrading proteases allowed RESP18 to enter secretory granules and acquire a post-translational modification, likely O-glycosylation; this modified 21-kDa RESP18 isoform was the only RESP18 secreted. Rat anterior pituitary extracts contain 18-kDa and O-glycosylated RESP18 with similar properties. Exogenous RESP18 expression in hEK-293 cells demonstrated ER localization and RESP18 metabolism similar to AtT-20 cells, indicating that the cellular machinery involved in localizing RESP18 is not specific to neuroendocrine cells. The data implicate a novel ER localization mechanism for this neuroendocrine-specific luminal ER resident.
Severe childhood autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy (SCARMD) is a progressive muscle-wasting disorder common in North Africa that segregates with microsatellite markers at chromosome 13q12. Here, it is shown that a mutation in the gene encoding the 35-kilodalton dystrophin-associated glycoprotein, gamma-sarcoglycan, is likely to be the primary genetic defect in this disorder. The human gamma-sarcoglycan gene was mapped to chromosome 13q12, and deletions that alter its reading frame were identified in three families and one of four sporadic cases of SCARMD. These mutations not only affect gamma-sarcoglycan but also disrupt the integrity of the entire sarcoglycan complex.
The clock gene timeless (tim) is required for circadian rhythmicity in Drosophila. The accumulation of tim RNA followed a circadian rhythm, and the phase and period of the tim RNA rhythm were indistinguishable from those that have been reported for per. The tim RNA oscillations were found to be dependent on the presence of PER and TIM proteins, which demonstrates feedback control of tim by a mechanism previously shown to regulate per expression. The cyclic expression of tim appears to dictate the timing of PER protein accumulation and nuclear localization, suggesting that tim promotes circadian rhythms of per and tim transcription by restricting per RNA and PER protein accumulation to separate times of day.
Microelectrode recordings from behaving monkeys have shown that neuronal responses in the visual cerebral cortex can depend greatly on which aspect of the scene is the target of the animal's attention. Accumulating evidence suggests that while the early stages of the visual pathway provide a faithful representation of the retinal image, later stages of processing in the visual cortex hold representations that emphasize the viewer's current interest. By filtering out irrelevant signals and adding information about objects whose presence is remembered or inferred, the cortex creates an edited representation of the visual world that is dynamically modified to suit the immediate goals of the viewer.
Transsexuals have the strong feeling, often from childhood onwards, of having been born the wrong sex. The possible psychogenic or biological aetiology of transsexuality has been the subject of debate for many years. Here we show that the volume of the central subdivision of the bed nucleus of the stria terminals (BSTc), a brain area that is essential for sexual behaviour, is larger in men than in women. A female-sized BSTc was found in male-to-female transsexuals. The size of the BSTc was not influenced by sex hormones in adulthood and was independent of sexual orientation. Our study is the first to show a female brain structure in genetically male transsexuals and supports the hypothesis that gender identity develops as a result of an interaction between the developing brain and sex hormones.
New developments in neuroscience challenge nurses to care skillfully for patients with cerebrovascular diseases. Because stroke is the leading cause of brain damage in adults, professionals are urged to approach stroke with the same urgency as other medical emergencies. Understanding the physiologic early sequelae of brain damage is essential to appreciation of the newer therapeutic treatments under study. Cardiac and hemodynamic complications of cerebrovascular disease emphasize the important role of nurses in the assessment and protection of stroke patients. Nursing implications include public education about stroke symptoms and the urgent evaluation and management of stroke.
Suicide risk was studied in a sample of 346 mood disorder inpatients, 92 of whom were admitted after a current suicide attempt. The overall suicide mortality after a mean observation period of 6 years was 8%. The potential of attempted suicide to predict suicide risk in hospitalized patients with mood disorders was studied by survival analysis after subgrouping on the basis of whether a current suicide attempt had occurred or not. The suicide risk the first year after attempting suicide was 12% (11/92), compared with 2% (4/254) in the mood disorder subgroup with no current suicide attempt. The long-range suicide risk after a current suicide attempt in depression was 15% (14/92) as compared with 5% (13/254) among those without a current suicide attempt. It is concluded that a current suicide attempt in mood disorder inpatients predicts suicide risk particularly within the first year and should be taken very seriously.
Using single neuron recordings in monkey primary motor (MI) cortex, two series of experiments were conducted in order to know whether response preparation can begin before perceptual processing finishes, thus providing evidence for a temporal overlap of perceptual and motor processes. In Experiment 1, a &quot;left/right, Go/No-Go&quot; reaction time (RT) task was used. One monkey was trained to perform wrist flexion/extension movements to align a pointer with visual targets. The visual display was organized to provide a two-dimensional stimulus: side (an easy discrimination between left and right targets) which determined movement direction, and distance (a difficult discrimination between distal and proximal targets) which determined whether or not the movement was to be made. Changes in neuronal activity, when they were time-locked to the stimulus, were almost similar in the Go and No-Go trials, and when they were time-locked to movement onset, were markedly reduced in No-Go as compared to Go trials. In Experiment 2, a stimulus-response compatibility (SRC) task was used. Two monkeys were trained to align a pointer with visual targets, on either left or right. In the spatially &quot;compatible&quot; trials, they had to point at the stimulus position, whereas in the &quot;incompatible&quot; trials, they had to point at the target located in the opposite side. For 12.5% of neurons, changes in activity associated with incompatible trials looked like changes in activity associated with movements performed in the opposite direction during compatible trials, thus suggesting the hypothesis of an automatic activation of the congruent, but incorrect response. Results of both experiments provide evidence for a partial transmission of information from visual to motor cortical areas: that is, in the No-Go trials of the first task, information about movement direction, before the decision to perform or not this movement was made, and, in the incompatible trials of the SRC task, information about the congruent, but incorrect response, before the incongruent, but correct response was programmed.
A national postal survey of all UK hospital consultant geriatricians, general physicians and neurologists was performed in 1992/3 in order to describe the provision of hospital stroke services in the United Kingdom and to assess whether the recommendations of the King's Fund consensus conference on stroke had been widely implemented. Of 3478 survey forms, 2923 (84%) were returned and, of these 1953 (67%) consultants indicated that they routinely cared for patients with acute stroke. On their stated estimates, the survey respondents had admitted approximately 107,000 patients with acute stroke in the previous year, 40% of whom were cared for by geriatricians. Sixty-three per cent (1239/1953) worked in District General Hospitals. Few (5%) had access to an acute stroke unit, and a majority (51%) of consultants were uncertain of the benefits of such units. Less than half (44%) had access to a specialized stroke rehabilitation unit, but a majority (68%) were certain of the benefits of stroke rehabilitation units. Although a majority of consultants had on-site CT scanning, about a third of all UK stroke patients were admitted to a hospital without on-site CT facilities. Most (90%) consultants would want a CT scan themselves if they had a stroke. Only about a third of consultants were aware of a recent audit of stroke care in their hospital, or had a hospital policy for the implementation of minimum standards of stroke care, and less than half routinely provided written information for patients or carers. This survey illustrated that five years after the publication of the King's Fund consensus statement on the treatment of patients with acute stroke UK hospital stroke services are still poorly organized. Access to CT scanning for stroke patients is improving, but is still insufficient.
We set out to discover how satisfied patients and carers were with existing stroke services. We prospectively identified 164 consecutive patients admitted to a department of general medicine with acute stroke and collected data using a satisfaction questionnaire in a semi-structured interview. of the 110 (67%) survivors, 65 (59%) patients and 80 (73%) carers completed an interview. We also interviewed 34 bereaved carers. Most patients (97%), carers (92%) and bereaved carers (94%) were satisfied with care overall. However, 30 (46%) of our patients, 53 (66%) carers and 18 (53%) bereaved carers who were satisfied with care overall expressed dissatisfaction with at least one component. Carers of patients were significantly more dissatisfied than the patients themselves with the amount of information given and with social work intervention. Carers of patients who were unable to respond to the questionnaire themselves, usually because of cognitive difficulties, were the most dissatisfied group even when compared with bereaved carers. Measuring satisfaction can alert one to deficiencies within a service, aiding service development, but interpreting patients' and carers' overall satisfaction. Efforts to improve communication, discharge planning and follow-up, aimed at carers as well as the patients themselves, are likely to be rewarded with improved satisfaction with stroke services.
A method for determining regional cerebral utilization of ketone bodies in humans is described. After a bolus injection of R-beta-[1-11C]hydroxybutyrate, the time course of the tracer in the brain was measured with positron emission tomography in five healthy volunteers. The regional cerebral blood flow was measured separately. The tracer uptake in the brain could be well described by a single rate constant, indicating that the concentration of unmetabolized ketone bodies in the brain is very low and that transport across the blood-brain barrier is the rate-limiting step. At an average plasma concentration of beta-hydroxybutyrate of 0.043 mumol/ml, the utilization rate was estimated to be 0.48 nmol.ml-1.min-1. In accordance with previous animal studies, the utilization rate was found to increase almost linearly with increasing plasma concentration of beta-hydroxybutyrate. Furthermore, the utilization was higher in gray than in white matter. Finally, the ratio between the utilization in the basal ganglia and the brain as a whole was lower for ketone bodies than for glucose.


In the article, the author gives examples of some aspects of the development of neuroscience that may be of particular interest to the nonspecialist. In addition to the scientific discoveries involved, the examples illustrate how astute observations in the clinic can draw the attention of workers in the laboratory to significant new problems and how experiments in the laboratory can provide foundations for new clinical applications. These examples also illustrate general lessons that young investigators may find useful and point to the importance of facilitating communications among psychology's fragmenting specialties.
The vomeronasal organ and the olfactory bulb of the rat were cocultured from 15-day embryo siblings on collagen-coated membrane in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium containing fetal calf serum, horse serum, and antibiotics. At 4 days in vitro (DIV), vomeronasal axons forming two to three large fascicles were seen originating from the explants of the vomeronasal organ. Differential axonal growth was observed. Some fascicles made connections with the explants of the olfactory bulb. Twenty percent of the cocultures studied here showed the formation of connections. At 6-10 DIV many fascicles that did not connect with the olfactory bulb had degenerated, and large fascicles that were connected with the olfactory bulb survived for more than 10 DIV. The formation of connections between the vomeronasal organ and the olfactory bulb in coculture favors the survival of large nerve fascicles, but it could not be determined whether or not the presence of the olfactory bulb affects the initial orientation of the fibers and fascicles from the explants of the vomeronasal organ.
Acquired neuromyotonia is characterized by hyperexcitability of motor nerves leading to muscle twitching, cramps, and weakness. The symptoms may improve following plasma exchange, and injection of immunoglobulin G (IgG) from 1 neuromyotonia patient into mice increased the resistance of neuromuscular transmission to d-tubocurarine. Here we examine nerves and muscle in vitro from mice injected with plasma or purified IgG from 6 neuromyotonia patients or pooled control subjects, and cultured dorsal root ganglion cells after treatment with IgG. Three of the patients had antibodies against human voltage-gated potassium channels labeled with 125I-alpha-dendrotoxin. The quantal release of acetylcholine (quantal content) at end-plates in diaphragms from mice treated with neuromyotonia IgG preparations was increased by 21% relative to control values (p = 0.0053). With one IgG preparation, the duration of the superficial peroneal nerve compound action currents was increased by 93%. The dorsal root ganglion cells treated with this IgG showed a marked increase in repetitive firing of action potentials. All effects were similar to those obtained with aminopyridines. We conclude that at least some patients with acquired neuromyotonia have antibodies directed against aminopyridine- or alpha-dendrotoxin-sensitive K+ channels in motor and sensory neurons, and they are likely to be implicated in the disease process.
This investigation was carried out on 31 unemployed schizophrenic outpatient men. The general purpose was to explore new aspects of neurological soft signs in schizophrenia. A 108-item version of the Nathan Kline Institute scale of soft signs, the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia psychiatric interview, the negative and positive symptom scale (PANSS), a comprehensive scale of life-time history of violence, and a large set of neuropsychological tests were administered. It was found that &quot;motor&quot; soft signs were significantly more prevalent than &quot;sensory-perceptual&quot; signs, but that each body side manifested equal numbers of neurological signs. Before and after statistical correction for age, education, alcoholism, drug abuse disorder, and daily and cumulative neuroleptic dosage, orbitofrontal-type neuropsychological tasks measuring &quot;impulsivity&quot; related very robustly to the soft signs. Furthermore, before and after the same statistical corrections, right body-side signs correlated significantly with the same neuropsychological tests, whereas left body-side signs did not. The PANSS scores and levels of lifetime violence generally did not correlate significantly with neurological soft signs. The latter negative findings, we think relate to the fact that these were relatively high-functioning (i.e., outpatient) schizophrenics. Overall, the results support notions of frontal lobe and left hemisphere involvement in schizophrenia, these two dysfunctional systems being apparently linked at the level of the orbitofrontal area of the brain.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the occurrence of sleep complaints in an elderly population in relation to the sleep pattern in their parents. The study is based on a postal questionnaire, which was sent to 10,216 elderly persons in northern Sweden. The mean (s.d.) ages of the participating men and women were 73.0 (6.0) and 72.6 (6.7) years, respectively. Among the men whose parents had no sleep problems, a good night's sleep was reported by 11.1%, and among those whose parents both had such problems, this proportion was 18.9%. The corresponding figures for women were 20.6% and 60.0%, respectively. Restless sleep, frequent awakening, difficulty in getting to sleep again after waking up in the night as well as tiredness at night but with inability to get to sleep was more common in both sexes if either of the parents had difficulty in sleeping, and even more common if such problems had occurred in both parents. Also visits to doctors because of sleep problems and treatment with sleeping pills were more common in both men and women whose parents had had sleep problems, compared with those whose parents had been good sleepers. Thus, a poor sleep was more common in elderly persons if their parents had sleep problems, compared with those whose parents had been good sleepers. The results suggest that hereditary factors could be an underestimated cause of sleep disorders in the elderly.

A fundamental paradigm shift is underway in the behavioural neurosciences which promotes renewed discussion of neural correlates of conscious sensation. A growing body of evidence that the primary sensory areas are central to conscious processing is inconsistent with conventional bottom-up models of passive sensory transformation. The new paradigm emphasizes the interaction of top-down corticocortical influences with bottom-up sensory feedback. This review develops the new interactive paradigm with respect to the behaviourally relevant N1 component of the somatosensory evoked response in primary somatosensory neocortex which is only observed during conscious states and predicts touch discrimination behaviour. N1 is generated by layer I excitation apparently in response to backward projections from higher order cortical areas. The backward corticocortical projections mediating top-down influences are anatomically concentrated in layer I where they strongly excite the subpopulation of pyramidal neurons with extensive distal apical dendrites. This subpopulation includes the forward-projecting pyramids subserving corticocortical reentrance as well as the corticobulbar projections mediating cortical control over fine sensory-oriented movements. This interactive paradigm views conscious sensation as an active behaviour with the optimal spatial resolution of primary areas serving as the sensory-motor interface at the major convergence point between reentrant bottom-up and top-down pathways. A device is proposed for the reconstruction of cortical sensory processing based upon the central importance of the primary area as the focus of convergent top-down cortical projections.
It is commonly believed that learning is based on modifications of synaptic strength. Much of the evidence for this comes from the observation that blockade of processes necessary for induction of long-term potentiation in the hippocampus also blocks certain forms of learning. As such correlations may have many causes, an understanding of the mechanisms for memory formation might also profit from direct recording of cellular activity in learning tasks. Field potential recording represents one such approach. Although changes in field potentials are unlikely to uncover modifications in synaptic strength related to the storage of memory, any general facilitation (or reduction) of synaptic transmission taking place in populations of neurons during the acquisition stage might be picked up by a field measure. One problem related to the approach is that field potentials are heavily affected by non-learning factors. It is shown that field potentials in the hippocampus are highly sensitive to changes in brain temperature and that a significant part of the increase in field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (f-EPSPs) during learning reflects warming of the brain. Temperature-related changes in synaptic transmission do not affect the efficiency of spatial learning, as the acquisition of a water-maze task is equally efficient at low (30-32 degrees C) and high (37-39 degrees C) brain temperatures. Subtraction of the temperature component of the field potential alterations during learning in an exploration task shows that exploration is accompanied by a temperature-independent synaptic potentiation as well. Both the f-EPSP and the population spike are increased, and both decay gradually within 15-20 min. It is important to find out whether this potentiation reflects learning-related processes and whether such a potentiation is useful to the brain given the apparent 'noise' caused by temperature-related physiological changes.


Cyclic GMP (cGMP) is the intracellular messenger mediating phototransduction in retinal rods, with its longitudinal diffusion in the rod outer segment (ROS) likely to be a factor in determining light sensitivity. From the kinetics of cGMP-activated currents in the truncated ROS of the salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum), the cGMP diffusion coefficient was previously estimated to be approximately 60 x 10(-8) cm2 s-1. On the other hand, fluorescence measurements in intact salamander ROS using 8-(fluoresceinyl)thioguanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (Fl-cGMP) led to a diffusion coefficient for this compound of 1 x 10(-8) cm2 s-1; after corrections for differences in size and in binding to cellular components between cGMP and Fl-cGMP, this gave an upper limit of 11 x 10(-8) cm2 s-1 for the cGMP diffusion coefficient. To properly compare the two sets of measurements, we have examined the diffusion of Fl-cGMP in the truncated ROS. From the kinetics of Fl-cGMP-activated currents, we have obtained a diffusion coefficient of 3 x 10(-8) cm2 s-1 for this analog; the cGMP diffusion coefficient measured from the same truncated ROSs was approximately 80 x 10(-8) cm2 s-1. Thus, a factor of 27 appears appropriate for correcting differences in size and intracellular binding between cGMP and Fl-cGMP. Application of this correction factor to the Fl-cGMP diffusion coefficient measurements by Olson and Pugh (1993) gives a cGMP diffusion coefficient of approximately 30 x 10(-8) cm2 s-1, in reasonable agreement with the value measured from the truncated ROS.
We have examined the mechanisms underlying the voltage sensitivity of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptors in voltage-clamped outside-out patches and whole cells taken from the nucleus magnocellularis of the chick. Responses to either glutamate or kainate had outwardly rectifying current-voltage relations. The rate and extent of desensitization during prolonged exposure to agonist, and the rate of deactivation after brief exposure to agonist, decreased at positive potentials, suggesting that a kinetic transition was sensitive to membrane potential. Voltage dependence of the peak conductance and of the deactivation kinetics persisted when desensitization was reduced with aniracetam or blocked with cyclothiazide. Furthermore, the rate of recovery from desensitization to glutamate was not voltage dependent. Upon reduction of extracellular divalent cation concentration, kainate-evoked currents increased but preserved rectifying current-voltage relations. Rectification was strongest at lower kainate concentrations. Surprisingly, nonstationary variance analysis of desensitizing responses to glutamate or of the current deactivation after kainate removal revealed an increase in the mean single-channel conductance with more positive membrane potentials. These data indicate that the rectification of the peak response to a high agonist concentration reflects an increase in channel conductance, whereas rectification of steady-state current is dominated by voltage-sensitive channel kinetics.
In many types of eukaryotic cells, the activation of surface receptors leads to the production of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and calcium release from intracellular stores. Calcium release can occur in complex spatial patterns, including waves of release that traverse the cytoplasm. Fluorescence video microscopy was used to view calcium waves in single mouse neuroblastoma cells. The propagation of calcium waves was slowed by buffers that bind calcium quickly, such as BAPTA, but not by a buffer with slower on-rate, EGTA. This shows that a key feedback event in wave propagation is rapid diffusion of calcium occurring locally on a scale of &lt; 1 micron. The length-speed product of wavefronts was used to determine that calcium acting in feedback diffuses at nearly the rate expected for free diffusion in aqueous solution. In cytoplasm, which contains immobile Ca2+ buffers, this rate of diffusion occurs only in the first 0.2 ms after release, within 0.4 micron of a Ca2+ release channel mouth. Calcium diffusion from an open channel to neighboring release sites is, therefore, a rate-determining regenerative step in calcium wave propagation. The theoretical limitations of the wave front analysis are discussed.
1. Acute treatment with the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) produces cerebral oligaemia. The effects of repeated exposure to L-NAME upon cerebral blood flow were examined to determine whether the enhanced NOS inhibition reported following chronic treatment might reduce cerebral perfusion to ischaemic levels. 2. Rats were treated with L-NAME (75 mg kg-1, i.p.) once daily for 10 days. Local cerebral blood flow and glucose utilization were measured by [14C]-iodoantipyrine and [14C]-2-deoxyglucose quantitative autoradiography respectively, either 1 h or 15 h after the last injection. A second group of rats was injected (i.p.) only once with L-NAME, either 1 h or 15 h prior to the measurement procedures. 3. Mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) was significantly increased (+35%) 1 h after a single injection of L-NAME. Although the hypertension was reduced 15 h after the injection (+13%), MABP remained significantly higher than control. 4. Local cerebral blood flow was significantly decreased 1 h after a single injection of L-NAME (ranging from -45% to -54%), and remained so even after 15 h (-39% to -48%). At neither time-point was there any change in glucose utilization. 5. At 15 h after the final injection of the chronic L-NAME treatment protocol, MABP was significantly elevated from control (+58%) and was also significantly higher than at 1 h following a single injection (+20%). There was no effect upon the established hypertension when rats treated chronically with L-NAME were challenged with a further injection of the drug and MABP was measured 1 h later, suggesting saturation of NOS inhibition. 6. Although reduced, cerebral blood flow was not significantly different from control when measured 15 h after the last injection of the chronic L-NAME treatment. When rats treated chronically with L-NAME were subjected to a further challenge with the drug, cerebral blood flow was reduced when measured 1 h after the acute injection (ranging from -34% to -41%). There was however evidence of some attenuation in the response when compared to that measured 1 h after a single injection of L-NAME (ranging from -45% to -54%). Thus, the cerebral circulation shows no evidence of either sustained L-NAME-induced vasoconstriction or saturated NOS inhibition following 10 daily injections of L-NAME. Chronic L-NAME treatment had no effect upon cerebral glucose use. 7. The trend towards re-establishment of cerebrovascular dilator tone and the normalization of cerebral flow-metabolism relationships could explain the lack of any ischaemic damage found in chronically treated rats, but the loss of an extended autoregulatory range afforded by acute L-NAME treatment may be responsible for an increased incidence of stroke.
1. In order to investigate the functional interaction between adenosine receptors and G-proteins in native brain membranes, stimulation of high-affinity GTPase activity by adenosine receptor agonists was characterized in rat hippocampal membranes. 2. Addition of 1 microM R-N6-phenylisopropyladenosine (R-PIA), a selective A1 adenosine receptor agonist, augmented the Vmax of the low-KM GTPase by 51%, with a slight increase in the KM value. 3. Several adenosine receptor agonists stimulated the high-affinity GTPase activity in a concentration-dependent manner, with a rank order of potency indicative of the involvement of A1 adenosine receptor subtype as follows: R-PIA &gt; N6-cyclohexyladenosine &gt; 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine &gt; or = 2-chloroadenosine &gt; S-PIA &gt; CGS 21680, 2-phenylaminoadenosine. 4. The selective A1 adenosine receptor antagonist, 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine, inhibited R-PIA-stimulated high-affinity GTPase activity in a competitive manner, with a KB value of 2.5 nM. 5. The activating effects on high-affinity GTPase of R-PIA (via A1 adenosine receptors) and of 5-HT (via 5-HT1A receptors) were completely additive, indicating that A1 adenosine and 5-HT1A receptors were coupled to distinct pools of G-proteins in hippocampus. 6. Stimulation of high-affinity GTPase activity by adenosine receptor agonists can be used as a valuable measure for the investigation of the functional coupling between A1 adenosine receptors and G-proteins associated with adenylyl cyclase inhibition.
This study investigated the type of G-protein alpha subunit(s) that human neuropeptide Y (NPY)1 receptors preferentially utilize when activating G-protein gated K+ currents. Two electrode voltage-clamp recordings were made from Xenopus oocytes that had been injected with cDNAs encoding either human NPY1 or D2(short) dopamine receptors, and GIRK1 a cloned rat brain K+ channel. These receptors were also co-injected with G-protein alpha i1, alpha i2, alpha i3 and alpha o1 subunits to determine which subunit(s) modulate the efficiency of signal transduction. In NPY1 receptor injected cells neuropeptide Y (100 nM) caused a 53 +/- 10 nA inward current (n = 14; EC50 = 3 nM) and this effect was blocked by pertussis toxin (500 ng ml-1 24 h). Activation of GIRK1 currents by neuropeptide Y was selectively potentiated by alpha i1 subunit cDNA whereas coupling dopamine of D2 receptors to this channel was not.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has revolutionized the practical demands of clinical neurology. This technology promises now to advance neurology in theoretical and applied realms of fundamental human brain science. We emphasize here two domains in which these advances will occur. The first is volumetric morphometry of the human brain. With MRI the multiple levels of processing of the brain may be characterized in terms of their absolute volumes and their relative sizes, perspectives indispensable for our understanding of the development and operation of neural systems. Volumetric morphometry also promises substantial increases in the specificity and sensitivity of neurological diagnosis, particularly where applied to disorders where structural abnormalities will be reflected only in volumetric abnormalities. The second direction of advance considered here is application of MRI in cortical mapping in support of cognitive neuroscience. In this application MRI provides means to map at high resolution the distribution of subcomponents of neural systems activated by behavioral paradigms. This line of investigation will carry forward rapidly our understanding of how the information processing algorithms of the brain are mapped upon the coordinates of the various gray matter structures of the brain. Among the practical consequences of this application will be a reasoned design of surgical field in tumor and epilepsy surgery.
The cholinergic hypothesis claims that the decline in cognitive functions in dementia is predominantly related to a decrease in cholinergic neurotransmission. This hypothesis has led to great interest in the putative involvement of the cholinergic neurotransmission in learning and memory processes. This review aims to assess the data of studies in which the role of acetylcholine (ACh) in cognitive functions was investigated. For this purpose, studies from three different fields of research, namely: (1) behavioral pharmacology (effects of drugs on behavior); (2) behavioral neuroscience (effects of brain lesions on behavior); and (3) dementia, are discussed separately. The experimental tools that have been used in pharmacological studies may appear to be inadequate to enable conclusions to be drawn about the involvement of ACh in learning and memory processes. Especially, the use of scopolamine as a pharmacological tool is criticized. In the field of behavioral neuroscience a highly specific cholinergic toxin has been developed. It appears that the greater and more specific the cholinergic damage, the fewer effects can be observed at the behavioral level. The correlation between the decrease in cholinergic markers and the cognitive decline in dementia may not be as clearcut as has been assumed. The involvement of other neurotransmitter systems in cognitive functions is briefly discussed. Taking into account the results of the different fields of research, the notion that ACh plays a pivotal role in learning and memory processes seems to be overstated. Even when the role of other neurotransmitter systems in learning and memory is taken into consideration, it is unlikely that ACh has a specific role in these processes. On basis of the available data, ACh seems to be more specifically involved in attentional processes than in learning and memory processes.
A central problem in cognitive neuroscience is how animals can manage to rapidly master complex sensorimotor tasks when the only sensory feedback they use to improve their performance is a simple reinforcing stimulus. Neural network theorists have constructed algorithms for reinforcement learning that can be used to solve a variety of biological problems and do not violate basic neurophysiological principles, in contrast to the back-propagation algorithm. A key assumption in these models is the existence of a reinforcement signal, which would be diffusively broadcast throughout one or several brain areas engaged in learning. This signal is further assumed to mediate up- and downward changes in synaptic efficacy by acting as a multiplicative factor in learning rules. The biological plausibility of these algorithms has been defended by the conjecture that the neuromodulators noradrenaline, acetylcholine or dopamine may form the neurochemical substrate of reinforcement signals. In this commentary, the predictions raised by this hypothesis are compared to anatomical, electrophysiological and behavioural findings. The experimental evidence does not support, and often argues against, a general reinforcement-encoding function of these neuromodulatory systems. Nevertheless, the broader concept of evaluative signalling between brain structures implied in learning appears to be reasonable and the available algorithms may open new avenues for constructing more realistic network architectures.
Cell density has been implicated in the regulation of neuronal gene phenotype. This study tested the interaction of signal transduction pathways and the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA with varying cell density. Increasing cell density in a parental, wild type PC12 cell line elevated steady state levels of TH mRNA. Three observations suggested that this induction is not related to the cyclic AMP dependent signalling pathway: (1) Forskolin stimulated the level of TH mRNA similarly at multiple densities. (2) PKA deficient mutant PC12 cell lines that have either one third (A123.7, AB11) or 3% (A126-1B2) of normal basal expression of TH mRNA still exhibit the same density induced elevation of TH mRNA levels as the wild type. (3) Different cell densities did not change cyclic AMP concentrations in the basal or in the receptor stimulated state. Increasing cell density did not change basal levels of inositol triphosphate (IP3) levels, which suggests that the phosphatidylinositol cascade (PI) is not responsible for density dependent changes in TH expression. Increasing confluence was highly correlated to [Ca2+]i in control (r = 0.70; P &lt; 0.0001), A123.7 (r = 0.92; P &lt; 0.001), AB11 (r = 0.72; P &lt; 0.0001) and A126 (r = 0.42; P &lt; 0.07). Taken together, the results show that neither cyclic AMP nor the PI cascade is involved in cell density induced changes in TH mRNA and suggest that altered [Ca2+]i may have a role.


This article reviews recent evidence from animal experiments indicating that there is considerable potential for reorganization of representations and functions in in sensory and motor cortex following localized lesions or various manipulations of peripheral target structures. Three major mechanisms for this plastic reorganization are considered: unmasking of existing but functionally inactive pathways, sprouting of fibers from surviving neurons and formation of new synapses, and redundancy of CNS circuitry allowing alternative pathways to take over functions. Studies using positron emission tomography or transcranial magnetic stimulation suggest that similar forms of neuroplasticity may occur in the human brain and could contribute to functional recovery following stroke. The potential therapeutic implications are discussed.

Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) is the enzyme catalyzing the biosynthesis of acetylcholine and is considered to be a phenotypically specific marker for cholinergic neurons. We have examined the distribution of ChAT-expressing neurons in the larval nervous system of Drosophila melanogaster by three different but complementary techniques: in situ hybridization with a cRNA probe to ChAT messenger RNA, immunocytochemistry using a monoclonal anti-ChAT antibody, and X-gal staining of transformed animals carrying a reporter gene composed of 7.4 kb of 5' flanking DNA from the ChAT gene fused to a lacZ reporter gene. All three techniques demonstrated ChAT-expressing neurons in the larval visual system. In embryos, the photoreceptor organ (Bolwig's organ) exhibited strong cRNA hybridization signals. The optic lobe of late third-instar larvae displayed ChAT immunoreactivity in Bolwig's nerve and a neuron close to the insertion site of the optic stalk. This neuron's axon ran in parallel with Bolwig's nerve to the larval optic neuropil. This neuron is likely to be a first-order interneuron of the larval visual system. Expression of the lacZ reporter gene was also detected in Bolwig's organ and the neuron stained by anti-ChAT antibody. Our observations indicate that acetylcholine may be a neurotransmitter in the larval photoreceptor cells as well as in a first-order interneuron in the larval visual system of Drosophila melanogaster.
The prefrontal cortex of schizophrenics is hypoactive and displays changes related to inhibitory, GABAergic neurons, and GABAergic synapses. These changes include decreased levels of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the enzyme for GABA synthesis, upregulation of muscimol binding, and downregulation of benzodiazepine binding to GABAA receptors. Studies in the visual cortex of nonhuman primates have demonstrated that gene expression for GAD and for several GABAA receptor subunit polypeptides is under control of neuronal activity, raising the possibility that similar mechanisms in the hypoactive prefrontal cortex of schizophrenics may explain the abnormalities in GAD and in GABAA receptor regulation. In the present study, which is the first of its type on human cerebral cortex, levels of mRNAs for six GABAA receptor subunits (alpha 1, alpha 2, alpha 5, beta 1, beta 2, gamma 2) and their laminar expression patterns were analyzed in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenics and matched controls, using in situ hybridization histochemistry and densitometry. Three types of laminar expression pattern were observed: mRNAs for the alpha 1, beta 2, and gamma 2 subunits, which are the predominant receptor subunits expressed in the mature cortex, were expressed at comparatively high levels by cells of all six cortical layers, but most intensely by cells in lower layer III and layer IV. mRNAs for the alpha 2, alpha 5, and beta 1 subunits were expressed at lower levels; alpha 2 and beta 1 were expressed predominantly by cells in layers II, III, and IV; alpha 5 was expressed predominantly in layers IV, V, and VI. There were no significant changes in overall mRNA levels for any of the receptor subunits in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenics, and the laminar expression pattern of all six receptor subunit mRNAs did not differ between schizophrenics and controls. Because gene expression for GABAA receptor subunits is not consistently altered in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenics, the previously reported upregulation of muscimol binding sites and downregulation of benzodiazepine binding sites in the prefrontal and adjacent cingulate cortex of schizophrenics are possibly due to posttranscriptional modifications of mRNAs and their translated polypeptides.
A monoclonal antibody (mAb SP-1) labels subplate neurons of the cat visual cortex but does not stain the remnants of the subplate neuronal population that comprise the interstitial cells of adult cortical white matter. mAb SP-1 was shown previously to recognize a cytosolic polypeptide of 56 kDa (Naegele et al., 1991). We have now characterized the distribution of SP-1 immunoreactive neurons in the visual cortex and carried out additional biochemical studies at a range of postnatal ages in various tissues. Brain, liver and serum were found to contain the previously identified 56 kDa polypeptide. This polypeptide was also recognized by a cat immunoglobulin antiserum. The epitope recognized by mAb SP-1 was present on cat IgG Fc fragment but not cat IgG Fab fragment. By 4 weeks postnatal, levels of the 56 kDa antigen decreased in cortex and an additional higher molecular weight SP-1 reactive polypeptide of 75 kDa was detected. In the mature cortex, both polypeptides were absent from cytosolic fractions. Immunocytochemical staining comparing the distributions of SP-1 (SP-1+) and anti-IgG (Ig+) immunoreactive neurons showed complete colocalization in subplate neurons beneath primary visual cortex. By 4 weeks, some pyramidal neurons in cortical areas 17 and 18 were weakly positive for SP-1 but negative for IgG. At subsequent ages, the immunoreactive staining became progressively fainter until it was no longer detectable in white or gray matter of adult cat visual cortex.
Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a heterogeneous illness characterized by a high prevalence of psychiatric problems. We reasoned that we could reduce heterogeneity by excluding patients with psychiatric problems preceding CFS. We compared the functional status, mood, fatigue level, and psychiatric status of this more homogeneous group of CFS patients with the same parameters in patients with mild multiple sclerosis and in patients with major depression or dysthymia. Patients with CFS and those with multiple sclerosis were similar in terms of level of anger, severity of depression, level of anxiety, and frequency of current psychiatric diagnoses. Patients with CFS resembled depressed patients in having impaired vigor and experiencing substantial fatigue and confusion--problems constituting part of the case definition of CFS. The group with CFS was not psychologically vulnerable before the development of this condition and maintained adequate networks of social support despite disabling illness. Stratification to exclude patients with prior psychiatric disease and those with mild CFS allowed us to define a group of patients with CFS who more resembled patients with mild MS than patients with major depression or dysthymia and thus were more likely to have illness with an infectious or immunologic cause. Use of such a stratification strategy should prove important in testing of the viral/immunologic hypothesis of the etiology of CFS.
In the developing nervous system, the extracellular matrix provides a source of extrinsic cues to guide determination of cell fate, neuroblast migration, axon outgrowth and synapse formation. In the neural retina, undifferentiated neuroepithelial precursor cells contact extracellular matrix that contains multiple collagen types. Collagens have been shown to support retinal cell adhesion and neurite outgrowth, but the integrin receptors mediating neuronal responses are not understood. Here we provide evidence that integrin alpha 2 beta 1 acts as a collagen receptor in the developing avian retina and examine its expression pattern. Using a recently described monoclonal antibody, MEP-17, alpha 2 protein was detected in the developing retina by immunofluorescence in tissue sections and dissociated cells, and by immunoprecipitation. At embryonic day 4 (E4), when the majority of retinal cells are undifferentiated neuroepithelial cells, alpha 2 immunoreactivity in sections was widespread and about half of cells dissociated in culture were alpha 2 positive. At E6, after the retinal ganglion cell layer had differentiated, immunoreactivity in sections decreased in the central, more developed portion of the retina and 25% of dissociated cells were alpha 2 positive. E6 retinal ganglion cells, identified by neurofilament immunoreactivity, did not express detectable alpha 2 immunoreactivity. Immunoprecipitation experiments using E6 extracts demonstrated that the alpha 2 subunit was paired with the beta 1 integrin subunit. By E12, alpha 2 immunoreactivity in sections was confined to the extreme peripheral retina, although the antigen may be masked since expression levels comparable to or slightly higher than E6 could be detected in dissociated cells and extracts. By employing function blocking antibodies, it was shown that alpha 2 beta 1 integrin is necessary for cell adhesion and process outgrowth by embryonic retinal cells on collagens I and IV. Although alpha 2 expression continued through E12, alpha 2 activity was down regulated with increasing embryonic age, since alpha 2-dependent adhesion and outgrowth declined. These data suggest a role for alpha 2 beta 1 in neuroepithelial cell interactions with collagen rather than for axon extension by retinal ganglion cells.
Significant progress has been made towards understanding how pattern formation occurs in the imaginal discs that give rise to the limbs of Drosophila melanogaster. Here, we examine the process of regional specification that occurs in the eye-antennal discs, which form the head of the adult fruitfly. We demonstrate genetically that there is a graded requirement for the activity of the orthodenticle homeobox gene in forming specific structures of the developing head. Consistent with this result, we show that OTD protein is expressed in a graded fashion across the disc primordia of these structures and that different threshold levels of OTD are required for the formation of specific subdomains of the head. Finally, we provide evidence suggesting that otd acts through the segment polarity gene engrailed to specify medial head development.
Many clinical and research applications rely on detecting evoked potential (EP) signal or EP differences between conditions. Statistical methods for objective signal detection should be sensitive to the presence of signal, but must provide the user strict control on tolerated false alarm rate. The respective sensitivities of 6 signal detection methods were compared through several Monte Carlo simulations involving 2 autocorrelation structures, 5% and 1% significance levels, 8, 10 or 12 replications per study, and increasing signal to noise ratio. The signal detection methods compared were: (1) the Record Orthogonality Test by Permutations (ROT-p), a variant of the Residual Orthogonality Test (Achim et al., 1988), that provides an unbiased estimate of the energy of the signal present in the averaged data, (2) the Tsum2 permutation test of Karniski et al. (1994), (3) a Principal Component Analysis method (PC1) consisting of a t test on the weights of the first principal component, (4) multiple t tests on amplitudes with empirical adjustment for global false alarm rate, and (5-6) the test of Guthrie and Buchwald (1991) on length of consecutive t tests significant at P &lt; 0.05 or 0.01 per-test. The first 3 methods did not exceed their nominal false alarm rate and clearly outperformed the last 3, with the ROT-p method being significantly more sensitive than all others under almost all conditions.
-endorphin released by neurons in the arcuate nucleus affects the output of several neuroendocrine systems and estrogen levels modulate the production and secretion of -endorphin. We used intraperitoneal injection of fluorogold to retrogradely label the cell bodies of neurons that project outside the blood-brain-barrier in conjunction with immunohistochemistry for -endorphin to dual label the subpopulation of -endorphin neurons that project to the median eminence or other sites of access to the peripheral circulation. We found that some identified -endorphin neurons in the arcuate nucleus of ovariectomized guinea pigs sequestered fluorogold. Approximately 7% of -endorphin-containing cells co-localized with fluorogold. The effect of estrogen on the number of identified -endorphin cells was examined. A single estradiol benzoate injection to ovariectomized guinea pigs 24 h prior to sacrifice dramatically decreased the total number of -endorphin cells identified in the rostral, medial and the caudal portions of the arcuate nucleus. Also, a significantly smaller percentage of fluorogold-filled cells was found to contain -endorphin immunoreactivity in the estrogen-treated group. These data suggest that a subpopulation of -endorphin neurons has access to the peripheral circulation and may alter the output of neurosecretory terminals at the level of the median eminence. Furthermore, estrogen affects this subpopulation and the general population of -endorphin neurons in the arcuate nucleus in a similar manner.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been localized to noradrenergic neurons and both the noradrenergic system and NPY play a facilitatory role in the control of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) release. The present experiments examined whether NPY also plays a role in the control of lordosis. Adult female guinea pigs were ovariectomized (ovx) and implanted with a cannula into the lateral ventricle. In Experiment 1, intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of the NPY antagonist PYX2 (0, 0.5, 2.0 or 10.0 g) caused a dose-dependent decrease in lordosis behavior in ovx, estrogen and progesterone-primed guinea pigs. In addition to an effect on the mean lordosis response, PYX2 also decreased the percent of animals showing lordosis and the maximum lordosis response. In Experiment 2, NPY administration (25 g, ICV) 30 min after PYX2 (2 g, ICV) to ovx estrogen and progesterone-primed females significantly reversed the effect of the PYX2. Because the NPY antagonist PYX2 reversibly decreased lordosis behavior this suggests that NPY plays a facilitatory role in the control of lordosis behavior.
Administration of glucocorticoids decreases the release of corticotropin-releasing hormone and in vitro turnover of norepinephrine (NE) in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus, and immobilization (IMMO) markedly increases NE release and stimulates corticotropin-releasing hormone neurons in the PVN. This study assessed whether hypercortisolemia affects in vivo indexes of catecholaminergic activation in the PVN. Microdialysis was used to simultaneously measure PVN microdialysate concentrations of NE, the neuronal NE metabolite dihydroxyphenylglycol, the extraneuronal NE metabolite methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol, and the dopamine metabolite dihydroxyphenylacetic acid before, during, and after 2 h of IMMO. Catecholamine synthesis was examined based on elevations of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine levels after local perfusion with NSD-1015, an inhibitor of L-aromatic acid decarboxylase. Cortisol (CORT; 25 mg/kg.day) or vehicle (VEH; saline) was infused sc for 7 days via an osmotic minipump. CORT-treated rats had lower basal NE, dihydroxyphenylglycol, methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol, and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels and significantly smaller levels of all these compounds during IMMO than VEH-treated rats. CORT-treated rats also had less NSD-1015-induced accumulation of microdialysate 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine at baseline and during IMMO than VEH-treated rats. Basal and IMMO-induced plasma ACTH and corticosterone responses were reduced in CORT-treated rats. The results indicate that chronic hypercortisolemia decreases basal levels and stress-induced increments in indexes of release, metabolism, turnover, and synthesis of catecholamines in the PVN and suggest that glucocorticoids restrain the limit of hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical axis activation during stress by attenuating catecholamine synthesis and release in the PVN.
Methanol-powered vehicles are being introduced in the United States as a solution to air pollution. This study assessed whether acute exposure to methanol vapor at the current industrial threshold limit value of 200 ppm for 4 hr has adverse effects on human neurobehavioral performance. Twenty-six healthy subjects (15 men, 11 women; ages 26-51 years) were exposed to methanol or water vapor for 4 hr while seated in a chamber. The subjects served as their own controls in a randomized, double-blind study design. The variables assessed were serum and urine methanol and formate levels; visual performance (color discrimination and contrast sensitivity); and neurophysiological (auditory evoked potentials) and neurobehavioral performances. Exposure to methanol increased serum concentrations and urinary excretions of methanol, but did not affect formate levels. Overall visual, neurophysiological, and neurobehavioral test outcomes were not significantly affected, unless certain between-subject variables are considered. Slight effects on P-300 amplitude and Symbol Digit testing were noted. We conclude that acute exposure of healthy people to low concentrations of methanol had little effect on these measures of neurobehavioral performance.
Kindling of the cingulate cortex in the Senegalese baboon Papio papio led to a protracted nonconvulsive seizure state characterized by immobile staring with (anterior cingulate, AC) or without (posterior cingulate, PC) widening of eyelids and neck flexion, followed by postictal visual searching behavior. Despite early bilateral spread of EEG discharges, ictal and interictal patterns remained persistently asymmetric. Secondary generalization was rapid and predictable once contralateral lower facial twitching associated with sustained adversion developed. After the primary site had been kindled, stimulation of the contralateral homotopic posterior cingulate cortex readily produced afterdischarge. However, it remained localized and kindling growth did not occur. The findings suggest that (a) the cingulate cortex can support nonconvulsive seizures; (b) cingulate seizures are accompanied by asymmetric convexity EEG discharges indicating its lateralized onset; (c) further evolution to convulsive seizures after kindling of cingulate cortex requires access to the ipsilateral frontocentral cortex responsible for facial twitching; and (d) the development of focal epileptogenesis at one cingulate site interferes with clinical seizure development at the homotopic contralateral site.
Familial frontal epilepsy has been recently described in six pedigrees. All families reported show autosomal dominant inheritance with incomplete penetrance. Affected individuals develop predominantly nocturnal seizures with frontal lobe semiology. In 1959, a genetic mouse model for partial epilepsy, the El mouse, was reported. In the El mouse, a major seizure susceptibility gene, El-1, segregates in an autosomal dominant fashion and has been localized to a region distal to the centromere of mouse ch 9. Comparative genetic maps between man and mouse have been used to predict the location of several human disease genes. The El-1 locus in the mouse is homologous to human chromosomes 3p23-p21.2, 3p11.2-q11.2, 3q21-q25.3, 6p12-q12 and 15q24. Polymorphic microsatellite markers covering these candidate regions were used for genotyping individuals in the three larger families ascertained, one of which is French-Canadian and two are Australian. Significant negative two-point and multipoint lod scores were obtained separately for each family, thus excluding linkage with the candidate regions on chromosomes 3, 6 and 15.
Human fibroblasts cultured in an anchored collagen matrix reorganize the matrix and develop stress. Upon experimental release of the matrix, cells contract the matrix, a phenomenon that has been studied as an in vitro model of wound contraction. We have found that treatment of fibroblasts in stressed collagen matrices with vanadate and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) in serum-containing medium inhibits the ability of cells to contract the matrix. Vanadate/PDGF/serum stimulation did not block contraction immediately, but rather resulted in generation of an inhibitory signal that developed over a period of 80 min. The signal was highly specific since other factors such as lysophosphatidic acid and epidermal growth factor were unable to replace PDGF or serum. The presence of vanadate also blocked dephosphorylation of p-Tyr-PDGF receptors after PDGF/serum stimulation and caused accumulation of tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins in the cells. In parallel experiments, fibroblasts in monolayer culture were found to undergo reorganization of their actin cytoskeleton when treated with vanadate in the presence of PDGF and serum-containing medium. Our results suggest that a p-Tyr signaling pathway is important in the regulation of wound contraction.
Although previous work has demonstrated the usefulness of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for visualizing intraspinal transplants in vivo, the degree to which MRI can differentiate viable fetal neural tissue from evolving spinal cord pathology has not been investigated. Thus, the present study assessed whether MRI performed at earlier postgrafting intervals (0-20 weeks) could document the survival of fetal neural transplants in the injured cat spinal cord. Twelve adult female cats received a hemisection injury at the L1 level, followed immediately by implantation of either embryonic cat spinal cord or neocortex into the cavity. The spinal cords of three control animals were hemisected but received no transplant. Each animal was subsequently imaged at 4 and 8 weeks postoperative. Selected animals from each group were also studied at additional time points ranging from immediately postoperative to 20 weeks. Multislice T2-weighted and intermediate T1-weighted spin-echo images of the lesion or graft site were obtained. Correlative postmortem histological analyses revealed viable donor tissue in 6 of 12 transplant recipients. Spinal cords from the remaining hosts and the control animals all contained cysts at the surgical site that were devoid of donor neural tissue. The graft sites with viable tissue tended to exhibit a slightly hyperintense signal on both intermediate T1-weighted (T1WI) and T2-weighted images (T2WI) throughout the entire experiment. Control cats and cats with failed transplants also were slightly bright on T1WI, but were very hyperintense on T2WI.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Following injury to the adult CNS, the expression of a number of extracellular matrix molecules increases in regions of reactive gliosis. This glial matrix includes certain chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CS-PGs) which have been correlated with an inhibition of axon outgrowth. In order to test the influence of glial associated CS-PGs on neurite elongation directly, we sought to determine whether enzymatic modification of injury-induced CS-PGs could enhance neurite outgrowth across the surface of intact glial scars formed in vivo after implanting nitrocellulose filters into the cortex of adult rats. This gliotic tissue was subsequently explanted in vitro and used as a substrate for growing embryonic retinal neurons. Treatment of adult explants with chondroitinase ABC led to a significant increase in mean neurite length over the scar surface. Heparitinase treatment caused a much smaller, although significant, increase in neurite outgrowth. This suggested that more than one type of PG was present or that a single PG with both CS and HS side chains was upregulated. Western analysis revealed that a PG(s) with a core protein between 180 and 400 kDa was found to be relatively more abundant in areas of reactive gliosis induced to form in adult rather than neonatal animals. Simultaneous treatment of adult glial scars with chondroitinase and antibodies to the beta 1, beta 2 chain of laminin partially reversed the growth-enhancing effect of enzymatic digestion alone. These data demonstrate that the increase in neurite outgrowth along the surface of reactive astrocytes following enzymatic modification of injury-induced PGs was due, in part, to the presence of laminin. Thus, in this model of gliosis, particular PGs may act as inhibitors of neurite outgrowth by attenuating the potential for axon elongation that could occur due to the concomitant expression of growth-promoting molecules in regions of reactive gliosis.


Post-translational modifications to tubulin in the sensory and supporting cells of the cochlea were studied using antibodies specific to the tyrosinated, detyrosinated, acetylated and polyglutamylated isoforms. In the sensory cells, microtubules which label intensely with antibodies to tyrosinated tubulin are found in networks within the cytoplasm. Microtubules which label with antibodies to detyrosinated tubulin and polyglutamylated tubulin, but not acetylated tubulin, form a small component of the microtubules found in the cytoplasm only in the region below the cuticular plate. Microtubules in the supporting cells (inner and outer pillar cells and Deiters cells) are arranged in bundles and contain little tyrosinated tubulin. They are composed instead of predominantly post-translationally modified isoforms which include detyrosinated, acetylated and polyglutamylated tubulin. The findings suggest that microtubules in the sensory cells form dynamic structures, since microtubules that undergo cyclic polymerization and depolymerization predominantly contain tubulin that has not yet had its carboxy-terminal tyrosine residue removed. The presence of microtubules in the supporting cells in which the tubulin has been polymerized into microtubules long enough to be post-translationally modified, provides evidence that these microtubules are stable, long-lived and could contribute to the structural support of the sensory organ of Corti.
Whole mounts and tissue sections of the organ of Corti from two representative mammalian species, the Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus) and the guinea pig (Cavea porcellus) were probed with antibodies to cytoskeletal and calcium-binding proteins (actin, tubulin, including post-translational modifications, spectrin, fimbrin, calmodulin, parvalbumin, calbindin, S-100 and calretinin). All of the proteins tested were expressed in both species. New findings include the following. Actin is present in large accumulations in cell bodies of the Deiters cells under the outer hair cells (OHC), as well as in the filament networks previously described. These accumulations are more prominent in the apical turns. Tubulin is present in sensory cells in the tyrosinated (more dynamic) form, while tubulin in the supporting cells is post-translationally modified, indicating greater stability. Fimbrin, present in the stereocilia of both IHCs and OHCs, is similar to the isoform of fimbrin found in the epithelial cells of the intestine (fimbrin-I), which implies that actin bundling by fimbrin is reduced in the presence of increased calcium. Parvalbumin appears to be an IHC-specific calcium-binding protein in the gerbil as well as in the guinea pig; labeling displays a longitudinal gradient, with hair cells at the apex staining intensely and hair cells at the base staining weakly. Calbindin displays a similar longitudinal gradient, with staining intense in the IHCs and OHCs at the apex and weak to absent in the base. In the middle turns of the guinea pig cochlea, OHCs in the first row near the pillar cells lose immunoreactivity to calbindin before those in the second and third rows. Calmodulin is found throughout the whole cochlea in the IHCs and OHCs in the stereocilia, cuticular plate, and cell body. Calretinin is present in IHCs and Deiters cells in both species, as well as the tectal cell (modified Hensen cell) in the gerbil. S-100 is a supporting cell-specific calcium-binding protein which has not been localized in the sensory cells of these two species. The supporting cells containing S-100 include the inner border, inner phalangeal, pillar, Deiters, tectal (in gerbil) and Hensen cells, where labeling displays a longitudinal gradient decreasing in intensity towards the apex (opposite to what has been seen with labeling for other proteins in the cochlea).
Repeated positron emission tomography (PET) measurements of D2 receptor occupancy, plasma concentrations of zuclopenthixol and reaction time were performed in three healthy subjects after injection of 12.5 mg zuclopenthixol acetate (ZPTA) in an open study design. Five control subjects were examined for reaction time only. D2 receptor occupancy was 51%, 71% and 75% after 7 h and 75%, 83% and 87% after 31 h in the three subjects. The subjects reported sedation, but reaction time was not prolonged. After the low dose of 12.5 mg ZPTA, D2 receptor occupancy exceeded the 70% assumed to be required to induce antipsychotic effect. Extrapolation of data to a clinical dose interval indicates that 50-150 mg ZPTA should induce very high D2 receptor occupancy lasting several days after injection. Such high doses may be required to induce sedation and to avoid frequent intramuscular injections in acutely psychotic patients. However, the simultaneously induced very high D2 receptor occupancy calls for careful assessment of acute extrapyramidal symptoms.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a putative autoimmune disease that is linked with HLA-DR2,w15. Proteolipid protein (PLP) is a candidate autoantigen in MS, but the disease-associated epitopes have not been determined. Using overlapping and non-overlapping PLP peptides, we have studied the T cell response to the major hydrophilic domain PLP 85-159 in the peripheral blood of MS and healthy subjects (HS). Short-term T cell lines (TCL) were selected against each peptide using microwell plates and the frequency of peptide-specific TCL was estimated. PLP 95-116-specific TCL were most efficiently generated and the frequency was significantly higher in MS compared with HS (P &lt; 0.05). When compared between DR2,w15+ and DR2,w15- MS, TCL frequency to PLP 95-116 was significantly higher in DR2,w15+ MS (P &lt; 0.005) and TCL reactive to the overlapping peptide 105-124 were also increased in DR2,w15+ MS (P &lt; 0.025). Using DR gene-transfected L cells, we could show that the DRB1*1501 product of the DR2 haplotype presents PLP 95-116 to TCL selected against the peptide. These results imply that PLP 95-116 represents a major epitope for the DR2,w15+ MS.
Neurotransmitters such as acetylcholine can control neuritogenesis of hippocampal cells. The timing of its receptors expression consequently may influence synaptogenesis and neuronal activity in the developing hippocampus. We investigated the mRNA expression of the nicotinic acetylcholine-gated ion channel receptor (nAChR) alpha 4 subunit in the embryonic and postnatal hippocampal formation. Although its expression level is low in the adult hippocampus, this protein constitutes the major nAChR subunit in the central nervous system. We carried out in-situ hybridization experiments to determine whether or not the alpha 4 AChR subunit mRNA distributions show evidence of regional and developmental regulation during hippocampal maturation. Our studies reveal that alpha 4 AChR mRNA expression was low at the embryonic stage, but increased transiently during postnatal development reaching a maximum during the second week of life and decreasing thereafter, to a minimum at adulthood. In hippocampal regions, the peak values of alpha 4 AChR expression were between 400 and 800% of adult alpha 4 messenger levels. In the postnatal hippocampus, most of the cells from the pyramidal layer of the CA3 and CA2 areas displayed a strong hybridization signal for the alpha 4 AChR subunit. In the hilus and the CA1 regions, the localization of the alpha 4 transcripts seemed to be restricted to some interneurons and pyramidal cells, respectively. Moderate and uniform in-situ hybridization signals were observed in granular cells from the dentate gyrus. The transient profile of alpha 4 expression suggests that nAChRs may participate in the early postnatal maturation of hippocampal circuity.


Vasoconstrictor responses to endothelin-1 (ET-1) and the ETB receptor agonist sarafotoxin S6c (SXS6c) were investigated in the main pulmonary artery and pulmonary artery branch removed from rats previously exposed to 10% O2 [chronic hypoxic (CH) rats] or room air (control rats) for 2 weeks. The effects of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibition with L-Nomega-nitroarginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (100 microM) on ET receptor-induced responses in these arteries were also investigated. In control rats, in rings of main pulmonary arteries and pulmonary artery branches. ET-1 induced vasoconstrictor responses. These responses were mediated by the ETA receptor as they were antagonized by the ETA receptor antagonist FR 139317 whereas SXS6c did not vasoconstrict. Chronic hypoxia had no effect on the sensitivity of the main pulmonary arteries to ET-1, whereas small vasoconstrictor responses to SCS6c were evident. ET-1 was more potent in the CH rat pulmonary artery branches than in controls. SXS6c also caused vasoconstriction with a maximum response 30% of that to ET-1 in both endothelium-intact and endothelium-denuded vessels. L-NAME increased the sensitivity to ET-1 in the CH rat main pulmonary arteries and increased the responses to low concentrations of ET-1 in the control rat main pulmonary arteries but did not affect any ET-1 responses in any other vessels. It did disclose responses to SXS6c in control rat main pulmonary arteries. L-NAME itself increased vascular tone to a greater extent in CH rat pulmonary arteries than in controls. In preconstricted pulmonary arteries, however, relaxations to acetylcholine (ACh) were diminished in the CH rats as compared with their controls. All pulmonary artery branches, denuded of their vascular endothelium, relaxed to sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and therefore exhibited endogenous vascular tone. This effect was greatest in the pulmonary artery branches from the CH rats. The results suggest that rat large pulmonary artery responses to ET-1 are normally mediated by ETA receptors. Pulmonary hypertension can potentiate ETA receptor-mediated vasoconstriction and facilitate ETB receptor-mediated vasoconstriction. Endogenous NO may normally suppress ETA receptor-mediated responses in rat main pulmonary arteries. Rat pulmonary arteries exhibit endogenous tone, which is increased by exposure to chronic hypoxia.
We examined responses to the 5-hydroxytryptamine 1D (5-HT1D)-receptor agonist sumatriptan in bovine pulmonary artery rings (2-3 mm ID). The effects of agonist-induced tone and agents that alter intracellular cyclic AMP [cyclic AMP]i or [cyclic GMP]i on responses to sumatriptan were investigated. At resting tension, responses to sumatriptan were slight or not evident. In the presence of tone induced by U46619, responses to sumatriptan (1 nM-30 mM) were greatly potentiated, as were responses to the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist UK14304. Responses to the alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine (PE) were potentiated only slightly. In the presence of U46619, addition of the adenylyl cyclase activator, forskolin (1 nM-0.1 microM or isoprenaline (ISO 1 microM) induced relaxations and increases in [cyclic AMP]i and resulted in further potentiation of the contractile response to sumatriptan. Addition of 0.1 microM sodium nitroprusside (SNP) inhibited sumatriptan-induced contractions. Whereas sumatriptan alone did not significantly affect [cyclic AMP]i, in the presence of U46619 it decreased [cyclic AMP]i. This effect of sumatriptan was further enhanced in the presence of forskolin. Sumatriptan increased [cyclic GMP]i. Using a nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor and vessels denuded of endothelium, we showed that the increased [cyclic GMP]i in response to sumatriptan was endothelium-dependent and mediated by NO. This increase in [cyclic GMP]i was not observed in the presence of U46619. By measuring cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase (PDE) levels, we demonstrated that the point of &quot;cross-talk&quot; between cyclic nucleotides may not be at the level of total PDE activity. These results highlight the important role of [cyclic AMP], [cyclic GMP]i, and endothelium function in the control of 5-HT1D receptor-mediated vasoconstriction, which is dependent on a decrease in [cyclic AMP]i in the absence of an increase in [cyclic GMP]i.
Caveolae undergo a cyclic transition from a flat segment of membrane to a vesicle that then returns to the cell surface. Here we present evidence that this cycle depends on a population of protein kinase C-alpha (PKC-alpha) molecules that reside in the caveolae membrane where they phosphorylate a 90-kD protein. This cycle can be interrupted by treatment of the cells with phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate or agents that raise the concentration of diacylglycerol in the cell. Each of these conditions displaces PKC-alpha from caveolae, inhibits the phosphorylation of the 90-kD protein, and prevents internalization. Caveolae also contain a protein phosphatase that dephosphorylates the 90-kD once PKC-alpha is gone. A similar dissociation of PKC-alpha from caveolae and inhibition of invagination was observed when cells were treated with histamine. This effect was blocked by pyrilamine but not cimetidine, indicating the involvement of histamine H1 receptors. These findings suggest that the caveolae internalization cycle is hormonally regulated.
A recent review of the Continuous Performance Task (CPT) as a research tool by Corkum and Siegel, Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 34, 1217-1239, 1993, is criticized for insufficient covering of the relevant literature, disregard of the question of differentiation among clinical groups, and inadequacy of explanations of Attention-Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in terms of arousal, activation, and effort. An attention-deficit in ADHD children cannot be inferred from poor performance on a CPT. Impaired performance is anything but specific to ADHD children and is caused by a host of variables among which &quot;attention&quot; probably plays a minor role.
During metamorphosis, the lateral line system of ranid frogs (Rana catesbeiana) degenerates and an auditory system sensitive to airborne sounds develops. We examined the onset of function and developmental changes in the central auditory system by recording multi-unit activity from the principal nucleus of the torus semicircularis (TSp) of bullfrogs at different postmetamorphic stages in response to tympanically-presented auditory stimuli. No responses were recorded to stimuli of up to 95 dB SPL from late-metamorphic tadpoles, but auditory responses were recorded within 24 hours of completion of metamorphosis. Audiograms from froglets (SVL &lt; 5.5 cm) were relatively flat in shape with high thresholds, and showed a decrease in most sensitive frequency (MSF) from about 2500 Hz to about 1500 Hz throughout the first 7-10 days after completion of metamorphosis. Audiograms from frogs larger than 5.5 cm showed continuous downward shifts in MSF and thresholds, and increases in sharpness around MSF until reaching adult-like values. Spontaneous activity in the TSp increased throughout postmetamorphic development. The torus increased in volume by approximately 50% throughout development and displayed changes in cell density and nuclear organization. These observations suggest that the onset of sensitivity to tympanically presented airborne sounds is limited by peripheral, rather than central, auditory maturation.
Opiomelanocortins are formed after cleavage of the larger precursor molecule, proopiomelanocortin (POMC), which contains several peptide residues, sharing certain amino acid homology, including adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) and alpha-, beta- and gamma-melanocyte stimulating hormone (MSH). The expressions of alpha-, beta- and gamma 3-MSH in human cutaneous malignant melanoma of nodular type are demonstrated. For the MSHs, the immunolabelling was concentrated mostly in the tumour cellular cytoplasm, with occasional cells displaying a nuclear staining. Labelled tumour cells were dispersed throughout the epidermis and dermis as individual cells or in so-called 'pearl-like nests', most of which consisted mainly of round or oval shaped cells as well as a few pleomorphic or spindle-shaped cells. The fluorescence intensity seemed to increase in accordance with the development of the tumours. All cases examined were clearly stained with protein S-100, which provided us with a definite diagnosis. Considering the overall MSHs-related staining intensity of each section, the general perception we got was that the closer to the centre of the tumour parenchyma, the stronger was the staining and, furthermore the larger/more poorly differentiated the cells, the stronger was the staining. We also found the MSHs expressions to appear in the peripheral part of the tumour and the perilesional tissues including epidermis, sweat glands, sebaceous glands as well as hair follicles. Neurohypertrophic features were encountered including increases in both the number of nerve fibres and their diameter. Our results presented here strongly support the viewpoint earlier proposed that MSH peptides, by an autocrine and/or paracrine production from melanoma cells, are engaged in the regulation of melanogenesis, growth and proliferation of the tumour cells. We also conclude that, although alpha-, beta- and gamma 3-MSH peptides do not provide as high a sensitivity for diagnosis as protein S-100, they appear as useful markers for supportive diagnosis and assessment of malignant melanoma.
We have used the truncated outer segment preparation to measure rod cGMP-phosphodiesterase activity, as well as its modulation by Ca2+, in darkness and in light. The basal enzyme activity in darkness was approximately 0-3 s-1, and was largely independent of Ca2+ concentration from 10 nM to 10 microM. The steady state activity elicited by a step of light (lambda = 520 nm) was strongly enhanced by Ca2+, increasing from approximately 0.005 s-1/(h nu micron-2 s-1) at 10 nM Ca2+ to approximately 0.16 s-1/h nu micron-2 s-1) at 10 microM Ca2+. Based on these measurements, as well as previous measurements on the effects of Ca2+ on rod guanylate cyclase and the cGMP-gated channel, we have calculated the step response-intensity relation for the rod cell in steady state. This relation agrees reasonably well with the relation directly measured from intact rods. We have also evaluated the relative contributions from the three Ca2+ effects to rod sensitivity. At low background light intensities, the Ca2+ modulation of the guanylate cyclase appears to be the most important for sensitivity regulation. At higher light intensities, especially above half-saturation of the response, the Ca2+ modulation of the light-stimulated phosphodiesterase shows a progressively important influence on the light response; it also extends the Weber-Fechner behavior of the cell to higher intensities. The contribution of the Ca2+ modulation of the cGMP-gated channel is slight throughout.
cGMP mediates vertebrate phototransduction by directly gating cationic channels on the plasma membrane of the photoreceptor outer segment. This second messenger is produced by a guanylate cyclase and hydrolyzed by a light-activated cGMP-phosphodiesterase. Both of these enzyme activities are Ca2+ sensitive, the guanylate cyclase activity being inhibited and the light-activated phosphodiesterase being enhanced by Ca2+. Changes in these activities due to a light-induced decrease in intracellular Ca2+ are involved in the adaptation of photoreceptors to background light. We describe here experiments to characterize the guanylate cyclase activity and its modulation by Ca2+ using a truncated rod outer segment preparation, in order to evaluate the enzyme's role in light adaptation. The outer segment of a tiger salamander rod was drawn into a suction pipette to allow recording of membrane current, and the remainder of the cell was sheared off with a probe to allow internal dialysis. The cGMP-gated channels on the surface membrane were used to monitor conversion of GTP, supplied from the bath, into cGMP by the guanylate cyclase in the outer segment. At nominal 0 Ca2+, the cyclase activity had a Km of 250 microM MgGTP and a Vmax of 25 microM cGMP s-1 in the presence of 1.6 mM free Mg2+; in the presence of 0.5 mM free Mg2+, the Km was 310 microM MgGTP and the Vmax was 17 microM cGMP s-1. The stimulation by Mg2+ had an EC50 of 0.2 mM Mg2+ for MgGTP at 0.5 mM. Ca2+ inhibited the cyclase activity. In a K+ intracellular solution, with 0.5 mM free Mg2+ and 2.0 mM GTP, the cyclase activity was 13 microM cGMP s-1 at nominal 0 Ca2+; Ca2+ decreased this activity with a IC50 of approximately 90 nM and a Hill coefficient of approximately 2.0.
Anterior pituitary cells were cultured for 2 days from 6-, 14-, and 23-25-month-old C57BL/6NNia mice. The cells were then stimulated with one of three biotinylated GnRHs [biotinyl-Lys6]-[D-Lys6]GnRH, [biotinyl-Ser4]-[D-Lys6]GnRH, [biotinyl-Ser4]-[D-Trp6, des-Gly10]GnRH) at 4 degrees C for 1 h. Some of these cells were processed unfixed, attaching avidin-fluorescein and examined with fluorescent microscopy. Other cells were fixed and the biotinylated GnRH coupled to avidin-gold (20 nm particles), which was subsequently silver-enhanced (70 nm particles) and examined with light and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). To enhance the location of receptor sites for quantitation, a back-scattering electron detector was employed with the SEM. Gonadotropes from all three age groups ranged in size from 3 to 13 microns in diameter. The largest gonadotropes in each age group displayed the highest number of GnRH receptors, but the concentration/surface area (microns2) was less than for smaller cells. Smaller gonadotropes (3-6 microns diameter) from 14- and 23-25-month-old mice contained more GnRH receptor sites/microns2 (p &lt; .001) than those from 6-month-old mice; the percentage of these gonadotropes was markedly higher for 14-(65%) and 25-(52%) versus 6-month-old (5%) mice. The number of receptor sites in larger gonadotropes (6.1-13 microns diameter) did not decline with the increasing age of the mouse. Decreased secretory activity in gonadotropes of 25-month-old mice may result from age-related changes in pituitary peptide processing or release, but it is not due to a lack of GnRH receptors or the inability of GnRH to bind to its receptor site.
In situ end-labeling (ISEL) identifies DNA fragmentation in apoptotic or necrotic nuclei in tissue sections. However, application of ISEL on human brain requires conservation of DNA integrity during the postmortem delay (PMD) and good accessibility of fragmented DNA after (prolonged) tissue fixation. We therefore investigated ISEL in relation to PMD and fixation in rat and human brain. Application on a unilateral lesion model in perfused rat brain revealed that prolonged post-fixation strongly diminished ISEL results. However, microwave pre-treatment can counteract these masking effects without inducing nonspecific labeling contralaterally. On the other hand, in briefly post-fixed, perfused brain or immersion-fixed rat and human PMD brain, microwave pre-treatment was deleterious and induced strong nonspecific labeling. In young rat brain, PMD did not influence the low numbers of apoptotic nuclei until 24 hr PMD, when massive nuclear labeling occurred. In human cortex, DNA fragmentation patterns were independent of duration of fixation or PMD and were already present from 4.25 hr PMD onwards. Our data suggest that ISEL on human brain represents antemortem DNA damage rather than PMD artifacts. Furthermore, microwave pre-treatment appears beneficial only in particular fixation conditions.

A simple chemical procedure for synthesis of 1-O-alkyl-(rac or sn)-glycero-3-phosphocholine (alkyl analog of lysophosphatidylcholine, II) and platelet activating factor (PAF), 1-O-alkyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (III) has been described. The key step of the method is the decomposition of 1-O-hexadecyl-3-diazohydroxyacetone (A. K. Hajra, T. V. Saraswathi and A. K. Das, 1983. Chem. Phys. Lipids. 33: 179-193) with phosphocholine to synthesize 1-O-hexadecyl dihydroxyacetone-3-phosphocholine (I). Conditions for this phosphorolysis were studied with respect to the reaction medium, temperature, and optimum proportion of the reactants. Compound (I) was quantitatively reduced with NaBH4 to synthesize (II) which was acetylated to prepare compound (III). Phospholipase A2 hydrolysis of compound (III) followed by separation of the products afforded the unreacted sn-3-hexadecyl isomer (III) and sn-1-hexadecyl isomer (II) which was acetylated to PAF. The structures of the compounds were verified by NMR and FAB-MS spectra, and their biological activities were determined by measuring the release of serotonin from rabbit blood platelets in response to different doses of these compounds. The suitability of the method as a general technique for synthesis of different ether phosphoglycerides is discussed.
We have established a primary culture system for Drosophila eye imaginal discs. With this system, we were able to obtain neurite outgrowth from intact eye discs, eye disc fragments, and dissociated eye imaginal disc cells. Immunoreactivity to antibody 24B10 indicates that these extending neurites are photoreceptor axons. Three culture media were tested for their ability to support the survival of and neurite extension from eye disc fragments in vitro at 23 degrees C. These, with supplements, were: five parts of Schneider's Drosophila medium with four parts of basal Eagle's medium (&quot;4 + 5&quot;); Leibovitz's L-15 medium (L-15); and Shields and Sang's M3 modified medium (MM3). We obtained the best results with MM3 supplemented with 2% fetal bovine serum (FBS). Eye disc fragments survived in this medium for at least 20 days. Pigmentation in the nonphotoreceptor pigment cells in cultures from the prepupa required the presence of 20-hydroxyecdysone (20-HE) (1 micrograms/ml), whereas neurite outgrowth was seen in the absence of 20-HE. Donor animals had to fall within a range of ages to obtain appropriate eye disc differentiation in vitro. Eye disc from 5-h pupae (P + 5) or older commenced ommachrome synthesis in vitro in a temporal sequence close to that found in vivo, whereas the in vitro synthesis of this pigment was delayed in eye discs from younger flies. Average neurite length was not affected by age among pupae younger than P + 5; but neurite outgrowth from P + 24 was scarce, probably because by this time photoreceptor axons had already grown in vivo and were severed and unable to regenerate in vitro. Eye discs taken from third instar larvae or white prepupae continued their mitotic activity in vitro. Together with the advance of the morphogenetic furrow at the leading edge of retinal development, this observation is consistent with the evidence that pattern formation continues in vitro. Morphogenetic changes were manifested in cultures. Viability tests with calcein AM and ethidium bromide revealed few dead cells in living cultures.
The ability of neurotrophin-4/5 (NT-4/5), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), and nerve growth factor (NGF) to promote survival of postnatal rat vestibular ganglion neurons (VGNs) was examined in dissociated cell cultures. Of the four neurotrophins, NT-4/5 and BDNF were equally effective but more potent than NT-3 in promoting the survival of VGNs. In contrast, NGF showed no detectable effects. As expected, TrkB-IgG (a fusion protein of extracellular domain of TrkB and Fc domain of human immunoglobulin G) specifically inhibited the survival-promoting, effects by NT-4/5 or BDNF and TrkC-IgG fusion protein completely blocked that of NT-3. Immunohistochemistry with TrkB, TrkA, and p75 antisera revealed that VGNs made TrkB and p75 proteins, but not TrkA protein. Ototoxic therapeutic drugs such as cisplatin and gentamicin often induce degeneration of hair cells and ganglion neurons in both auditory and vestibular systems that leads to impairment of hearing and balance. When cisplatin and gentamicin were added to the dissociated VGN culture in which the hair cells were absent, additional cell death of VGNs was induced, suggesting that the two ototoxins may have a direct neurotoxic effect on ganglion neurons in addition to their known toxicity on hair cells. However, if the cultures were co-treated with neurotrophins, NT-4/5, BDNF, and NT-3, but not NGF, prevented or reduced the neurotoxicity of the two ototoxins. Thus, the three neurotrophins are survival factors for VGNs and are implicated in the therapeutic prevention of VGN loss caused by injury and ototoxins.
In vivo rates of palmitate incorporation into brain phospholipids were measured in awake rats following programmed intravenous infusion of unesterified [9,10-3H]palmitate to maintain constant plasma specific activity. Animals were killed after 2-10 min of infusion by microwave irradiation and analyzed for tracer distribution in brain phospholipid and phospholipid precursor, i.e., brain unesterified palmitate and palmitoyl-CoA, pools. [9,10-3H]Palmitate incorporation into brain phospholipids was linear with time and rapid, with &gt; 50% of brain tracer in choline-containing glycerophospholipids at 2 min of infusion. However, tracer specific activity in brain phospholipid precursor pools was low and averaged only 1.6-1.8% of plasma unesterified palmitate specific activity. Correction for brain palmitoyl-CoA specific activity increased the calculated rate of palmitate incorporation into brain phospholipids (0.52 nmol/s/g) by approximately 60-fold. The results suggest that palmitate incorporation and turnover in brain phospholipids are far more rapid than generally assumed and that this rapid turnover dilutes tracer specific activity in brain palmitoyl-CoA pool owing to release and recycling of unlabeled fatty acid from phospholipid breakdown.
The powerful regulatory machinery of protein phosphorylation operates in the extracellular environment of the brain. Enzymatic activity with the catalytic specificity of protein kinase C (PKC) was detected on the surface of brain neurons, where it can serve as a direct target for neurotrophic and neurotoxic substances that control neuronal development and cause neurodegeneration. This activity fulfilled all the criteria required of an ecto-protein kinase (ecto-PK). Detailed analysis of surface protein phosphorylation in cultured brain neurons using specific exogenous substrates (casein, histones, and myelin basic protein), inhibitors (PKC-pseudosubstrate 19-36; K252b) and antibodies (anti-PKC catalytic region M.Ab.1.9, antibodies to the carboxy-terminus of eight PKC isozymes) revealed several types of ecto-PK activity, among them ecto-PKs with catalytic specificity of the PKC isozymes zeta and delta. The activity of the neuronal ecto-PKC is constitutive and not stimulated by phorbol esters. the phosphorylation of a 12K/13K surface protein duplex by ecto-PKC-delta was found to be developmentally regulated, with peak activity occurring during the onset of neuritogenesis. Alzheimer's amyloid peptides beta 1-40 and beta 25-35 applied at neurotrophic concentrations stimulated the phosphorylation of endogenous substrates of ecto-PKC activity in brain neurons but inhibited specifically this surface phosphorylation activity with the same dose-response relationships that cause neurodegeneration. As may be expected from a relevant pathophysiological activity, beta-amyloid peptide 1-28 did not inhibit this surface phosphorylation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Syntaxin, a protein required for the docking of synaptic vesicles, may be involved in the manifestation of synaptic plasticity. The possible involvement of syntaxin in epileptogenesis was investigated by assessing the expression levels of syntaxin1B/GR33 mRNA by in situ hybridization at different stages of hippocampal kindling epileptogenesis and after the induction of generalized seizures. Densitometric analysis of the autoradiograms revealed that the expression was not changed in pyramidal and granular neurons of the hippocampal formation 24 h after the first kindling stimulation. However, the mRNA levels in CA1, CA3, and fascia dentata neurons were bilaterally enhanced after six afterdischarges and remained at this elevated level during the whole period along which afterdischarges were elicited. An immunoassay was unable to reveal a clear significant increase of syntaxin1B/GR33 protein levels in hippocampus homogenates of fully kindled animals. The use of syntaxin1B-specific antibodies is necessary to draw definite conclusions on the changes at the protein level. At long term, 4 weeks after the last kindling-elicited generalized seizure, no significant alterations in transcript levels could be detected. The results suggest that the induction of kindling epileptogenesis is associated with an enhanced expression of syntaxin1B/GR33, but this enhanced expression is not necessary for persistence of kindling-induced synaptic plasticity.
In the molecular layer of the mouse cerebellum, the histochemical activity of the adenosine-producing ectoenzyme 5'-nucleotidase discloses a parasagittal pattern of alternating enzyme-rich and enzyme-poor bands. In the rat, 5'-nucleotidase activity transiently labels cerebellar synapses during postnatal development and shifts later on towards an exclusive glial location in the molecular layer. We therefore asked whether different ultrastructural expression of 5'-nucleotidase would account for the light microscopic pattern seen in the adult mouse cerebellum. Using an enzyme cytochemical method, we localized 5'-nucleotidase activity on the glial cells and at the main types of asymmetrical synapses in the developing and mature cerebellum of the mouse. The percentage of labelled synapses increased until adulthood within the 5'-nucleotidase-positive bands. Here, the vast majority (86%) of the synapses were labelled against only 27% within the negative bands in the adult. Thus, 5'-nucleotidase appears as a marker of glia and of Purkinje cell synapses across cerebellar compartments. Changes in purinergic neuromodulation and/or cell adhesion mediated by 5'-nucleotidase across bands might participate in the functional differentiation of the cerebellar parasagittal subsets.
O1 hybridoma cells, which produce a monoclonal IgM antigalactocerebroside, were implanted into the spinal cords of immature and mature rats and the cords examined 5-24 days later. Study of the younger group, in which myelin was developing at the time of implantation, revealed examples of abnormal myelin sheaths in which the repeat period was markedly increased. The paranodal regions of these abnormal sheaths were superficially normal in configuration; i.e. myelin lamellae terminated one by one as 'terminal loops' that indented the axolemma and formed normal axoglial junctions displaying periodic 'transverse bands'. Neighbouring terminal loops are normally joined by tight junctions that block passage of tracers from the paranodal periaxonal space into the compact myelin, as seen after implantation of a control hybridoma. In the abnormal sheaths that developed after O1 implantation, in contrast, terminal loops were usually widely separated from each other. As a result, multiple pathways from the paranodal periaxonal space into the myelin sheath remained patent, forming potential routes for shunting nodal action currents. This subtle abnormality could thus compromise conduction, even though the sheaths might appear to be normally myelinated at the histological level. Equivalent abnormalities in human neurological diseases, including multiple sclerosis and paraproteinemic neuropathies, could underlie functional loss in the absence of frank demyelination.
A 25 year old woman, without family history of muscular dystrophy, had had an isolated lower limb hypertrophy since infancy and later experienced exercise-induced myalgia. Genomic DNA analysis showed a deletion of exons 45 to 52 of the dystrophin gene. Uncommon phenotypes of dystrophinopathies and consequences in genetic counselling in women are emphasised.
A patient with Marfan's syndrome had spontaneous intracranial hypotension secondary to a proved CSF leak. It is postulated that the leak was caused by minor, unrecognised trauma rupturing spinal arachnoid diverticula. The diverticula were probably pre-existing abnormalities complicating the Marfan's syndrome. It is concluded that patients with spinal meningeal defects may be at increased risk of developing CSF leaks, possibly secondary to unrecognised trauma.
Two pairwise matched groups of patients with mild to moderate Parkinson's disease and a group of normal age matched controls were used to investigate the effects on simple and choice reaction time (RT) of brief withdrawal of levodopa therapy. Comparisons within and across these groups disclosed a selective effect of levodopa withdrawal. After about 12 hours of levodopa deprivation, patients exhibited an exaggeration of normal refractoriness, the well established tendency for RT to increase progressively as the delay between a response and the next imperative signal is reduced below 0.5 s. Increased refractoriness was at least as great for simple as choice RT. Choice RT on trials involving repetition (as opposed to alternation) of the previous response, however, showed no tendency towards greater impairment by brevity of the recovery period or by withdrawal of medication, eliminating an effector based account. With longer recovery periods, RT was unaffected by medication; indeed, unmedicated patients were as fast as normal subjects under these conditions. Even at the briefest delays, fully medicated patients did not differ from normal controls. The paper concludes with a critical review of chronometric studies of medication effects in Parkinson's disease.

Albendazole has been used successfully in the treatment of cerebral cysticercosis for several years. The published dosage schedule has varied from 15 mg/kg/day for 8 days to up to 30 days. Fifty three patients with neurocysticercosis received 8, 15 or 30 days treatment with 800 mg of albendazole daily. The present study demonstrates the effectiveness in clinical and radiological terms of albendazole 800 mg/day for 8 days for the majority of patients affected with cystic or encephalitic parenchymatous cysticercosis. There was no apparent advantage of continuation of treatment for 15 or 30 days in this series. The routine use of high dose steroids limited the effects of parasite destruction. No toxicity attributable to albendazole was encountered.
Previous studies examining the functional status of cortical muscarinic cholinergic M1 receptors have demonstrated an impairment in receptor-G protein coupling in Alzheimer's disease (AD) as measured by the inability of the receptor to form a high affinity agonist binding site. In order to investigate whether this alteration was a global phenomenon or a regional specific defect in signal transduction, we examined agonist binding at M1 receptors in three brain areas (superior frontal cortex, Brodmann areas 8 and 9; primary visual cortex, Brodmann area 17; and the dorsal striatum) within the same brain in controls and moderate to severe AD cases. Competition binding studies using the M1 antagonist 3H-pirenzepine (4 nM) in the presence of varying concentrations of the cholinergic agonist carbachol (50 nM to 1 mM) were performed in the presence and absence of GppNHp (100 microM), a non-hydrolyzable analog of GTP. In control membrane preparations, computer-assisted analysis of antagonist-agonist competition curves revealed that M1 receptor agonist binding fit a two site model with high and low affinity states in all three brain areas in the absence of GppNHp but only a single site in the presence of GppNHp. This is consistent with the ternary complex model of G protein-linked receptors. In contrast, curves obtained from both cortical regions from AD brains fit a single site model with low affinity in the presence or absence of GppNHp. On the other hand, agonist binding data obtained from the dorsal striatum of AD cases exhibited a two site fit, similar to that seen in controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. The serotonin1A (5-HT1A) receptor is coupled to an inwardly rectifying potassium current (IKir) via a G protein. The identity of the G-protein subtype was investigated with 2 10-amino acid peptides derived from the carboxyl (C) terminus of the alpha-subunits of the Go1 and Gi2 proteins (G alpha o1 and G alpha i2). The synthetic decapeptides were applied by intracellular perfusion during whole cell recording from dentate granule cells in the hippocampal slice preparation. 2. Bath application of 5-HT produced an IKir, which was blocked by the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, pindobind5-HT1A. The G alpha o1 peptide inhibited the 5-HT1A IKir by 60 +/- 7% (mean +/- SE; t = 30 min), whereas the G alpha i2 peptide had no effect. The G alpha o1 peptide produced a slowly developing outward current that was not observed in the absence of peptide or in the presence of the G alpha i2 peptide. 3. The results indicate that G alpha o1 and not G alpha i2 modulates the 5-HT1A IKir in hippocampal granule cells. They also suggest that G alpha o1 occludes the 5-HT1A response by direct activation of the IKir. The intracellular perfusion of synthetic G alpha peptides provides a new approach to identify the G-protein subtype(s) in a receptor-mediated electrophysiological response.
1. Neuronal activity was investigated in the left superior vestibular nucleus (SVN), lateral vestibular nucleus (LVN), and rostral part of the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) in the alert guinea pig after a unilateral (left) labyrinthectomy was performed. Vestibular neurons were recorded either immediately (just-postoperative group, n = 6) or 1 wk after labyrinthectomy (1-wk-postoperative group, n = 6) and compared with the activity recorded in intact animals (control group, n = 6). 2. Animals were prepared for extracellular recording of single-unit activity and for eye movement recording (scleral search coil technique). To enable stimulation of the left vestibular nerve, bipolar silver ball electrodes were chronically implanted either in contact with the bony labyrinth in the control group or close to the stump of the vestibular nerve after labyrinthectomy. Complete labyrinthectomy was performed under halothane anesthesia. 3. The criterion used to select vestibular neurons for analysis was their recruitment by an electric shock on the vestibular nerve. Of the 589 recorded neurons, 424, defined as second-order vestibular neurons, were recruited at monosynaptic latencies (0.85-1.15 ms) and 165 were recruited at polysynaptic latencies. One hundred three second-order vestibular neurons were recorded in the control group, 173 in the just-postoperative group, and 148 in the 1-wk-postoperative group. 4. The activity of the electrically recruited neurons was recorded during sinusoidal horizontal head rotation in the dark (0.3 Hz, 40 degrees/s peak velocity). The behavior of the neurons was analyzed by plotting their firing rate against head velocity. The Y-intercept of the regression line was used to express spontaneous firing rate (resting discharge), and its slope was used to express the sensitivity of the neuron-to-head velocity. 5. In the absence of statistically significant difference between the characteristics of the neuronal discharge of the second-order vestibular neurons recorded in the SVN, LVN, and rostral MVN, the data were pooled. The Resting discharge of these cells amounted to 41.0 +/- 24.7 (SD) spikes/s in the control state, fell to 7.2 +/- 13.9 spikes/s just after labyrinthectomy, and completely returned to normal values 1 wk after surgery (42.5 +/- 21.6 spikes/s). Among the monosynaptically recruited neurons, the percentage of silent units was 0% in the control group, 69% in the just-postoperative group, and 0% in the 1-wk-postoperative group. 6. By contrast, the sensitivity to head velocity of the second-order vestibular neurons, which was 0.69 +/- 0.48 (SD) spikes.s-1/deg.s-1 in the control state and which fell to 0.03 +/- 0.11 spikes.s-1/deg.s-1 just after labyrinthectomy, remained low 1 wk after injury (0.21 +/- 0.26 spikes.s-1/deg.s-1). Moreover, the slight recovery of sensitivity to head rotation was due only to units behaving as type II neurons. 7. The mean resting discharge of the polysynaptically recruited neurons (pooled from the 3 explored nuclei) was 31.6 +/- 19.3 spikes/s in the control group. It decreased to 11.6 +/- 12.1 spikes/s in the just-postoperative group and recovered to 39.8 +/- 20.2 spikes/s in the 1-wk-postoperative group. No neuron was silent at rest either in the control group or in the 1-wk-postoperative group. Just after labyrinthectomy, 35% of the neurons had a null resting activity. The mean sensitivity to head velocity of these neurons was 0.55 +/- 0.42 spikes.s-1/deg.s-1 in the control group. It decreased to 0.05 +/- 0.12 spikes.s-1/deg.s-1 in the just-postoperative group and recovered to 0.22 +/- 0.17 spikes.s-1/deg.s-1 in the 1-wk-postoperative group. 8. We conclude that, at least in the guinea pig, the restoration of the spontaneous activity of the deafferented neurons is complete 1 wk after a unilateral labyrinthectomy and thus probably plays an important role in vestibular compensation...
1. Purkinje cells in the rabbit flocculus that respond best to rotation about the vertical axis (VA) project to flocculus-receiving neurons (FRNs) in the medial vestibular nucleus. During sinusoidal rotation, the phase of FRNs leads that of medial vestibular nucleus neurons not receiving floccular inhibition (non-FRNs). If the FRN phase lead is produced by signals from the flocculus, then the Purkinje cells should functionally lead the FRNs. In the present study we recorded from VA Purkinje cells in the flocculi of awake, pigmented rabbits during compensatory eye movements to determine whether Purkinje cells have the appropriate firing rate phases to explain the phase-leading characteristics of the FRNs. 2. Awake rabbits were sinusoidally rotated about the VA in the light and the dark at 0.05-0.8 Hz with different amplitudes. The phase of the simple spike (SS) modulation in reference to eye and head position was calculated by determining the eye position sensitivity and the eye velocity sensitivity using multivariate linear regression and Fourier analysis. The phase of the SS modulation in reference to head position was compared with the phase of the FRN modulation, which was obtained in prior experiments with the same stimulus paradigms. 3. The SS activity of nearly all of the 88 recorded floccular VA Purkinje cells increased with contralateral head rotation. During rotation in the light, the SS modulation showed a phase lead in reference to contralateral head position that increased with increasing frequency (median 56.9 degrees at 0.05 Hz, 78.6 degrees at 0.8 Hz). The SS modulation led the FRN modulation significantly at all frequencies. The difference of medians was greatest (19.2 degrees) at 0.05 Hz and progressively decreased with increasing frequency (all Ps &lt; 0.005, Wilcoxon rank-sum test). 4. During rotation in the dark, the SS modulation had a greater phase lead in reference to head position than in the light (median 110.3 degrees at 0.05 Hz, 86.6 degrees at 0.8 Hz). The phase of the SS modulation in the dark led that of the FRNs significantly at all frequencies (difference of medians varied from 24.2 degrees at 0.05 Hz to 9.1 degrees at 0.8 Hz; all Ps &lt; 0.005). 5. The complex spike (CS) activity of all VA Purkinje cells increased with ipsilateral head rotation in the light. Fourier analysis of the cross-correlogram of the CS and SS activity showed that the phase lag of the CS modulation in reference to the SS modulation at 0.05 Hz in the light was not significantly different from that at 0.8 Hz (median 199.7 degrees at 0.05 Hz, 198.3 degrees at 0.8 Hz), even though the phases of the SS modulation at these two frequencies were significantly different (P &lt; 0.001). These data indicate that the average temporal reciprocity between CS and SS modulation is fixed across the range of frequencies used in the present study. 6. The CS activity of most Purkinje cells did not modulate during rotation in the dark. Of 124 cases (each case consisting of the CS and SS data of a VA Purkinje cell obtained at 1 particular frequency) examined over the frequency range of 0.05-0.8 Hz, 17 cases (14%) showed CS modulation. In the majority (15 of 17) of these cases, the CS activity increased with contralateral head rotation; these modulations occurred predominantly at the higher stimulus velocities. 7. On the basis of the finding that FRNs of the medial vestibular nucleus lead non-FRNs, we predicted that floccular VA Purkinje cells would in turn lead FRNs. This prediction is confirmed in the present study. The data are therefore consistent with the hypothesis that the phase-leading characteristics of FRN modulation could come about by summation of VA Purkinje cell activity with that of cells whose phase would otherwise be identical to that of non-FRNs. The floccular SS output appears to increase the phase lead of the net preoculomotor signal, which is in part composed of the FRN and non-FRN signals.
A role for the NO-cGMP pathway in mediating chemosensory activation of feeding is suggested by intense NADPH diaphorase staining observed in nerve fibers that project from sensory cells in the lips to the CNS and by the presence in the CNS of a NO-activated guanylyl cyclase. In preparations reduced to isolated lips and CNS, intracellular recordings were made from motoneurons driven by the interneurons of the central pattern generator (CPG) for feeding. Fictive feeding in such preparations can be recorded from these motoneurons following the application of sucrose to the lips. Sucrose activation of fictive feeding is inhibited by the NO scavenger hemoglobin, the NO synthase inhibitor N omega-Nitro-L-Arginine Methyl Ester (L-NAME) and by methylene blue, an inhibitor of guanylyl cyclase. Fictive feeding in isolated lip-CNS preparations can be activated without sucrose by superfusion of NO donor molecules such as SNAP and hydroxylamine and by the nonhydrolyzable analog of cGMP, 8-bromo-cGMP. The feeding CPG can also be activated centrally by depolarizing a modulatory interneuron, the slow oscillator (SO). When the CPG is activated in this way, fictive feeding is not susceptible to inhibition by hemoglobin, the most potent of the inhibitors of sucrose-activated fictive feeding. Behavioral experiments on intact snails confirm the findings from in vitro experiments and show that hemoglobin prevents feeding and methylene blue significantly delays the onset of feeding. These results indicate (1) that NO is a putative chemosensory transmitter in the snail L. stagnalis, (2) that the NO-cGMP pathway can mediate chemosensory activation of specific patterns of centrally generated behavior, (3) that NO is not involved in transmission within the central network of neurons responsible for the behavior, and more generally (4) that a freely diffusing and highly reactive gaseous signalling molecule can have restricted and specific behavioral functions.
Accurate reaching towards a visual target is initially disturbed when the visual field is displaced by prisms, but recovers with successive trials. To determine how the improvement depends on the visual error signals associated with the motor output, the time course of prism adaptation was studied with delayed visual information on the error. Subjects were trained to reach rapidly at a target on a tangent screen. Vision was always blocked during the movement, and allowed again only after the index finger touched the screen. One experiment consisted of three sets of 30 trials. In the first set, the subject wore no prisms and vision was allowed without delay. In the second, the visual field was displaced by prisms, and vision was available only after a delay period of 0-10,000 msec while the subjects maintained their final pointing position. Initially, the subject misreached the target by about the amount of visual displacement (60 mm). Errors decreased with trials by an amount proportional to the error in the preceding trial. The rate of decrease of error was generally largest when the delay was 0 msec, became significantly smaller when the delay was 50 msec, and showed only gradual change with longer delays. In the third set, the subject wore no prisms and vision was allowed without delay. Initial misreaching in the direction opposite to the visual displacement, reflecting the amount of adaptation in the second set, was generally largest with no delay (median of 46 mm) and significantly smaller with 50 msec and longer delays (17-33 mm).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Using in situ hybridization and the retrograde tracer, Fluorogold, we examined the expression of preprotachykinin (PPT) mRNA in the rat dorsal root ganglion neurons projecting to the gracile nucleus. Seven days after unilateral sciatic nerve transection, some medium- to large-sized neurons in the rat dorsal root ganglia projecting to the gracile nucleus express PPT mRNA, whereas very few gracile nucleus-projecting neurons on the contralateral side express PPT mRNA. Immunohistochemistry revealed an increase in substance P (SP) immunoreactivity in the gracile nucleus and large myelinated fibers in the dorsal root 2 weeks after unilateral sciatic nerve transection. The results suggest that medium to large DRG cells that project to the gracile nucleus express PPT mRNA de novo in response to peripheral nerve injury, and increased SP is transported to the gracile nucleus through large myelinated fibers. To determine whether the increased SP might affect the excitability of the gracile nucleus neurons postsynaptically, Fos expression after electrical stimulation of the injured sciatic nerve was examined. Multiple injections of the NK-1 receptor antagonist, CP-96,345, suppressed stimulus-induced Fos expression in gracile nucleus neurons including thalamic relay neurons. The inactive enantiomer, CP-96,344, had no effect on stimulus-induced Fos expression. These data indicate that the de novo synthesized SP in the lesioned primary afferent neurons may be involved in an augmentation of excitability in the dorsal column-medial lemniscus sensory pathway. This hyperexcitability may play a role in the pathogenesis of abnormal neuropathic sensations following peripheral nerve injury.
Hindpaw injection of formalin produces acute (Phase 1) and persistent (Phase 2) nociceptive behaviors. This model has provided critical evidence supporting a contribution of central sensitization (hyperexcitability of spinal neurons) to the expression of persistent pain. Here, we evaluated the contribution of ongoing peripheral nerve inputs to Phase 2 pain responses. In addition to pain behavior (flinching), we measured formalin-evoked increases in arterial pressure and heart rate; these cardiovascular responses were also biphasic in nature. The arterial pressure response correlated highly with behavior, and was dependent on formalin concentration (0.625-5.0%), indicating that it was largely driven by noxious input. Lightly anesthetized (0.7% halothane) rats exhibited robust increases in blood pressure in the absence of pain behavior, indicating cardiovascular responses did not reflect somatomotor-cardiovascular coupling. Animals obtained from Charles River exhibited slightly larger Phase 2 flinching and heart rate responses compared to those obtained from Bantin and Kingman, suggesting cardiovascular-related pain responses can vary with the source of animal. We next evaluated the contribution of ongoing peripheral nerve activity to the expression of the Phase 2 pressor, tachycardia, and flinch responses. After Phase 1 subsided, but before Phase 2 began, we locally anesthetized the ipsilateral or contralateral (control) hindpaw with a hydrophilic lidocaine derivative, QX-314 (2%). Intraplantar QX-314 blocked Phase 2 pressor, tachycardia and behavioral responses only when injected into the paw that received formalin (2.5% or 10.0%). We conclude that persistent ongoing activity in peripheral afferent fibers during Phase 2 is required for the persistent pain evoked by formalin.
To determine whether sympathetic axons require the presence of a peripheral target to grow to the correct destination, we examined the developing footpad innervation in tabby mutant mice which lack sweat glands. Despite the absence of sweat glands, noradrenergic sympathetic axons are transiently present in the presumptive target area and avoid the more distal epidermal/dermal domain occupied by sensory axons. Since sympathetic axon pathfinding was not dependent upon the target tissue, we compared the subsequent development of sweat gland axons in tabby footpads with that in control footpads. In wild-type mice, the gland-associated axonal plexus expands considerably as the secretory tubule enlarges and coils. This expansion, however, does not occur in tabby mice. The sweat gland innervation of wild-type mice loses catecholamines and acquires AChE activity and vasoactive intestinal peptide immunoreactivity. In tabby mutant mice, catecholaminergic fibers remain in the glandless footpads for 2 weeks and fail to acquire AChE or vasoactive intestinal peptide. In contrast to the altered development of gland innervation in tabby, the development of the innervation of footpad blood vessels was unaffected. Our observations indicate that the target is not required to direct sympathetic axons to the presumptive gland region of the footpad. In the absence of the target tissue, however, gland-targeted sympathetic axons retain an immature morphology and transmitter phenotype and then disappear.
Two rhesus monkeys were trained to track a small moving target in the presence of a moving distractor. The target and distractor were distinguished by their color. Smooth pursuit eye movements were quantified in terms of the latency of the eye movement and the open-loop eye acceleration profile. Smooth pursuit latencies for single targets were on the order of 100 msec. When the target was paired with a distractor moving in the same direction as the target, pursuit latencies decreased to roughly 85 msec. When the target was paired with a distractor moving in the opposite direction, pursuit latencies increased to roughly 150 msec. The motion of the distractor had no significant effect on the eye acceleration profile. Experiments were performed to dissociate visual search for the target from pursuit initiation by providing a spatial cue rather than the color cue. These experiments showed that visual search necessarily preceded pursuit initiation only when the distractor moved in the opposite direction relative to the target. In this case, visual search contributed about 25 msec to the overall latency of pursuit. Control experiments showed that the monkey need not attend to the distractor in order for it to influence the latency of pursuit. A network model was developed in which units that represent the motions of the target and distractor compete against one another. Attention serves to bias the outcome of this competition toward the direction of the selected target. The performance of this network exhibits a striking parallel to the effect of the distractor on smooth pursuit latency.
Hypothalamic CRH neurons that control ACTH secretion from the pituitary gland have secretory terminals in the external zone of the median eminence (ZEME). These neurons can coproduce vasopressin (AVP), a neuropeptide that potentiates the ACTH releasing effects of CRH. Recently, we found increased AVP production in adult rats weeks after single exposure to a stressor, which may play a role in event-induced stress disorders. Here, we describe the long-term changes in the HPA axis of adult male rats following a single exposure to a stressor, the cytokine interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta). The effects on storage and release of AVP and CRH were established by quantitative immunocytochemistry, the effects on ACTH and corticosterone responses by radioimmunoassay. Single administration of IL-1 beta (5 micrograms/kg i.p.) induces a delayed (at least 4 d) and a long-lasting (at least 3 weeks) increase of vasopressin (AVP) stores in CRH terminals of the ZEME without affecting the CRH stores, and a marked increase of the fraction of CRH terminals that costore AVP. Eleven days after IL-1 beta administration, a second IL-1 beta challenge causes a marked depletion of the AVP stores in the ZEME within 2 hr, which is not seen in rats treated with vehicle 11 d earlier. This is accompanied by twofold higher ACTH and corticosterone responses, as compared to those in vehicle pretreated rats. IL-1 beta-pretreated rats also showed increased ACTH and corticosterone responses to electric footshocks. We conclude that transient activation of the HPA axis by a single administration of IL-1 beta induces a delayed and long-lasting hyperproduction, hyperstorage, and hypersecretion of AVP from hypothalamic CRH neurons that results in hyperresponsiveness of the HPA axis to subsequent stimuli.
The effects of cocaine on the development of neurons containing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) were investigated in fetal rhesus macaques. Pregnant monkeys were treated with cocaine 3 mg/kg or saline i.m., four times a day from day 18 of pregnancy until days 40 or 60. Cocaine concentration in plasma from females thus treated was approximately 800 ng/ml 10-20 min following injection. At the time of C-section, plasma levels of cocaine in fetal blood were 231 +/- 70 ng/ml. The brains from 40 and 60 d old fetuses were examined using immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization. The appearance of neurons containing TH by day 40 of gestation was not different between control and cocaine-treated fetal monkeys. In both groups (N = 3 each) TH-IR neurons and TH mRNA were located in the mesencephalon and dorsal hypothalamus by day 40, and fiber projections extended to the developing striatum. Also in the day 60 fetuses, the TH-IR neurons were distributed similarly in both groups (N = 5 each), but the TH mRNA content, measured by quantitative in situ hybridization, was reduced in the substantia nigra (SN) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) after cocaine treatment. These data suggest that exposure to cocaine in fetal life does not affect the development of TH or the expression of its mRNA on day 40 of gestation. By day 60, however, the expression of TH mRNA was significantly reduced. This latter effect can be explained by reduced dopamine synthesis in the cocaine-treated fetuses.
Synaptic glutamate release involves the accumulation of cytoplasmic glutamate in synaptic vesicles, whereafter it is released by triggered exocytosis. As glutamatergic terminals are known to be functionally diverse it was of interest to examine whether the presynaptic glutamate supply differs between individual axon terminals with distinct release properties. The glutamatergic terminals in the crustacean neuromuscular system system comprise a &quot;phasic&quot; type which shows fatigue of release during repetitive stimulation, and a &quot;tonic&quot; type which can maintain transmission for long periods. Quantitative immunogold analysis showed that the axons in a tonic nerve innervating slow muscles in the abdomen contained two times higher levels of glutamate labeling over axoplasmic matrix and over mitochondria, as compared to the corresponding elements in a phasic nerve. Similar results were obtained when adjacent phasic and tonic axons in a mixed nerve innervating leg muscles were compared. In the terminal regions of tonic and phasic axons the glutamate labeling differed correspondingly over axoplasmic matrix and mitochondria, while the synaptic vesicles showed a similar strong accumulation of labeling in both types of terminal. The level of labeling for glutamine, a glutamate precursor, was closely similar in phasic and tonic axons. The axoplasmic glutamate concentration was estimated to be in the low millimolar range, through comparison with coprocessed conjugates with known glutamate concentration. These results show that fatigue-resistant tonic axons and terminals contain higher levels of glutamate than fatiguable phasic axons, presumably representing an adaptation to the markedly different impulse activities in the two types of neuron. The axonal glutamate concentrations are in the range of the Km value for vesicular glutamate transport. Thus in tonic axons the high glutamate level appears to promote an efficient refilling of synaptic vesicles during sustained release, while in phasic axons the refilling should be slower which is compatible with an infrequent release.
The delayed onset of action of antipsychotic drugs (APDs) during the treatment of schizophrenia has been hypothesized to temporally correlate with the induction of depolarization block in rat mesencephalic dopamine (DA) cell groups. Nevertheless, it is unknown whether these drugs also exert a delayed action on the dopaminoceptive postsynaptic target cells in the striatal complex. Using in vivo intracellular recording and dye labeling techniques, the effects of APDs on dye coupling were examined in subregions of the striatal complex defined by double staining for calbindin immunoreactivity. Rats treated repeatedly with APDs were found to exhibit a 66-71% higher incidence of coupling that occurred in a drug- and a region-specific manner, that is, both drug treatments increased dye coupling in the limbic-associated accumbens shell region whereas only haloperidol increased dye coupling in the motor-related striatal matrix and accumbens core regions. In addition, cells located in regions in which dye coupling was altered also showed significantly higher input resistance. These changes were not observed in response to DA receptor blockade by acute drug administration or when haloperidol was administered for a period sufficient to induce DA receptor supersensitivity but not DA cell depolarization block (i.e., 2 weeks). Therefore, alteration in dye coupling appears to be correlated temporally with the induction of DA cell depolarization block. The finding that both APDs exert a common action on neurons in the accumbens shell region is consistent with its identification as the site of therapeutic drug actions, whereas the capacity of haloperidol to also affect cells in the motor-related matrix and core regions correlates with its high propensity to induce extrapyramidal side effects.
The diversity of nicotinic ACh receptor (AChR) expression in the chick lateral spiriform nucleus (SpL) was assessed using subunit-specific monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and laser scanning confocal microscopy. The late embryonic SpL was immunoreactive for mAbs against the alpha 2, alpha 5, alpha 7, alpha 8, and beta 2 AChR subunits. Distinct neuronal cell classes were determined using pair-wise staining of mAbs. Approximately 90% of the neurons in the SpL contained both alpha 5-like immunoreactivity (LI) and beta 2-LI, with no neurons having only one of these subunit-LIs. Approximately 70% of the neurons contained alpha 2-LI. All alpha 2-LI neurons contained alpha 5/beta 2-LI; thus, neurons having alpha 2-LI are a subset of those having alpha 5- and beta 2-LI. Fewer neurons, approximately 20%, contained alpha 7-LI. A subset of alpha 7-positive neurons were immunoreactive for other subunits; for example, some alpha 7-positive neurons also contained alpha 2-LI. Fewer than 15% of the neurons contained alpha 8-LI. Some of the alpha 8-LI-containing neurons contained alpha 7-LI. The 14 week post-hatch SpL resembles the late embryonic nucleus in the percentage of neurons immunoreactive for alpha 2, alpha 5, alpha 7, alpha 8, and beta 2 AChR subunits, and in the presence of multiple classes based on AChR subunit immunoreactivity. In addition, alpha 4-LI was found in about 20% of the 14 week SpL neurons. Double-label immunofluorescence experiments with mAbs to AChRs and to synaptic vesicle antigens showed that most clusters of alpha 5-LI and beta 2-LI are extrasynaptic. The pronounced diversity of AChR subunit expression and the extrasynaptic location of AChR-LI suggest that AChR-like molecules in the SpL do not function solely to respond to transmitter focally released from presynaptic terminals.
A low-cost PC-based 2-channel stimulator was designed. This device can generate regular current pulses for many neuroscience experiments. It can also generate irregular pulses for nerve stimulation, thus could possibly avoid the problem of sensitization or habituation in the central nervous system. The stimulation frequency (can be &lt; 0.0005 Hz) and pulse duration (5 microseconds to 65 ms) of this device can be programmed by an interactive user interface. Furthermore, the output current (0-10 mA) can be continuously varied and was optically isolated to minimize stimulus artifact. Moreover, features such as low-power consumption (0.2 mA of a 9 V battery) and high-compliance output (&gt; 120 V) could accommodate the stimulator for widespread applications. A trial of nerve stimulation was illustrated besides the electrical specifications of the stimulator.
Complete analysis of retinal tissue is difficult because it consists of a thin neural tissue spread across the back of a hemispheric surface. Conventional sectioning in a plane parallel to a central axis of symmetry produces a large number of samples, each containing only a small amount of the tissue of interest. Consequently, quantitative comparison of any feature of interest typically uses a small fraction of the sections from each retina, because analysis of the entire collection of sections is too time consuming. Such a sampling process can lead to misleading or erroneous conclusions. We present a new method which allows complete analysis of the retina using a small number of samples produced by sectioning flattened retinas. This procedure is straightforward as illustrated using an antibody against proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) to locate dividing cells in the teleost fish retina. Immunocytochemical staining on flat-sectioned retinas was quantified using a computer-based image analysis system. When the cells of interest are randomly distributed, conventional sampling procedures can seriously under- or over-estimate their number. The new technique presented allows significantly more efficient examination and quantification of the entire retina as compared to conventional techniques.
A procedure is described for 'blind' cell search in brain slices based on pressure pulses instead of steady-state pressure applied to the patch pipette during its stepwise movements. For reproducibility of the pressure/movement pattern during the cell search, we have developed two adapters, one for electrically and the other for hydraulically driven micromanipulators which generate pressure pulses synchronized with patch-pipette step movements. Both adapters increase the intrapipette pressure prior to a step movement of the pipette, maintain the pressure during the pipette movement, and release it between steps, thus minimizing the possibility of 'blowing-away' the cells during the search. The hydraulic micromanipulator adapter converts this into a stepping one. Both adapters also allow simultaneous recording of pipette step movements and of intrapipette pressure. The use of these adapters allows standardization of the 'blind' cell search and greatly increases the success rate of cells detection.
Axon growth inhibitory proteins associated with central nervous system (CNS) myelin are responsible in part for the absence of long distance axon regeneration in the adult mammalian CNS. We have recently reported that myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG), which is also present in peripheral nerves, is a potent inhibitor of neurite growth. This was surprising given the robust regenerative capacity of peripheral nerves. We now provide evidence that myelin purified from peripheral nerve also has neurite growth inhibitory activity. However, this activity can be masked by laminin, which is a constituent of the Schwann cell basal lamina. We also report that laminin, which is largely absent from the normal adult mammalian CNS, when added to purified CNS myelin, can override the neurite growth inhibitory activity in CNS myelin. These results have important implications for the development of strategies to foster axon regeneration in the adult mammalian CNS where multiple growth inhibitors exist.
Cell-type-specific reagents have proven useful in the analysis of central nervous system (CNS) development and function. Most markers of oligodendrocytes are components of myelin sheath, which in the CNS is the specific product of oligodendrocytes. We have isolated a novel monoclonal antibody termed 2B10 which was raised against embryonic rat spinal cord tissue. In adult rat cerebrum, cerebellum, and spinal cord, 2B10 immunoreactivity is predominantly localized in white matter. 2B10 immunoreactivity is absent from peripheral nerve, suggesting that in the nervous system the 2B10 antigen is restricted to the CNS. Dissociated cell culture studies indicate that 2B10 labels a cell surface molecule, and its cellular distribution is coincident with O1 and myelin basic protein-positive oligodendrocytes. By contrast, 2B10 does not label GFAP-positive astrocytes. These data suggest that in the CNS the 2B10 antigen is expressed specifically on oligodendrocytes. Biochemical analysis indicates that 2B10 recognizes a protein with an apparent molecular weight of approximately 79,000 in reducing sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Developmentally, 2B10 immunoreactivity is detectable in rat spinal cord at as early as embryonic day 14. The relative abundance of this molecule decreases during myelination, but is maintained at a sustained level throughout adulthood. The 2B10 antigen appears not to be a myelin-associated protein since it is not detected in purified myelin fractions. 2B10 immunoreactivity is not detectable in extracts of rat sciatic nerve, heart, kidney, muscle, and skin, but is detectable in extracts of spleen and thymus. These data suggest that the 2B10 antigen is a novel cell surface molecule that is expressed on oligodendrocyte lineage cells throughout development.
Prolongation of the action potential duration of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons by low (nM) concentrations of opioids occurs through activation of excitatory opioid receptors that are positively coupled via Gs regulatory protein to adenylate cyclase. Previous results suggested GM1 ganglioside to have an essential role in regulating this excitatory response, but not the inhibitory (APD-shortening) response to higher (microM) opioid concentrations. Furthermore, it was proposed that synthesis of GM1 is upregulated by prolonged activation of excitatory opioid receptor functions. To explore this possibility we have utilized cultures of hybrid F11 cells to carry out closely correlated electrophysiological and biochemical analyses of the effects of chronic opioid treatment on a homogeneous population of clonal cells which express many functions characteristic of DRG neurons. We show that chronic opioid exposure of F11 cells does, in fact, result in elevated levels of GM1 as well as cyclic adenosine monophosphate (AMP), concomitant with the onset of opioid excitatory supersensitivity as manifested by naloxone-evoked decreases in voltage-dependent membrane K+ currents. Such elevation of GM1 would be expected to enhance the efficacy of excitatory opioid receptor activation of the Gs/adenylate cyclase/cyclic AMP system, thereby providing a positive feedback mechanism that may account for the remarkable supersensitivity of chronic opioid-treated neurons to the excitatory effects of opioid agonists as well as antagonists. These in vitro findings may provide novel insights into the mechanisms underlying naloxone-precipitated withdrawal syndromes and opioid-induced hyperalgesia after chronic opiate addiction in vivo.
The fissure separating the motor from the sensory cortex and the substantia gelatinosa capping the posterior horn of the spinal cord are still known by the name of the Italian anatomist Rolando, Luigi Rolando was born in Turin, Italy, in 1773 and died in 1831. His life was not easy, the first of his problems being the death of his father when Rolando was still very young. Three people were to be influential in his life and career: Father Maffei, his maternal uncle who raised him; Dr. Cigna, the anatomy professor who discovered his talent; and Dr. Anformi, a general practitioner who introduced him to the practice of medicine and to the best circles of the city. Forced to leave Turin by the Napoleonic invasion of the country, Rolando first stopped in Florence, where he learned about anatomical dissection, drawing, and engraving and studied the appearance of nervous tissue under the microscope. Later he went to Sardinia where, although cut off from European cultural circles, he developed his major theories. Rolando pioneered the idea that brain functions could be differentiated and located in specific areas and discovered the fixed pattern of cerebral convolutions, highlighting motor and sensory gyri. He demonstrated the complexity of the central gray matter of the spinal cord, describing the &quot;substantia gelatinosa,&quot; and he deduced that nervous structures are connected in a network of nervous fibers linked by electrical impulses. Rolando had to struggle for recognition, however, as the priority of his discoveries was challenged by the almost contemporaneous work of Gall and Spurzheim on cerebral localization and of Flourens on cerebellar function. Nevertheless, his efforts contributed greatly to the clarification of brain function. His observations on nervous anatomy have been especially accurate, as shown by the nomenclature &quot;fissure of Rolando.&quot;
In this paper the author recounts an anecdote presented by Galen of Pergamum (circa 130-200 A.D.) about a sophist named Pausanias, who fell from his mount and struck his back against a rock. The patient developed a subsequent loss of sensation in the fingers of his left hand with complete sparing of motor function. Numerous medications were applied to his hand but to no avail. Galen stated that he applied the same medications to the original point of dorsal tenderness, resulting in the patient's dramatic and full recovery. Galen attributed the healing to local drug action at the site of a presumed spinal root injury, at the level of C-7. Galen repeated this anecdote elsewhere to illustrate the remote effects of spinal cord and nerve injury and the importance of treating the site of pathology, rather than its somatic manifestations. Galen's observation is interpreted in light of his earlier experiments on spinal cord and nerve transections in live animals and his evolving concepts of functional and correlative neuroanatomy. This anecdote is also discussed as a striking example of the dangers of conjecture and the temptation to confuse association with causation when interpreting the effects of therapy in light of widely accepted paradigms.
Both anecdotal reports in humans and preclinical studies indicate that ibogaine interrupts addiction to a variety of abused substances including alcohol, opiates, nicotine and stimulants. Based on the similarity of these therapeutic claims to recent preclinical studies demonstrating that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists attenuate addiction-related phenomena, we examined the NMDA antagonist properties of ibogaine. Pharmacologically relevant concentrations of ibogaine produce a voltage-dependent block of NMDA receptors in hippocampal cultures (Ki, 2.3 microM at -60 mV). Consistent with this observation, ibogaine competitively inhibits [3H]1-[1-(2-thienyl)-cyclohexyl]piperidine binding to rat forebrain homogenates (Ki, 1.5 microM) and blocks glutamate-induced cell death in neuronal cultures (IC50, 4.5 microM). Moreover, at doses previously reported to interfere with drug-seeking behaviors, ibogaine substitutes as a discriminative stimulus (ED50, 64.9 mg/kg) in mice trained to discriminate the prototypic voltage-dependent NMDA antagonist, dizocilpine (0.17 mg/kg), from saline. Consistent with previous reports, ibogaine reduced naloxone-precipitated jumping in morphine-dependent mice (ED50, 72 mg/kg). Although pretreatment with glycine did not affect naloxone-precipitated jumping in morphine-dependent mice, it abolished the ability of ibogaine to block naloxone-precipitated jumping. Taken together, these findings link the NMDA antagonist actions of ibogaine to a putative &quot;antiaddictive&quot; property of this alkaloid, its ability to reduce the expression of morphine dependence.
1. Physiological activation of rat supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurones leads to phasic firing in vasopressin neurones and fast, continuous firing in oxytocin neurones. Using whole-cell patch clamp methods in brain slices, we investigated the role of endogenous calbindin-D28k (calbindin) in determining these intrinsically generated patterns of firing. 2. Direct introduction of calbindin (0.1-0.2 mM) into twelve of twelve phasically firing neurones suppressed Ca(2+)-dependent depolarizing after-potentials (DAPs) and changed activity from phasic to continuous firing. Bovine calcium binding protein (0.3 mM), an analogue of calbindin, had similar effects on both DAPs and firing patterns in five of five cells tested. 3. Introduction of anti-calbindin antiserum (1:2000-5000) into thirteen of thirteen continuously firing neurones unmasked DAPs and converted continuous into phasic firing. Such effects could not be mimicked either by diffusion of normal rabbit serum or antibodies directed against glial fibrillary acidic protein or against neurophysin. 4. Immunocytochemical staining with antisera directed against calbindin revealed more intense staining in the dorsal, oxytocin-rich and less intense staining in the ventral, vasopressin-rich areas of the SON. 5. Elevated intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i; 0.1 mM) induced DAPs and phasic firing in all twenty-nine SON cells recorded. During chelation of intracellular Ca2+ with (1.1-11 mM) BAPTA, fifty-eight of fifty-eight neurones recorded displayed regular continuous activity and had no DAPs. 6. These data suggest that firing activities in SON cells are dependent on [Ca2+]i and that calbindin, acting as an endogenous Ca2+ buffer, is involved in regulation of intrinsic firing patterns. It is likely that calcium binding proteins have a similar influence on the firing patterns of many neuronal types throughout the nervous system.
The receptor-binding capacity of the S2 subunit of the murine coronavirus S protein was examined by testing the inhibition of virus-receptor binding. Sp-4 virus and S1N(330), which consists of the N-terminal 330 amino acids of the S1 protein, both of which exhibited receptor-binding capacity, were able to prevent the binding of cl-2 virus to the receptor, while the mutant protein S1N(330)-159, which failed to bind to the receptor protein, and S2TM-, which lacks the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains normally existing in the S2, were unable to prevent the binding of cl-2. By using cultured DBT cells, it was revealed that the infection of cells by cl-2 virus was significantly inhibited by S1N(330) but not by S2TM-. These results indicate that the S2 protein is not involved in the receptor binding of murine coronaviruses.
We investigated the effects of YM060 [(R)-5-[(1-methyl-3-indolyl)carbonyl]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-benzimidazol e hydrochloride] and YM114 (KAE-393) [(R)-5-[(2,3-dihydro-1-indolyl)-carbonyl]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H- benzimidazole hydrochloride] on 5-HT4 receptors and gastric emptying in normal and cisplatin-treated rats and compared results with those for ondansetron and granisetron. YM060, YM114, ondansetron and granisetron dose-dependently inhibited the specific binding of [3H]-GR113808 ([[1-[(2-methylsulphonyl)amino]ethyl]-4-piperidin-yl]methyl 1-methyl-1H-indole-3-carboxylate) in guinea pig striatum, with pKi values of 5.53, 5.13, 5.21 and 5.63, respectively. According to the pKi values reported in 5-HT3-receptor binding of [3H]GR65630 to rat cortical membranes, the affinity of YM060, YM114, ondansetron and granisetron for 5-HT4 receptors was approximately 5, 5, 3.5 and 3.5 log units lower than that for 5-HT3 receptors, respectively. In the guinea pig longitudinal muscle with myenteric plexus and rat esophageal tunica muscularis mucosae, YM060 and YM114 showed neither 5-HT4-agonistic nor antagonistic properties. Although ondansetron produced concentration-dependent increases in the magnitude of the twitch response in longitudinal muscle, it did not possess 5-HT3- and 5-HT4-agonistic activity. Granisetron antagonized 5-HT-induced relaxation of the rat esophagus with an apparent pA2 value of 5.39. Intravenous YM060, YM114, ondansetron and granisetron significantly enhanced gastric emptying of glass beads and improved cisplatin-induced slowing of gastric emptying in rats. These results indicate that the selectivity of YM060 and YM114 for 5-HT3 receptors is higher than that of ondansetron and granisetron and that these 5-HT3 antagonists have gastroprokinetic activity in normal and cisplatin-treated rats without affecting 5-HT4 receptors.
Drosophila is an ideal system for identifying genes that control central nervous system (CNS) development. Particularly useful tools include molecular markers for subsets of neural precursors (neuroblasts) and the simple expression pattern of the even-skipped (eve) gene in a subset of neurons. Here we provide additional molecular markers for identified neuroblasts, including several with near single cell specificity. In addition, we use these new markers to trace the development of several eve+ neurons. Our results shows that the eve+ aCC/pCC neurons develop from a different neuroblast than previously thought, and have led us to assign new names for several neuroblasts. These results are supported by DiI cell lineage analysis of neuroblasts identified in vivo.
Antidepressants have been found to be of value in the treatment of pain of various etiologies. Nevertheless, the data are conflicting as it is often difficult to distinguish between the analgesic and antidepressant action. The analgesic effect of acutely administered amitriptyline at doses of 2.5, 5, 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg was investigated in four nociceptive tests involving physical (hot plate and tail flick tests), or noxious chemical stimuli (acetic acid and formalin tests). Relationships were established between the analgesic actions and the antidepressant effect of acutely administered amitriptyline at doses of 2.5, 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg in the forced swimming test. The results demonstrated a relationship between the antidepressant effect and the analgesic action in the tail flick test, but not in the hot plate, acetic acid and formalin tests. Thus, the type of noxious stimulus may be a determining factor in the relationship between these two pharmacological actions.
There is substantial evidence for the progressive loss of the telomeric ends of chromosomes during aging, both in cell culture and in vivo. The loss of telomeres may eventually induce antiproliferative signals that result in cellular senescence. A hypothesis gaining prominence is that the activation of telomerase, a ribonucleoprotein enzyme that is important in maintaining telomere length stability, is necessary for the sustained growth of most tumors. The interrelationships between telomere shortening and aging, and how activation of telomerase may be necessary for cells to become immortal and malignant, are reviewed here.
The pharmacological properties of two recombinant human N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subtypes, comprising either NR1a/NR2A or NR1a/NR2B subunits permanently transfected into mouse L(tk-) cells, have been compared using whole-cell voltage-clamp electrophysiology. Glutamate was a full agonist at both receptors, having a modestly but statistically significant (p &lt; 0.002) higher affinity for the NR2B- than the NR2A-containing receptor (microscopic Kd [mKd] = 0.76 and 0.43 microM, respectively). In comparison to glutamate, NMDA, quinolinic acid, and cis-2,3-piperidinedicarboxylic acid were partial agonists at both receptor subtypes. Maximal amplitude currents resulted when glutamate-site agonists were combined with either glycine or D-serine; both of these amino acids were, therefore, defined as full agonists at the glycine site. Glycine had an approximately 10-fold higher affinity (p &lt; 0.0001) for NR2B- than for NR2A-containing receptors (mKd = 0.057 and 0.53 microM, respectively). D-Cycloserine, (+)-(3R)-3-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolidin-2-one, (+)-cis-(4R)-methyl-(3R)-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolidin-2-one, and 1-aminocyclobutanecarboxylic acid also had higher affinities for the NR2B-containing receptor but were partial agonists, at both receptor subtypes, unlike glycine. Agonist-evoked whole-cell currents were antagonized by D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, cis-4-(phosphonomethyl)piperidine-2-carboxylic acid, and 3-((R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid, all of which had slightly, but statistically significant, higher affinities (2.2-, 2.8-, and 5.5-fold, respectively) for the NR2A-containing receptor. Responses were also antagonized by the glycine-site antagonists 7-chlorokynurenic acid, 7-chloro-4-hydroxy-3-(3-phenoxy)phenylquinolin-2-(1H)-one, and (+/=)-4-(trans)-2-carboxy-5,7-dichloro-4-phenylaminocarbonylamino- 1,2,3,4- tetrahydroquinoline. The atypical NMDA antagonist ifenprodil showed the largest separation in functional affinity (IC50 values, 0.6 and 175 microM at NR2B- and NR2A-containing receptors, respectively). These experiments demonstrate the usefulness of permanently transfected L(tk-) cells for electrophysiological studies of recombinant NMDA receptor function and provide the first detailed functional pharmacological analysis of human NMDA receptor subtypes.
Clinical trials are under way using fetal cells to repair damaged neuronal circuitry. However, little is known about how transplanted immature neurons can grow anatomically correct connections in the adult central nervous system (CNS). We transplanted embryonic porcine neural cells in vivo into adult rat brains with neuronal and axonal loss typical of Parkinson's or Huntington's disease. Using complementary species-specific cellular markers, we found donor axons and CD44+ astroglial fibres in host white matter tracts up to 8 mm from CNS transplant sites, although only donor axons were capable of reaching correct gray matter target regions. This work demonstrates that adult host brain can orient growth of transplanted neurons and that there are differences in transplant donor glial and axonal growth patterns in cellular repair of the mature CNS.

The mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is considered to be a major component of the biological clock implicated in the temporal organization of a variety of physiological, endocrine, and behavioral processes. There is now a great deal of evidence indicating that many of these rhythms are progressively disturbed during senescence. The present study was aimed at investigating the influence of aging on the seasonal rhythm of the vasopressin (VP)-expressing neurons in the human SCN. To that end, brains obtained at autopsy of 48 human subjects, ranging in age from 6 to 91 years, were studied. Subjects were divided into two age groups, viz. &quot;young subjects&quot; (up to 50 years) and &quot;elderly subjects&quot; (over 50 years). It is shown that the number of VP-immunoreactive neurons in the human SCN exhibits a marked annual oscillation in young but not in elderly people. Whereas in young subjects low VP-immunoreactive neuron numbers were found during the summer (May-July) and peak values in autumn (September-November), the SCN of elderly people showed a disrupted annual cycle with a reduced amplitude. These data suggest that the biosynthesis of vasopressin in the human SCN exhibits a seasonal rhythm that becomes disturbed later in life.
This study examined the effects of ibotenate lesions of either the entorhinal cortex (EC) or the subiculum (SUB) on the ability of mice to memorize a single spatial location (initial discrimination), and on their capacity to switch to a new location (transfer) following the initial learning in an eight-arm radial maze. Results indicated that mice with ibotenate lesions of the EC or SUB were impaired in postoperative acquisition of the spatial discrimination task, making more reference, but not working memory, errors and displaying fewer first correct response trials than sham-operated control mice. Furthermore, additional damage to the ventral hippocampus exacerbated the impairment of performance induced by lesions of the SUB alone. In addition, all mice, except for the combined lesion group, exhibited similar performance levels when they were trained to choose another arm of the maze that had not previously been baited (transfer). These findings suggest that both the EC and the SUB play important roles in spatial information processing in mice.
GM2 ganglioside, although scarce in normal adult brain, is the predominant ganglioside accumulating in several types of lysosomal disorders, most notably Tay-Sachs disease. Pyramidal neurons of cerebral cortex in Tay-Sachs, as well as many other types of neuronal storage disorders, are known to exhibit a phenomenon believed unique to storage disorders: growth of ectopic dendrites. Recent studies have shown that a common metabolic abnormality shared by storage diseases with ectopic dendrite growth is the abnormal accumulation of GM2 ganglioside. The correlation between increased levels of GM2 and the presence of ectopic dendrites has been found in both ganglioside and nonganglioside storage disorders, the latter including sphingomyelin-cholesterol lipidosis, mucopolysaccharidosis, and alpha-mannosidosis. Quantitative HPTLC analysis has shown that increases in GM2 occur in proportion to the incidence of ectopic dendrite growth, whereas other gangliosides, including GM1, lack similar increases. Immunocytochemical studies of all nonganglioside storage diseases which exhibit ectopic dendritogenesis have revealed heightened GM2 ganglioside-immunoreactivity in the cortical pyramidal cell population, whereas nerurons in normal adult brain exhibit little or no staining for this ganglioside. Further, studies examining disease development have consistently shown that accumulation of GM2 ganglioside precedes growth of ectopic dendrites, indicating that it is not simply occurring secondary to new membrane production. These findings have prompted an examination for a similar relationship between GM2 ganglioside and dendritogenesis in cortical neurons of normal developing brain. Results show that GM2 ganglioside-immunoreactivity is consistently elevated in immature neurons during the period when they are undergoing active dendritic initiation, but this staining diminishes dramatically as the dendritic trees of these cells mature. Collectively, these studies on diseased and normal brain offer compelling evidence that GM2 ganglioside plays a pivotal role in the regulation of dendritogenesis in cortical pyramidal neurons.
A variety of pathologic lesions associated with seizures are described in this article. Because of concerted efforts of workers in the field, remarkable progress has been made in the early detection, resection, and characterization of previously poorly defined pathologic processes. It is hoped that with further advancement of the neurosciences, most of the cryptogenic cases may be categorized so that the epileptogenic mechanism in individual lesions can be better understood.

We studied seizure localization and surgical pathology in 25 patients who developed intractable complex partial seizures following head trauma. All patients underwent an extensive presurgical evaluation that included MRI, neuropsychological evaluation, and surface EEG monitoring, and 21 had intracranial EEG monitoring. Seizures were successfully localized in nine patients; all nine underwent a surgical procedure and are seizure-free. Six of these patients had a mesial temporal lobe seizure focus, of whom five had a pathologic diagnosis of mesial temporal sclerosis. All five patients who developed mesial temporal sclerosis sustained their head injury at or before age 5 years. The three remaining patients whose seizures were successfully localized had neocortical foci and circumscribed radiographic abnormalities, which were presumed to be secondary to head trauma, and all had successful surgical resections of the epileptogenic focus. The remaining 16 patients sustained later trauma, and all had successful surgical resections of the epileptogenic focus. The remaining 16 patients sustained later trauma and did not have a focal MRI lesion, and their seizures were not adequately localized. We conclude that as a group, seizure foci secondary to head trauma are difficult to localize accurately, and this should deter surgical intervention. There was an association between early head injury (ie, at or before age 5 years) and mesial temporal sclerosis, and this association aided seizure localization and successful surgical intervention. Therefore, under the right circumstances, trauma can be a suitable historical element in the profile of patients in whom epilepsy surgery is successful.
We studied the effect of walking on a horizontally rotating disk (circular treadmill) on the stepping test in seven normal subjects. Subjects walked for 2 hours on the perimeter of the treadmill with eyes open while remaining stationary in space. Then, off the treadmill, they attempted to step in place with eyes closed for 50 paces without turning. All subjects exhibited post-treadmill turning in the same direction as that of the previous walking relative to the treadmill. Post-treadmill average angular velocities were 207 to 880 deg/min greater than pretreadmill values. No subject experienced any sensation of motion relative to ground or space. The stepping test may no longer be considered a specific indicator of vestibulospinal function.
Ever since the initial measurements of presynaptic calcium currents it has been evident that calcium triggers transmitter release quite rapidly. Several models indicate, as did the initial voltage clamp measurements, that the calcium concentration triggering such release could be very high at the entry site and that this concentration should be very short lasting. In order to determine this time course, calcium entry was studied at the squid giant synapse by imaging light emission from n-aequorin-J, intracellularly injected into the presynaptic terminal. The imaging utilized a video system capable of acquiring 4000 frames per sec. The results indicate that the calcium entry, triggered by action potentials, reaches a peak within 200 musec and has an overall duration of close to 800 musec, closely matching the duration of the presynaptic calcium current determined by voltage clamp results under similar conditions.
This paper presents a selective account of imagery research during the 1970s and 80s, whose chief objective was to establish the functional equivalence of imaginal and perceptual representations. More recent attention to imagery by cognitive neuroscience has extended and solidified this idea of functional equivalence, but it has also introduced conceptual complexities by demonstrating that imagery, like perception and object recognition, may consist of distinguishable subsystems whose representational properties become activated in response to the demands of particular cognitive tasks.

In this study we examined whether the serotonergic raphe-hippocampal projection preserves its characteristic target selectivity for GABAergic interneurons when developing in vitro, in organotypic cultures. Hippocampal slices from one- to three-day-old rats were co-cultured with slices derived from the raphe nuclei of the same animals. After several weeks of in vitro incubation, a large number of raphe fibres--visualized by immunostaining for serotonin--were found to innervate the hippocampal tissue. In our random sample of over 250 serially sectioned boutons--52 of which were completely reconstructed from serial sections--only two were found to form conventional synapses in the electron microscope, and contacted dendritic spines. These results demonstrate that raphe-hippocampal serotonergic afferent are unable to form synaptic contacts with their normal targets in vitro, if explanted one to three days postnatally. Neurons in the afferent and/or target area may have passed a critical age when selective synaptic contacts can be formed, or unknown chemical or electrical signals may be missing under these conditions, which should serve to guide subcortical afferents to their synaptic target elements.
Repeated restraint stress of rats for 21 days causes atrophy of apical dendrites of hippocampal CA3c pyramidal neurons. This effect is mimicked by daily corticosterone treatment for 21 days and is prevented y the anti-epileptic drug, phenytoin, known to interfere with excitatory amino acid release and action. The present study was designed to investigate the involvement of endogenous corticosterone secretion and excitatory amino acid receptors in the stress-induced hippocampal dendritic atrophy. Treatment of chronically stressed rats with the steroid synthesis blocker cyanoketone prevented stress-induced dendritic atrophy. Cyanoketone-treated animals showed an impaired corticosterone secretion in response to the stressor, while basal levels were maintained. Besides the involvement of endogenous corticosterone secretion, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors also play a role, since the competitive receptor antagonist, CGP 43487, blocked stress-induced dendritic atrophy. In contrast, NBQX, a competitive inhibitor of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid receptors, was ineffective at a dose that blocks ischemic damage. These results indicate that the reversible atrophy induced by 21 days of daily restraint stress requires corticosterone secretion and that excitatory mechanisms involving N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors play a major role in driving the atrophy.
Repeated restraint stress induces an atrophy of apical dendrites of CA3c pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus, but the relationship between stress and adrenocortical activation has not been thoroughly investigated. In order to better understand the relationship between neural and non-neural indices of the severity of stress, we investigated the temporal relationship between CA3c dendritic atrophy and indices of adrenal steroid stress responsiveness. For this purpose, we used two different stress regimens: repeated restraint stress (6 h/day) and a chronic multiple stress paradigm (shaking, restraint and swimming, each day), differing in the degree of adrenal activation produced over 14 and 21 days. Atrophy of dendrites of CA3c neurons was found after 21 days of stress, but not after 14 days, and was of a similar magnitude for both stressors. However, non-neural measures differed between the two stress paradigms: (i) chronic restraint stress caused a significant habituation by day 21 in the corticosterone response to acute restraint, whereas chronic multiple stress exposure was not accompanied by habituation of the corticosterone response to restraint; (ii) chronic restraint stress caused neither adrenal hypertrophy nor thymus atrophy, but did reduce the rate of body weight gain throughout the 21 days, whereas chronic multiple stress caused a transient adrenal hypertrophy (on day 14), delayed suppression of thymus weight (on day 21) and transient reduction of body weight gain (on days 7 and 14, but not on day 21). Thus the non-neural indices of response to stress--although complex in their time course--suggest that the multiple stress regimen is a somewhat more potent chronic stressor for corticosterone and adrenal responses. Yet both stress regimens produced the same degree of apical dendritic atrophy in CA3c pyramidal neurons. These results are consistent with a model in which adrenocortical secretion plays a permissive role in enabling another agent, namely, excitatory amino acids, to produce the final effect.
The limbic system-associated membrane protein is a 64,000-68,000 mol.wt molecule known to be preferentially expressed by neurons in limbic structures of rats and cats. The present immunohistochemical study describes the distribution of this protein in the basal ganglia of Macaca fascicularis. The ventral striatum of the cynomolgus monkey displays a very intense immunostaining, whereas the dorsal striatum is much more weakly stained, except for some small zones scattered in the caudate nucleus and, to a lesser extent, in the putamen. These protein-rich zones are in register with striosomes, as visualized on adjacent sections immunostained for calbindin. At pallidal levels, immunostaining for the protein is observed only in the subcommissural regions, at the ventromedial tip of the internal pallidum, and in the caudoventral portion of the external pallidum. At nigral levels, the immunostaining is highly heterogeneous with a marked decreasing rostrocaudal gradient. The staining is most intense in nigral regions that receive striatal inputs and are enriched with calbindin. Nigral sectors populated by dopaminergic neurons, as visualized on adjacent sections immunostained for tyrosine hydroxylase, are largely devoid of immunoreactivity. In contrast, the immunostaining is uniformly intense in the ventral tegmental area. This study provides the first neuroanatomical evidence for teh existence of the limbic system-associated membrane protein in primate brain. It reveals that this glycoprotein is distributed in a highly heterogeneous manner in primate basal ganglia, where it preferentially labels regions that are anatomically and functionally linked to the limbic system.
The ventral pallidum of the basal forebrain contains a high concentration of substance P and receives a massive projection from the nucleus accumbens. The present study was designed to determine whether the accumbens serves as a source for substance P-containing fibers in the ventral pallidum and characterize the function of this tachykinin peptide within the ventral pallidum. By combining in situ hybridization for messenger RNA of the substance P prohormone, beta-preprotachykinin, with Fluoro-Gold retrograde labeling from iontophoretic deposits in the ventral pallidum, a population of substance P-containing neurons was demonstrated in the shell and core components of the nucleus accumbens and the ventromedial striatum. The function of substance P within the ventral pallidum was characterized at the level of the single neuron, and the behaving animal. Electrophysiological assessment revealed that approximately 40% of the 97 ventral pallidal neurons tested were readily excited by microiontophoretic applications of substance P or a metabolically stable agonist analog, DiMeC7 [(pGlu5, MePhe8, MeGly9)-substance P5-11]. Response characteristics were distinguished from glutamate-induced excitations by a slower onset and longer duration of action. Recording sites of tachykinin-sensitive neurons were demonstrated to be located throughout the ventral pallidum and within high densities of fibers exhibiting substance P-like immunoreactivity. When behaving rats received microinjections of DiMeC7 into this same region, the animals displayed an increase in motor activity, with a response threshold of 0.1nmol per hemisphere. These results verify the existence of a substantial substance P-containing projection from the nucleus accumbens to the ventral pallidum. The projection likely serves to excite ventral pallidal neurons for these neurons readily increased firing following local exposure to tachykinins. Furthermore, an increase in motor behavior appears to be a consequence of this neuronal response.
The responses and orientation tuning in 48 out of 62 (77.4%) neurons of the cat striate cortex (area 17) significantly, but with different sign, changed at stimulation by specific cross-like figure flashing in receptive field as compared with single light bar of preferred orientation. Neurons of the first group (19 units from 62, 30.6%) were found to increase the responses by 3.3 times if stimulated by a certain cross-like figure, specific for each cell configuration and orientation. Under the same conditions, neurons of the second group (29 or 46.8% revealed a three-fold decrease of responses and all tuning characteristics worsened. Among them 8% of total number of cells showed bimodal or double orientation tuning when stimulated by some configurations of crosses due to an angle specific inhibition. Dependence of the revealed effects on excitatory convergence from neurons with different orientation tuning, on inhibitory influences from end-stop and side-zones of receptive field, as well as possible functional implication of the first group neurons for an angle and line-crossing detection are discussed.
Injection of quinolinic acid in the rat striatum mimics neurochemical changes observed in Huntington's disease. We previously demonstrated that intrastriatal transplantation of fetal striatum or gelfoam protects against toxicity induced by a subsequent intrastriatal injection of quinolinic acid performed one week later. Herein, we examined whether fetal striatum or sham transplantation provides protection against quinolinic acid that lasts up to four weeks. Intrastriatal quinolinic acid injection produces neuronal loss and gliosis in Nissl staining, loss of cytochrome oxidase histochemical staining, decrease in autoradiographic binding of [3H]SCH 23390-labeled dopamine D1 and [3H]CGS 21680-labeled adenosine A2 receptors, and increase in autoradiographic binding of [3H]PK 11195-labeled peripheral benzodiazepine binding sites. None of these changes was observed in rats transplanted with fetal striatum one, two or four weeks before quinolinic acid injection. In animals transplanted with fetal striatal tissue, Nissl staining showed healthy grafts located in normal appearing striata. Although sham transplantation performed one week before quinolinic acid injection also protected against histological, histochemical and binding changes, sham transplantation performed two or four weeks before quinolinic acid injection was less effective in attenuating quinolinic acid-induced striatal toxicity. Thus, sham transplantation provides transient protection against quinolinic acid-induced striatal toxicity, whereas implantation of tissue such as fetal striatum seems to be required for long-lasting protection. Our study suggests that intracerebral transplantation may also act through other mechanisms than restoration of deficient neurotransmitters or damaged pathways, a finding which may have significant clinical implications in assessing the potential benefit of this approach for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders such as Huntington's disease.



Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP)-like immunoreactivity was demonstrated by immunocytochemistry together with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-like immunoreactivity in small to medium-sized neurons in the trigeminal ganglion and in nerve fibers in the iris, ciliary body, cornea, choroid and sclera of the rabbit eye. The regional distribution of PACAP-27- and PACAP-38-like immunoreactivity in the eye was studied by radioimmunoassay: the highest concentrations were found in the iris sphincter and ciliary body. The distribution pattern resembled that of CGRP-like immunoreactivity, which is a well-known constituent of sensory C-fibre neurons. Intravitreal injection of PACAP-27 or PACAP-38 induced conjunctival hyperemia, swelling of the anterior segment of the eye, miosis and breakdown of the blood-aqueous barrier, manifested as a marked aqueous flare response. Tetrodotoxin pretreatment inhibited the conjunctival hyperemia, the swelling of the anterior segment of the eye, and the miosis but not the aqueous flare response. The concentration of PACAP-like immunoreactivity in the aqueous humor was increased greatly following infrared irradiation of the iris, topical application of formaldehyde to the cornea, or intravitreal injection of endotoxin or bovine serum albumin. Also the concentration of CGRP-like immunoreactivity in the aqueous humor was increased greatly. Both in vivo and in vitro studies showed that capsaicin caused a parallel release of PACAP-like immunoreactivity and CGRP-like immunoreactivity from the uvea. Injection of PACAP-27 and PACAP-38 resulted in the release of CGRP-like immunoreactivity (and PACAP-like immunoreactivity) into the aqueous humor and PACAP-27 and PACAP-38 were also found to evoke tachykinin-mediated contractions of the isolated iris sphincter muscle, indicating that PACAP induces positive feedback on C-fibres. Thus, PACAP is a sensory neuropeptide in the eye. Since the PACAP-induced ocular responses mimicked the symptoms of inflammation, and since the PACAP-like immunoreactivity concentration in the aqueous humor was greatly increased following noxious stimulation, we suggest that it takes part in the inflammatory responses of the rabbit eye.
A non-invasive microspectrofluorimetric technique was used to investigate experimentally induced changes in cell water volume in single N1E-115 murine neuroblastoma cells, using calcein, a derivative of fluorescein, as a marker of the intracellular water compartment. The osmotic behavior of N1E-115 cells exposed to media of various osmolalities was studied. Exposure to hyperosmotic (up to +28%) or hyposmotic (up to -17%) solutions produced reversible decreases and increases in cell water volume, respectively, which agreed with near-osmometric behavior. Increases in [Ca2+]i produced by exposing the cells to the ionophore ionomycin (1 microM) in isosmotic medium, resulted in a gradual decrease in cell water volume. Cells shrank to 40 +/- 7% (n = 7) below their initial water volume at an initial rate of -1.2 +/- 0.2%/min. It is concluded that N1E-115 cells are endowed with Ca2+-sensitive mechanisms for volume control, which can produce cell shrinkage when activated under isosmotic conditions. Because the technique used for measuring cell water volume changes is new, we describe it in detail. It is based on the principle that relative cell water volume in single cells can be measured by introducing an impermeant probe into cells and measuring its changes in concentration. If the intracellular content of the probe is constant, changes in its concentration reflect changes in cell water volume. Calcein was used as the probe because its fluorescence intensity is directly proportional to its concentration and independent of changes in the concentration of native intracellular ions within the physiological range. Because calcein is two to three times more fluorescent that other fluorophores such as 2,7,-bis-[2-carboxyethyl]-5-[and 6]-carboxyfluorescein or Fura-2, and it is used at its peak excitation and emission wavelengths, it has a better signal to noise ratio and baseline stability than the other dyes. Calcein can also be esterified allowing for cell loading and because of the possibility of reducing the intensity of the excitation light, measurements can be performed producing minimal photodynamic damage. The technique allows for measurements of cell water volume changes of &lt; 5% and it can be applied to single cells which can be grown or affixed to a rigid substratum, e.g., a coverslip.
End-plate potentials and miniature end-plate potentials were recorded focally (i.e., over a limited area of the end-plate with several or possibly only one active zone) in a cutaneous pectoris from neuromuscular junction during a prolonged (1-6 min) tetanic (20-100 Hz) nerve stimulation. End-plate potential amplitudes decreased and became more variable with prolonged stimulation. Synaptic depression thus occurs even when synaptic output is low, if release is evoked from only a few active zones, suggesting that there is little if any vesicular replenishment between the active zones. The probability density function of the end-plate potential amplitudes has been obtained using the Parzen estimate with a Gaussian weighting function, to reduce the number of end-plate potentials needed for the same accuracy. Quantal size of the end-plate potentials was estimated from the slope of the best fitted line to the prominent and apparently equidistant peaks of probability density functions or from the spectrogram of the probability density function of end-plate potentials. Quantal contents were initially (+/- S.D.):5.7 +/- 2.9, ranged from 2 to 12, and in all cases examined (n = 11) decreased with prolonged tetanic stimulation. The rates of the decrease of end-plate potentials amplitudes (and quantal contents) from different segments of the same nerve terminal were often different, even when they were initially comparable. This suggests that some active zones or some areas of the end-plates become depleted much faster than others. Quantal sizes of the nerve evoked and the spontaneously released quanta were generally similar at low frequencies of stimulation (0.5-2 Hz). Both decreased with high frequency stimulation, but the decrease of the quantal sizes of nerve evoked quanta was usually more pronounced. At different loci of the same end-plate the contribution of lower quantal size to the synaptic depression varied widely (from &lt; 5% to &gt; 80%). In conclusion lower quantal size can contribute significantly to synaptic depression. At uneven decrease of quantal sizes over the whole nerve terminal helps to explain both aspects of synaptic depression (lower synaptic efficacy and greater variability of quantal responses.
The binding of [3H]nisoxetine, a selective inhibitor of the high-affinity noradrenaline uptake sites, was studied on frontal frozen sections of the cat brain. The highest densities in autoradiographic signal were observed in the nucleus locus coeruleus and its ascending pathways, in the area postrema and in the dorsal part of the inferior olive, the pontine nuclei, the raphe nuclei, the colliculi, the periventricular and lateral areas of the hypothalamus, the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the nucleus accumbens and the olfactory bulb. A moderately high concentration of binding sites was observed in the hippocampal formation, especially in the molecular layer of Ammon's horn, in the superficial layers of the entorhinal cortex and in the indusium griseum. Binding sites were visualized in all the subdivisions of the neocortex. The highest density of binding was generally detected in the outer edge of the superficial layer I. In some cortical areas, especially in the visual cortex, labeling with a prevalent laminar distribution in the superficial layers I-III and in the deep layers V-VI was clearly observed. Moderate to low densities of binding sites were seen in most other areas of the brain except in the white matter, the caudate nucleus and putamen, which were devoid of labeling. Overall these findings indicate a good correlation between the distribution of [3H]nisoxetine binding sites and the noradrenergic systems. Furthermore, data suggest that in several areas, high-affinity noradrenaline reuptake mechanisms could play an important role in local interactions between the noradrenergic system and the other monoaminergic systems.
This study has utilized unilateral physiological pressure stimulation f a vascularly isolated carotid sinus combined with c-fos immunohistochemistry to locate neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarius which are activated by carotid baroreceptors in the anesthetized, vagotomized dog. Carotid baroreceptor stimulation primarily activated neurons in the ipsilateral commissural and medial subnuclei of the caudal nucleus tractus solitarius. In the intermediate and rostral nucleus tractus solitarius, carotid baroreceptor stimulation activated neurons in the dorsal and medial subnuclei. Results from this study also suggested that different subgroups of nucleus tractus solitarius neurons may be activated by baroreceptors with different pressure thresholds. The use of c-fos immunohistochemistry in this study has enabled the definition of populations of dorsal medullary neurons in the carotid baroreflex pathway. The results also suggest a different projection of carotid baroreceptors with different pressure thresholds.
In the decerebrated and spinalized rabbit, reflexes evoked in the gastrocnemius medialis muscle nerve by electrical stimulation of teh sural nerve are suppressed after blockade of NK-tachykinin receptors. This observation suggests that endogenous tachykinins tonically enhance transmission between sural nerve afferents and gastrocnemius motoneurons. In the present study we have investigated some possible sources of this tachykininergic tone. Electrical stimulation of the sural nerve at 1 Hz, as used in our previous investigation, leads to increased gastrocnemius reflex responses with successive stimuli. We examined reflexes evoked by pairs of sural stimuli separated by intervals of 10-1000 ms, and found that responses to the second stimuli of such pairs were significantly enhanced at intervals from 50 to 500 ms. Treatment with the NK receptor antagonist CP-99,994 [(+)-(2S,3S)-3-(2-methoxybenzylamino)-2-phenylpiperidine; 1 mg/kg, i.v.] reduced gastrocnemius reflex responses per se, but did not alter the facilitatory effects of pairing sural stimuli. Subsequent treatment with the glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blocker dizocilpine (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.) further reduced reflex responses and abolished paired-pulse facilitation. In a second set of experiments, rabbits were prepared so that reflexes could be studied with minimal surgical preparation of the hindlimb. Reflex responses recorded in this way were enhanced by treatment with CP-99,994 (up to 1 mg/kg, i.v.). Subsequent administration of the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (1-10 microg/kg, i.v.) increased reflexes, as seen previously in surgically-prepared animals. These data show that tachkininergic modulation of spinal reflexes in the rabbit results from the nociceptive input arising from surgical preparation of the leg. In contrast, tonic opioidergic inhibition of reflexes is not substantially dependent on such input.
Animals will respond with stress-like behavioral and biochemical changes when exposed to a neutral stimulus that had previously been paired with a stressful stimulus. This phenomenon is generally known as aversive conditioning or conditioned fear. We tested the effect of prior exposure to cocaine on rats subjected to an aversive conditioning paradigm. Rats were given repeated doses of cocaine to develop a reverse tolerance or sensitization to the locomotor stimulant properties of cocaine. We blocked this sensitization to cocaine in one cocaine-exposed group by co-administering an antagonist of the strychinine-insensitive glycine site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex, R-(+)-HA-966, which prevented the development of locomotor sensitization to cocaine. After about three weeks, we examined the effect of cocaine sensitization and the prevention of sensitization by R-(+)-HA-966 on aversive conditioning. Rats were exposed to 10 tones (neutral stimuli) paired with footshock (stressful stimuli) over 30 min for the conditioning session. The following day, rts were returned to the cages, received 10 tones only over 30 min and were killed. No drugs were given to any rat before either session and control rats received the tones without footshock in both sessions. Prior exposure to cocaine caused an attenuation of the behavioral effects of aversive conditioning, namely the amount of time spent immobilized and the number of fecal boli expelled. Additionally, the elevated metabolic activity of dopamine in the medial prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area associated with aversive conditioning was diminished in rats pre-exposed to cocaine. The behavioral and biochemical effects of pre-exposure to cocaine were reversed in rats that receive R-(+)-HA-966 co-treatment with the five day cocaine sensitization regimen. These data suggest that prior behavioral sensitization to cocaine diminishes the stressful effect of conditioned fear and that these effects are reversed when sensitization is prevented with R-(+)-HA-966.
[3H]Noradrenaline release was studied in cultured sympathetic neurons derived from superior cervical ganglia of neonatal rats. Acetylcholine elicited a concentration- and time-dependent increase in 3H outflow which was half-maximal at about 300 microM and within 5 s. The overflow induced by 10 s exposure to 300 micro A acetylcholine was reduced by the nicotinic antagonist hexamethonium, but increased by the muscarinic antagonist atropine. Cd2+ (300 microM) prevented the overflow evoked by electrical field stimulation, but reduced acetylcholine-induced overflow by less than 50%. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ abolished stimulation-evoked tritium overflow irrespective of the stimulus. The selective alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist UK 14,304 inhibited acetylcholine-evoked overflow to a significantly smaller extent (approximately 25% maximal inhibition) than electrically induced overflow ( &gt; or = 45% maximal inhibition). These inhibitory effects were antagonized by the alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine. Noradrenaline (0.1 microM) reduced acetylcholine-evoked overflow to the same extent as did UK 14,304 (0.1 microM). UK 14,304 had no effect when 3H overflow was evoked by acetylcholine in the presence of 300 microM Cd2+. Currents through nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and voltage-activated Ca2+ currents were studied with the whole-cell variant of teh patch-clamp technique. UK 14,304 reduced nicotinic acetylcholine receptor currents and voltage-activated Ca2+ currents with similar potency and efficacy. Yohimbine, however, antagonized only the inhibition of voltage-activated Ca2+ currents, but not the effects of UK 14,304 on nicotinic receptor currents. Furthermore, yohimbine per se reduced currents through nicotinic receptors. Noradrenaline (10 microM) inhibited voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents just as did UK 14,304 (10 microM), but failed to reduce currents through nicotinic acetylcholine receptor channels. Cd2+ (300 microM) abolished voltage-activated Ca2+ currents and reduced nicotinic acetylcholine receptor currents by 65%. These results indicate that acetylcholine evokes noradrenaline release from rat sympathetic neurons by activation of nicotinic receptors and restricts this release via muscarinic receptors. The acetylcholine-induced transmitter release is based on two mechanisms, one involving and the other one bypassing voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. alpha2-Adrenoceptor activation reduces voltage-activated Ca2+ currents and effects exclusively the component of acetylcholine-induced release which involves voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. These results support the hypothesis that voltage-activated Ca2+ channels are the sole site of autoinhibitory alpha2-adrenergic effects on transmitter release from rat sympathetic neurons. The inhibitory effects of alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists on currents through nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are not mediated by an alpha2-adrenoceptor.
Both acute central administration of exogenous, and stress-induced release of endogenous corticotropin-releasing factor result in electrophysiological activation of the noradrenergic neurons constituting the locus coeruleus. The present experiments were designed to examine whether single (1) or repeated (8) intracerebroventricular pretreatment with exogenous corticotropin-releasing factor would alter locus coeruleus electrophysiological responsivity to subsequent corticotropin-releasing factor challenge in rats. A single corticotropin-releasing factor (3 microg) pretreatment significantly attenuated challenge-induced locus coeruleus activation 24 and 72, but no 96 h later, while a single vehicle pretreatment had no significant effect on the response to subsequent challenge at any pretreatment-to-test interval. Repeated pretreatment with either corticotropin-releasing factor or vehicle completely attenuated locus coeruleus response to challenge 24 h after the final pretreatment. Seventy-two hours after the last vehicle pretreatment, challenge resulted in a significant increase in locus coeruleus activity, though the response was less than in naive controls. Challenge continued to produce no effect on locus coeruleus activity in repeated corticotropin-releasing factor-pretreated rats at this (72 h) time point. One week (168 h) after the cessation of repeated pretreatment, challenge resulted in a significant increase in locus coeruleus activity which was equal to that of naive controls in vehicle-pretreated rats, but reduced by comparison to controls in corticotropin-releasing factor-pretreated rats. Basal discharge rates of locus coeruleus neurons 24 h after the last repeated corticotropin-releasing factor pretreatment were significantly less than in naive controls. Thus, the failure of challenge to increase neuronal activity in these rats was not due to a &quot;ceiling&quot; effect caused by elevated tonic discharge rate. Repeated vehicle pretreatment produced a functional change similar to that produced by exogenous corticotropin-releasing factor administration. One hypothesis is that repeated vehicle pretreatment was stressful and caused the repeated release of endogenous corticotropin-releasing factor. This hypothesis was tested by determining whether locus coeruleus neurons remained responsive to challenge following repeated administration of a corticotropin-releasing factor antagonist. Thus, the effect if repeated pretreatment with the antagonist, [D-Phe, Nle, Calpha MeLeu]CRF was also examined. Challenge resulted ina significant increase in discharge rate 24 h after the final antagonist pretreatment, providing support for the hypothesis. Additionally, in rats repeatedly pretreated with vehicle, carbachol challenge induced an increase in locus coeruleus activity equal to that induced in naive controls. These results indicate that prior exposure to corticotropin-releasing factor, or the repeated mild stress of vehicle infusions, reduces locus coeruleus responsiveness to corticotropin-releasing factor, and reveal that the relationship between these two neurotransmitter systems is modifiable. This altered relationship may contribute to stress-related affective disorders in which both systems have been implicated.
The effect intracerebroventricular injections of angiotensin II (0.1 nm), angiotensin-(1-7) (1 or 100 nm) and carbachol (500 ng) on c-fos expression was examined in the forebrain of Lister hooded rats. Intense staining of the c-Fos protein was found in the median preoptic nucleus, organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, subfornical organ, paraventricular nucleus and supraoptic nucleus after angiotensin II and carbachol Angiotensin II caused significantly more c-fos expression in the ventral median preoptic nucleus and organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis than carbachol, whereas in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei this was reversed, with carbachol having a greater effect on c-fos expression in these areas. Angiotensin-(1-7), however, only induced c-Fos protein in the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and median preoptic nucleus with the number and the intensity of staining of the nuclei significantly less in both areas than after angiotensin II or carbachol. Separate groups of Lister rats were given i.c.v. injections of the same substances at the same doses, but excluding the lower dose of angiotensin-(1-7), and the intakes of water and 1.8% NaCl over 60 min were measured. Angiotensin II stimulated intakes of both water and NaCl. The effect on water intake was almost immediate (&lt;1 min), whereas NaCl intake did not usually start until at least 5 min after injection. Over 60 min, water (12.4 +/- 1.0 ml) and NaCl (4.2 +/- 0.9 ml) intakes were significantly greater than water (1.1 +/- 0.2 ml) and NaCl (0.6 +/- 0.5 ml) intakes of the controls. Carbachol caused less drinking than angiotensin II, the water intake over 60 min being significantly less (4.8 +/- 0.7 ml) and the latency of response greater (&gt;5 min). Carbachol, unlike angiotensin II, had little effect on NaCl intake (0.7 +/- 0.4 ml). Angiotensin-(1-7) had no effect on water (1.1 +/- 0.3 ml) or NaCl (0.3 +/- 0.3 ml) intakes. The plasma levels of vasopressin were measured after i.c.v. injection of the same three substances in the same doses, again excluding the lower dose of angiotensin-(1-7), in further groups of rats. Angiotensin II and carbachol caused an approximate five-fold increase in plasma vasopressin levels compared to cerebrospinal fluid-injected rats, but angiotensin-(1-7) had no effect on vasopressin release. Therefore, three compounds with widely differing effects on thirst, sodium appetite and vasopressin release induce distinctive patterns of c-fos protein expression in the forebrain. By combining experimental approaches in this way it is possible to determine areas of the brain which are involved in certain behavioural and endocrine responses.
Previous electrophysiological studies have shown that spontaneously active mesencephalic 5-hydroxytryptaminergic neurons of anaesthetized or freely moving animals fire solitary spikes in a slow, regular pattern. In the present study, using extracellular single unit recordings from dorsal and median raphe neurons of the anaesthetized rat, an additional electrophysiological property of a sub-population of presumed 5-hydroxytryptaminergic neurons was observed. These neurons, during their otherwise regular firing pattern, repeatedly fired two (or occasionally three or even four) spikes where only one was expected. Spikes in this burst-like repetitive firing mode (spikes in doublets or triplets) occurred in a short time interval (range: 2.4-11.5 ms), and with a diminishing spike amplitude. Cross-correlation analysis of spikes in doublets revealed a very high interdependency between them. The proportion of spikes in doublets to solitary spikes showed great variation between different neurons, ranging from 5 to 95% of the total spikes displayed. However, for each neuron the proportion of spikes in doublets to solitary spikes, and the time interval between the spikes in doublets, remained constant during control recordings. All these features are characteristic of single neurons firing in a repetitive firing pattern rather than simultaneous recordings of two separate 5-hydroxytryptaminergic neurons. Repetitive firing neurons were recorded with a similar frequency in both chloral hydrate and Saffan anaesthetized rats, and were detected using both glass and metal electrodes. Furthermore, neurons with a repetitive firing pattern were inhibited by intravenous administration of a selective 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor agonist and a 5-hydroxytryptamine reuptake inhibitor, thus displaying responses typical of 5-hydroxytryptaminergic neurons. Repetitive firing neurons occurred in both the dorsal and median raphe nuclei, although they were much more frequent in the dorsal raphe nucleus (91 of 332 neurons). The occurrence of repetitive firing neurons in the midbrain raphe nuclei is a newly described phenomenon which may indicate unique properties of a sub-population of 5-hydroxytryptaminergic neurons. In functional terms, it could modify both axonal and dendritic 5-hydroxytryptamine release, and provide an additional option for neuronal information signalling.
The development of microglia involves the expression of a phenotype displaying phagocytic behaviour termed brain macrophage or amoeboid microglial cell. We have previously shown that rat brain macrophages purified in vitro secrete thrombospondin, an extracellular matrix protein, which acts on cultured neuronal cells by promoting neurite growth. In the present study, the expression of thrombospondin was investigated in tissue sections of the developing rat forebrain in relation to the distribution of microglia. These cells were identified using anti-macrophage antibodies and the isolectin B4 from Bandeiraea simplicifolia. Immunocytochemical detection of thrombospondin clearly outlined a cell population displaying the morphologies and distribution of brain macrophages, from the 17th day of embryonic life up to the end of the second postnatal week. These cells were most numerous in cortical and subcortical regions of developing fibre tracts such as the corpus callosum or the internal capsule. The localization of thrombospondin in brain macrophages was confirmed by double immunostaining using ED1 monoclonal anti-macrophage antibodies. Ramified microglial cells were also labelled transiently by anti-thrombospondin antibodies during early postnatal life. These results provide in situ evidence supporting the notion that microglial cells could favour axonal growth by producing thrombospondin during development.
The large number of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes suggests diverse roles in brain function, although specific distribution patterns can give clues to subtype-specific functions [Hayashi Y. et al. (1993) Nature 366, 687-690; Nakajima Y. et al. (1993) J. biol. Chem. 268, 11868-11873; Nomura A. et al. (1994) Cell 77, 361-369; Ohishi H. et al. (1993), 1009-1018]. The metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR7 is sensitive to the agonist L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid, a presynaptic inhibitor of neurotransmitter release. We examined the anatomic distribution of mGluR7 messenger RNA expression by in situ hybridization in the developing and adult rat central nervous systems. Our results demonstrate that mGluR7 messenger RNA is among the most widely distributed of metabotropic glutamate receptors in both the developing and adult rat nervous system and that mGluR7 messenger RNA is expressed in most neuronal groups known to respond to L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid, including mitral cells of the olfactory bulb, granule cells of the dentate gyrus and neurons of the entorhinal cortex and dorsal root ganglion. mGluR7 exhibits preferential expression in sensory afferent pathways and is highly represented in the periventricular zone of the hypothalamus, the latter implying a modulatory role for mGluR7 in neuroendocrine pathways. Most strikingly, the majority of neurons at all levels of olfactory circuitry are among the areas of highest mGluR7 messenger RNA content. The anatomic distribution of mGluyR7 messenger RNA suggests that mGluR7 activation may participate in the processing of hippocampal, sensory and olfactory information.
The two isoforms of the rat dopamine D2 receptor are generated by alternative splicing of the pre-messenger RNA and differ in the length of their third cytoplasmic loop involved in coupling to G-proteins. As quantified by polymerase chain reaction, the long isoform D2L is predominant in the pituitary gland, the striatum and to a lesser extend in the olfactory tubercle, whereas the short isoform D2S is relatively more abundant in the hypothalamus and the substantia nigra. Changes in circulating sex hormone levels modulated the splicing without affecting the total amount of D2 receptor messenger RNA. Castration of male rats increased the ratio D2L/D2S in the pituitary, hypothalamus and substantia nigra, and decreased it in the olfactory tubercle. Testosterone substitution reversed the effect of castration in the pituitary and olfactory tubercle but not in the substantia nigra. In castrated rats, 17beta-estradiol had a similar effect to that of testosterone in the olfactory tubercle, indicating that testosterone may act after aromatization of estradiol. In the hypothalamus, 17beta-estradiol alone reversed the effect of castration. In the striatum, neither castration nor hormonal treatments modified the splicing of the D2 receptor mRNA. Treatment of animals with specific androgen and estrogen receptor blockers confirmed that steroids were acting through their specific intracellular receptors. These observations suggest a molecular mechanism, physiologically relevant, by which circulating sex hormones could modulate dopamine transmission in areas implicated in reproductive and parental behaviours.
The Purkinje cells are among the largest cells in the central nervous system and are the output cells of the cerebellar cortex. They are, therefore, of special interest in cerebellar diseases. The estimation of total number and mean perikaryon and nuclear volume of Purkinje cells in five normal human and nine rat cerebella were obtained using unbiased methods based on stereological principles. The average total number of Purkinje cells was 30.5 x 10(6) (Coefficient of variation, CD = S.D./mean = 0.13) in humans and 0.61 x 10(6) (0.21) in rats. Thus the total number of Purkinje cells was 50 times higher in the human cerebellum compared with rats, while numerical density (number/mm3) was 13 times lower in humans (0.81 x 10(3)) compared with rats (10.1 x 10(3)). An unbiased stereological principle, the nucleator, was applied to estimate the volume of Purkinje cell perikarya and nuclei. In humans the average geometric mean volume of Purkinje cell perikaryon is 12,400 microm3 (interindividual coefficient of variation = 0.08), which is about three times larger than in rats, 4900 microm3 (CVi = 0.09). The intraindividual distributional variation (CVd) in perikaryon volume is much larger in humans compared to rats (CVd = 0.72 vs 0.32). One of the differences between the two species is the simple proportionality between perikaryon and nucleus size i humans, whereas larger Purkinje cells have relatively larger nuclei in the rat.
In the dentate gyrus, granule cells are ischemia-resistant, but at least five types of predominantly spiny hilar neurons are extremely vulnerable to ischemia. Many of the ischemia-sensitive subtypes of hilar neurons appear to be involved in: (i) the regulation of GABAergic inhibition in the dentate gyrus, and (ii) the generation of hilar neuronal synchrony. The present study examined functional consequences of ischemia-induced hilar neuronal loss on GABAergic inhibition of granule cells and hilar neuronal synchrony. Transient (15 min) forebrain ischemia was induced by a modification of the four-vessel-occlusion method producing a substantial hilar neuronal loss as demonstrated by the Gallyas silver stain method. Three months later, we have examined spontaneous and stimulus-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents mediated by both GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors, and inhibitory bursts induced by 4-aminopyridine (50 microM) using whole-cell recordings in coronal brain slices maintained at 34-36 degree C in the presence of excitatory amino acid receptor blockers. Spontaneous dentate spikes reflecting hilar neuronal synchrony and synaptic responses evoked by perforant path stimulation were also recorded in vivo to assess synchrony and inhibition in the dentate gyrus. In spite of significant damage to several types of hilar neurons, there were no marked differences in the conductance, kinetics, and 4-aminopyridine-induced burst frequencies of synaptic GABA(A) and GABA(B) responses in granule cells. Furthermore, both paired-pulse inhibition and dentate spikes appeared to be normal in vivo. We conclude that there appears to be little impairment of GABAergic inhibition of granule cells or of hilar neuronal synchrony three months following a massive ischemic damage to spiny hilar neurons.
Influences of post mortem time interval, subject age and Alzheimer's disease were investigated on several components of the phosphoinositide second messenger system, including stimulation of [3H]phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis by GTP[S] and several receptor agonists and the levels of Galphaq, beta, delta and gamma subtypes of phospholipase C, and five protein kinase C isoforms, in membranes prepared from post mortem human prefrontal cortex. Most of these components were stable with post mortem delays in the range of 5-21 h, but decreases of Galphaq and the alpha and xi protein kinase C subtypes were detected. Within the subject age range of 19-100 years, G-protein- and agonist-induced [3H]phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis decreased, as did levels of Galphaq, but the levels of phospholipase C and protein kinase C subtypes were generally unchanged. In Alzheimer's disease, compared with age- and post mortem interval-matched controls, there was a decrease in [3H]phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis stimulated by G-proteins and by several receptor agonists, but the levels of Galphaq and most of the phospholipase C and protein kinase C isoforms were unaffected. The greatest deficits, which were &gt;50%, occurred with GTP[S]- and carbachol-induced [3H]phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis, indicating that this G-protein function and the response to cholinergic stimulation are significantly impaired in Alzheimer's disease. In summary a comprehensive assessment of several components of the phosphoinositide second messenger system was made in post mortem human brain. Most elements were stable within the post mortem interval range of 5-21 h, lending validity to measurements using these tissues. Significant age-related reductions in several components were identified, indicating loss of responses with increasing age. Most importantly, severe reductions in responses to several stimuli were found in Alzheimer's disease brain, deficits in signal transduction which may contribute to impaired cognition and to the limited therapeutic responses to drugs, such as those used to activate cholinergic receptors coupled with the phosphoinositide system.
On guinea-pig neocortical slices the spatial organization of dendrites sensitive to excitatory amino acids was studied. Extracellular recording were obtained from the the soma of layer V neurons. Responses of 135 neurons to iontophoretically applied glutamate or aspartate have been analysed. An increased firing rate to somatic and most of dendritic applications were of short latency not exceeding 500 ms. Dendritic applications caused somatic responses with far longer latencies (up to 2-3 s) in 18% of cases. Latencies of responses to excitatory amino acids applied to several dendritic sites of the same neuron had similar values. The greatest reactions were obtained in response to excitatory amino acids imposed to the soma and proximal dendrites. At a distance of 100 microm beyond the soma in the basal region and region and further than 300 microm in the apical region excitatory amino acid applications produced two to three times less intensive somatic response. The area where dendritic activation gave rise to change in neuronal firing was confined to 350 and 800 microm for basal and apical dendrites, respectively. Topography of effective dendritic sites fell into the area corresponding to anatomically known outline of dendritic tree of pyramidal neurons. This fact implies that in our experiments we basically dealt with layer V pyramids. The results obtained suggest that local activation of distal dendrites may elicit spike generation in the soma. Different electrical properties of somatic and dendritic membranes are discussed.
Four-layered microgyria is associated with many developmental disorders, including mental retardation, epilepsy, and developmental dyslexia. Freezing lesions to the newborn rodent neocortex result in the formation of four-layered microgyria. Previous research had suggested this type of injury acts as an hypoxic/ischemic event to the developing cortical plate. The current study examines the effectiveness of the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) in protecting against freezing injury to the newborn rat cortical plate. Three groups of rats received freezing injury to the cortical plate on the first day of life (postnatal day 1). Two groups were treated with MK-801 (1 or 2 mg/kg) 0.5 h before the lesion and 6 and 14 h after, while one group received saline injections. A fourth group received MK-801 injections, but did not have a freezing lesion. The volume of neocortical abnormality was determined for all three groups in rats killed after postnatal day 7. Treatment with the higher dose of MK-801 (3 x 2 mg/kg) dramatically reduced the effects of freezing injury but also resulted in over 50% mortality in both lesioned and unlesioned groups. Animals in the lesioned group, however, had a decreased volume of abnormal cortex, and there were fewer animals with microsulci than in the untreated group. This is the first demonstration of a significant anatomical neuroprotective effect in newborns leading to a reduction of cortical malformation.
Accumulating evidence suggests that serotonin may modulate cholinergic function in several regions of the mammalian brain and that these serotonergic/cholinergic interactions influence cognition. The first part of this review is an overview of histological, electrophysiological and pharmacological (in vitro, in vivo) data indicating that, in several brain regions (e.g., hippocampus, cortex and striatum), there are neuroanatomical substrates for a serotonergic/cholinergic interaction, and that alterations in serotonergic activity may induce functional changes in cholinergic neurons. In the second part, the review focuses on experimental approaches showing or suggesting that central cholinergic and serotonergic mechanisms are cooperating in the regulation of cognitive functions. These arguments are based on lesion, intracerebral grafting and pharmacological techniques. It is concluded that not all mnesic perturbations induced by concurrent manipulations of the serotonergic and cholinergic systems can be attributed to a serotonergic modification of the cholinergic system. The cognitive faculties of an organism arise from interactions among several neurotransmitter systems within brain structures such as, for instance, the hippocampus or the cortex, but also from influences on memory of other general functions that may involve cerebral substrates different from those classically related to mnesic functions (e.g., attention, arousal, sensory accuracy, etc.).
While B2 receptors mediate pain and hyperalgesia induced by bradykinin, in normal rats, recent reports indicate that, in the setting of inflammation, B1 receptors also mediate pain and hyperalgesia. Since bradykinin-induced hyperalgesia in normal rats is mediated by prostaglandins released from the postganglionic sympathetic neurons, we have evaluated the contribution of the sympathetic nervous system to the hyperalgesia induced by bradykinin, a preferential B2-receptor agonist, and des-Arg9-bradykinin, a major metabolite of bradykinin and a selective B1-receptor agonist. Mechanical hyperalgesia was quantified by the Randall-Selitto paw-withdrawal method. Inflammation was induced by injecting Complete Freund's Adjuvant into the left hindpaw of the rat and testing mechanical nociceptive threshold in the right hindpaw after injecting B1 or B2 agonists and/or antagonists. Sympathectomy was achieved by surgically removing sympathetic ganglia L1-L4. Rats were used 48 h post-adjuvant injection. In the normal rat, intradermal injection of bradykinin but not des-Arg9-bradykinin, into the dorsal surface of the hindpaw, produced a dose-dependent decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold. NPC 17731, a B2-receptor antagonist, but not des-Arg9-[Leu8]-bradykinin, a B1-receptor antagonist, almost completely inhibited the decrease in mechanical threshold, suggesting that bradykinin hyperalgesia in the normal rat hindpaw was mediated by B2 receptors. In rats whose left paws were treated, 48 h earlier, with adjuvant, intradermal injection of bradykinin or des-Arg9-bradykinin, into the right paw produced dose-dependent hyperalgesia. Bradykinin hyperalgesia was partially inhibited by NPC 17731, and the residual part by des-Arg9,[Leu8]-bradykinin. des-Arg9-bradykinin hyperalgesia was inhibited by des-Arg9,[Leu8]-bradykinin but not by NPC17731. These results suggest that in the setting of inflammation, bradykinin hyperalgesia was mediated by both B1 and B2 receptors, and that des-Arg9-bradykinin hyperalgesia was mediated by the B1 receptor. Forty-eight hours after injection of complete Freund's adjuvant, in sympathectomized rats, bradykinin or des-Arg9-bradykinin failed to produce hyperalgesia, suggesting that intact sympathetic postganglionic neurons are required for the hyperalgesia produced by these agents in this model. These results are consistent with the suggestions that B2 receptors mediate bradykinin-induced cutaneous hyperalgesia in the normal rat hindpaw. The hyperalgesia induced by bradykinin, 48 h post injection of complete Freund's adjuvant is mediated by both B1 and B2 receptors, that by des-Arg9-bradykinin is mediated by B1 receptors. The hyperalgesia induced by both agents is dependent on the presence of intact sympathetic postganglionic neurons.
Recent physiological experiments in our laboratory suggest that extraocular muscle proprioceptive signals are involved in oculomotor control in the pigeon [e.g., Knox and Donaldson (1993) Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B 253, 77-82]; the present results provide information about the primary afferent pathway involved in these actions. In other physiological experiments [Hayman et al. (1993) Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B 254, 115-122] we have shown that extraocular muscle afferent signals modify vestibularly driven neck reflexes in the pigeon; the present results suggest an anatomical substrate for these effects. The localization of the cell bodies and of the central terminations of afferent fibres from the extraocular muscles of the pigeon was examined using transport of horseradish peroxidase. The results showed that primary afferent cell somata subserving extraocular muscle proprioception are located within the ipsilateral trigeminal ganglion. The presence of heavily labelled brainstem neurons reported in a previous study [Eden et al. (1982) Brain Res. 237, 15-21] was confirmed; however, these cells were shown to be accessory abducens motoneurons innervating the quadratus muscle, and presumably the pyramidalis muscle also, and not proprioceptive afferent somata as had been suggested. The central projections of extraocular muscle afferent neurons were found consistently in a restricted area of the external cuneate nucleus. This is in contrast to findings in a number of mammals in which the terminal label has been seen to cluster in portions of the spinal trigeminal nucleus. The presence of a lateral trigeminal tract in the pigeon, through which the afferent axons course, which terminates exclusively in the ventral portion of the external cuneate nucleus may explain this finding.
The extracellularly recorded activity of medial vestibular nucleus neurons and efferent vestibular neurons was analysed in the decerebrate decerebellate guinea-pig. Neurons were identified by means of electrical stimulation of the anterior semicircular canal. Thirty-six neurons were monosynaptically activated during semicircular canal stimulation. These cells were regarded as second-order vestibular neurons. Thirty neurons were antidromically activated and therefore identified as efferent vestibular neurons. Both types of neurons investigated had spontaneous impulse activity. All neurons responded to sinusoidal roll tilt. All the second-order vestibular neurons were excited during ipsilateral tilt and inhibited by contralateral tilt. Eighteen efferent vestibular neurons also showed this pattern, while the remaining 12 were excited by contralateral tilt and inhibited by ipsilateral tilt. Some neurons responded to passive forelimb extension or pressure of the forelimb plantar surface; none of the neurons responded to passive forelimb flexion or light plantar touch. Eleven second-order neurons (30%) were excited by somatosensory stimuli, seven (20%) were inhibited and 18 (50%) showed no response. Twenty efferent neurons (67%) were excited by somatosensory stimuli, none were inhibited and 10 (33%) showed no response. The responses of vestibular neurons to somatosensory stimulation are discussed with respect to their importance in vestibulospinal control during locomotion.
Recordings were made from neurons in intact pre- and paravertebral guinea-pig sympathetic ganglia using intracellular microelectrodes. Fast excitatory synaptic responses were evoked by stimulation of preganglionic and peripheral nerve trunks. Suramin (0.1-1 mM) did not affect passive or active membrane properties, nor the amplitude or decay time-course of either synaptic potentials or synaptic currents. Synaptic responses were reversibly reduced in amplitude by hexamethonium (98.7 +/- 0.8%, 50-1000 microM) and d-tubocurarine (95.3 +/- 2.6%, 10-280 microM). ATP (0.5-1 mM) and alpha,beta-methylene ATP (1-40 microM) applied in the bathing solution produced no significant changes in resting membrane potential or input resistance. Prolonged application (up to 25 min) of either compound was also without effect on synaptic responses. These substances also did not affect ganglion cells axotomized one to five days in vivo. These data suggest that activation of P2X-purinoceptors is not involved in the generation of fast excitatory synaptic responses in intact guinea-pig sympathetic ganglia. It appears that dissociation of these neurons must markedly increase their sensitivity to purine nucleotides.
The aims of this study were: (i) verify the usefulness of the recently described non-peptide antagonist, SR 142801, for blocking tachykinin NK3 receptors in the circular muscle of the guinea-pig colon and (ii) after occlusion of NK3 receptors by SR 142801, test the hypothesis that tachykinins may activate non-adrenergic non-cholinergic inhibitory neurons via non-NK3 receptors. In sucrose gap, we found that SR 142801 (0.1 microM) time-dependently inhibited the senktide-induced atropine (1 microM)-sensitive depolarization, action potentials and contractions of circular muscle of guinea-pig colon without affecting the cholinergic excitatory junction potential and contraction produced by single pulse electrical field stimulation. Likewise, SR 142801 (0.1 microM) time-dependently inhibited the senktide-induced non-adrenergic non-cholinergic hyperpolarization and relaxation of the circular muscle, without affecting the non-adrenergic non-cholinergic inhibitory junction potentials and relaxation produced by single pulse electrical field stimulation. Therefore, SR 142801 is a suitable tool to occlude neuronal NK3 receptors in guinea-pig colon. In the presence of SR 142801 (0.1 microM), atropine (1 microM), guanethidine (3 microM), indomethacin (3 microM) and nifedipine (1 microM) superfusion with neurokinin A (0.3 microM) produced depolarization on which a series of inhibitory junction potentials were superimposed. The incidence, number and amplitude of the inhibitory junction potentials evoked by neurokinin A was partly reduced by pretreatment with either apamin (0.1 microM) or L-nitroarginine (30 microM) and was totally blocked by pretreatment with apamin plus L-nitroarginine or by tetrodotoxin (1 microM). None of these treatments affected the depolarization and contraction produced by neurokinin A. The NK1 receptor selective antagonist, GR 82,334 (3 microM), did not affect the responses to neurokinin A, which were abolished by the NK2 receptor-selective antagonist GR 94,800 (0.1 microM). Substance P (0.3 microM) produced a large depolarization of the membrane but was poorly effective in producing superimposed inhibitory junction potentials. The NK1 receptor-selective agonist [Sar9]substance P sulfone (0.3 microM) produced large depolarization without inducing superimposed inhibitory junction potentials, while the NK2 receptor-selective synthetic agonist [beta-Ala8]neurokinin A(4-10) (0.3 microM) produced depolarization and superimposed inhibitory junction potentials. We conclude that neurokinin A, in addition to direct excitation and contraction of circular muscle activates, via neuronal NK2 receptors, inhibitory non-adrenergic non-cholinergic motorneurons. Thus, neuronal NK2 receptors should be considered as targets for endogenous tachykinins in enteric circuitries leading to descending relaxation in guinea-pig colon.
Voltage-gated Ca2+ currents were investigated in a subpopulation of dorsal root ganglion neurons (large diameter, neurofilament-positive) acutely isolated from 13-day-old mouse embryos and recorded using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Low- and high-voltage-activated calcium currents were recorded. These currents could be identified and separated by their distinct (i) threshold of activation, (ii) ability to run-up during the early phase of recording and (iii) decay kinetics using Ba2+ instead of Ca2+ as the charge carrier. Among high-voltage-activated currents, L-, N- and P-type Ca2+ currents were identified by their sensitivity to, respectively, the dihydropyridine agonist Bay K 8644 (5 microM) and antagonist nitrendipine (3 microM), omega-conotoxin GVIA (3 microM) and omega-agatoxin IVA (30 nM). In the combined presence of nitrendipine (3 microM), omega-conotoxin GVIA (3 microM) and omega-agatoxin IVA (30 nM), two additional high-voltage-activated components were detected. One, blocked by 500 nM omega-conotoxin MVIIC and 1 microM omega-agatoxin IVA, had properties similar to those of the Q-type Ca2+ current first reported in cerebellar granule cells. The other, defined by its resistance to saturating concentrations of all the blockers mentioned above applied in combination, resembles the R-type Ca2+ current also described in cerebellar granule cells. In conclusion, embryonic sensory neurons appear to express a large repertoire of voltage-activated Ca2+ currents with distinct pharmacological properties. This diversity suggests a great variety of pathways for Ca2+ signaling which may support different functions during development.
During central nervous system development, gradients of diffusible molecules play an important role in the attraction of outgrowing axons. A diffusible tropic factor released by the cervical spinal gray matter attracts outgrowing corticospinal tract axons, as shown by in vitro collagen co-culture studies [Joosten E. A. J. et al. (1994) Neuroscience 59, 33-41]. Here we study the effects of local application of timed cervical spinal gray matter extracts on regrowth of injured corticospinal tract axons in the adult rat spinal cord. For local application of target-derived extracts at the site of lesion we used rat tail collagen type 1 as a matrix. Ingrowth of anterogradely labelled corticospinal tract axons into the collagen was studied four weeks after the spinal cord injury. No ingrowth of labelled corticospinal tract axons can be observed in the control experiment when collagen only was applied into the lesion gap. Furthermore, we found that local application of an extract derived from four-day, but not from one-day or 16-day-old, cervical spinal cord gray matter directs a substantial amount of the lesioned adult corticospinal tract axons into the collagen implant. We conclude that directional regrowth of injured corticospinal tract axons in the adult rat spinal cord is possible by local application of timed target-derived extracts. In this respect spatiotemporal aspects are of the utmost importance.
The aim of this study, conducted in anaesthetized rats, was to examine the morphology of barosensitive neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla and their immunoreactivity for a catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase. Thirty neurons displaying inhibitory postsynaptic potentials following stimulation of the aortic depressor nerve were intracellularly labelled with Lucifer Yellow or Neurobiotin. Some of these neurons could be excited antidromically from the second thoracic segment of the spinal cord, with conduction velocities of spinal axons ranging from 1.9 to 7.2 m/s. The filled somas were found immediately caudal to the facial nucleus and ventral or ventromedial to compact formation of the nucleus ambiguus. Some dendrites reached the ventral medullary surface. Axons usually projected dorsomedially and then made a sharp rostral and/or caudal turn. The caudally projecting axon could, in some cases, be followed to the first cervical segment of the spinal cord. Seven cells issued fine axon collaterals on the ipsilateral side. These were identified mainly in two areas: in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (or immediately dorsomedial to that region), and within the dorsal vagal complex. Seven of 27 examined cells (26%) were tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive and were classified as C1 adrenergic neurons. No clear relationship was found between the presence or absence of adrenergic phenotype and the morphology of filled cells. However, the amplitude of aortic nerve-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials was significantly larger in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. Possible reasons for the low percentage of barosensitive cells with tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity found in this study, in comparison with previously published estimates, are discussed. This is the first study describing the morphology of neurons in this part of the medulla identified as barosensitive in vivo, and directly demonstrating adrenergic phenotype in a subset of these neurons.
Previous studies in our laboratory demonstrated the alteration in the physical state of synaptosomal membrane lipids and proteins in ischemia/reperfusion injury using selective spin labels and electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy [Hall et al. (1995) Neuroscience 61, 84-89]. Since many investigations have provided evidence for free radical generation during ischemia/reperfusion injury, we investigated whether a free radical scavenger would prevent the membrane damage, in gerbils. Further, experiments to determine if a secondary effect of polyamine generation at 14 h reperfusion could be blocked by this free radical scavenger or by an inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase were also carried out. The alterations in synaptosomal membrane integrity observed during ischemia/reperfusion injury were selectively neutralized by treatment with the free radical spin trap N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone or an inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase, difluoromethylornithine. Administration of N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone prior to ischemia totally abrogated both lipid and protein alterations observed at 1 and 14 h reperfusion. Pretreatment with difluoromethylornithine neutralized only the 14 h change in lipid label motion. Treatment with N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone at 6 h post ischemia showed only a slight attenuation of the 14 h lipid effect and no change in the protein effect. Difluoromethylornithine treatment at 6 h post ischemia negated the 14 h ischemia/reperfusion injury-induced lipid effect and had no effect on the protein change. These data support previous suggestions that free radicals and polyamines play a critical role in neuronal damage and cell loss following ischemia/reperfusion injury and that the polyamine effect is dependent upon free radical generation during ischemia/reperfusion injury.
Female mice form an olfactory memory to the pheromones of the mating male, during a critical period after mating. Failure to form this memory results in the male being treated as strange, and hence, his pheromones block pregnancy. Previous studies have shown that formation of this memory is dependent on synaptic mechanisms in the accessory olfactory bulb. A number of studies have pointed to calmodulin as a critical mediator of synaptic plasticity. In this study we have examined the effects of local infusions of drugs which block calmodulin-regulated processes, into the accessory olfactory bulb on the formation of this memory. Infusions of the calmodulin antagonist calmidazolium during the critical period prevented memory formation. However, the specific inhibitor of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, KN-62, or the selective inhibitor of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase 2B (calcineurin), FK506, was without effect on memory formation at any of the doses used. Instead of preventing memory formation, FK506 permitted the formation of a non-selective memory to strange male pheromones in the presence of mating, although FK506 alone could not induce a memory without the occurrence of mating. These results suggest that calmodulin in the accessory olfactory bulb is important in the formation of the olfactory memory to male pheromones. However, memory formation may be independent of calmodulin-kinase II. Calcineurin may play a role in processes antagonizing memory formation.
The amygdaloid complex plays an essential role in auditory fear conditioning of the Pavlovian type. The available evidence suggests that the lateral nucleus is the input station of the amygdala for auditory conditioned stimuli, whereas the central medial nucleus is the output for conditioned fear responses. However, the intrinsic pathway transmitting auditory information about the conditioned stimulus from the lateral to the central medial nuclei is unknown as there are no direct projections between these nuclei. The present study was undertaken to determine if the main intra-amygdaloid targets of the lateral nucleus, namely the basomedial and basolateral nuclei, project to the central medial nucleus. To this end, iontophoretic injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin were performed in these nuclei. To rule out the possibility that the anterograde labeling reflected passing fibers merging with the major fiber bundles that course in and around the central medial nucleus, labeled terminals and varicosities were observed in the electron microscope. It was determined that the basolateral and basomedial nuclei have partially overlapping intraamygdaloid targets. They both project to the central medial nucleus, nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract and peri-amygdaloid cortex, but have limited projections to each other. Small Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin injections in both nuclei gave rise to prominent intranuclear projections but only the basomedial nucleus was found to project to the lateral and anterior cortical nuclei. At the electron microscopic level, all labeled axon terminals and varicosities formed asymmetric synapses (n = 245) with dendritic spines (83%) or with dendritic shafts (17%). This is the first unambiguous demonstration that the basolateral and basomedial nuclei project to the central medial nucleus. Since these nuclei constitute the main intra-amygdaloid targets of the lateral nucleus, they represent likely candidates for the transmission of auditory conditioned stimuli to the central medial nucleus in auditory fear conditioning.
The effect of light and cyclic nucleotides (cGMP and cAMP) on a group of identified photosensitive neurons in Helix pomatia left parietal ganglion was examined. The onset of light induces in these cells a slow inward current shift associated with decrement of slope conductance. The reversal potential (Erev) of the light induced current (IL) and its changes due to altered extracellular concentration of potassium support the assumption that (IL) is due to suppression of K+ conductance. Elevation of intracellular concentration of cyclic GMP by adding 8-bromo-cGMP into the bathing solution or by injecting the nucleotide into the cell mimics, in all cases, the effect of light: it produces an inward current accompanied by decrement of slope conductance. The effect of elevation of cAMP was inconsistent. The I-V relations of IL and IcGMP follow a similar course and have a common Erev. The assumption that 3',5'-cyclic GMP is increased by light is also supported by comparing the effect of light and the cyclic nucleotide on the action potential. Both light and 8-bromo-cGMP broaden the action potential by increasing the voltage-dependent Ca2+ current.
Nitric oxide serves as a messenger molecule in some neuronal systems that use glutamate as a transmitter and it has been shown that glutamate mediates the transmission of photic signals by retinal ganglion cell axons terminating in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus, site of the circadian pacemaker in rodents. Recent experiments have demonstrated that pharmacological treatments which block nitric oxide synthesis by nitric oxide synthase prevent glutamate-induced phase shifts of the cell firing rhythm in suprachiasmatic nucleus slice preparation in vitro; similar treatments were found to inhibit light transmission to the suprachiasmatic nucleus as well as light-induced phase shifts in activity rhythms in vivo, implicating nitric oxide in circadian light signalling in vivo. There is limited information, however, about the presence and function of nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons within retinorecipient regions of the rodent suprachiasmatic nucleus. In the present study we used NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry and immunostaining for the nuclear phosphoprotein Fos to assess the co-distribution of nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons and light-responsive cells in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus region. A strong convergence between NADPH-diaphorase-stained cell bodies and fibres and cells that expressed Fos in response to photic stimulation was noted in the anterior periventricular nucleus, suprachiasmatic preoptic nucleus, retrochiasmatic area, the inter-suprachiasmatic nucleus region, and the dorsal aspect of the optic chiasm, below the suprachiasmatic nucleus. A similar convergence between NADPH-diaphorase-stained fibres and Fos-immunoreactive cells was noted inside the suprachiasmatic nucleus, but the number of NADPH-diaphorase-stained elements found in this region was substantially low compared with that found in retinorecipient regions bordering the nucleus. In many cases both inside and outside the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the Fos-immunoreactive cells appeared to make direct contact with NADPH-diaphorase-stained cells or fibres, but no co-localization of Fos immunoreactivity and NADPH-diaphorase histochemical activity within individual cells was detected. Extensive co-distribution of NADPH-diaphorase-stained cells and fibres and cells that express Fos in response to photic stimulation in the suprachiasmatic nucleus region is in line with the hypothesis that nitric oxide participates in the mechanism mediating circadian light signalling in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. However, lack of co-localization of the two markers to individual cells rules out the possibility that retinorecipient cells in the suprachiasmatic region synthesize and release nitric oxide when photically-activated. Instead, the results support the possibility that photic stimulation triggers nitric oxide synthesis in nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons located near the photically-activated cells.
The origin of neurotensin in the lateral hypothalamus was investigated by means of fluorescent retrograde tract tracing and neurotensin-like immunoreactivity. Following fluorescent retrograde tract tracing with FluoroGold combined with neurotensin immunohistochemistry in the rat brain, numerous neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons with projections to the posterior lateral hypothalamic area were identified in the central nucleus of the amygdala, perifornical area and the parabrachial nucleus. Fewer numbers of neurotensin-positive neurons with projections to the lateral hypothalamic area were observed in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, lateral septal nucleus, medial preoptic area, peri- and paraventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus, anterior lateral hypothalamic area and dorsal raphe nucleus. In addition, the role of neurotensin in the modulation of autonomic regulatory input from the insula was investigated. The lateral hypothalamic area was surveyed for single units responding to electrical stimulation (500-900 microA, 0.5 Hz) of sites in the insular cortex from which cardiovascular pressor or depressor responses could be elicited. These units were tested for the influence of neurotensin on responses to stimulation of the insular cortex. Of 60 spontaneously firing neurons, 27 units responded to electrical stimulation of cardiovascular sites in the insula. Of the units responding to stimulation of cardiovascular sites in the insula, 14 units showed excitation only, 10 units showed excitation followed by inhibition and three units showed inhibition. Iontophoresis of 0.1-1.0 mM neurotensin (25-100 nA, pH 5.0-6.0) potentiated six of the excitatory responses and showed no effect on the inhibitory responses. In addition, nine neurons showed an increase in spontaneous activity with iontophoresis of neurotensin. Of these neurons, three were excited by insular stimulation and six did not respond. These findings indicate the likely origin of neurotensin in the lateral hypothalamic area and demonstrate that neurotensin has a role in the modulation of some of the cardiovascular regulatory input from the insular cortex.
By using the techniques of in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunocytochemistry, we have found that both glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA levels and glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactive surface density in the arcuate nucleus and median eminence are modulated by both the neonatal and adult sex steroid environments. No effect was seen on the number of immunoreactive glia. Intact adult males had significantly higher glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA levels and glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactive surface density than females. Both adult and neonatal castration of male animals significantly reduced glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA levels and glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactive surface density. Neonatal and adult testosterone treatment increased both of these parameters in both sexes; however, there was no additive effect of the steroid treatments. Glial cells are involved in the proliferation, survival, migration and maturation of neurons, as well as in the modulation of synaptic connectivity, and therefore it follows that hormonal modulation of glia may mediate some of the known steroid effects on neurons. The data reported here show that astroglia are significantly influenced by both the neonatal and adult sex steroid environments and suggest that some of the steroid effects on neurons during both of these developmental periods may be mediated, at least in part, through modulation of glial cells.
We examined the sensory properties of putative cholinergic neurons of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus projecting to the superior colliculus. Projection neurons were identified by antidromic activation from the contralateral posterior superior colliculus; stimulation of the anterior half was essentially ineffective. Identified neurons fell into two groups, one with a somatosensory input (39%) and one without a sensory input. Somatosensory responsive projection neurons were low threshold and rapidly adapting. Receptive fields were contralateral (94%) and predominantly orofacial (57%). Sensory responsive and unresponsive projection neurons were intermingled within the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus as identified histologically by reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase or acetylcholinesterase. The properties of neurons outside the nucleus differed significantly. They could not be activated antidromically from the superior colliculus; many had ipsi- or bilateral receptive fields (75%) and wide dynamic range or nociceptive response patterns (52%). The presence of two functionally distinct groups of projection neurons implies a dual or more complex modulation of tectal neurons by the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. The pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus has been implicated in a multiplicity of behaviors and, in particular, in rapid eye movement sleep and alerting or arousal functions. By virtue of its many connections with the basal ganglia, limbic system and reticular structures, the projection to the superior colliculus of two distinct groups may provide an important differentiating element of the tectal organization of orienting and spatial cognitive behavior.
Considerable evidence has shown that both cholinergic and histaminergic neurons in the brain may act to facilitate processes of cortical activation that occur during wakefulness. In the present study, the potential influence of histaminergic neurons upon cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain was investigated in guinea-pig basal forebrain slices. We found that electrophysiologically identified and immunohistochemically verified cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis were depolarized and excited by histamine, as manifested by an increase in tonic firing. The depolarization was associated with an increase in membrane input resistance. The effect of histamine persisted in the presence of either tetrodotoxin or a high-magnesium/low-calcium solution, indicating that it is postsynaptic. By a process of elimination, the participation in this response of the three described histamine receptors was examined. Involvement of H3 receptors was excluded on the basis that the H3 agonist (R)-alpha-methyl-histamine had no direct effect, and the H3 antagonist, thioperamide, did not block the effect of histamine. In contrast, the presence of a small response to impromidine, a selective agonist of H2 receptors, and the partial block of the response to histamine by the H2 receptor antagonist, cimetidine, indicated the participation of H2 receptors. Finally, the complete elimination of histamine's effect occurred when low doses of the H1 antagonist, mepyramine, were added to the H2 antagonist, cimetidine, indicating the involvement and predominance of H1 receptors in the response. Our data thus suggest that histamine excites nucleus basalis cholinergic neurons by a concomitant activation of H1 and H2 receptors. Histaminergic tuberomammillary neurons may accordingly facilitate tonic firing of cholinergic neurons during wakefulness. Cholinergic basalis neurons could thus act in tandem with histaminergic neurons during periods of arousal to collectively promote widespread cortical activation.
Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings were used to study excitatory amino acid-induced currents in neurons isolated from the septum of fetal rat brains. The neurons were cultured for more than four weeks on a feeder layer composed of glial cells obtained from the septal region. Septal neurons were either fusiform, triangular or multipolar and 83% of cells showed acetylcholinesterase activity. L-Glutamate, kainate, quisqualate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) applied by local perfusion produced inward currents (Iglu, Ikai, Iquis and IAMPA, respectively) at -44mV which increased in amplitude with increasing concentration of agonist; they desensitized when induced at higher concentrations except for the Ikai. The EC50s for the peak Ikai and sustained Iglu, Iquis and IAMPA were 55, 13, 0.39 and 3.5 microM, respectively. 6-Cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) depressed Ikai and IAMPA evoked at a concentration of 10 microM (IC50s: 0.58 and 0.84 microM, respectively). Schild analysis for the CNQX action on Ikai gave a dissociation constant of 0.27 microM for CNQX. n-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) (with glycine, 3 microM) produced an inward current (INMDA) at -44 mV whose peak amplitude enhanced with increased concentrations (EC50 = 32 microM). INMDA was potentiated by glycine (EC50 = 0.15 microM) and inhibited by D-2-amino-5-phosphovalerate (IC50 = 9.9 microM for INMDA evoked at a concentration of 50 microM). MK-801 (0.1-10 microM) inhibited INMDA in a dose- and use-dependent manner. INMDA was (0.1-10 microM) inhibited INMDA in a dose- and use-dependent manner. INMDA was potentiated by spermine (EC50 = 247 microM; 91% increase at 1mM) in a manner independent of holding potential (VH). INMDA was inhibited by Mg2+ and Zn2+ (IC50 = 673 and 39 microM, respectively, at -44 mV) in a manner dependent on VH; the magnitudes of a depolarization required for an e-fold increase in their IC50s in a range of -64 to -24 mV were 16 and 22 mV, respectively. The action of Zn2+ was independent of VH &gt; -24 mV. Current-voltage relations for Ikai, Iquis and IAMPA exhibited outward rectification, while that of INMDA showed a region of negative conductance at VH &lt; -30 mV, which disappeared in a Mg(2+)-free solution. Reversal potentials for Ikai, Iquis, IAMPA and INMDA were close to 0 mV, indicating the involvement of non-specific cation channels. Increasing extracellular Ca2+ concentration from 2.4 to 30 mM did not affect the Ikai and Iquis, reversal potential showing negligible Ca2+ component, but shifted INMDA reversal potential to a more positive potential, yielding a ratio of Ca2+ permeability to that of monovalent cation to be 13. Cholinergic septal neurons in culture express non-NMDA-(AMPA/kainate-) and NMDA-type of glutamate receptor channels. Their properties were quantitatively similar to those of glutamate receptor channels on other types of neurons in the brain except for the actions of endogenous neuromodulators (Mg2+, Zn2+ and spermine) on NMDA receptor channels. It is suggested that NMDA receptor channels on different types of neurons may play a distinct role depending on a difference in the actions of these neuromodulators.
Organotypic cerebellar cultures derived from newborn mice were exposed to cytosine arabinoside for the first five days in vitro to destroy granule cells and functionally compromise glia. Such granuloprival cultures undergo a circuit reorganization featured by Purkinje cells sprouting recurrent axon collaterals that hyperinnervate other Purkinje cells. Intracellular recordings were used to compare the electrophysiological properties of Purkinje cells in granuloprival cultures to those of Purkinje cells in standard cultures. Purkinje cells in granuloprival cultures have similar membrane potentials to those of Purkinje cells in standard cultures, but have a lower input resistance. A reduced input resistance could affect the effectiveness of inhibitory synaptic input. Intracellular recordings from Purkinje cells of standard cerebellar cultures between 13 and 21 days in vitro exhibit spike activity consisting of a mixture of complex and simple spikes. The complex spikes contain a fast rising action potential followed by a depolarizing potential on which a plateau and several spike-like components are superimposed. This type of activity has been observed in mature Purkinje cells in vivo and in vitro. By contrast, at resting membrane potential Purkinje cells in granuloprival cultures have simple spike activity reminiscent of the type of activity seen in immature Purkinje cells, while at hyperpolarized potentials they generate complex spikes. These observations indicate differences in the expression of intrinsic electrophysiological properties underlying complex spike generation between Purkinje cells of organotypic and granuloprival cerebellar cultures. Our results illustrate the considerable plasticity of Purkinje cells in the presence of altered neuronal circuitry. In the absence of normal excitatory input, their spontaneous activity is regulated by intrinsic membrane properties.
This study examined the effects of hypotensive stress on classical conditioning of the rabbit's nictitating membrane response. Hypotension, consisting of an approximately 45% decrease in blood pressure, was maintained for 30 min by the i.v. infusion of sodium nitroprusside. Twenty minutes later animals were exposed to a conditioning session consisting of 60 pairings of a 200 ms tone conditioned stimulus with a 100 ms airpuff unconditioned stimulus directed at the cornea. This procedure was repeated for four consecutive days. Animals exposed to the hypotensive stress demonstrated a significantly retarded acquisition of conditioned responses as measured by their frequency and onset latency as well as by an increase in the number of trials required to reach acquisition criteria of five and 10 consecutive conditioned responses as compared with controls. A separate group of animals received a nitroprusside infusion one day after the acquisition of conditioned responses to the tone conditioned stimulus. These animals demonstrated a normal retention of conditioned responses and a normal response to varying intensities of the conditioned stimulus. Hypotensive stress also had no effect on the frequency and topography of the unconditioned response. It was concluded that a decrease in blood pressure can serve as a physiological stressor. One of the reactions to this stress consists of a retardation in the formation of associations during a learning task, without any decrease in the ability to retrieve previously learned material.
Semi-quantitative immunocytochemistry was used to investigate the levels of cyclase response element-binding protein, phosphorylated cyclase response element-binding protein, Fos and Fos-related antigen immunoreactivity in the striatum of rats after acute or repeated amphetamine administration. Rats were perfused 20 min (phosphorylated cyclase response element-binding protein) or 2 h (cyclase response element-binding protein, phosphorylated cyclase response element-binding protein, Fos, Fos-related antigen) after a single injection (5 mg/kg, i.p.) or five daily injections of amphetamine. The latency to onset of stereotypical behaviors was significantly reduced in rats exposed to repeated amphetamine as compared to acute amphetamine, indicating development of behavioral sensitization. Cyclase response element-binding protein immunoreactivity was not altered in the dorsal or ventral striatum following acute or repeated amphetamine. Phosphorylated cyclase response element-binding protein immunoreactivity was significantly induced 20 min, but not 2 h, following acute amphetamine, whereas a significant induction of phosphorylated cyclase response element-binding protein immunoreactivity was found 20 min and 2 h after repeated amphetamine in the dorsal striatum only. Fos immunoreactivity was significantly induced in the dorsal striatum following acute and repeated amphetamine. Fos immunoreactivity in the core of the nucleus accumbens was significantly increased following repeated amphetamine only. Acute amphetamine induced, and repeated amphetamine further augmented, Fos-related antigen immunoreactivity in the dorsal striatum, while not affecting Fos-related antigen immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens. These data demonstrate that repeated amphetamine administration results in a prolonged induction of phosphorylated cyclase response element-binding protein and Fos-related antigen immunoreactivity in the dorsal striatum, indicating that alterations in striatal gene expression associated with the development of behavioral sensitization may be mediated, in part, by these transcription factors.
Behavioral sensitization to amphetamine involves the mesoaccumbens dopamine system and is accompanied by cellular changes in this system. Excitatory amino acid antagonists, when co-administered with amphetamine, prevent both behavioral sensitization and associated changes in the mesoaccumbens dopamine system. This suggests that excitatory amino acid-dependent events are critical to the initiation of sensitization. This study sought to identify excitatory amino acid projections required for sensitization, focusing on projections to the nucleus accumbens or ventral tegmental area. The major excitatory projections to the nucleus accumbens originate in the prefrontal cortex, amygdala and hippocampus. The prefrontal cortex and amygdala also send excitatory projections to the ventral tegmental area. Ibotenic acid lesions of the prefrontal cortex or amygdala and electrolytic lesions of the fornix were performed in rats. After one week of recovery, rats were treated with water or 2.5 mg/kg amphetamine for six days and challenged with amphetamine on day 8. Activity was tested in photobeam cages on days 1 and 8. On day 1, control and sham-lesioned rats exhibited stereotyped behaviors followed by a period of post-stereotypy locomotion. On day 8, sensitization was evident as an enhancement of both stereotypy and post-stereotypy locomotion. Co-administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists [MK-801 (dizocilpine maleate) or CGS 19755] with amphetamine prevented the development of sensitization of both stereotypy and post-stereotypy locomotion. Neither antagonist, however, prevented the expression of sensitization. None of the lesions completely mimicked these effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists. Lesions of hippocampal projections traveling in the fornix produced a general disinhibition of locomotor activity, but did not prevent sensitization of either stereotypy or post-stereotypy locomotion. Lesions of the prefrontal cortex failed to prevent sensitization of stereotypy was obtained following repeated amphetamine administration. However, like prefrontal cortical lesions, amygdala lesions prevented sensitization of post-stereotypy locomotion. When interpreted in the light of previous studies demonstrating the importance of the ventral tegmental area in the initiation of sensitization, the present results suggest a likely role for neuronal circuits involving the prefrontal cortex, amygdala and ventral tegmental area in the development of sensitization of post-stereotypy locomotion following repeated amphetamine administration. Such circuits may initiate sensitization through a mechanism involving excitatory amino acid regulation of the activity of mesoaccumbens dopamine neurons. Parallel circuits, involving other brain regions, may similarly contribute to sensitization of stereotyped behaviors.
Selective removal of grafted tissue is critical to assess the functional role of that tissue in the host, yet is technically difficult for well-dispersed neural grafts. We labeled fetal hippocampal cells with both a nuclear marker (5'-bromodeoxyuridine) and a cytoplasmic marker (latex microspheres) before grafting into normal adult hippocampus. A nontoxic chromophore, chlorin e6, was conjugated on to the surface of latex microspheres of the treatment group. Chlorin e6 produces cytotoxic singlet oxygen only during photoactivation. Grafted animals received transcranial exposure to various intensities of near-infrared laser light. Following laser exposure, grafts were observed in all groups except in transplants prelabeled with chlorin e6 latex microspheres. An optimal laser exposure of 50-100 J/cm2 (4-8 min) was found to selectively remove only the chlorin e6-containing grafted cells. With increasing doses of laser illumination, non-specific lesions of the host tissue surrounding the graft were induced. Quantitative graft analysis, in the absence of laser exposure, indicated that the survival of grafted cells was similar between control transplants labeled with latex microspheres alone and grafts labeled with latex microspheres plus chlorin e6. This is further evidence that chlorin e6 by itself was not toxic without laser exposure. The results clearly demonstrate that singlet oxygen-induced cell photolysis can result in selective, non-invasive removal of dispersed grafted cells located in adult hippocampus. This technique may facilitate defining specific mechanisms of action of grafted cells which mediate functional recovery in different host conditions.
The central nervous system is especially vulnerable to hyperthermia-induced dysfunction, yet the mechanism for this susceptibility is poorly understood. High levels of adenosine triphosphate are necessary to maintain normal re-uptake of glutamate and aspartate, the major excitatory amino acids, by excitatory amino acid co-transporters. We hypothesized that excitotoxic neurotransmitters accumulate extracellularly when hyperthermia depletes adenosine triphosphate, leading to decreased uptake or release of excitatory amino acids by these co-transporters. Incubation of hippocampal slices at 42 degrees C, a temperature that results in coma in vivo, reduced adenosine triphosphate to 70% of control values and decreased uptake of the transportable excitatory amino acid analogue, D,L threo-beta-hydroxyaspartate, to 50% of control values. The degree of adenosine triphosphate depletion induced by hyperthermia was highly correlated with decreases in excitatory amino acid uptake. Severe adenosine triphosphate depletion (&lt; or = 20% of control) induced by hyperthermia in combination with metabolic insults was highly correlated with the release of endogenous glutamate and aspartate. Preloading slices with excitatory amino acid analogues potentiated hyperthermia-induced alterations of excitatory amino acid transport, strongly suggesting that the hyperthermia-induced changes were largely due to altered excitatory amino acid co-transporter activity. Immunocytochemical studies suggested glutamate-like immunoreactivity was lost from axonal terminals during hyperthermia in a similar manner to losses induced by metabolic toxins. Hyperthermia due to infectious diseases or heat stroke my induce disorientation and coma. These dysfunctions may be due, in part, to altered excitatory amino acid transport induced by adenosine triphosphate depletion.
Non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors are responsible for fast excitatory neurotransmission in the mammalian CNS. These receptors are rapidly activated and desensitized in the presence of glutamate, and are often further subdivided into alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionic acid and kainate receptors based on their selective agonists. Non-NMDA glutamate receptors are composed of multiple subunits which recently have been cloned, and studies on the recombinant glutamate receptors have helped clarify the distinctions between AMPA and kainate-preferring glutamate receptors. Although the subunits which make up both AMPA and kainate receptors have a widespread distribution, most currents recorded in vivo are characteristic of recombinant AMPA receptors. To help clarify the functional role of high-affinity kainate receptors, we have characterized the expression of a high-affinity kainate receptor subunit, KA2, in cultured hippocampal neurons. Using immunocytochemistry, we found that KA2 was expressed in hippocampal neurons at all times during the development of the cells in culture, and the subunit was enriched in dendritic spines after about 14 days. The subcellular distribution of KA2 paralleled that of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1, with the AMPA and kainate subunits being colocalized at all times in culture. The enriched KA2 immunoreactivity co-localized with the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin at the resolution of light microscopy, indicating synaptic localization of KA2. Although the kainate subunit KA2 co-localized with the AMPA subunit GluR1, co-immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated a direct interaction between the AMPA receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR2/3, but not between GluR1 and the kainate subunits GluR6/7 or KA2. We therefore, conclude that both AMPA and kainate receptor subunits are enriched in the same dendritic spines, yet do not combine to form receptor complexes.
Interneurons and pyramidal cells were identified electrophysiologically in the hippocampus of anesthetized rats. Paired tones were presented 500 ms apart, and the resulting neuronal response was compared to differences in the amplitude of an auditory evoked potential (N40) elicited by each of the tones. Generally, the N40 elicited in response to the second tone is less than the response to the first. Pyramidal cells exhibited their most pronounced activation within 40 ms after the first tone. The post-stimulus discharge activation of interneurons was less than the pyramidal cells, but activation of different interneurons occurred at various times throughout the interval between the two tones. The presence or absence of suppression of N40 amplitude in the paired stimulus paradigm correlated with differences in the auditory response of both the interneurons and pyramidal cells. The activity of interneurons in relationship to gating of hippocampal auditory response is discussed.
The excised patch mode of the patch-clamp technique has been used to record isolated patch N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor-mediated currents (patch NMDA-receptor-currents) evoked by electrical stimulation in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal slice. The patch NMDA-receptor-currents were recorded by placing a patch of membrane isolated from the cell body in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and applying stimulation to the proximal commissural/associational pathway. The patch NMDA-receptor-currents, recorded at +40 mV in the presence of AMPA-receptor and GABAA-receptor antagonists, consisted of two to six summated unitary openings of NMDA-receptor channels, lasting several hundred milliseconds. Tetanic pathway stimulation evoked a rapid increase in the amplitude of the patch NMDA-receptor-currents which lasted for a period of at least 20 min following the tetanus. The study suggests that the potentiation of the patch NMDA-receptor-currents is due to either an increase in transmitter release, or alternatively, to the release of an extracellular messenger which directly enhances NMDA-receptor responsiveness.
Calcium imaging and patch-clamp recording techniques were used to investigate the relationship between membrane properties and intracellular calcium changes in response to the excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter glutamate. Application of glutamate to cultured neocortical neurons produced concentration-dependent increases in intracellular calcium, membrane depolarization and transmembrane current. At a low concentration (3 microM), glutamate induced only a small depolarization (&lt; 10 mV), yet produced a substantial increase in intracellular calcium. The calcium increase was observed in the presence of extracellular magnesium, was dependent on extracellular calcium, was blocked by an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, and was not affected by manipulation of intracellular calcium stores. This low concentration of glutamate also induced membrane currents that exhibited an N-methyl-D-aspartate-like unconventional voltage dependence. When glutamate was increased to a concentration known to produce excitotoxicity (500 microM), large depolarizations and membrane currents were induced, which rapidly reversed following prolonged glutamate applications. Changes in intracellular calcium in response to 500 microM glutamate had both voltage-sensitive and -insensitive components, and consistently remained elevated following removal of glutamate. These results indicate that low concentrations of glutamate can preferentially activate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, leading to increases in intracellular calcium. Functionally this may be involved in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor responses to ambient extracellular glutamate. In addition, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated calcium influx and subsequent depolarization induced by high glutamate concentrations can produce alterations in intracellular calcium homeostasis, which may play an important role in excitotoxicity.
Opioid-GABAergic interactions for the treatment of post-operative pain were investigated in two double-blind, placebo-controlled experiments. We first studied the effect of pre-operatively administered baclofen, a GABAB receptor agonist, on the analgesia produced by intravenously administered morphine, a predominantly mu-opioid analgesic. In a separate trial, we studied the effect of baclofen on the analgesia produced by pentazocine, a predominantly kappa-opioid analgesic. While baclofen alone did not affect the level of post-operative pain, morphine analgesia was significantly enhanced by baclofen compared to placebo. In contrast, baclofen did not affect the level of pentazocine analgesia: however, females receiving pentazocine showed significantly greater analgesia than males.
Synaptic alterations have been suggested, largely on theoretical grounds, to occur in the brain in schizophrenia. The messenger RNA encoding synaptophysin, a presynaptic terminal protein, is reduced in the medial temporal lobe in the disease, but immunocytochemical and immunoblotting data have not produced clear evidence for a loss of the encoded protein. Here we have used immunoautoradiography with an antisynaptophysin monoclonal antibody and a 35S-labelled secondary antibody in medial temporal lobe sections from 11 schizophrenics and 14 matched controls. In the schizophrenic cases there was an overall loss of synaptophysin (P &lt; 0.02). Analysis by subfield showed significant reductions in the right dentate gyrus molecular layer, subiculum and parahippocampal gyrus, with similar trends in most other subfields. These data confirm that synaptophysin expression is decreased within the medial temporal lobe in schizophrenia. In the respect that synaptophysin is a marker of synaptic density, our findings suggest that reduced synaptic density may be a feature of the molecular neuropathology of the disease.
This review examines the effect of experimental conditions on the data obtainable from diffusion weighted NMR experiments. The origin and forms of the Stejskal-Tanner experiment are presented, and the relative merits of bipolar to monopolar diffusion weighting gradient pulses are discussed, as are those of spin-echo and stimulated-echo weighting schemes. The short pulse Stejskal-Tanner experiment as required for q-space imaging is described. Criteria for successful diffusion weighted imaging are given, and current strategies for diffusion weighted imaging are evaluated against these. The range of biological objects accessible to diffusion weighted NMR is summarized, together with the associated experimental limitations. In the final section the dependence of diffusion weighted NMR data on diffusion time and b-value range is examined, and the relationship between apparent restricted diffusion and the size of the extracellular space is demonstrated.



The United States is experiencing an epidemic of obesity among both adults and children. Approximately 35 percent of women and 31 percent of men age 20 and older are considered obese, as are about one-quarter of children and adolescents. While government health goals for the year 2000 call for no more than 20 percent of adults and 15 percent of adolescents to be obese, the prevalence of this often disabling disease is increasing rather than decreasing. Obesity, of course, is not increasing because people are consciously trying to gain weight. In fact, tens of millions of people in this country are dieting at any one time; they and many others are struggling to manage their weight to improve their appearance, feel better, and be healthier. Many programs and services exist to help individuals achieve weight control. But the limited studies paint a grim picture: those who complete weight-loss programs lose approximately 10 percent of their body weight, only to regain two-thirds of it back within 1 year and almost all of it back within 5 years. These figures point to the fact that obesity is one of the most pervasive public health problems in this country, a complex, multifactorial disease of appetite regulation and energy metabolism involving genetics, physiology, biochemistry, and the neurosciences, as well as environmental, psychosocial, and cultural factors. Unfortunately, the lay public and health-care providers, as well as insurance companies, often view it simply as a problem of willful misconduct--eating too much and exercising too little. Obesity is a remarkable disease in terms of the effort required by an individual for its management and the extent of discrimination its victims suffer. While people often wish to lose weight for the sake of their appearance, public health concerns about obesity relate to this disease's link to numerous chronic diseases that can lead to premature illness and death. The scientific evidence summarized in Chapter 2 suggests strongly that obese individuals who lose even relatively small amounts of weight are likely to decrease their blood pressure (and thereby the risk of hypertension), reduce abnormally high levels of blood glucose (associated with diabetes), bring blood concentrations of cholesterol and triglycerides (associated with cardiovascular disease) down to more desirable levels, reduce sleep apnea, decrease their risk of osteoarthritis of the weight-bearing joints and depression, and increase self-esteem. In many cases, the obese person who loses weight finds that an accompanying comorbidity is improved, its progression is slowed, or the symptoms disappear. Healthy weights are generally associated with a body mass index (BMI; a measure of whether weight is appropriate for height, measured in kg/m2) of 19-25 in those 19-34 years of age and 21-27 in those 35 years of age and older. Beyond these ranges, health risks increase as BMI increases. Health risks also increase with excess abdominal/visceral fat (as estimated by a waist-hip ratio [WHR] &gt; 1.0 for males and &gt; 0.8 for females), high blood pressure (&gt; 140/90), dyslipidemias (total cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations of &gt; 200 and &gt; 225 mg/dl, respectively), non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, and a family history of premature death due to cardiovascular disease (e.g., parent, grandparent, sibling, uncle, or aunt dying before age 50). Weight loss usually improves the management of obesity-related comorbidities or decreases the risks of their development. The high prevalence of obesity in the United States together with its link to numerous chronic diseases leads to the conclusion that this disease is responsible for a substantial proportion of total health-care costs. We estimate that today's health-care costs of obesity exceed $70 billion per year.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
This study was undertaken to explore whether the neural substrates demonstrated in brain imaging studies on experimentally induced pain are involved in the perception of chronic neuropathic pain. We investigated the cerebral representation of chronic lateralised ongoing pain in patients with painful mononeuropathy (PMN, i.e., pain in the distribution of a nerve, neuralgia) with positron emission tomography (PET), using regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as an index for neuronal activity. Eight patients (29-53 years) with PMN in the lower extremity (4 in the right, 4 in the left) were recruited. Paired comparisons of rCBF were made between the patient's habitual pain (HP) state and the pain alleviated (PA) state following a successful regional nerve block (RNB) with lidocaine. The ongoing neuropathic pain resulted in activation of bilateral anterior insula, posterior parietal, lateral inferior prefrontal, and posterior cingulate cortices as well as the posterior sector of the right anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), Brodmann area (BA) 24, regardless of the side of PMN. In addition, a reduction in rCBF was noted in the contralateral posterior thalamus. No significant change of rCBF was detected in the somatosensory areas, i.e., SI and SII. The cerebral activation pattern, while addressing the differences between the HP and PA states, emphasises the affective-motivational dimension in chronic ongoing neuropathic pain. The striking preferential activation of the right ACC (BA 24), regardless of the side of the PMN, not only confirms that the ACC participates in the sensorial/affectional aspect of the pain experience but also suggests a possible right hemispheric lateralisation of the ACC for affective processing in chronic ongoing neuropathic pain. Our data suggests that the brain employs different central mechanisms for chronic neuropathic pain and experimentally induced acute pain, respectively.
The effect of eye orientation on pain was investigated as a function of the stimulus intensity and the subjects' anxiety. Right-handed female subjects received sequences of electric shocks gradually increasing in intensity. Unpleasantness threshold, pain threshold, tolerance threshold and pain range were obtained when eyes were directed towards a target LED situated in the direction of, or away from, the source of stimulation, in the ipsi- or contralateral hemispace. Directing the eyes ipsilaterally to the stimulated hand yielded a lower unpleasantness threshold when the right hand was stimulated. No significant effect was observed in high trait anxiety subjects. These results are interpreted in terms of hemispatial attention bias. Moreover, an ipsilateral eye orientation increased pain range but this effect reversed in the highest state anxiety subjects. These latter observations could reflect the interacting influences of both spatial attention and state anxiety in selecting the processing mode of painful stimuli.
A novel priming technique is applied in two experiments using an alphabetic decision and a lexical decision task to study effects of repetition, and form-related priming on letter and word recognition. The incremental priming technique consists of a gradual increase of the prime's informational value (operationalized as prime intensity). The minimum prime-intensity level serves as a within-condition baseline for each priming condition. Thus, we can define any priming effect with respect to two baseline conditions: one is the minimum-intensity condition of the particular priming condition (within-condition baseline), and the other is a different priming condition (across-condition baseline). This double-baseline approach makes measuring of priming effects more reliable and imposes stronger constraints on our interpretations of these effects.
Functional N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists including competitive antagonists, glycine partial agonists, and use-dependent channel blockers exhibit antidepressant-like actions in preclinical models. The present study examined the effects of eliprodil (SL-82.0715), an NMDA antagonist acting at polyamine sites, in behavioral and neurochemical tests predictive of antidepressant activity. In mice, eliprodil produced a dose-dependent reduction in immobility in the forced swim test, but was inactive in the tail suspension test. Chronic treatment with eliprodil produced both a significant downregulation of beta-adrenoceptors and a reduction in the potency of glycine to inhibit [3H]5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid binding to strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors in neocortical membranes. In toto, these data indicate that like other NMDA antagonists, eliprodil possesses antidepressant-like actions in preclinical tests predictive of clinical efficacy.
This work addressed five issues: a) Does caffeine modulate electroencephalogram (EEG) background activity in a manner consistent with the idea of cortical &quot;arousal&quot;? b) Is performance in a simple speeded task improved under caffeine? c) Is visual processing more selective under caffeine? d) Does caffeine affect sensory discrimination? and e) Does it affect motor processes? We presented 16 subjects with a visual selection task under conditions of either caffeine or placebo. Background EEG data, gathered before administration of the task, revealed that caffeine resulted in lower slow-alpha power, relative to placebo, which is consistent with the idea of increased cortical &quot;arousal.&quot; During the selection task, subjects had to respond manually to a given target conjunction of spatial frequency and orientation. Other conjunctions shared spatial frequency, orientation, or neither with the target. The four conjunctions were presented in a random sequence, with SOAs ranging between 750 and 950 ms. Event-related potentials (ERPs) to the conjunctions were recorded at standard scalp locations Fz, Cz, Pz, and Oz. Under caffeine, subjects made faster responses to target conjunctions (382.9 vs. 404.5 ms) and more hits, whereas the false-alarm rate was equal across conditions. Caffeine did not affect the selection potentials normally obtained in this task by subtracting, from ERPs to nontargets with the target spatial frequency, those to nontargets with the other frequency. However, an early differential positivity (50-160 ms) was found specifically under caffeine, indicative of increased selectivity. Difference ERPs as a function of physical parameters were not affected by caffeine, indicating no effect on sensory discrimination. Onsets of response-related lateralizations above the motor cortex were not affected by caffeine, suggesting that the shorter reaction times under caffeine were due to faster central or peripheral motor processes.
The first putative extracellular domains of both m1 and m2 muscarinic receptors contain a triplet of amino acid residues consisting of leucine (L), tyrosine (Y), and threonine (T). This triplet is repeated as LYTLYT in m2 receptors. However, it is repeated in a transposed fashion (LYTTYL) in the sequence of m1 receptors. In this work we employed site-directed mutagenesis to investigate the possible significance of this unique sequence diversity in determining the distinct differential drug-receptor interaction at the two receptor subtypes. Mutation of the LYTTYL sequence of m1 receptors to the corresponding m2 receptor LYTLYT sequence, however, did not significantly change the binding affinity of the agonist carbachol or the affinity of the majority of a series of receptor antagonists which are able to discriminate between wild-type m1 and m2 receptors. The reverse mutation at the m2 receptor also did not modify agonist affinity, but altered affinity of several receptor subtype-selective antagonists. The magnitude of affinity changes, however, was small, and the direction of these changes was opposite to what would be expected if the m2 receptor LYTLYT seqence were important for determining the binding profile of m2-receptor-selective antagonists. Our data suggest that the LYTTYL-LYTLYT sequence differences between ml and m2 muscarinic receptors are not important for determining receptor pharmacology.
ADVANCES in the theory of nonlinear differential equations and their statistical representations have yielded a powerful, qualitatively descriptive yet quantitative language that captures characteristic patterns of behavior (what the psychoanalyst Roy Schafer calls &quot;continuity, coherence, and consistency of action&quot;) that has begun to influence studies of complex systems in motion as diverse in specifics as signatory patterns of discharge of neurochemically defined single neurons and the dynamical structures characteristic of a particular composer's music. What might be called personality theories of neurobiological dynamics have arisen to replace neurobiological theories of personality. It is in this way that rigorously proven and powerful general mathematical insights have changed the face of determinism in research in brain and behavior. Two examples: (1) Very complicated looking behavior of neurobiological forced-dissipative (expanding and contracting) systems over time take place on low dimensional abstract surfaces on which only a few underlying abstract parameters control the action. (2) Independent of specific details (chemical, electrical, and/or behavioral), there exist a relatively few fundamental categories of behavior in time and transitions, among them a property called universality. Results from this new theoretical, in contrast with experimental, reductionism yield analogies with and new approaches to historically important dynamic ideas about personality and character patterns that are equally relevant to micro and macrocomplex systems such as neural membrane receptor proteins and individual personality styles. Research findings achieved over the past decade and a half in our laboratory and others in neurochemistry, neurophysiology, and animal and human behavior, as well as the results of a new demonstration experiment involving the prediction of dynamical category membership from abstract expressive motion in humans, are used to exemplify this use of a quantitative dynamic category theory across disciplinary levels in brain and behavior. Multiple measures of complexity adapted from current research in the statistical properties of chaos on unobtrusively observed and reconstructed orbits on the computer screen made by non-premorbid subjects executing content-free, computer-game-like tasks with a mouse, were used to reliably differentiate the &quot;signatures&quot; of two Axis II diagnoses as established using SCID-II criteria. Whereas the techniques of nonlinear systems have achieved some success in quantifying and stimulating the dynamical styles of relatively local phenomena such as the spontaneous behavior of neuronal membrane conductances, single neurons, neural networks, and field electrical events, we think that the real power of these techniques lies in their quantitative description and statistical prediction of global patterns of behavior of entire systems. For example, since the late 1970s our work has shown that these measures could be used to discriminate categories of drug action and dose when applied to patterns of rat exploratory behavior in space and time. The combination of abstract generality and quantitative precision of these methods suggests their usefulness as a cross-disciplinary language for fields like psychiatry that deal with complicated behavior of both neurobiological elements and &quot;the whole person.&quot;
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle reflex provides an operational measure of sensorimotor gating. Deficits in PPI are observed in schizophrenia patients and can be modelled in animals by administration of noncompetitive NMDA antagonists such as phencyclidine (PCP) or dizocilpine (MK-801). Previous studies indicate that the atypical antipsychotic clozapine restores PPI in PCP-treated animals while the typical antipsychotic haloperidol does not. Olanzapine (LY170053) is a novel putative atypical antipsychotic that shares many pharmacological and behavioral properties with clozapine. The present study assessed the ability of olanzapine (0, 1.25, 2.5, 5.0 or 10.0 mg/kg) to antagonize deficits in PPI produced by PCP (1.5 mg/kg) and dizocilpine (0.1 mg/kg). At the two highest doses, olanzapine significantly increased PPI in PCP- and dizocilpine-treated animals without affecting PPI or baseline startle reactivity by itself. These results support the notion that olanzapine is functionally similar to clozapine and may have utility as an atypical antipsychotic agent.
With the aim of exploring putative correlations between serum and CSF levels of clozapine and its demethyl metabolite, lumbar puncture was performed on four male and five female schizophrenic patients during long-term treatment with clozapine. Three consecutive 6-ml fractions were collected after at least 8 h of bedrest and fasting. On comparing serum and CSF levels, a correlation was found for norclozapine in the third (13-18 ml) CSF fraction. Norclozapine in the first (0-6 ml) CSF correlated significantly with height. The CSF/serum ratio of clozapine in the first fraction was correlated significantly with body weight. No correlations were found between serum levels of clozapine and norclozapine, or between the serum and CSF levels of clozapine. The study suffers from a small number of patients (for ethical reasons), but the present results might be explicable if the first (0-6 ml) CSF fraction represents a cul-du-sac of the CSF, mirroring the previous day's drug levels. The second fraction, then, will represent the CSF level in the steady state during the night.
The effects of systemic administration of DA receptor antagonists suggest that unconditioned motor behavior in rats depleted of DA as neonates continues to be dependent upon dopaminergic transmission, yet the specific contribution of D1 and D2 receptors to these behaviors has been altered. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether these depletion-induced receptor changes are occurring at the level of striatal DA terminals and their targets. The ability of bilateral intrastriatal injections (0.5 microliter) of DA receptor antagonists to induce motoric deficits was determined in adult rats treated with vehicle or 6-OHDA (100 micrograms, intraventricular) on postnatal day 3. Administration of the D1-like antagonist SCH 23390 (0.5-2.0 micrograms) or the D2-like antagonist clebopride (1.0-4.0 micrograms) induced dose-dependent akinesia, catalepsy, and somatosensory neglect in vehicle-treated controls. In contrast, neither antagonist produced deficits in rats depleted of forebrain DA as neonates. However, combined administration of SCH 23390 + clebopride induced similar akinesia, catalepsy, and somatosensory neglect in both controls and DA depleted animals. Animals depleted of DA were more sensitive than controls to the low doses of this combined D1 + D2 antagonism. These results demonstrate that activation of striatal DA receptors remains necessary for unconditioned motor behavior in rats depleted of DA as neonates. However, the specific contributions of D1- and D2-like receptors to these behaviors differ between intact animals and those depleted of DA as neonates. The ability of endogenous DA acting at either D1 or D2 receptors to support spontaneous motor behavior in rats depleted of DA as neonates may contribute to their relative sparing from parkinsonian deficits.


The repertoire of the lysosomal system extends beyond its function in degrading biologic macromolecules for energy and recycling purposes. Controlled shifts in lysosomal activity help neurons to regulate their cytoplasmic volume and to remodel local cellular domains. Newly identified regulatory controls over targeting to lysosomes and the limited proteolytic actions of 'lysosomal' hydrolases, together with other recent findings, are suggesting potential roles for the endosomal-lysosomal system in modifying functions of specific proteins, acquiring nutrients essential for growth and repair, influencing the output of secretory products, and helping neurons to modulate trophic signals. The prominent involvement of the endosomal-lysosomal system in Alzheimer's disease and other major pathologies has redoubled interest in how this system serves neurons.
The ability to map functional activity in the living human brain has rekindled interest in the organization of human neural circuitry specifically and in animal neural circuitry generally. Faced with incredible complexity, researchers are turning to the power of computer graphics for two- and three-dimensional interactive mapping, to the mathematical modeling of dynamics in proposed circuits, and to databases with powerful discovery engines.
CD38 is a lymphocyte differentiation antigen which is involved in the cyclic ADP-ribose-mediated second messenger system. We provide immunochemical and immunohistochemical evidence for the expression of CD38 in the adult human brain. We used six polyclonal antibodies against synthetic CD38 polypeptides, in addition to four monoclonal antibodies already available. Brain CD38 was detectable by Western blotting after immunoaffinity purification of the brain extracts. Immunoperoxidase staining localized CD38 immunoreactivity to the perikarya and dendrites of many neurons, such as the cerebellar Purkinje cells, implying that CD38 is involved in the signal transduction within the central nervous system neurons.
Cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) is a newly discovered isoform of cyclooxygenase that is inducible by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or cytokines. This enzyme is considered to play a major role in inflammatory processes by catalyzing the production of prostaglandins. In the present study, induction of COX-2 mRNA in the rat brain by intraperitoneal injection of LPS was studied by the in situ hybridization technique with special attention paid to timing and sites of induction along with the time course of fever. In situ hybridization was carried out on sections of rat brain, 1 h (latent phase), 2.5 h (maximally febrile phase), 4 h (plateau phase), and 7 h (recovery phase) after the LPS injection, as well as on those from the brains of untreated and saline-injected rats. Injection of LPS induced COX-2 mRNA in the brain in two different constituents: neuronal cells and non-parenchymal cells of the blood vessels and leptomeninges. Induction in the neuronal cells was restricted to some telencephalic areas where the COX-2 mRNA signal was also detected in control animals. The signal was maximally enhanced by 50 to 80% over the basal level 1 h after LPS injection. The COX-2 mRNA signal was hardly detectable in neuronal and glial cells in other brain regions, including the preoptic area, either in control or LPS-injected rats. Strong COX-2 mRNA signals, however, appeared in the inner surface of blood vessels and the leptomeninges over the entire brain, including the preoptic area and its vicinity. The signals were not detectable in the brains of control rats and were most intense in the brains of rats treated with LPS for 2.5 h or 4 h. These results demonstrate that two major cell groups in the brain, neuronal cells and non-parenchymal cells, are responsible for the enhanced production of prostaglandins after systemic LPS treatment. Considering the site and timing of induction, we propose a possible role for blood vessels and leptomeninges as the source of prostaglandin E2 in the genesis of fever.
It has been proposed that the distribution of efferents developed by neocortical neurons depends upon where in the neocortex the cells develop, not where they were generated. However, the capacity of diverse isocortical areas to differentiate connectional characteristics belonging to other isocortical areas has recently been questioned in several experiments using heterotopic transplantation paradigms. The present study was designed to determine whether the principle of multipotentiality is still valid within one single isocortical region. Mediolateral bands of embryonic (E16) frontal neocortex were dissected out and grafted into the left frontal cortex of neonate hosts according to either correct or inverted mediolateral orientation. Five to six months after grafting, a retrograde tracer was injected into the dorsomedial or ventrolateral left neostriatum of the host. The mediolateral distribution of the cell labeling within the transplant was then compared to that of an equivalent frontal cortical area (ECA) in control cases. The results indicate that strips of embryonic frontal neocortex transplanted according to a correct mediolateral orientation are able to develop a projection towards the host striatum whose mediolateral topographical distribution is not significantly different from that arising from the frontal neocortex of control animals. The percentages of transplant cells labeled in the medial or lateral division of the grafts were not significantly different from those found medially or laterally in the ECA in control cases. Following inversion of the mediolateral orientation of the grafts at the time of transplantation, the percentages of cells labeled in the medial or lateral division of the grafts were nearly equal whatever the site of tracer deposit within the host neostriatum. These results indicate that even within one single neocortical region the principle of areal interchangeability is not entirely validated and that the development of neocortical efferents is not only guided by extrinsic factors.
To identify the residues involved in substrate recognition by recently cloned vesicular monoamine transporters (VMAT1 and VMAT2), we have mutagenized the conserved residues in a cytoplasmic loop between transmembrane domains two and three of VMAT2. Although studies of related bacterial antibiotic resistance proteins indicate an important functional role for this region, we found no effect of these mutations on VMAT2 activity. However, replacement of aspartate 33 in the first predicted transmembrane domain with an asparagine (D33N) eliminates transport. D33N shows normal levels of expression and normal binding at equilibrium to the potent inhibitor reserpine. However, in contrast to wild-type VMAT2, serotonin inhibits reserpine binding to D33N very poorly, indicating a specific defect in substrate recognition. Replacement of three serine residues in transmembrane domain three with alanine (Stmd3A) shows a similarly selective but even more profound defect in substrate recognition. The results suggest that by analogy to receptors and plasma membrane transporters for monoamines, the cationic amino group of the ligand interacts with an asparte in the first transmembrane domain of VMAT2 and hydroxyl groups on the catechol or indole ring interact with a group of serines in the third transmembrane domain. Importantly, D33N and Stmd3A retain coupling to the proton electrochemical gradient as measured by the delta microH(+)-induced acceleration of reserpine binding. This indicates that substrate recognition can be separated from coupling to the driving force.
Senile plaques are primarily comprised of deposits of the beta-amyloid precursor-like proteins APLP1 and APLP2. proteins (APPs). APP is a member of a gene family, including amyloid precursor-like proteins APLP1 and APLP2. Using interspecific mouse backcross mapping, we localized the mouse APLP2 gene to the promixmal region of mouse chromosome 9, syntenic with a region of human 11q. We cloned an approximately 1.2-kilobase mouse genomic fragment containing the APLP2 gene promoter. The APLP2 promoter lacks a typical TATA box, is GC-rich, and contains several sequences for transcription factor binding. S1 nuclease protection analysis revealed the presence of multiple transcription start sites. The lack of a TATA box, the presence of a high GC content, and multiple transcription start sites place the APLP2 promoter in the class of promoters of &quot;housekeeping genes.&quot; Regulatory regions within the promoter were assayed by transfection of mouse N2a and Ltk- cells with constructs containing progressive 5'-deletions of the APLP2 promoter fused to the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) reporter gene. A minimal region that includes sequences 99 bp upstream of the predominant transcription start site of the APLP2 promoter was sufficient to direct high levels of CAT expression.
The ability of three-dimensional quantitative structure-activity relationships (QSARs) derived from classical QSAR descriptors and similarity indices to rationalize the activity of 28 N-terminus fragments of tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonists was examined. Two different types of analyses, partial least squares and multiple regression, were performed in order to check the robustness of each derived model. The models derived using classical QSAR descriptors lacked accurate quantitative and predictive abilities to describe the nature of the receptor-inhibitor interaction. However models derived using 3D QSAR descriptors based on similarity indices were both robust and significantly predictive. The best model was obtained through the statistical analysis of molecular field similarity indices (n = 28, r2 = 0.846, r(cv)2 = 0.737, s = 0.987, PRESS = 7.102) suggesting that electronic and size-related properties are the most relevant in explaining the affinity data of the training set. The overall quality and predictive ability of the models applied to the test set appear to be very high, since the predicted affinities of three test compounds agree with the experimentally determined affinities obtained subsequently within the experimental error of the binding data.
We have previously shown that electrical stimulation of the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) can increase or decrease cerebral blood flow (CBF). We now sought to determine whether the CBF responses are mediated by DRN neurons or fibers of passage. In anesthetized rat, the DRN was stimulated chemically (L-glutamate, kainate) and CBF in parietal cortex was measured by laser-Doppler flowmetry. Microinjection of kainate (5 nmol), but not L-glutamate, into DRN increased CBF (28 +/- 22%; P &lt; 0.05). Decreased CBF to DRN stimulation was not observed. We conclude that stimulation of DRN neurons increases CBF.
The neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are amyloid-containing plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. The main constituent of senile plaques is amyloid beta-peptide (A beta) and in recent years, pathogenic mutations in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene have been discovered in some AD families. The APP670/671 mutation, found in a Swedish AD family, has revealed over-production of A beta as one pathogenic mechanism for the development of AD. In the present study we have used an immunoassay to measure A beta levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from APP670/671 mutation-carriers and non-carriers. A correlation was seen between decrease in A beta levels and duration of disease although no difference was found in levels of A beta between the groups (14.5 +/- 3.3 ng/ml versus 14.9 +/- 2.3 ng/ml).
In this study, it has been clearly demonstrated that a selective 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)1A agonist, 8-OH-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetraline (8-OH-DPAT, 1 microM) significantly inhibited forskolin (10 microM)-stimulated cyclic AMP (cAMP) accumulation in the C6BU-1 cells transfected with 5-HT1A receptor gene. Further, this 8-OH-DPAT-induced inhibition of forskolin-stimulated activity was significantly attenuated after pre-exposure to 5-HT (10 microM) for 12 h. Spiperone (10 microM), a 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A antagonist, prevented 5-HT-induced desensitization of 5-HT1A receptor, but a selective 5-HT2A receptor antagonist, ketanserin, did not. In addition, pre-exposure to a selective 5-HT2A agonist, 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI, 10 microM), for 24 h did not alter the inhibitory effect of 8-OH-DPAT on forskolin-stimulated cAMP accumulation in these transfected cells, suggesting that prolonged exposure to 5-HT induced 5-HT1A receptor desensitization, mediated by 5-HT1A receptor but not 5-HT2A receptors.

Recent work has identified a neuron with widespread projections to odour processing regions of the honeybee brain whose activity represents the reward value of gustatory stimuli. We have constructed a model of bee foraging in uncertain environments based on this type of neuron and a predictive form of hebbian synaptic plasticity. The model uses visual input from a simulated three-dimensional world and accounts for a wide range of experiments on bee learning during foraging, including risk aversion. The predictive model shows how neuromodulatory influences can be used to bias actions and control synaptic plasticity in a way that goes beyond standard correlational mechanisms. Although several behavioural models of conditioning in bees have been proposed, this model is based on the neural substrate and was tested in a simulation of bee flight.
Prodynorphin gene transcripts have been characterized in human tissues with cRNA probes covering parts of the non-coding exon 1 and the main coding exon 4 using Northern blot and RNase protection experiments. A 2.8-kb signal was observed in human brain RNA with both the exon 1 and exon 4 probes. An RNase protection assay with the exon 1 probe, performed to map the 5' end of this transcript, produced protected fragments in the range of 0.11 to 0.15 kb indicating that exon 1 is 1.2 kb shorter than previously proposed. 5'-RACE-PCR and sequencing of amplified cDNA fragments confirmed this assignment. In adrenal gland, testis and the human small cell lung carcinoma cell line, U1690, several prodynorphin-like mRNAs structurally different from the brain prodynorphin mRNA species were observed.
In view of the possible role of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis in the long-term effects of drugs of abuse, we studied the response of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis to cocaine challenges 3 and 14 days after cocaine withdrawal. Three days after intermittent cocaine exposure, the cocaine-induced increase of plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) is unchanged, whereas after 14 days the ACTH response is enhanced 2-fold. The cocaine-induced increase of plasma corticosterone is enhanced approximately 1.5-fold both 3 and 14 days after cocaine withdrawal. Apparently, prior cocaine treatment causes a delayed sensitization of cocaine-induced ACTH secretion and long-lasting corticosterone hyper-responsiveness. We propose that the long-lasting changes in the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis may facilitate drug-induced long-term behavioral sensitization.
In this study we examined a possible contribution of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) to spatial memory performance in the rat. Rats were trained to run in a radial maze in a manner that involved two kinds of memory function, i.e. working memory and reference memory. They received intrahippocampal microinjections of a 5-HT1A [8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin or 8-OH-DPAT], or a 5-HT1B [3-(1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyrid-4-yl)pyrrolo[3,2-b]pyrid-5-one or CP-93,129] receptor agonist, and a muscarinic receptor antagonist (scopolamine). 8-OH-DPAT (5 micrograms/microliters), like injections of saline, induced no change in performance levels. In contrast, rats suffered an impairment in both reference and working memory following injection of scopolamine (10 micrograms/microliters). CP-93,129 induced a higher frequency of reference memory errors than of working memory errors at the intermediate (10 micrograms/microliters) and higher doses (16 micrograms/microliters). Thus, the stimulation of 5-HT1B receptors in the CA1 field of the dorsal hippocampus impairs the performance of rats in a spatial learning task.
Current methods for purifying caveolae from tissue culture cells take advantage of the Triton X-100 insolubility of this membrane domain. To circumvent the use of detergents, we have developed a method that depends upon the unique buoyant density of caveolae membrane. The caveolae fractions that we obtain are highly enriched in caveolin. As a consequence we are able to identify caveolae-associated proteins that had previously gone undetected. Moreover, resident caveolae proteins that are soluble in Triton X-100 are retained during the isolation.
The effects of the mu opioid receptor agonists, morphine and Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-N-methyl-Phe-Gly-ol (DAGO), the delta opioid receptor agonist, Tyr-D-Pen-Gly-Phe-D-penicillamine (DPDPE) and the kappa-opioid receptor agonist, dynorphin A-(1-13) on the whole-cell K+ currents (IK) of cultured mouse DRG neurons and neuroblastoma X DRG neuron hybrid F11 cells were studied. These opioid ligands all elicited dual effects. Low concentrations (&lt; nM) usually elicited a transient increase in IK (within 1 min), followed by a sustained decrease in IK. In contrast, microM concentrations rapidly elicited a sustained increase in IK. After brief treatment with cholera toxin subunit B (CTX-B), the usual sustained decrease in IK evoked by &lt; nM opioid agonists no longer occurred. Low concentrations then elicited only a sustained increase in IK. On the other hand, after chronic treatment with pertussis toxin (PTX), the usual microM opioid-induced increases in IK no longer occurred and more than half of the cells responded with a sustained decrease of IK to microM as well as nM opioids. The results suggest that mu, delta and kappa opioid receptors are each coupled to K+ channels through CTX-B- and PTX-sensitive transduction systems. Both systems have similar threshold concentrations to opioids. Activation of the CTX-B-sensitive opioid receptor/transduction system resulted in a decrease in K+ conductance of the cell which is generally associated with an increase in neuronal excitability. Activation of the other system resulted in an increase in K+ conductance which will, in general, decrease neuronal excitability. The net change in the IK depends upon which effect predominates. The dominance at different opioid concentrations may depend on the relative efficacies of the coupling of these two systems to K+ channels.
Previous studies have indicated that nitric oxide, a labile freely diffusible biological messenger synthesized by nitric oxide synthase, may modulate light transduction and signal transmission in the retina. In the present work, the large size of retinal cells in tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum) allowed the utilization of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase histochemistry and nitric oxide synthase immunocytochemistry to delineate the cell-specific intracellular localization of nitric oxide synthase. NADPH-diaphorase activity was highly concentrated in the outer retina, in rod and cone inner segment ellipsoids, and between and adjacent to the photoreceptor cell bodies in the outer nuclear layer. Examination of enzymatically isolated retinal cells indicated that outer nuclear layer NADPH-diaphorase activity was localized to the distal processes of the retinal glial (Mller) cells and to putative bipolar cell Landolt clubs. Less intense NADPH-diaphorase activity was seen in the photoreceptor inner segment myoid region, in a small number of inner nuclear layer cells, in cap-like configurations at the distal poles of cells in the ganglion cell layer and surrounding ganglion cell layer somata, and in punctate form within both plexiform layers, the pigment epithelium, and the optic nerve. Nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity was similarly localized, but was also concentrated along a thin sublamina centered within the inner plexiform layer. The potential for nitric oxide generation at multiple retinal sites suggests that this molecule may play a number of roles in the processing of visual information in the retina.
Many branched patterns in nature are hypothesized to be fractal, i.e., statistically self-similar across a range of scales. We tested this hypothesis on the two-dimensional arbors of retinal neurons and blood vessels. First, we measured fractalness on synthetic fractal and nonfractal patterns. The synthetic fractal patterns exhibited self-similarity over a decade of scale, but the nonfractal &quot;controls&quot; showed hardly any self-similarity. Neuronal and vascular patterns showed no greater self-similarity than the controls. Second, we manipulated a synthetic fractal pattern to remove its self-similarity and found this to be reflected in a loss of measured fractalness. The same manipulation of the nonfractal control and also of the neural and vascular patterns did not alter their measured fractalness. Third, we &quot;grew&quot; patterns of branched line segments according to a variety of nonfractal algorithms. These patterns were, if anything slightly more fractal than the neural and vascular patterns. We conclude that the biological patterns studied here are not fractal. Finally, we measured extended versions of these patterns: a contiguous array of homotypic neuron arbors and a vascular pattern with a high degree of total detail. These patterns showed a &quot;fractal dimension&quot; of 2, which implies that down to some cut-off scale they fill space completely. Thus, neural and vascular patterns might best be described as quasi-regular lattices.
The distribution of synaptic terminals onto spinothalamic tract cells (types I and II) of the superficial dorsal horn was determined with special reference to the amino acid transmitters glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid. Fifteen spinothalamic cells retrogradely labeled from the thalamus with the neuroanatomical tracer wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase were sectioned for electron microscopy. Serial sections from several levels through each cell were immunostained for glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid using a postembedding immunogold technique. Perimeter measurements of spinothalamic cell somata and dendrites and the lengths of apposition for all terminal profiles in contact with the spinothalamic cells were obtained from electron micrographs using a digitizing tablet. These data were used to determine the density of terminals on the soma and dendrites. In addition, the terminal population on these cells was categorized by transmitter content (glutamate, gamma-aminobutyric acid, or unlabeled). The results demonstrate that terminal density increased on dendrites relative to their distance from the soma. Glutamatergic and GABAergic input composed 37% and 20% of the terminal population, respectively, and these percentages remained uniform for the soma and dendrites. There were no significant differences among the 15 cells analyzed for this study. The results, therefore, suggest that both type I and type II STT cells of the superficial DH have similar synaptic organizations.
In the rat, fibers from the prelimbic cortex terminate in the medial nucleus accumbens. Anterior paraventricular thalamic and parvicellular basal amygdaloid fibers reached both the prelimbic cortex and the medial nucleus accumbens. All three afferent systems have an inhomogenous distribution within the nucleus accumbens, and whether or not these projections actually reach the same areas is unknown. Our aim was to evaluate the relationships of the three afferents with respect to the shell, the core, and the cell clusters of the nucleus accumbens. Double anterograde tracing and single anterograde tracing combined with immunohistochemistry for calbindin (D28k) or Nissl stain was used. Following tracer injections in the prelimbic cortex and the anterior paraventricular thalamus, a complementary (i.e., nonoverlapping) pattern of fibers was found in the shell. Thus, afferents from the prelimbic cortex are associated with cell clusters, whereas those from the anterior paraventricular thalamus avoid these cells but are affiliated with regions exhibiting weak homogeneous calbindin immunoreactivity. In the calbindin-poor patches of the core, the situation is reversed as both sets of fibers overlap. In cases with injections in the prelimbic cortex and the parvicellular basal amygdala, a pattern of overlap was seen in the shell and core. Thus, the fibers in the shell were found together in association with cell clusters, whereas regions of weak homogeneous calbindin immunoreactivity were avoided. In the core, overlap was seen in the patch compartment. Finally, with parvicellular basal amygdala/paraventricular thalamus injections, a complementary fiber organization was present in the shell, but overlap was prominent in the patches of the core. The results demonstrate that the relationships of prelimbic cortical, paraventricular thalamic, and parvicellular basal amygdaloid afferents in the nucleus accumbens vary according to their compartmental (immunohistochemical and cellular) affiliation. Compartmentalization is therefore a possible anatomical substrate for condensation or segregation of neuronal signals passing through the nucleus accumbens.

We have studied by in situ hybridization histochemistry the mRNA expression of the c-fos immediate early gene in the brains of wild type and dwarf(dw/dw) and little(lit/lit) mutant mice after systemic injections of the synthetic GH secretagogues GHRP-6 and L-163,191. Both GH secretagogues induced a marked c-fos mRNA expression in the arcuate-ventromedial hypothalamus (ARC-VMH) of both control and mutant mice indicating a possible action on growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) neurones in the ARC-VMH. Both dw/dw and lit/lit mice showed a 5-fold elevation in GHRH mRNA expression in the ARC-VMH compared with control animals under basal conditions. Since lit/lit mice have a reduced ability to secrete GH and lack a functional GHRH receptor while dw/dw mice lack both GH and presumably GHRH receptors, the GH-secretagogue-induced c-fos mRNA in the brain of these mutants are unlikely to be mediated by an indirect action of GH or a interaction of the synthetic GH-secretagogue with the GHRH receptor.
The monosynaptic connection between muscle spindle Ia afferents and motoneurones is one of the most extensively studied reflex pathways in the central nervous system. Physiological evidence has pointed to glutamate as the fast transmitter in this synaptic connection. In this study of the spinal cord segment C2, we used dual labelling with cholera toxin subunit B-horseradish peroxidase (B-HRP) and postembedding immunohistochemistry to show that group Ia primary afferent boutons synapsing on retrogradely labelled central cervical nucleus (CCN) neurones and motoneurones are enriched in glutamate-like immunoreactivity (LI). All double-labelled Ia terminals studied could be classified as S-type (CCN neurones and motoneurones) or M-type (motoneurones) boutons.
Four rats were trained on an object delayed non-matching to sample task to measure working memory (WM). On separate trials a sample object was presented to the rat, which was presented again along with another object after a 3 s delay rats were rewarded with food if they chose the novel object. In this procedure the choice objects are positioned in a fixed order (the novel object was positioned at first, followed by the sample object). When the order of placement of the choice objects was reversed performance dropped from 87% to 28% correct, showing that the rats always chose the object that was first positioned into the choice area. When the order of positioning of the choice objects was randomized during training, rats were not able to learn the task. It is suggested that performance is based on a discrimination between choice objects instead of WM.
Partial peripheral nerve injury often leads to chronic neuropathic pain characterized by symptoms such as allodynia. In the present study, employing a rat model of experimental neuropathy produced by partial denervation of the tail, we examined whether peripheral nerve injury-induced mechanical and thermal allodynia were affected by the animal's age at the time of the injury. The motive of this study was the demonstration in other neuropathy models of the age effects on the manifestation of neuropathic pain symptoms following partial peripheral nerve injury. We compared two groups of young (n = 23, 7-8 weeks old, 150-200 g) and old rats (n = 14, 16-18 months old, 550-800 g). We found that the older rats exhibited more vigorously the behavioral signs of mechanical allodynia during the first week after the nerve injury. With respect to thermal (cold or warm) allodynia, however, we detected no significant difference between young and old rat groups. The results of the present study, as those of previous studies, support the idea that the age at the time of partial peripheral nerve injury affects the severity of certain neuropathic pain symptoms appearing after the injury. However, the present results argue against the suggestion from previous studies that younger subjects are more vulnerable to partial peripheral nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain symptoms.

Skeletal muscle development involves the formation of multi-nucleated myotubes. This is thought to proceed by the induction of differentiation (acquisition of fusion competence) of myoblast cells, their aggregation, and union of their plasma membranes. Various membrane proteins including N- and M-cadherins, N- and V-CAMs and integrins participate in myotube formation, but the molecular mechanisms of muscle cell fusion are poorly understood. Here we report the identification of three new, myoblast-expressed gene products, meltrin-alpha, beta and gamma, with homology to both viper haemorrhagic factors and fertilin (PH-30), a membrane protein involved in egg-sperm fusion. Meltrin-alpha, a member of the metalloproteinase/disintegrin protein family, appears to be required for myotube formation. Involvement of a fertilin-related protein in myogenesis suggests that there are common mechanisms in gamete and myoblast fusion.
Asymmetric divisions that produce two distinct cells play fundamental roles in generating different cell types during development. In the Drosophila central nervous system, neural stem cells called neuroblasts divide unequally into another neuroblast and a ganglion mother cell which is subsequently cleaved into neurons. Correct gene expression of ganglion mother cells requires the transcription factor Prospero. Here we demonstrate the asymmetric segregation of Prospero on neuroblast division. Prospero synthesized in neuroblasts is retained in the cytoplasm and at mitosis is exclusively partitioned to ganglion mother cells, in which it is translocated to the nucleus. Differential segregation of Prospero was also found in the endoderm. We have identified a region in Prospero that is responsible for this event. The region shares a common motif with Numb, which also shows unequal segregation. We propose that asymmetric segregation of transcription factors is an intrinsic mechanism for establishing asymmetry in gene expression between sibling cells.
Brain interleukin-1 (IL-1) plays a key role in mediating the neural, endocrine, and behavioral consequences of injury and infection. Recent evidence indicates that brain IL-1 may also be important in producing endocrine and neurochemical responses to stressors. The present experiment sought to determine whether intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of an interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) would block behavioral effects of a stressor. I.c.v. application of hrIL-1ra before inescapable shock blocked the subsequent interference with escape learning and enhancement of fear conditioning normally produced by this treatment.
The GAD mouse is a spontaneous neurological mutant with axonal dystrophy in the gracile tract of the medulla oblongata and spinal cord. The immunoreactivity of amyloid precursor protein (APP-IR) and amyloid beta-protein (A beta P-IR) was examined in the gracile tract and the dorsal root ganglia of normal and GAD mice. The mice were studied at 4, 9, 18, and 32 weeks of age. These periods correspond clinically to the initial, progressive, critical, and terminal stages of the disease, respectively. The APP-IR in both axons and glial cells was already accentuated to a higher level as early as 4 weeks of age in the gracile nucleus of GAD mouse. Similarly there was increase in APP-IR of GAD mouse in the dorsal root ganglia. Almost all of the primary neurons in the dorsal root ganglia at the lumbar cord level of GAD mouse revealed stronger APP-IR than those of normal mouse throughout all stages. The cells showing immunoreactivity for amyloid beta-protein became positive in axons and glial cells in the gracile nucleus by approximately the 9th week, and followed by an increase of A beta P-IR in order of the cervical, thoracic and lumbar spinal cords. These results suggest that the initial feature in GAD mouse is an accumulation of amyloid precursor protein induced by axonal dystrophy which then leads to a deposition of amyloid beta-protein within the cytoplasm of both axons and glial cells in the gracile tract.
Amantadine (1-aminoadamantane) induced Fos expression in the central, dorsal-medial and ventral-medial part of the striatum. The distribution pattern of Fos induced by amantadine was more similar to those seen with dopaminomimetics than with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists. Pretreatment with the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, SCH23390, and the NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801, blocked amantadine induction of Fos in the striatum. However, amantadine induction of Fos in the striatum was unaffected by the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, sulpiride. These results suggest that amantadine induction of Fos in the rat striatum is related to dopamine D1 and NMDA receptors.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) may occur in humans exposed chronically to stressors or after a single exposure to a traumatic event. A distinguishing feature of patients with PTSD is an exaggerated startle response, evident long after the traumatic event. We have observed similar abnormalities in our animal model of a chronic stress state. Rats exposed to 3 days (3DS) of our stress regimen (2-hr sessions of 40, 2 mA tailshocks) have exhibited a consistent pattern of persistent physiological and behavioral abnormalities including an exaggerated startle response several days after stressor cessation. In contrast, rats exposed to a single stress session (1DS) have exhibited many, but not all, of the persistent abnormalities displayed by 3DS rats. The present experiment compared the startle responding of 3DS and 1DS rats 4, 7, and 10 days after stressor cessation. Consistent with previous work, stressed rats exhibited elevated basal plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels the first day poststressor. These CORT levels were sensitive to the number of stressor exposures with higher CORT levels in 3DS rats than in 1DS rats. As for startle responding, the 1DS rats exhibited an exaggerated startle response 7 days poststressor, whereas startle sensitization was apparent 10 days poststressor in 3DS rats. Thus, the appearance of an exaggerated startle response after stressor cessation appears to be related to the number of stress session exposures. These animal models, the 3DS and 1DS rats, may be useful to gain insight into the neurobehavioral changes associated with PTSD.
Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells are commonly used for expression of the genes of cloned neurotransmitter receptors to study their pharmacology and coupling to signal transduction pathways. It is usually assumed that host cells do not endogenously express the specific receptor under consideration. We demonstrate in this report that CHO cells contain endogenous functional muscarinic acetylcholine receptors which, in some circumstances, might complicate interpretation of data related to the properties of exogenously expressed receptors.


Microglia activation by lipopolysaccharides (LPS) significantly decreased choline acetyltransferase-immunopositive (ChAT+) neuron number and ChAT activity in rat primary basal forebrain mixed neuronal/glial cultures. The number of non-cholinergic (ChAT(-)) neurons was unaffected. LPS induced nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in microglia, increased the media level of the NO metabolite nitrite, and the NOS inhibitor Ng-nitro-L-arginine methylester (NAME) protected the ChAT+ neurons from LPS. The combination of beta-amyloid peptide (1-42) and interferon-gamma (INF-gamma) also increased the media nitrite level and decreased ChAT+ neuron number. Cholinergic neurons are lost early in the course of Alzheimer's disease, and the enhanced sensitivity of these neurons to microglial activation in mixed neuronal/glial culture may be useful for modeling Alzheimer's disease and developing therapeutic strategies to combat this disease.

We have determined the volume and location of hippocampal tissue required for normal acquisition of a spatial memory task. Ibotenic acid was used to make bilateral symmetric lesions of 20-100% of hippocampal volume. Even a small transverse block (minislab) of the hippocampus (down to 26% of the total) could support spatial learning in a water maze, provided it was at the septal (dorsal) pole of the hippocampus. Lesions of the septal pole, leaving 60% of the hippocampi intact, caused a learning deficit, although normal electrophysiological responses, synaptic plasticity, and preserved acetylcholinesterase staining argue for adequate function of the remaining tissue. Thus, with an otherwise normal brain, hippocampal-dependent spatial learning only requires a minislab of dorsal hippocampal tissue.
We describe a method of systematically searching for major genes in disorders of unknown mode of inheritance, using linkage analysis. Our method is designed to minimize the probability of missing linkage due to inadequate exploration of data. We illustrate this method with the results of a search for a locus for schizophrenia on chromosome 12 using 22 highly polymorphic markers in 23 high density pedigrees. The markers span approximately 85-90% of the chromosome and are on average 9.35 cM apart. We have analysed the data using the most plausible current genetic models and allowing for the presence of genetic heterogeneity. None of the markers was supportive of linkage and the distribution of the heterogeneity statistics was in accordance with the null hypothesis.
This study examined responses of 35 neurons in the caudal intralaminar (IL) thalamic nuclei in 12 adult female virgin rats to mechanical stimulation of the skin (brush, pressure, pinch) and to 4 different visceral stimuli (noxious distension of the uterine horns and vaginal canal; gentle distension of the colon and probing the cervix). As in male rats and other species, many IL neurons (24/35) responded to frankly noxious somatic stimuli applied to several bodily regions. Some of these (16/24) also responded to one or more of the visceral stimuli (mainly the noxious ones), while 4/35 responded only to a visceral stimulus. Thus, unlike neurons in lateral thalamus studied under identical conditions, IL neurons appear to be signalling information primarily when intense somatic and visceral stimuli are frankly above the noxious threshold.
We have analyzed the cis-regulatory regions in the 5' flanking DNA of the Drosophila melanogaster choline acetyltransferase (ChAT; E.C. 2.3.1.6) gene by using germline transformants. These transformants are carrying wild-type ChAT cDNA fused to different lengths of 5' flanking sequence of the ChAT gene. Appropriate genetic crosses were used to introduce the transgene into animals with a presumptive null genetic background for endogenous ChAT. Expression of ChAT protein could thus be attributed exclusively to the transgene. Using a monoclonal antibody against Drosophila ChAT, we have investigated the spatial distribution of transgenic ChAT and compared it to the normal distribution of ChAT protein in wild-type animals. The brains of 7.4 kb cDNA transformants showed a ChAT expression pattern similar to that of wild-type animals in the first- and second-order sensory neuropil but reduced expression in other highly ordered neuropil. Several lines that were transformed with 1.2 kb or 0.8 kb of 5' flanking DNA demonstrated relatively normal expression in sensory neuropil. In addition, these lines also showed ectopic expression in higher order neuropil. In the optic lobe, the expression pattern directed by 7.4 kb of 5' flanking DNA was very similar to that of wild-type ChAT expression. In contrast, 1.2 kb or 0.8 kb transformants showed reduced levels of expression and a more limited pattern of distribution in the optic lobe. Our results suggest that the 5' flanking DNA of the ChAT gene can be divided into several separable positive and negative regulatory regions, which define various subsets of cholinergic neurons in the nervous system.
The prenatal and postnatal development of calretinin (CR)-containing elements in the neocortex of the rat was analyzed using immunohistochemistry. CR immunoreactivity in the cortical anlage appeared early at embryonic day 14 (E14), with CR-positive neurons located in the primitive plexiform layer and in the emerging subplate and marginal zones. At later prenatal and early postnatal stages, these two layers showed the highest CR immunostaining in the cortex, and large numbers of cell bodies and fibers were immunostained. From postnatal day 3 (P3) onwards, CR immunostaining disappeared progressively from the subplate-layer VIb and the marginal zone-layer I, so that very few cells remained stained in these layers in the adult. In the cortical plate and prospective layers VIa to II-III, CR-positive neurons were seen at prenatal stages, their numbers increasing markedly during the first postnatal week. Most neurons showed undifferentiated nonpyramidal shapes, and matured during the second and third postnatal weeks, when the adult pattern of CR immunostaining was achieved. In addition, some pyramidal-like neurons in the infragranular layers and in layer II-III transiently expressed CR during the postnatal period, most notably between P3 and P12. Colocalization experiments performed at P0-P3 with antibodies against the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) showed that most nonpyramidal CR-positive neurons in the derivates of the cortical plate were also GABAergic during development. In contrast, large numbers of CR-containing neurons in the subplate and marginal zone were GABA-negative. The present results show that in addition to recording the early development of a subset of nonpyramidal neurons, CR is transiently expressed in certain GABA-negative populations of the subplate and marginal zone, and most likely in pyramidal neurons.
We studied the mechanism of antagonism of p-chloroamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity by dextromethorphan. The pretreatment with potent and selective sigma receptor ligands, 4-phenyl-4-(1-phenylbutyl)piperidine (4-PPBP) and N,N-dipropyl-2-[4-methoxy-3-(2-phenylethoxy)phenyl]-ethylamine monohydrochloride (NE-100), did not alter the reduction of 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in the cerebral cortex by repeated administration of p-chloroamphetamine. These results suggest that sigma receptors might not play a significant role in the antagonism of p-chloroamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity by dextromethorphan.
In anesthetized rats, stimulation of the arterial chemoreceptors excites reticulospinal vasomotor neurons of the nucleus rostroventrolateral reticularis of the medulla oblongata, via activating the neuronal NMDA receptors. Excitation of these neurons is responsible for reflex increases in sympathetic neuronal activity and arterial pressure. Additional doses (0.12-0.24 g/kg i.v.) of urethane dose-dependently reduced the elevations in the discharge rate of reticulospinal vasomotor and sympathetic neurons and of arterial pressure, elicited by stimulating the carotid chemoreceptors with intra-carotid injections of sodium cyanide (100 nmol/10 microl), without affecting discharges of the carotid chemoafferents. Microiontophoresis of urethane onto the reticulospinal vasomotor neurons reversibly inhibited the excitation elicited by stimulation of the chemoreceptors and by iontophoretically applied L-glutamate. The results indicate that the suppression of chemoreflexes by excessive amount of urethane is central and one of its blocking excitatory amino acid transmission onto these vasomotor neurons.
Phorbol esters, activators of protein kinase C (PKC), regulate the relative utilization of alternative processing pathways for the Alzheimer beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP) in intact cells, increasing the production of nonamyloidogenic soluble beta-APP (s beta-APP) and decreasing that of neurotoxic beta-amyloid (A beta) peptide. The molecular and cellular bases of PKC-regulated beta-APP cleavage are poorly understood. Here we demonstrate in a reconstituted cell-free system that activation of endogenous PKC increases formation from the trans-Golgi network of secretory vesicles containing beta-APP and that this effect can be mimicked by purified PKC. The results demonstrate directly that PKC is involved in regulation of secretory vesicle formation and provide a mechanism by which PKC may reduce the formation of the A beta peptide characteristic of Alzheimer disease.
The effect of oxidative stress, induced by ascorbate (1.5 mM)/Fe2+ (7.5 microM), on the cellular responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation was evaluated by measuring the release of [3H]GABA induced by NMDA from cultured retina cells. In retina cells submitted to oxidative stress the [3H]GABA release evoked by NMDA, in a medium containing physiological concentrations of Mg2+ (1.6 mM) and K+ (4 mM), was significantly higher than in control cells. The [3H]GABA release evoked by NMDA was potentiated by glycine and was abolished by MK-801, suggesting that the [3H]GABA release was due to NMDA receptor activation. The increased effect of NMDA in peroxidized cells was significantly reduced by TTX, suggesting that the higher cellular responses to the activation of NMDA receptors are due to a hyperexcitability of retina cells submitted to oxidative stress. No significant differences were found between the average resting membrane potential of control and peroxidized cells. However, membrane potential is more tightly regulated by K(+)-channels sensitive to 4-aminopyridine (100 microM), alpha-dendrotoxin (100 nM) and gamma-dendrotoxin (100 nM) under oxidative stress.
In order to determine whether apoptosis contributes to the neuronal loss in scrapie, in situ end labeling was applied on brains of mice showing clinical signs of the disease. Positively labeled, apoptotic neurons were observed in the cerebellum, cerebral cortex and hippocampus, areas known to show characteristic scrapie-related vacuolation, and were absent in the brains of control mice. We conclude that apoptosis plays a role in the neuronal loss that occurs in scrapie. The importance of apoptosis as a predominant cell death mechanism in scrapie, however, remains to be determined.
Hypotension- and hypertension-evoked expression of the protein product, Fos, of the immediate early gene c-fos was assessed throughout the rat brain as an approach for describing the neuronal populations that respond to alterations in arterial blood pressure. Conscious, chronically catheterized rats were treated with the vasoconstricting drug phenylephrine or the vasodilatating drug hydralazine to increase or decrease, respectively, arterial pressure by approx. 40 mm Hg for 90 min. Rats were then anesthetized, fixed by vascular perfusion, and sections representing the entire brain were processed for the immunocytochemical localization of Fos. In control rats treated with isotonic saline, few Fos-positive neurons were observed. In contrast, phenylephrine and hydralazine treatments resulted in different, yet reproducible, patterns of Fos expression in the brain, with hydralazine evoking Fos expression in more brain regions than phenylephrine. Brain regions containing Fos-positive neurons in rats treated with hydralazine included nucleus tractus solitarius, area postrema, caudal ventrolateral medulla, rostral ventrolateral medulla, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, amygdala, paraventricular nucleus, supraoptic nucleus, subfornical organ and the Islands of Calleja. The nucleus tractus solitarius, paraventricular nucleus and the amygdala also contained Fos-positive neurons in phenylephrine-treated rats, although the number of Fos-positive neurons was always less than that noted in the hydralazine-treated rats and the location of Fos-positive neurons within these regions tended to differ between treatments. These results generally fit within an emerging understanding of brain circuitry underlying cardiovascular regulation.
In Xenopus oocytes, as well as other cells, inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (Ins(1,4,5)P3)-induced Ca2+ release is an excitable process that generates propagating Ca2+ waves that annihilate upon collision. The fundamental property responsible for excitability appears to be the Ca2+ dependency of the Ins(1,4,5)P3 receptor. Here we report that Ins(1,4,5)P3-induced Ca2+ wave activity is strengthened by oxidizable substrates that energize mitochondria, increasing Ca2+ wave amplitude, velocity and interwave period. The effects of pyruvate/malate are blocked by ruthenium red at the Ca2+ uniporter, by rotenone at complex I, and by antimycin A at complex III, and are subsequently rescued at complex IV by ascorbate tetramethylphenylenediamine (TMPD). Our data reveal that potential-driven mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake is a major factor in the regulation of Ins(1,4,5)P3-induced Ca2+ release and clearly demonstrate a physiological role of mitochondria in intracellular Ca2+ signalling.
In this study the effect of the A1 agonist 2-chloro-N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CCPA) on bis(1,3-diethylthiobarbituric acid)trimethine oxonol (bisoxonol)-monitored membrane potential in cerebrocortical nerve endings was evaluated. CCPA (30, 100 and 300 microM) caused a dose-dependent decrease of high K(+)- and veratridine-induced membrane depolarization. This decrease was counteracted by the A1-specific antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX) (30-100 microM). On the contrary, the A2 receptor antagonist 9-chloro-2-(2-furanyl)-5,6-dihydro-1,2,4-triazolol-[1,5-c]quinazol ine-5- imine (CGS 15943) was unable to interfere with the lowering effect exerted by CCPA (100 microM) on K(+)-elicited membrane depolarization. Finally, the A2 receptor agonist 2-[p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamine]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680) did not induce any modification of K(+)-induced membrane depolarization. The results of the present study suggest that K(+)-induced membrane depolarization in cerebrocortical brain nerve endings may be modulated by A1 receptors.
Testosterone is an important trophic factor for motoneurons in the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB), and SNB motoneurons are more responsive to testosterone than are other motoneurons. Axonal injury during early postnatal life prevents the normal development of steroid-sensitivity by adult SNB motoneurons. Axonal injury also causes changes in the expression by motoneurons of a wide range of proteins, including the up-regulation of trophic factor receptors. We have used a polyclonal antibody (PG-21; G.S. Prins) to study the expression of androgen receptors in SNB motoneurons after axonal injury. PG-21 labeled motoneuronal nuclei in the lower lumbar spinal cord of rats in a pattern that matched autoradiographic reports of androgen accumulation in this region of the nervous system. A population of numerous, small cells located dorsal to the central canal also showed evidence of androgen receptor expression. Cutting the axons of SNB motoneurons in adulthood or in development caused a decrease in androgen receptor immunoreactivity in SNB motoneurons. This is the first report that a trophic factor receptor in motoneurons is down-regulated after axonal injury, and is interesting in light of reports that testosterone treatment can facilitate motoneuronal regeneration after nerve cut. Androgen receptor levels subsequently returned to normal, regardless of the age at axotomy, providing no evidence for a lasting effect of developmental axotomy on androgen receptor levels in SNB motoneurons. Thus, axotomy-induced down-regulation of androgen receptors does not underlie the inability of SNB motoneurons to respond to androgen treatment several months after pudendal nerve cut in development.
Effect of chronic restraint stress on the number of dendritic spines and excrescences of hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons has been investigated. The results revealed a significant increase in the number of dendritic spines of apical and basal dendrites in rats subjected to restraint stress (6 h per day for 21 days). The number of excrescences were also markedly increased in stressed rats. The physiological significance and possible mechanism for increased spine density is discussed.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) at the base of the hypothalamus are known to be the site of the endogenous circadian pacemaker in mammals. The SCN are innervated by the retinohypothalamic tract, which conveys photic information to the SCN. GABA is one of the most abundant neurotransmitters in the SCN, and has been implicated in the modulation of photic responses of the SCN circadian pacemaker. This study sought to examine the effect of GABAergic compounds on optic nerve-evoked SCN field potentials recorded in rat horizontal hypothalamic slices. The GABAA agonist muscimol (10 microM) potentiated SCN field potentials by 23%, while application of the GABAA antagonist bicuculline (10 microM) inhibited SCN field potentials by a similar amount, (22%). Conversely, the GABA, agonist baclofen (1.0 microM) inhibited SCN field potentials by 48%, while the GABAB antagonist phaclofen (0.5 mM) augmented SCN field potentials by 62%. Recordings performed at both day and night times indicate that there were no qualitative day-night differences in GABAergic activity on SCN field potentials. This study concludes that, in general, GABAA activity tends to increase, and GABAB activity tends to decrease the response of SCN neurons to optic nerve stimulation.
Chronic morphine-treated dorsal-root ganglion (DRG) neurons in DRG/spinal cord explant cultures were previously shown to become supersensitive to the excitatory effects of remarkably low concentrations of the opioid agonists, morphine and dynorphin, and the opioid antagonist, naloxone. The present study demonstrates that this opioid excitatory supersensitivity of chronic morphine-treated DRG neurons (1 microM for &gt; 1 week) is retained for periods &gt; 3 months after return to control culture medium. Acute application of femtomolar dynorphin, as well as nanomolar naloxone, to the treated neurons after months in control medium evoked characteristic prolongation of the action potential duration (APD), as occurs in cells tested during or shortly after chronic opioid exposure. The threshold concentrations for eliciting these excitatory effects in naive DRG neurons are &gt; 1000-fold higher. Furthermore, treatment of micromolar morphine-sensitized neurons with 1 nM etorphine (which is a potent excitatory opioid receptor antagonist) for I week prior to return to control medium blocked further expression of opioid excitatory supersensitivity when tested after an additional 1-7 weeks in culture. These results provide a unique in vitro model system for analyses of some of the cellular mechanisms underlying protracted opioid dependence in vivo.
In perinatal leukomalacia, the brain pathology exhibits several different distribution patterns, according to cerebrovascular and glial maturity or various causal factors. Periventricular leukomalacia occurs in the prenatal as well as the postnatal period, and is caused by, in addition to predisposing factors, cerebral hypoperfusion which is in turn caused by systemic hypotension or intracranial vascular constriction and circulatory disturbance. Oligodendroglial damage or diffuse astrogliosis associated with leukomalacia may lead to delayed or reduced myelination in the cerebral white matter.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF) are expressed in many areas of the nervous system and its target tissues. Using in situ hybridization we have investigated the possible presence of NGF mRNA and BDNF mRNA in the developing fungiform and circumvallate papillae of the rat tongue. BDNF mRNA is present in the epithelium of the developing fungiform papillae in E15, E16, and E17 rat embryos with peak concentration at E16. It starts to diminish after E17 and is almost absent at E21. There is a specific temporospatial change in the expression of BDNF mRNA in developing circumvallate papillae. It is expressed in the epithelium of the superior and posterior surfaces of the papillae at E15, E16, and E17. Already at E17 the BDNF mRNA labeling has started to decrease in the superior epithelium. At E19 and E21, BDNF mRNA is exclusively present in the epithelium of the inner and outer walls of the trench, surrounding the papilla at the posterior and lateral surfaces where the taste buds are located later in life. BDNF mRNA was also detected in the developing palatal taste buds. NGF mRNA was below detection level in the developing papillae. The highly localized expression of BDNF mRNA in areas where taste buds are to be formed suggests that BDNF may be one crucial factor in the formation of the epithelial innervation prior to taste bud formation. It might also participate in the formation and/or maintenance of the papillary and/or taste bud innervation apparatus. We conclude that the neurotrophin BDNF is expressed in early development of taste bud-bearing papillae in the rat tongue in a temporally and spatially controlled manner, presumably to act as a target-derived chemoattractant for the early nerve fibers.
Tissue plasminogen activator activity in the developing cerebellum, as quantified by zymography of cerebellar homogenates from embryonic day (E) 17 to adult mice, shows a peak of activity at postnatal day (P) 7, followed by a steady 75% decrease into adulthood. Northern blot analysis reveals a similar pattern for tissue plasminogen activator mRNA levels, which are low at E17 but increase dramatically, reaching their highest levels of specific mRNA/micrograms RNA in P1-P7 mice and declining about threefold in the adult mouse. In situ hybridization of whole mouse brain sections with a tissue plasminogen activator antisense cRNA probe shows pronounce reactivity in the cerebellum. Although some binding is associated with the cerebellar meninges, the external granule layer is devoid of tissue plasminogen activator mRNA at all ages. However, highly labeled elongated cells, which also bind antibody to neuronal nuclear antigen and are adjacent to Bergmann glial fibers (i.e., migrating granule neurons), are readily visible throughout the molecular and Purkinje layers at P7 and P14. In the adult mouse cerebellum, tissue plasminogen activator mRNA labeling is restricted to cells in the Purkinje/internal granule layers. Thus, tissue plasminogen activator gene expression is induced as granule neurons leave the external granule layer and begin their inward migration.
Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is an autosomal dominant disease in which loss of function mutations of the NF2 gene lead to the development of schwannomas, meningiomas and juvenile cataracts. We studied the mouse NF2 homologue (Nf2) to determine its precise pattern of mRNA and protein expression. In situ hybridization showed that Nf2 is expressed in neuronal cells as well as in epithelial and fibre cells of the lens. The Nf2 protein, schwannomin, is expressed as a single protein isoform of approximately 80 kDa in neuronal and non-neuronal tissues. In Purkinje cells of the cerebellum and motor neurones of the spinal cord, the protein is in the cytoplasm. In non-neuronal tissues immunostaining showed expression in cells of the tunica intima of blood vessels. We conclude that there is a widespread but cell type-specific expression of schwannomin.
We investigated whether astrocytes store and synthesize agmatine (decarboxylated arginine), an endogenous ligand for imidazoline and alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, in brain. Agmatine, detected chemically and immunocytochemically, is contained in cultured astrocytes and C6 glioma cells (8.5 +/- 1.4 and 1.8 +/- 0.6 nmol mg-1 protein, respectively). Glial membranes express activity for arginine decarboxylase (ADC), the biosynthetic enzyme for agmatine (astrocytes 85.4 +/- 9.2; C6 cells 18.2 +/- 3.12 nmol h-1 mg-1 protein). Lipopolysaccharide, and inducer of glial nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), significantly reduced (C6) or did not affect (astrocytes) ADC activity. Inferferon-gamma, not affecting iNOS, elevated ADC activity in both cell types. Astrocytes are a site of synthesis and storage of agmatine. ADC and iNOS enzymes synthesizing distinct bioactive products from L-arginine, may be reciprocally regulated.
One year after the achievement of the 2 weeks ANTARES french-russian mission in the MIR station in July 1992, a 22 days ALTAIR mission with a french cosmonaut has been performed in July 1993, making use of the scientific payload remaining on board. Taking benefit of the analysis of the previous mission, the experimental protocols were adapted to refine scientific objectives and gave to the scientists the opportunity to enhance quantitatively and qualitatively their results. The french biomedical program, conducted in close scientific cooperation with IMBP and associated laboratories, was composed of 8 experiments out of which 2 were new with regards to the ANTARES program. In the field of cardio-vascular physiology and fluid regulation, the experiments: ORTHOSTATISME, DIURESE have been renewed and complemented by the TISSU experiment (proposed by a german scientist) and a real-time tele-assistance program using US echography technic and ground support from the french CADMOS support control center located in Toulouse. With respect to neurosciences objectives, to the experiments VIMINAL (cognitive processes) and ILLUSIONS (study of proprioceptives cues), was added the SYNERGIES experiment to analyse the postural adjustments during movement. The IMMUNOLOGIE experiment carried on and the radiobiological experiment BIODOSE ended. Adding the results of the 2 missions ANTARES and ALTAIR, and the data obtained in between onboard with russian cosmonauts, the scientists have received a wealth of physiological data and gained reproducibility and confidence in their results.
To investigate changes in spatial orientation ability and walking performance following space flight, 7 astronaut subjects were asked pre- and post-flight to perform a goal directed locomotion paradigm which consisted of walking a triangular path with and without vision. This new paradigm, involving inputs from different sensory systems, allows quantification of several critical parameters, like orientation performance, walking velocities and postural stability, in a natural walking task. The paper presented here mainly focuses on spatial orientation performance quantified by the errors in walking the previously seen path without vision. Errors in length and reaching the corners did not change significantly from pre- to post-flight, while absolute angular errors slightly increased post-flight. The significant decrease in walking velocity and a change in head-trunk coordination while walking around the corners of the path observed post-flight may suggest that during re-adaptation to gravity the mechanisms which are necessary to perform the task have to be re-accomplished.

Melatonin as a marker of circadian rhythm and the effect of bright light on melatonin were studied in 63 depressed patients, 42 with a seasonal pattern and 21 with a nonseasonal pattern. The patients were matched for age, time of treatment and severity of depression. Before light treatment, blood was sampled for melatonin and depression was clinically rated with the Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale. Two hours of light treatment, 350 cd/m2, was given daily for 10 days 0600 to 0800 or 1800 to 2000. Of the 42 patients with seasonal depression, 26 were treated with morning light and, 16 with evening light. The melatonin amplitude was significantly decreased by light, and the melatonin phase position was advanced by morning light and delayed by evening light. All patients except for 3 in each group changed in the expected direction. Although the patients with seasonal pattern had a more favorable outcome than patients with nonseasonal pattern, there was no difference in therapeutic outcome related to the baseline melatonin phase position. The hypothesis that the short term clinical effects of light therapy either in the morning or evening are related to pretreatment melatonin levels or alteration of melatonin amplitude or phase position was not supported in the study. There was also no significant difference between the seasonal and nonseasonal patients related to the degree of light suppression of melatonin and the rebound effect of serum melatonin levels following bright level exposure between 2200 and 2300 before regular light treatment.
Results of previous experiments designed to investigate the role of acetaldehyde, the primary metabolite of ethanol, have been contradictory. Experiments have provided evidence that supports and refutes the idea that acetaldehyde is responsible for the teratogenic effects observed in fetal alcohol syndrome. In the present study, cell culture techniques were used to examine the effects of acetaldehyde, both independently and in conjunction with ethanol. The purpose was to determine whether acetaldehyde had any effect on survival and process outgrowth of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons cultured in vitro. This study revealed that acetaldehyde was as toxic to DRG survival as is ethanol, but had a lesser effect on neurite outgrowth than ethanol. Also, acetaldehyde and ethanol do not act synergistically to damage neurons in culture. The results indicate that, although acetaldehyde is probably not solely responsible for ethanol neurotoxicity, it does exhibit a secondary toxicity that could be the subject of future studies.
In animal models of fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS), the hippocampus has been shown to be especially sensitive to the effects of prenatal ethanol exposure, exhibiting neuronal loss and alterations in neuritic process elaboration. We have characterized the influence of chronic prenatal ethanol treatment (CPET) on the postnatal expression of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in the hippocampus and the septal area that contains neurons that provide the primary cholinergic innervation to the hippocampus. On gestation days 1-22, pregnant rats were either fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet, pair-fed a calorically equivalent sucrose-containing diet, or given rat chow ad libitum. In Chow control animals, the ontogenetic progression of ChAT activity in the septal area and hippocampus was characterized by a significant period of upregulation during the 2nd and 3rd postnatal weeks, exhibiting and an approximate 5-fold increase (septal area) and 7-fold increase (hippocampus) by postnatal day 21 (P21). At P14, ethanol exposure reduced septal and hippocampal ChAT activity levels, compared with those of pair-fed offspring. ChAT activity reached control levels by P21 in ethanol-exposed pups, suggesting that the earlier decline in activity may reflect a delay in the ontogenetic upregulation. In addition, there was a trend toward increased septal and hippocampal ChAT activities at P1 and P7 in both liquid diet groups. This liquid diet-stimulated increase may mask the effects of ethanol on early postnatal ChAT expression in the septohippocampal system. The results suggest that prenatal ethanol exposure may influence factors that regulate the developmental expression of ChAT in the septohippocampal system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ethanol, a developmental neurotoxin, alters plasma membranes' physicochemical properties affecting embryogenesis, cell migration, differentiation, and synaptogenesis. In a previous study using a model for fetal alcohol effects, GM1 ganglioside treatment was shown to reduce ethanol-induced accumulation of endogenous GM1 and fatty acid ethyl esters in rat fetuses. The present study was initiated to define further the in utero effects of ethanol and the capacity of GM1 treatment to ameliorate such effects. Wistar dams were exposed to ethanol (intragastrically) on gestation day (GD) 7 and GD8 and GD13 and GD14. GM1 ganglioside (10 mg/kg, im) was given 24 hr before ethanol administration. Cortical cultures were derived from GD15 and GD20 fetuses. GM1, which is highly localized on the cellular plasma membrane outer surface of CNS cells, was used as a marker molecule to assess cell integrity. Cholera toxin/antitoxin/fluorescence immunohistochemistry was used to localize GM1. Results indicate that the brief in utero exposure to ethanol affected cell growth and morphology. A marked retardation of cell development and arborization was observed as early as 24 hr after plating. Ethanol-exposed cells evidenced considerably altered GM1 localization. Such alterations likely reflect losses of membrane integrity. These in utero ethanol-induced pathologies are remarkably diminished in cultures derived from ethanol-exposed fetuses of dams treated with GM1.
Allelic frequencies of apolipoprotein epsilon 4 were compared in 13 dizygotic twin pairs and 13 sibling pairs in which at least one member has Alzheimer disease (AD). Among discordant pairs of twins and siblings, frequencies were significantly greater in affected than intact partners. There was no significant difference in allelic frequencies between twins with a positive family history and twins with a negative family history. The epsilon 4 allele was more common in the sibling sample selected for family aggregation of AD than the twin sample. Several lines of evidence indicate that while the epsilon 4 allele appears to be one risk factor for AD, other etiological factors must be considered as well.
The Miller-Dieker syndrome, a disorder of neuronal migration, is caused by deletions of chromosome 17p13.3. Recently, a gene on 17p13.3, named LIS-1, was identified as the causative gene for this cerebral anomaly. Here we immunochemically and immunohistochemically localized the gene product, LIS-1 protein, among control normal subjects and patients with Miller-Dieker syndrome, using specific antibodies raised against synthetic peptide fragments of LIS-1 protein. Western blot analyses identified LIS-1 protein as a 45-kd, heparin-binding protein abundant in the cytosolic fraction. The protein was restricted to the central nervous system and detectable in brains of controls of all ages, from the early fetal to adult period. Immunostaining demonstrated the widespread distribution of LIS-1 protein in the brain and spinal cord of controls and a loss of immunoreactivity in individuals with Miller-Dieker syndrome. These results are consistent with the notion that a deficiency of LIS-1 protein is the direct cause of the brain malformation and that the protein plays a critical role in neuronal migration.
A dopamine D1 (SKF-38393, 1 mg)- or D2 (LY-171555, 0.1 mg)-receptor agonist inhibited intake of an intraorally infused solution of sucrose by male rats, a test of consummatory ingestive behavior. Treatment with a D1 (SCH-39166, 0.1 mg) or D2 (raclopride, 0.6 mg) antagonist reversed inhibition by the respective agonist but enhanced the inhibitory effect of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8; 1.8 micrograms). It was not possible to demonstrate specific effects of D1 and D2 agonists on intake of pellets, a test that does not discriminate consummatory ingestive behavior from appetitive ingestive behavior, i.e., behavior used to obtain food. The results demonstrate specific involvement of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in inhibition of consummatory ingestive behavior.
The ability to manipulate genetic information in the germ line of mice has provided powerful approaches to study gene function in vivo. These approaches have included the establishment of mouse lines in which a specified gene or genes are overexpressed, ectopically expressed, or deleted. Transgenic and gene-targeted mouse lines have been used extensively to study the function of the insulin-like growth factors (IGF), IGF-I and IGF-II, and their receptors and binding proteins. In the IGF system, these technologies have elucidated the roles of the IGFs in fetal and somatic growth and have demonstrated a critical role for this system in transformation and tumorigenesis. Analysis of combinatorial crosses of gene-targeted mouse lines also has suggested the existence of an as yet unidentified IGF receptor that regulates fetal growth. Similar approaches using transgenic and gene-targeted mouse models have been initiated to study the in vivo functions of the IGF binding proteins. These mouse models provide important tools to test specific functional questions in vivo as well as to study the long-term physiological consequences of chronic gene alterations.


Fragments of sural nerve biopsy specimens were cultured in the presence of the supernatant of lymphokine-activated killer cells, resulting in the selective outgrowth of cells with bipolar or tripolar morphology, reminiscent of that of Schwann cells. Immunofluorescent staining with antibodies to the S-100 protein, the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor, and the surface Thy-1 antigen confirmed that these cultures contained more than 99% Schwann cells and no detectable fibroblasts. The mitotic activity of Schwann cells was measured by bromodeoxyuridine labeling, and was increased when the cells were grown in medium with lymphokine-activated killer cell supernatant compared with medium without this supernatant. In the presence of lymphokine-activated killer cell supernatant, Schwann cells could be maintained in continuous culture for a minimum of 8 months.
Both genetic and environmental factors affect the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The presence of cortical Lewy bodies in AD patients is associated with an altered presentation of AD pathology suggestive of an interaction between the pathogenesis of Lewy bodies and AD lesions. Since the CYP2D6B mutant allele is often present in patients with Lewy body diseases (Parkinson's disease and Lewy body variant of AD), we extended these prior observations by studying the neuropathology associated with the presence of the CYP2D6B mutant allele in a pure AD population without Lewy bodies. AD patients who possessed the CYP2D6B mutant allele, in comparison with those without the CYP2D6B allele, were found to have a smaller decline in two synaptic markers, choline acetyltransferase and synaptophysin, in the frontal cortex relative to normal control values. On the other hand, senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles were not significantly affected by the presence of the CYP2D6B mutant allele in the frontal cortex of AD patients. Association of the CYP2D6B mutant allele with Lewy body formation in both Parkinson's disease and the Lewy body variant of AD and with the milder synaptic pathology in pure AD without Lewy bodies suggest that depending on the contribution of other genetic and environmental factors, this mutant allele may be involved with different aspects of neurodegeneration.
In this clinical study the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) level of a novel form of the beta-amyloid peptide (A beta) extending to position 42 (A beta 42) was determined in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) as well as controls. In addition to measurement of CSF A beta 42 levels, total A beta peptides, microtubule-associated protein tau, and apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotype were also assessed. It is interesting that CSF A beta 42 levels were found to be significantly lower in AD patients relative to controls, whereas total A beta levels were not. A beta 42 has recently been shown to preferentially deposit in the brain tissue of patients with AD, suggesting that diminished clearance may account for its reduction in CSF. As previously reported, tau levels were increased in AD patients; however, neither A beta 42 nor tau levels were apparently influenced by the ApoE genotype.

In the rat, after unilateral labyrinthectomy the loss of unit responses in the deafferented ipsilateral vestibular nucleus should lead to a complete postlesional asymmetry in H-OKN. The compensation process of this oculomotor deficit were recorded by means of a search coli technique using amplitude detection in 30 pigmented rats, 8 animals as control and 22 submitted to left hemilabyrinthectomy. Recording sessions were performed from day 1 to 8 after the lesion. Velocity steps of visual stimulation were delivered in clockwise (CW) and counterclockwise (CCW) directions at velocities from 2 to 40 degrees/s. The H-OKN was not observable on postlesional day 2. It reappeared asymmetrical on day 2 with depressed responses to CW stimulation while the response to the CCW stimulation were almost as large as in intact animal. This asymmetry was quantified by the gain values (eye velocity/stimulus velocity) of the nystagmic responses which were, at 5 degrees/s of stimulus velocity, 0.37 for CW stimulation and almost twice as large, 0.72 for CCW stimulation. Later this asymmetry was consistently reduced by a progressive increase of the CW responses and a parallel decrease of the CCW. This process led to the responses to reach almost symmetrical values on day 8 with a gain of 0.52 and 0.63 for CW and CCW responses respectively at the same stimulus velocity. However the gain of intact animals was never attained. The initial eye velocity was symmetrically altered on day 2 and remained unchanged until postlesional day 8. These results demonstrate that the deficit appeared to be compensated more by a restoration of a symmetry than by a restitution of a gain of responses equivalent to that of an intact animal.

Fusion of African swine fever virus (ASFV) with model membranes was monitored by a fluorescence dequenching assay. ASFV was able to fuse with liposomes of various compositions. Fusion was more extensive with liposomes made of negatively charged phospholipids, and reduced in the presence of the neutral phospholipid phosphatidylcholine (PC). Fusion activity of ASFV was pH-dependent, the extent of fusion increasing with decreasing pH for all target membranes. These results are consistent with the in vivo characteristics of fusion of ASFV with the endosome membrane. An increase in fusion activity was obtained with dehydrating agents, similarly to what occurs with other lipid-enveloped viruses. Dehydrating agents such as dimethylsulfoxide and dimethylsulfone greatly enhanced fusion, the effect of dimethylsulfone being more pronounced than that of dimethylsulfoxide. Poly(ethylene glycol) also potentiated ASFV fusion activity, and the effect of this polymer was found to be dependent on its molecular weight. These results stress the importance of dehydration and hydrophobic interactions on the early events of viral penetration into target cells.
Brain lesions have been reported with increasing frequency in the delusional misidentification syndromes (DMS). This is the first controlled study to describe DMS regional cerebral metabolic rates of glucose (rCMRglc). We compared rCMRglc (using positron emission tomography) and neuropsychological data in 9 patients with DMS and Alzheimer dementia (AD), 15 AD patients without DMS, and 17 healthy controls. The DMS group differed from the AD group without DMS in having significant hypometabolism in paralimbic (orbitofrontal and cingulate areas bilaterally) and left medial temporal areas, and significant bilateral normalized hypermetabolism in sensory association cortices (superior temporal and inferior parietal) without right left asymmetry. Compared to healthy controls, both AD groups had significant dorso lateral frontal hypometabolism bilaterally. No specific DMS neuropsychological profile was identified. Dysfunctional connections among multimodal association areas, paralimbic structures, and dorsolateral frontal cortex are proposed as the predisposing neural deficit underlying DMS, causing cognitive-perceptual-affective dissonance, which under specific conditions results in &quot;positive&quot; delusion formation.
We previously reported increased regional cerebral cortical uptake and decreased caudate nucleus uptake of 99mTc-HMPAO in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder(OCD) before treatment compared to matched normal controls. In the present study, we determined whether or not these changes persisted during treatment. Single-photon emission computed tomography was used to measure regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) by 133Xe inhalation and cerebral uptake of 99mTc-HMPAO in eight adult male OCD patients before and during treatment with chlomipramine, and in eight age-matched normal male controls. With 133Xe, there were no significant differences in rCBF between patients with OCD and their matched controls, and no significant differences in rCBF in the patients before and during treatment. Significantly increased HMPAO uptake in the orbital frontal cortex, posterofrontal cortex, and high dorsal parietal cortex bilaterally occurred in the OCD patients before treatment compared to their matched controls, and there were significant reductions of HMPAO uptake, into the normal range, in all these areas in the patients during treatment. Significantly reduced HMPAO uptake in the caudate nucleus bilaterally occurred in the patients before treatment compared to their matched controls, and these reductions persisted during treatment. This study provides additional support for the involvement of both the orbital frontal cortex and the caudate nuclei in the pathophysiology of OCD.

The post-mortem pathology in 20 spinal cords of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected patients with vacuolar myelopathy was quantified by evaluating (i) the intensity of myelin change, vacuolation and macrophage density; and (ii) the areas of white matter covered by each feature. Severity scores were constructed for (i) the anterior, lateral, and posterior white matter columns; (ii) each level of spinal cord; and (iii) the whole spinal cord [Cord Total and Cord Average Severity Scores (CTSS, CASS)]. Astroglial activation was scored separately. In 14 cords with mild-moderate vacuolar myelopathy (CASS = 23-259), macrophages were the most prominent pathological feature, and level severity scores were higher at mid-thoracic than cervical levels (P = 0.009). In six cords with severe vacuolar myelopathy (CASS = 396-614), vacuolation, demyelination and macrophages were equally evident and thoracic and cervical level severity scores were similar. The most severe lesions showed evidence of clearing of macrophages from the collapsed centres. A clinical lower limb score correlated with the anterior (P = 0.03) and lateral (P = 0.04) column total scores and with the CTSS (P = 0.04) in the nine patients who had had both myelopathy related disability and all cord levels available. There was no significant longitudinal gradient in score severity in the posterior, lateral or anterior columns and no evidence of a dying-back phenomenon. There was no evidence of Wallerian degeneration occurring as a primary process. Astroglial activation did not correlate with the severity or duration of the vacuolar myelopathy. Detection of HIV p24 antigen in the spinal cord related to the local presence of multinucleated giant cells and to antigen expression in the brain but not with the severity of vacuolar myelopathy. The pathology in vacuolar myelopathy appeared to start in the mid-low thoracic cord, with increasing rostral involvement as the disease became more severe. The relative prominence of macrophages in mild-moderate lesions suggests they may be involved early in the pathogenesis of vacuolar myelopathy.
Williams syndrome (WS) and Down syndrome (DS) are genetic disorders with characteristic neuropsychological profiles. Subjects with WS show surface similarities to subjects with right hemisphere damage (RHD) in their relative preservation of linguistic skills, their poor visuo-constructive skills, and their hierarchical processing biases. Ten adolescents and young adults with WS and nine matched subjects with DS were administered a battery of visuospatial perceptual tasks to test whether the profile of performance in WS would resemble that in RHD. It was found instead that the WS subjects showed a distinctive clustering of skills, with particular preservation of facial discrimination, but impairment of other perceptual skills. Subjects with DS showed a more homogeneous profile. The WS profile may map onto the functional dichotomy between ventral and dorsal visual pathways in the cerebral cortex.
Solid or suspension grafts of fetal spinal cord (FSC), caudal brainstem (FBSt), neocortex (FNCx) or a combination of either FSC/FNCx or FSC/FBSt were placed into cavities produced by static loading (i.e., compression) of the spinal cord of adult cats two to 30 weeks after injury. Extensively vascularized, viable graft tissue was found in all animals with the exception of two cats which showed active rejection of their transplants. Surviving grafts showed many immature characteristics 6-9 weeks after transplantation. However, by 20-30 weeks, FSC and FBSt grafts were more mature. Grafts integrated with the host gray and white matter and neuritic processes from both host and graft were seen crossing the host-graft interface. Host calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP)-like immunoreactive axons could be traced into FSC and FBSt grafts. A more restricted ingrowth of host serotonin (5-HT)-like immunoreactive fibers was seen in FSC grafts. Our results suggest that the capacity of homotypic transplants to promote recovery of function is greater than heterotypic transplants. Additionally, it appears that the functional capacity of the graft depends upon graft survival, the time interval between injury and transplantation, and whether or not the lesion cavity was debrided prior to grafting.
Gene therapy has opened new doors for treatment of neoplastic diseases. This new approach seems very attractive, especially for glioblastomas, since treatment of these brain tumors has failed using conventional therapy regimens. Many different modes of gene therapy for brain tumors have been tested in culture and in vivo. Many of these approaches are based on previously established anti-neoplastic principles, like prodrug activating enzymes, inhibition of tumor neovascularization, and enhancement of the normally weak anti-tumor immune response. Delivery of genes to tumor cells has been mediated by a number of viral and synthetic vectors. The most widely used paradigm is based on the activation of ganciclovir to a cytotoxic compound by a viral enzyme, thymidine kinase, which is expressed by tumor cells, after the gene has been introduced by a retroviral vector. This paradigm has proven to be a potent therapy with minimal side effects in several rodent brain tumor models, and has proceeded to phase 1 clinical trials. In this review, current gene therapy strategies and vector systems for treatment of brain tumors will be described and discussed in light of further developments needed to make this new treatment modality clinically efficacious.
Spatio-temporal patterns of c-fos mRNA expression were studied in the mouse brain following the partial acquisition of an appetitive conditioning task in a Skinner box. We used two experimental situations: during the initial acquisition of the task (acquisition paradigm) and during the retention test (recall paradigm). In both paradigms the in situ hybridization signal was exclusively located in the hippocampal formation and the posterior cingulate cortex. However, the time-dependent pattern of expression was quite different according to the experimental situation: mRNA levels peaked at 90 min post-test in both paradigms but returned to basal (control) level by 180 min in the acquisition group, while in CA3 and DG subfields, high levels of mRNA expression were maintained at 180 min in the recall group. Taken together these results suggest that the IEG c-fos is implicated in the different phases of post-acquisition memory processes and involve a differential spatio-temporal regulation of its expression in hippocampal subfields.
Estrogen's action in specific brain regions, particularly the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN), is necessary for the onset of maternal behavior in the pregnant female rat. There is an increase in estrogen binding in the MPN during pregnancy, and it has been hypothesized that this increase is part of the mechanism by which the brain is readied to support estrogen-dependent maternal behavior. This experiment determines whether an alteration in the levels of estrogen receptor mRNA precedes the increase in estrogen binding to its receptor. Using in situ hybridization, estrogen receptor (ER) mRNA levels were measured in specific brain regions in females on day 8, 16 or 22 of pregnancy or on postpartum day 1 or in non-pregnant females. ER mRNA levels are significantly higher in the MPN in females on day 8 of pregnancy compared with non-pregnant females or with females on day 16. In the ventromedial nucleus, which is important for estrogen's role in postpartum sexual receptivity, there was an increase in ER mRNA levels on day 22 of pregnancy compared with day 16 of pregnancy. These results suggest that ER levels may increase in specific, behaviorally relevant brain regions at critical times during pregnancy through regulation of ER mRNA levels.
[Met5]-enkephalin, encoded by the preproenkephalin (PPE) gene, serves as a growth factor during brain development in addition to its role as a neurotransmitter. This study examined the relationship of gene and peptide expression in the developing (postnatal day 6) rat brain by disrupting peptide-receptor interaction with either a brief (4-6 h) or continuous opioid receptor blockade using a single injection of 1 or 50 mg/kg naltrexone (NTX), respectively; such perturbations result in growth inhibition or acceleration, respectively. In the caudate putamen, an area that has completed neurogenesis by postnatal day 6 and has an abundance of PPE mRNA and enkephalins in adulthood, NTX did not influence PPE mRNA in either NTX group, or the enkephalin levels in the 1 mg/kg NTX group. [Met5]-enkephalin values in the neostriatum, however, were 67-183% greater than controls in rats given 50 mg/kg NTX, beginning 5 min after drug injection. In the cerebellum, PPE mRNA expression was depressed from 5 min to 4 h in the 1 mg/kg NTX group, and was normal thereafter; mRNA levels in the 50 mg/kg NTX group were markedly subnormal for 24 h. Enkephalin levels were significantly depressed within 5 min of drug injection and remained so for 4 h in the 1 mg/kg NTX group, but were elevated to approximately 135% of control values at 8, 16, and 24 h. Enkephalin levels were not changed in the cerebellum of the 50 mg/kg NTX group, or in the plasma of either NTX group. These data suggest that a single exposure to NTX can affect transcriptional and translational mechanisms related to PPE mRNA and opioid peptide expression in a rapid and sustained manner, and that this treatment elicits a specific pattern of alterations dependent upon the brain region sampled, drug dosage, and/or the duration of opioid receptor blockade. Additionally, our results indicate that the decreased DNA synthesis in external germinal cells occurring after opioid receptor blockade as recorded earlier may be related to an increase in the potent opioid growth factor, [Met5]-enkephalin.
The action of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5HT) in the nervous system is terminated by reuptake of the neurotransmitter into the presynaptic nerve terminal via a plasma membrane-bound transporter protein. Recently, cDNAs encoding serotonin transporter protein were cloned. Using in situ hybridization we have studied the expression of serotonin transporter mRNA in the bulbospinal 5HT system of adult (2-3 months) and aged (30 months) rats. In adult rats, serotonin transporter mRNA labelled neurons were detected in the nucleus raphe obscurus, pallidus and magnus. In all aged rats, the optical density of the serotonin transporter mRNA labelling of individual cell profiles was increased by 20-30% (P &lt; 0.001) when compared with adult rats. Five of the six aged rats studied had various degrees of hindlimb motor dysfunctions. In rats with the most pronounced signs of hindlimb motor dysfunction the number of labelled neurons was increased by 25-75% (P &lt; 0.01) when compared with young adult rats. It is concluded that an increased serotonin transporter gene expression is present in the bulbospinal 5HT system of aged animals.
We have analyzed the expression of a transgene bearing 2 kilobases of the 5' flanking region of the human vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) gene coupled to beta-galactosidase. Expression was assayed by beta-galactosidase histochemistry and by mRNA quantitation using polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-mediated amplification; we compared beta-galactosidase activity against both transgene and endogenous VIP mRNA levels. We found that the human 5' flanking sequence in this construct is able to direct tissue-specific expression of beta-galactosidase similar to the pattern for endogenous VIP. However, the transgene is also expressed in smooth muscle and Schwann cells, where VIP mRNA is rare. In various tissues where the transgene and endogenous gene are both active, the ratio between their message levels differs dramatically--transgene mRNA is more abundant where VIP is relatively scarce, but is much less abundant than the endogenous message at sites where VIP mRNA is most concentrated. These results suggest that sequence elements that may restrict VIP transcription or cause tissue-specific VIP mRNA accumulation are missing from the transgene. In the testis there is a high level of transgene message but no significant beta-galactosidase activity; this discrepancy is caused by transcription from a cryptic promoter within the beta-galactosidase sequence.
The low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) is a multifunctional cell surface receptor that binds to the protease inhibitor alpha 2-macroglobulin (alpha 2 M). LRP has also been identified as the apolipoprotein E (apoE) receptor that mediates lipid metabolism. Recently it has been reported that apoE4, one of three common isoforms of apoE, is a main risk factor of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Moreover, all three of these proteins are reported to accumulate in the senile plaques in the brains of Alzheimer's patients. To understand the roles of LRP in the normal development of the central nervous system (CNS) and in the pathogenesis of AD, we studied the developmental expression and localization of LRP mRNA in the CNS. We used Northern blot analysis to investigate the developmental profile of LRP mRNA in the rat brain. LRP mRNA was first detected as early as in 18-day-old embryonic rat brain and was continuously expressed thereafter. A particularly high level of expression of the mRNA was observed in the perinatal stage. We also determined the cellular distribution of LRP mRNA in the CNS of 20-day-old embryonic and 6-week-old adult rat brains by in situ hybridization using a digoxigenin-labeled antisense riboprobe to LRP mRNA. In the embryonic rat brain, LRP mRNA was highly expressed in most of the cells, mainly neurons and glial cells. In the adult rat, LRP mRNA was expressed mostly in neurons in both the brain and the spinal cord. These results suggest that LRP plays crucial roles in development of the brain.
Using electrophoretic mobility-shift assay (EMSA), we examined changes in DNA-binding activities of transcriptional factor-activated protein-1 (AP-1), which is a Fos-Jun protein complex, onto its responsive element TRE in the hippocampus and amygdaloid nucleus of rats stimulated with pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) injection, and also investigated the effects of a single administration of the immunosuppressant cyclosporin A (CsA). In EMSA with nuclear extracts from the rat brain, the TRE-binding activity of AP-1 in the hippocampus and amygdaloid nucleus markedly increased 2 h after the PTZ injection (75 mg/kg, i.p.). These PTZ-induced increases of the TRE-binding protein in these regions were completely suppressed, by pretreatment with CsA (5 mg/kg, s.c.) 1 h before the PTZ injection. In addition, the administration of CsA significantly ameliorated PTZ-induced convulsion. This therapeutic effect of single CsA pretreatment may be based, in part, on the effects on the TRE-binding activity of AP-1 in the brain. Since single pretreatment of CsA in the present study had no effect on the PTZ-induced induction of c-fos mRNA, c-jun mRNA, Fos protein nor Jun protein, the inhibitory effects of single CsA administration on PTZ-induced TRE-binding activity in the brain may be related to the effects of CsA on AP-1 itself. These results suggest that an immune response via activation of transcriptional factor in the brain tissue is involved in the convulsion.
There is much debate on the mechanism by which blood-borne pyrogens trigger prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) synthesis in brain and fever. This investigation was undertaken to determine whether nitric oxide qualifies as a signal transducer for pyrogens at the interface between blood and brain. Experiments were carried out in vitro and in vivo using, respectively, preparations of cerebral tissue and microvessels from the rat, and the conscious, chronically instrumented cat. In vitro preparations produced PGE2 and its production increased during a 30-min treatment with interleukin 1 (brain tissue) or endotoxin (microvessels). In addition, both pyrogens increased cyclic GMP levels in cerebral microvessels. In both brain tissue and microvessels, NG-nitro-L-arginine had no effect on basal PGE2 release, while it curtailed the pyrogen-stimulated release. The same treatment reduced the cyclic GMP accumulation brought about by pyrogens in the microvessels. Conversely, in the conscious cat, inhibitors of nitric oxide synthesis (NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, NG-nitro-L-arginine) had no effect on fever and the concomitant elevation of PGE2 in cerebrospinal fluid, regardless of the pyrogen used (endotoxin, interleukin 1) and the route of administration (intravenous, intracerebroventricular). We conclude that nitric oxide may serve as a pyrogen mediator in brain. This mediator function, however, is seemingly not important in the development of fever.

Migraine, being disabling and common, is a costly illness. The bearers of the cost are a broader band of society than the sufferers from the disease, and the elements of the cost are not only monetary. Treatment of migraine has the potential for reducing this cost but carries a cost of its own. In the balance between these, those who pay are not necessarily the same as those who gain. Various forms of analysis are employed in relating illness costs at individual and societal levels with those of measures intended to contain them. Questions that arise are whether costs are saved overall by treatment, and which of different treatment options give greater savings. In the absence of much data, there is heavy dependence on assumptions in attempts to answer these questions. A full analysis should take into account the extent to which the availability of new and very effective treatments might alter demand and clinical practice, and also the impacts of ineffective use and inappropriate use of treatments.
Reports of sensitivity to striped patterns and to flickering lights are not uncommon in migraineurs. Only recently, however, have objective methods been used to assess the visual sensitivity of these patients, with emphasis on their responses to spatial stimuli; responses to temporal information have been largely neglected on an experimental level. The &quot;critical flicker fusion&quot; (CFF) test was performed by 25 migraineurs with aura, 25 migraineurs without aura, and 25 control subjects. The CFF test is a quick, simple technique which provides information concerning the temporal responsiveness of the visual system; a sensitivity threshold is measured. A significant group difference between the migraineurs without aura and the control subjects emerged (p = 0.01). Control subjects had the highest CFF threshold, migraineurs with aura the next highest, and migraineurs without aura the lowest threshold.
Unstable transmission of repeating segments in genes is now recognized as a new class of mutations causing human disease. Genetic instability observed in disease is termed an &quot;expansion mutation&quot; when the mutation is an increase in the copy number of a repeated unit, commonly a di- or trinucleotide. While the expansion mutation is well characterized in disease, the mechanism by which expansion occurs is not clear. This article focuses on physical properties of expansion at repeating nucleotides that may provide clues to the mechanism. Both biochemical and genetic data indicate that DNA structure is part of the mechanism and the underlying cause for expansion.
The basement membrane at the neuromuscular junction directs formation of pre- and postsynaptic elements at this synapse. Efforts to understand the molecular basis for development of the postsynaptic specialization have brought new insights into extracellular matrix proteins and their cell-surface receptors. Recent evidence for an agrin receptor and mice null for the s-laminin gene have reinforced the function of the basement membrane in both orthograde and retrograde signalling across the synapse.
The fact that multiple microtubule-based motors exist in brain inevitably raises questions about their function. Transcripts for at least seven kinesin superfamily genes and even more dynein heavy chain genes have been detected in brain cDNA libraries. The challenge now is to match their gene products to specific functions in cells of the nervous system. Recent studies have attempted to establish a function for each microtubule motor by using recombinant protein and immunochemical approaches.
Considerable advances in the understanding of congenital muscular dystrophy made during the past year may allow a new clinical classification of this disease. In particular, (1) evidence has accumulated to suggest that a laminin alpha2-chain (alpha2 subunit of laminin-2 or merosin) deficiency causes a type of congenital muscular dystrophy, and (2) it has been postulated that Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy and Walker-Warburg syndrome (but not Finnish muscle-eye-brain disease) are genetically identical diseases.
The possible role of growth factors in diabetic neuropathy is under investigation and offers new insights into the effect of diabetes on nerve function. The search continues to identify the pathogenic mechanisms involved, many of which will be interlinked.
Attempts to increase the diagnostic yield and reproducibility of electrophysiological investigation of peripheral nerve disorders have led to the development of new techniques, such as measurement of nerve refractoriness, as well as the re-evaluation, refinement and modification of more conventional nerve conduction tests. Other studies have characterized the clinical and electrophysiological features of the subtypes of polyneuropathies associated with monoclonal gammopathies and have documented their natural history, providing important diagnostic and prognostic information. Techniques originating in basic neuroscience that study the excitability of neurons and nerve membranes have been applied to clinical conditions, such as motor neuron disease and cramps, and have provided considerable insight into their pathogenesis.
The authors have proposed specific revisions to current International Headache Society (IHS) criteria for the diagnosis of headache. They include: (1) the use of the terms 'clinically definite' and 'clinically probable' to preface the diagnosis of a particular headache disorder to distinguish between situations in which (a) all criteria for the disorder are fulfilled and (b) one or two criteria are not fulfilled; (2) a slight revision to the criteria for the diagnosis of migraine with aura; (3) acceptance by the IHS of a category 'co-existing migraine and tension-type headache'; (4) consistency in the use of terms and elimination of ambiguous phrases; and (5) the omission of rule 7. The authors trust that these suggestions will help make the recommendations of the IHS more applicable to paediatric practice.
We have demonstrated previously that the polysialic acid (PSA) moiety of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) can regulate peripheral nerve branching during development. In particular, it was found that specific enzymatic removal of PSA from motor axons causes them to form tight fascicles that are less responsive to normal guidance cues. In the present study, the role of PSA in the behavior of axons in the central nervous system has been examined through an analysis of chick optic axons during development. Unlike peripheral axons, which generally grow in a PSA-free environment, PSA was found to be present both on retinal ganglion cell axons and their environment in the tract and tectum. Furthermore, the enzymatic removal of PSA from the optic axons caused them to defasciculate in the tract/tectal region. This response was morphologically similar to targeting corrections made by these axons at a later stage when PSA levels have decreased, suggesting that the PSA may serve to shield them from responding prematurely to some guidance cues in their target region.

Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is an electrotherapeutic modality used for analgesia. We planned to demonstrate selective stimulation of large diameter fibers with conventional type TENS by way of somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP). We have analyzed index finger-wrist segment median nerve sensory potential and SEP recordings obtained from C2 and Cc before TENS and at 5, 10 and 15 minutes of TENS application of 14 adult healthy volunteers. SEP and finger-wrist segment sensory nerve conduction amplitudes were significantly decreased compared to pre-TENS values during 5, 10, and 15 minutes of TENS application (p &lt; 0.05). These results reflect the selective stimulation of large diameter afferent fibers of conventional type TENS.
In order to evaluate the clinical and prognostic role of common neurophysiological parameters, we examined 114 patients selected from a population of 2500 diabetics, observed in the period 1973-1986. The follow-up lasted 9 to 16 years (mean = 10). For prognostic purposes the patients were divided into 3 groups according to the motor conduction velocity (MCV) of the peroneal nerve: A) 47 cases with normal MCV (more than 44 m/s); B) 38 cases with mild neuropathy (MCV between 44 and 39 m/s); C) 29 cases with severe neuropathy (MCV less than 39 m/s). The natural history was evaluated on the basis of the following parameters: neurological symptom score (NSS), neurological disability score (NDS), patient's self-evaluation (PE) and neurologist's evaluation (ME). At the initial examination, there was a significant correlation between MCV and NDS/ME. At the final examination, MCV was reduced to groups A and B, unchanged in group C. NSS, NDS, PE and ME were worsened, but a significant correlation was found only between MCV and NDS: neuropathic groups (B and C) showed a more severe evolution than the normal group (A). In conclusion, a) MCV is progressively reduced as diabetes evolves, but--once it has reached a plateau--it stabilizes; b) MCV only has a prognostic value when it is considered together with clinical neurological signs.
In order to assess the possibility that endotoxin-induced activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is mediated by vagal afferents, we studied the effects of transection of the vagal nerves on endotoxin-induced Fos expression in hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons and plasma ACTH and corticosterone responses. Groups of rats were subjected to sham surgery, complete subdiaphragmatic vagotomy (SVGX), or selective transection of the hepatic branch (HVGX). Two weeks after surgery, endotoxin or saline was injected i.p. and rats were sacrificed by decapitation two hours later. SVGX blocked or attenuated the ACTH response to 20 and 250 micrograms/kg endotoxin, respectively. HVGX did not suppress the ACTH response to either endotoxin dose. In addition, corticosterone responses were not affected by SVGX or HVGX. The endotoxin-induced Fos expression in CRH neurons was suppressed in SVGX, but not in HVGX animals. These observations lead us to postulate that the CRH and ACTH responses to a low dose of endotoxin are mediated by vagal afferents. The responses to a high dose of endotoxin involve additional neuronal or humoral pathways.
An emerging body of evidence suggests that neurotrophins not only promote neuronal survival and differentiation, but can also target nonneuronal cells for their actions. Neurotrophins initiate their biological effects by binding to cell membrane tyrosine kinase receptors of the trk protooncogene family. In addition, all neurotrophins recognize with similar affinity a different receptor molecule known as p75 nerve growth factor receptor (p75 NGFR) or low affinity NGFR, which appears to interact with the trk receptors to potentiate their response to neurotrophins. The mature mammalian ovary has been shown to synthesize several neurotrophins, including nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotrophin 3 (NT-3), and neurotrophin 4/5 (NT-4/5). The ovary also expresses some of the neurotrophin receptors, including p75 NGFR, trkB [the receptor for NT-4/5 and brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF)], and trkA (the NGF receptor). The present experiments were undertaken to determine whether neurotrophins and their receptors are expressed at the time of definitive ovarian histogenesis, and whether any of them exhibit a developmental pattern of expression related to the completion of folliculogenesis. Immunohistochemical identification of p75 NGFR in rat embryonic ovaries revealed that the receptor is predominantly expressed in mesenchymal cells. By gestational day 18, these cells have formed pockets that enclose presumptive pregranulosa cells and groups of oocytes into ovigerous cords. Immediately after birth, the ovigerous cords are subdivided, resulting in the abrupt formation of primordial follicles between 24-48 h after birth. Consistent with these observations, the p75 NGFR messenger RNA (mRNA) content increased after birth and remained elevated at the time of follicular assembly. The NGF and trkA genes showed a different pattern of expression, as the ovarian content of both NGF and trkA mRNA decreased at the time of folliculogenesis. In contrast to the drop in NGF and trkA mRNA expression, NT-4 mRNA levels increased at the time of follicular assembly, coinciding with the abrupt appearance of trkB mRNA. In situ hybridization showed that the increase in NT-4 mRNA expression occurred in a subpopulation of oocytes between 24-48 h after birth, and that the trkB gene became predominantly expressed at this time in epithelial pregranulosa cells. Substantial, but unchanging, levels of NT-3 mRNA and the mRNA encoding trkC, the preferred NT-3 receptor, were detected throughout the perinatal period examined. Very low and invariable levels of BDNF were also detected.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The Zucker rat is an animal model of autosomal recessive obesity characterized by excessive hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and parasympathetic activities and deficient sympathetic outflow. Alterations in norepinephrine (NE) release, reuptake, and metabolism in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) could also contribute to dysregulation of the HPA axis in obese Zucker rats via effects on corticotropin-releasing hormone neurons or could be secondary to some other primary defect. The present study assessed whether the obese phenotype defect. The present study assessed whether the obese phenotype (fa/fa) compared to the lean phenotype (Fa/?) of this strain was also associated with alterations in basal and immobilization (IMMO) stress-induced noradrenergic activation in the PVN, using in vivo microdialysis. To evaluate concurrent activity of the peripheral sympathetic nervous system and the HPA axis, we also measured plasma concentrations of catecholamines, ACTH, and corticosterone. IMMO-induced increases in PVN NE levels were significantly lower in obese Zucker rats, as were elevations in plasma concentrations of dihydroxyphenylglycol and epinephrine. Basal and IMMO-stimulated plasma ACTH concentrations were similar in obese and lean rats. Basal plasma corticosterone concentrations were also similar in obese and lean rats; however, IMMO-stimulated corticosterone levels were significantly greater in obese than in lean animals. Basal plasma free corticosterone levels, measured by ultrafiltration, were significantly higher in obese than in lean rats, confirming the state of chronic hypercorticosteronism in these animals. These findings indicate that obese Zucker rats have diminished central noradrenergic and peripheral sympathetic nervous system responses to IMMO stress along with a chronically hyperactive HPA axis. We suggest that defective regulation of PVN NE reflects and contributes to the development and/or maintenance of obesity in Zucker rats via central hypoactivity of the sympathetic system. The hypercorticosteronism of these animals, apparently sustained by some nonadrenergic stimulatory input, might participate in the suppression of the sympathetic system.
The cytotoxic effects of glutamate via the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor have been suggested to take part in the events leading to death of motoneurons after neonatal axotomy. By the use of in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry we have investigated motoneuron mRNA expression of the NMDA receptor subunits NR1, NR2B and NR2D and of the NR1 subunit protein in two lesion models leading to partial motoneuron death: sciatic nerve transection early postnatally in the rat and ventral root avulsion in the adult rat. The results were compared with a lesion model with no subsequent death of motoneurons, i.e. sciatic nerve transection in the adult rat. All lesions were followed by down-regulation of the mRNAs for all studied subunits in severed motoneuron populations; down-regulation was detectable already at early stages postoperatively before any significant death had taken place. The strongest down-regulation was in fact seen in the lesion with the largest loss of motoneurons (ventral root avulsion). The reduction in the expression of NR1 mRNA was paralleled by a decrease in NR1 subunit protein. We conclude that down-regulation of NMDA receptor subunit expression is part of the acute response to axonal injury in motoneurons, whether or not neuronal death follows, and that the susceptibility of lesioned motoneurons to excitotoxic effects should be highest early after axonal injury.
Intracortical injection of iron ions has been used as a model of posttraumatic epilepsy. Oxidation of lipids in neural membranes by reactive oxygen species, especially hydroxyl radicals (OH), is involved in the mechanisms responsible for iron-induced seizures. We examined the scavenging effects of adenosine (Ado) and 2-chloroadenosine (Cl-Ado) on OH radicals and superoxide (O2.-) using an electron spin resonance (ESR) spectrometer, and the occurrence of epileptic discharges in electrocorticogram (ECoG) induced by FeCl3 injection into the sensorimotor cortex of rats. Though DMPO-O2.- spin adducts generated by the hypoxanthine-xanthine oxidase system were not quenched by Ado or Cl-Ado, 5 mM of each showed a quenching effect on DMPO-OH spin adducts (5.3 x 10(16) spins/ml) generated by the Fenton reagent. In ECoG of rats, spike discharges appeared 15-45 min after FeCl3 injection (500 nmol) into the sensorimotor cortex, and polyspikes and/or ictal patterns were observed 70-90 min after the injection. Cl-Ado (1 mg/kg) or Ado (5 mg/kg) injected intraperitoneally 30 min prior to the FeCl3 injection suppressed or delayed the occurrence of epileptic discharges induced by FeCl3. Cl-Ado and Ado may suppress the occurrence of epileptic discharges by scavenging OH and by their anticonvulsant effect.

From 1979 to 1985 2435 patients having had transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs) or minor ischaemic strokes, were enrolled in the UK TIA trial and were randomised to receive either aspirin 300 mg, daily or aspirin 1200 mg or placebo. Analysis of reported upper gastrointestinal bleeding events (defined as haematemesis or melaena, or both) showed a risk of bleeding in a dose dependent manner, odds ratios (95% CI) for 300 mg of aspirin = 3.3 (1.2 to 9.0) and for 1200 mg = 6.4 (2.5 to 16.5) and, as would be expected, an increased risk of hospitalisation because of bleeding also in a dose dependent manner, odds ratio = 3.6 (0.7 to 17.2) for 300 mg and 8.7 (2.0 to 37.6) for 1200 mg. Further analysis suggested greater risks of bleeding from duodenal ulcers than gastric ulcers and that bleeding is more likely early in the course of treatment with aspirin used as secondary prevention. There was also an increased risk of lower gastrointestinal bleeding, defined as fresh blood per rectum for both doses of aspirin, odds ratio 1.8 (0.5 to 6.1) for 300 mg of aspirin, and 1.5 (0.4 to 5.3) for 1200 mg of aspirin.
In health care, as in any service business, monitoring quality is an important component. Patient satisfaction, despite its measurement difficulties, is an excellent gauge of the institution's ability to delivery quality service. As part of quality improvement activities, the Division of Neurosciences at the Toronto Hospital measured patient satisfaction on various validated dimensions, then attempted to identify which components of service provision were key in determining patients' overall levels of perceived satisfaction with care. Results indicated that much of perceived quality and satisfaction was explained by the dimension of care which included prompt response to needs, organization, efficiency of care and communication. The authors recommend focusing improvement efforts on activities with the greatest potential to influence patient satisfaction.

The psychiatric patient care facilities and services of fifty seven general hospitals attached to medical colleges in India were studied based on data pertaining to 1988. The average bed strength was 25 beds while the average length of stay was 21 days. Functional psychotics formed 62% of the discharged patients. On the average, 2914 new psychiatric outpatients were registered per hospital and follow up attendance was 3.2 times more than the number of new cases. The implications of these findings and the method of obtaining average length of stay are discussed.

A review on current studies of chicken neurotrophins and their receptors is given. Chicken NGF, BDNF and NT-3 have been cloned and sequences have been used to synthesize oligonucleotides for specific localization of expression during development. Also, chicken TrkA, TrkB and TrkC have been cloned, sequenced and studied by in situ hybridization. Recombinant NT-3 was applied to chicken ganglia at different developmental stages to examine acquirement of responsiveness to NT-3 compared to NGF. Phylogenetic analyses of the chicken neurotrophins and Trk receptors were carried out based on parsimony. Finally, some data on apoptosis in chicken embryo sympathetic ganglia are presented.

This study examined the relationship between subjective memory complaints and performance on tests of memory by relatives of patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and by older adults without a family history of dementia. Relatives of AD patients did not differ significantly from controls either in level of complaint or in performance on neuropsychological tests. However, among relatives of patients with early-onset AD, significant correlations were found between performance on memory tests and self-rated changes in everyday memory. These findings raise the possibility that relatives who have entered the age range in which their parents or siblings developed dementia symptoms are monitoring their memory performance more diligently than relatives of patients whose illness began at much later ages or persons who have no close relatives with AD.

Knowledge of variations in the morphology of normal myelinated peripheral nerve fibres is fundamental to subsequent interpretation of neuropathology. It would be advantageous for structural analysis of normal variations to be based on entire myelin internodes, but acquisition of such data via the classic approach of nerve fibre teasing has been hindered by limitations in optical resolution and specimen preparation. This study addressed these limitations through a new confocal imaging method which permits detailed visualisation of individual myelinated fibres in intact peripheral nerve trunks, and quantitated previously unrecognised patterns of morphological variation within normal internodes. The study focused particularly on Schmidt-Lanterman incisures, the narrow cytoplasmic channels which traverse normal compact myelin and provide foci for disruption of the compact sheath in a number of peripheral neuropathies. Analysis was based on confocal fluorescence images of multiple sequential internodes, traced within posterior tibial nerve trunks of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. The strength of relationships between internodal size variables (length, fibre diameter, myelin sheath thickness) and total number of incisures per internode were documented. Each internode was divided into 4 regions of equivalent length (regions 1-4), and variations in the distribution of incisures and Schwann cell nuclear location were evaluated. Regional variations were consistent, irrespective of differences in fibre diameter, myelin sheath thickness, and internodal length. Expressed in terms of proximodistal orientation, there was a unimodal distribution of incisures within internodes of this fibre population (diameter range 5-9 microns), with region 3 containing the highest number of incisures and region 4 the lowest (P &lt; 0.05). The Schwann cell nucleus was located more frequently in region 3 than in region 2 (P &lt; 0.01). Contrary to previous reports, an incisure was found in close association with the nucleus in at least 50% of internodes. Documentation of frequent incisure-nuclear association and consistent patterns of variation within internodes extends knowledge of the microanatomy of normal peripheral nerve, and may provide insight into the functional role of incisures. Demonstration of such patterns in normal nerve may contribute to the understanding of pathological change, for example progression of ovoid formation from midinternodal regions during wallerian degeneration.
Neuronal regeneration does generally not occur in the central nervous system (CNS) after injury, which has been attributed to the generation of glial scar tissue. In this report we show that the composition of the glial scar after traumatic CNS injury in rat and mouse is more complex than previously assumed: expression of the intermediate filament nestin is induced in reactive astrocytes. Nestin induction occurs within 48 hours in the spinal cord both at the site of lesion and in degenerating tracts and lasts for at least 13 months. Nestin expression is induced with similar kinetics in the crushed optic nerve. In addition to the expression in reactive astrocytes, we also observed nestin induction within 48 hours after injury in cells close to the central canal in the spinal cord, while nestin expressing cells at later timepoints were found progressively further out from the central canal. This dynamic pattern of nestin induction after injury was mimicked by lacZ expressing cells in nestin promoter/lacZ transgenic mice, suggesting that defined nestin regulatory regions mediate the injury response. We discuss the possibility that the spatiotemporal pattern of nestin expression reflects a population of nestin positive cells, which proliferates and migrates from a region close to the central canal to the site of lesion in response to injury.
Previous immunocytochemical studies in rats have indicated that striatal dopamine depletion leads to an increase in enkephalin-immunoreactivity and a decrease in substance P-immunoreactivity in the striatum. Similar studies in primates have lead to contradictory results. In the present study changes in tyrosine hydroxylase-, met-enkephalin- and substance P-immunoreactivity were determined in the basal ganglia of 6 common marmosets Callithrix jacchus following dopamine depletion by unilateral intracerebral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) injections using three different survival times. The non-lesioned side served as an intra-individual control. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was strongly reduced in the entire ipsilateral striatum. Enkephalin-immunoreactivity was increased throughout the striatum. Substance P-immunoreactivity was significantly increased in only one case in the caudate nucleus and in two cases in the putamen, while in other cases either a non-significant increase or decrease was found. Therefore, the results of the present study indicate that in marmosets dopamine has a inhibiting effect on the levels of striatal enkephalin, while its effect on substance P (SP) appears to be absent.
Norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (E) are metabolized extraneuronally by catechol-O-methyl-transferase to the metanephrines (MNs), normetanephrine (NMN) and metanephrine (MN). Subjects in this study received infusions of tritium-labeled NE and E. Concentrations of MNs and catecholamines were measured in plasma flowing into and out of the heart, forearm, lungs, kidneys, mesenteric organs (gastrointestinal tract, spleen, and pancreas), liver, and adrenals to examine the regional production of MNs from circulating and locally released catecholamines. NE spillover from mesenteric organs and kidneys accounted for 64% of the spillover from all tissues. There was detectable spillover of E from most extraadrenal tissues, but 91% was from the adrenals. The production of MNs from locally released and circulating catecholamines varied widely among tissues. The liver made the largest contribution to removal of circulating NE (57%) and E (32%) and the largest contribution to the production of NMN (54%) and MN (37%) from metabolism of circulating catecholamines. In all other tissues more NMN was produced from locally released than from circulating NE. Thus, the metabolism of circulating NE was responsible for only 19% of the total production of NMN. An even smaller portion (6%) of plasma MN was derived from metabolism of circulating E. Most plasma MN (91%) was produced within the adrenals, which also provided the largest single source (23%) of NMN. The regional variation in extraneuronal production of MNs indicates considerable heterogeneity in how circulating and locally released catecholamines are handled by different tissues. The substantial contribution of the adrenals to the production of MNs explains the extraordinary sensitivity of these metabolites for the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.
Anti-Yo is an anti-Purkiney cell cytoplasmic antibody found in approximately 50% of patients with parancoplastic cerebellar degeneration (PCD). We report three patients with anti-Yo positive PCD (one ovarian carcinoma and two poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas consistent with breast origin). Two were treated with chemotherapy and plasmapheresis but died within months of the diagnosis from progressive neurological disease. The other was given gamma-globulin and has remained table at 6 months follow up. Anti-Yo antibodies are highly specific with almost all patients having breast or gynaecological malignanies. Commonly the tumour is of small volume and asymptomatic. Attempts at treatment are usually unsuccessful but there are a number of reports of stabilisation or improvement when treatment is begun before the development of severe neurological disability. The detection of anti-Yo antibodies is very useful for the diagnosis of PCD allowing early tumour detection and prompt institution of treatment.

A novel organ culture system has been developed to study the regulation of statoconia production in the gravity sensing organ in Aplysia californica. Statocysts were cultured in Leibovitz (L15) medium supplemented with salts and Aplysia haemolymph for four days at 17 degrees C. The viability of the system was evaluated by examining four parameters: statocyst morphology, the activity of the mechanosensory cilia in the statocyst, production of new statoconia during culture and change in statoconia volume after culture. There were no morphological differences in statocysts before and after culture when ciliary beating was maintained. There was a 29% increase in the number of statoconia after four days in culture. Mean statocyst, statolith and statoconia volumes were not affected by culture conditions. The presence of carbonic anhydrase in the statocysts was shown using immunohistochemistry. When statocysts were cultured in the presence of 4.0 x 10(-4) M acetazolamide to inhibit the enzyme activity, there was a decrease in statoconia production and statoconia volume, indicating a role for this enzyme in statoconia homeostasis, potentially via pH regulation. These studies are the first to report a novel system for the culture of statocysts and show that carbonic anhydrase is involved in the regulation of statoconia volume and production.
Morphological methods were used to examine injury-induced growth of peripheral and central axons of nociceptive mechanosensory neurones in the ventrocaudal (VC) clusters of the pleural ganglia of Aplysia californica. Pedal nerve crush transected all axons in the nerve while leaving the overlying sheath largely intact. Immunohistochemical staining was performed with an antibody to a sensory-neurone-specific peptide, sensorin-A. Following bilateral crush of pedal nerve p9, which innervates the tail, sensorin-A immunofluorescence was lost distal to the crush site within 2 days. Fine immunopositive fibres began to invade the crush region within 5 days. These fibres arborized in the crush region and gradually extended down the crushed nerve. Immunopositive fibres were found near the tail within 3 weeks. Similar results were obtained after injecting individual sensory neurone somata in the tail/p9 region of the VC cluster with biocytin. Biocytin injections and horseradish peroxidase injections 3 weeks after ipsilateral pedal nerve crush revealed new fibres projecting rostrally from the tail/p9 region of the VC cluster and entering the pleural-cerebral and pleural-abdominal connectives. Such projections were never observed in control, uncrushed preparations. These results demonstrate that nerve injury triggers extensive growth of both peripheral and central processes of the VC sensory neurones.
Clonal T cells undergo programmed cell death (PCD) or apoptosis when cultured without the appropriate cytokines. The cysteine protease, IL-1 beta converting enzyme (ICE), is implicated in apoptosis based on its structural similarity to the PCD gene, ced-3, in Caenorhabditis elegans and the induction of PCD in fibroblasts transfected with recombinant ICE. We show that the murine IL-2-dependent CTLL T cell line expresses ICE but not IL-1 beta. Interestingly, ICE mRNA and protein levels increase during apoptosis. Yet inhibition of ICE enzymatic activity (&gt; 90%) with either of two cell-permeable ICE inhibitors does not abrogate or delay apoptosis following IL-2 deprivation, as measured by DNA fragmentation and viability. Our results suggest that ICE is not required for apoptosis in lymphokine-deprived T cells.
The aim of this study was to determine the terminal products of processing of the N-terminal part of proopiomelanocortin (POMC) in pituitary melanotrope cells of Xenopus laevis. Biosynthetic in vitro labelling studies showed that POMC is rapidly processed to form N-terminal peptides with an estimated molecular mass of 18 kDa, 9 kDa and 4 kDa. All peptides were released into the medium, indicating that they are processing end products. An antiserum was raised against the synthetic N-terminal eight amino acids of the putative Xenopus gamma-MSH which is present in the N-terminal part of POMC. With immunocytochemistry we demonstrated that gamma-MSH-immunoreactive material in the pituitary gland is restricted to the pars intermedia. A radioimmunoassay in combination with reversed-phase HPLC revealed the presence of at least two gamma-MSH-like peptides. Complete purification followed by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry and amino acid sequence determination showed that these peptides are gamma 1-MSH and glycosylated gamma 3-MSH. The amounts of these gamma-MSH peptides were low compared to the other POMC-derived peptides, alpha-MSH and beta-endorphin. Only 10% of POMC is processed into gamma-MSH peptides and the 4 kDa peptide, leaving the 18 kDa and 9 kDa peptides as the major end products.
Trauma is a frequent cause for abducens (sixth) nerve paresis in a child, usually attributed to injury along the nerve's course. An unusual focal lesion of the sixth nerve nucleus is described.
Patients with transient ischemic attacks are increasingly studied with magnetic resonance angiography, allowing noninvasive evaluation of both the intracranial and the extracranial vessels. Described here are 3 patients who after endarterectomies presented with transient ischemic attacks and in whom magnetic resonance angiography with a two-dimensional time-of-flight pulse sequence showed a false-positive arterial stenosis, as documented by transfemoral carotid angiography. The pseudostenosis was believed to be artifactually caused by operative clips. Results of magnetic resonance angiography should be interpreted with caution in patients with previous neck surgery.
Clinical observations and animal studies suggest that the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis plays a role in the susceptibility to and the recovery from multiple sclerosis (MS). Since the HPA-axis is under the control of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons of the hypothalamus, we determined 2 parameters for activation of the CRH neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) in MS patients. Since the HPA-axis is more activated in MS, we expected an increased activity of CRH neurons. We also expected to see an age-related increase in CRH activity, because of the possible role of the HPA-axis in the age-related decrease in susceptibility to MS. The number of CRH cell profiles and the proportion of CRH neurons co-expressing vasopressin were used as parameters for activity. CRH cell population became more activated both in control and MS patients, from 40 years of age onwards, when the prevalence of MS starts to decrease in the population. The CRH neurons showed a significantly higher level of activation in MS patients than in controls, as appeared from the 3-fold increase in CRH cell number and the 4.5-fold increase in cells co-expressing CRH and vasopressin (AVP).
An epidemic of bilateral optic neuropathy and painful sensory neuropathy occurred in Cuba in 1991-1993. Over 45,000 individuals were stated to have been affected. We report a clinical study on 25 patients seen in Cuba in 1993-1994. Affected patients showed either bilateral optic neuropathy with caecocentral scotomata or a distal predominantly sensory neuropathy sometimes associated with deafness, or a combination of both optic and peripheral sensory neuropathy. The nature of the epidemic is discussed. The clinical features in patients with confirmed neurological deficits were consistent with a diagnosis of Strachan's syndrome, probably related to nutritional deficiency. Other patients with similar symptoms showed no evidence either of optic or peripheral neuropathy and were considered to represent disease mimicry on a psychoneurotic basis.

1. Many dendrites of pyramidal cells in mature neocortex express active Na+ and Ca2+ conductances. Dendrites are also the target of numerous inhibitory synapses. We examined the interactions between the intrinsic excitability of dendrites and synaptic inhibition using whole cell recordings from the apical dendrites of layer 5 pyramidal cells. Experiments were performed on slices of somatosensory cortex from mature rats. Slices were bathed in the glutamate receptor antagonists 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, and maintained at 32-36 degrees C. 2. In agreement with previous findings, intradendritic current injection evoked two distinct types of dendritic firing. Type I dendrites generated monophasic fast spikes, whereas type II dendrites showed more complex firing patterns, consisting of fast and slow spike components. 3. Stimulation of cortical layers 2/3 evoked fast inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in all dendrites tested. IPSP reversal potentials were bimodally distributed, with means of about -53 and -85 mV when recorded with high-Cl(-)-concentration-filled electrodes. Interestingly, IPSP reversal potentials were correlated with the type of dendritic spiking pattern. 4. IPSPs were able to delay, completely block, or partially block spiking in dendrites, depending on the relative timing between inhibition and dendritic spiking. Slow, Ca(2+)-dependent spike components could be blocked selectively by IPSPs. Furthermore, inhibition could either phase advance or phase delay repetitive patterns of dendritic spiking, depending on the timing of the IPSP.
1. Reaching movements made in a rotating room generate Coriolis forces that are directly proportional to the cross product of the room's angular velocity and the arm's linear velocity. Such Coriolis forces are inertial forces not involving mechanical contact with the arm. 2. We measured the trajectories of arm movements made in darkness to a visual target that was extinguished at the onset of each reach. Prerotation subjects pointed with both the right and left arms in alternating sets of eight movements. During rotation at 10 rpm, the subjects reached only with the right arm. Postrotation, the subjects pointed with the left and right arms, starting with the left, in alternating sets of eight movements. 3. The initial perrotary reaching movements of the right arm were highly deviated both in movement path and endpoint relative to the prerotation reaches of the right arm. With additional movements, subjects rapidly regained straight movement paths and accurate endpoints despite the absence of visual or tactile feedback about reaching accuracy. The initial postrotation reaches of the left arm followed straight paths to the wrong endpoint. The initial postrotation reaches of the right arm had paths with mirror image curvature to the initial perrotation reaches of the right arm but went to the correct endpoint. 4. These observations are inconsistent with current equilibrium point models of movement control. Such theories predict accurate reaches under our experimental conditions. Our observations further show independent implementation of movement and posture, as evidenced by transfer of endpoint adaptation to the nonexposed arm without transfer of path adaptation. Endpoint control may occur at a relatively central stage that represents general constraints such as gravitoinertial force background or egocentric direction relative to both arms, and control of path may occur at a more peripheral stage that represents moments of inertia and muscle dynamics unique to each limb. 5. Endpoint and path adaptation occur despite the absence both of mechanical contact cues about the perturbing force and visual or tactile cues about movement accuracy. These findings point to the importance of muscle spindle signals, monitoring of motor commands, and possibly joint and tendon receptors in a detailed trajectory monitoring process. Muscle spindle primary and secondary afferent signals may differentially influence adaptation of movement shape and endpoint, respectively.
1. Whole cell recordings were obtained from neurons of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus in transverse slices of guinea pig medulla. From a holding potential of -40 mV, short depolarizing voltage steps activated two calcium-dependent potassium currents, Gk(Ca),1 and Gk(Ca),2. 2. Gk(Ca),1 was completely blocked by apamin (100 nM). Gk(Ca),2 was apamin insensitive, voltage independent, and reversed close to the potassium equilibrium potential. 3. Activation of Gk(Ca),2 was associated with an increase in current variance. The channels underlying the slow component were analyzed by stationary and nonstationary fluctuation analysis. Current variance was linearly related to mean current for small current amplitudes but clearly deviated from linearity near the peak of Gk(Ca),2. The predicted single channel conductance was 6.8 +/- 2.5 (SE) pS. Probability of channel opening rose to at most 0.68. The average number of available Gk(Ca),2 channels on vagal neurons was 4,437 +/- 591. 4. Power spectra were constructed from the peak current. Spectra were well fitted with a single Lorentzian with a corner frequency of 72 +/- 7 Hz. The mean burst duration of the channels was 3.8 +/- 0.5 ms. These results indicate that a new type of calcium-activated channel underlies Gk(Ca),2.
1. The effect of the putative neural messenger carbon monoxide (CO) and the role of the cGMP second-messenger system for olfactory signal generation was examined in isolated olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) of the tiger salamander. 2. With the use of whole cell voltage-clamp recordings in combination with a series of ionic and pharmological tests, it is demonstrated that exogenously applied CO is a potent activator (K1/2 = 2.9 microM) of cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels previously described to mediate odor transduction. 3. Several lines of evidence suggest that CO mediates its effect through stimulation of a soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) leading to formation of the second-messenger cGMP. This conclusion is based on the findings that CO responses show an absolute requirement for guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP) in the internal solution, that no direct effect of CO on CNG currents in the absence of GTP is detectable, and that a blocker of sGC activation, LY85383 (10 microM), completely inhibits the CO response. 4. The dose-response curve for cGMP at CNG channels is used as a calibration to provide a quantitative estimate of the CO-stimulated cGMP formation. This analysis implies that CO is a potent activator of olfactory sGC. 5. Perforated patch recordings using amphotericin B demonstrate that low micromolar doses of CO effectively depolarize the membrane potential of ORNs through tonic activation of CNG channels. This effect in turn regulates excitable and adaptive properties of ORNs and modulates neuronal responsiveness. 6. These data argue for an important role of the cGMP pathway in olfactory signaling and support the idea that CO may function as a diffusible messenger in the olfactory system.
Small amplitude depolarizations (fast prepotentials, spikelets) recorded in mammalian neurons are thought to represent either dendritic action potentials or presynaptic action potentials attenuated by gap junctions. We have used whole-cell recordings in an in vitro calcium-free model of epilepsy to record spikelets from CA1 neurons of the rat hippocampus. It was found that spikelet appearance was closely correlated with the occurrence of dye coupling between pyramidal neurons, indicating that both phenomena share a common substrate. Spikelets were characterized according to waveform (amplitude and shape) and temporal occurrence. Spikelet amplitudes were found to be invariant with neuronal membrane potential, and their pattern of occurrence was indistinguishable from patterns of action potential firing in these cells. Voltage and current recordings revealed a spikelet waveform that was usually biphasic, comprised of a rapid depolarization followed by a slower hyperpolarization. Numerical differentiation of spike bursts resulted in waveforms similar to recorded spikelet sequences, while numerical integration of spikelets yielded waveforms that were indistinguishable from action potentials. Modification of spikelet waveforms by the potassium channel blocker tetraethylammonium chloride suggests that spikelets may arise from both resistive and capacitive transmission of presynaptic action potentials. Intracellular alkalinization and acidification brought about by perfusion with NH4Cl caused changes in spikelet frequency, consistent with reported alterations of field burst activity in this model of epilepsy. These results suggest that spikelets result from gap junctional communication, and may be important determinants of neuronal activity during seizure-like activity.
Agrin is an extracellular matrix protein that mediates the nerve-induced clustering of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors on target muscle cells, and thus plays a key role in development of the neuromuscular synapse. Alternative exon usage within the rat agrin gene predicts numerous protein isoforms, which differ by the inclusion or exclusion of small inserts at three sites in the C-terminal half of the molecule; the insert status at two of these sites, termed Y and Z, profoundly influences the acetylcholine receptor clustering activity. We have examined the cellular expression patterns of agrin messenger RNA transcripts during rat embryogenesis by in situ hybridization with isoform-specific probes. Six 36-mer oligonucleotide probes were designed to distinguish between mRNA isoforms at either the Y site: the encoded protein contains either no insert (Y0) or a 4-amino acid insert (Y4), or the Z site: the encoded protein contains either no insert or one of 8 (Z8), 11 (Z11), or 19 (Z19) amino acids. Strikingly different expression patterns were observed for the individual Y- and Z-site encoding messages. While optional exon usage predicts the possibility of eight different agrin isoforms at the two splice sites, we detected only four isoforms in vivo: Y4Z0, Y0Z0, Y4Z8, and Y4Z19. The Y4Z0 transcript, which comprised the majority of the agrin expressed, was localized exclusively to nervous tissue and exhibited a distribution profile suggestive of a potential role in neurogenesis and/or neural differentiation. From embryonic day 13 to birth, Y4Z0 was found in mitotic ventricular zones, spinal, cranial, and sympathetic ganglia, and diffusely throughout the brain. In contrast, Y0Z0 was not expressed in neurons, but specifically labeled capillary endothelial cells within the developing nervous system. Y4Z8 and Y4Z19, the forms most active in acetylcholine receptor aggregation, were expressed at low levels only in spinal and brainstem motor neurons; Z19 expression declined from embryonic day 15 to adulthood, whereas Z8 expression increased slightly during this period. Transcripts encoding the Z11 insert could not be detected. These data suggest potential novel biological roles for agrin beyond that originally proposed in synapse formation.
The chronic survival and differentiation of the conditionally immortalized neuronal cell line, RN33B, was examined following transplantation into the adult and neonatal rat hippocampus and cerebral cortex. In clonal culture, differentiated RN33B cells express p75NTR and trkB mRNA and protein, and respond to brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment by inducing c-fos mRNA. Transplanted cells, identified using immunohistochemistry to detect beta-galactosidase expression, were seen in most animals up to 24 weeks posttransplantation (the latest time point examined). Stably integrated cells with various morphologies consistent with their transplantation site were observed. In the cerebral cortex, many RN33B cells differentiated with morphologies similar to pyramidal neurons and stellate cells. In the hippocampal formation, many RN33B cells assumed morphologies similar to pyramidal neurons characteristic of CA1 and CA3 regions, granular cell layer neurons of the dentate gyrus, and polymorphic neurons of the hilar region. Identical morphologies were observed in both adult and neonatal hosts, although a greater percentage of beta-galactosidase immunoreactive cells had differentiated in the neonatal brains. These results suggest that RN33B cells have the developmental plasticity to respond to local microenvironmental signals and that the adult brain retains the capacity to direct the differentiation of neuronal precursor cells in a direction that is consistent with that of endogenous neurons.
Fast spiking interneurons in the CA1 area of the dorsal hippocampus were recorded from and filled with biocytin in anesthetized rats. The full extent of their dendrites and axonal arborizations as well as their calcium binding protein content were examined. Based on the spatial extent of axon collaterals, local circuit cells (basket and O-LM neurons) and long-range cells (bistratified, trilaminar, and backprojection neurons) could be distinguished. Basket cells were immunoreactive for parvalbumin and their axon collaterals were confined to the pyramidal layer. A single basket cell contacted more than 1500 pyramidal neurons and 60 other parvalbumin-positive interneurons. Commissural stimulation directly discharged basket cells, followed by an early and late IPSPs, indicating interneuronal inhibition of basket cells. The dendrites of another local circuit neuron (O-LM) were confined to stratum oriens and it had a small but high-density axonal terminal field in stratum lacunosum-moleculare. The fastest firing cell of all interneurons was a calbindin-immunoreactive bistratified neuron with axonal targets in stratum oriens and radiatum. Two neurons with their cell bodies in the alveus innervated the CA3 region (backprojection cells), in addition to rich axon collaterals in the CA1 region. The trilaminar interneuron had axon collaterals in strata radiatum, oriens and pyramidale with its dendrites confined to stratum oriens. Commissural stimulation evoked an early EPSP-IPSP-late depolarizing potential sequence in this cell. All interneurons formed symmetric synapses with their targets at the electron microscopic level. These findings indicate that interneurons with distinct axonal targets have differential functions in shaping the physiological patterns of the CA1 network.
Cultured retinal ganglion cell growth cones avoid neurites extending from PNS explants. Here we characterize a growth cone collapsing activity in detergent extracts of newborn calf adrenal plasma membranes that has characteristics expected for an avoidance cue on peripheral neurites. This adrenal derived activity induces the rapid and reversible collapse of retinal growth cones grown on either of two distinct adhesion substrata, mouse laminin or the chick cell surface axonal glycoprotein G4/NgCAM. The collapsing activity is inhibited by several different types of serine proteinase inhibitors, including the irreversible inhibitor PPACK (D-phenylalanyl-prolyl-arginine chloromethyl ketone). The activity is not inhibited by the specific thrombin inhibitor, hirudin. We have named the adrenal derived collapsing activity erase. PPACK blocks the collapse of temporal retinal growth cones on contact with DRG neurites, but does not block the collapse of the same growth cones on contact with nasal retinal neurites. These results support the hypothesis that a serine proteinase on peripheral axons serves as an avoidance cue which induces contact mediated collapse of retinal growth cones.
Hope is a response of patients and families to actual and potential health problems. The study of this phenomenon in neuroscience populations is limited. Facilitating hope in the health care setting results from an understanding of its definition and significance to nursing, multidisciplinary origins and scientific investigations. Nursing interventions should include attention to the environment, goals, relationships, change and energy.
Computerized EEG (CEEG) monitoring has recently been introduced to intensive care units (ICU). Unlike the intermittent assessment using coma scales, CEEG monitoring provides continuous information about a patients' neurological condition. Patient status can be monitored more accurately with CEEG. The use of CEEG monitoring has been proposed for those patients who may experience a decline in cerebral blood flow related to increased intracranial pressure (ICP) or other ischemic events. CEEG is also used in status epilepticus, non-convulsive seizures, metabolic disorders, intracerebral tumors and all etiologies of coma. The goal of continuous CEEG monitoring is to recognize a decline in a patient's condition before physical signs and symptoms are present. The neuroscience nurse participates in the assessment of the EEG recording as well as in evaluating therapy. This article introduces the neuroscience nurse to the basic terminology, rationale for use and clinical application for continuous computerized EEG monitoring.
This study evaluated a neuroscience nursing community outreach program titled, &quot;After the Party's Over,&quot; focused on teenage drinking and driving prevention. The program consisted of a 20-minute slide presentation with contemporary music and narration that depicted graphic pictures of actual patients who sustained severe head and spinal cord injuries (SCIs) as a result of motor vehicle accidents (MVAs). A convenience sample of 274 high school drivers' education students was obtained. A Likert-type scale that measured reported behaviors was administered immediately before and after the program and one month after program completion. Results indicated a significant change in reported driving behavior of teenagers who participated in this program.
Nitrous oxide (N2O), 70%, in O2 is often used as a control condition after surgical preparation in rodents undergoing neuroscience investigations. Concern has been expressed that this constitutes a stressful condition. Microdialysis was used in 15 rats to assess extracellular striatal dopamine concentrations during overnight soundproof isolation and on the following day after vascular cannulation and halothane excretion under N2O sedation with concomitant neuromuscular blockade. The overnight dialysate dopamine concentration was 22.8 +/- 8.7 pg/40 microliters. Thirty minutes after stopping halothane, the dialysate concentration was 362.6 +/- 91.6 pg/40 microliters during postsurgical N2O sedation. These data indicate that (a) compared to an unstressed baseline, significant brain dopamine effects occur with N2O sedation after surgery with halothane N2O anesthesia, and (b) baseline conditions can have a major effect on microdialysis data expressed as percentage of baseline.
Membrane lipid-derived second messengers are generated by phospholipase A2 (PLA2) during synaptic activity. Overstimulation of this enzyme during neurotrauma results in the accumulation of bioactive metabolites such as arachidonic acid, oxygenated derivatives of arachidonic acid, and platelet-activating factor (PAF). Several of these bioactive lipids participate in cell damage, cell death, or repair-regenerative neural plasticity. Neurotransmitters may activate PLA2 directly when linked to receptors coupled to G proteins and/or indirectly as calcium influx or mobilization from intracellular stores is stimulated. The release of arachidonic acid and its subsequent metabolism to prostaglandins are early responses linked to neuronal signal transduction. Free arachidonic acid may interact with membrane proteins, i.e., receptors, ion channels, and enzymes, modifying their activity. It can also be acted upon by prostaglandin synthase isoenzymes (the constitutive prostaglandin synthase PGS-1 or the inducible PGS-2) and by lipoxygenases, with the resulting formation of different prostaglandins and leukotrienes. Glutamatergic synaptic activity and activation of postsynaptic NMDA receptors are examples of neuronal activity, linked to memory and learning processes, which activate PLA2 with the consequent release of arachidonic acid and platelet-activating factor (PAF), another lipid mediator. Both mediators may exert presynaptic and postsynaptic effects contributing to long-lasting changes in glutamate synaptic efficacy or long-term potentiation (LTP), PAF, a potential retrograde messenger in LTP, stimulates glutamate release. The PAF antagonist BN 52021 competes for receptors in presynaptic membranes and blocks this effect. PAF may also be involved in plasticity responses because PAF leads to the expression of early response genes and subsequent gene cascades. The PAF antagonist BN 50730, selective for PAF intracellular binding, blocks PAF-mediated induction of gene expression. A consequence of neural injury induced by ischemia, trauma, or seizures is an increased release of neurotransmitters, that in turn generates an overproduction of second messengers. Glutamate, a key player in excitotoxic neuronal damage, triggers increased permeation of calcium mediated by NMDA receptors and activation of PLA2 in postsynaptic neurons. NMDA receptor antagonists reduce the accumulation of free fatty acids and elicit neuroprotection in ischemic damage. Increased production of free arachidonic acid and PAF converges to exacerbate glutamate-mediated neurotransmission. These neurotoxic actions may be brought about by arachidonic acid-induced potentiation of NMDA receptor activity and decreased glutamate reuptake. On the other hand, PAF stimulates the further release of glutamate at presynaptic endings. The neuroprotective effects of the PAF antagonist BN 52021 in ischemia-reperfusion are due, at least in part, to an inhibition of presynaptic glutamate release. PAF also induces expression of the inducible prostaglandin synthase gene, and PAF antagonists selective for the intracellular sites inhibit this effect. The PAF antagonist also inhibits the enhanced abundance, due to vasogenic cerebral edema and ischemia-reperfusion damage, of inducible prostaglandin synthase mRNA in vivo. Therefore, PAF, an injury-generated mediator, may favor the formation of other cell injury and inflammation mediators by turning on the expression of the gene that encodes prostaglandin synthase.
Traumatic or ischemic injuries to the central nervous system (CNS) initiate reactive biochemical changes, some of which are autodestructive and others neuroprotective. Identification of these endogenous factors and their regulation will help to clarify mechanisms of secondary tissue damage and may lead to novel therapies. Recently developed molecular approaches offer opportunities for identifying genes involved in these reactive processes. Three types of molecular strategies are reviewed and examples are provided to demonstrate how each may be applied to elucidate basic mechanisms underlying posttraumatic or postischemic death.
Brain tumors are the second most common malignancy in children less than 15 years of age and the most common solid tumor of childhood. Approximately 60% to 70% of pediatric brain tumors originate in the posterior fossa. Since 1989, the two hospitals that comprise the setting for this study have treated 121 children with posterior fossa brain tumors. A postoperative syndrome, labeled posterior fossa syndrome, has been identified in certain children. This syndrome involves a variety of signs and symptoms including mutism or speech disturbances, dysphagia, decreased motor movement, cranial nerve palsies and, emotional lability. These signs and symptoms develop from an average range of 24 to 107 hours after surgery and may take weeks to months to resolve. The exact etiology of the syndrome is unknown. The purpose of this retrospective medical records review of 19 children diagnosed with posterior fossa syndrome is to describe the symptoms of the syndrome. Early recognition of this syndrome could facilitate preventive and restorative patient care, prevent subsequent complications, decrease length of hospital stays, and promote patient and family understanding of and coping with the syndrome.
Despite substantial data on radioligand binding to the sigma receptor, neither the physiologic function nor the intracellular mechanism of this receptor is known. In this study, we examined the effect of sigma ligands on Ca++ influx induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) in single primary cultured rat frontal cortical neurons with fluorescence video microscopy. All sigma ligands tested reduced the NMDA-induced increase in intracellular Ca++ concentration ([Ca++]i) in a dose-dependent manner with IC50 values in the low micromolar range. Inhibition by haloperidol and (+)-N-cyclopropylmethyl-N-methyl-1,4-diphenyl-1-ethyl-but-3-en-1-ylam ine hydrochloride (JO1784) was noncompetitive; but, exogenous glycine (100 microM) did not alter their IC50 values. In addition, haloperidol (1 microM) enhanced Mg+(+)-mediated inhibition of the NMDA-induced [Ca++]i increase (IC50 = 0.45 +/- 0.01 mM vs. an IC50 = 0.98 +/- 0.06 mM for Mg++ alone). Selective sigma receptor ligands (JO1784, (+)-pentazocine) caused a greater reduction of the sustained phase of the Ca++ response to NMDA, whereas haloperidol and DTG reduced both the initial and sustained phase of the response to a similar degree. The rank order of potencies for inhibition of both the sustained Ca++ response phase and (+)-[3H]SKF-10047 binding (Roman et al., J. Pharm. Pharmacol. 42: 439-440, 1989) were similar. These findings suggest that sigma 1 ligands indirectly modulate NMDA receptor complex function through sigma 1 receptors and that sigma ligands facilitate the desensitization of the Ca++ response to NMDA.
Interleukin-12 (IL-12) is a heterodimeric cytokine. In order to transduce both cDNAs for p35 and p40 of IL-12 in the tumor cells, a polycistronic retroviral vector was constructed by inserting the internal ribosome entry site gene of encephalomyocarditis virus between two cDNAs. On the other hand, two cDNAs were sequentially transfected in the tumor cells. Both polycistronic gene transfectants and double transfectants produced biologically active mouse IL-12. IL-12-expressing tumor cells were all rejected in syngeneic mice, and induced cytotoxic T lymphocyte activity. The capacity to induce anti-tumor memory may depend on the amount of IL-12 produced by the transfectants, because the relatively higher IL-12 producer tumor cell line induced the anti-tumor memory in the rejected mice, but the lower producer did not.

K.O. Johnson reviews the architecture and low level neural mechanisms by which the external environment is transduced and encoded into the neural system, summarizing work that correlates neurophysiological and psychophysical testing with isolation of sensory components. The slowly adapting Type I afferent system is responsible for form and texture perception; the rapidly adapting afferent system is responsible for motion perception; and the Pacinian corpuscle system is responsible for vibratory sensation. R.R. Riso reviews the current level of understanding of the major factors to be considered in the design of a functional neuromuscular stimulation (FNS) grasp controller that uses cutaneous sensory feedback to detect slip. The elegant natural control scheme that matches the ratio of grip and lift forces to frictional conditions provides a model for implementing a slip-based control algorithm. D. Popovi discusses the possible use of recordings from more proximal peripheral nerves to determine needed information for synthesis of locomotion. The discussion is illustrated with an animal model where rule-based closed-loop control is used for the ankle joint during treadmill locomotion. Neural signals from the tibial and superficial peroneal nerves were employed to substitute for missing afferent input from cutaneous and proprioceptive sensors. The feasibility of more invasive intraneural electrodes for distinguishing sensory from motor information in mixed nerves is considered. M. Koris raises surgical and functional issues relevant to developing clinical FNS systems. C. Van Doren suggests alternative neurophysiological and engineering approaches.
In the mammalian retina, multiple mechanisms are responsible for guiding retinal ganglion cell axons to the optic fissure. In the present study we have used time-lapse videomicroscopy to show that, within the center of the retinal neuroepithelium, growth cones use a scaffold of previously formed axons as a substrate for guidance. High magnification time-lapse videomicroscopy of normal growth cones in the midretina have shown that they have the ability to alter their shape from long, streamlined forms that hug other axons to more flattened forms that move between axons or neuroepithelial endfeet. In studies on the role of specific cell interactions in these events, Fab fragments against L1 and NCAM, administered either alone or in combination, were found to have dramatic and distinct effects on retinal ganglion cell growth cones. Anti-L1 Fab fragments severely disrupted radial growth cone orientation and rate of outgrowth. The anti-L1-treated growth cones initially stalled for 2 h, then changed direction and, thereafter, resumed an elongation rate twice as fast as in control preparations. By contrast, anti-NCAM Fab did not affect growth cone direction, but caused subsets of growth cones to speed up initially, then to dramatically increase in size, stall, and eventually halt. These results imply that L1 and NCAM play different roles in the promotion and direction of axon growth and, along with repulsive molecules and physical channels, provide essential information for the unidirectional growth of retinal axons into the optic fissure.
In this study, the multiple factors that govern the unidirectional path of intraretinal axons, as well as the cellular movements prior to and during early axonogenesis, were investigated using time-lapse videomicroscopy. For several hours prior to overt axon elongation, young retinal ganglion cells send out transient minor processes in all directions at the pial surface. Time-lapse analysis of the chondroitin sulfate (CS)-containing matrix that has been suggested to play an important role in regulating this early differentiative event revealed the dynamic, wavelike properties of this extracellular matrix component. As the CS matrix dissipates across the immature ganglion cells, only one minor process, away from the highest concentration of CS peripherally and in the direction of the optic fissure centrally, is retained and becomes the mature axon. Focal concentrations of L1 appear at points of neurite contact with previously established axons, suggesting that this growth-promoting molecule is also involved with establishing the precise, unidirectional outgrowth pattern of retinal ganglion cell axons. NCAM was diffusely distributed on neural elements and on the neuroepithelial endfeet in the central and peripheral retina and, thus, may not be an essential unidirectional axon growth cue. Growth cones mechanically deflected 180 degrees from the optic fissure after the CS wave had receded from the central retina had morphologies and rates of elongation similar to those oriented in the proper direction. Growth cones deflected obliquely toward the ventral retinal periphery entered a territory of increasing CS-containing proteoglycan matrix and neurons with minor processes. As these deflected axons entered more deeply into this region they slowed down and sent out long transient branchlike processes. These observations illustrate the complex organization of the changing cell surface and matrix components within the retina during axonogenesis and axon outgrowth. The results also elucidate the potential importance of a cell state where immature neurons probe their environment via minor processes. These specialized neurites may provide the neuron with a way to sample a full 360 degrees of terrain around them. This method of exploring the environment could afford the cell a mechanism with which to sample, summate, and respond to physical structures as well as simultaneously occurring negative and positive molecular influences that are distributed unequally on either side of the cell body.
Pharmacological properties of the (+)- and (-)-isomers of synthetic epibatidine, exo-2-(6-chloro-3-pyridyl)-7-azabicyclo-[2.2.1]heptane, were compared with nicotine and acetylcholine on several subtypes of chicken and human nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs). Both isomers of epibatidine behaved as extremely potent full agonists on chicken (alpha 3 beta 2, alpha 3 beta 4, alpha 4 beta 2, alpha 7, and alpha 8) and human (alpha 3 beta 2, alpha 3 beta 4, and alpha 7) neuronal AChRs expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Currents induced by epibatidine were effectively blocked by the nicotinic antagonists hexamethonium and mecamylamine. Apparent affinity was 100 to 1000-fold higher for epibatidine than for nicotine or acetylcholine. EC50 values ranged from 1 nM (for homomeric chicken alpha 8) to 2 microM (for homomeric chicken alpha 7). Epibatidine showed comparatively lower affinity for muscle-type AChRs from Torpedo and humans (EC50 values, 1.6 and 16 microM respectively). In binding assays, epibatidine was used on AChR subtypes immunoisolated from chicken brain and retina (alpha 4 beta 2, alpha 7, and alpha 8), the human neuronal cell line SH-SY5Y (alpha 3 and alpha 7), Torpedo electric organ (alpha 1 beta 1 gamma delta), or the human rhabdomyosarcoma cell line TE671 (alpha 1 beta 1 gamma delta). Both isomers of epibatidine exhibited extremely high affinity for all neuronal AChRs tested, with KI values ranging from 0.6 pM (human alpha 3 AChRs) to 0.6 microM (chicken alpha 7 AChRs). In contrast, epibatidine had lower affinity for Torpedo muscle-type AChRs (KI approximately 5 microM). Racemic [3H]epibatidine was an effective labeling reagent for human alpha 3 beta 2 AChRs, exhibiting a KD (0.14 nM) similar to the KI values observed for unlabeled (+)-epibatidine (0.23 nM) or (-)-epibatidine (0.16 nM).

Genetic instability is generally thought to underlie the process of aging and is predominantly associated with meiosis and mitosis. This review will discuss DNA damage and repair, somatic mutations and somatic recombination events in non-dividing neurons in relation to aging. In general it can be concluded that mutagenesis operates at high frequency in the brain. Present data do not provide clear evidence for accumulating DNA damage or a change in DNA repair activity in the brain with age. However, a linear age-related increase in frameshift mutations has been shown to occur in vasopressin neurons of the rat, revealing a novel post-mitotic mechanism.
The mature form of cathepsin D (Cat D), purified to homogeneity from postmortem human brain or mouse brain, behaved as a 42-kDa protein in its native state but revealed additional proteolytic processing under denaturing conditions. Human brain Cat D was composed of a 30-32 kDa heavy chain and a protein doublet consisting of 14 and 15 kDa light chains. Mouse Cat D, which closely resembled the human enzyme in amino acid composition, existed mainly as the uncleaved 42-kDa protein, but up to 40% existed as a complex of 30-32 kDa and 12-14 kDa chains. The 3:1 ratio of light to heavy (30-32 kDa) chains suggested processing of some 30-kDa chains. Cleavage of the 42-kDa chain could not be induced autolytically. Human brain Cat D had a 2-3-fold higher specific activity than the mouse enzyme but shared other properties, including similar biphasic pH optima (peaks at pH 3.30 and 4.2), Km values for methemoglobin and inhibitor profiles. Human Cat D displayed the same polypeptide chain composition when purified from brains differing in postmortem interval (3-28 h). Fresh SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells analyzed on Western blots with anti-Cat D antibodies also displayed only cleaved forms of mature Cat D. Furthermore, brain Cat D isolated from mice stored after death for 5, 15 or 30 h at 25 degrees C contained the same molar ratios of cleaved and uncleaved enzyme found in fresh mouse brain . Cat D activity was stable in human brains with postmortem intervals up to 27 h and stored frozen for up to 3 years. Similarly, total Cat D activity was essentially unchanged in brains of mice subjected to stimulated postmortem conditions for 0.5-4.2 h, although 20% of the total soluble brain protein became insoluble during this postmortem interval. These results demonstrate a remarkable postmortem stability of Cat D and strongly suggest that limited proteolytic cleavage of mature brain Cat D is an in vivo event, the extent of which varies markedly in different species.
Effects of acute and long-term treatment of neonatal rats with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists on changes in NMDA receptor properties were examined. Animals received either on postnatal day 6 a single dose of the antagonists MK-801 (1 mg/kg), or D-CPPene (2 mg/kg) or during the period from postnatal day 5 to 14, two daily injections of MK-801 (0.25 mg/kg) or D-CPPene (0.75 mg/kg). Control littermates received saline injections. In both cases animals were sacrificed one day after the last injection. NMDA receptor properties were examined in membrane preparations derived from the cerebral cortex by studying the modulation of [3H]MK-801 binding by glutamate, Mg2+ and D-CPPene. The density of agonist- and antagonist-binding sites in the CA1 region of the hippocampus were determined by autoradiography, using [3H]CGP39653 or [3H]glutamate as ligands. A significant developmental increase in NMDA receptor binding sites was detected both in preparations of cerebral cortical membranes and in the CA1 area of the hippocampus. In addition, the Mg2+ sensitivity of [3H]MK-801 binding was significantly higher in membrane preparations from the cerebral cortex of postnatal day 15 compared to postnatal day 7 animals. Neither the single nor the subchronic treatment with NMDA receptor antagonists exerted a significant influence on the density of antagonist binding sites or on the modulation of [3H]MK-801 binding by glutamate, Mg2+ or D-CPPene. We conclude therefore that neonatal treatment with NMDA receptor antagonists in vivo does not involve significant alterations in the properties and the densities of NMDA receptors in the brain regions studies, i.e., during the period when expression of these receptors is subject to pronounced developmental regulation.
We have previously reported that ischemia reperfusion injury results from free radical generation following transient global ischemia, and that this radical induced damage is evident in the synaptosomal membrane of the gerbil. [Hall et al, (1995) Neuroscience 64: 81-89]. In the present study we have extended these observations to transient focal ischemia in the cat. We prepared synaptosomal membranes from frontal, parietal-temporal, and occipital regions of the cat cerebral cortex with reperfusion times of 1 and 3 hours following 1 hour right middle cerebral artery occlusion. The membranes were selectively labeled with protein and lipid specific paramagnetic spin labels and analyzed using electron paramagnetic resonance spectrometry. There were significant motional changes of both the protein and lipid specific spin labels in the parietal-temporal and occipital regions with 1 hour reperfusion; but, both parameters returned to control values by 3 hours reperfusion. No significant changes were observed in the normally perfused frontal pole at either reperfusion time. These results support the argument that free radicals play a critical role in cell damage at early reperfusion times following ischemia.
These experiments have investigated selenium movement between blood and the CNS in anaesthetized rats. Each animal was anaesthetized and the left femoral blood vessels cannulated for blood withdrawal and solute infusion. Each rat received 75-Se as sodium selenite infused in normal saline and experiments lasted between 5 minutes and 5 hours during which blood samples were periodically taken. At termination, the CNS was removed, dissected and analysed with the plasma samples for 75-Se radioactivity by gamma-counting. Data were analyzed by multiple-time uptake analysis. Results showed unidirectional uptake of 75-Se into the CNS and some regional differences were found. On average the CNS influx rate constant (Kin) was about 7 +/- 1 x 10(-5) ml/min/g. This indicates that the 75-Se most likely entered the CNS in a protein-bound form.
Calcium and phospholipid dependent Protein kinase C (PKC) may play a role in memory function and pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Abnormal phosphorylation by PKC as well as reduced levels of PKC has been implicated in the neurodegeneration associated with AD and aging. Recently, many subtypes of PKC isozymes have been identified by molecular biology techniques which are expressed differentially in various regions of the brain. The reduction and alterations in the activities and distribution of these subtypes of PKC isozymes may be accountable for the decline of selective neurons during aging. In order to investigate the role of PKC isozymes during aging, we examined the distribution of PKC-alpha, beta, and gamma mRNA expressions between young (4 months) and old (25 months) rat brains using in situ hybridization histochemistry. Our studies showed that signals of three isoforms of PKC mRNA vary in cortical and hippocampal regions. However, no change was detected in any of the PKC isoforms mRNA expression in aged animals.
The modulation of Ca2+ channel activity by protein kinases contributes to the dynamic regulation of neuronal physiology. Using the transient expression of a family of neuronal Ca2+ channels, we have identified several factors that contribute to the PKC-dependent modulation of Ca2+ channels. First, the nature of the Ca2+ channel alpha 1 subunit protein is critical. Both alpha 1B and alpha 1E channels exhibit a 30%-40% increase in peak currents after exposure to phorbol esters, whereas neither alpha 1A nor alpha 1C channels are significantly affected. This up-regulation can be mimicked for alpha 1E channels by stimulation of a coexpressed metabotropic glutamate receptor (type 1 alpha) through a PKC-dependent pathway. Second, PKC-stimulated up-regulation is dependent upon coexpression with a Ca2+ channel beta subunit. Third, substitution of the cytoplasmic domain I-II linker from alpha 1B confers PKC sensitivity to alpha 1A channels. The results provide direct evidence for the modulation of a subset of neuronal Ca2+ channels by PKC and implicate alpha 1 and beta subunit interactions in regulating channel activity via second messenger pathways.
We have cloned a receptor, named LSCPR, for vasopressin-related Lys-conopressin in Lymnaea stagnalis. Lys-conopressin evokes Ca(2+)-dependent Cl- currents in Xenopus oocytes injected with LSCPR cRNA. Expression of LSCPR mRNA was detected in central neurons and peripheral muscles associated with reproduction. Upon application of Lys-conopressin, both neurons and muscle cells depolarize owing to an enhancement of voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents and start firing action potentials. Some neurons coexpress LSCPR and Lys-conopressin, suggesting an autotransmitter-like function for this peptide. Lys-conopressin also induces a depolarizing response in LSCPR-expressing neuroendocrine cells that control carbohydrate metabolism. Thus, in addition to oxytocin-like reproductive functions, LSCPR mediates vasopressin-like metabolic functions of Lys-conopressin as well.
Contradictory hypotheses regarding the nature of synaptic transmission in the CNS have arisen from indirect methods of quantal analysis. In this study, we directly count the quanta released following nerve stimulation to examine synaptic transmission at a fast glutamatergic synapse in the mammalian auditory brainstem. Our results demonstrate the relationship between spontaneous and nerve-evoked synaptic events, indicate that asynchronous transmitter release governs the time course of evoked transmission, and show that the stochastic quantal release process, as originally proposed at the neuromuscular junction, is highly conserved at this central synapse.
We compared the performance of patients with frontal excisions, patients with temporal excisions and controls in tasks involving speeded choice responses in which a number of variables were manipulated including: perceptual difficulty, stimulus and response set-size, associative complexity, and spatial stimulus-response compatibility. Response times were sensitive to all manipulations but did not show any group differences. The error rates of the three groups were equally affected by perceptual difficulty and response set-size but frontals were preferentially affected by spatial S-R compatibility, associative complexity, and the number of stimuli per response. The results are consistent with a basic deficit in response selection processes which could underly many problems produced by frontal lesions.
Callosotomized patient J.W. has a well-documented history of right hemisphere language abilities, including an auditory and visual lexical-semantic system with limited phonology and syntax. However, J.W. has not previously exhibited the ability to name stimuli presented to the left visual field (LVF). We report the emergence of this ability. Experiments were conducted in which pictures and text were presented to the subject's LVF using retinal stabilization techniques to ensure lateralization. J.W. was able to correctly name approximately one-quarter of these stimuli under a variety of presentation conditions. The newly developed ability to respond verbally to complex LVF stimuli can be the result of (1) enhanced inter-hemispheric transfer of information via sub-cortical pathways, (2) sophisticated cross cueing strategies, or (3) control of motor speech in the right hemisphere. Although it appears that the first two mechanisms make a contribution to J.W.'s LVF naming performance, accuracy for unpredictable stimulus sets and the error patterns require acknowledgement that control of motor speech is now available to the right hemisphere.
Non-Darwinian views of evolution of nervous systems (e.g., Jacksonian evolution) conceive the present structure of the human brain as composed of a series of additive layers representing successive phylogenetic stages in evolution, layers which remain static after their emergence. In contrast to this view, recent allometric studies clearly show that limbic structures scale with the growth of the human brain (i.e., they do not remain stable but reach the size expected for the brain of a primate with the weight of a human brain). Data also show that limbic structures are significantly involved in cognitive functions such as memory and attention. Hence overlap of lesions in similar brain loci, especially in limbic regions, in both manic-depression and schizophrenia should come as no surprise. In the psychobiological sphere, the need for cognitive perceptual evaluation of the external world and internal state for emotional experience, further to the necessary visceral arousal, leads to a breakdown of the platonic, essentialist position, emotion vs. cognition at the psychological level, a problematic issue for the Kraepelinean view. Neural networks operation depend upon multiple nonlinear processes at the cellular, synaptic and network levels. Afferent input may serve not only to activate, but also to configure them into one of several circuit modes. These networks have been named polymorphic and can, at least to a measure, account for commonalities in lesion sites, in both affective and schizophrenic diseases. It is proposed that fundamental neuroscience should serve as one of the bases for the classification of psychiatric disorders.
The properties as well as the distribution of high specific activity alpha-[O-methyl-3H]methyoxytetrabenazine binding to the synaptic vesicular monoamine transporter were studied autoradiographically in rat brain sections. Saturation analysis revealed [3H]methoxytetrabenazine interaction with a homogeneous population of striatal sites (Hill coefficient 1.00 +/- 0.05), with an apparent equilibrium dissociation binding constant of 3.9 +/- 0.4 nM and a maximal binding capacity of 1.2 +/- 0.1 fmol/micrograms protein. Highest levels of [3H]methoxytetrabenazine binding sites were observed in regions richly innervated by the monoamine systems. In the presence of 1 microM concentrations of a variety of competing drugs, only reserpine significantly inhibited [3H]methoxytetrabenazine binding. The presynaptic nigrostriatal location of [3H]methoxytetrabenazine binding was demonstrated by unilateral lesion of the median forebrain bundle with 6-hydroxydopamine. The resulting decrease of striatal [3H]methoxytetrabenazine binding showed an excellent correlation with tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neuron density in the substantia nigra pars compacta (r2 = 0.96; P &lt; 0.001). The present studies demonstrate that in vitro [3H]methoxytetrabenazine binding is a reliable, quantitative marker of the synaptic vesicular monoamine transporter. Further, it is indicated that [3H]methoxytetrabenazine binding provides an accurate assessment of monoamine neuronal losses and may thus be of great value in future studies of neurodegenerative diseases.
In decerebrate cats paralysed with gallamine, over a period of several days there develops a remarkable synchronization of discharge in widely different motor nerves throughout the body, including intercostal nerves and limb nerves. These discharges are also in synchrony with slow waves approximately 100 ms in duration in the inferior olive. The slow waves and discharges are at first irregular and only weakly synchronized, but become increasingly strongly synchronized and by about the fourth day exhibit a strong 6-8 Hz rhythm. The degree of synchronization is greater the lower the end-tidal CO2 concentration. Transection of the spinal cord at a high cervical level breaks the synchrony and may abolish the discharge in the nerves, but the slow waves in the inferior olive continue rhythmically. It was shown, however, that gallamine injected subdurally at cervical vertebra 7 or lumbar vertebra 7 has a direct excitatory action on the spinal cord. Slow waves in the inferior olive are elicited by gallamine in the decerebrate, spinalized and decerebellectomized cat, and therefore must originate in the brainstem. Gallamine is known to act directly on olivary neurons and the slow waves may originate in the inferior olive, but further experiments are needed to determine what other structures it affects. The condition of the cat a few days after decerebration and paralysis resembles the clinical condition of reticular reflex myoclonus and it is suggested that the genesis of the myoclonus may be similar in the two conditions.
The present study examined expression and plasticity of the neuropeptide, galanin, in carotid body afferent neurons in the petrosal ganglion of the adult rat. The pattern of galanin expression was compared with that of tyrosine hydroxylase, a selective marker of dopaminergic carotid body afferents in the petrosal ganglion. In normal animals, only 3% of tyrosine hydroxylase-containing petrosal ganglion neurons co-expressed galanin. Retrograde labeling studies, in which FluoroGold was injected into the vascularly isolated carotid body, demonstrated that all tyrosine hydroxylase-positive-galanin-positive cells in the petrosal ganglion project to this target. In addition, however, we unexpectedly found that galanin expression was markedly increased in the petrosal ganglion following FluoroGold injection into the carotid body. On the other hand, tyrosine hydroxylase expression was unchanged, indicating that monoaminergic and peptidergic traits can be differentially regulated in these cells. In summary, these data demonstrate that monoaminergic chemoafferent neurons can co-express a peptidergic trait, similar to catecholaminergic neurons within the central and autonomic nervous systems, and that these cells retain the potential for phenotypic plasticity in adulthood.
Intracellular recording and labeling with biocytin followed by electron microscopic observation were used to examine the nature and the morphological basis of a synaptically evoked hyperpolarization following spikes in the rat superior cervical ganglion neurons. A large hyperpolarization (the amplitude &gt; 8 mV; the duration &gt; 1 s following spikes) was elicited by repetitive stimulation of the preganglionic nerves in 8% of cells examined (n = 50). The alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, yohimbine, reversibly attenuated the hyperpolarization, without affecting spikes. A nicotinic antagonist, hexamethonium, blocked both the hyperpolarization and spikes. Atropine had no effect of these responses. Electron microscopic observation of dendrites of these cells revealed that they received synaptic inputs of adrenergic type besides a cholinergic one from the preganglionic axons. Some dendrites served as presynaptic elements. These results strongly suggest that the hyperpolarization is an inhibitory postsynaptic potential and that this disynaptic response to the preganglionic stimulation is mediated mainly by two transmitters, acetylcholine and noradrenaline that are released from axodendritic and dendrodendritic synapses, respectively. We conclude that there appears to be an adrenergic inhibitory local circuit that modulates cholinergic transmission in the sympathetic ganglia.
We have adapted a pupillometry measurement system to test the functional efficacy of retinae previously transplanted over the midbrain of neonatal rats in mediating a pupillary light reflex in the host eye. This has permitted us to examine factors influencing various parameters of the response, and to study transplant-mediated responses in comparison with responses mediated by way of the normal consensual pathway. Despite the unusual location of these transplanted retinae and the absence of supportive tissues normally associated with retinae in situ, it is clear that pupilloconstriction in the host eye can be elicited by transplant illumination. Under the optimal conditions here defined, response parameters for individual animals were stable with repeated testing over extended periods. When considered as individual cases, response amplitude, constriction rate and response latency were intensity dependent, although responses elicited by transplant illumination were less sensitive than normal, typically by 2-3 log units. Large-amplitude transplant-mediated pupillary responses could, however, be elicited repeatedly throughout long trains of stimuli, unlike normal responses, which rapidly failed to recover to baseline under similar test conditions. Finally, even though some cellular elements of the visual cycle are absent in transplanted retinae, pupilloconstriction in the host eye could be elicited repeatedly by transplant illumination as long as two years after transplantation took place. These observations indicate the applicability of this preparation as an assay for the effects of experimental manipulations on information processing and response plasticity in the visual system, and as a tool for examining, in general, the necessary conditions for optimal function of grafts that work by synthesizing and relaying neural signals.
Pupilloconstriction to light can be mediated in rats through direct illumination of retinae previously transplanted to intracranial locations. Transplant-driven and normal pupillary light responses are stable under optimal testing conditions, and parameters describing the response can be quantified precisely. The present study demonstrates the interaction between transplant-driven and normal pupillary response patterns. When stimuli are presented concurrently to a transplanted retina and to the remaining eye in host rats, a greater degree of pupilloconstriction occurs than when either the transplanted or the host eye is illuminated independently. This suggests that transplant and host retinal inputs act in concert to determine pupil diameter. The second portion of this study investigates the pattern of retinal input to the pretectum to determine if a structural basis for such functional interactions may exist. Crossed and uncrossed retinal projections to the olivary pretectal nucleus occupy non-overlapping regions of this bilaterally represented nucleus in normal rats, with a greater number of optic axons directed to the contralateral olivary pretectal nucleus. Retinae transplanted to the midbrain of neonatal rats, from whom the contralateral eye had been removed, also project to the olivary pretectal nucleus at maturity. By contrast with the normal pattern of segregated retinal inputs, however, the terminal fields of transplant axons were found to overlap extensively with the retinal projection from the remaining host eye. In addition, the relative proportion of transplant axons directed to the ipsilateral and contralateral olivary pretectal nucleus varied among animals. The lack of spatial segregation between inputs from transplant and host sources and the relative proportion of ipsilateral and contralateral transplant axons together may represent a structural basis for the observed functional interactoin of these inputs to the neural circuit subserving pupilloconstriction to light. These features may also relate to the marked improvements in transplant-mediated responses that frequently occur when optic input from the remaining host eye is eliminated. The results presented here, together with our previous transplant studies, show that this preparation can be used to provide insight into more general questions as to the dynamic interactions that occur between converging sensory inputs in the generation of integrated output responses.
The purpose of the present investigation was to determine whether calbindin-D28k and parvalbumin are distributed to different subpopulations of somatic and visceral sensory neurons. Immunofluorescent and retrograde techniques were combined to examine the distribution of calbindin- and parvalbumin-like immunoreactivity in the cell bodies of somatic and visceral primary afferent neurons in dorsal root ganglia L1-S1 of rats. Calbindin and parvalbumin were differentially distributed to essentially non-overlapping subpopulations of primary sensory neurons that could be distinguished by their segmental and size distributions, as well as by their innervation of somatic and visceral structures. Calbindin-like immunoreactivity was found in a population of smaller-sized cell bodies comprising approximately 14%of all dorsal root ganglion cells examined, with the proportions being greatest in L6 and S1. In contrast, parvalbumin was found in a population of larger-sized cells that made up about 11% of dorsal root ganglion cells and that were most concentrated in L4 and L5. Sensory neurons were further characterized by retrograde transport following the application of the neuroanatomical tracer FluoroGold to somatic (sural and gastrocnemius) and visceral (hypogastric and pelvic) nerves. Somatic tissues were innervated by a population of calbindin-containing as well as a separate population of parvalbumin-containing sensory neurons. In contrast, afferent neurons innervating visceral structures contained only a subpopulation of calbindin-containing neurons and very few parvalbumin-positive cells.
In vitro receptor autoradiography was used to localize, quantify and characterize [125I-Tyr8]bradykinin binding sites in all major spinal cord segments of normal rats and animals subjected to various chemical treatments and surgical lesions. [125I-Tyr8]bradykinin specific binding sites were predominantly located to superficial laminae of the rat dorsal horn, with the substantia gelatinosa showing the highest density of labelling (values ranging from 3.1 fmol/mg tissue in cervical to 4.5 fmol/mg tissue in lumbar segments). A moderate density (1.8-3.0 fmol/mg tissue) of specific binding was observed in lamina III, whereas in other areas, i.e. laminae I and IV-X, lower amounts of labelling were detected. Within the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn, [125I-Tyr8]bradykinin binding was largely distributed over the neurophil with some perikarya showing concentrations of labelling. In contrast, the ventral horn showed a rather homogeneous distribution of [125I-Tyr8]bradykinin binding over the neuropil, with silver grain alignments surrounding motoneuron perikaryas and proximal processes. Bradykinin, [Tyr8]bradykinin and B2 receptor antagonists (D-Arg[Hyp3,Thi5,D-Tic7,Oic8]bradykinin (Hoe 140), D-Arg[Tyr3,D-Phe7,Leu8]bradykinin, D-Arg[Hyp3, Leu8]bradykinin, D-Arg[Hyp2, Thi5,8,-Phe7]bradykinin D-Arg[Hyp3, D-Phe7, Leu8]bradykinin, Tyr0, D-Arg[Hyp3, D-Phe7, Leu8]bradykinin inhibited [125I-Tyr8]-bradykinin binding with very high subnanomolar affinities, while the B1 receptor agonist (Tyr0,des-Arg10-kallidin) and antagonist ([Leu8]-des-Arg9-bradykinin) did not significantly affect [125I-Tyr8]bradykinin binding at up to micromolar concentrations. Two weeks after unilateral lumbar dorsal rhizotomy (L1-L6) or peripheral lesions of the sciatic nerve, significant decreases ( +/- 50%) in [125I-Tyr8]bradykinin binding sites were found in ipsilateral laminae I-III of lumbar spinal cord.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The naturally occurring tachykinins, substance P, neurokinin A and neurokinin B, induce the formation of inositol phosphates or cAMP in a variety of tissues but their effects on neurons have not been resolved. We used primary cultures of neonatal rat spinal cord to determine whether neurokinin receptors mediate changes in these second messengers in spinal neurons. We found that substance P, neurokinin A and neurokinin B induced the formation of inositol phosphates in a concentration-dependent manner with similar potencies (EC50S: 3.6, 5.7 and 21.3 nM, respectively), but at concentrations tested (0.1-1.0 microM) these peptides had no effect on cAMP levels. All three tachykinins induced the formation of inositol phosphates predominately by activation of neurokinin1 receptors. CP-96,345 and WIN 51,708, neurokinin1 receptor antagonists, attenuated the response to substance P, neurokinin A and neurokinin B. GR 103,537, a neurokinin2 receptor antagonist, had no effect on the responses induced by any of the tachykinins. Furthermore, the selective neurokinin1 receptor agonist, GR-73632, induced the formation of inositol phosphates in a concentration-dependent manner, whereas the selective neurokinin2 receptor agonist, GR-64349, generated inositol phosphates only at the highest concentration tested (10 microM). Senktide, a neurokinin3 receptor agonist, did not induce the formation of inositol phosphates at any of the concentrations tested (0.01-10 microM). Inositol phosphate formation appeared to be due to a direct effect of the tachykinins on neuronal neurokinin1 receptors. These results suggest that biological responses in spinal neurons following activation of neurokinin1 receptors are mediated mainly by the hydrolysis of phosphoinositol 4,5-bisphosphate to form inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol. It remains to be determined which of these second messengers mediates the increased neuronal excitability and depolarization that occurs in response to substance P.
Synaptic connectivity and other ultrastructural features of cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons in the laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei were investigated with electron microscopy combined with pre-embedding immunohistochemistry for choline acetyltransferase. Quantitative morphometric analyses were conducted on selected immunopositive as well as immunonegative neurons. The ultrastructure of immunoreactive neurons in the laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei was similar. In both nuclei, immunoreactive neurons were among the larger neurons, and somatic areas of immunopositive neurons in single thin sections were larger than those of immunonegative neurons by an average of 40%. Immunopositive somata varied in shape, appearing polygonal, fusiform or oval. Regardless of immunoreactivity, however, neurons in the pedunculopontine nucleus tended to have more irregular shapes than those in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus. Immunoreactive neurons in both the nuclei had abundant cytoplasmic organelles and a large, clear nucleus with a few infoldings. Usually, about a quarter of the surface of an immunopositive soma was covered with astrocytic processes, and some immunopositive somata were directly apposed to an astrocyte. Immunoreactive dendrites and, less frequently, axon terminals were seen in close apposition to endothelial cells of blood capillaries or pericytes. Immunoreactive somata and dendrites in the laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei received many synapses, mainly from unlabelled axon terminals. The mean number (4.7 +/- 1.8) of synapses received by immunolabelled somata in single thin sections was greater, by about 70%, than those received by unlabelled somata. The presynaptic axon terminals synapsing with immunoreactive somata commonly contained small, round and clear vesicles, and 20% of them contained a few dense-cored vesicles as well. Immunoreactive dendrites, in addition, received synapses from unlabelled axon terminals containing flat and clear vesicles, which accounted for 15% of the synapses with immunoreactive dendrites. Many immunopositive axon terminals were present in both the tegmental nuclei. They contained clear round vesicles, and usually synapsed with unlabelled dendrites. A few immunolabelled axons, however, appeared to synapse with immunopositive somata and dendrites. Immunoreactive fibres were also present in both the tegmental nuclei. They were either thinly myelinated or unmyelinated. In conclusion, the ultrastructural morphology of cholinergic neurons in the laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei is similar, and these neurons represent a distinct population of neurons in both nuclei in that they are larger and receive more synaptic contacts than non-cholinergic neurons. Cholinergic neurons, however, appear to receive synapses from cholinergic axon terminals only rarely, despite the abundance of cholinergic terminals in the tegmental nuclei.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
This study reports that lesion of the adult lizard medial cortex (lizard hippocampal fascia dentata) induces a short period of intensive neurogenesis which we have termed reactive neurogenesis; a cell proliferation event that occurs in the subjacent ependyma. Specific lesion of the medial cortex was achieved by intraperitoneal injection of the neurotoxin 3-acetylpyridine and proliferating cells were detected using tritiated thymidine or 5-bromodeoxiuridine pulse labelling. After lesion, granule neurons in the lizard medial cortex cell layer appeared pyknotic and died; they were then removed and progressively replaced by a set of new neurons. These neurons were mostly generated from the second to the seventh day post-lesion. A dramatic temporal increment of labelled ependymal cells was detected when either tritiated thymidine or 5-bromodeoxiuridine pulses were delivered in that period. The maximum of about five thousand labelled cells per hemisphere was reached by the fourth day after the lesion. Beyond the seventh day post-lesion, the numbers of labelled cells returned to a level of about four hundred per hemisphere, similar to that of the control specimens. Electron microscopy revealed that the recently generated cells were neuroblasts or immature neurons with a characteristic pattern of chromatin condensation and a high number of ribonucleic granules.
The spatial distribution, soma size and oxidative enzyme activity of gamma and alpha motoneurons innervating muscle fibres in the deep (away from the surface of the muscle) and superficial (close to the surface of the muscle) portions of the tibialis anterior in normal rats were determined. The deep portion had a higher percentage of high oxidative fibres than the superficial portion of the muscle. Motoneurons were labelled by retrograde neuronal transport of fluorescent tracers: Fast Blue and Nuclear Yellow were injected into the deep portion and Nuclear Yellow into the superficial portion of the muscle. Therefore, motoneurons innervating the deep portion were identified by both a blue fluorescent cytoplasm and a golden-yellow fluorescent nucleus, while motoneurons innervating the superficial portion were identified by only a golden-yellow fluorescent nucleus. After staining for succinate dehydrogenase activity on the same section used for the identification of the motoneurons, soma size and succinate dehydrogenase activity of the motoneurons were measured. The gamma and alpha motoneurons innervating both the deep and superficial portions were located primarily at L4 and were intermingled within the same region of the dorsolateral portion of the ventral horn in the spinal cord. Mean soma size was similar for either gamma or alpha motoneurons in the two portions of the muscle. The alpha motoneurons innervating the superficial portion had a lower mean succinate dehydrogenase activity than those innervating the deep portion of the muscle. An inverse relationship between soma size and succinate dehydrogenase activity of alpha, but not gamma, motoneurons innervating both the deep and superficial portions was observed. Based on three-dimensional reconstructions within the spinal cord, there were no apparent differences in the spatial distribution of the motoneurons, either gamma or alpha, associated with the deep and superficial compartments of the muscle. The data provide evidence for an interdependence in the oxidative capacity between a motoneuron and its target muscle fibres in two subpopulations of motoneurons from the same motor pool, i.e. the same muscle.
Developing motoneurons can be induced to die by target deprivation and there is evidence that this cell death involves the excitotoxic effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate. Treatment with dizocilpine maleate, an antagonist of this receptor, has been shown to rescue a proportion of those motoneurons destined to die following nerve injury at birth. However, this is a relatively toxic compound. In this study we examined whether systemic treatment with magnesium sulphate, a non-competitive antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor which is better tolerated than dizocilpine maleate, could prevent motoneuron death. Motoneurons were induced to die either by sciatic nerve injury at birth or by nerve injury at five days followed by exposure to N-methyl-D-aspartate. The number of surviving motoneurons reinnervating the tibialis anterior and extensor digitorum longus muscles were counted using retrograde labelling. Following nerve injury at birth and treatment with magnesium sulphate, there was a small increase in the survival of injured motoneurons, although this improvement was not significant. Nerve injury at five days does not result in motoneuron death, but when followed by treatment with N-methyl-D-aspartate, only 42 +/- 2.9% of motoneurons to these flexor muscles survived. Treatment with magnesium sulphate prior to injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate significantly increased motoneuron survival, so that 67 +/- 5.8% of motoneurons survived. Thus, systemic treatment with magnesium can prevent the death of motoneurons rendered susceptible to the excitotoxic effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate by nerve injury.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Functional recovery after brain damage has been described frequently and different mechanisms have been proposed to account for the observed recovery. One possible mechanism involves the capacity of one part of the brain to take over the function of another. A possible area for this to take place is in the cerebral cortex, where a variety of reorganizational processes have been described after different manipulations. We show in the present study that the forelimb force and response capacity of the rat, which becomes highly impaired after the bilateral ablation of the forelimb primary motor cortex, is recovered when the animals receive an electrical stimulation in the ventral tegmental nucleus contingent to each forelimb response in the task. Microstimulation mapping of the cortical areas adjacent to the forelimb primary motor cortex revealed the appearance of an area located caudolaterally to the forelimb primary motor cortex, where forelimb movements could be evoked in recovered animals but to a lesser extent in non-recovered animals. A positive and significant correlation was observed between the size of the reorganized forelimb area and the behavioral performance of the animals. Ablation of the forelimb reorganized area in recovered animals reinstated the forelimb behavioral impairment, while the same lesion in normal animals had no effect on the behavioral performance. The results indicate that recovery after bilateral forelimb primary motor cortex ablation may be due to the organization of specific adjacent areas in the cortex.
The goal of these experiments was to use c-Fos immunocytochemistry to determine areas of the female hamster brain that are active during lordosis and aggression. Ovariectomized hamsters were given (i) estradiol and progesterone, plus a lordosis test, (ii) estradiol and progesterone, but no lordosis test, (iii) oil, plus an aggressive behavior test, or (iv) oil, but no behavior test. Results showed that following lordosis, there was increased c-Fos expression in the medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial accumbens, medial preoptic nucleus, paraventricular nucleus and medial amygdala. Following a single aggression test, c-Fos was significantly increased only within the medial amygdala. There was no effect of lordosis or aggression on c-Fos expression within the lateral or central ventromedial hypothalamus, suprachiasmatic nucleus or dorsal midbrain central gray. In a second experiment, ovariectomized female hamsters were given (i) repeated aggressive experience, (ii) a single aggression test or (iii) no aggression test. Because some females were not aggressive towards males, they became a separate group post hoc. The number of cells expressing c-Fos was higher in the medial preoptic nucleus and medial amygdala of females given a single aggressive test and in non-aggressive females vs control females. Females given prior aggressive experience showed higher c-Fos expression only in the medial preoptic nucleus. These results demonstrate that increased neural activation in several forebrain nuclei is seen after sexual or aggressive behaviors in female hamsters. However, because the pattern of c-Fos staining in the non-aggressive females was similar to the pattern in aggressive females, this questions previous conclusions regarding the behavioral specificity of these effects and suggests instead that such activation is common to social interactions in general.
This study demonstrates cholecystokinin receptor plasticity in response to salt-loading in the rat and mouse hypothalamus. It identifies, for the first time, the cholecystokinin receptor subtypes involved, firstly by receptor autoradiography and secondly by in situ hybridization. Both species showed increases in hypothalamic [125I]Bolton Hunter-cholecystokinin-8 binding. Co-incubation with the specific cholecystokininA and cholecystokininB antagonists, devazepide and CI-988, indicated that in the rat cholecystokininB receptor binding markedly increased, with a small increase in cholecystokininA receptor binding. In the mouse the response was comprised solely of cholecystokininA receptors. In situ hybridization studies were carried out on a range of peptide messenger ribonucleic acids after salt-loading. In the rat large increases in hypothalamic gene expression were detected for oxytocin, vasopressin, corticotrophin-releasing factor and preprocholecystokinin. In the mouse only vasopressin messenger ribonucleic acid increased, whilst hypothalamic oxytocin, preprocholecystokinin and corticotropin-releasing factor remained unchanged. However, corticotrophin-releasing factor messenger ribonucleic acid increased in the mouse amygdala. In situ hybridization was performed using oligonucleotide probes specific for either the cholecystokininA or cholecystokininB receptor messenger ribonucleic acid, and this showed good agreement with the receptor autoradiography. CholecystokininB receptor expression was upregulated in the rat hypothalamus along with a small but significant increase in cholecystokininA receptors. In the mouse only cholecystokininA receptor expression was increased. In addition to these molecular changes rats lost about 25% of their body weight during six days of salt-challenge, whilst mice continued to grow in line with controls. This work demonstrates differential changes in cholecystokinin receptor subtype binding between the rat and the mouse. It represents the first report of differential changes in cholecystokininA and cholecystokininB receptor messenger ribonucleic acids within the brain, and shows that cholecystokinin receptors within the rodent hypothalamus are capable of plastic responses to chronic osmotic stress.
The antimitotic drug methylazoxymethanol was used to destroy striatal patch neurons during their three-day-period of neurogenesis in the rat. Single or multiple injections of methylazoxymethanol were given during embryonic days 13-15, the period when patch neurons are known to undergo their final cell division. Methylazoxymethanol treatments produced a dramatic reduction in striatal volume. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed the continued presence of patches of neurons that were substance P-immunoreactive and devoid of calbindin and enkephalin immunoreactivity. Both the number of patches and relative volume occupied by patches was reduced in methylazoxymethanol-treated striata. Patch neurons could also be labelled by an intrastriatal injection of FluoroGold during the first postnatal week. The early ingrowth of nigrostriatal dopamine afferents was less noticeably patchy in the methylazoxymethanol-treated animals, in part owing to an overall increase in density. Large reductions in the number of neurons immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase were observed, whereas NADPH diaphorase-stained neurons were not reduced unless methylazoxymethanol was given on embryonic day 15. Injections of bromo-deoxy-uridine, either during or after the 24 h that each methylazoxymethanol injection was considered to be effective, revealed that (i) some patch neurons continued to be generated in the 24-h period following methylazoxymethanol administration, and (ii) many patch neurons were generated after the effects of methylazoxymethanol had worn off. These findings demonstrate that it was impossible to completely eliminate the patches using methylazoxymethanol injections during the period of patch neurogenesis. However, methylazoxymethanol treatment during this time did produce a dramatic loss of cells and a relatively greater reduction in patch volume. Despite this disruption, the appropriate compartmentalization of neuroactive substances appeared to be maintained.
Current models of basal ganglia disorders suggest that choreoathetosis is the end result of reduced GABAergic inhibition of the motor thalamus. Graft-derived release of GABA from intrastriatal striatal grafts has also been reported. In the present work, cell suspension grafts from embryonic day 14-15 rat striatal primordia were implanted close to the ventromedial thalamic nucleus to investigate whether they can develop and survive in this ectopic location, and whether they induce changes in the circling behaviour of the host. The grafts were implanted either in normal rats or in rats whose striatum had been lesioned with ibotenic acid. These grafts were implanted either ipsilateral or contralateral to the lesioned striatum. Additionally, some rats received intrastriatal grafts, and lesioned but non-grafted rats and lesioned rats that had received injections of saline or of cell suspensions from fetal spinal cord in the thalamus were used as control. Four to eight months after transplantation, circling behaviour after amphetamine or apomorphine injection was evaluated. Serial sections were stained with Cresyl Violet and studied immunohistochemically with antibodies against DARPP-32 (dopamine- and adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein, as striatal marker), Fos protein, glutamate decarboxylase (67,000 mol. wt), glutamate decarboxylase (65,000 mol. wt) and GABA. Cresyl Violet sections showed that the intrathalamic striatal grafts developed into tissue masses resembling those observed in intrastriatal striatal grafts. DARPP-32 immunohistochemistry revealed that the grafts were composed of DARPP-32 immunoreactive (striatum-like) and DARPP-32-negative patches. The intrathalamic grafts of rats which had received a low dose of apomorphine (0.25 mg/kg) 2 h before perfusion showed clusters of intensely Fos-immunoreactive nuclei throughout the transplant, indicating that these cells had developed dopamine receptors and supersensitivity to dopamine agonists. Double Fos and DARPP-32 immunohistochemistry revealed that the Fos-positive nuclei were located in the striatum-like areas. Finally, the intrathalamic grafts also contained neurons immunoreactive to GABA and glutamate decarboxylase (65,000 and 67,000 mol. wt). Rats that had received intrathalamic grafts contralateral to the lesioned striatum (i.e. contralateral to the lesion-induced turning direction) showed a significant reduction of circling both after amphetamine (78% reduction) or apomorphine (77% reduction) injection. Rats that had received grafts ipsilateral to the lesioned striatum showed a 75% decrease in amphetamine-induced circling, but no significant change in apomorphine-induced circling. No significant drug-induced circling was observed in non-lesioned and grafted rats. Sham grafting (saline) or grafting of weakly GABAergic tissue (fetal spinal cord) had no significant effects on lesion-induced circling behaviour.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A stably co-transfected mouse fibroblast cell line, which expresses the long form of the human dopamine D2 receptor and the dog adenosine A2a receptor, was used to analyse the mechanism underlying changes in the cytosolic free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) induced by activation of D2 (long-form) receptors and its modulation by the A2a receptor agonist CGS 21680 by means of fura-2 imaging. Quinpirole (1-1000 nM), a D2 receptor agonist, caused a concentration-dependent increase in [Ca2+]i. Haloperidol, a preferential D2 receptor antagonist, completely blocked this [Ca2+]i response to quinpirole. Preincubation with Ca(2+)-free medium containing 2 mM EGTA or a medium containing 320 mM ethanol, an inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor antagonist, substantially diminished the increase in [Ca2+]i evoked by quinpirole. Furthermore, quinpirole totally failed to elevate [Ca2+]i in a medium containing both 2 mM EGTA and 320 mM ethanol. CGS 21680 (1-500 nM) did not, by itself, exert any significant effect on [Ca2+]i. However, 100 nM of CGS 21680 substantially counteracted the [Ca2+]i responses to quinpirole (10-1000 nM). Moreover, this counteraction still occurred after blocking Ca2+ mobilization from intracellular stores with ethanol, but disappeared when the cells were pretreated with the Ca(2+)-free medium containing 2 mM EGTA. Our findings imply that the D2 (long-form) receptors in the present fibroblast cell line can raise [Ca2+]i both via Ca2+ influx from the extracellular medium and Ca2+ release from intracellular stores via activation of inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Adenosine antagonists potentiate dopamine-mediated behaviours. A2a adenosine and D2 dopamine receptors are abundantly co-expressed within the striatopallidal subset of striatal neurons, suggesting that this is the site of interaction between A2a and D2 receptors. We show that the D2-dependent induction of the immediate early gene c-Fos occurs in striatopallidal neurons 3 h following injection of reserpine (10 mg/kg). We used this paradigm to test whether adenosine antagonists modulate D2-dependent activation of striatopallidal neurons. The non-selective A1-A2 adenosine antagonists theophylline (25 mg/kg) or 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (25 mg/kg) potentiated the effect of a submaximal dose of the D2 dopamine agonist quinpirole (0.05 mg/kg) to prevent the induction of striatal c-Fos following reserpine. Co-administration of the A2a receptor antagonist 8-(3-chlorostyryl) caffeine (5 mg/kg) with quinpirole (0.05 mg/kg) also attenuated striatal c-Fos induction following reserpine to a greater extent than 0.05 mg/kg quinpirole alone. When administered prior to reserpine, theophylline (25 mg/kg) or 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (25 mg/kg) partially attenuate the induction of striatal c-fos. These results demonstrate that systemic administration of adenosine antagonists enhance D2 dopamine receptor-dependent regulation of c-Fos in the striatopallidal pathway. These results support a functional interaction between A2a adenosine and D2 dopamine receptors in striatopallidal neurons.
This paper examines the relation, or &quot;synaptic coding&quot;, between the discharges of inhibitory fibres whose instantaneous firing rate is modulated periodically and pacemaker postsynaptic neurons using crayfish synapses and point process statistics. Several control parameters were varied individually, and the other maintained constant as far as possible: it extends the preceding publication that described the general features and varied only the modulation frequency [Segundo et al. (1995) Neuroscience 68, 657-692]. Statistics were mainly cycle histograms and Lissajous diagrams (with presynaptic and post-synaptic histograms on the abscissae and ordinate, respectively), complemented occasionally by displays of intervals along time and of interval differences along order (&quot;basic graphs&quot; and &quot;recurrence plots&quot;, respectively). The postsynaptic influence of modulated inhibitory discharges is characteristically sensitive to all control parameters examined. (1) The frequency was reported in the companion paper [Segundo et al. (1995) Neuroscience 68, 657-692]. (2) The average slope per half-cycle, controlled via either frequency or depth, acts by way of its magnitude and sign in ways revealed by hysteretic loops. Hysteresis increases and varies as the modulation's steepness increases: it is minor and with a single clockwise loop at small slopes, but major and multi-looped at the larger ones. Slopes, because of their different postsynaptic consequences, were separated into the categories of &quot;steep&quot;, &quot;gentle&quot; and &quot;abrupt&quot; if around, respectively, 1.0, 30.0 and 150.0 s-2. The influence of slopes in restricted portions of the cycle depends on their position on the inhibitory rate scale. (3) The modulation's range acts by way of its depth and of its position on the inhibitory rate scale. Deeper ranges, when compared with the shallower ones they contain, induce effects similar to those of shallower modulations with their central portion, plus effects peculiar to them at extreme rates. Changes in range position from the centre to the extremes of the inhibitory rate scale are influential (e.g., saturations appear). Changes within the centre can be highly influential, particularly when ranges are narrow and close to the postsynaptic natural rate, and modulation frequencies are low: relations between corresponding rates can be linear increasing, linear decreasing or piecewise linear. Changes around extreme rates are negligible, however, and saturations are present. (4) The usual modulations whose individual cycles did not differ from the cycle histogram were compared to others with the same cycle histograms but whose individual cycles had an unpredictable fast variability referred to as &quot;noise&quot;.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Our aim was to examine the relation, or &quot;synaptic coding&quot;, between spike trains across a synapse with inhibitory postsynaptic potentials when the presynaptic rate is modulated periodically and the postsynaptic cell is a pacemaker. Experiments were on the synapse in crayfish stretch receptor organs. Spike trains were considered point processes along time; the time series of corresponding pre- and postsynaptic intervals were extracted. Analyses used displays of intervals along time and order (&quot;basic graphs&quot;, and &quot;rasters&quot;, respectively), displays of differences between intervals along order (&quot;recurrence plots&quot;), cycle histograms (as such and as Lissajous diagrams with presynaptic and postsynaptic on the abscissae and ordinate, respectively), and correlation histograms. Cycle histograms and correlation histograms demonstrated that all presynaptic modulation frequencies (1/60-10 Hz) are reflected postsynaptically; novel frequencies may arise, not always relating simply to the pre- or postsynaptic ones. The transferred frequency domain is broad and physiologically meaningful. Indeed, vitally important functions have strong periodicities in all portions of the explored domain, and so do the discharges of participating neurons. Overall, pre- and postsynaptic discharges change oppositely, one accelerating while the other slows. Locally, however, pre- and postsynaptic discharges contrast clearly in other ways. The presynaptic evolution is everywhere smooth and orderly, half-cycles usually are symmetric, and there is a single kind of discharge, as expected because the presynaptic axon follows well the controlling stimuli. The postsynaptic cycle shows marked local distortions. These involve presynaptic domains called &quot;congruent portions&quot; where changes are in the same sense (e.g., joint accelerations), &quot;saturated&quot; domains where postsynaptic discharges are arrested, and asymmetric sensitivities to presynaptic change with hysteretic loops in the Lissajous diagrams; the postsynaptic discharge is heterogeneous showing dissimilar forms in succession. Congruent portions are either &quot;positive segments&quot; with pre- to postsynaptic rate ratios practically 1:1, 2:1, 1:1, or parts of Lissajous loops. Different modulation frequencies have different postsynaptic consequences. Differences involve the width and number of positive segments, the proportion of the cycle with saturation, the sense, magnitude and lead-lag characteristics of the hysteretic loops, etc. Because their consequences are separable, frequencies are classified within categories labelled &quot;low&quot; (under 0.5 Hz), &quot;high&quot; (between 0.5 and 5.0 Hz) and &quot;very high&quot; (over 5.0 Hz). Categories arise widely but each prevails in different biological functions (e.g., low or high in, respectively, respiration or vibratory sensitivity). The refactoriness of the inhibitory fibre affects how it can be modulated: consequently, the very high category resembles pacemaker discharges and was not analysed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Injection of the &quot;indirect&quot; excitotoxin amino-oxyacetate into the entorhinal area causes acute behavioral seizures and preferential neuronal loss in layer III of the medial entorhinal cortex in rats. We examined here whether the effects of amino-oxyacetate could be duplicated by local injections of the endogenous N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist and direct excitotoxin, quinolinate. Amino-oxyacetate (685 nmol) or quinolinate (30, 45 or 60 nmol) were injected into the entorhinal cortex of rats anesthetized with choral hydrate (360 mg/kg). Separate groups of animals were co-treated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (2 mg/kg) or given a higher dose of chloral hydrate (500 mg/kg). Rats that received amino-oxyacetate and a low anesthetic dose consistently displayed acute behavioral seizures and showed preferential loss of neurons in layer III of the medial entorhinal cortex. Animals that were given quinolinate did not display behavioral seizures, and showed preferential degeneration of neurons in layer V of the entorhinal cortex. Moreover, quinolinate-injected rats frequently exhibited neuronal loss in the superficial layers of the dorsal perirhinal cortex. The behavioral and neuropathological sequelae of amino-oxyacetate, but not quinolinate-induced neurotoxicity, were abolished by prolonged chloral hydrate anesthesia. In spite of these apparent qualitative differences between the two toxins, neurodegeneration induced by either amino-oxyacetate or quinolinate was completely prevented by dizocilpine maleate. These data suggest that a heterogeneous distribution of pharmacologically distinct N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subtypes in the parahippocampal region may underlie the distinct neurodegenerative properties of the two toxins. Since the lesion caused by amino-oxyacetate bears remarkable similarities to neuropathological changes which have been described in this structure in temporal lobe epilepsy, further elucidation of the mechanisms of cellular toxicity of amino-oxyacetate may hold clues for the pathogenesis of this disease.
Slow inhibition was investigated by stimulating inhibitory neurons at the border of stratum radiatum and lacunosum-moleculare with focal microapplications of glutamate, while recording resultant slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in CA1 pyramidal neurons in rat hippocampal slices. The slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials evoked had an average peak amplitude of -2.2 mV, measured at -60 mV. Their peak conductance was 2.5 nS. These events were characterized as slow GABAB inhibitory postsynaptic potentials because they reversed at -90 mV, and were blocked by CGP 35348 (500 microM). Exposure to magnesium-free solutions augmented glutamate-evoked slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Mean peak amplitude and conductance were -3.1 mV and 4.0 nS. Exposure to the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist MK-801 (20 microM) allowed separation of the glutamate-triggered slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential into components induced by non-N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. The N-methyl-D-aspartate component dominated, even under control conditions, and could account for up to 60% of the control slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential. Thus, the activation and recruitment of GABAB-mediated inhibition depend on both non-N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated excitation of inhibitory interneurons. Under physiological conditions slow inhibition may act as an important synaptic filtering mechanism, but when N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated excitation increases, slow inhibition is further recruited, providing an important means to offset excessive excitation.
Homosynaptic long-term depression and long-term potentiation were studied in hippocampal slices from 12-18-day-old rats using field excitatory postsynaptic potentials recorded in the CA1 subfield (stratum radiatum). Independent estimates of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated components of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential were obtained in parallel using early and late measurements of a dual component excitatory postsynaptic potential in a solution containing low (0.1 mM) magnesium and 1 microM of the AMPA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX). Long-term depression, induced by 2 Hz stimulation for 10 min, was observed as an equal relative depression of the AMPA and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated components of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential, whereas long-term potentiation induced by single or repeated high-frequency stimulation, was seen initially as a predominant potentiation of the AMPA receptor-mediated component. Within the first 30-60 min, long-term potentiation gradually changed to more equal increases of the two components of the excitatory postsynaptic potential. During alternating induction of long-term depression and long-term potentiation, the AMPA and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated components could both be repeatedly regulated up and down. Long-term depression and long-term potentiation also showed several signs of interaction with each other during such experiments; e.g., long-term depression removed the occlusive effect of large long-term potentiation on a subsequent long-term potentiation, and long-term potentiation applied after the induction of long-term depression was found to be more stable than otherwise. The results support the notion that long-term depression and long-term potentiation employ changes in a common synaptic property. A tentative mechanism for this modification, expressed as equal changes of AMPA and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated components of the excitatory postsynaptic potential, is an alteration in transmitter release, while the initial asymmetric part of long-term potentiation indicates involvement of an additional short-term modification.
The involvement of Ca release from intracellular stores in the induction of long-term depression and depotentiation of excitatory synaptic transmission was investigated in the rat dentate gyrus using dantrolene, an agent known to block Ca release via the ryanodine receptor. In control slices, low-frequency stimulation (1 Hz for 15 min) induced robust long-term depression of baseline field excitatory postsynaptic potentials and depotentiation of previously established long-term potentiation. Dantrolene (50 microM) was found to block completely both long-term depression of baseline responses and depotentiation. Moreover, long-term potentiation induced by high-frequency stimulation was enhanced in the presence of dantrolene.
Mouse cortical cell cultures exposed to transient oxygen-glucose deprivation developed marked acute cell body swelling followed by neurodegeneration, consistent with necrosis-type death. This death was not attenuated by the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide, but was attenuated by addition of the N-methyl-D-asparate antagonist, MK-801 (dizocilpine maleate), and the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid/kainate antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. If the deprivation insult was extended to overcome the protective effect of glutamate antagonists, neuronal death resulted that was associated with cell body shrinkage and DNA fragmentation, and was attenuated by cycloheximide. These data suggest that oxygen-glucose deprivation can induce in cortical neurons both excitotoxic necrosis, and apoptosis dependent on new macromolecule synthesis.
Hippocampal slices were transiently exposed to an oxygen- and glucose-free environment which causes a pronounced drop of both ATP and creatine phosphate, an anoxic depolarization, and an incomplete recovery of synaptically evoked population spike in the CA1 region after 1 h (48.5 +/- 3.6% of baseline values). This recovery could be markedly enhanced by the application of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists. To examine the influence of metabotropic glutamate receptors on neuronal recovery from hypoxia/hypoglycemia, we applied various antagonists and agonists of the metabotropic glutamate receptors to the bath during the interval from 20 min before to 10 after hypoxia/hypoglycemia. The metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists (+)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine and L-2-3- amino-phosphonopropionic acid were both able to enhance the population spike recovery significantly. However, the mixed metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist 1S,3R-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid also exhibited a protective effect on population spike recovery, leaving the anoxic depolarization and N-methyl-D-aspartate responses during the hypoxia/hypoglycemia untouched. With the help of more subtype-specific agonists, we found that an activation of phospholipase C coupled (class 1) metabotropic glutamate receptors prior to hypoxia/hypoglycemia may be responsible for the protective effect seen with 1S, 3R-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, because the specific class 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist trans-azetidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid appeared to be highly protective, but only if it was applied 20 min before the hypoxia/hypoglycemia. An activation of class 2 metabotropic glutamate receptors by (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-2-(2,3-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine, which inhibits adenylyl cyclase activity, led to a marked deterioration of the population spike recovery and even to a total prevention of the protective effect of the N-methyl-D-aspartate agonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid. Our data suggest that prior activation of class 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors is beneficial, while their activation during hypoxia/hypoglycemia is detrimental. Furthermore, the activation of class 2 metabotropic glutamate receptors decreases the recovery from hypoxia/hypoglycemia.
Morphine infusions into the medial septum produce memory deficits which can be attenuated by concurrent intraseptal injections of glucose. The mnemonic deficits following intraseptal morphine injections may be due, in part, to opioid inhibition of cholinergic neurons projecting to the hippocampus, with glucose reducing the effect. The present experiment determined whether glucose injections into the medial septum attenuate the effects of intraseptal morphine injections on hippocampal acetylcholine release and on memory. Samples of extracellular acetylcholine levels were assessed at 12 min intervals using in vitro microdialysis with high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Intraseptal morphine injections (4.0 nmol) reduced acetylcholine output starting at 12 min and lasting up to 72 min post-injection. Glucose (18.3 nmol) injected concomitantly with morphine reversed the drug infusions in the septum 20 min prior to spontaneous alternation testing. Intraseptal morphine infusions reduced alternation scores; this behavioral effect was reversed by concurrent glucose infusions. The effect of drugs infused into the septal area on spontaneous alternation performance and acetylcholine output were positively correlated. These findings suggest that memory deficits induced by intraseptal morphine injections may result, at least partially, from a decrease in the activity of cholinergic neurons and that this effect is reversed by glucose.
Previous research has shown an increase in tyrosine hydroxylase in the ventral tegmental area following chronic morphine and chronic cocaine treatments. Chronic morphine treatment also increases levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein in this brain region. In the present study, we investigated the effects of infusing neurotropic factors (nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, neurotrophin-4 or ciliary neurotrophic factor) via midline intra-ventral tegmental area cannulae on these biochemical changes. Our studies examined the effects of neurotrophic factor infusion alone, neurotrophic factor infusion followed by morphine treatment, morphine treatment followed by neurotrophic factor infusion, and concurrent neurotrophic factor infusion and cocaine treatment. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which by itself tended to decrease tyrosine hydroxylase levels in the ventral tegmental area, prevented the characteristic increase in tyrosine hydroxylase following morphine and cocaine exposure and reversed the increase in rats pretreated with morphine. Neurotrophin-4 and neurotrophin-3 exerted similar effects. In addition, neurotrophin-4 prevented the morphine-induced increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein. In contrast, ciliary neurotrophic factor infusions alone resulted in an increase in tyrosine hydroxylase levels, with no additional increase induced by morphine or cocaine coadministration. Nerve growth factor alone had no effect on tyrosine hydroxylase or glial fibrillary acidic protein levels and did not affect morphine's ability to induce these proteins. We also looked at the effects of intra-ventral tegmental area infusion of neurotrophic factor on cAMP-dependent protein kinase and adenylyl cyclase activity in the nucleus accumbens, both of which are increased by chronic morphine or cocaine exposure. In general, regulation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase and adenylyl cyclase morphine by neurotrophic factors paralleled effects seen in the ventral tegmental area. Intra-ventral tegmental area infusion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (or neurotrophin-4) alone tended to decrease cAMP-dependent protein kinase and adenylyl cyclase activity in the nucleus accumbens and prevented the morphine-induced increases in these enzymes. These effects were not seen with ciliary neurotrophic factor or nerve growth factor. These studies demonstrate novel interactions within the ventral tegmental area, and its target the nucleus accumbens, between neurotrophic factors and drugs of abuse, which have potentially important implications for the pathophysiology and treatment of drug addiction.
Pharmacological studies suggest that increases and decreases in dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens contribute to positive and negative affective states, respectively. In vivo neurochemical investigations have led to contradictory conclusions, since increases and decreases in dopamine release have been observed in aversive situations. Clinical and experimental observations argue for a hemispheric asymmetry in the processing of appetitive and aversive stimuli. Mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons are part of integrative networks which appear specifically organized in the right and left hemispheres. Dopaminergic neurons may thus be involved in affective processes but in a different manner in the two hemispheres. We tested this hypothesis in the nucleus accumbens of male rats using in vivo voltammetry and a conditioned aversion paradigm to an olfactory stimulus. We found that dopaminergic responses were similar in the two hemispheres following the initial encounter with the stimulus. After conditioning, however, dopaminergic responses to a naturally attractive olfactory stimulus were more elevated in the right nucleus accumbens and responses to an aversive stimulus more marked in the left nucleus. In addition, dopaminergic responses displayed an intraaccumbal regionalization, in particular opposite variations were obtained in the core and shell subterritories in response to the aversive situation. These results may provide new insights in the understanding of the relative contribution of the two hemispheres in affective perception in normal and psychopathological conditions.
Neurons that synthesize nitric oxide from arginine produce stoichiometric amounts of citrulline. We investigated whether nitric oxide-releasing enteric neurons have the capacity to recycle citrulline to arginine and thereby sustain nitrergic neurotransmission. Argininosuccinate synthetase-like immunoreactivity and argininosuccinate lyase-like immunoreactivity, enzymes capable of citrulline to arginine conversion, were both localized in discrete populations of myenteric and submucosal neurons in the canine proximal colon. Argininosuccinate synthetase-like immunoreactivity and argininosuccinate lyase-like immunoreactivity co-localized with neuronal beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase staining, a marker for nitric oxide synthase. The functional significance of argininosuccinate synthetase-like immunoreactivity and argininosuccinate lyase-like immunoreactivity was shown by testing the effects of exogenous citrulline on responses to enteric inhibitory nerve stimulation, which were assessed by measuring contractions, inhibitory junction potentials and electrical slow waves. As shown previously, arginine analogues (L-nitroarginine methyl ester or L-nitroarginine; 100 microM) inhibited nitric oxide-dependent responses, and excess L-arginine restored inhibitory responses. Citrulline alone (0.1-2 mM) had no effect on nitrergic transmission under control conditions, but in the presence of L-nitroarginine methyl ester or L-nitroarginine, citrulline (0.1-2 mM) restored nitrergic transmission in a concentration-dependent manner. Other neutral amino acids (L-serine, L-leucine) did not mimic the effects of citrulline. Taken together, these data suggest that enteric nitrergic neurons have the enzymatic apparatus and functional capability of recycling citrulline to arginine.
Brainstem projections to hypoglossal motoneurons innervating the intrinsic and extrinsic muscles of the tongue were determined using the transneuronal transfer of Herpes simplex virus-1. Injections of Herpes simplex virus-1 into the intrinsic muscles of the anterior tongue, the geniohyoid and styloglossus muscles each produced specific patterns of label within the hypoglossal nucleus that corresponded closely to the distributions of retrogradely labeled neurons produced by similar injections of horseradish peroxidase. With relatively short survival times, Herpes simplex virus-1 injections further labeled neurons in both the brainstem reticular formation lateral to the hypoglossal nucleus and in the nucleus of the solitary tract. Intrinsic lingual muscles injections of Herpes simplex virus-1 labeled reticular formation neurons distributed laterally along the entire anterior-posterior length of hypoglossal nucleus. In contrast, labeled reticular formation neurons in the immediate vicinity of the hypoglossal nucleus following extrinsic muscles injections, were located lateral to intermediate and anterior levels of hypoglossal nucleus. Thus, despite extensive areas of overlap, there was evidence for a differential distribution of pre-hypoglossal reticular formation neurons along the anterior-posterior axis associated with different lingual injections. Most of the overlap occurred anteriorly, at a level where the nucleus of the solitary tract abuts the fourth ventricle. The potential importance of this area is lingual integrative function was further suggested by camera lucida reconstructions that showed overlapping dendritic fields of labeled neurons in the reticular formation and nucleus of the solitary tract. The dendritic fields of other labeled neurons located more rostral and lateral in the reticular formation sometimes extended into the rostral (gustatory) nucleus of the solitary tract and spinal trigeminal nuclei, suggesting possible multisynaptic pathways through which tactile and gustatory information might influence hypoglossal nucleus. Not all injections of Herpes simplex virus-1 produced label in the hypoglossal nucleus. Some injections into the anterior tongue labeled neurons in the reticular formation near the exiting facial nerve, a region containing populations of preganglionic parasympathetic neurons. Other injections, particularly into the extrinsic lingual muscles, labeled brainstem neurons associated with the sympathetic nervous system, e.g. nuclei raphe magnus and pallidus, the rostral ventrolateral reticular formation, and neurons in the A5 region. These patterns of labeled neurons within the brainstem are suggestive of a differential autonomic innervation of the intrinsic and extrinsic muscles of the tongue.
The object of these experiments was to investigate whether noradrenaline is the signal neurotransmitter between the sympathetic nervous system and rat thymocytes. Using immunocytochemistry, evidence was obtained that the rat thymus (thymic capsule, subcapsular region and connective tissue septa) is innervated by noradrenergic varicose axons terminals (tyrosine hydroxylase- and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-immunostained nerve fibres). This innervation is mainly associated with the vasculature and separately from vessels along the thymic tissue septa it branches into the thymic parenchyma. Using electron microscopy, classical synapses between thymocytes and neuronal elements were not observed. The neurochemical study revealed that these nerve terminals are able to take up, store and release noradrenaline upon axonal stimulation in a [Ca2+]o-dependent manner. The release was tetrodotoxin (1 microM)-sensitive, and reserpine pretreatment prevented axonal stimulation to release noradrenaline, indicating vesicular origin of noradrenaline. In addition, it was found that the release of noradrenaline was subjected to negative feedback modulation via presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoreceptors. Using a patch-clamp technique, electrophysiological evidence was obtained showing that noradrenaline inhibits in a concentration-dependent manner outward voltage-dependent potassium (k+) current recorded from isolated thymocytes. Since noradrenergic varicose axon terminals enter the parenchyma thymocytes and the boutons are not in close apposition to their target cells, noradrenaline released from these terminals diffuses away from release site to reach its targets, thymocytes, and to exert its inhibitory effect on voltage-dependent K+ -current. Since K+ channels are believed to be involved in T cell proliferation and differentiation, the modulation of K+ channel gating by noradrenaline released in response to axonal activity suggests that signals from blood-born or locally released hormones and cytokines. In this respect, noradrenaline released from non-synaptic neuronal varicosities and exerting its effect within the radius of diffusion may serve as a chemical link between the sympathetic nervous system and thymocytes and may have physiological and pathological importance in the thymus during stress and inflammatory/immune responses.
The role of excitatory amino acid metabotropic receptors in the regulation of excitability of sympathetic preganglionic neurons was investigated. This study used both conventional intracellular and whole-cell patch clamp techniques to record from sympathetic preganglionic neurons in transverse spinal cord slices of the rat (9-21 days old). The metabotropic receptor agonists (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD) (10-200 microM, superfused for 2-60 s) and quisqualate (1-50 microM, superfused for 2-60 s) induced concentration-dependent depolarizing responses which did not desensitize. These responses were unaffected by the glutamate ionotropic receptor antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX, 10-50 microM), 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX, 10 microM), dizocilpine (MK-801, 10-40 microM), 3-[(R)-2-carboxy-piperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (D-CPP, 10-50 microM) and DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (DL-AP5, 20-100 microM). Depolarizing responses to 1S,3R-ACPD and quisqualate were unaffected by L-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid (L-AP3, 30 microM-1mM) and L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoic acid (L-AP4, 100 microM-1 mM)). The responses to 1S,3R-ACPD and quisqualate were reduced by including the G-protein blocker GDP-beta-S (400 microM) in the patch pipette solution by 77 +/- 2% (mean +/- S.E) of control (n = 3), suggesting that these agonists activate a G-protein-coupled receptor. Metabotropic receptor-mediated responses were maintained in the presence of tetrodotoxin (500 nM), progressively reduced with increased membrane hyperpolarization to around -95 mV and associated with either an increase of 16.5 +/- 2.8% (data from four neurons) in the majority of neurons (n = 22 of 34) or no measurable change (n = 12) in neuronal input resistance. These data suggest that the agonists exert a direct action on 1S,3R-ACPD and quisqualate had several effects on sympathetic preganglionic neuron membrane properties including: inhibition of a slow apamin-insensitive component of the afterhyperpolarization; a reduction in spike frequency adaptation leading to increases in firing frequency from 6.4 +/- 2.8 Hz in control experiments up to 14.7 +/- 3.0 Hz (n = 6 neurons) in the presence of a metabotropic receptor agonist: a broadening of the action potential by 37.5 +/- 6.4% (n = 6 neurons) of control. These observations suggest that the metabotropic receptor-mediated depolarization is due, at least in part, to the reduction of potassium conductances involved in the spike afterhyperpolarisation potential.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Extracellular microelectrode recordings were made from deep spinothalamic tract neurons in the lumbosacral spinal cord of cats anaesthetized with chloralose and paralyzed with gallamine triethiodide. The effects of upper cervical spinal cord stimulation were tested on 43 spinothalamic tract neurons, by stimulation of the ipsilateral dorsolateral funiculus at C3 and rostral C1 using five or six shocks at 333 Hz. The strength of cervical stimulation was adjusted so that the C3 shock was above threshold for antidromic activation of spinocervical tract neurons but the same strength of shock applied at C1 was below threshold for the same neurons. Four of the 43 spinothalamic cells (9%) were not influenced by upper cervical stimulation. The remaining 39 spinothalamic tract cells (91%) were all excited from the upper cervical cord. Twenty-seven of these (63%) were excited more strongly from C3 than from C1, 4 (9%) were excited more strongly from C1 than from C3, and the remaining eight cells (19%) showed no significant differences between their responses to stimulation at C1 and C3. There were no obvious differences between those spinothalamic tract neurons showing differential effects from C1 and C3 and those showing no such effects. The neuronal systems possibly responsible for the differential effects from C3 and C1 on spinothalamic tract neurons are discussed. We conclude that the most likely candidate system for the greater excitation from C3 compared with C1 is the subset of spinocervical tract neurons with axon collaterals in the lumbosacral enlargement and that the spinothalamic tract is a further ascending path, in addition to the postsynaptic dorsal column path, that receives excitatory input from spinocervical axon collaterals. The greater excitation from C1 compared with C3 is interpreted as due to excitation from C1 and a mixture of excitation and inhibition from C3. The responsible neuronal systems seem likely to be either the spinocervical neurons with axon collaterals operating on the spinothalamic tract via inhibitory interneurons, or cells in the lateral cervical nucleus with axons descending to the lumbosacral cord.
By using quantitative autoradiography and highly selective iodinated ligands, we quantified modifications in neuropeptide FF binding sites in the superficial layers (laminae I and II) of the cervical (C6-C8 segments) and lumbar (L3-L5 segments) enlargements in two models: (i) rats neonatally treated with capsaicin; (ii) rat submitted 15 days before to unilateral dorsal rhizotomies. We comparatively analysed the distribution of mu-opioid binding sites in the same animals. We have shown that the [125I]YLFQPQRFamide (neuropeptide FF sites) labelling is not significantly modified following selective damage of fine afferent fibres by neonatal capsaicin treatment. In the cervical and lumbar enlargements, capsaicin-treated/control binding ratios for [125I]YLFQPQRFamide were 0.90 and 0.86, respectively. While unilateral dorsal rhizotomy induced a drastic decrease in [125I]FK-33-824 labelling in the side ipsilateral to the lesion as compared to the intact side of (yielding ratios of 0.29 and 0.31 for cervical and lumbar levels, respectively), [125I]YLFQPQRFamide labelling was not significantly modified, yielding ratios of 0.98 and 0.91 for cervical and lumbar levels, respectively. These data suggest that, in contrast with a majority of mu-opioid receptors, neuropeptide FF receptors are not located on fine primary afferent fibers carrying nociceptive information from the fore- or hindlimb in the rat. This preferential postsynaptic localization, together with the reported &quot;morphine modulating&quot; action of this peptide, support the proposal of a role for neuropeptide FF in intraspinal modulation of nociceptive input.
The effects of moderate and high intrathecal doses of clonidine, an alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist, or a high dose of morphine on sciatic nerve section-induced expression of c-Fos-like immunoreactivity was studied in laminae I and II of the dorsal horn and laminae VIII and IX of the ventral horn of rat lumbar spinal cord. c-Fos-like immunoreactivity was examined by immunohistochemistry in normal rats (group 1), rats implanted with an intrathecal catheter with its tip on the lumbar spinal cord (group 2), injected with 10 micrograms (group 3) or 50 micrograms (group 4) clonidine intrathecally 3 h before being killed. In other groups, saline, 10 or 50 micrograms clonidine or 30 micrograms morphine was injected 1 h before unilateral nerve section, and the expression of c-Fos-like immunoreactivity was examined 2 h after axotomy. Few labeled neurons were found in normal controls. The intrathecal catheter itself caused a significant increase in bilateral c-Fos-like immunoreactivity in spinal dorsal and ventral horn compared to normals. The level of c-Fos-like immunoreactivity after 10 or 50 micrograms intrathecal clonidine was similar as in the intrathecal catheter group. Sciatic nerve section caused a significant ipsilateral increase in c-Fos-like immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn compared to the intact side in rats injected with saline. Pretreatment with 10 or 10 micrograms clonidine did not reduce sciatic nerve section-induced expression of c-Fos-like immunoreactivity, but instead caused a significant bilateral increase in c-Fos-like immunoreactivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Inflammation of the skin induces release and extrasynaptic spread of neuropeptides such as substance P mainly in spinal laminae I and II and causes changes in discharge properties of nociceptive neurons in spinal dorsal horn. To evaluate the role of extrasynaptic substance P we have superfused the spinal cord at recording segment with artificial cerebrospinal fluid or with substance P. A total of 102 multireceptive neurons responding to both noxious and innocuous skin stimulation were recorded in laminae I or II of lumbar spinal dorsal horn in pentobarbital anaesthetized rats. During superfusion with substance P (10 or 100 microM) significant increases of background activities (from 2.2 +/- 0.6 to 8.4 +/- 3.2 imp./s, mean +/- S.E.M.), enlargement of cutaneous receptive fields (from 359.9 +/- 60.4 to 465.5 +/- 77.3 mm2) and enhanced responses to mechanical (from 89.1 +/- 22.7 to 147.0 +/- 27.5 imp./5 s) but not thermal noxious skin stimuli were observed in the 22 neurons tested. Noxious heat-evoked responses and C-fibre-evoked responses were changed in both directions. In 50 other neurons, the coefficients of dispersion of interspike intervals, which is an indicator of burst-like discharges, were significantly reduced (from 60.4 +/- 5.5 to 52.7 +/- 5.3) after application of substance P. Substance P induced oscillations in background activities in 13 of 40 non-rhythmic neurons and depressed oscillations in 2 of 11 neurons. Cross-correlations of discharges of pairs simultaneously recorded neurons were flat (n = 4), or had a central peak (n = 19) or a central trough (n = 2) and were not changed qualitatively by extrasynaptic substance P. Thus, extrasynaptic substance P can modify not only discharge patterns in the spinal dorsal horn.
It has recently been observed that nerve growth factors induces the rapid onset of thermal hyperalgesia, and the more delayed onset of mechanical hyperalgesia when administered to mature rats. Though several mechanisms have been proposed to explain this phenomenon, it is still not well understood. Previous studies have shown that nerve growth factor can directly excite nociceptive sensory ganglion neurons in culture via activation of kappa excitatory opioid receptors. The possible involvement of these excitatory opioid receptors in mediating the hyperalgesia was investigated. Nerve growth factor-induced thermal hyperalgesia in rodents was prevented by co-administration of the non-selective opiate antagonist naloxone, as well as by the kappa-selective antagonist nor-binaltorphimine. Addition of the long-acting opioid antagonist, naltrexone, partially prevented mechanical hyperalgesia. Administration of low dose dynorphin to mice (a selective kappa-receptor agonist) mimicked the hyperalgesia effects of nerve growth factor. Opiate antagonists and anti-nerve growth factor antibody both interfered with Freund's adjuvant-induced inflammatory hyperalgesia. Altogether, these observations suggest that activation of excitatory opioid receptors plays a role in mediating nerve growth factor-induced hyperalgesia and that, in turn, nerve growth factor contributes to the hyperalgesia associated with inflammatory states. Since opioid receptor antagonists are well tolerated clinically, they may be useful for patients receiving nerve growth factor as part of ongoing trials of the factor in peripheral neuropathy.
The cellular expression of the genes encoding the neuropeptides enkephalin and substance P were examined in the caudate nucleus and putamen of parkinsonian 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated cynomolgus monkeys by in situ hybridization using radioactive antisense oligonucleotides coupled with computer-assisted image analysis. Behavioural evaluation of the animals revealed two levels of motor impairment; one group moderately impaired and the other severely disabled. A marked increase in the cellular content of preproenkephalin A messenger RNA was observed in medium-sized (106 +/- 9 microns2) cells in the caudate-putamen of all MPTP animals when compared with controls, the increase being greatest in the most severely impaired animals. By contrast, a marked reduction in the cellular abundance of preprotachykinin gene expression was detected in striatal cells (101 +/- 16 microns2) of these same MPTP animals. These changes in neuropeptide gene expression were not associated with a change in the density (approximately 10 cells per mm2) of messenger RNA-expressing cells. L-DOPA treatment of two of the severely-impaired MPTP monkeys resulted in a dissociation of expression of these two genes: the cellular abundance of preproenkephalin A remained elevated whilst preprotachykinin levels were normalized and comparable with controls. No change in the cellular abundance of preprotachykinin messenger RNA was observed in cells of the insular cortex or a small discrete population of large cells (208 +/- 27 microns2) in the ventral putamen. These results demonstrate that MPTP treatment of primates results in a marked potentiation in preproenkephalin messenger RNA coupled with a attenuation in preprotachykinin messenger RNA in the dopamine-denervated caudate-putamen. L-DOPA therapy given on an intermittent schedule reverses the decrease in preprotachykinin messenger RNA, but fails to reverse the increase in preproenkephalin messenger RNA in the same animal. These observations suggest that a dissociation of the activity of these two neuropeptide systems may underlie the improvement in motor skill that accompanies dopamine replacement therapy and that this dissociation may be instrumental in the long-term complications associated with L-DOPA therapy.
Oestrogen has many direct or indirect actions upon the magnocellular system of the hypothalamus. We have examined the possibility of acute actions of oestrogen upon the magnocellular system by stimulating slices of supraoptic nucleus in vitro with various concentrations of oestrogen, for varying lengths of time, and assessing the intrahypothalamic release of oxytocin and vasopressin under these conditions. Slices were stimulated in the presence of tannic acid, which precipitates extracellular protein and thereby stabilizes exocytosed neurosecretory granule cores. Stimulation for 5 or 20 min of slices of hypothalamus containing the supraoptic nuclei with 2.66 nM-26.6 microM 17 beta-oestradiol benzoate caused the exocytosis of granules from both dendrites and cell bodies of the magnocellular neurons; exocytosis from the dendrites predominated. Granules of both oxytocin- and vasopressin-producing cells were exocytosed to a similar extent. The incidence of exocytosis of both hormones after stimulation by oestrogen was significantly higher than after exposure either to physiological saline or to 17 alpha-oestradiol, but significantly lower than after stimulation by 56 mM potassium. The various doses of steroid and durations of stimulation all resulted in similar amounts of captured exocytosis. Furthermore, the oestradiol-induced release was not inhibited by removal of extracellular calcium, whereas the potassium-stimulated release was abolished. Exposure for 20 min to either testosterone or progesterone did not induce intranuclear release of significant numbers of neurosecretory granules from the magnocellular neurons. In contrast to its effect on the hypothalamus, 26.6 microM oestradiol for either 20 min or 5 min did not induce exocytosis of neurosecretory granules from the posterior pituitary. We conclude that oestrogen can exert acute non-genomic actions on the magnocellular neurons to promote intrahypothalamic release of oxytocin and vasopressin. This effect is probably direct on the magnocellular neurons as it is not dependent on external calcium. Such actions may be important in the development of the functional and morphological plasticity of the magnocellular system that occurs in parturition and lactation.
During early embryonic development, the olfactory placode is the source of different cell types migrating toward the telencephalic vesicle. Among these cell types are the ensheathing cells, the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-producing cells and the olfactory marker protein-immunoreactive cells. We have identified a novel group of olfactory placode-derived migratory cells using an antibody against beta-tubulin to label neurons and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry to label posmitotic cells. In this paper we describe the morphology, migration and fate of this novel group of cells. The first neurons detected in the rostral prosencephalon with acetylcholinesterase and anti-beta-tubulin antibody are localized in the olfactory placodes at embryonic day 11 in the rate. At embryonic day 12, anti-beta-tubulin antibody-positive cells were observed in the mesenchymal tissue between the olfactory pit and the rostral pole of the telencephalic vesicle. Anti-beta-tubulin antibody-positive cells were seen running superficially over the pial (dorsal) side of the telencephalic vesicle at embryonic day 13. The majority of these cells have a bipolar profile with short leading and trailing processes, suggesting that they are migratory elements. However, some of these cells showed elaborate processes extending for quite long distances, overlying the pial surface of the telencephalic vesicle. A mass of cells extending over the telencephalic vesicle from the developing olfactory epithelium were observed at embryonic day 13 using acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. Some of these acetylcholinesterase-positive cells were identified as neurons with the specific neuronal marker anti-beta-tubulin antibody. On embryonic day 12, neurons from the olfactory epithelium send axonal fibers toward the telencephalic vesicles. Most of these fibers spread over the anteroventral pole of the vesicles but others entered deep into the telencephalon, reaching the germinal ventricular zone. We also show that fibers run rostrocaudally over the surface of the telencephalic vesicles. We suggest that these cells and fibers, apparently originating in the olfactory placode and migrating through non-conventional routes, might play a significant role in the earliest stages of telencephalic vesicle development.
The concentrations of inorganic cations (K+, Na+, and Ca2+) bathing the isolated frog labyrinth were varied in order to assess their role in influencing and mediating synaptic transmission at the hair cell-afferent fiber synapse. Experiments employed intracellular recordings of synaptic activity from VIIIth nerve afferents. Recordings were digitized continuously at 50 kHz, and excitatory postsynaptic potentials were detected and parameters quantified by computer algorithms. Particular attention was focused on cationic effects upon excitatory postsynaptic potential frequency of occurrence and excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude, in order to discriminate between pre- and postsynaptic actions. Because the small size of afferents preclude long term stable recordings, alterations in cationic concentrations were applied transiently and their peak effects on synaptic activity were assessed. Increases in extracellular K+ concentration of a few millimolar produced a large increase in the frequency of occurrence of excitatory postsynaptic potentials with little change in amplitude, indicating that release of transmitter from the hair cell is tightly coupled to its membrane potential. Increasing extracellular Na+ concentration resulted in an increase in excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude with no significant change in excitatory postsynaptic potential frequency of occurrence, suggesting that the transmitter-gated subsynaptic channel conducts Na+ ions. Decreases in extracellular Ca2+ concentration had little effect upon excitatory postsynaptic potential frequency, but increased excitatory postsynaptic potential frequency and amplitude. These findings suggest that at higher concentrations Ca2+ act presynaptically to prevent transmitter release and postsynaptically to prevent Na+ influx during the generation of the excitatory postsynaptic potential. The influences of these ions on synaptic activity at this synapse are remarkably similar to those reported at the vertebrate neuromuscular junction. The major differences between these two synapses are the neurotransmitters and the higher resting release rate and higher sensitivity of release to increased K+ concentrations of the hair cells over that of motor nerve terminals. These differences reflect the functional roles of the two synapses: the motor nerve terminal response in an all-or-nothing signal consequent from action potential invasion, while the hair cell releases transmitter in a graded fashion, proportionate to the extent of stereocilial deflection. Despite these differences between the two junctions, the similar actions of these elemental cations upon synaptic function at each implies that these ions may participate similarly in the operations of other synapses, independent of the neurotransmitter type.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of norepinephrine on the low- and high-voltage-activated calcium channels in the neurons acutely dissociated from the nucleus tractus solitarius of 2- to 3-week-old rats were investigated in the nystatin perforated patch recording configuration under voltage-clamp conditions. The norepinephrine had no effect on the low voltage-activated calcium channel but inhibited the high voltage-activated calcium channel in a concentration-, time- and voltage-dependent manner. The norepinephrine slowed the activation phase of the high voltage-activated calcium channel current and the maximum inhibition was 30% of the total current amplitude measured 10 ms after the current activation. The inhibitory effect was eliminated by applying larger depolarizing prepulses. The pretreatment with pertussis toxin completely blocked the norepinephrine effect on high-voltage activated calcium channels, suggesting the contribution of pertussis toxin-sensitive Gi/Go-proteins to the norepinephrine-induced inhibition. Yohimbine but not prazosin nor propranolol antagonized the norepinephrine-induced inhibition, suggesting the involvement of alpha 2-adrenoceptor in norepinephrine-induced inhibition of the high voltage-activated calcium channels. omega-Conotoxin-GVIA, omega-agatoxin-IVA, nicardipine and omega-conotoxin-MVIIC blocked the high voltage-activated calcium channel current by 26, 9, 36 and 11% of the total current respectively, suggesting the existence of N-, P-, L- and Q-type calcium channels in the nucleus tractus solitarii neurons. The current being insensitive to these calcium channel antagonists, termed R-type calcium channel current, also existed. This residual R-type calcium channel was completely blocked by adding 200 microM CD2+. The norepinephrine significantly inhibited N- and P-type calcium channels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Whole-cell current-and voltage-clamp recordings were made from deep nuclear neurons in cerebellar slices from seven- to nine-day-old rats. Baclofen, a GABAB agonist, produced a slow postsynaptic hyperpolarization associated with a decrease in input resistance. The hyperpolarization was G-protein-dependent, blocked by intracellular Cs+ and antagonized by CGP 35348, a GABAB antagonist. In dialysed neurons recorded with Cs+ -containing pipettes, baclofen suppressed deep nuclear neuronal inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and inhibitory postsynaptic currents evoked by electrical stimulations of the Purkinje cell axons. This effect was blocked by CGP 35348, indicating that the suppressions were mediated by presynaptic GABAB receptors. The inability of CGP 35348 or uptake inhibitors (nipecotic acid and NO-711) to alter the decay of inhibitory postsynaptic currents evoked by maximal stimulation suggested that GABAB receptors are not activated by the stimulation of the GABAergic input. Paired-pulse depression of inhibitory postsynaptic currents was not blocked by CGP 35348. Moreover, neither uptake inhibitors nor CGP 35348 produced any significant changes to the whole-cell current produced by a tetanic stimulation of Purkinje cell axons, suggesting that GABAB autoreceptors were also not activated by endogenous GABA release. Our findings indicate that while pre- and postsynaptic GABAB receptors are present in the deep nuclei of the rat cerebellum, they are not activated by electrical stimulation of the Purkinje cell axons.
We investigated the electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of morphologically identified and putative interneurons within laminae A and A1 of the cat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus maintained in vitro. These intralaminar interneurons possess unique electrophysiological characteristics, including (1) action potentials of a short duration (average width at half amplitude of 0.34 ms). (2) the ability to generate high-frequency trains of action potentials exceeding 500 Hz, without strong spike frequency adaptation, and (3) a low-threshold regenerative response with variable magnitude of expression, ranging from a subthreshold depolarization towards the generation of one to several action potentials in different cells. The low-threshold regenerative depolarization following a hyperpolarizing current pulse was increased in size by application of 4-aminopyridine, was reduced by nickel, and was not influenced by extracellular cesium. These findings indicate that this event is mediated by an underlying Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism, such as a low-threshold Ca(2+) current, that is regulated by the activation of opposing transient K+ currents. Every interneuron tested responded to glutamate, kainate, quisqualate, or N-methyl-D-aspartate with depolarization and action potential discharge. In contrast, we did not observe a postsynaptic response to activation of the metabotropic receptors with 1S,3R-(+/-)-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate. Application of gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA) strongly inhibited spike firing through a biphasic hyperpolarization and increase in membrane conductance, a response that reversed close to the presumed chloride equilibrium potential and was imitated by the GABAA receptor agonist muscimol. The GABAB receptor agonist baclofen evoked only a weak membrane hyperpolarization from rest and suppression of spontaneous spike activity. Application of acetylcholine, or the muscarinic agonist acetyl-beta-methylcholine, inhibited spontaneous action potential activity through hyperpolarization of the membrane potential, presumably resulting from an increase in membrane potassium conductance. In contrast, application of serotonin only slightly facilitated tonic activity in a subpopulation of interneurons, histamine induced a small slow depolarization apparently through activation of presynaptic excitatory pathways, and noradrenaline and adenosine had no detectable effect on the spontaneous firing or resting potential of interneurons. We suggest that intralaminar interneurons may function in a relatively linear manner to transform retinal and cortical inputs into a local field of inhibition in the dorsal lateral geniculate and that the excitability of these neurons is largely controlled by retinal, cortical, GABAergic, and cholinergic (brainstem) afferents.
The possibility that elevation of serotonin in the circulation, which is found in various pathological states, influences the spontaneous cerebral cortical activity was examined in a rat model. The electroencephalogram was recorded using bipolar epidural electrodes placed over the frontal and parietal cerebral cortex. Intravenous infusion of serotonin (10 micrograms/kg per min for 10 min) decreased the electroencephalogram amplitude in both frontal and parietal recordings within 4 min of infusion. This decrease in amplitude was reversible, Pretreatment with cyproheptadine (a potent serotonin2 receptor antagonist) prevented the serotonin-induced decrease of the electroencephalogram amplitude. The blood-brain barrier permeability to Evans Blue and [131I]sodium was increased in frontal and parietal cortex. This increase in blood-brain barrier permeability was absent in animals pretreated with cyproheptadine. These results provide direct evidence that an elevated level of serotonin in blood has the capacity to influence spontaneous cortical electrical activity. This effect of serotonin on electroencephalogram appears to be due to its ability to enter into the brain parenchyma by inducing a short-term breakdown of the blood-brain barrier, probably via serotonin2 receptors.
The immunocytochemical localization of the immediate-early gene c-fos has been used to map sites of neuronal activity in the rat brain associated with 5-hydroxytryptamine function. Behavioural studies have shown that brain 5-hydroxytryptamine function is increased by treatment of animals with a combination of the 5-hydroxytryptamine precursor L-tryptophan (100 mg/kg) and the monoamine inhibitor tranylcypromine (20 mg/kg). We now report that such treatment induces a specific anatomical pattern of expression of c-fos in rat forebrain in many limbic, striatal and cortical areas which corresponds well with the distribution of 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive terminals. To investigate further the involvement of 5-hydroxytryptamine in this response, we pretreated animals with the tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor p-chlorophenylalanine and observed the effects on Fos-like immunoreactivity after L-tryptophan and tranylcypromine challenge. Two-day pretreatment with p-chlorophenylalanine (300 mg/kg) prior to tranylcypromine and L-tryptophan resulted in a significant attenuation of Fos-like immunoreactivity in specific brain areas, including the piriform and frontal cortices, nucleus accumbens, caudate-putamen, paraventricular hypothalamus and paraventricular thalamic nucleus. A marked reduction of the hyperactivity syndrome was also seen, as has been reported in earlier studies. The results of this study suggest that the elevation in Fos-like immunoreactivity following treatment with tryptophan and a monoamine oxidase inhibitor is mainly due to increased 5-hydroxytryptamine synthesis and release. It is well known that 5-hydroxytryptamine mediates mood and affect, and this study indicates potential brain loci of action of serotonergic drugs.
Recent neuroanatomical data suggest that the axons and terminals of serotonergic neurons of the dorsal and median raphe nuclei are morphologically and pharmacologically distinct. Here we attempted to establish a functional in vivo model of serotonergic terminals derived from these nuclei, and then carry out a preliminary comparison of their physiological and pharmacological properties. Brain microdialysis was used to monitor extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine in the hippocampus (dorsal and median raphe innervation) and frontal cortex (preferential dorsal raphe innervation) of the anaesthetized rat. To distinguish 5-hydroxytryptamine released by terminals of dorsal raphe neurons from that released by median raphe neurons, one or other of these nuclei was stimulated electrically. Electrical stimulation of either the dorsal or median raphe nucleus evoked a release of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the hippocampus. Whereas stimulation of the dorsal raphe nucleus also released 5-hydroxytryptamine in the frontal cortex, stimulation of the median raphe nucleus did not. No release of 5-hydroxytryptamine was evoked when electrodes were located in regions bordering the dorsal raphe nucleus and the median raphe nucleus. The amounts of hippocampal 5-HT released by stimulation of the dorsal or median raphe nucleus were found to be similarly altered by a 5-hydroxytryptamine uptake inhibitor (citalopram) and calcium-free perfusion medium, and also by increasing stimulation frequency (2-10 Hz). Furthermore, the amount of 5-hydroxytryptamine released by electrical stimulation of either the dorsal raphe nucleus or median raphe nucleus was markedly reduced in rats pretreated with p-chloroamphetamine. In summary, our data show that electrical stimulation of the dorsal or median raphe nucleus releases 5-hydroxytryptamine in a regionally specific manner (hippocampus versus frontal cortex), suggesting that serotonergic nerve terminals of the dorsal and median raphe pathways were being activated selectively. Using this model, we found no differences in the responsiveness of dorsal and median raphe pathways to a specific set of physiological and pharmacological manipulations. In particular, our data suggest that the neurotoxic action of p-chloroamphetamine may not be targeted solely on serotonergic axons and terminals of the dorsal raphe nucleus but includes those of the median raphe nucleus.
Clinical and experimental data indicate that damage to the cerebellar vermis results in permanent loss of saccadic accuracy. Models of saccade production therefore need to provide a role for the cerebellum. It has been proposed that the vermis adjusts the gain of the saccadic internal feedback loop in response to information about the amplitude of the intended saccade. A model of how the fastigial nuclei (through which vermal output is channelled) influence brainstem saccadic circuitry to achieve this effect was constructed in three stages. (1) The brainstem was represented by a version of Robinson's internal feedback model, which relates excitatory burst neuron discharge to horizontal saccade dynamics. (2) The original model was lesioned to simulate the effects of bilateral inactivation of the fastigial nuclei, namely slow hypermetric saccades. This required reducing the synaptic weight of the internal feedback pathway, and lowering the gain of the excitatory burst neurons. The resultant brainstem-only model served as a preparation for testing the effects of neuronal discharge patterns within the fastigial nuclei. (3) These discharge patterns were simulated using measurements from recent electrophysiological studies. It was found that saccadic accuracy and normal dynamics were restored in the model if the simulated burst from neurons in the contralateral fastigial nucleus were subtracted from the feedback signal (i.e. added to the command signal) early in the saccade, and the burst from neurons in the ipsilateral fastigial nucleus were added to the feedback signal later in the saccade. This pattern corresponds to the observed timing of neuronal bursts in the fastigial nuclei, and accounts qualitatively for the effects of unilateral stimulation and inactivation of both the fastigial nuclei and the cerebellar vermis. This method of producing accurate saccades also contributes to time optimal control, by increasing both saccadic acceleration and deceleration. Appropriate timing of burst onset and duration in the fastigial nuclei is essential for these roles. Evidence concerning the effects of cerebellar damage on fast movements of other parts of the body suggests that the cerebellum may use similar strategies for controlling a wide range of simple movements.
The relation between intracellular and extracellular [Na+] and [Ca2+] and membrane potential during stimulation of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors has been studied in cerebellar granule cells using the fluorescent indicators SBFI, fura-2 and the bisoxonol membrane potential probe DiBaC4(3). Kainate increased both [Ca2+]i (intracellular [Ca2+]) and [Na+]i (intracellular [Na+]) and depolarized the membrane. This elevation of [Ca2+]i was only partially dependent on the presence of extracellular Na+ at the time of kainate addition. Removal of extracellular Na+ itself had a very minor effect on the [Ca2+]i or membrane potential of unstimulated cells. If extracellular Na+ was removed (in order to reverse the [Na+] gradient) or its concentration reduced during stimulation with kainate, the membrane depolarization recovered as expected. However, the intracellular level of sodium recovered only very slowly and the [Ca2+]i rose sharply, rather than recovering as might be expected on repolarization of depolarized cells possessing voltage sensitive calcium channels. This effect of extracellular [Na+] reduction on [Ca2+]i was mimicked by ouabain, another agent that causes accumulation of [Na+] in cells. These results suggest that Na+/Ca2+ exchange may play a major role in calcium homeostasis in stimulated cells, and that the levels of Na+ inside and outside the cell are critical in determining the effect of receptor stimulation on the intracellular [Ca2+].
We have developed a stroke model involving middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat which elicits changes in cardiac and autonomic variables that are similar to those observed clinically. It is likely that these neurogenic autonomic responses are mediated by changes in neurotransmitter systems subsequent to the stroke. This possibility was investigated by examining changes in immunohistochemical staining for tyrosine hydroxylase, neuropeptide Y, leu-enkephalin, neurotoxins and dynorphin following middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat. Computerized image analysis was used to provide semi-quantitative measurements of the changes. The ischemic region was centered primarily in the insular cortex. The results indicate that there are significant increases in immunostaining for tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y in the insular cortex within the peri-infarct region. Neuropeptide Y staining was also significantly increased in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala, ipsilateral to the middle cerebral artery occlusion, which did not appear to be included in the infarct. Leu-enkephalin, neurotensin and dynorphin staining was significantly elevated in the central nucleus of the amygdala ipsilateral to the occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. These neurochemical changes are discussed as possible mechanisms mediating the cardiac and autonomic consequences of stroke or as part of a process to provide neuro-protection following focal cerebral ischemia.
Cortical pyramidal neurons in several types of neuronal storage diseases have been shown by Golgi staining to sprout axon hillock-associated dendritic processes. Based on the relative incidence of this ectopic dendritogenesis, and on quantitative analyses of gangliosides in these same tissues, it has been proposed that abnormal accumulation of a specific metabolic product, GM2 ganglioside, is the pivotal event leading to re-initiation of dendritic sprouting [Siegel D. A. Walkley S.U. (1994) J. Neurochem. 62, 1852-1862]. In the present study, a monoclonal antibody was used to determine the cellular location of this ganglioside within the cerebral cortex of animal models of storage diseases with and without ectopic dendrite growth. Diseases exhibiting ectopic dendritogenesis included inherited and swainsonine-induced (juvenile-onset) alpha-mannosidosis, mucopolysaccharidosis type I, Niemann-Pick disease type C, and GM1 and GM2 gangliosidosis. Conditions lacking ectopic dendrite growth included adult-onset swainsonine-induced alpha-mannosidosis, fucosidosis, neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (Batten disease) and normal, mature brain. Immunocytochemical staining for GM2 ganglioside indicated that diseases exhibiting new dendritic sprouting with the exception of GM1 gangliosidosis, exhibited abundant GM2-like immunoreactivity within the cortical pyramidal cell population, whereas diseases without dendritic sprouting had GM2-like immunoreactivity limited to glia and/or to non-pyramidal neurons. Cortical tissues from normal animals at comparable ages and processed by similar procedures exhibited occasional glial cell staining but little or no neuronal labelling. Mechanisms by which normal cortical pyramidal regulate dendritic initiation are poorly understood. However, it is known that this event is developmentally restricted, occurring only during early brain development.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
cis-Unsaturated fatty acid, which activates protein kinase C in vitro, stimulates protein phosphorylation in intact hippocampal slices. Two protein bands (44,000 and 47,000 mol. wt) are particularly sensitive to cis-fatty acid and are phosphorylated in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The cis-fatty acid-stimulated protein phosphorylation can be further potentiated with diacylglycerol or 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate. Several lines of evidence indicate that the cis-fatty acid-stimulated phosphorylation of these proteins is mediated by protein kinase C. First, the cis-fatty acid effect is mimicked by other protein kinase C activators such as diacylglycerol. Second, the stimulation of the phosphorylation by these activators can be blocked by staurosporine, which potently inhibits protein kinase C. Third, a concomitant application of cis-fatty acid and diacylglycerol or 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate enhances the 44,000 and 47,000 mol. wt phosphorylation in a synergistic manner, which is a novel activation mode for protein kinase C. Fourth, they can be phosphorylated by purified protein kinase C (type III: alpha). Moreover, the synergistic activation of purified protein kinase C by cis-fatty acid and diacylglycerol leads to a drastic increase in the phosphorylation of these two protein bands. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and immunoblot analysis revealed that they are both acidic proteins. The 47,000 mol. wt band consists of two protein components; one is found to be F1/growth-associated protein-43 (pI = 4.5), and the other 47,000 mol, wt protein has broad pI ranging from 4.6 to 4.9. The 44,000 mol. wt component is a major phosphoprotein with pI of 4.8-5.1. Our results strongly indicate that cis-fatty acid can act as a regulator of endogenous protein kinase C in concert with diacylglycerol, and stimulate protein phosphorylation of its substrates such as F1/growth-associated protein-43 in the hippocampus.
The change in the subcellular distribution of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II was studied in the rat hippocampus following normothermic and hypothermic transient cerebral ischemia of 15 min duration. A decrease in immunostaining of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II was observed at 1 h of reperfusion which persisted until cell death in the CA1 region. In the CA3 and dentate gyrus areas immunostaining recovered at one to three days of reperfusion. The CA2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II was translocated to synaptic junctions during ischemia and reperfusion which could be due to a persistent change in the intracellular calcium ion homeostasis. The expression of the messenger RNA of the alpha-subunit of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II decreased in the entire hippocampus during reperfusion, and was most marked in the dentate gyrus at 12 h of reperfusion. This decrease could be a feedback downregulation of the mRNA due to increased Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activation. Intraischemic hypothermia protected against ischemic neuronal damage and attenuated the ischemia-induced decrease of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II immunostaining in all hippocampal regions. Hypothermia also reduced the translocation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II and restored Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II alpha messenger RNA after ischemia. The data suggest that ischemia leads to an aberrant Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II mediated signal transduction in the CA1 region, which is important for the development of delayed neuronal damage. Hypothermia enhances the restoration of the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II mediated cell signalling.
In the last decade of the 18th century, Franz Joseph Gall of Vienna invented a combination of physiognomy and brain localization that he originally called &quot;craniology&quot; (the science of the head) and later called &quot;organology&quot; (the science of the organs of the brain). Between 1800 and 1812, he worked with Johann Christoph Spurzheim on a variety of important neuroanatomic studies to support this new science. By 1812, when they parted company in Paris, Spurzheim had become intrigued with the psychosocial potential of the undertaking, which he renamed &quot;phrenology&quot; (the science of the mind). Because a phrenological examination (palpation of skull prominences) could provide an analysis of a person's strengths and weaknesses, Spurzheim thought that his system could lead to personal improvement for everyone, including the laboring classes. He was thus a 19th century reformer, generally on the liberal side of the political and social spectrum. Spurzheim spread his gospel to Britain through several long lecture tours, and phrenology became briefly popular through the efforts of other British reformers, especially George Combe. In 1832, Spurzheim came to the United States. Three months later, he died in Boston, a martyr to his cause. Phrenology then spread widely into American popular culture, encouraged by the entrepreneurial efforts of &quot;the phrenological Fowlers&quot; and others like them. By 1843, the entire Western scientific community rejected organology and phrenology. All forms of cerebral localization were lumped with phrenology and similarly repudiated. Nonetheless, Gall's organology was the first comprehensive, premodern statement of a theory of cerebral localization. The early pioneers of modern localization, especially Paul Broca and David Ferrier, were careful to define how their theories differed from phrenology, even as they provided the clinical and scientific data that confirmed some of its basic tenets.
The significant factors in the development of the neurosurgery program at the University of Florida have been the funding for 10 endowed chairs and a Brain Institute, the achievement of departmental status in the College of Medicine, the collaborative research with a strong Department of Neuroscience, and the strong commitment by the faculty to subspecialty neurosurgery and to service in the national neurosurgical organizations.
It is generally thought by neurosurgeons that when temporary clipping of a major cerebral vessel is necessary during aneurysm surgery, repeated short periods of cerebral ischemia are safer for the brain than a single long episode. This study was performed to investigate whether repetitive short episodes of cerebral ischemia would alter the resulting brain injury as compared with a single long period of ischemia in a rat model for focal cerebral ischemia. Middle cerebral artery occlusion and reperfusion were performed by the intraluminal thread technique. The experimental design consisted of a single 90-minute occlusion period in the continuous ischemia group versus three 30-minute occlusion periods with 15-minute reperfusion periods in the repetitive group. Local cerebral blood flow was measured by the hydrogen clearance technique. During the ischemic period, local cerebral blood flow values significantly decreased in both the continuous and the repetitive groups. Cerebral blood flow restoration was demonstrated after each episode of reperfusion in both groups. The neurological status scores 2 hours after surgery in the rats subjected to repetitive insults were significantly better compared with those in the rats of the continuous ischemia group. However, the scores on Days 1, 3, and 7 did not show a significantly better difference. The animals were killed 7 days after the induction of ischemia for the measurement of the infarction area under the microscope. The total area of infarction was significantly reduced (4.05 +/- 4.56 versus 47.2 +/- 37.3 mm2, P &lt; 0.001) by interruption of the ischemic time period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The concentrations of the catecholamine neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2,3,6-tetrahydropridine (MPTP) and its oxidized metabolite 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine (MPP+) were determined by liquid chromatography in various regions of brains from NMRI and C57 BL/6 mice and from Sprague-Dawley rats after systemic administration of MPTP. Peak levels of MPTP were reached within 5 min after i.v. injections, and the substance was not detectable after 20-30 min. The MPP+ levels peaked between 20-40 min, while the elimination differed between regions. The tissue concentration of MPP+ appeared not to be the determining factor for vulnerability of dopamine and noradrenaline neurons to MPTP, equal concentrations of MPP+ were found in regions showing marked as well as no neurotoxic effects of MPTP. High concentrations of MPP+ were detected in striatum of rats in spite of the absence of degenerative effects. By studying the dose-response of the acute MPTP-induced depletion of 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC), it was confirmed that MPTP does enter the brain of all species. Neither previous lesions of catecholamine terminals in striatum or the frontal cortex, nor pretreatment with a dopamine uptake blocker affected the synthesis of MPP+, showing that the conversion of MPTP to MPP+ is taking place outside both dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons. It is concluded that MPTP enters the brain parenchyma and is metabolized to MPP+ outside the catecholamine neurons, but that the regional distribution of MPTP and MPP+ does not explain the vulnerability of different catecholamine neurons in the rodents studied.
Recent neurophysiological studies have indicated that there are two parallel pathways in vision processing independently shape and motion. There are many methods for examining perception of color and shape, but none for examining visual motion perception. In this study, we devised a &quot;motion discrimination task (MDT)&quot; for evaluating motion perception, which was displayed on a computer monitor, and recorded normal responses to the MDT in 90 normal subjects. Responses to MDT were not affected by visual acuity, but were affected by dot speed of the MDT. There was little trial-to-trial or subject variability in the MDT. These findings indicate that our MDT is a good clinical test for evaluating motion perception in human subjects.
beta-CIT-FP [N-(3-fluoropropyl)-2 beta-carbomethoxy-3 beta-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane] is a cocaine analogue with a high affinity for the dopamine transporter. [O-methyl-11C]beta-CIT-FP ([11C]beta-CIT-FP) was prepared by O-alkylation of the free acid with [11C]methyl iodide. The total radiochemical yield of [11C]beta-CIT-FP was 50 to 60% with an overall synthesis time of 30 min. The radiochemical purity was &gt; 99%, and the specific radioactivity at time of injection was about 37 GBq/mumol (1000 Ci/mmol). Autoradiographic examination of [11C]beta-CIT-FP binding in human brain postmortem demonstrated specific binding in the caudate nucleus and putamen. Positron emission tomography (PET) examination of [11C]beta-CIT-FP in a Cynomolgus monkey demonstrated accumulation in the striatum with a striatum-to-cerebellum ratio of about 8 after 60 min. Equilibrium in the striatum was attained within 70 to 90 min. The radioactivity ratios of thalamus/cerebellum and neocortex/cerebellum were about 2 and 1.5, respectively. In a displacement experiment, radioactivity in the striatum but not in the cerebellum was reduced after injection of beta-CIT, indicating that striatal radioactivity following injection of [11C]beta-CIT-FP is associated with dopamine transporter sites and that the binding is reversible. The fraction of the total radioactivity in plasma representing [11C]beta-CIT-FP determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was 84% at 15 min and 50% at 95 min. [11C]beta-CIT-FP should be a useful PET radioligand for the quantitation of dopamine transporters in the human brain in vivo.
A neuropathologic study was undertaken to examine associated brain damage in patients with fetal and neonatal posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus (PHH). In PHH the association of periventricular leukomalacia and pontosubicular necrosis was not increased, but that of cerebellar subarachnoid hemorrhage and olivo-cerebellar pathology was significantly increased. All patients with the olivocerebellar pathology exhibited associated cerebellar subarachnoid hemorrhage and loss of Purkinje cells. Ferritin-positive glia were increased in the molecular layer of most patients, and glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive glia and/or fibers were increased in the molecular layer, granular layer, and white matter in older infants. Neonates with PHH had more severe brain lesions than those with only intraventricular hemorrhage. At 2 weeks of age in PHH, the ventricular wall displayed hemosiderin deposits and nodular gliosis, with ependymal cell loss and subependymal rosette formation. These findings may be closely related to the underlying pathogenesis and neurologic sequelae of PHH.
Aggressive behaviors (numbers of bites/hour) within groups (ns = 8) of normal rats and rats in which seizures had been induced by a single systemic injection of lithium/pilocarpine were observed for 11 successive, 1-hr, periods. Mean numbers of neurons and glial cells were counted for 10 different nuclei of the amygdala for 16 different brains (8 control; 8 seizure). Although there was no significant difference found between rats with chronically induced seizures and controls for the numbers of neurons per area within the central medial amygdaloid nucleus, the neuronal density was correlated significantly (.92) with mean numbers of bites per hour for the chronically epileptic group only. The hypothesis that seizure-induced damage within proximal amygdaloid nuclei disinhibits the central nucleus and encourages aggression was supported.

We studied the effect of isoproterenol on the Ca2+-activated K+ (BK) channel in smooth muscle cells isolated from the basilar artery of the guinea pig. Cells were studied in a whole-cell configuration to allow the clamping of intracellular Ca2+ concentration, [Ca2+]i. Macroscopic BK channel currents were recorded during depolarizing test pulses from a holding potential (VH) of 0 mV, which was used to inactivate the outward rectifier. The outward macroscopic current available from a VH of 0 mV was highly sensitive to block by external tetraethylammonium Cl (TEA) and charybdotoxin, and was greatly augmented by increasing [Ca2+]i from 0.01 to 1.0 microM. With [Ca2+]i between 0.1 and 1.0 microM, 0.4 microM isoproterenol increased this current by 58.6 +/- 17.1%, whereas with [Ca2+]i at 0.01 microM a sixfold smaller increase was observed. With [Ca2+]i &gt; or = 0.1 microM, 100 microM dibutyryl -adenosine 3':5: cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) and 1 microM forskolin increased this current by 58.5 +/- 24.1% and 59.7 +/- 10.3%, respectively. The increase with isoproterenol was blocked by 4.0 microM propranolol extracellularly, and by 10 U/ml protein kinase inhibitor intracellularly. Single-channel openings during depolarizing test pulses from a VH of 0 mV recorded in the whole-cell configuration under the same conditions (outside-out-whole-cell recording) indicated a slope conductance of 260 pS. In conventional outside-out patches, this 260-pS channel was highly sensitive to block by external TEA, and in inside-out patches, its probability of opening was greatly augmented by increasing [Ca2+]i from 0.01 to 1.0 microM. Outside-out-whole-cell recordings with [Ca2+]i &gt; or = 0.1 microM indicated that 100 microM dibutyryl-cAMP increased the probability of opening of the 260-pS channel by 152 +/- 115%. In inside-out patches, the catalytic subunit of protein kinase A increased the probability of opening, and this effect also depended on [Ca2+]i , with a 35-fold larger effect observed with 0.1-0.5 microM Ca2+ compared to 0.01 microM Ca2+. We conclude that the BK channel in cerebrovascular smooth muscle cells can be activated by beta-adrenoceptor stimulation, that the effect depends strongly on [Ca2+]i, and that the effect is mediated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase A with no important contribution from a direct G-protein or phosphorylation-independent mechanism. Our data indicate that the BK channel may participate in beta-adrenoceptor-mediated relaxation of cerebral vessels, although the importance of this pathway in obtaining vasorelaxation remains to be determined.
Excitatory junction potentials (EJPs) were examined using intracellular recording techniques in mesenteric arteries isolated from 12- to 15-week-old spontaneously hypertensive (SHR), Wistar Kyoto (WKY) and Sprague Dawley (SD) rats. The amplitudes of EJPs evoked by single supramaximal stimuli were larger in arteries from SHRs (12.9 +/- 0.7 mV, n = 16) than in arteries from either WKYs (5.2 +/- 0.5 mV, n = 24) or SDs (8.6 +/- 0.8 mV, n = 15). The time constant of decay of EJPs did not differ significantly, suggesting that the passive electrical properties of the vascular smooth muscle are similar in the three rat strains. Spontaneous EJPs recorded in tissues from SHRs and WKYs had similar amplitude frequency distributions, suggesting that the quantal size is also similar between strains. In some arteries from SHRs, EJPs evoked by single stimuli triggered muscle action potentials (MAPs). Visible constriction only occurred following a MAP. In tissues from all three strains, summation of EJPs triggered MAPs. As EJPs are generated by the sympathetic co-transmitter adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), the findings of the present study indicate that purinergic transmission is enhanced in mesenteric arteries from SHRs, probably as a result of an increase in quantal release. A consequence is that when nerves are activated SHR arteries more readily undergo constriction that is dependent on voltage-activated Ca2+ influx.
The effect of isradipine, a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, on intravenous self-administration of nicotine in naive mice has been investigated. When nicotine injections were made contingent upon nose-poke response by naive mice, they increased their rate of nose poking with respect to animals receiving contingent saline injections or yoked control animals receiving noncontingent nicotine injections. Pretreatment of mice with mecamylamine (2.4 mg/kg) inhibited self-administration of nicotine contingent upon a nose-poke response. The same effect was observed with isradipine (0.5-1.0 mg/kg) in a dose-related manner and stereospecifically. These data suggest that isradipine suppresses the reinforcing properties of nicotine and might be useful for treatment of nicotine abuse.
Novelty and conditioned fear were used to investigate the effects of psychological stress on fasting small intestinal and colonic myoelectric activity and their relation with behaviour in freely moving rats fitted with bipolar electrodes on proximal jejunum and colon. Rats in both novelty and conditioned fear groups spent a 15 min session in a novel box, where only rats in the fear group received unescapable, repeated foot shock (10 x 6 s, 0.5 mA). Behaviour in groups reexposed to the box on day 1 or day 7 indicated a profound difference in emotional state. Conditioned fear rats remained largely immobile, while novelty rats displayed active exploratory behaviour. Behaviour during conditioned fear did not differ significantly between rats reexposed to the box either 1 or 7 days after foot shock, while novelty animals appeared more aroused on day 7. Conditioned fear on day 1 caused a significant increase in colonic spike burst frequency compared to basal values in the home cage. A smaller but significant increase was found in novelty rats. In groups tested after 7 days, both novelty and conditioned fear resulted in small increases in colonic burst frequency that did not differ significantly from each other. No effects were found on the incidence of the fasting jejunal Migrating Motility Complex. Defecation was see only in conditioned fear rats, but did not differ quantitatively between day 1 and day 7. We conclude that, in the rat, colonic myoelectric spike burst activity is highly responsive to psychological stress, while the fasting pattern of small intestinal activity is more resistant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
An ecological niche that requires competency in water has prepared rats for the swimming pool spatial tasks that they are administered in the laboratory. Their ability to eventually solve spatial tasks in a single trial makes them ideal subjects for evaluating neural contributions to spatial behavior and for addressing many other neuroscience problems. Swimming pool place tasks are also given to mice, but the spatial abilities of the animal has not been evaluated as extensively as have those of rats. In the present paper, place learning in a single place task and a matching to place task is comparatively assessed in groups of rats and mice. The rats were superior to the mice on both problems. Although the mice could learn a single place problem, their acquisition was slower and their asymptotic performance was inferior to that of rats. Mice also did not display one trial learning on the matching to place task as did rats. These species differences in swimming pool place learning are discussed with respect to both methodological considerations and to species differences in preparedness to learn. It is suggested that given the variability of the performance of mice across both strains and laboratories, rat performance could be used to provide a baseline for comparative purposes.
The past decade has witnessed rapid progress in defining neural circuits and mechanisms in the brain, responsible for regulation of the sympathetic nerve activity and cardiovascular functions. Several groups of cardiovascular neurons in the brainstem form the fundamental neural circuits, through which reflexly and centrally initiated sympathetic responses are processed. Their interplay determines the levels of sympathetic nerve activity and vascular tone. Substantial evidence indicates that a small population of reticulospinal vasomotor neurons in the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus of the medulla oblongata play critical and integrative roles by: 1) providing, largely by their intrinsic pacemaker activity, tonic sympathoexcitation, thus maintaining normal blood pressure and organ blood flows, 2) mediating a variety of circulatory reflexes and centrally initiated sympathetic responses thereby helping to match organ blood flow to metabolic demands, and 3) acting as intrinsic oxygen detectors which orchestrate appropriate autonomic response programs to protect the integrity of brain in response to acute hypoxia-ischemia. Elaboration of the neural mechanisms and cellular and molecular properties of these vasomotor neurons related to dynamic regulation of the cardiovascular system in normal and disease states will be of relevance to a full appreciation of their role in adaptation of the organism to its internal and external environments and to the development of strategies to fight against neurogenic cardiovascular diseases and to restore normal functions.
Family, twin and adoption studies highlight the influence of genes in the aetiology of schizophrenia, though the mode of inheritance is unclear. We have been conducting a systematic search for major genes in schizophrenia using a series of multiply affected families and report preliminary results of linkage under heterogeneity with markers on chromosome 13. A lod2 score of 1.61 for marker D13S144 was obtained at theta = 0 and alpha of 0.5 and nearby markers also produced positive values.
Ibogaine is currently being investigated for its potential use as an anti-addictive agent. In the present study we sought to determine whether prior morphine exposure influences the ability of ibogaine to inhibit morphine-induced locomotor stimulation. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were pretreated once a day for 1-4 days with morphine (5, 10, 20 or 30 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline and then received ibogaine (40 mg/kg, i.p.) 5 h after the last morphine pretreatment dose. Compared to rats pretreated with saline, rats pretreated with morphine (10, 20 or 30 mg/kg, i.p.) before ibogaine (40 mg/kg, i.p.) showed a significant reduction in morphine-induced (5 mg/kg, i.p.) locomotor stimulation when tested 29 h after ibogaine administration. Furthermore, this effect was apparent over a range of ibogaine (5-60 mg/kg, i.p.) and morphine test (2.5-5 mg/kg, i.p.) dosages. Doses of ibogaine (5 and 10 mg/kg, i.p.) which alone were inactive inhibited morphine-induced locomotor activity when rats had been pretreated with morphine. These results, showing that morphine pre-exposure affects ibogaine activity, suggest that variable histories of opioid exposure might account for individual differences in the efficacy of ibogaine to inhibit opioid addiction.
SCH 39166 is the first selective D1 dopamine receptor antagonist developed for the treatment of schizophrenic patients. To examine potential antipsychotic effect, tolerability and safety, SCH 39166 was given orally to 17 acutely ill drug free schizophrenic patients (DSMIIIR) in an open 4-week study. Doses were escalated from 10 to 100 mg b.i.d. according to a fixed schedule over 17 days and remained at 100 mg b.i.d. for another 11 days. The drug was withdrawn prematurely in ten patients because of deterioration or refusal to take SCH 39166. In the nine patients participating for more than 2 weeks, none had an apparent reduction of BPRS or CGI scores. Side effects were agitation, akathisia and emesis in single patients. After withdrawal of SCH 39166 of the patients improved when treated with classical neuroleptics or clozapine. The result of the study does not support the prediction that selective D1 dopamine receptor antagonism will produce antipsychotic effects in schizophrenia.
SCH 39166 is the first selective D1-dopamine receptor antagonist developed for clinical trials in schizophrenia. SCH 39166 was evaluated as a radioligand for PET, labeled with 11C, and as a D1-dopamine receptor antagonist after single oral doses in healthy men. After intravenous injection of [11C]SCH 39166 distribution of radioactivity in brain grossly reflected D1-dopamine receptor density. The putamen to cerebellum ratio at equilibrium was low (1.54 +/- 0.18 SD), which makes [11C]SCH 39166 less suitable as a radioligand for applied PET studies. Saturability of specific binding was demonstrated after IV injection of [11C]SCH 39166 with low specific radioactivity. Stereospecificity of binding was examined using the stereoisomer [11C]SCH 39165. D1-Receptor occupancy was demonstrated with [11C]SCH 39166 2 h after administration of single oral doses of unlabeled SCH 39166 to each of three healthy subjects (25, 100 and 400 mg). There was a substantial reduction of specific [11C]SCH 39166 uptake in the putamen after all doses. Single oral doses of 100 mg induced approximately 70% D1-dopamine receptor occupancy in the basal ganglia, which should be sufficient to investigate the antipsychotic potential of D1-dopamine receptor antagonism in clinical studies.
We investigated the skin sympathetic nerve activity (SSNA) in 4 patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome (CBS) using microneurography. All patients showed transient hypertension, tachycardia and palmoplantar hyperhidrosis in the acute phase of illness, but these symptoms disappeared in the chronic phase. Microelectrode recordings of SSNA performed at the median nerve in the acute phase when hypertension, tachycardia and palmoplantar hyperhidrosis were present and then in the recovery phase. In the acute phase, the level of SSNA was significantly higher than the control levels obtained from 16 healthy subjects, while in the chronic recovery phase the SSNA showed no significant difference from that of the control. The correlation between the SSNA and corresponding changes in the sweat rate and skin blood flow was kept constant both in the acute phase and chronic phase. These findings suggest that the sympathetic nerve dysfunction observed in the acute phase of GBS is partly the consequence of hyperactivity of the skin sympathetic nerve.
It was found in the present study that low frequency (2Hz) electroacupuncture (EA) stimulation caused a decrease of the content of substance P immunoreactivity (SP-ir), whereas medium-(15Hz), high-(100Hz) and dense-disperse (D-D)- (2/15Hz) frequencies EA stimulation induced an increase of the content of SP-ir in the rat spinal fluid. EA analgesia induced by medium-, high- or D-D mode frequency was suppressed by nonpeptide SP (NK1) receptor antagonists CP96345 or RP67580 administered intrathecally (i.t.). Both the attenuation of SP release by low frequency EA and the potentiation of SP release by medium frequency EA in the spinal cord were blocked by the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (i.t.). These results suggest that a decrease of release of SP-ir by low frequency and an increase of it by medium-, high- and D-D mode frequencies in the spinal cord facilitate analgesia.

We applied continuous, on-line and real-time spectral analysis of electroencephalographic (EEG) signals and microdialysis to evaluate the possible participation of noradrenergic neurotransmission at the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in EEG desynchronization induced by cocaine. Male Sprague-Dawley rats that were under chloral hydrate anesthesia were used. Intravenous administration of cocaine (1.5 or 3.0 mg/kg) dose-dependently induced EEG desynchronization, as represented by a decrease in root mean square (RMS) and an increase in mean power frequency (MPF) value of the EEG signals. Power spectral analysis further revealed that whereas both doses of cocaine promoted a reduction in the alpha (8-13 Hz), theta (4-8 Hz), and delta (1-4 Hz) components, the lower dose of cocaine decreased, and the higher dose increased the beta band (13-32 Hz). Microdialysis data indicated an elevation in extracellular concentration of norepinephrine at the mPFC that paralleled temporally and correlated positively with the maximal effect of cocaine on EEG activity. Bilateral microinjection of the selective noradrenergic neurotoxin, DSP4 (50 micrograms), or equimolar concentration (500 pmol) of the alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, prazosin, or alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, yohimbine, into the mPFC significantly blunted the decrease in delta component (prazosin) or both delta and theta components (DSP4 or yohimbine) of EEG activity by the lower dose of cocaine. On the other hand, the same pretreatments appreciably antagonized the increase in beta band by cocaine at 3.0 mg/kg. The potency of the antagonism by yohimbine, however, was higher than prazosin. These results suggest that cocaine may elicit EEG desynchronization via noradrenergic neurotransmission, and that alpha 2-adrenoceptors, and to a lesser extent, alpha 1-adrenoceptors, at the mPFC may be involved in the subtle dose-dependent changes in individual EEG spectral components.
The effects of exposure to soiled bedding on synaptic morphology in the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) were examined in adult male rats. Forty-day-old male rats were isolated. One group was exposed to bedding soiled by male and female rats (EC). Another group was exposed only to male-soiled bedding (SC). A third group was exposed to clean bedding (IC). After 2 months, the animals were sacrificed for electron microscopy. The size and the numerical density of synapses were measured in the glomerulus and the granule cell layer. In the glomerulus, the mean size of the synapses was significantly greater in the EC than in the IC group, whereas that in the SC group appeared to be intermediate between those in the EC and the IC groups but was not significantly different from those in the EC and the IC groups. There was no statistically significant difference in the density of synapses among the three groups. Synapses in the granule cell layer are classified into two types: 1) perforated synapses, which are characterized by discontinuities in their postsynaptic thickenings, and 2) nonperforated synapses. The mean size of perforated synapses was significantly greater in the EC than in the IC and SC groups; however, no statistically significant difference was observed in the size of nonperforated synapses among the three groups. Moreover, no statistically significant difference was observed in the numerical densities of either perforated or nonperforated synapses among the three groups. These results suggested that exposure to a more complex soiled bedding environment (i.e., to bedding soiled by both male and female rats) can induce greater structural changes of the synapses in the AOB of male adult rats.


We used speed discrimination tasks to measure the ability of observers to combine speed information from multiple stimuli distributed across space. We compared speed discrimination thresholds in a classical discrimination paradigm to those in an uncertainty/search paradigm. Thresholds were measured using a temporal two-interval forced-choice design. In the discrimination paradigm, the n gratings in each interval all moved at the same speed and observers were asked to choose the interval with the faster gratings. Discrimination thresholds for this paradigm decreased as the number of gratings increased. This decrease was not due to increasing the effective stimulus area as a control experiment that increased the area of a single grating did not show a similar improvement in thresholds. Adding independent speed noise to each of the n gratings caused thresholds to decrease at a rate similar to the original no-noise case, consistent with observers combining an independent sample of speed from each grating in both the added- and no-noise cases. In the search paradigm, observers were asked to choose the interval in which one of the n gratings moved faster. Thresholds in this case increased with the number of gratings, behavior traditionally attributed to an input bottleneck. However, results from the discrimination paradigm showed that the increase was not due to observers' inability to process these gratings. We have also shown that the opposite trends of the data in the two paradigms can be predicted by a decision theory model that combines independent samples of speed information across space. This demonstrates that models typically used in classical detection and discrimination paradigms are also applicable to search paradigms. As our model does not distinguish between samples in space and time, it predicts that discrimination performance should be the same regardless of whether the gratings are presented in two spatial intervals or two temporal intervals. Our last experiment largely confirmed this prediction.
Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) containing neurons arise in the region of the medial olfactory placode and migrate into the developing olfactory bulbs and basal forebrain along branches of the terminal and vomeronasal nerves. The neurons ultimately come to reside in olfactory and septo-preoptic areas and project extensively to several brain regions, including the preoptic area and median eminence. The present study examined the expression of a glial-associated guidance molecule, S100, as a possible substrate for this migration. Monodelphis domestica (the Brazilian grey, short-tailed opossum) was studied since this species gives birth to very immature, young, allowing access to early periods of mammalian forebrain development. Immunoreactivity for both S100 and LHRH-containing neurons and fibers were observed to be closely associated along the entire LHRH migratory route from the vomeronasal organ to the septo-preoptic areas as early as the day of birth (PO). By P10, S100-immunoreactivity was also seen in areas containing LHRH-immunoreactive fibers such as the preoptic area and median eminence. We suggest that S100, a protein with neurotrophic properties in vitro, acts as a guidance molecule for migrating LHRH-immunoreactive neurons and elongating processes.
Neurotrophins are a family of highly conserved proteins that affect the development and maintenance of distinct neuronal populations. Neurotrophins exist in vivo as homodimers, but we show that neurotrophins can exist as heterodimers in vitro and are pluripotent, being able to bind and to activate different Trk tyrosine kinase receptors as well as promote neuronal differentiation in PC12 cells as effectively as wild type homodimers. These asymmetric neurotrophin dimers allow unique characterization of neurotrophin structure-function relationships with Trk receptors. The chimeric Trk activities of these heterodimers suggest an alternative model of neurotrophin-Trk receptor activation in which the critical Trk-interacting elements may be attributed to a single protomer.
Systemic treatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist memantine (MEM) resulted in a decrease in mechanical hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia in neuropathic rats. Bolus injections of 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg MEM (i.p.) attenuated withdrawal responses following mechanical stimulation for up to 6 h post-injection while saline had no effect. A more remarkable effect was observed following chronic treatment with MEM via mini-osmotic pumps (8 mg/kg per h for 7 days, i.p.), in which nociceptive responses were decreased during treatment and remained depressed for 3 days post-treatment. These antinociceptive effects can be obtained at doses which do not produce motor dysfunction. The results of this study demonstrate that MEM has a therapeutic effect on mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia and may be considered as an alternative treatment for pathological pain in the clinical setting.
A driver steering a car on a twisting road has two distinct tasks: to match the road curvature, and to keep a proper distance from the lane edges. Both are achieved by turning the steering wheel, but it is not clear which part or parts of the road ahead supply the visual information needed, or how it is used. Current models of the behaviour of real drivers or 'co-driver' simulators vary greatly in their implementation of these tasks, but all agree that successful steering requires the driver to monitor the angular deviation of the road from the vehicle's present heading at some 'preview' distance ahead, typically about 1 s into the future. Eye movement recordings generally support this view. Here we have used a simple road simulator, in which only certain parts of the road are displayed, to show that at moderate to high speeds accurate driving requires that both a distant and a near region of the road are visible. The former is used to estimate road curvature and the latter to provide position-in-lane feedback. At lower speeds only the near region is necessary. These results support a two-stage model of driver behaviour.
Voltage-gated channel proteins sense a change in the transmembrane electric field and respond with a conformational change that allows ions to diffuse across the pore-forming structure. Site-specific mutagenesis combined with electrophysiological analysis of expressed mutants in amphibian oocytes has previously established the S4 transmembrane segment as an element of the voltage sensor. Here, we show that mutations of conserved negatively charged residues in S2 and S3 of a brain K+ channel, thought of as countercharges for the positively charged residues in S4, selectively modulate channel gating without modifying the permeation properties. Mutations of Glu235 in S2 that neutralize or reverse charge increase the probability of channel opening and the apparent gating valence. In contrast, replacements of Glu272 by Arg or Thr268 by Asp in S3 decrease the open probability and the apparent gating valence. Residue Glu225 in S2 tolerated replacement only by acidic residues, whereas Asp258 in S3 was intolerant to any attempted change. These results imply that S2 and S3 are unlikely to be involved in channel lining, yet, together with S4, may be additional components of the voltage-sensing structure.
Synapsin I has been proposed to be involved in the modulation of neurotransmitter release by controlling the availability of synaptic vesicles for exocytosis. To further understand the role of synapsin I in the function of adult nerve terminals, we studied synapsin I-deficient mice generated by homologous recombination. The organization of synaptic vesicles at presynaptic terminals of synapsin I-deficient mice was markedly altered: densely packed vesicles were only present in a narrow rim at active zones, whereas the majority of vesicles were dispersed throughout the terminal area. This was in contrast to the organized vesicle clusters present in terminals of wild-type animals. Release of glutamate from nerve endings, induced by K+,4-aminopyridine, or a Ca2+ ionophore, was markedly decreased in synapsin I mutant mice. The recovery of synaptic transmission after depletion of neurotransmitter by high-frequency stimulation was greatly delayed. Finally, synapsin I-deficient mice exhibited a strikingly increased response to electrical stimulation, as measured by electrographic and behavioral seizures. These results provide strong support for the hypothesis that synapsin I plays a key role in the regulation of nerve terminal function in mature synapses.
Synapsin I, the most abundant of all neuronal phosphoproteins, is enriched in synaptic vesicles. It has been hypothesized to regulate synaptogenesis and neurotransmitter release from adult nerve terminals. The evidence for such roles has been highly suggestive but not compelling. To evaluate the possible involvement of synapsin I in synaptogenesis and in the function of adult synapses, we have generated synapsin I-deficient mice by homologous recombination. We report herein that outgrowth of predendritic neurites and of axons was severely retarded in the hippocampal neurons of embryonic synapsin I mutant mice. Furthermore, synapse formation was significantly delayed in these mutant neurons. These results indicate that synapsin I plays a role in regulation of axonogenesis and synaptogenesis.
NACP, a 140-amino acid presynaptic protein, is the precursor of NAC [the non-amyloid beta/A4 protein (A beta) component of Alzheimer disease (AD) amyloid], a peptide isolated from and immunologically localized to brain amyloid of patients afflicted with AD. NACP produced in Escherichia coli bound to A beta peptides, the major component of AD amyloid. NACP bound to A beta 1-38 and A beta 25-35 immobilized on nitrocellulose but did not bind to A beta 1-28 on the filter under the same conditions. NACP binding to A beta 1-38 was abolished by addition of A beta 25-35 but not by A beta 1-28, suggesting that the hydrophobic region of the A beta peptide is critical to this binding. NACP-112, a shorter splice variant of NACP containing the NAC sequence, bound to A beta, but NACP delta, a deletion mutant of NACP lacking the NAC domain, did not bind A beta 1-38. Furthermore, binding between NACP-112 and A beta 1-38 was decreased by addition of peptide Y, a peptide that covers the last 15 residues of NAC. In an aqueous solution, A beta 1-38 aggregation was observed when NACP was also present in an incubation mixture at a ratio of 1:125 (NACP/A beta), whereas A beta 1-38 alone or NACP alone did not aggregate under the same conditions, suggesting that the formation of a complex between A beta and NACP may promote aggregation of A beta. Thus, NACP can bind A beta peptides through the specific sequence and can promote A beta aggregation, raising the possibility that NACP may play a role in the development of AD amyloid.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) promotes survival of midbrain dopaminergic neurons and motoneurons. Expression of GDNF mRNA in cerebellum raises the possibility that cells within this structure might also respond to GDNF. To examine potential trophic activities of GDNF, dissociated cultures of gestational day 18 rat cerebellum were grown for &lt; or = 21 days in the presence of factor. GDNF increased Purkinje cell number without affecting the overall number of neurons or glial cells. A maximal response (50% above control) was elicited with GDNF at 1 pg/ml. Effects of GDNF on Purkinje cell differentiation were examined by scoring the morphologic maturation of cells in treated and control cultures. GDNF increased the proportion of Purkinje cells that displayed relatively mature morphologies, characterized by dendritic thickening and the development of spines and filopodial extensions. Morphologic maturation of the overall neuronal population was unaffected. In sum, our data indicate that GDNF is a potent survival and differentiation factor for Purkinje cells, the efferent neurons of cerebellar cortex. Together with its other actions, these findings raise the possibility that GDNF might be a critical trophic factor at multiple loci in neuronal circuits that control motor function.
A DNA-binding factor with high affinity and specificity for the [Leu5]enkephalin-encoding sequences in the prodynorphin and proenkephalin genes has been characterized. The factor has the highest affinity for the [Leu5]-enkephalin-encoding sequence in the dynorphin B-encoding region of the prodynorphin gene, has relatively high affinity for other [Leu5]enkephalin-encoding sequences in the prodynorphin and proenkephalin genes, but has no apparent affinity for similar DNA sequences coding for [Met5]-enkephalin in the prodynorphin or proopiomelanocortin genes. The factor has been named [Leu5]enkephalin-encoding sequence DNA-binding factor (LEF). LEF has a nuclear localization and is composed of three subunits of about 60, 70, and 95 kDa, respectively. The highest levels were observed in rat testis, cerebellum, and spleen and were generally higher in late embryonal compared to newborn or adult animals. LEF activity was also recorded in human clonal tumor cell lines. LEF inhibited the transcription of reporter genes in artificial gene constructs where a [Leu5]enkephalin-encoding DNA fragment had been inserted between the transcription initiation site and the coding region of the reporter genes. These observations suggest that the [Leu5]enkephalin-encoding sequences in the prodynorphin and proenkephalin genes also have regulatory functions realized through interaction with a specific DNA-binding factor.
The caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVL) contains neurons that are vasodepressor and are a critical component of the baroreceptor reflex pathway. While electrophysiological studies suggest that CVL neurons are intercalated in the baroreceptor pathway between the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) and the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL), there is no direct evidence for this projection. Therefore, we identified CVL neurons that project to RVL by retrogradely labelling them with wheat germ agglutinin-apo-horseradish peroxidase conjugated to colloidal gold (WAHG) injected into the RVL. Retrogradely labelled neurons were seen in previously identified vasodepressor areas of the rostral CVL that are critical for the baroreceptor reflex. Double labelling for WAHG and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunocytochemistry indicated that CVL neurons that project to the RVL (CVL --&gt; RVL neurons) are distinct from the noradrenergic neurons of the A1 cell group. To establish the presence of a direct projection from the NTS to CVL --&gt; RVL neurons, the retrograde tracer WAHG was pressure injected into the RVL and the anterograde tracer biocytin was iontophoresed into the NTS of anesthetized rats. After 4-6 h, anesthetized rats were perfused transcardially with 3.75% acrolein in 2% paraformaldehyde and sections through the CVL were processed for both markers. By light microscopy, numerous biocytin-labelled varicose processes overlapped neurons containing WAHG in the CVL. By electron microscopy, biocytin was found in myelinated and unmyelinated axons and in axon terminals (0.9 + 0.02 microns) that contained primarily small clear vesicles. These terminals formed predominantly asymmetric synapses on large (1.5-6.0 microns in diameter) dendrites within the CVL. Some of the post-synaptic perikarya and large dendrites contained WAHG associated with lysosomes and multivesicular bodies, indicating that they belong to neurons which project to the RVL. We conclude that CVL --&gt; RVL neurons are (a) distinct from A1 noradrenergic cells; (b) receive direct synaptic contacts from NTS efferent terminals; (c) are potently and monosynaptically excited (asymmetric synapses) by NTS efferent terminals. These data support the hypothesis that CVL neurons are intercalated between the NTS and the RVL in the baroreceptor reflex pathway.
We investigated whether increased light input can counteract the age-related decrease in vasopressin- (AVP) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-expressing neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) by determining the numbers of these neurons in rats of different ages, housed under low or high intensities of light. The significant age-related decrease for AVP was prevented in old animals after high light housing. For VIP, no effects were found.
Illumination produces degeneration of outer photoreceptor segments, a phenomenon that may be reversed after a period of darkness. Neuronal expression of the immediate early genes (IEGs) c-fos and c-jun, both recognized as proto-oncogenes, has been reported after stimulation of different regions in the central nervous system (CNS). We performed a sequential study on Fos and Jun immunoreactivity to investigate the role of IEGs following 8 days of continuous illumination in 30-35-day-old Wistar rats. Retinas were fixed by perfusion in 4% paraformaldehyde, after a period of illumination followed by 0, 2, 7, 10 and 20 days in total darkness. Cryostat sections were immunocytochemically stained using antibodies to Fos and Jun. Fos and Jun immunoreactivities were detected in all photoreceptors evaluated, peaking in nuclei of rats kept in total darkness for 2 days, and becoming negative as from 7 days. Increases in c-fos and c-jun products during the darkness period may play a role in triggering molecular events participating in plastic changes in photoreceptors and/or in the protection for oxidative damage cause by free radicals induced by light irradiation.
Light transmittance (T) in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices was measured during exposure to media of various osmolarities to determine the utility of optical measurements as an index of changes in cell volume. In slices positioned at the gas-liquid interface, hypo-osmotic medium consistently produced a decrease in T and hyperosmotic medium produced an increase in T. The magnitude of deltaT was graded as a function of the strength of osmotic change. All changes in T were reversible upon return to isosmotic medium. In contrast, osmotically induced changes in T in submerged slices were consistently opposite in direction to those observed in slices at the interface. The magnitude and direction of deltaT could be altered by systematic variation of the level of the bathing medium within the same chamber, indicating that both extrinsic optical properties of various interfaces, such as refraction and reflection, and intrinsic optical properties of the tissue contribute to the observed T. Spectral measurements eliminated the possibility that osmotically induced deltaT was the result of changes in light absorbance by intrinsic chromophores such as cytochromes or hemoglobin. The results show that measurements of deltaT can be a useful index of changes in cell volume in brain slices, provided that the level of the bath remains constant.
The present study evaluated the neurotoxic potential of phospholipase A2 (PLA2) in in vitro (primary neuronal cultures) and in vivo (EEG and behavior) rat models of CNS excitability. In vitro, PLA2 (0.0038-5.8 nM) or melittin (a potent activator of endogenous PLA2; 100-5000 nM), were highly neurotoxic, causing approximately 500 units/ml LDH release. The neurotoxic EC50s for PLA2 and melittin were 1.8 (1.4-2.3) and 848 (501-1280) nM, respectively. Neurotoxic concentrations of PLA2 stimulated neuronal release of [3H]AA. Preliminary in vitro experiments evaluating changes in neuronal calcium flux indicated that PLA2 caused transient, and melittin sustained, increases in [Ca2+]i. In vivo, PLA2 (0.5-5 micrograms i.c.v.) or melittin (2.5-20 micrograms i.c.v.) produced nonconvulsive EEG seizures, which generalized to status epilepticus. While the onset of seizure development was markedly delayed for PLA2 (1.5-4.5 h), the seizure inducing effects of melittin were evident within 3.5 +/- 0.2 min and more severe. Both PLA2 and melittin were lethal, exhibiting LD50s of 0.62 micrograms and 8.4 micrograms, respectively. Pretreatment with (+)-MK801 (5 micrograms, i.c.v.) significantly attenuated melittin, but not PLA2, in vivo neurotoxicity. PLA2 induced neuropathology in surviving rats revealed extensive cortical and subcortical injury to forebrain neurons and fibre pathways. Collectively, these results demonstrate the potent neurotoxic potential of PLA2, the delayed clinical nature of its in vivo neurotoxicity and the applicability of these model systems to future studies on mechanisms of PLA2 neurotoxicity and the development of potential PLA2 antagonists.
beta-Endorphin-(10-16), as well as a variety of antidepressants, has been reported to block the behavioural changes induced by injecting melatonin into the nucleus accumbens. In the present study the influence of subcutaneously administered prolyl-leucyl-glycinamide (PLG) and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) on the behavioural changes induced by melatonin administration in the nucleus accumbens were investigated and compared with that of beta-endorphin-(10-16). PLG and TRH were found to be as effective as beta-endorphin-(10-16) in counteracting the melatonin-induced behavioural changes. The data suggest that these peptides may serve as a starting point for the development of a new class of antidepressants.

Endocrine cells containing gastrin/cholecystokinin (CCK)-like immunoreactivity were localized to the islet tissue in the pancreas of the spiny dogfish. Most of these cells were located in the 'intestinal' lobe of the pancreas; only occasional cells were observed in the 'splenic' lobe. The gastrin/CCK-like immunoreactive cells were often co-localized with the 'classical' pancreas hormones (insulin, glucagon and somatostatin). Radioimmunoassay of water extracts with a C-terminally directed antiserum revealed high levels of immunoreactive material in the intestinal part (48.6 +/- 19.9 pmol/g) and lower levels (4.5 +/- 0.6 pmol/g) in the splenic part. Acetic acid extracts of the intestinal lobe contained low levels (6.8 +/- 3.3 pmol/g) of gastrin/CCK-like immunoreactivity, whereas corresponding extracts of the splenic part showed no immunoreactivity. When the extracts were subjected to DEAE ion-exchange chromatography the gastrin/CCK-like peptides eluted as a major peak. After Sephadex gel filtration, pooled immunoreactive material from the main DEAE chromatographic peak eluted at a position close to that of CCK4. Further characterization by ion-exchange and reversed-phase HPLC showed that, in general, the immunoreactive material behaved like the shorter forms of the gastrin/CCK family (CCK4/G5 and CCK8/Cae 3-10).
NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors are selectively localized at the postsynaptic membrane of excitatory synapses in the mammalian brain. The molecular mechanisms underlying this localization were investigated by expressing the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor in fibroblasts. NR1 splice variants containing the first COOH-terminal exon cassette (NR1A and NR1D) were located in discrete, receptor-rich domains associated with the plasma membrane. NR1 splice variants lacking this exon cassette (NR1C and NR1E) were distributed throughout the cell, with large amounts of NR1 protein present in the cell interior. Insertion of this exon cassette into the COOH-terminus of the GluR1 AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate) receptor was sufficient to cause GluR1 to be localized to discrete, receptor-rich domains. Furthermore, protein kinase C phosphorylation of specific serines within this exon disrupted the receptor-rich domains. These results demonstrate that amino acid sequences contained within the NR1 molecule serve to localize this receptor subunit to discrete membrane domains in a manner that is regulated by alternative splicing and protein phosphorylation.

The clinical manifestations of so-called 'untreatable dementias' result from neuronal dysfunction causing premature neuronal death. As long as the neurosciences won't have an explanation for the increased vulnerability and cause of death of neurons in neurodegenerative disorders, no preventive or curative treatment can be expected. So far, the treatment of dementia focuses essentially on the consequences of neuronal dysfunction or cell loss by either a palliative approach addressing psychosis, behavior or anxiety and depression, or by substitution of deficient neurotransmitters with quasi no success. Only tacrine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, now available in Switzerland, has a marginal effect in early cases, but every other substitutive approach has failed so far. Muscarinic agonists as well as antiamyloid substances will be tested soon in clinical trials. Growth factors (especially NGF) raise big hopes for the near future, but they are still under preclinical evaluation.
In the present study, coronal brain sections of cortically devascularized non-human primates (Cercopithecus aethiops) were used to assess the lesion-associated synaptic loss, and the effect of exogenous nerve growth factor (NGF) in preventing or reversing this neurodegeneration. The sections were immunolabeled with antibodies against the synaptic marker protein synaptophysin (SYN), as well as choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and parvalbumin (PV) markers that identify cholinergic neurons and interneurons, respectively. We found that, compared to sham-operated animals, in the lesioned vehicle treated animals SYN immunoreactivity near the lesioned site in the frontoparietal cortex was decreased by 31%. Similarly, corrected optical density values of immunostained sections specific for ChAT in the nucleus basalis of Meynert (ipsilateral to the lesion) decreased by 20% and PV-immunoreactive neurons near the lesion decreased by 47%. In contrast, NGF-treated lesioned animals showed levels of SYN, ChAT, and PV immunoreactivity similar to sham controls. These results are consistent with previous studies and support the view that NGF may not only prevent neurodegenerative changes after neocortical infarction by protecting vulnerable neurons, but also is capable of inducing sprouting and synaptogenesis.
We have characterized somatostatinergic phenotype markers of the human neuroblastoma, LA-N-2. A single mRNA-transcript (approximately 850bp) and two cellular somatostatin immunoreactivity forms, a high molecular weight form (M(r) 15,000) and a fragment corresponding to somatostatin-28 was found, while the somatostatin-14 peptide was absent. Saturation binding experiments demonstrated a single class of high-affinity somatostatin receptors with Kd and Bmax of 0.27 +/- 0.03 nM and 45 +/- 1 fmol/mg protein. Partial G-protein uncoupling (30%) was demonstrated, using GTP gamma S, with an affinity of 9.7 nM. The LA-N-2 cell line, previously shown to be cholinergic, may serve as a simplified system to elucidate heterologous neurotransmittor interactions. Such studies are of interest since dysfunctions of the cholinergic basal forebrain neurons and somatostatin immunoreactive interneurons have been consistently observed in Alzheimer's disease.
Stimulation of gastric vagal afferents by systemic administration of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK) inhibits gastric motility, reduces food intake, and stimulates pituitary secretion of oxytocin and adrenocorticotropic hormone in rats. To characterize further the central neural circuits responsible for these effects, the present study used triple-labeling immunocytochemical methods to determine whether or not exogenous CCK activates cFos expression in catecholaminergic neurons in the caudal medulla that project to the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). To identify these neurons, the retrograde tracer fluorogold (FG) was iontophoresed into the PVN of anesthetized rats under stereotaxic guidance. After 2 weeks, rats were injected with CCK (100 micrograms/kg, i.p.) and then anesthetized and killed 1 hour later by perfusion fixation. Medullary sections were processed for triple immunocytochemical localization of cFos, retrogradely transported FG, and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). In rats with FG injections centered in the PVN (n = 10), approximately 70% of the FG-labeled neurons in the caudal nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) and ventrolateral medulla (VLM) expressed cFos. Of these activated PVN-projecting neurons, approximately 78% in the NST and 89% in the VLM were catecholaminergic (TH positive). These results indicate that PVN-projecting catecholaminergic neurons within the caudal medulla are activated by peripheral administration of CCK, further implicating these ascending catecholaminergic pathways in the neuroendocrine, physiological, and behavioral effects produced by gastric vagal stimulation.





The high affinity noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist CNS 1102 (aptiganel hydrochloride, Cambridge NeuroScience, Cambridge, MA.) is neuroprotective in preclinical models of stroke when administered as pretreatment or up to 60 minutes postischemia, and has potential for treatment of acute stroke or traumatic brain injury in man. A total of 55 healthy male subjects have participated in three separate studies to determine the clinical pharmacology of CNS 1102, 43 of whom have received CNS 1102 in doses of up to 100 micrograms/kg. Administration of CNS 1102 has been studied as a 15-minute intravenous infusion, as a 15-minute loading intravenous infusion followed by a 4-hour maintenance infusion, or as a fixed-dose intravenous bolus over 90 seconds. CNS 1102 in normal volunteers is well tolerated in total doses up to 32 micrograms/kg whether as a bolus injection, 15-minute infusion or 4-hour infusion. Central nervous system affects are evident within minutes of administration, implying rapid drug penetration. CNS 1102 has a large and variable volume of distribution (mean +/- standard deviation, 6.2 +/- 1.9 l/kg), variable clearance (115 +/- 77 l/h), and plasma half-life of approximately 4.5 hours. Adjustment of doses by subject weight does not improve variability of these parameters, and fixed doses may thus be administered. CNS 1102 causes dose-dependent elevation of blood pressure, accompanied by clinical evidence of vasoconstriction. Global cerebral blood flow is maintained, whilst middle cerebral artery flow velocity increases. Symptoms of light-headedness, disorientation and paresthesia progress through euphoria, disinhibition, and hallucinations to psychomotor retardation, paranoia and catatonia as total administered dose increases.
We have originated a family of N,N'-disubstituted guanidines that block the voltage-activated Ca2+ and Na+ channels governing glutamate release. These compounds, CNS 1237 (N-acenaphthyl-N'-methoxynaphthyl guanidine) and its analogues, are &quot;use dependent&quot; in their ability to attenaute neurotransmitter release: they block glutamate release with greater efficacy under conditions of persistent or repetitive depolarization, as would be encountered under pathophysiological circumstances, relative to their ability to block glutamate release elicited by brief, transient depolarizations more characteristic of normal physiological release events in nonischemic brain. Using electrophysiological and rapid kinetic methods, we have differentiated the use-dependent block of the relevant Na+ and Ca2+ channels governing neurotransmitter release from the mechanism of channel antagonism exhibited by, respectively, the substituted guanidine Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX) and venom peptide Ca2+ antagonists. To characterize use-dependent Na+ channel block by CNS 1237, we have employed whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings from a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line expressing cloned mammalian type II Na+ channels. These experiments demonstrated that, in contrast to the actions of TTX under the same conditions, the potency of Na+ channel block by CNS 1237 is greatly enhanced by depolarizing stimuli in a frequency-dependent manner. Ca2+ channel-activated glutamate release from brain nerve terminal preparations was measured with approximately 300 msec time resolution over a 5-second period of high K(+)-depolarization, using a rapid superfusion technique. CNS 1237 and analogues, at 1-3 microM, accelerated the decay of glutamate release by 40-70%, reflecting depolarization-induced enhancement of block. In contrast, blockade of glutamate release by the Ca2+ channel antagonist peptide toxins omega-aga IV-A (from spider venom) and omega-conotoxin M-VII-C (from cone snail venom) exhibited &quot;reverse-use-dependence:&quot; at concentrations of 0.3 microM, which blocked the initial amplitude of glutamate release by 40-60%, the decay time constant for glutamate release was significantly increased, indicating depolarization-induced relief of block. These findings establish that CNS 1237 and other members of this compound series are use-dependent blockers of the voltage-activated ion channels governing glutamate release. Studies of CNS 1237 in the rat middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) focal stroke model have indicated infarct size reduction comparable to that observed by the same investigators for the glutamate release blocker (BW 619C89 (Burroughs-Wellcome, now in clinical development). Maximal infarct size reduction is achieved with a 3-mg/kg bolus followed by a 4-hour infusion of 0.75 mg/kg/hr.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Enhancer elements regulating the neuronal gene, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), were identified in TH-expressing peripheral nervous system PATH and central nervous system CATH cell lines. Mutational analysis in which rat TH 5'-flanking sequences directed chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) reporter gene expression demonstrated that mutating the cyclic AMP response element (CRE) at -45 base pair reduced expression by 80-90%. A CRE linked to an enhancerless TH promoter fully supported expression. Cotransfection of a dominant-negative CREB protein reduced expression 50-60%, suggesting that the CRE is bound by CREB or a CREB dimerization partner. Although mutating the AP1/dyad (AD) element at -205 base pair only modestly reduced CAT levels, AD minimal enhancer constructs gave 45-80% of wild type expression when positioned at -91 or -95. However, in its native context at -205, the AD could not support expression. In contrast, a CRE, moved from its normal position at -45 to -206, gave full activity. These results indicate that the CRE is critical for TH transcription in central nervous system CATH and peripheral nervous system PATH cells, whereas the AD is less important and its enhancer activity is context-and/or position-dependent. These results represent the first attempts to map regulatory elements directing TH expression in central nervous system cell lines.
PC1 and PC2 are two important subtilisin-like prohormone convertases (PC) that undergo differential endoproteolytic processing steps and sequentially mediate proopiomelanocortin (POMC) processing. To investigate the structural elements directing the processing of different PCs, we constructed a series of mutant and chimeric PC proteins and expressed them in cell lines with different patterns of expression of endogenous PCs: AtT-20, hEK293, and hLoVo cells. The COOH-terminally truncated PC1 underwent efficient proregion cleavage and rapid secretion in all three cell lines, while proregion cleavage and secretion were completely blocked in an active-site mutant of PC1. The truncated PC1 produced dramatic changes in POMC processing in AtT-20 cells. PC2 with the potential oxyanion hole Asp residue changed to Asn was processed and altered several aspects of POMC processing in a manner similar to that of wild-type PC2. PC1 protein with its proregion substituted with that of furin was cleaved after its proregion, producing active PC1 enzyme. A similar furin/PC2 fusion protein underwent proregion cleavage at low efficiency. By contrast, when the proregions of PC1 and PC2 were substituted with one another, both fusion proteins failed to cleave the foreign prosequences, were unable to undergo oligosaccharide maturation, and remained in the ER. Although inactive PC mutants could theoretically function as dominant negatives, none interfered with the processing of endogenous active PCs or with POMC processing. We conclude that the COOH-terminal of PC1 plays an important role in the routing or storage of PC1, the proregions of these PC proteins are replaceable in a molecule-specific manner, removal of proregion is essential for routing and for endoproteolytic activity, and the role of the potential oxyanion hole in PC2 is still unclear.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) contains the primary mammalian circadian clock. Light synchronizes these circadian rhythms through a mechanism involving the release of excitatory amino acids (EAA) and synthesis of nitric oxide (NO) in the SCN. In the current study, we investigated whether cGMP-mediated activation of cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) is associated with light-induced phase shifts of the circadian oscillator. Local administration of the specific PKG inhibitor, KT-5823, significantly attenuated light-induced advances in the phase of activity rhythms when administered during late subjective night (CT 19). Similar treatment at CT 14 had no significant effect on light-induced phase delays. These results are the first to implicate PKG in the biochemical pathway(s) responsible for photic phase advances, and suggest a divergence in biochemical pathways involved in photic phase shifts.
We recently reported that several sulfate-containing glycosaminoglycans, a class of compounds associated with the beta-amyloid plaques of Alzheimer's disease, attenuate the toxic effects of beta-amyloid fragments beta 25-35 and beta 1-40. The amyloid-binding sulfonated dye Congo Red was shown to have a similar effect. Using two clonal cell lines, we now demonstrate that several sulfonated dyes attenuate beta-amyloid toxicity and that the protective effect appears specific for compounds whose sulfonate groups can interact with the beta-pleated structure of aggregated amyloid. These results suggest that by binding beta-amyloid these compounds may prevent toxic interactions of the peptide with cells.
Visual P300 responses were recorded by using checkerboard-type stimuli. (1) High amplitude P300-delta responses were visible even in single trial event-related potentials (ERPs). (2) The algorithm based on the 'delta response metric' provides an efficient selection criterion for evaluation of P300 single trials in ERP ensembles. (3) The 'universal' character of the P300-delta response demonstrated in this report may open new avenues for the understanding of functional ERP components.
Amyloid beta-protein (A beta) and secreted beta-amyloid precursor protein (sAPP), derived from beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP), are normally released by cultured mammalian cells. We investigated by pulse-chase analysis the secretion kinetics of these two APP derivatives using mouse cholinergic SN49 cell lines stably transfected with mouse APP695 cDNA. After both A beta and sAPP peaked at about the second hour, sAPP decreased with a half-life of approximately 5 hours, but A beta remained almost unchanged for at least 14 hours. These results indicate that A beta is more stable than sAPP in the SN49 conditioned medium.

In central neurons, monamine neurotransmitters are taken up and stored within two distinct classes of regulated secretory vesicles: small synaptic vesicles and large dense core vesicles (DCVs). Biochemical and pharmacological evidence has shown that this uptake is mediated by specific vesicular monamine transporters (VMATs). Recent molecular cloning techniques have identified the vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT2) that is expressed in brain. This transporter determines the sites of intracellular storage of monoamines and has been implicated in both the modulation of normal monoaminergic neurotransmission and the pathogenesis of related neuropsychiatric disease. We used an antiserum against VMAT2 to examine its ultrastructural distribution in rat solitary tract nuclei, a region that contains a dense and heterogeneous population of monoaminergic neurons. We find that both immunoperoxidase and immunogold labeling for VMAT2 localize to DCVs and small synaptic vesicles in axon terminals, the trans-Golgi network of neuronal perikarya, tubulovesicles of smooth endoplasmic reticulum, and potential sites of vesicular membrane recycling. In axon terminals, immunogold labeling for VMAT2 was preferentially associated with DCVs at sites distant from typical synaptic junctions. The results provide direct evidence that a single VMAT is expressed in two morphologically distinct types of regulated secretory vesicles in central monoaminergic neurons.
Calretinin-containing neurons (CR) were visualized by immunocytochemistry in the human temporal cortex. The morphology of calretinin-positive neurons ranged from bipolar, bitufted, fusiform to double bouquet cells, whose long axis was parallel to the radial axis of the cortex. Calretinin-immunoreactive cells were more abundant in layers II, III and less frequent in layer VI and white matter. In layer I, large horizontal neurons resembling Cajal-Retzius cells were observed. Layers IV and V contained few labeled cells. The CR-immunoreactive neuropil was abundant, especially in supragranular layers. However, the most prominent feature of the pattern of calretinin staining was the presence of long, vertically oriented bundles of calretinin-immunoreactive processes. These bundles formed a widespread, regular columnar system descending throughout layers II to VI. Despite the virtually identical morphological features of CR-immunoreactive neurons and certain calbindin-immunoreactive neurons, colocalization studies for both antibodies against calretinin and calbindin, revealed little coexistence (in supragranular layers) or none (in infragranular layers). Thus, double bouquet cells could be considered as forming a chemically heterogeneous neuronal population. In addition, four brains from patients with Alzheimer's disease were immunostained for calretinin. No major differences from normal brains were found; the distribution, morphology and the characteristic, vertically oriented bundles resembled those described in normal brains. These data suggest that these calcium-binding protein-containing interneurons are present in normal human brain and that they are resistant to degeneration in Alzheimer's disease.
There are substantial differences in the incidence of inhibitory neurons in the ventrobasal complex of rat and cat thalamus. This marked dissimilarity in neuronal composition suggests that there should be corresponding differences in the orchestration of neural activity in these regions during cutaneous stimulation. To explore this possibility, we conducted a cross-correlation analysis of neuronal activity in the ventroposterolateral (VPL) nucleus of anesthetized rats and cats. Pairs of neurons representing hairy skin were recorded simultaneously with one or two electrodes during air jet stimulation of multiple sites throughout the receptive fields. Cross-correlation histograms indicated that correlated activity among adjacent neurons occurred in three distinct patterns. In one pattern, classified as narrow-unimodal, the discharge of one neuron preceded a discharge in the partner neuron over a narrow interval of time (&lt; 5 ms). Narrow-bimodal patterns were characterized by responses in which the temporal order of discharges from the two neurons was variable, but the interspike intervals were always &lt; 5 ms. In wide-unimodal patterns, the discharge of one neuron was correlated with subsequent discharges in the partner neuron over a wide interval of time (&gt; 5 ms). In rat VPL, two-thirds of the 58 neuron pairs showing correlated responses were characterized by narrow-unimodal responses and nearly one-third of the neuron pairs displayed narrow-bimodal patterns. Only one pair of rat VPL neurons were characterized by a wide-unimodal pattern of coordination. By comparison, half of the 61 adjacent neuron pairs with coordinated responses in cat VPL were characterized by narrow-unimodal patterns. Slightly more than one-third of the correlated neuron pairs had narrow-bimodal patterns, while the remainder (13%) were classified as wide-unimodal responses. Pairs of neurons separated by 340-405 microns discharged synchronously in a pattern that was similar to the temporal relationship expressed in the narrow-bimodal patterns found among adjacent neurons. In both species, the wide-unimodal patterns had the strongest coordinated responses as measured by the correlation coefficient. Although inhibitory relationships did not appear in correlation histograms that had been corrected for stimulus coordination, cross-correlation analysis of the raw spike trains revealed brief (10-40 ms) periods of inhibition that were associated with cat VPL neurons exhibiting wide-unimodal coordination patterns. In rat VPL, most inhibition involved longer (30-60 ms) periods of inhibitory oscillations appearing amidst a much larger rhythmic pattern. These results suggest that correlation patterns transpiring over narrow (&lt; 5 ms) time intervals represent the coordination of activity among neighboring thalamocortical relay neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Cystatin C, a cysteine protease inhibitor produced by the choroid plexus and found in CSF at high concentrations, may have an important role in brain injury. We used the two-vessel occlusion model with hypotension to induce transient forebrain ischemia (TFI) in rats for 10 min and then examined cystatin C immuno-like reactivity (CC-IR) after 1, 3, 7 and 14 days of recovery. Our results reveal that CC-IR was minimal or absent in the hippocampus of normal and 1 day post-ischemic animals. However, CC-IR was present in CA1 pyramidal cells and a small number of reactive glia of the stratum radiatum (SR) and stratum oriens (SO) at 3, 7 and 14 days post-ischemia. Histological assessment of the hippocampus indicates that CC-IR was localized in morphologically degenerative neurons. This distinct temporal expression of cystatin C in the rat hippocampus is concurrent with delayed neuronal death following TFI. Thus, these results indicate that cystatin C and/or its substrates may be important components of the post-ischemic neurodegenerative and repair process.
The primary structure of a novel insect neuropeptide, Cardioacceleratory Peptide 2b (CAP2b), from the tobacco hawkmoth Manduca sexta has been established using a combination of mass spectroscopy, Edman degradation microsequencing, amino acid analysis, and biological assays. The sequence of CAP2b, pyroGlu-Leu-Tyr-Ala-Phe-Pro-Arg-Val-amide, has a molecular weight of 974.6 and is blocked at both the amino and carboxyl ends. Examination of several national computer protein data bases failed to reveal other peptides or proteins with any sequence homology to CAP2b indicating that this is likely to be a novel insect neuropeptide. This peptide may be a general activator of insect viscera since it causes an increase in heart rate in Manduca and in Drosophila, and has also been implicated in the regulation of fluid secretion by the Malphigian tubules of Drosophila.
The complete coding sequence of a mouse glutamate transporter (mEAAT2) has been cloned by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from adult whole-brain total RNA. Southern hybridization analysis of PCR products amplified from templates derived from various murine adult tissues demonstrated that the transcript for mEAAT2 was specific to the central nervous system. High-affinity transport of D-aspartate, Km value (17 +/- 5 microM), was determined in a vaccinia/T7 RNA polymerase expression system. The deduced amino-acid sequence of mEAAT2 shares 96 and 93% identity with the rat and human EAAT2 homologues, respectively.
Laser scanning confocal microscopy was employed to map the distribution of integrin immunoreactivity at the photoreceptor-retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) interface of the primate retina, and to determine its relationship to the actin cytoskeleton. Immunolabeling using a polyclonal antibody to the human vitronectin receptor (VnR), a heterodimer containing the alpha v subunit in combination with either the beta 3 or beta 5 subunits, is detected primarily on the apical surface of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) in vivo and in vitro. It is also associated with the photoreceptor inner and outer segment cell surfaces. In contrast, immunolabeling using a polyclonal antibody to the human fibronectin receptor (FnR), a heterodimer containing the alpha 5 and beta 1 subunits, is detected principally on the basolateral surface of the RPE and is virtually absent in photoreceptors. A partial three-dimensional reconstruction of the anti-VnR labeling pattern in cone photoreceptors reveals cell surface labeling that originates at the level of the myoid just distal to the outer limiting membrane. It extends distally toward the ellipsoid and terminates at the level of the cone outer segment. Approximately 20-22 immunoreactive foci are distributed evenly around the perimeter of the cone ellipsoid. These foci correspond in number and location to the calycal processes that protrude from the distal portion of the ellipsoid. A double-labeling procedure, employing VnR antibody and a fluorescently labeled phallotoxin (phalloidin), was used to identify regions of VnR co-distribution with filamentous actin (F-actin). One such region includes the VnR-immunoreactive foci at the margins of the cone inner segments and the actin cables that course through the photoreceptor ellipsoid and terminate within the calycal processes. A second zone of co-distribution coincides with the actin-containing, circumferential bundle at the lateral borders of the RPE cells, and a third zone is associated with the apical microvilli of the RPE that ensheath cone outer segments. In order to help identify the specific subunits underlying VnR (alpha v beta 3/5) immunoreactivity, Northern blots of retinal-RPE RNA were probed with alpha 32P-cDNAs to the human alpha v, beta 3, and beta 5 subunits and additional immunolocalization studies were performed using integrin human alpha or beta subunit-specific antisera. The results from these studies strongly suggest that one or more integrins, containing the alpha v and/or beta 5 subunits, are expressed by the photoreceptors and RPE.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Despite the accumulation of a large body of evidence on the function of the kainate/alpha-amino-3-5-methyl-4-iso-xazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptor subtypes within the vestibular nucleus, little is known of the metabotropic receptor subtype. The aim of the present study was to examine the response of guinea-pig medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) neurons in brain stem slices to the selective metabotropic receptor agonist, 1S,3R-amino-cyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylate (ACPD). Sixty percent (12/20) of MVN neurones responded to 1S,3R-ACPD at a concentration of 10(-6) M, compared with 40% (8/20) and 35% (7/20) of neurones at concentrations of 10(-8) and 10(-10) M. Both increases and decreases in firing rate were observed in different neurones: in general, the magnitude of the responses was large and the duration of the responses was long. Recordings from a slice which contained only the MVN confirmed that these responses were produced by the action of the metabotropic agonist within the MVN itself. These results demonstrate that many MVN neurones have functional metabotropic receptors.
Whole-cell patch clamp recordings detected a previously unidentified cGMP-activated membrane conductance in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. This conductance is nonselectively permeable for cations and is completely but reversibly blocked by external Cd2+. The Ca2+ permeability of the hippocampal cGMP-activated conductance was examined in detail, indicating that the underlying ion channels display a high relative permeability for Ca2+. The results indicate that hippocampal neurons contain a cGMP-activated membrane conductance that has some properties similar to the cyclic nucleotide-gated channels previously shown in sensory receptor cells and retinal neurons. In hippocampal neurons this conductance similarly could mediate membrane depolarization and Ca2+ fluxes in response to intracellular cGMP elevation.
Nine normal volunteers performed a 'theory of mind' task while their regional brain blood flow pattern was recorded using the PET [15O]H2O technique. Control conditions induced subjects to attend to the visual and semantic attributes of known objects. In a third condition, subjects had to infer the function of an unfamiliar object from its form. In the 'theory of mind' condition, subjects had to infer function based on the form of both familiar and unfamiliar objects and in addition, model the knowledge and rationality of another mind about the function of these objects. Performance during the 'theory of mind' condition evoked the activation of a distributed set of neural networks with prominent activation of the left medial frontal lobe (Brodmann area 9) and left temporal lobe (Brodmann areas 21, 39/19, 38). This result suggests that when inferential reasoning depends on constructing a mental model about the beliefs and intentions of others, the participation of the prefrontal cortex is required. When access to such knowledge is affected by central nervous system dysfunction, such as that found in autism, modeling other minds may prove difficult.
Tau is a microtubule-associated protein whose transcript undergoes complex regulated splicing in the mammalian nervous system. Exons 2 and 3 of the gene are alternatively spliced cassettes in which exon 3 never appears independently of exon 2. Expression of tau minigene constructs in cells indicate that exon 2 resembles a constitutive exon, while a suboptimal branch point connected to exon 3 inhibits inclusion of exon 3 in the mRNA. Splicing of the two tau exons is controlled by their relative affinities for each other versus the affinities of their flanking exons for them.
Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3)-mediated calcium (Ca2+) signaling is subject to cytosolic and luminal regulatory mechanisms. In Xenopus oocytes, Ca(2+)-sensitive gating of the IP3 receptor (IP3R) produces repetitive waves of Ca2+ release. We examined the role of the luminal Ca(2+)-binding protein calreticulin (CRT) in IP3-mediated Ca2+ signaling by using Ca2+ wave activity as a sensitive Ca2+ release assay. Overexpression of CRT inhibited repetitive IP3-induced Ca2+ waves. Deletion mutagenesis demonstrated that CRT inhibition was mediated by the high affinity-low capacity Ca(2+)-binding domain, which contributes little to Ca2+ storage. This novel function of CRT in intracellular Ca2+ signaling may be regulated by Ca2+ occupancy of the high affinity binding site.
The immunosuppressant rapamycin prevents cell cycle progression in several mammalian cell lines and the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In mammalian cells, rapamycin binds to the small FK506-binding protein, FKBP12, allowing the drug-receptor complex to interact with the 289-kDa RAFT1/FRAP proteins. These proteins, along with their yeast homologs, TOR1/DRR1 and TOR2/DRR2, contain a C-terminal domain with amino acid homology to several phosphatidylinositol (PI) 4- and 3-kinases. However, no direct demonstration of kinase activity for this family of proteins has been reported. We now show that RAFT1, immunoprecipitated from rat brain and MG63 and HEK293 cells, contains PI 4-kinase activity and that rapamycin-FKBP12 has no effect on this activity. Thus, it is likely that, in vivo, rapamycin does not directly inhibit the PI 4-kinase activity and affects the RAFT1/FRAP protein through another mechanism.
Activities of Na+,K(+)-ATPase were measured in brain regions of experimental animals with either congenital or acquired hyperammonemia. In the sparse-fur (spf) mutant mouse, with a genetic X-linked deficiency of ornithine transcarbamylase, an animal model of congenital hyperammonemia, Na+,K(+)-ATPase was increased in frontal cortex (by 57%, P &lt; 0.001), cerebellum (by 61%, P &lt; 0.001), brainstem (by 71%, P &lt; 0.001) and striatum (by 48%, P &lt; 0.01). Four weeks following portacaval anastomosis in the rat, Na+,K(+)-ATPase activities were increased in cerebellum and striatum (by 19%, P &lt; 0.01) and in brainstem (by 28%, P &lt; 0.01). Stimulation of Na+,K(+)-ATPase and the subsequent alteration of neuronal excitability could contribute to the CNS dysfunction characteristic of chronic hyperammonemic syndromes.
We have previously demonstrated that chronic ethanol consumption decreases neurotrophic activity in hippocampal extracts, as assessed by a chick dorsal root ganglia bioassay, but has no effect on hippocampal NGF mRNA or NGF protein levels. We presently report that hippocampal mRNAs encoding neurotrophin-3 and basic fibroblast growth factor are also unaffected. However, in contrast, brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA is reliably decreased, thereby suggesting that ethanol-induced damage of the septohippocampal system may at least partially result from an ethanol-induced decrease in hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression.

We present evidence for the existence of a previously unrecognised enzyme of mitochondrial beta-oxidation in man. This enzyme, which is situated in the mitochondrial matrix and has medium- and long-chain 2-enoyl-CoA hydratase activity, was identified by studying tissues from a patient with a severe deficiency of the trifunctional protein of mitochondrial beta-oxidation. The novel enzyme is present in all tissues studied--heart, liver and cultured skin fibroblasts--but is particularly active in liver. Together with other recently identified enzymes of mitochondrial beta-oxidation, the existence of this new enzyme suggests that two mitochondrial beta-oxidation enzyme systems exist in man: one associated with the mitochondrial membrane, responsible for the beta-oxidation of long-chain fatty acids and one in the mitochondrial matrix, responsible for the oxidation of medium- and short-chain fatty acids.
Ketanserin has higher affinity for 5-HT1D alpha receptors compared to 5-HT1D beta receptors, whereas, GR127935 (N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)phenyl]-2(methyl-4(-(5-methyl- 1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)[1,1-biphenyl]-4-carboxamide), a novel and selective 5-HT1D receptor antagonist, has higher affinity for 5-HT1D beta receptors compared to 5-HT1D alpha receptors. In the present study, we compared the effects of ketanserin and GR127935 on sumatriptan-induced responses of rabbit saphenous vein and guinea-pig jugular vein. In rabbit saphenous vein, contractile responses elicited by sumatriptan were antagonised by ketanserin (pA2 = 6.76) and GR127935 (apparent pA2 = 9.4). In guinea-pig jugular vein, concentration-dependent relaxations evoked by sumatriptan were antagonised by ketanserin and GR127935 (apparent pA2 = 5.9 and 10, respectively). Ketanserin but not GR127935, inhibited Ca(2+)-induced contraction of depolarised strips of guinea-pig ileum longitudinal muscle/myenteric plexus, however, in rabbit saphenous vein and guinea-pig jugular vein, 5-HT receptor mediated responses were insensitive to nifedipine (Ca2+ channel blocker), eliminating the possibility that the inhibitory effects of ketanserin and GR127935 were due to the blockade of voltage-operated Ca2+ channels. Thus, antagonism by ketanserin and GR127935 confirms the presence of 5-HT1D receptors in rabbit saphenous vein and guinea-pig jugular vein. The differential effects of ketanserin and GR127935 on responses elicited by sumatriptan in rabbit saphenous vein and guinea-pig jugular vein may reflect either species differences in 5-HT1D receptors or the involvement of 5-HT1D alpha and 5-HT1D beta receptor subtypes.
Extracellular glutamate was measured by microdialysis in the striatum of ethanol-dependent, freely behaving rats following withdrawal from chronic ethanol treatment. Within 12 h from withdrawal, extracellular glutamate rose to 255% of that in control, chronic sucrose-treated rats. Glutamate output remained elevated for the subsequent 12 h and returned to control levels within 36 h from the interruption of the treatment. The changes in glutamate were time-locked to the overt physical signs of withdrawal. In 12-h ethanol-withdrawn rats an ethanol challenge suppressed the withdrawal signs and reduced the extracellular glutamate. The NMDA receptor antagonist, dizocilpine, reduced both the physical signs of withdrawal and glutamate output. In contrast, diazepam reduced the withdrawal signs but failed to change the glutamate levels. These findings suggest that the increased extraneuronal glutamate reflects overactivity of excitatory neurotransmission during withdrawal. Furthermore, they provide a biochemical rationale for the use of NMDA receptor antagonists and ethanol itself in the treatment of ethanol withdrawal syndrome.
Intermittent treatment of rats with morphine (10 mg/kg s.c., once daily) caused an increase (of about 30%) of the electrically evoked release of [14C]acetylcholine from cholinergic interneurons of superfused striatal slices 1-21 days after morphine withdrawal. Similarly, chronic treatment with escalating doses of morphine (5-50 mg/kg s.c., 3 times daily), causing physical dependence (unlike intermittent treatment), resulted in an enduring enhanced response of these neurons towards depolarization. Following chronic morphine treatment this adaptive increase of acetylcholine release was associated with a slight but long-lasting decrease of the (delta-opioid receptor-mediated) maximal inhibitory effect of [Met5]enkephalin, whereas upon intermittent drug treatment delta-opioid receptor desensitization was observed 1 day after opiate withdrawal only. Also in slices of the nucleus accumbens both intermittent as well as chronic morphine administration caused a long-lasting increase of the electrically evoked [14C]acetylcholine release. Therefore, we hypothesize that an enhanced (re)activity of striatal and accumbal cholinergic neurons, which are regulated by dopaminergic neurons of the ventral mesencephalon, may represent a long-lasting neuroadaptive effect of morphine (and possibly other drugs of abuse) playing a crucial role in behavioral sensitization associated with enhanced vulnerability to drugs of abuse.
The aim of the present study was to clarify the acute effect of alcohol drinking on muscle sympathetic nerve activity and other cardiovascular variables in young healthy human volunteers. Seven volunteers (25.0 +/- 4.7 years in age, weighing 59.9 +/- 5.9 kg) were instructed to lay down on a bed, and muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) was microneurographically recorded from the tibial nerve, simultaneously with an electrocardiogram, blood pressure with Finapres and autosphygmomanometer, cardiac output by impedance cardiography, and skin blood flow by laser Doppler flowmetry. After a 1-h rest, the subjects drank alcohol (0.6 g/kg) and were remained in resting position for 105 min. Blood ethanol levels indicated that they were moderately intoxicated. Heart rate constantly increased until 30 min after the ingestion, and maintained a peak level. MSNA was slightly but significantly suppressed just after the ingestion, and was gradually enhanced until the end of the experiment, showing a significant difference from the control level until 40 min in burst rate and until 25 min in total MSNA after the ingestion. Blood pressure showed an abrupt and transient increase at first, then gradual decrease until 30 min after the ingestion, and maintenance of the resting level until the end of the experiment. Cardiac output showed no constant tendency and no significant differences after the ingestion with wide interindividual variation. Skin blood flow increased 15 min after the ingestion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We evaluated the role of neuropeptide Y (NPY), a potent endogenous orexigenic signal, in the ventromedial hypothalamic (VMH) lesion-induced hyperphagia in rats. To produce hyperphagia and excessive weight gain, adult female rats received bilateral electrolytic or sham lesions in the VMH. Concurrently, a permanent intracerebroventricular cannula was implanted in the third ventricle of the brain. After a recovery period, these rats were passively immunized against NPY to evaluate the role of endogenous NPY on hyperphagia. The results showed that intraventricular administration of NPY antibodies abolished the hyperphagia in VMH-lesioned rats. These revelations are in agreement with the notion that altered hypothalamic NPY release or action may underlie the hyperphagia and excessive weight gain seen in response to structural damage in the VMH.
It has previously been shown that the hilus of the dentate gyrus responds to odors (e.g. toluene) with a burst of fast waves and to electrical stimulation of the olfactory bulb with an evoked potential consisting of an early component immediately after the stimulus artifact, a second component with a 16-18-ms latency and additional late components. Spectral analysis revealed that odor-induced fast-wave bursts in the olfactory bulb and dentate gyrus both had a peak frequency of 15-20 Hz and were highly coherent. Unilateral intrahippocampal injections of colchicine or kainic acid were used in an attempt to destroy granule and pyramidal cells, respectively, while saline was injected on the opposite side as a control. Recordings from chronically implanted electrodes in the olfactory bulb and dentate gyrus demonstrated that saline had no effect while either neurotoxin abolished the odor-induced fast waves. In addition, the late 16-18-ms component of the dentate-evoked potentials after single-pulse stimulation of the olfactory bulb was abolished by either kainic acid or colchicine; the early dentate response, probably a volume-conducted olfactory response, was not abolished. Histological analysis indicated that kainic acid produced widespread non-specific damage in the hippocampal formation. Kainic acid-treated tissue exhibits a thinning of granule cell and molecular layers of the dentate gyrus as well as cell loss in CA3 and part of CA1.
The nystagmus and motion perception of two astronauts were recorded during Earth-vertical axis rotation and during off-vertical axis rotation (OVAR) before and after 7 days of spaceflight. Postflight, the peak velocity and duration of per- and postrotatory nystagmus during velocity steps about the Earth-vertical axis were the same as preflight values. During OVAR at constant velocity (45/s, tilt angles successively 5, 10, and 15 degrees), the mean horizontal slow-phase eye velocity (bias), produced by the 'velocity storage mechanism' in the vestibular system, and the peak-to-peak amplitude (modulation) in horizontal eye velocity and position, generated from the output of otolith afferents, were also the same before as after flight. There were, however, changes in the vertical eve position and in the perceived body motion during OVAR. The angle of the perceived body path described as a cone was larger in both astronauts postflight. One astronaut experienced either a large cone angle with its axis upright, or a smaller cone angle with its axis tilted backwards, accompanied by an upward vertical eye drift. These results suggest an increase in the sensitivity of the otolithic system after spaceflight and a longer period of readaptation to Earth's gravity for otolith-induced responses than for canal-induced responses. Our data support the hypothesis that just after spaceflight the CNS generally interprets changes in the otolith signals to be due to translation rather than to tilt.
The objective of this study was to test whether changes in central blood volume can induce reflex effects on sweating. Multi-unit skin sympathetic nerve activity (SSA) was recorded from the posterior cutaneous nerve of the forearm or radial nerve branches in 11 healthy volunteers. Skin electrical resistance and skin blood flow were recorded in the area innervated by the impaled nerve fascicle. Sudomotor nerve traffic and sweating was induced by whole body heating. Lower body negative pressure (LBNP) and tilting (30 degrees head up) was used for blood volume displacement from the chest to the lower body. Low levels of LBNP (5 and 10 mmHg) had no effect on blood pressure, heart rate or skin blood flow but induced a prompt inhibition of SSA and a reduced number of transient skin resistance changes (n = 9), both rapidly returning to control levels after cessation of LBNP. Quantitatively, the effect was similar at both levels of LBNP. Head up tilting also reduced SSA (n = 3, 19 tilt manoeuvres). A capacity for mental stress-induced SSA increase remained during LBNP. Spontaneous fluctuations in blood pressure did not affect SSA, arguing against arterial (high-pressure) baroreceptors modulating SSA. Consequently, the present results indicate that unloading of cardiopulmonary (low-pressure) volume receptors reduces sympathetic sudomotor nerve traffic and sweating in warm subjects. It is suggested that the reflex contributes to counteracting hypovolaemia.
The reported ability of benzodiazepines to increase human erythrocyte aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity and reverse the disulfiram-induced inhibition of ALDH was reexamined. When ALDH activity assays were carried out spectrophotometrically on a hemoglobin-free lysate of human erythrocytes with propionaldehyde as substrate, addition of diazepam (10 mumol/l) did not affect the enzyme activity. When assays were carried out on intact or hemolysed erythrocytes using high performance liquid chromatographic technique with 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde as substrate, no significant increase in erythrocyte ALDH activity was found in the presence of chlordiazepoxide, oxazepam, diazepam, or desmethyldiazepam in the concentration range 1-20 mumol/l. Rather, a significant decrease (about 50%) in activity was obtained when lysed cells were incubated with 20 mumol/l chlordiazepoxide. Diazepam inhibited the rat liver mitochondrial low Km ALDH activity by about 50%. Disulfiram inhibited the ALDH activity almost completely in assays on human erythrocyte or rat liver mitochondrial ALDH. The ALDH activity was not regained by the subsequent addition of diazepam, nor was the effect of disulfiram reduced when diazepam was added prior to disulfiram. In an alcoholic subject who was followed during onset of disulfiram (Antabuse) therapy, the concurrent use of diazepam did not prevent a rapid decline in blood ALDH activity. The present results suggest that benzodiazepines do not increase ALDH activity in vitro, nor interfere with the inhibition of ALDH by disulfiram.
Vasopressin (VP), given intracerebrally to rats, can induce antipyresis, motor disturbances, and increases in arterial blood pressure. The possibility that the VP-binding sites in the fundus striati (FStr) could participate in these effects was investigated. After a bilateral injection of 100 pmol of VP into the FStr, the fever induced by an injection of the lipopolysaccharide of Escherichia coli (50 micrograms/kg ip) was not affected. Bilateral injections of 100 pmol of VP did not induce motor disturbances or alterations in body temperature after either of two successive injections. In contrast, bilateral injections of VP into urethan-anesthetized rats induced dose-dependent increases in arterial pressure without affecting heart rate. This increase was blocked by a V1 antagonist; oxytocin and a V2 agonist were ineffective. In keeping with this preliminary pharmacological analysis, radio-ligand-binding studies of the FStr revealed binding sites in the FStr exhibiting a binding profile typical of the V1 subtype. This study suggests that the V1 receptors in the FStr could participate in the central regulation of the blood pressure.

Free GABA levels were measured in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 74 neurological patients suffering from cerebral cysticercosis (n = 9), Parkinson's disease (n = 5), multiple sclerosis (n = 6), epilepsy (n = 24), meningeal tuberculosis (n = 6), viral encephalitis (n = 3), cerebrovascular disease (n = 8) and several kinds of dystonia (n = 5). A statistical significant four-fold elevation in free GABA levels was found in patients with cerebral cysticercosis. A non statistical significant two-fold increase in free GABA levels was also encountered in the CSF of patients affected by cerebrovascular disease and viral encephalitis. No changes in CSF free GABA levels were found in patients suffering from any of the other disorders. It is suggested that free GABA levels may be elevated in the CSF of patients suffering from neurological diseases which course with inflammation and tissular necrosis such as cerebral cysticercosis. Much work is needed however to establishd whether CSF free GABA levels can be used as a diagnostic tool in at least some type of these patients.
The morphological and morphometrical features of the ACTH-immunoreactive cells of the anterior pituitary gland were compared between adult rats with intact adrenals, adult rats without adrenals, and adult rats with regenerated adrenocortical nodules. The removal of the adrenal glands produced a great increase in the number and size of the cytoplasmic processes of the ACTH-immunoreactive cells that sometimes establish contact with those of the neighbouring immunoreactive cells. In addition, in this experimental group, the ACTH-cell percentage and the mean cell, cytoplasmic, and nuclear areas were greatly increased in comparison with those found in control animals. Several regenerated adrenocortical nodules were observed in the small-bowel segment of rats transplanted with neonatal adrenal glands. The percentage and morphometrical values of the pituitary ACTH-reactive cells of this experimental group, although slightly increased relative to the rats with intact adrenals, were greatly decreased in relation to those of the adrenalectomized animals. It is concluded that the neonatal adrenal tissue regenerated after its transplantation into adult rats, a process that modified the percentage, the morphological characteristics, and the morphometrical values of the ACTH-immunoreactive cells of the adrenalectomized rats.
Buspirone, an azaspirone serotonin (5-HT) 1A partial agonist, has been approved by the FDA as an anxiolytic. It has been tested for use in depression, panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and schizophrenia as well. Several trials have indicated that it may prove to be a useful agent for augmentation of other psychotropic medications in these disorders. We review the literature supporting the potential use of buspirone as an augmenting agent.
As part of a WHO project on parasuicide, the medications used for self-poisoning in the Stockholm area were studied. The prescribing rates of the medications were estimated from an independent survey of prescriptions. Anxiolytics, hypnotics, and analgesics were the drugs most commonly used for parasuicide. Related to prescribing rates, antipsychotics and anxiolytics represented an increased risk for parasuicide compared to the average for psychotropics. Analgesics, on the other hand, showed a lower risk for parasuicide. The low number of self-poisonings with antidepressants may reflect that suicidal individuals are seldom prescribed antidepressants and/or that antidepressants actually prevent suicidal acts. As we have shown earlier for completed suicides, underprescribing and therapeutic failure seem to be greater problems with antidepressants than their use for self-poisoning.
We performed a clinical, biochemical, and genetic study in 16 patients from 11 families with adult-onset acid maltase deficiency. All patients were compound heterozygotes and carried the IVS1(-13T --&gt; G) transversion on one allele; the second allele harbored either a deletion of a T at position 525 in exon 2 (7 probands, 64%) or a deletion of exon 18 (1 proband, 9%). Deterioration of handicap was related to age, and decrease in vital capacity to duration of the symptomatic stage. Respiratory insufficiency was never the first manifestation. The levels of activity of serum creatine kinase and of alpha-glucosidase in peripheral blood cells or muscle were helpful for the diagnosis, but did not have prognostic value. The adult form of acid maltase deficiency appears to be both clinically and genetically rather homogeneous; decrease of alpha-glucosidase activity is the final common pathway leading to destruction of muscle fibers and progression of muscle weakness over a period of years.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is characterized by a defect in dystrophin, a high molecular weight protein that is located predominantly in muscle, but which has been detected in brain. Brain dystrophin has been localized to the synapse, in the postsynaptic density (PSD), and is absent in the mdx mouse, an animal model of human DMD. To define the potential pathogenic role of dystrophin deficiency in cognitive impairment, we examined the protein in human DMD brain. The 427-kd dystrophin was absent in the PSD from DMD brain, but was normally expressed in the brain from an age-matched control subject. Our findings indicate that dystrophin is deficient in human DMD cortical synapses and provide a potential pathogenic mechanism for cognitive impairment.


The study of experimental models of parkinsonism has contributed to the knowledge of basal ganglia functions, as well as to the establishment of several hypothesis for the explanation of the cause and expression of central neurodegenerative disorders. In this review we present and discuss several models such as 6-hydroxydopamine, MPTP and manganese, all of them widely used to characterize the behavioral, cellular and molecular mechanisms of parkinsonism.
Movement disorders, in general, are characterized by a breakdown in the integrated coordination of posture and motion by multiple brain and muscular systems. In the expression of parkinsonism, in particular, critical and altered structures such as substantia nigra, appear to be related to the cortex-basal ganglia and thalamus-basal ganglia sub-circuits.

As a result of economic and health care changes the role of the nurse continues to expand and research-based practice is changing its focus. Limited resources and staff shortages have revealed new areas for research study. Clinical nurses have valuable questions to share that can form the basis of future nursing research. The purposes of the study were to: (a) Determine the priorities for nursing research within a single acute care teaching hospital; (b) Promote nurses' awareness of the importance of research-based practice; (c) Facilitate the development of future nursing research. It was assumed that nurses who carry out direct and indirect patient care roles are &quot;experts&quot; and therefore, are in a position to identify what they see as important questions and in need of further investigation. Three hundred and sixty-six nurses (24%) responded to round #1 of the open ended survey and submitted a total of 912 clinical practice issues. Initially, issues were broadly categorized into clinical and indirect clinical themes in a series of subcategories. Round #2 was conducted to identify nurses' ratings of the priority of the final 123 research issues for future clinical research and practice improvement efforts. Results of the two rounds will be presented, including issues identified by neuroscience nurses. This information will provide a valuable source for additional neuroscience research at either the local or international level.
Shared governance has been depicted as a way of increasing staff nurse involvement: in work, motivation, quality of worklife, organizational commitment, power to influence patient care, and professional pride. This management style is typically implemented on a corporate basis in non-unionized organizations. However, it was identified as an initiative that could enable staff growth, innovation, autonomy and professionalism on a single nursing unit within a unionized hospital. The process of implementing a Shared Governance model on a 29 bed neuroscience unit in an 850 bed acute care teaching hospital is described.
Single-neuron activity was recorded in several areas of the cerebral cortex when monkeys performed a movement-precueing reaction time task. In such a task, information provided by a first signal ('preparatory signal', PS) refers to what has to be done in response to a second signal ('response signal', RS). Two monkeys were trained to rotate a handle by performing wrist flexion/extension movements while two levels of frictional resistance were applied to the manipulandum. The PS provided complete, partial or no prior information about movement direction (flexion or extension) and/or the level of the frictional force (weak or strong). Since providing partial prior information about either movement parameter shortened reaction time (RT)--RT being shorter when movement direction than movement force was precued--, as compared to the condition in which no prior information was provided, the analysis of changes in neuronal activity during the preparatory period (PP), i.e., the instructed delay between PS and RS, makes the study of the neuronal mechanism underlying the specification of movement parameters possible. The activity of 411 neurons of the primary motor (MI), premotor (PM), somatosensory (SI) and parietal (PA) cortex was recorded during task performance. Many more neurons changed selectively their activity in relation to movement direction than in relation to movement force, not only during PP, but also during RT and movement time (MT). The number of purely direction-related neurons increased, whereas the number of purely force-related neurons decreased from SI to PA, then to MI and finally to PM. During PP, selective activity changes were related only to one movement parameter, whereas during RT and MT, a large population of neurons changed its activity in relation to both movement direction and force, especially in MI. These data provide further evidence for the clustering of distinct neuronal populations responsible for programming movement direction and force.
Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by the development of central nervous system tumours. The NF2 gene was recently cloned and found to encode a protein, schwannomin (or merlin), with homology to the band 4.1 superfamily. This superfamily of proteins includes ezrin, moesin, radixin, and talin, as well as several protein tyrosine phosphatases. How does a cytoskeleton-associated protein act as a tumour suppressor? While this fundamental question remains unanswered, recent studies have begun to address key questions regarding the function of schwannomin. In this review, we examine what is known about the band 4.1 superfamily and how this information pertains to schwannomin. In addition, we summarize recent studies of schwannomin itself.
Microtubules are essential components of the cytoskeleton required for axonal growth. To investigate how changes in tubulin transport and expression may affect axon regeneration, injury in the adult mammalian central nervous system was studied. Axotomized retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) that do not regenerate were compared with RGCs that regenerate their axons when the optic nerve is replaced with a peripheral nerve graft. When RGC axons regenerated through peripheral nerve grafts, the rate of slow transport increased but decreased when no regrowth occurred. To investigate the molecular mechanisms that mediate these responses, alterations in tubulin mRNA levels after injury were examined. Total tubulin mRNA levels fell after injury in the optic nerve but increased in those RGCs that regenerated their axons into a peripheral nerve graft. Further, the expression of four separate beta-tubulin isotypes in injured rat RGCs was characterized. mRNA levels for all four isotypes decreased in RGCs after injury in the optic nerve. How the autoregulation of tubulin expression may contribute to the changes in beta-tubulin isotype expression after injury is discussed.
After injury in the central nervous system of adult mammals, many of the axons that remain attached to their intact cell bodies degenerate and decrease in calibre. To understand this process better, we have investigated the relationship between axonal loss, cell loss, and the time course of changes in axonal calibre. Optic nerves (ONs) were crushed and the numbers and sizes of axons remaining close to the cell bodies (2 mm from the eye) and near the site of the lesion (6 mm from the eye) were determined for nerves examined between 1 week and 3 months after injury. Comparison with the retinal ganglion cell (RGC) counts from the same animals revealed that axonal loss was concomitant with cell body loss for at least the first 2 weeks after injury. However, there was no significant change in the calibre of the surviving neurons until 1 month after injury. Thereafter, the axonal calibre was decreased equally along the ON. No progressive somatofugal atrophy was observed. These decreases in axonal calibre occur much later than the immediate drop in neurofilament (NF) expression that also follows injury. The late effect of injury on axonal calibre suggests that NF expression is not the sole determinant of axon size of the RGC fibers in the ON. Other factors are likely additional contributing factors, such as the decreased rate of axonal transport that would help maintain the axonal neurofilament content.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a late-onset degenerative disease of motor neurons, characterized by abnormal accumulation of neurofilaments (NFs) in perikarya and proximal axons. Two lines of evidence suggest that neurofilament accumulation can play a crucial role in ALS pathogenesis. First, transgenic mouse models overexpressing NF proteins were found to develop motor neuron degeneration and, second, variant alleles of the NF heavy-subunit (NF-H) gene have been found in some human ALS patients. Our axonal transport studies with transgenic mice overexpressing the human NF-H gene, a model of ALS, revealed defects of intracellular transport not only for neurofilament proteins but also for other cytoskeletal proteins and organelles such as mitochondria. Therefore, we propose that neurofilament accumulation in mice causes neurodegeneration by disrupting axonal transport, a mechanism that may account for the pathogenesis of ALS.
Fluidity of the lipid bilayer near the surface of the membranes and in the core of the lipid bilayer of synaptosomal membranes isolated from the cortex, hippocampus, striatum, hypothalamus, midbrain, pons-medulla oblongata and cerebellum of mice at 1, 2, 4, 12, and 18 months of age was examined using electron spin resonance spectrometry. Using the spin labels, 5- and 16-DS-stearic acid, the order parameter for 5-DS was found to be increased in all brain areas with aging and a much greater increase was found in the hippocampus and cerebellum at 18 months of age. The results demonstrated that there was a different pattern of the increase of the parameter between 15-DS and 16-DS in synaptosomal membranes of different brain regions with aging.


Spillovers noradrenaline (NA) and adrenaline (A) into plasma were examined before and after i.v. administration of 0.3-0.5 mg kg-1 desipramine (DMI) in 19 normal volunteers. DMI decreased the total body spillover of NA by 20 +/- 4%, but increased that of A by 45 +/- 10%. The results indicate differential sympathoadrenal actions of DMI, characterized by inhibition of NA release from sympathetic nerves and stimulation of A secretion from the adrenals. These effects of DMI provide an explanation for some of the cardiovascular complications of tricyclic antidepressant therapy and may also help to explain how sympathoadrenal function is differentially regulated.
1. The ability of CP-99,994, and its less active enantiomer, CP-100,263, to inhibit spontaneous behaviours and hyperalgesia induced by central infusion of the NK1 receptor agonist, GR73632 or intraplantar injection of formalin was investigated in rats and gerbils. 2. GR73632 (3 pmol, i.c.v.)-induced foot tapping in gerbils was dose-dependently inhibited by CP-99,994 (0.1-1 mg kg-1, s.c.), but not by CP-100,263 (10 mg kg-1, s.c.) using pretreatment times up to 60 min. The centrally active dose-range for CP-99,994 was increased to 1-10 mg kg-1 s.c. with a higher challenge dose of GR73632 (30 pmol, i.c.v.). 3. In gerbils, intrathecal (i.t.) injection of GR73632 (30 pmol) elicited behaviours (licking, foot tapping or flinching and face washing) which closely resembled, but which was less specifically localized than, behaviours seen in animals injected with formalin (0.1-5%) into one hindpaw. 4. In rats, CP-100,263, but not CP-99,994 (up to 30 mg kg-1), inhibited the early phase response to intraplantar injection of 5% formalin (ID50 = 13.9 mg kg-1). The late phase was inhibited by both compounds (ID50 values 36.3 and 20.9 mg kg-1, respectively). In gerbils, there was marginal evidence for enantioselective inhibition of the early phase induced by formalin (2%). The ID50 values were 6.2 mg kg-1 for CP-99,994 and 13.4 mg kg-1 for CP-100,263. 5. Intrathecal injection of GR73632 (30 pmol) caused thermal hyperalgesia in igerbils which was inhibited enantioselectively by s.c. administration of CP-99,994 (ID50= 2.46 mg kg-1), but not by CP-100,263 (30 mg kg-1).6. In gerbils, intraplantar injection of formalin (0.1%) caused thermal hyperalgesia which was inhibited by CP-99,994 (ID50= 1.1 mg kg-1, s.c.). There was a nonsignificant trend for an anti-algesic effect of CP-100,236 (estimated ID50 = 8.2 mg kg-1, s.c.).7 These findings support the proposal that NK1 receptor antagonists may be useful in the clinical management of pain and reinforce the need to dissociate specific and nonspecific antinociceptive effects of available compounds.
This paper presents a model describing the temporal and neurotopological structure of syntactic processes during comprehension. It postulates three distinct phases of language comprehension, two of which are primarily syntactic in nature. During the first phase the parser assigns the initial syntactic structure on the basis of word category information. These early structural processes are assumed to be subserved by the anterior parts of the left hemisphere, as event-related brain potentials show this area to be maximally activated when phrase structure violations are processed and as circumscribed lesions in this area lead to an impairment of the on-line structural assignment. During the second phase lexical-semantic and verb-argument structure information is processed. This phase is neurophysiologically manifest in a negative component in the event-related brain potential around 400 ms after stimulus onset which is distributed over the left and right temporo-parietal areas when lexical-semantic information is processed and over left anterior areas when verb-argument structure information is processed. During the third phase the parser tries to map the initial syntactic structure onto the available lexical-semantic and verb-argument structure information. In case of an unsuccessful match between the two types of information reanalyses may become necessary. These processes of structural reanalysis are correlated with a centroparietally distributed late positive component in the event-related brain potential.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In recent years much has become known about the substrates in the brain involved in the regulation of masculine sexual behavior and the involvement of specific neurochemicals in these brain areas. In the present paper the experimental data concerning the involvement of a number of brain areas in sexual behavior are reviewed, in relation to an incentive motivational theory of sexual behavior. The review is restricted to the involvement of opioids and dopamine, of which the role in sexual motivation and behavior is best documented. Opioids in the medial preoptic area (mPOA) impair sexual performance, although the endogenous opioids systems may be quiescent in normal, sexually active rats. Dopamine in the mPOA has a facilitative role in the masculine sexual performance. The corticomedial amygdala is involved in processing of sensory information, especially olfactory stimuli, which are subsequently directed towards the mPOA. Local beta-endorphin infusion interferes with this processing. Endogenous opioids in the ventral tegmental area activate the mesoaccumbens dopamine system and stimulate the sexual motivation. Increased dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens correlates with increased sexual motivation and vice versa. The basolateral amygdala plays an essential role in the association of environmental stimuli with reward and therefore in the expression of conditioned sexual motivation. Finally, the reviewed data are integrated and a comprehensive view on the relations between various neural substrates is composed.
To determine if gene regulation may play a role in behaviorally-induced morphological plasticity in the brain, we used in situ hybridization to measure levels of mRNA for the immediate early gene transcription factor NGFI-A (also known as ZENK, zif/268, egr-1 and Krox 24). Brains of periadolescent male rats exposed to 2-4 days of the following behavioral treatments were compared: (1) group housing in a complex environment (EC); (2) individual housing with daily handling (HIC); and (3) individual handling (IC). Quantitative analysis of the autoradiograms revealed that EC rats had significantly higher levels of NGFI-A than IC rats in regions of cortex previously shown to exhibit morphological plasticity (most pronounced in visual cortex), but not in frontal cortex where no dendritic changes have been detected. HIC rats were intermediate between the two groups. These data support an association between structural plasticity and altered patterns of immediate early gene expression.
Reaction time (RT) is shorter when the irrelevant location of the stimulus corresponds to the relevant location of the response: When a subject is to perform a left or right keypress according to the colour of a stimulus delivered either to the left or to the right of a fixation, RT is typically shorter when the location of the stimulus corresponds to the location of the response (e.g., left stimulus/left response) than when it does not (e.g., left stimulus/right response). Umilt and Nicoletti (1990) have suggested that this effect, known as the Simon effect' in the literature, occurred at the response selection stage, a stage whose duration depends on the effectors used to perform the task. In the present study, this effect and that of the finger response repertoire (within- versus between-hand composition) were found to be additive, which does not support the response selection hypothesis of the Simon effect.


Low dimensional chaos is a property of many physiological oscillatory systems including the brain. Time series of sleep EEG records have been analyzed in the framework of recent developments in nonlinear dynamics. One of the characteristics of a chaotic time series is its attractor dimension. The running attractor dimension of a chaotic time series may reflect changes in states more accurately than manually scored records. In the present study the attractor dimensions of consecutive EEG segments of five sleep records were analyzed. The block of the EEG segment (window) was shifted by various lengths along the entire sleep data of each subject thus producing a running attractor dimension curve for each record. The attractor dimension values for different sleep stages were significantly different. The pattern of the running attractor dimension closely matched the scored hypnograms in these five sleep records.
In this study, 10 men, 10 women, and 13 genetic male transsexuals, all of them righthanded, were tested on two verbal (CV and nonsense polysyllables) and two nonverbal (melodies and triple tone [3T]) dichotic tasks to investigate relations between hormone therapy and auditory cerebral specialization for speech and non speech stimuli in adults. At time of testing, all transsexuals had been made under hormonal treatment for at least one year and eight had had corrective surgery. ANOVA results showed a right ear advantage and similar pattern of performance for the three groups in the treatment of speech. In nonverbal tasks, interactions revealed a left ear advantage in the processing of melodies and 3T for men only: women and transsexuals exhibited similar performance in both nonverbal tasks. In accord with generalization from the animal literature, cautious interpretation of the data is some possible hormonal involvement, in adults, in the modulation of right hemispheric cognitive processing.
Iloperidone, 1(-)[4(-)[3(-)[4-(6-fluro-1,2-benzisoxazol-3-yl)-1- piperidinyl]propoxy]-3-methoxyphenyl]ethanone, is currently undergoing clinical trials as a potential antipsychotic agent. Iloperidone was found to be extensively metabolized to a number of metabolites by rats, dogs, and humans. LC/MS/MS was used to characterize and identify metabolites of iloperidone present in complex biological mixtures obtained from all three species. Identification of some of the unknown metabolites in rat bile was achieved successfully by combination of LC/NMR and LC/MS with a minimum amount of sample cleanup. The utility of coupling a semipreparative HPLC to LC/MS instrument for further characterization of collected metabolites was demonstrated. It was shown that iloperidone was metabolized by O-dealkylation processes to yield 6-fluoro-3(-)[1-(3-hydroxypropyl)-4-piperidinyl]-1,2-benzisoxazole and 1(-)[4(-)[3(-)[4-(6-fluoro-1,2-benzisoxazol-3-yl)-1- piperidinyl]propoxy]-2-hydroxyphenyl]ethanone. Oxidative N-dealkylation led to the formation of 6-fluoro-3-(4-piperidinyl)-1,2-benzisoxazole and a secondary metabolite, 3(-)[(4-acetyl-2-methoxy)phenoxy]propionic acid. Iloperidone was reduced to produce 4(-)[3(-)[4-(6-fluoro-1,2-benzisoxazol-3-yl)-1-piperidinyl]- propoxy]-3-methoxy-alpha-methylbenzenemethanol as the major metabolite in humans and rats. Hydroxylation of iloperidone produced 1(-)[4(-)[3(-)[4-(6-fluoro-1,2-benzisoxazol-3-yl)-1- piperidinyl]propoxy]-2-hydroxy-5-methoxyphenyl]ethanone and 1(-)[4(-)[3(-)[4-(6-fluoro-1,2-benzisoxazol-3-yl)-1-piperidinyl]-3 -methoxyphenyl]propoxy]-2-hydroxyethanone, the later of which was found to be the principal metabolite in dogs. The identities of all these metabolites were established by comparing the LC/MS retention times and mass spectral data with synthetic standards.

Subdural recordings from 8 patients and depth recordings from 3 patients via rows of electrodes with 5-10 mm spacing were searched for signs of significant local differentiation of coherence calculated between all possible pairs of loci. EEG samples of 2-4 min were taken during 4 states: alertness, stage 2-3 sleep, light surgical anesthesia permitting the patient to respond to questions and electrical seizures. Coherence was computed for all frequencies from 1 to 50 Hz or 0.3-100 Hz; for comparisons the mean coherence over each of 6 or 7 narrower bands between 2 and 70 Hz was used. Whereas the literature supports the view that EEG coherence is usually substantial over many centimeters, the hypothesis here tested--and found to be well above stochastic expectations--is that significant structure occurs in the millimeter domain for EEG recorded subdurally or within the brain. In both the subdural surface samples and those from temporal lobe depth electrode arrays coherence declines with distance between electrodes of the pair, on the average quite severely in millimeters. This is nearly the same for all frequency bands. For middle bands like 8-13 and 13-20 Hz, mean coherence typically declines most steeply in the first 10 mm, from values indistinguishable from 1.0 at &lt; 0.5 mm distance to 0.5 at 5-10 mm and to 0.25 in another 10-20 mm in the subdural surface data. Temporal lobe depth estimates decline about half as fast; coherence &gt; or = 0.5 extends for 9-20 mm and &gt; or = 0.25 for another 20-35mm. Low frequency bands (1-5, 5-8 Hz) usually fall slightly more slowly than high frequency bands (20-35, 35-50 Hz but the difference is small and variance large. The steepness of decline with distance in humans is significantly but only slightly smaller than that we reported earlier for the rabbit and rat, averaging less than one half. Local coherence, for individual pairs of loci, shows differentiation in the millimeter range, i.e., nearest neighbor pairs may be locally well above or below average and this is sustained over minutes. Local highs and lows tend to be similar for widely different frequency bands. Coherence varies quite independently of power, although they are sometimes correlated. Regional differentiation is statistically significant in average coherence among pairs of loci on temporal vs frontal cortex or lateral frontal vs. subfrontal strips in the same patient, but such differences are usually small.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Patients having a hypothalamic hamartoma frequently present epileptic attacks of laughter, and they later experience multiple additional seizure types, which invariably lead to a severe drug-resistant epilepsy. If this association is now well-known, relationships between the hypothalamic mass and the different types of seizures remain still mysterious. We report the case of a 16-year-old girl suffering from this peculiar epileptic picture, in whom a stereo-EEG study was performed, allowing us to record both the hamartoma, the neighboring hypothalamic structures, and other bilateral cortical areas. It showed that gelastic fits were strictly linked to ictal discharges which began and remained well localized in the hamartoma. Conversely, atonic seizures, which might result from a secondary epileptogenesis, admitted a widely extended bilateral frontal cortical origin, sparing the lesion, and slightly involving the posterior hypothalamus. Stereotactic radiosurgery of the hamartoma proved to be ineffective on both types of seizures, probably because of the too low dose of X-rays delivered (18 grays), as suggested by the absence of hypothalamic mass changes on MRI. Such data, never reported to our knowledge, seem able to contribute to a better understanding of this very peculiar epileptic syndrome, and perhaps to a better adapted therapeutic management.
Partial complementary DNAs of an oxytocin (OT) receptor were cloned from rat brain and uterus. The complementary DNAs encoded for the same amino acid sequence, which showed a high degree of homology with the human and porcine uterine OT receptors, except for a region in the third intracellular loop. Antibodies were raised against nonoverlapping sequences of the third intracellular loop of this rat OT receptor. Using these antisera, OT receptor expression was demonstrated in the brain, pituitary, mammary gland, and uterus by immunocytochemistry. In the brain, several areas including the ventromedial hypothalamus, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the ventral pallidum, the paraventricular nucleus, and the dorsal part of the supraoptic nucleus, demonstrated OT-receptor immunoreactivity. However, no immunoreactivity was detected in two areas of the brain known to contain dense OT-binding sites by receptor autoradiography studies: the ventral hippocampus and the central nucleus of the amygdala. In the pituitary, both the anterior and posterior lobes were positive for OT receptor immunoreactivity, whereas the intermediate lobe was negative. These results demonstrate that the same receptor type is expressed in both peripheral OT target tissues and the brain, and also suggest the possibility that a different OT receptor subtype may be present in some areas of the brain.
We report here the isolation and characterization of the entire rat annexin V gene, which is shown to span about 40 kbp, and to consist of 14 exons, 13 introns and two promoters. Previous studies found that both human and chicken annexin V genes bear 13 exons and one promoter, which possess no TATA sequence or CCAAT box, and have a high GC content. In the present study, we found that one of the promoters for rat annexin V shares these features, which are typical among promoters for housekeeping genes, and that this promoter, as expected, exerted its transcription in all of tissues we examined. In contrast, another promoter was found to possess not only a TATA box but also a glucocorticoid-responsive element, and was shown to express messages in a relatively limited number of tissues, including brain. We also demonstrated the presence of at least four species of rat annexin V transcripts that were generated by distinct transcription initiation and alternative splicing.
We tested the hypothesis that somatosensory discrimination of roughness (microgeometry) but not of shape (macrogeometry) would activate the parietal operculum (PO) in man. It was also investigated whether a simple square pulse indentation of the skin on the index finger would activate the PO. Regional cerebral blood flow was measured with [15O]butanol and positron emission tomography in a total of 20 normal volunteers. Ten subjects used their right hand to discriminate objects that differed in roughness and similar smooth objects that differed in length. Ten other subjects pressed a button when they felt a square pulse indentation of the skin on their right index finger in a somatosensory reaction time task. Discrimination of roughness activated one field in the PO contralaterally and two fields ipsilaterally to the stimulated hand. The discrimination of length activated one field in the PO located ipsilaterally to the stimulated hand. The somatosensory reaction time task also activated one contralateral and two ipsilateral fields in the PO, and these fields partially overlapped the activated fields in the roughness discrimination task. Based on the extension of these fields and their overlaps we conclude that there exist at least one part of the contralateral PO and at least two parts of the ipsilateral PO that can be activated by somatosensory stimulation of the right hand. We argue further that the contralateral activated part contains a region than can be activated by roughness.

Taste preferences and aversions were examined before and after the placement of bilateral, electrophysiologically guided electrolytic lesions of the thalamic taste area in five Old World monkeys. The only consistent changes shown by all lesioned monkeys on the 30-min, single-bottle intake test were a significantly attenuated consumption of 0.003 M quinine hydrochloride and a significantly elevated intake of 0.1 M sodium chloride. These specific taste deficits are contrary to the global hypogeusia predicted on the basis of previous research. A revised definition of the boundaries of the gustatory thalamus is suggested and the merits of the thalamic monkey preparation are compared with those of the decerebrate rat model.
Neurotrophin 3 (NT3) belongs to the neurotrophin family, which also includes nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and neurotrophin 4/5. NT3 mRNA is widely expressed in the rodent nervous system, but the physiological function of the native protein is still unclear. Genetically modified cell lines that produce physiological amounts of NT3 can provide a useful tool in the elucidation of the NT3 effects in the adult central nervous system (CNS). Genetically modified rat primary skin fibroblasts expressing and secreting human NT3 (hNT3) were prepared and characterized. In vitro, cell lines derived from different retroviral constructs expressed hNT3 mRNA, as determined by PCR and RNA blot analysis. Secretion of biologically active hNT3 was confirmed by specific elicitation of neurite outgrowth from cultured chick primary sympathetic and sensory neurons and from rat fetal locus coeruleus neurons in the presence of hNT3-producing cell conditioned media. In vivo, implanted fibroblasts survived well up to the maximal experimental time points of 6 weeks (brain) and 4 weeks (spinal cord) and continued to express hNT3 mRNA in vivo. As early as 2 weeks postgrafting, specific sprouting of host sensory neurites in response to hNT3-producing grafts was observed in the spinal cord. In contrast, hNT3-producing cerebral grafts did not induce a sprouting response different from that observed with control grafts. These findings establish the existence of a regionally different responsiveness of the CNS axons to local hNT3 overexpression.
The present study demonstrates that morphine- and codeine-like molecules are present in Schistosoma mansoni following HPLC separation and identification with an appropriate commercially available antibody. Furthermore, the endogenous material, corresponding to morphine, mimics authentic morphine in its ability to induce immunocyte rounding and immobility, an action that is naloxone sensitive. The codeine-like material is not found at high concentrations compared to the morphine-like material, indicating, as in mammals and Mytilus edulis, the potential rapid conversion of codeine to morphine. Coincubation with human leukocytes increases the endogenous level of this material in adult worms, indicating the presence of a positive feedback loop. Last, EDTA, a chelator of divalent cations, has a strong stimulating effect in the synthesis of morphine-like material by the worm as noted by higher levels of this material in its presence. Taken together, the results suggest that this parasite may utilize this immune downregulating molecule in its effort to escape host immunosurveillance as well as in inhibiting an immune response directed against itself.
As a step toward identifying the molecular defect in patients afflicted with progressive myoclonus epilepsy type 1 (EPM1), we have assembled a cosmid contig of the candidate EPM1 region in 21q22.3. The contig constitutes a collection of 87 different cosmids spanning 405 kb based on a derived HindIII restriction map. Potential CpG-rich islands have been identified based on the restriction map generated from eight different rare-cutting enzymes. This contig contains the genetic material required for the isolation of expressed sequences and the identification of the gene defective in EPM1 and possibly other disorders mapping to this region.
Positron emission tomography (PET) and the selective radioligand [11C]raclopride were used to measure D2 receptor occupancy in several studies in schizophrenic patients and healthy subjects. Clinical effects of the treatment were recorded, and drug plasma concentrations measured. The hypothesized curvilinear relationship between receptor occupancy and drug plasma concentrations was supported experimentally. We suggest that there may be a distinct threshold for antipsychotic effect at about 70% D2 receptor occupancy, and another threshold for extrapyramidal side effects above 80% D2 receptor occupancy. Receptor occupancy was high even at low plasma drug concentrations. Our data indicate a need to establish dose-response curves for the conventional neuroleptics. Such a dose-response relationship might be expected for a much lower dose interval than those previously examined.
To measure the directionality of the external ear of the echolocating bat, Eptesicus fuscus, the left or right eardrum of a dead bat was replaced by a microphone which recorded signals received from a sound source that was moved around the stationary head. The test signal was a 0.5-ms FM sweep from 100 kHz to 10 kHz (covering all frequencies in the bat's biosonar sounds). Notches and peaks in transfer functions for 7 tested ears varied systematically with changes in elevation. For the most prominent notch, center frequency decreased from about 50 kHz for elevations at or near the horizontal to 30-40 kHz for elevations 30 degrees-40 degrees below the horizontal. A second notch shifted from about 85 kHz to 70 kHz over these same elevations. Above the horizontal, a peak that flanks these notches changed in amplitude by 15 dB with changes in elevation. Removal of the tragus from the external ear disrupted the systematic movement of notch frequencies with elevation but did not disrupt changes in the peak's amplitude. Smaller changes in notch frequency also occurred with changes in azimuth, so monaural notch information alone cannot determine the position of sound sources away from the median plane. However, because bats routinely keep the head pointed at the target's azimuth, median-plane localization occurs with monaural cues delivered to the two ears. Corresponding changes with elevation occurred in the impulse-response, which consists of a series of 3-6 peaks spaced 10-20 microseconds apart. The time separation of two prominent impulse peaks systematically increased from 22-26 microseconds above the horizontal to about 36-40 microseconds below the horizontal, and removal of the tragus disrupted this time shift below the horizontal.
We have recently demonstrated multiple fucosyltransferase (FT) activity in rat spermatogenic cells. To complement these findings, here we identify and partially characterize the glycosidic linkage specificity of FTs present in spermatozoa from caput and cauda epididymides. Analysis of the acceptor substrate specificity of the FTs by thin-layer chromatography indicated that both caput and cauda sperm expressed alpha(1-2)-, alpha(1-3)-, alpha(1-4)-FTs as demonstrated by fucose incorporation into phenyl-beta-D-galactoside, 2'-fucosyllactose, and lacto-N-fucopentaose-I, respectively. Spermatozoa from the cauda epididymidis exhibited significant decreases in the levels of alpha(1-2)-, alpha(1-3)-, alpha(1-4)-FTs, and of total soluble FTs in comparison to spermatozoa from the caput epididymidis. The relative ratio of alpha(1-3)-FT to total FT activity appeared to be significantly higher than those of alpha(1-2)- or alpha(1-4)-FTs, in spermatozoa both from caput and cauda epididymides. Using different types of low molecular weight acceptors and the selective inhibition of the FT by N- ethylmaleimide, we have demonstrated that at least alpha(1-2)-FT is different from alpha(1-3)- or alpha(1-4)-FTs. Kinetic studies also showed that alpha(1-2)-FT is different from alpha(1-3)- or alpha(1-4)-FTs as demonstrated by apparent Km and Vmax values. Moreover, alpha(1-3)- and alpha(1-4)-FT activities in cauda sperm were found to be highly sensitive to Mn2+ but showed differential responses to divalent cations. In contrast, both alpha(1-3)- and alpha(1-4)-FTs seemed to be relatively less sensitive to Mg2+. Thus, these results not only demonstrate the presence of multiple FTs in rat epididymal sperm but also differentiate individual FTs with regard to their kinetic properties and sensitivity to both inhibitor and divalent cations.
The isoquinoline carboxamide photoaffinity probe PK14105, a ligand with selectivity for mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptors, has been established to photolabel an 18-kDa protein. When this radioactive probe is used to photolabel rat mitochondrial preparations, a protein of 10 kDa, in addition to the 18-kDa protein, is identified following electrophoretic separation and extended autoradiography. These proteins are referred to herein as pk10 and pk18, respectively. Both proteins exhibited the same specificity to a series of ligands used in competition photolabeling studies and are mutually present at apparently similar ratios across multiple tissues. Subcellular fractionation of rat adrenals indicated that pk10 and pk18 comigrated with the mitochondrial marker enzyme cytochrome c oxidase. In numerous paradigms examining specificity, photolabeling of pk18 invariably coincided with photolabeling of pk10. In detergent-solubilized extracts of rat adrenal mitochondria, pk18 and pk10 coimmunoprecipitated when using antisera raised against pk18. Furthermore, purification of the photolabeled proteins using nondenaturing conditions demonstrated that pk18 and pk10 copurify substantiating their intimate association. A set of three antisera, specific to different regions of pk18, did not recognize pk10 on Western blots. Likewise, partial amino acid sequence of peptide fragments indicate that pk10 is not derived from proteolytic cleavage of pk18. These data suggest that pk10 represents another component of mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptors whose identity is not apparent with any known protein.
Running in a novel wheel can serve as a nonphotic zeitgeber to entrain or phase shift circadian rhythms in hamsters. In this study, hamsters were entrained to a light:dark schedule of 14:10 h but had no access to running wheels. At four different phase points of the light cycle, hamsters were transferred to constant darkness and provided with running wheels. All hamsters began running shortly after transfer and were allowed to continue running at their own volition. Approximately 20% of the hamsters transferred at zeitgeber time (ZT) 23 (ZT 12 = lights out) ran more than 4 h after transfer and showed phase advances of the circadian activity rhythm by as much as 15 h, while hamsters that ran less than 4 h on average did not phase shift. A similar result was observed for hamsters transferred at ZT 2. Hamsters transferred at ZT 5 and 8 also did not phase shift if they ran less than 4 h, although the relation between longer runs and phase shifts became less evident. A sustained run in excess of 4 h appeared to be associated with large phase advances. These results show that under certain conditions, a single sustained bout of wheel-running activity is capable of phase shifting the circadian pacemaker by more than 12 h.
Fibroblast contraction of stressed collagen matrices results in activation of a cAMP signal transduction pathway. This pathway involves influx of extracellular Ca2+ ions and increased production of arachidonic acid. We report that within 5 min after initiating contraction, a burst of phosphatidic acid release was detected. Phospholipase D was implicated in production of phosphatidic acid based on observation of a transphosphatidylation reaction in the presence of ethanol that resulted in formation of phosphatidylethanol at the expense of phosphatidic acid. Activation of phospholipase D required extracellular Ca2+ ions and was regulated by protein kinase C. Ethanol treatment of cells also inhibited by 60-70% contraction-dependent release of arachidonic acid and cAMP but had no effect on increased cAMP synthesis after addition of exogenous arachidonic acid or on phospholipase A2 activity measured in cell extracts. Moreover, other treatments that inhibited the burst of phosphatidic acid release after contraction--chelating extracellular Ca2+ or down-regulating protein kinase C--also blocked contraction activated cyclic AMP signaling. These results were consistent with the idea that phosphatidic acid production occurred upstream of arachidonic acid in the contraction-activated cAMP signaling pathway.
The novel nitric oxide synthase inhibitor 7-nitroindazole (7-NI) is relatively specific for the neuronal isoform of the enzyme and in this study we have used this compound to investigate the physiological role of perivascular nitric oxide-containing nerves in the cerebrovascular bed. Following injection of 7-NI (25 or 50 mg/kg, i.p.), cerebral blood flow and glucose utilization were measured in the conscious rat using the fully quantitative [14C]iodoantipyrine and 2-[14C]deoxyglucose techniques, respectively. Neither dose of the drug produced any change in arterial blood pressure, confirming a lack of effect upon the endothelial isoform of the enzyme, although there was a pronounced decrease in heart rate (-28% by 10 min postinjection). Throughout the brain 25 mg/kg 7-NI i.p. resulted in decreases in blood flow of between -20% in the hippocampus and -58% in the substantia nigra. Increasing the dose to 50 mg/kg resulted in a further generalized decrease, to almost -60% in parts of the thalamus and hippocampus, but in every animal this higher dose of 7-NI also produced randomly distributed areas of relative hyperaemia, which were most commonly found in those areas where the most intense hypoperfusion was otherwise in evidence. Despite these changes in blood flow, in all but a very few areas of the brain no significant decrease in glucose use was measured at either of the two doses of 7-NI. Thus despite the greater specificity of 7-NI for neuronal nitric oxide synthase, the cerebrovascular effects of the drug in vivo are very similar to that reported for the arginine analogues. However, these data do suggest that nitric oxide-releasing neurones in the brain may have an important role to play in the regulation of cerebral blood flow.

Although four American Presidents have been assassinated (Lincoln, Garfield, McKinley, Kennedy), only the assassins of Garfield (Charles Julius Guiteau) and McKinley (Leon Franz Czolgosz) were tried, convicted, and executed for their crime. In 1882 Edward Charles Spitzka, a young New York neurologist with a growing reputation as an alienist, testified at the trial of Guiteau. He was the only expert witness who was asked, based on his personal examination of the prisoner, a direct question concerning the mental state of Guiteau. Spitzka maintained the unpopular view that Guiteau was insane. In spite of aggressive and spirited testimony on Spitzka's part, Guiteau was convicted and hanged. However, even before the execution it was acknowledged, by some experts, that Spitzka was undoubtedly right. About 20 years later, in 1901, Edward Anthony Spitzka, the son of Edward Charles Spitzka, was invited to conduct the autopsy on Czologsz, the assassin of McKinley. At the time Spitzka the younger, who had just published a detailed series of papers on the human brain, was in the fourth year of his medical training. It was an unusual series of fortuitous events that presumably led to Edward A. Spitzka conducting the autopsy on the assassin of the President of the United States while still a medical student. This, in light of the fact that other experts were available. Each Spitzka went on to a career of note and each made a number of contributions in their respective fields. It is however, their participation in the 'neurology', as broadly defined, of the assassins of Presidents Garfield and McKinley that remains unique in neuroscience history. Not only were father and son participants in these important events, but these were the only times that assassins of US Presidents were tried and executed.
History seen by a professional historian, based only on the documented record, always incomplete and liable to bias, can be unreliable. Modern history seen by a protagonist must surely be among the most unreliable. Yet, I must try, in a limited scope, to show the human drama as well as the flood on which we are floating, unable to dump the baggage of past biases. Our points of view, priorities, and positions on all the controversial issues and even the well established, noncontroversial ones, are not as rational as we would like to think but are strongly conditioned by where we came from. I wil depend on selected vignettes of the way things looked when I was a student, a young postdoctoral fellow and an Assistant Professor, to compare with the way they look now, in each of half a dozen mesoscopic domains--those in between the most basic subcellular or molecular and the higher levels of learning and cognition. The half dozen constitute, of course, anything but a representative fraction of neuroscience. But they add up to a nontrivial segment of the big picture with respect to the integrative aspects of our science. Most of the fronts that grew into today's popular branches are not represented, but a small set of particular interest and probability of further surprises.
The period between 1600 and 1800 was one of great change in the history of science, generally, and in the history of chemistry, specifically. It opened with Francis Bacon's visionary recognition of the benefits to mankind that would accrue from the expansion of scientia and closed with the overthrow of the phlogiston hypothesis. New chemical knowledge resulted from the efforts of the alchemists, especially in Paracelsians, and of the phlogistic philosophers, some of it recorded by writers of magic books (Thorndike, 1958; Camporesi, 1989). The authors of these works reflected 'the general mentality ... imbued with magic, occult beliefs, unreal suggestions, 'voices', and 'rumours', ... 'errors' and 'prejudices'. In respect to brain chemistry there appeared, beside the fantastic, elements of fact that characterise this period as embracing the 'pre-history' of neurochemistry.
Huntington's disease (HD) is associated with the expansion of a CAG repeat in the huntingtin gene. Molecular analysis of the repeat in Japanese HD patients and normal controls was performed. The size of the CAG repeat ranged from 37 to 95 repeats in affected subjects and from seven to 29 in normal controls. A significant correlation was found between the age of onset and the CAG expansion. The length of the expanded repeat is unstable in meiotic transmission and large increases occur in paternal transmission. At the same time the CCG repeat polymorphism adjacent to the CAG repeat was analysed and haplotypes of HD chromosomes were identified. Strong linkage disequilibrium was found between the CAG repeat expansion and an allele of (CCG)10 in Japanese HD chromosomes. It is distinct from that described previously in western populations. Western HD chromosomes strongly associate with an allele of (CCG)7. Possible mechanisms underlying the disequilibrium in Japan are discussed.
Ca(2+)-dependent inhibition of native and isolated ryanodine receptor (RyR) calcium release channels from sheep heart and rabbit skeletal muscle was investigated using the lipid bilayer technique. We found that cytoplasmic Ca2+ inhibited cardiac RyRs with an average Km = 15 mM, skeletal RyRs with Km = 0.7 mM and with Hill coefficients of 2 in both isoforms. This is consistent with measurements of Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) in skinned fibers and with [3H]-ryanodine binding to SR vesicles, but is contrary to previous bilayer studies which were unable to demonstrate Ca(2+)-inhibition in cardiac RyRs (Chu, Fill, Stefani &amp; Entman (1993) J. Membrane Biol. 135, 49-59). Ryanodine prevented Ca2+ from inhibiting either cardiac or skeletal RyRs. Ca(2+)-inhibition in cardiac RyRs appeared to be the most fragile characteristic of channel function, being irreversibly disrupted by 500 mM Cs+, but not by 500 mM K+, in the cis bath or by solublization with the detergent CHAPS. These treatments had no effect on channel regulation by AMP-PNP, caffeine, ryanodine, ruthenium red, or Ca(2+)-activation. Ca(2+)-inhibition in skeletal RyRs was retained in the presence of 500 mM Cs+. Our results provide an explanation for previous findings in which cardiac RyRs in bilayers with 250 mM Cs+ in the solutions fail to demonstrate Ca(2+)-inhibition, while Ca(2+)-inhibition of Ca2+ release is observed in vesicle studies where K+ is the major cation. A comparison of open and closed probability distributions from individual RyRs suggested that the same gating mechanism mediates Ca(2+)-inhibition in skeletal RyRs and cardiac RyRs, with different Ca2+ affinities for inhibition. We conclude that differences in the Ca(2+)-inhibition in cardiac and skeletal channels depends on their Ca2+ binding properties.
The avian forebrain exhibits neurogenesis in adulthood, with neuronal production from ependymal/subependymal zone (SZ) precursor cells. To follow the commitment of newborn cells to neuronal lineage, we used their expression of the Hu family of neuronal RNA-binding proteins to identify them before their migration from the SZ. Adult canaries were injected with [3H]thymidine as a marker of DNA replication, sacrificed after varying intervals, stained for Hu, and autoradiographed. We found that Hu was not expressed by premitotic precursor cells, but rather appeared within hours in their neuronal progeny, which did not embark on parenchymal migration until 4 to 7 days later. Hu was expressed by all neurons, but not glia, both in vivo and in vitro, as determined by ultrastructural analysis as well as co-localization of Hu and cell-type selective antigens. In addition, co-staining for Hu and N-cadherin, whose expression is down-regulated on neuronal emigration from the SZ, revealed their initial co-expression by neuronal daughter cells still within the SZ. These results suggest that Hu expression may be used as a very early indicator of neuronal differentiation by SZ cells. Furthermore, the data indicate that in the adult avian brain, neuronal phenotype is established within hours of precursor mitosis, even though the neuronal daughter cells do not initiate parenchymal migration for at least 4 days thereafter, following their down-regulation of N-cadherin.
We have analyzed the distribution of putative cholinergic neurons in whole-mount preparations of adult Drosophila melanogaster. Putative cholinergic neurons were visualized by X-gal staining of P-element transformed flies carrying a fusion gene consisting of 5' flanking DNA from the choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) gene and lacZ reporter gene. We have previously demonstrated that cryostat sections of transgenic flies carrying 7.4 kb of ChAT 5' flanking DNA show reporter gene expression in a pattern essentially similar to the known distribution of ChAT protein. Whole-mount staining of these same flies by X-gal should thus represent the overall distribution of ChAT-positive neurons. Extensive staining was observed in the cephalic, thoracic, and stomodeal ganglia, primary sensory neurons in antenna, maxillary palps, labial palps, leg, wing, and male genitalia. Primary sensory neurons associated with photoreceptors and tactile receptors were not stained. We also examined the effects of partial deletions of the 7.4 kb fragment on reporter gene expression. Deletion of the 7.4 kb fragment to 1.2 kb resulted in a dramatic reduction of X-gal staining in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). This indicates that important regulatory elements for ChAT expression in the PNS exist in the distal region of the 7.4 kb fragment. The distal parts of the 7.4 kb fragment, when fused to a basal heterologous promoter, can independently confer gene expression in subsets of putative cholinergic neurons. With these constructs, however, strong ectopic expression was also observed in several non-neuronal tissues.
Axon-associated cell adhesion molecules (AxCAMs) play crucial roles in the formation, maintenance, and plasticity of functional neuronal networks. We report here a molecular cloning of a novel AxCAM, BIG-2. BIG-2 is a member of TAG-1/F3 subgroup of the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily, with six Ig-like domains, four fibronectin type III-like repeats, and a glycosyl phosphatidylinositol-anchoring domain. Recombinant BIG-2 protein had a neurite outgrowth-promoting activity when used as a substrate for neurons in vitro. To survey the spatial expression pattern of BIG-2 in comparison with other TAG-1/F3 subgroup members, an in situ hybridization analysis was performed in adult and developing rat brain sections with riboprobes specific for BIG-2, BIG-1, TAG-1, and F3. The four AxCAM transcripts displayed cell type-specific expression patterns with overlapping and distinct profiles. In adult hippocampus, for example, we observed BIG-1 mRNA specifically in granule cells of the dentate gyrus, BIG-2 mRNA highly in the CA1 pyramidal cells, TAG-1 mRNA predominantly in the CA3 pyramidal cells, and F3 mRNA in neurons in all of these fields. These results suggest that BIG-2, BIG-1, TAG-1, and F3 may play important roles in the formation and maintenance of specific neuronal networks in the brain.
GM1 in the nuclear membrane, previously shown to be up-regulated during neurite outgrowth, has been found to influence nuclear Ca2+ flux during differentiation of Neuro-2a cells. Nuclei were isolated from cultured Neuro-2a cells before and after neuraminidase-induced neuritogenesis and incubated with 45Ca2+ for varying periods to determine uptake/efflux of Ca2+. At 5, 10, and 15 min 45Ca2+ levels in nuclei from differentiated cells were significantly lower than those in nuclei from untreated cells. The same result was obtained when the GM1 level was elevated artificially by preincubation of the nuclei in 10 microM GM1. In experiments designed to measure efflux specifically, isolated nuclei preincubated in GM1 released 45Ca2+ more rapidly than untreated nuclei. We conclude that one role of GM1 in the nuclear membrane is to alter Ca2+ regulatory mechanisms in the nucleus following onset of neuronal process outgrowth.
Portal-systemic encephalopathy (PSE) is characterized by neuropsychiatric symptoms progressing through stupor and coma. Previous studies in human autopsy tissue and in experimental animal models of PSE suggest that alterations in levels of brain amino acids may play a role in the pathogenesis of PSE. To assess this possibility, levels of amino acids were measured using in vivo cerebral microdialysis in frontal cortex of portacaval-shunted rats administered ammonium acetate (3.85 mmol/kg, i.p.) to precipitate severe PSE. Sham-operated rats served as controls. Portacaval shunting resulted in significant increases of levels of extracellular glutamine (threefold, p &lt; 0.001), alanine (38%, p &lt; 0.01), aspartate (44%, p &lt; 0.05), phenylalanine (170%, p &lt; 0.001), tyrosine (140%, p &lt; 0.001), tryptophan (63%, p &lt; 0.001), leucine (75%, p &lt; 0.001), and serine (60%, p &lt; 0.001). Administration of ammonium acetate to sham-operated animals led to a significant increase in extracellular glutamine and taurine content, but this response was absent in shunted rats. The lack of taurine release into extracellular fluid following ammonium acetate administration in portacaval-shunted rats could relate to the phenomenon of brain edema in these animals. Ammonium acetate administration resulted in significant increases in the extracellular concentrations of phenylalanine and tyrosine in both sham-operated and portacaval-shunted rats. Severe PSE was not accompanied by significant increases in extracellular fluid concentrations of glutamate, aspartate, GABA, tryptophan, leucine, or serine, suggesting that increased spontaneous release of these amino acids in cerebral cortex is not implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic coma.
The effect of selective inhibition of monoamine oxidase (MAO) subtypes A and B on striatal metabolism of DOPA to dopamine (DA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylacetic acid (homovanillic acid; HVA) was studied in halothane-anesthetized rats 3 weeks after unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the substantia nigra. Implantation of bilateral microdialysis probes allowed simultaneous quantitation of metabolite production on lesioned and control sides. The DOPA was administered as a 15-min bolus of 1 mM solution in the striatal microdialysate. Rats were pretreated with the selective MAO-A inhibitor clorgyline, or the selective MAO-B inhibitors deprenyl or TVP-101 [2,3-dihydro-N-2-propynyl-1H-inden-1-amine-(1R)-hydrochloride]. Intrastriatal infusion of DOPA caused an increased efflux of DA, DOPAC, and HVA, which was greater on the intact side. Clorgyline, but not deprenyl or TVP-101, increased post-DOPA DA efflux on both intact and lesioned sides. Clorgyline also caused a marked suppression of post-DOPA DOPAC and HVA effluxes, whereas only mild effects were produced by the MAO-B inhibitors. There was no evidence for a differential effect of MAO-B inhibition on efflux of DA or metabolites in the lesioned as compared with the control striatum. The results indicate a major role for MAO-A in DA metabolism both intra- and extraneuronally in the rat striatum.
We have previously shown that in cell extracts from rat striatum, cyclic AMP response element (CRE) binding protein (CREB), rather than AP-1 proteins, preferentially interacts with the CRE-2 element of the proenkephalin second messenger-inducible enhancer, even under conditions in which AP-1 proteins are highly induced. Here we use primary striatal cultures to permit a more detailed analysis of CRE-2 function and protein binding in relevant neural cell types. By transfection we find that in primary striatal cultures, as in transformed cell lines, the CRE-1 and CRE-2 elements are required for significant induction by cyclic AMP. We report that cyclic AMP induction of the proenkephalin gene in striatal cultures is protein synthesis independent, excluding a role for newly synthesized proteins like c-Fos. We also show that cyclic AMP induces CREB phosphorylation and that phosphorylated CREB interacts strongly with CRE-2 and weakly with CRE-1. The predominant protein bound to CRE-1 is not CREB, however, and remains to be identified. Despite some prior predictions, we do not find a role for c-Fos in cyclic AMP regulation of proenkephalin gene expression in neurons.
Cultured cerebellar granule cells become vulnerable to excitatory amino acids, especially to NMDA and kainate, by 9 days in vitro. In the same time, the sensitivity of cells to (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA), in terms of AMPA-induced toxicity or 45Ca2+ uptake, was very low. The low AMPA responsiveness was due to receptor desensitization, because agents known to block desensitization, cyclothiazide and the lectins concanavalin A and wheat germ agglutinin, rendered granule cells vulnerable to AMPA and produced a pronounced stimulation of 45Ca2+ accumulation. 45Ca2+ influx was induced specifically by AMPA-receptor stimulation, because it was blocked virtually completely by 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzoquinoxaline (NBQX) and the benzodiazepine GYKI 52466 (selective non-NMDA receptor antagonists). Nevertheless, indirect routes activated by cellular responses to AMPA-receptor stimulation contributed significantly to the overall 45Ca2+ influx. These included Ca2+ uptake through NMDA-receptor channels, voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels, and via Na+/Ca2+ exchange. However, nearly one-fifth of the total 45Ca2+ influx remained unaccounted for and this estimate was similar to 45Ca2+ influx observed under Na(+)-free conditions. This observation suggested that a significant proportion of the Ca2+ flux passes through the AMPA-receptor channel proper, a view supported by Co2+ uptake into nearly all granule cells on exposure to AMPA in the presence of cyclothiazide. Results are discussed in light of the reported AMPA receptor-subunit composition of cerebellar granule cells in vitro.
Luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) stimulates the development of cellular FSH immunoreactivity in the perinatal hamster adenohypophysis. Because neuropeptide Y (NPY) can act directly on rat adenohypophysial cells to stimulate FSH and LH release and potentiate the stimulatory effect of LHRH on FSH and LH release, we investigated the effects of NPY alone and in combination with a low, ineffective dose of LHRH on inducing cellular FSH immunoreactivity in the neonatal hamster adenohypophysis. Neonatal female pituitary glands were grafted beneath the right renal capsules of hypophysectomized-ovariectomized adult hamster hosts with a catheter implanted in the external jugular vein. After treatment, hosts were decapitated and graft tissue was stained for FSH and LH immunoreactivity. The mean percentage of adenohypophysial cells that stained for FSH was low (2.8%) in grafts in hosts infused continuously with heparinized saline vehicle for 7 days. In other hosts, peptides were pulsed through the catheter every 12 h for 7 days. The mean percentage of FSH cells also was low after pulsing 6 ng LHRH or 2 micrograms NPY but increased substantially when the two peptides were pulsed simultaneously. No differences in the mean percentage of LH cells existed between any of the groups. The results demonstrate that NPY and LHRH can synergize to induce cellular FSH immunoreactivity in the neonatal female hamster.
Nerve fibers containing activin-like immunoreactivity have been shown to be present within the area of the supraoptic nucleus. In this study, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from supraoptic magnocellular neurosecretory cells were used to characterize the electrophysiological effects of this peptide. Nanomolar concentrations of recombinant activin-A caused the appearance of a voltage-independent current reversing near -40 mV. At resting potential, membrane depolarization caused by this current was sufficient to accelerate action potential discharge, suggesting that activin receptors expressed on magnocellular neurosecretory cells may play a role in the control of neurohypophysial hormone release.
In a previous retrospective study, 4 of 9 patients with benign intracranial hypertension were unexpectedly positive for intrathecal synthesis of immunoglobulin (Ig) G by quantitative measurement (log IgG index). This was remarkable as the only disease among many studied that showed such a discrepancy. A further study was done, now prospectively. Log IgG index values were elevated in 2 of the 11 new cases. As before, qualitative measurement (isoelectric focusing) gave uniformly negative results. Five of the 6 instances where the log IgG index was elevated could be accounted for, in fact, by abnormal values of constituent variables other than cerebrospinal fluid IgG. Quantitative tests for intrathecal synthesis of IgG can give misleading results on their own. Immunological mechanisms most probably are not involved in the pathogenesis of benign intracranial hypertension.
The response to botulinum toxin type A was compared after two injection techniques in 45 patients with blepharospasm. Initially, patients were treated according to a triple injection technique; two injections into the upper eyelid and one injection into the lower eyelid. Subsequently, without altering the dose, the same patient group received two further injections into the pretarsal portion of the orbicularis oculi muscle of the upper lid. Triple injections were given in 227 treatments, of which 81% were successful. Mean duration of benefit was 8.5 weeks. Additional pretarsal injections were given in 183 treatment sessions. The number of successful treatments significantly increased, to 95% (P &lt; 0.001), and the mean duration of benefit increased to 12.5 weeks (P &lt; 0.001). Ptosis occurred significantly less often after pretarsal injections (P &lt; 0.01). Patients with combined blepharospasm and involuntary levator palpebrae inhibition responded better to the pretarsal injection technique.
A wide variety of potential risk factors for acute exacerbations in multiple sclerosis were evaluated in a one year case-control study. Eighty nine consecutive patients with clinically definite multiple sclerosis and relapsing remitting course presenting with a relapse between January and December 1992 were compared with patients matched for age, sex, and degree of disability, who did not experience clinical exacerbations during the same period. Only potential risk factors occurring in the three months preceding the interview were considered patients. Relapsing patients reported no significant increase in the frequency of any risk factor in the three month period before exacerbation compared with the control group. These results suggest that most relapses are not preceded by the conditions commonly considered as risk factors.
The effect of high dose intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) treatment was studied in six patients with multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN). All patients responded to treatment (0.4 g/kg for five consecutive days) in an open trial. The effect of IVIg treatment was confirmed for each patient in a single patient, double blind, placebo controlled trial. Four patients received two IVIg treatments and two placebo treatments, and two patients received one IVIg and one placebo treatment in a randomised order. Five out of six patients responded to IVIg but not to placebo. One patient responded to IVIg in the same manner as to placebo treatment. Thus IVIg treatment can lead to improvement of muscle strength in patients with MMN.
Numerous studies have established the key role of the Golgi apparatus (GA) in post-translational processing, transport and targeting of proteins destined for secretion, lysosomes and plasma membranes. Moreover, several studies performed in our laboratories have shown that the size of the immunocytochemically detected neuronal GA is a reliable index of neuronal activity in aging, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It has been suggested that in AD there is decreased neuronal activity, e.g. in terms of glucose metabolism and protein synthetic capability. To further explore the hypothesis of decreased neuronal activity in AD, in this study the size of the GA was measured in pyramidal neurons of the CA1 area of the hippocampus of non-demented controls and AD patients. The size of the GA was measured separately in neurons with and without neurofibrillary tangles (NFT). Moreover, in order to establish a correlation between the density of NFT and the size of the GA, the density of extraneuronal NFT was determined around each neuron and related to the size of its GA. The results, quantified by image analysis, indicate that there is a significant reduction in GA size in the neurons of the CA1 area of the hippocampus of AD patients. However, there was no significant relationship between the size of the GA and the presence or absence of intracellular NFT. In addition, there was no correlation between the density of extracellular NFT and GA size of adjacent neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Injection of kaolin and carrageenan into the knee joint of cats or monkeys resulted in an acute inflammation. Four hours after injection of the knee joint, efferent activity could be evoked in articular afferent fibers and in dorsal root filaments. We interpret this efferent activity to be dorsal root reflexes (DRRs). Under our experimental conditions, the DRRs were generally synchronized compound action potentials, although in some cases single-unit activity was also observed. 2. DRRs were not produced in animals with uninflamed knee joints and normal body temperatures. 3. Recordings from two different sites on cut dorsal root filaments ipsilateral to the inflamed knee joint allowed the determination of the conduction velocities of groups of afferent fibers carrying DRRs. The DRRs occurred in A beta-, A delta-, and C fibers. However, in these experiments the peripheral destination of the afferent fibers was unknown. 4. To prove that DRRs occurred in joint afferents, recordings were made from two different sites on the proximal stump of the medial articular nerve that innervated the inflamed knee. The DRRs were again found in all fiber types, i.e., group II, III, and IV (A beta, A delta, and C) articular afferent fibers. 5. Compound DRRs were recorded from the central end of a cut dorsal root filament after electrical stimulation at C fiber intensity of a dorsal root adjacent to the filament. This DRR activity was eliminated by extensive dorsal rhizotomies of the L2-S1 roots.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Properties of nucleus incertus (NIC) neurons projecting to the cerebellar flocculus were studied in alert cats by using chronic unit and eye movement recording and antidromic activation. Projection of these neurons onto the flocculus was verified with retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase after injections in the flocculus. 2. Bipolar stimulation electrodes were implanted into the &quot;middle&quot; zone of each flocculus because this zone is known to be involved in the control of horizontal eye movements. The dorsomedial aspect of the pontine tegmentum was explored with microelectrodes during stimulation of both flocculi. The majority of neurons antidromically activated from the flocculus were found in the caudal part of the NIC. 3. Of the 69 neurons activated from the flocculus, 44 were classified as burst-tonic (BT) neurons; 34 discharged in relation with horizontal movements of the eye, 10 in relation with vertical movements. Of the 14 remaining neurons, 6 were not related to eye movements and 8 were classified as burst neurons. The BT neurons of the NIC displayed a great sensitivity to both horizontal eye position and horizontal eye velocity. 4. This study demonstrates the presence of a new group of horizontal eye movement related BT neurons situated in the NIC. The fact that they project to the horizontal floccular zone emphasizes the importance of the functional specialization of the different Purkinje cell zones.
1. Whole cell recordings and high-speed fluorescence imaging were used to investigate the spatial and temporal characteristics of Ca2+ influx during synaptic activity in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. Brief, subthreshold trains of synaptic potentials elicited by Schaffer collateral stimulation produced transient increases in [Ca2+]i in the apical dendrites near the site of synaptic input. The rises in [Ca2+]i were not due to Ca2+ entry through N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-activated or non-NMDA-activated glutamate channels, but were reduced by low concentrations of Ni2+. Hyperpolarizing prepulses caused an increase in the synaptically evoked Ca2+ transients, whereas strong hyperpolarization during the train prevented the rise in [Ca2+]i. The data suggest that subthreshold synaptic activity can open low-voltage-activated (T-type) Ca2+ channels and produce a local increase in intradendritic [Ca2+]. Such local increases in [Ca2+]i may be important for modulating the strength of synaptic connections.
The administration of L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) to patients with Parkinson's disease is known to produce acute effects that include the reduction of rigidity as well as delayed therapeutic actions involving the resumption of complex motor behavior. In order to examine the potential role of dopamine (DA) cell activity in mediating these responses, the effects of acute and repeated L-DOPA administration on the electrophysiological activity of the residual dopamine (DA) neurons were examined in rats that had received partial 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced DA lesions. DA cell activity was assessed along three dimensions: (1) the relative proportion of DA neurons exhibiting spontaneous spike firing, (2) their basal firing rate, and (3) their firing pattern. Following 6-OHDA-induced DA depletion, rats were treated for 1 month with saline or L-DOPA. In addition, rats from each group received either an acute injection of L-DOPA or saline on the day of recording. In rats receiving repeated saline treatment, the DA neurons recorded following acute L-DOPA administration were firing at significantly slower basal firing rates and exhibited less burst firing when compared to saline-pretreated rats given acute saline. In contrast, DA cells recorded from rats that had received repeated L-DOPA administration for 4 weeks followed by an acute saline injection did not exhibit any significant differences from DA cells of intact control rats with respect to basal firing rate or firing pattern; however, there was a substantial increase in the proportion of DA neurons exhibiting spontaneous spike firing after correcting for 6-OHDA-induced cell loss. In addition, in rats receiving repeated L-DOPA treatment, the DA cells recorded following acute administration of L-DOPA showed significantly less of a reduction in firing rate when compared to the cells recorded following acute L-DOPA in the saline treatment group. These results show that: (1) acute L-DOPA administration appears to exert its actions by DA autoreceptor stimulation, whereas (2) repeated L-DOPA administration increases the proportion of spontaneously active DA neurons in partially lesioned rats. As a result, repeated L-DOPA administration would be expected to cause an increase in spike-dependent DA release as a consequence of the greater proportion of DA cells showing spontaneous activity. This may be the major factor underlying the delayed therapeutic benefits of L-DOPA therapy in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
It has been suggested that the gene duplication that led to the formation of the vasopressin/oxytocin two-gene family occurred early during vertebrate evolution. However, the existence of both vasopressin- and oxytocin-related peptides in invertebrates suggests that this duplication may have occurred much earlier, although there is no evidence for the co-occurrence of vasopressin- and oxytocin-related peptides in the same invertebrate species. We report here that in Lymnaea only the vasopressin-related peptide Lys-conopressin, but not an oxytocin-related peptide, is present. Moreover, it is very likely that an oxytocin-like cDNA or gene is absent. The conopressin gene is expressed in neurons that control male sexual behavior, and its gene products are present in the penis nerve and the vas deferens. Conopressin induces muscular contractions of the vas deferens and inhibits central neurons that control female reproductive behavior. Thus, although structurally related to vasopressin, conopressin has functional and behavioral characteristics typical for oxytocin. Physiological and receptor binding data suggest that conopressin and [Ile8]-conopressin, a synthetic oxytocin-like analog of conopressin, are functionally equivalent in Lymnaea, and that the chemical nature of the amino acid residue at position 8 does not result in a functional difference. Therefore, we suggest that invertebrates contain only a single member of the vasopressin/oxytocin gene family and that the amino acid change that distinguishes vasopressin from oxytocin is functionally neutral in invertebrates.
Opioid peptides, Met5- and Leu5-enkephalin, are known endogenous ligands for the delta-opioid receptor (DOR) associated with opioid analgesia at the spinal level. To determine the cellular sites for DOR-mediated actions, we examined the ultrastructural localization of DOR and Met5-enkephalin (ME) in the spinal cord by combining immunoperoxidase and immunogold-silver labeling for antibodies against DOR and ME, respectively. Antibodies for DOR localization were raised in guinea pig against peptide 34-47 (p34), an amino acid sequence within the extracellular N-terminus of the DOR recently cloned from mouse neuroblastoma glioma (NG-108) cells. Selective immunoperoxidase labeling for DOR was detected by light microscopy in NG-108 cells and in the lamina I and II of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord (C2-C4). Electron microscopy of these spinal laminae revealed that the majority of the punctate varicosities seen by light microscopy were axon terminals. delta-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity (DOR-LI) in axon terminals was most prominently associated with large dense core vesicles, and sometimes seen along the membranes of small clear vesicles and segments of the plasmalemma. A semiquantitative analysis of dually labeled sections revealed that of the terminals showing DOR-LI, 23/102 (23%) also contained Met5-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity (ME-LI). Conversely, 23/35 (66%) of the terminals showing ME-LI also showed DOR-LI. In addition to the presynaptic localization, selective postsynaptic densities within dendrites were also occasionally (9%) immunolabeled for the opioid receptor. These results provide the first ultrastructural evidence that DOR may serve autoreceptor functions on ME terminals as well as presynaptic modulation of other transmitters in the dorsal horn of the rat spinal cord. Additionally, the vesicular localization of DOR-LI in axon terminals suggests the involvement of these organelles in the transport of the receptors to the plasma membrane.
Locations of pontomesencephalic cholinergic projection neurons from the laterodorsal tegmental (LDTg) and pedunculopontine tegmental (PPTg) nuclei to midbrain dopaminergic nuclei were mapped. Stereotaxic microinjections of Fluoro-Gold- or rhodamine-labeled microspheres were made either to substantia nigra (SN) or ventral tegmental area (VTA) in rat. Choline acetyltransferase was visualized immunohistochemically. Labeled cells were digitally mapped at multiple levels of the nuclei using an interactive computer/microscope system. SN-projecting neurons were distributed predominantly ipsilaterally in distinct regions of the PPTg: either at its rostral pole or caudally in an area ventromedial to the superior cerebellar peduncle. Few SN-projecting neurons were found in LDTg. VTA-projecting neurons were distributed bilaterally throughout the cholinergic group, primarily in the densest regions of the LDTg and caudal PPTg. Neurons were not strictly segregated into these patterns. Scattered cells belonging to either projection could be found throughout the cholinergic group on either side. Hierarchical log-linear analysis showed these differences in topographic distribution to be statistically significant. Subtraction of cell density images demonstrated well delineated regions of the cholinergic group where the projections were predominately either to SN or VTA. These data indicate a high degree of internal organization within the pontomesencephalic cholinergic group based on the location of efferent projections to SN or VTA. These findings support the concept that this cholinergic group is functionally organized in a manner which selectively innervates motor (SN) and limbic (VTA) dopaminergic nuclei.
A new technique was developed to fill columnar regions of cortex with retrograde neuroanatomical tracer. This technique involved (1) standard iontophoresis to eject tracer from a micropipette in concert with (2) displacement of this micropipette radially through the cortex using a computer controlled microdrive. The displacement of the micropipette left an evenly dense deposit of tracer throughout the cortical thickness forming a column of neuroanatomical tracer. The diameter of the columnar injection site was reliably dependent on the iontophoretic current strength, the micropipette displacement parameters, and the nature of the tracer used. This simple technique provided very reproducible results. Several issues related to the interconnections of functionally identified columns of sensory and motor cortex could be addressed with this injection technique.
We have attempted to use intraocular injections of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) to label ocular dominance patches in developing layer 4 of cat visual cortex. The cortices of animals killed at 49 days or later showed normal ocular dominance patches similar to those seen in [3H]proline material. Animals killed at 42 days showed some patches, but also showed unsegregated regions. Animals killed younger were difficult to stain and did not have patches. We also examined the ability of the WGA-HRP technique to demonstrate the effects of monocular deprivation (MD). MD for the first 3 months of life produced expansion of the afferents from the nondeprived eye and retraction of the patches from the deprived eye. One week of MD at about 5 weeks of age produced an expansion of the patches innervated by the nondeprived eye, but did not obviously affect the patches innervated by the deprived eye. We conclude that WGA-HRP is useful for examining the effects of long-term MD on ocular dominance patches but not for following the development of segregation. Its advantages over the [3H]proline technique are that it does not require a delay of many weeks before the sections can be examined and is much less expensive.
Methyllycaconitine (MLA) is the most potent and selective antagonist of the alpha-bungarotoxin sensitive neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). In the present study, an accurate and reproducible technique for the extraction and analysis of MLA from rat plasma and brain is described. This study further sought to determine whether pharmacologically relevant concentrations of MLA could be achieved in brain following peripheral administration. The detection limits for MLA were 0.5 ng/ml for plasma samples and 1.0 ng/g for brain samples. The pharmacokinetic properties of MLA in rat are characterized by a short elimination half-life (19 min) following intravenous (i.v.) administration and poor bioavailability following oral (p.o.) administration. Remarkably, the elimination half-life is significantly longer following p.o. administration (408 min). To assess the extent to which MLA can penetrate into brain, brain and plasma levels of MLA were determined at different time points following intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of a dose of MLA that produced no observable side effects. Maximal plasma and brain levels were 694 +/- 106 ng/ml and 32 +/- 3 ng/g, respectively. These concentrations are within a range previously reported to selectively block alpha 7 nAChR mediated responses in vitro. Peripherally administered MLA may therefore be a useful tool to further probe the central nervous system functions of the alpha 7 nAChR subunit in vivo.
The distribution of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) was examined in the posterior segment of the monkey, human, and feline eye using antisera to TGF-beta 1, TGF-beta 2, or TGF-beta 3. A number of different antibodies, tissue processing methods, immunolocalization techniques, and microscopic imaging systems were used in an attempt to gain a more comprehensive picture of TGF-beta isoform distribution in the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE). The results are generally consistent in identifying one or more of the three TGF-beta isoforms in the cytoplasm of a small, overlapping subset of cells. RPE cells, photoreceptors, Mueller cells, ganglion cells, hyalocytes, and cells associated with choroidal and retinal vessels are all represented in this immunoreactive population. No evidence of extracellular labeling was noted. The intracellular distribution of the three isoforms is distinctly different in photoreceptors. Anti-TGF-beta 1 precursor and anti-TGF-beta 2 immunoreactivity is confined primarily to rod outer segments, whereas anti-TGF-beta 3 immunoreactivities are restricted to mitochondria within inner segments. In the RPE, clusters of anti-TGF-beta 2 positive cytoplasmic granules are located near the cells' lateral borders, whereas anti-TGF-beta 3 labeling is concentrated apically. These results provide baseline information from which new hypotheses regarding the function(s) of TGF-beta isoforms in the retina can be formulated.
Our aim was to identify proteins that mediate the uptake and degradation of synaptically released glutamate, focusing on the rat retina with its well-defined glutamatergic pathways. Immunoreactivity against the L-glutamate/L-aspartate transporter (GLAST) is present in Mller cells. Ultrastructurally, even the finest glial processes, particularly those ensheathing identified structures of glutamatergic transmission (rod spherules), are immunoreactive for GLAST. Further light and electron microscopic observations revealed that also retinal astrocytes and pigment epithelial cells are immunoreactive for GLAST. No neuronal or microglial staining was observed. This is in line with uptake of exogenous [3H]glutamate previously localized specifically in Mller cells and pigment epithelium (Ehinger and Falck: Brain Res 33:157-172, 1971). Since endogenous glutamate can only be demonstrated in Mller cells if glutamine synthetase (GS) is inhibited (Pow and Robinson: Neuroscience 60:355-366, 1994), the immunocytochemical localization of GS was determined. GS immunoreactivity was found in all but only those cell types immunoreactive for GLAST. The light and electron microscopic patterns of immunoreactivity were very similar, particularly in the outer plexiform layer. The three cell types containing both GS and GLAST (Mller cells, astrocytes, and retinal pigment epithelium) are related developmentally. In the light of the two references quoted the present data indicate that the proteins mediating retinal uptake and degradation of synaptically released glutamate may be GLAST and GS, respectively, and that they may operate in concert to terminate the neurotransmitter action of glutamate.
Iloperidone (1-[4-[3-[4-(6-fluoro-1,2-benzisoxazol-3-yl)-1- piperidinyl]propoxy]-3-methoxyphenyl]ethanone) demonstrated a potent antipsychotic profile in several in vitro and in vivo animal models. Iloperidone displaced ligand binding at D2 dopamine receptors (IC50 = 0.11 microM) and displayed a high affinity for serotonin (5-HT2) receptors (IC50 = 0.011 microM) and alpha-1 receptors (IC50 = 0.00037 microM). In vivo, iloperidone antagonized apomorphine-induced climbing behavior in mice at low doses with good oral bioavailability, prevented 5-HT-induced head twitch in rats at low doses, and inhibited self-stimulation behavior in rats, pole climb avoidance in rats and continuous Sidman avoidance responding in monkeys. The latter assay also demonstrated a good duration of action. Iloperidone was substantially less active in models of extrapyramidal side effect (EPS) liability, such as preventing apomorphine-induced stereotypy and causing catalepsy in rats. In single dopamine neuron sampling studies, iloperidone demonstrated clozapine-like effects on the number of active midbrain dopamine neurons. Based on the significant increase in the open arm time seen after iloperidone treatment in the elevated plus maze assay and increased interaction score in social interaction, iloperidone may also have favorable effects in the clinic on anxiety and, possibly, negative symptoms. Clinical trials are under way of the use of iloperidone for the treatment of schizophrenia.
Recently, the fentanyl-related compound OHM3295 has been shown to induce a naltrexone-sensitive, dose-related analgesia in CD1 mice. However, unlike morphine or fentanyl, which are potent immunosuppressive drugs, OHM3295 has been found to augment splenic natural killer (NK) activity in a dose-related and naltrexone-reversible manner. The present study investigated the type (delta, kappa or mu) of opioid receptor involved in analgesia and immunomodulation after acute administration of OHM3295. CD1 mice pretreated with beta-funaltrexamine (beta-FNA, 40.0 mg/kg) showed an insignificant induction of analgesia (8.4 +/- 3.7%) after 3.2 mg/kg OHM3295, whereas mice pretreated with vehicle, norbinaltorphimine (10.0 mg/kg) or naltrindole (20.0 mg/kg) exhibited 43.6 +/- 12.6% of maximal analgesia, as determined by the tail-flick latency test. Consistent with previous results, acute administration of OHM3295 (3.2 mg/kg) augmented splenic NK activity (20.7 +/- 3.4 lytic units [LU]) relative to vehicle-treated mice (8.2 +/- 0.7 LU). Pretreatment with beta-FNA (40.0 mg/kg) completely blocked (9.0 +/- 1.9 LU) OHM3295-mediated augmentation of NK activity, whereas pretreatment with norbinaltorphimine (10.0 mg/kg) partially blocked (15.8 +/- 2.2 LU) the drug-induced effect. However, pretreatment with naltrindole (20.0 mg/kg) did not antagonize OHM3295-induced increases in splenic NK activity but rather further enhanced (32.3 +/- 4.2 LU) the effect. NK-enriched effector cells from OHM3295-treated mice displayed an increase in conjugation with YAC-1 target cells, an increase in the percent killing of target cells and a significant increase in the number of active killer cells compared with NK-enriched effector cells from vehicle-treated mice.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The present study was designed to evaluate the hypothesis that enhanced corticosterone levels may facilitate the enduring neuroadaptive effects in the brain caused by drugs of abuse. Treatment of primary neuronal cultures of the rat striatal complex (striatum/nucleus accumbens, consisting for more than 90% of gamma-aminobutyric acid neurons) with 10 microM morphine for 2 hr to 3 days, enhanced the maximal stimulatory effect of the dopamine D-1 receptor agonist SKF38393 on adenylyl cyclase activity. This adaptive increase in D-1 receptor efficacy upon long-term mu-opioid receptor activation was about doubled after simultaneous or previous exposure of the neurons to the glucocorticoid receptor agonist dexamethasone (EC50 about 2 nM). A similar facilitation of the effect of morphine was observed upon exposure of the neurons to relatively high (nanomolar) concentrations of corticosterone, whereas the mineralocorticoid receptor agonist aldosterone appeared to be ineffective in this respect, indicating the involvement of glucocorticoid receptors. Interestingly, whereas morphine exposure also enhanced isoprenaline-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity, this increase of beta adrenoceptor efficacy was not at all affected by dexamethasone. In both morphine-treated and untreated neurons, low concentrations (&lt; .3 nM) of corticosterone or aldosterone, but not dexamethasone, caused a slight (about 20%) reduction of dopamine D-1 receptor-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity, indicating the involvement of mineralocorticoid receptors. These data show that the morphine-induced adaptive increase of postsynaptic dopamine D-1 receptor efficacy (also observed in striatal slices of rats weeks after repeated treatment with morphine or cocaine) is strongly enhanced after previous or simultaneous glucocorticoid receptor activation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The pineal gland of vertebrates produces the time-keeping hormone melatonin in a rhythmic manner. Regulation of melatonin production is a multifactorial process. In the chicken, light, perceived through the skull, and norepinephrine, acting through alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, synergistically inhibit day time melatonin production. In addition, adenosine exerts autocrine/paracrine modulatory effects on melatonin secretion. In an attempt to elucidate how these effects of adenosine are mediated, chicken pineal cells were cultured, in the dark during day time, in the presence of different analogs of adenosine. When the adenosine transmembranous carrier was inhibited, chloroadenosine stimulated cyclic AMP (cAMP) accumulation in a time- and dose-dependent manner. The effects were antagonized by 8-phenyltheophylline, an antagonist at the A1/A2 adenosine receptors. A dose-dependent stimulation of cAMP accumulation was also obtained with other adenosine agonists, with the following order of potency: N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine &gt; cyclopentyladenosine &gt; R-phenyl-isopropylade-nosine. The stimulatory effect of the latter compound was still observed when basal cAMP levels were increased in the presence of forskolin. Under our experimental conditions no inhibition of cAMP content was observed. Our results are consistent with the idea that stimulation of melatonin secretion by adenosine analogs is mediated through A2 receptors.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) is a peptide neurotransmitter that was originally isolated from the gastrointestinal system, but which is extensively and abundantly distributed within the central nervous system (CNS). Stimulated by the fairly recent recognition of receptor subtypes (A and B), and the development of receptor-specific antagonists, CCK research has been advancing rapidly; and its potential importance to psychiatric neuroscience has been increasingly recognized. CCK participates in the mediation of satiety; it interacts with dopamine and may modulate psychosis; it interacts with opiate systems and may be an &quot;anti-analgesic&quot;: and it appears to play a role in the mediation of anxiety. Highly specific, CCK-B receptor antagonists have reached clinical trials and have potential clinical utility as anxiolytics, antipsychotics, anti-anorexics, or analgesics. There are grounds for excitement, but many obstacles remain to be overcome and clinical potential may not be fulfilled. However, we must not allow clinical disappointments to slow the accelerating pace of scientific progress in CCK research. Regardless of clinical payoffs, the CCK receptor is clearly of great importance to human CNS functioning and deserves ongoing scientific attention.
Terazosin and its enantiomers, antagonists of alpha 1-adrenoceptors, were studied in radioligand binding and functional assays to determine relative potencies at subtypes of alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors in vitro. The racemic compound and its enantiomers showed high and apparently equal affinity for subtypes of alpha 1-adrenoceptors with Kl values in the low nanomolar range, and showed potent antagonism of alpha 1-adrenoceptors in isolated tissues, with the enantiomers approximately equipotent to the racemate at each alpha 1-adrenoceptor subtype. At alpha 2b sites, R(+) terazosin bound less potently than either the S(-) enantiomer or racemate. R(+) terazosin was also less potent than the S(-) enantiomer or the racemate at rat atrial alpha 2B receptors. These agents were not significantly different in their potencies at alpha 2a or alpha 2A sites. Since the high affinity for alpha 2B sites of quinazoline-type alpha-adrenoceptor antagonists has been used to differentiate alpha 2-adrenoceptor subtypes, the low affinity of R(+) terazosin for these sites was unexpected. Because terazosin or its enantiomers are approximately equipotent at alpha 1-adrenoceptor subtypes, the lower potency of R(+) terazosin at alpha 2B receptors indicates a somewhat greater selectivity for alpha 1-compared to alpha 2B adrenoceptor subtypes. The possible pharmacological significance of this observation is discussed.

CSK is a predominantly cytosolic protein-tyrosine kinase (PTK) that negatively regulates Src family PTKs by phosphorylation of a conserved tyrosine near their C termini. Little is known about how CSK itself is regulated. On the basis of immunofluorescence studies, a model has been proposed that when c-Src is activated, it is redistributed to podosomes, in which substrates become phosphorylated, creating binding sites for CSK. CSK is recruited to these sites of c-Src activation via its SH2 and SH3 domains and is then in a position to downregulate c-Src activity (B. W. Howell and J. A. Cooper, Mol. Cell. Biol. 14:5402-5411, 1994). To identify phosphotyrosine (P.Tyr)-containing proteins that may mediate translocation of CSK due to c-Src activation, we have examined the whole spectrum of P.Tyr-containing proteins that associate with CSK in v-Src NIH 3T3 cells by anti-P.Tyr immunoblotting. Nine P.Tyr-containing proteins coimmunoprecipitated with CSK from v-Src NIH 3T3 cells. One of these, an approximately 62-kDa protein, also associated with CSK in NIH 3T3 cells treated with vanadate prior to lysis and in NIH 3T3 cells expressing an activated c-Src mutant. This 62-kDa protein was shown to be identical to the GTPase-activating protein (GAP)-associated p62 (GAP-A.p62) protein. The interaction between CSK and GAP-A.p62 could be reconstituted in vitro with glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins containing full-length CSK or the CSK SH2 domain. Furthermore, our data show that CSK interacts directly with GAP.A-p62 and that the complex between the two proteins is localized in subcellular membrane or cytoskeletal fractions. Our results suggest that GAP-A.p62 may function as a docking protein and may mediate translocation of proteins, including GAP and CSK, to membrane or cytoskeletal regions upon c-Src activation.
Subthalamic nucleus (STN) lesions or high-frequency stimulations could improve parkinsonian symptoms in monkeys treated by MPTP. We have applied the procedure of chronic stimulation to the STN in severely disabled parkinsonian patients. This article presents the case of the first patient operated on bilaterally. Bilateral STN stimulation has greatly improved akinesia and rigidity. The benefit was maintained &lt; or = 15 months after surgery. Unilateral stimulation induced motor effects mainly in contralateral limbs. Further studies are needed to evaluate the value of this procedure in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.


Differential development of monoamine oxidase (MAO) isoenzymes in rat whole brain is described in postnatally developing Sprague-Dawley rats. Total MAO and isoenzyme activity was measured using nonspecific and specific substrates. Total MAO activity measured using tyramine, increased postnatally up to 24 weeks of age and attained a plateau afterward. The increase in total MAO activity was significant at all age groups (18 days to 36 months) investigated as compared to new born rats. MAO-A and MAO-B activities were measured using octopamine and benzylamine respectively. We also observed a marginal increase of MAO-A activity and a significant increase of MAO-B activity upon development. Furthermore, at 12 weeks of age, MAO-B activity increased by 10-fold as compared to new born and was consistent up to 36 months of age. The qualitative localization of the enzyme activity on non SDS-PAGE by nitroblue tetrazolium staining confirmed the increase of MAO-B during the development. It is suggested that the maturational increase of total MAO activity in brain is predominantly due to the increase of MAO-B isoenzyme.
The ability of chlormethiazole to protect against ischaemic cell damage in a rat model of permanent focal ischaemia has been examined. Chlormethiazole (1 mmol/kg) was administered intraperitoneally either 1 or 3 h after occlusion of the middle cerebral artery with an intraluminal filament. Twenty four hours after the start of occlusion there was histological evidence for ischaemic damage in both cortex and striatum. The volume of ischaemic damage in control (saline injected) animals was 310 +/- 25 mm3 (mean +/- SEM; n = 6). Chlormethiazole administered 1 h after occlusion reduced this damage by 58% (128 +/- 40 mm3; n = 6; P &lt; 0.01), protection being observed in both brain regions. The drug was ineffective when given 3 h after occlusion (304 +/- 25 mm3; n = 5). Chlormethiazole had no effect on body temperature, mean arterial blood pressure, blood pH, pO2 or pCO2, but did induce mild bradycardia. Chlormethiazole therefore appears to be an effective neuroprotective agent in this model of permanent ischaemia, complementing previous data on the efficacy of this drug in other focal and global models of cerebral ischaemia.
Recent studies have shown that cerebral beta amyloid (A beta) protein deposition is a necessary, but not sufficient, factor to develop the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the present immunohistochemical study, we have investigated in AD the distribution of A beta associated proteins in the cerebral neocortex, in the cerebellar cortex where A beta plaques are mainly of the diffuse type, and also in the cerebral neocortex of non-demented patients with A beta plaques. Results show that immunolabeling for C1q, C4c, C3d, alpha 1-ACT and Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) occurs in the great majority of A beta plaques in all groups. ApoJ is present in A beta plaques of the cerebral neocortex in AD and in non-demented elderly, but is almost absent from those of the AD cerebellar cortex. C4Bp and P-component, in contrast to AD, rarely occurs in A beta plaques of the cerebral neocortex in the non-demented elderly. Heparan sulphate proteoglycan (HSPG) core protein and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) are absent in the diffuse A beta plaques in the AD cerebellum. These differences in distribution and expression of A beta associated proteins may be determined by brain region specific factors (cerebral cortex versus cerebellar cortex) and clinical state (demented versus non-demented cases). We suggest that, besides A beta peptide, certain A beta associated proteins are required for both amyloid plaque formation and for the induction of neurofibrillary changes.
During the nineteenth century, two parallel developments, a surge in neuroscience discovery and the advent of medical specialization, resulted in new educational demands for advanced, postgraduate neurologic training in the United States. Archival data, including trustees' reports, school charters, and instructional plans from medical institutions in New York, Boston, Philadelphia, and Chicago, document three comparative models for early postgraduate neurologic training. First, senior physicians with an interest in neurologic disease incorporated postgraduates directly into their practice and as laboratory assistants; second, medical universities, as well as distinct postgraduate schools, organized advanced general medical curricula with optional opportunities for focused neurologic training; and third, separate neurologic hospitals provided physicians with full-time clinical instruction specifically in neurology. As a result, although neurology residencies were not established until the 1900s, postgraduate neurologic training was firmly institutionalized in nineteenth-century America. These programs provided doctors in the United States with advanced neurologic educational opportunities and expertise and fostered the development of a distinct American neurologic school.
The reflex actions of medial gastrocnemius (MG) group I afferents on soleus motoneurons were examined in 20 normal subjects and 13 patients with well-defined chronic spinal cord lesions. In normal subjects, stimulation of the MG nerve with near-nerve electrodes at or below the threshold of the alpha motoneuron axons resulted in inhibition of the soleus H reflex at a condition-test interval of 6 msec. The central delay was estimated to be 2.5 msec. This inhibition was attributed to Ib afferents. We found that this inhibition was present in patients with spinal cord lesions. This contrasts with previous reports that stimulation of MG afferents facilitates the soleus H reflex in hemiplegic limbs, and it may represent a physiologic difference between cerebral and spinal spasticity.
We report a 4-yr and 5-month-old boy with severe clinical features of an early-onset Duchenne muscular dystrophy, who had a very short (110 kDa) dystrophin at the sarcolemma. The patient had a large deletion (exons 2-44) of the dystrophin gene which was predicted to cause a reading frame shift. Sequence analysis of dystrophin mRNA in muscle revealed an alternatively spliced gene product from exons 1 to 51 that caused restoration of the reading frame, in addition to an mRNA corresponding to the DNA deletion. A consistent result was obtained by immunocytochemical analysis of muscle; i.e. positive staining for dystrophin at the sarcolemma using antibodies against the C-terminus, cysteine-rich region and last three of 24 repeat units of the central rod-domain, but not for the remaining antibodies for dystrophin that recognize the N-terminal and proximal rod-domains. Immunostaining for dystrophin-associated glycoproteins (DAGs: 43 and 50 K) and merosin were preserved. Utrophin staining was positive but fainter than other DMD muscles. These results suggest that an extremely short dystrophin lacking the entire actin-binding site in the N-terminus cannot function properly even if the protein possesses the putative DAG-binding cysteine-rich and the C-terminal domains, and still has an ability to associate with sarcolemmal membrane.
The isometric Maximum Voluntary Contraction (MVC) of the right quadriceps femoris muscle was measured in 82 females and 58 males using a chair dynamometer and their mid-thigh quadriceps thickness was measured using real-time B-mode ultrasound. Statistically significant relationships (ranging from P &lt; 0.001 to P &lt; 0.0001) were found between quadriceps MVC, quadriceps thickness and body weight for both males and females. A significant inter-sex difference was present in the MVC-weight and MVC-thickness relationships, with males tending to have a higher MVC for a given body weight (P &lt; 0.0001) and for a given muscle thickness (P &lt; 0.0001). The inter-sex difference in the force-size relationship may relate to the previously demonstrated larger size of type 2b fibres and to the greater force generating capacity of these fibres compared with type 1 fibres.
This paper discusses possible strategies that might prevent or alleviate muscle weakness of SMA patients and hence improve their condition. The strategies discussed are as follows. (1) Prevention of motoneurone death. To achieve this two main approaches have been applied. Firstly, trophic factors have been used to prevent motoneurone death after nerve injury and clinically in diseases such as motoneurone disease. The results of these attempts will be described. Secondly, the possibility that injured motoneurones die as a result of the excitotoxic effects of the excitatory transmitter glutamate will be explored. Evidence will be presented which indicates that blocking glutamate receptors can rescue injured motoneurones from death. (2) Replacement of lost motoneurones by embryonic grafts. Motoneurones from grafts of embryonic spinal cord have been shown to survive in the adult spinal cord and are able to reinnervate skeletal muscles. The potential and practical problems of this approach will be discussed. (3) Expansion or motor unit territory of surviving motoneurones. Such an expansion of the territory occupied by individual motor units can be achieved by encouraging sprouting and ensuring that the newly formed connections between the motoneurone and muscle fibres are maintained, so that individual motor units are capable of developing more force. Strategies to achieve such an expansion of motor unit territory will be described. Finally, combinations of some of these approaches are considered.
'Consciousness' is a superordinate term for a heterogeneous array of mental state types. The types share the property of 'being experienced' or 'being experiences'--'of there being something that it is like for the subject to be in one of these states.' I propose that we can only build a theory of consciousness by deploying 'the natural method' of coordinating all relevant informational resources at once, especially phenomenology, cognitive science, neuroscience and evolutionary biology. I'll provide two examples of the natural method in action in mental domains where an adaptationist evolutionary account seems plausible: (i) visual awareness and (ii) conscious event memory. Then I will discuss a case, (iii), dreaming, where I think no adaptationist evolutionary account exists. Beyond whatever interest the particular cases have, the examination will show why I think that a theory of mind, and the role conscious mentation plays in it, will need to be built domain-by-domain with no a priori expectation that there will be a unified account of the causal role or evolutionary history of different domains and competences.
This paper summarizes the main steps in a scientific study of consciousness. From a survey of the recent literature, it appears that: (1) there is a clear tendency to consider consciousness as a scientific object; (2) consistent subjective and objective descriptions of consciousness are possible; an intentional-modeling structure accounts for its main features; (3) from the evolutionary biology standpoint, conscious cognitive activities, as based on models of the self, the world and the alter-ego, have a functional value; (4) the material basis of consciousness can be clarified without recourse to new properties of the matter or to quantum physics. Current neurobiology, based on classical macrophysics, appears able to handle the problem. In this scope, the neurobiology of sleep-wakefulness and attention, and neuropsychology, have already achieved substantial advances.
Immunohistochemical staining for the glutamate receptor subtypes N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), kainate, and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) results in a significant number of labeled unmyelinated axons in the glabrous skin of the rat hindpaw. Injection of glutamate into the rat hindpaw results in behavioral changes interpreted as mechanical allodynia and mechanical hyperalgesia. The anatomical findings provide a reasonable explanation for the action of the exogenous peripheral glutamate, namely that activation of these receptors leads to increased primary afferent activity in unmyelinated axons and thus to pain behaviors. AMPA receptors are frequently associated with small clear vesicles in the axoplasm of the unmyelinated axons, many of which have been previously shown to contain high concentrations of glutamate. This finding indicates that these might be autoreceptors and so glutamate itself might regulate certain types of peripheral impulse traffic. The presence of peripheral glutamate receptors associated with unmyelinated axons suggests the possibility that glutamate antagonists applied peripherally might prevent or attenuate some pain-related behaviors.
Electrical stimulation of the distal stump of cut peripheral nerves is a commonly accepted way to evoke neurogenic inflammation. Nevertheless, the modulatory effect of biogenic amines and vasoactive peptides released from efferent fibres can be excluded only if the dorsal roots are stimulated. The present study was focussed to investigate plasma extravasation in the appropriate skin and mucosal areas as well as in the genito-urinary organs in response to antidromic stimulation of the lumbar and sacral dorsal roots of the rat. Plasma extravasation was detected by quantitative measurement of the accumulated Evans Blue tracer in tissue pieces. Two unilateral posterior roots were stimulated simultaneously (20 V, 0.5 ms, 5 Hz, 5 min) in each anaesthetized rat. Intensive blueing response occurred in the following tissues: plantar glabrous skin, L4-L5 (L6); dorsum of the hindpaw and ankle joint, L2-L4; ventral surface of the thigh, L2-L4 (L1); abdominal skin, L1-L4; caudal nipples, L1-L2; root of the tail, S1 orifice of the vagina, S1 (L6); vagina, L2-L3, L5-S1; cervix and corpus uteri, L2-L3, L5-S1; lower two-thirds of the uterine horns, L1-L3; urinary bladder, L1-L3, L6-S1; rectum, L5-S1; scrotum (dorsal surface and lower pole), L6-S1; scrotum (ventral surface), L3-L5. No significant dye accumulation was observed in the muscles, testicles, vas deferens and prostate. Plasma extravasation caused by antidromic activation of the dorsal roots was absent or highly reduced after systemic capsaicin pretreatment of the rats. Neurogenic inflammation evoked by antidromic stimulation of the dorsal roots makes this method suitable for mapping the organs where capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerve endings exert their &quot;efferent functions&quot;. This first functional description of segmental innervation of capsaicin-sensitive afferent fibres is in agreement with retrograde tracing studies and immunohistochemical localization of substance P in the dorsal root ganglia and peripheral tissues.
We have discovered cytochrome P450 and associated monooxygenase activities in microsomes prepared from spinal cord tissues from rats and a human. Cytochrome P450 levels and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate cytochrome c reductase activities in microsomes from rat spinal cord were similar to those observed from the whole brain. However, certain monooxygenase activities were significantly lower in the rat spinal cord microsomes as compared to the corresponding activities observed in the whole brain. Cytochrome P450-mediated monooxygenase activities were also detectable in microsomes prepared from human spinal cord. Immunoblot analyses of rat and human spinal cord microsomes using antisera to various forms of hepatic cytochrome P450 namely (2B1 + 2B2), 1A1, 1A2 and 2E1 revealed the presence of immunologically similar forms. The spinal cord microsomes also cross-reacted with the antiserum to the phenobarbital-inducible form of rat brain cytochrome P450. Immunocytochemical stain was predominant in the gray horns of the rat spinal cord. At the cervical level, lamina 1 and 2 representing the substantia gelatinosa were intensely stained. In the ventral horns, lamina 7, 8 and 9 containing the large motor neurons were strongly labelled, while small neurons revealed variable staining. In the white matter, the glial cells were stained but the axons remained non-reactive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Acromelic acid A, which contains the kainic acid structure in its molecule, is known to cause selective damage of interneurons in the rat lower spinal cord. In the present study, the potent neurotoxicity of acromelic acid A was demonstrated in cultured rat spinal neurons in terms of the activity of lactate dehydrogenase that was released from degenerated neurons into the culture medium. Acromelic acid A increased the lactate dehydrogenase activity in time- and concentration-dependent manners, and its EC50 was about 2.5 microM, which was much lower than that of kainic acid (70 microM) and (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (EC50; 11 microM). The maximum level of lactate dehydrogenase released by acromelic acid A was quite similar to that by kainic acid, but was about twice the level produced by (RS)-alpha-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid. Exposure to acromelic acid A caused release of L-glutamate from the cells into the medium; however, the concentration of L-glutamate released was far below the level for inducing the neurotoxic effects. The neurotoxicity of 10 microM acromelic acid A was almost completely inhibited by 30 microM 6-nitro-7-sulphamoylbenzo(F)quinoxaline-2,3-dione and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, potent antagonists for non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, but was partly (35%) reduced by 30 microM dizocilpine maleate. In cultured hippocampal neurons, the toxicity of acromelic acid A was significantly less effective (EC50: 18 microM) than that in spinal neurons, whereas the toxicity of kainic acid was almost the same in both neurons. These results suggest that acromelic acid A directly activates non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors on the cultured spinal neurons to induce neuronal death. A new type of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors which is specific to acromelic acid A is suggested to be present at least in spinal neurons.
The characteristics of release of amino acids evoked by substance P from the neonatal rat spinal cord were examined. A hemisected spinal cord was continuously perfused and the release of amino acids into the perfusate was measured using high-performance liquid chromatography with a precolumn derivatization technique. Substance P (10 microM) evoked a significant increase in the release of aspartate, glutamate, GABA, glycine and taurine. The substance P-evoked release of these five amino acids was not reduced by Ca(2+)-free medium, but was blocked by [D-Pro4,D-Trp] substance P4-11 (10 microM). Perfusion of the spinal cord with low-Na+ medium (22 mM) induced a marked increase in the high-K+ (90mM)-evoked release of GABA, glutamate and glycine. In contrast, the substance P-evoked release of the five amino acids was significantly decreased by the low-Na+ medium. Similarly, perfusion of the spinal cord with low-Cl- medium (8 mM) increased the high-K(+)-evoked release of GABA and glycine, but decreased the substance P-evoked release of GABA, glycine and taurine. The substance P-evoked release of the five amino acids was dose-dependently blocked by d-tubocurarine (3-10 microM), whereas it was not blocked by tetrodotoxin (0.2 microM) or amiloride (30 microM). Compound 48/80 (10 micrograms/ml), a histamine-releasing agent on mast cells, evoked release of the amino acids from the spinal cord with characteristics similar to those of substance P-evoked amino acid release.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Using in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry and receptor binding methodology, the galanin messenger RNA levels, galanin binding and galanin-like immunoreactivity were examined in rats injected with carrageenan into the left hindpaw. Three days after injection, a distinct increase (63%) in galanin messenger RNA-positive neurons was observed in the medial laminae I and II of the ipsilateral dorsal horn (lumbar 4 and 5) as compared to the contralateral side. However, no alteration was found in galanin binding and galanin-like immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn. In dorsal root ganglia (lumbar 5), inflammation induced a significant decrease in galanin messenger RNA (39%) and galanin peptide (47%) on the ipsilateral side. Galanin binding was not detected in dorsal root ganglia, neither on the inflammatory nor on the control side. Increased levels of galanin-like immunoreactivity and galanin messenger RNA were seen in cells in the inflamed dermis and epidermis, especially in stratum granulosum. Most of the galanin-immunoreactive cells contained ED1-like immunoreactivity, a marker for macrophages. A strong galanin binding was seen in the inflamed dermis. Such binding sites may be targets for galanin released from local cells in inflamed dermis. Taken together, our results suggest that both neuronal and non-neuronal galanin or a galanin-like peptide is involved in the response to inflammation.
In vivo microdialysis was used to determine if morphine produces increases in extracellular serotonin in specific brain sites. With citalopram included in the dialysis solution to block reuptake, serotonin was measured in 11 brain sites of unanesthetized rats. After systemic morphine (10 mg/kg, s.c.), increases in extracellular serotonin were observed in the nucleus accumbens, amygdala, frontal cortex, striatum, thalamus, hypothalamus and ventral hippocampus. These seven areas are innervated either by dorsal raphe nucleus projections alone, or by projections from both dorsal and median raphe nucleus. In contrast, serotonin was not significantly increased in the medial septal nucleus and dorsal hippocampus. These two areas are selectively innervated by projections from the median raphe nucleus. After systemic morphine, serotonin was increased in the dorsal raphe nucleus, but not in the medial raphe nucleus. Local infusion of morphine through a microdialysis probe in the dorsal raphe nucleus induced a dose-dependent increase of serotonin in the nucleus accumbens, but not in the medial septum. In contrast, infusion of morphine into the median raphe nucleus had little effect on serotonin in either the nucleus accumbens or septum. Infusion of morphine into either the dorsal or median raphe nucleus elicited increased behavioral activity and hyperthermia. These data provide evidence that morphine acts in the area of the dorsal raphe nucleus, but not the median raphe nucleus, to enhance serotonin release in specific forebrain sites, and that the increases in serotonin in the dorsal raphe nucleus projection sites are not an indirect effect of changes in behavioral state or body temperature.
At present there is no consensus concerning the internal organization of the human substantia nigra, despite its pivotal role in neurodegenerative conditions. We have quantitatively analysed the variability in the pattern of clusters of melanin-pigmented neurons in the human substantia nigra using serial section analysis and computer reconstructions. The substantia nigra pars compacta showed a bilaminar organization consisting of the pars medialis and pars lateralis, as well as dorsal and ventral tiers as described previously [D. A. McRitchie et al. (1995) J. comp. Neurol. (in press)]. Both the dorsal and ventral tiers could be further subdivided into three mediolateral cell columns based on position and cell density. The presence and arrangement of these cell clusters was most variable in transverse sections (the plane currently used for diagnostic neuropathology). Quantitative assessment of the topographical pattern of cell loss within single transverse sections of the human substantia nigra should therefore be treated with some caution. In contrast, the full rostrocaudal extent of the cell columns could be seen in horizontal sections. Thus, consistent samples of larger numbers of pigmented neurons per region were found in this section plane, although only two cell columns were found in most sections. Our results show that greater quantitative reliability can be achieved with horizontal sections of the substantia nigra.
In the present study, the effects of nicotine treatment on the changes induced by perinatal asphyxia in exploratory and D-amphetamine-induced behaviour, and in the number of brain tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive nerve cell bodies were investigated in four-week-old male rats. Asphyxia was induced in pups by placing the fetuses, still in their uterus horns removed by hysterectomy from full-term pregnant rats, in a 37 degrees C water bath for 15-16 min or 19-20 min. Surviving male pups were treated with nicotine via suckling from surrogate mothers implanted subcutaneously with Alzet minipumps containing nicotine (0.2 mumol/kg per h) for four weeks. The minipumps implanted in the mothers of sham-treated animals contained saline only. After treatment, exploratory behaviour and D-amphetamine-induced behaviour was analysed in a computerized &quot;activity&quot; box. After the behavioural experiments, the rats were taken for tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry, and the total number of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cell bodies were counted in the A9 and A10 regions of the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area, respectively. Nicotine serum levels were measured using gas chromatography in selected asphyctic and control pups at different periods after delivery. During the exploratory phase, in saline-nurtured rats, 15-16 min of asphyxia slightly increased (approximately 25%) locomotion, motility and rearing. In contrast, 19-20 min of asphyxia reduced the locomotion and rearing by approximately 50%, as compared to controls. An increase in amphetamine-induced behaviours was observed after 15-16 min, but not after 19-20 min of asphyxia, as compared to controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous studies have demonstrated that neurotensin is internalized and retrogradely transported in neurons of the substantia nigra following its intracerebral injection in the neostriatum. The aim of the present study was to compare the intracellular distribution of retrogradely transported material with that observed following internalization of the peptide at the somatodendritic level and to confirm that the internalization was confined to dopamine neurons. To document somatodendritic internalization, slices (350 microns) from the rat ventral midbrain were incubated in vitro with 20 mM fluoresceinylated neurotensin, a fluorescent derivative of neurotensin, and immunostained 5-60 min later for tyrosine hydroxylase. To document retrograde transport, rats were injected with the same compound into the neostriatum and the brains processed for tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry 4.5 and 8 h later. Confocal laser microscopic examination of superfused slices revealed that fluoresceinylated neurotensin was internalized at the level of the perikarya and processes of neurons in the substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area and interfascicular nucleus. At short time intervals, the label was detected in the form of small, intensely fluorescent particles distributed within the cytoplasm of both perikarya and dendrites. At longer time intervals, these fluorescent particles were larger, less numerous and confined to the perikarya where they eventually clustered against the nucleus. Following intrastriatal injection of fluoresceinylated neurotensin, retrogradely labeled cells were apparent throughout the substantia nigra, pars compacta, as well as in the lateral part of the ventral tegmental area. Here again, the label took the form of small fluorescent particles, comparable in size, shape and distribution to those detected following superfusion of midbrain slices. In both labeling conditions, fluoresceinylated neurotensin was almost exclusively confined to tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells. These results indicate that neurotensin is internalized throughout the terminal and dendritic arborization of mesostriatal dopamine cells and that the internalized peptide is transported centripetally from both locations to the soma of the cells. The clustering of fluorescent particles in the perinuclear region of the cells further suggests that the internalized process may play a role in the long term transcellular signalling.
Previous studies have established that selective damage to the early-developing components of the mesostriatal dopamine system produces profound changes in dopamine D1 receptor-mediated behaviors, while decreasing D1 receptor density. In order to better understand the effects of early intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesions, we studied the ontogenetic expression (postnatal days 7, 14, 35 and 90) of D1 and D2 receptors, and their corresponding messenger RNAs, in rats that had received intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine or vehicle lesions on postnatal day 1. Using receptor autoradiography, significant (P &lt; 0.05) decreases in [3H]SCH 23390 binding to D1 receptors in the rostral and caudal dorsomedial and ventromedial caudate of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned animals were evident by postnatal day 7, and remained depressed at all future time points. A significant decrease in D1 receptor concentration occurred in the dorsolateral caudate at later time points (postnatal days 35 and 90). [3H]Spiperone binding to D2 receptor sites was unchanged throughout the entire study. In situ hybridization for D1 and D2 messenger RNA expression showed contrasting results. 6-Hydroxydopamine induced significant decreases of D1 messenger RNA levels in the dorsolateral and dorsomedial caudate by postnatal day 7. By postnatal day 14, messenger RNA expression was significantly elevated in the dorsomedial and ventromedial caudate of the 6-hydroxydopamine group, and remained elevated thereafter. D1 messenger RNA levels became elevated in the lateral caudate at later time points (postnatal days 35 and 90). The opposing changes in D1 receptor concentrations and the messenger RNA encoding the protein did not occur as a consequence of increased transport of D1 receptors to striatonigral terminals. D2 messenger RNA levels in the dorsal caudate were significantly decreased on postnatal day 7, and became higher than controls at postnatal day 14, but were unchanged from controls at later time points. Together, the D1 receptor and D1 messenger RNA findings suggest that the normal relationship between levels of D1 receptor transcript and D1 receptor protein is permanently altered following the early loss of dopamine. In contrast, the results indicate that dopamine plays a minor role in the early postnatal development of the D2 receptor protein and transcript. These findings suggest that dopamine may be involved in the coordinated expression of some dopamine receptors and their corresponding messenger RNAs during development.
Intracellular microelectrode recordings were used to examine the effects of the potassium channel blockers: 4-aminopyridine, a selective blocker of fast potassium conductances gKf1 and gKf2,13 and tetraethylammonium, a blocker of gKf1, gKf2 and the slow conductance gKs,13 on the repetitive activity of large myelinated axons of frog. The blockers were applied intracellularly by diffusional leak of the agents from the recording microelectrode containing either 4-aminopyridine or a mixture of 4-aminopyridine and tetraethylammonium. A decrease in outward rectification, a measure of the block of the potassium conductances, was evident within 5 min of axon impalement. Within 30 min 80% of maximal blockade was observed during prolonged recording sessions (&gt; 1 h). Parallel with the resistance increase, the action potential duration increased (up to 5 ms). This was attributed to the block of gKf2. The excitability regularly increased, manifested as a train of action potentials (a decrease in accommodation) for a maximum of 200 ms (54 +/- 8 vs 111 +/- 22, 4-aminopyridine vs 4-aminopyridine-tetraethylammonium, respectively, n = 8 and 6, P &lt; 0.006). The presence of 4-aminopyridine-tetraethylammonium in the microelectrodes decreased the spike frequency adaptation (the instantaneous action potential frequency per spike interval number) observed in fibres treated with 4-aminopyridine alone (32 +/- 9 vs 7 +/- 1 Hz; 4-aminopyridine vs 4-aminopyridine-tetraethylammonium, n = 8 and 6, P &lt; 0.04). This effect was attributed to block of gKs by the tetraethylammonium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
After blockade of the voltage-dependent potassium conductances by intracellular application of 4-aminopyridine and tetraethylammonium in frog myelinated axons, a set of brief (0.1 ms) intracellular depolarizing pulses or a long (200 ms) depolarizing pulse evoked a train of action potentials. Under both experimental conditions a hyperpolarizing afterpotential appeared (duration 367 ms +/- 34, mean +/- S.E., n = 15). The purpose of this study was to investigate the properties of this hyperpolarizing afterpotential. It was found that the hyperpolarizing afterpotential increases in amplitude with: (1) the number of sodium-dependent action potentials; (2) action potential broadening (following potassium channels blockade); and (3) the level of depolarization during a current step. Application of tetrodotoxin prevented the activation of the hyperpolarizing afterpotential by any of the above stimuli. The hyperpolarizing afterpotential was unaffected by: (1) 8-acetyl-strophanthidin, an agent that poisons the electrogenic pumping in the axon; (2) blocking calcium influx with extracellular 10 mM magnesium or 2 mM manganese; and (3) buffering of the intracellular calcium, using EGTA in the recording microelectrode. Extracellular application of tetraethylammonium, but not 4-aminopyridine, reduced the hyperpolarizing afterpotential. The hyperpolarizing afterpotential reversed at &gt; -92 mV. Increasing the external potassium concentration from 2 to 10 mM shifted the reversal potential +14.5 mV, indicating that the hyperpolarizing afterpotential is a potassium mediated conductance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The identity of alpha 1 subunits from voltage operated Ca2+ channels was determined in the rat/mouse mesencephalon x N18TG2 hybridoma cell line MES23.5, by sequence analysis of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction products and antagonist binding. Sequences were derived from the L-(alpha 1D), Q-(alpha 1A) and omega-conotoxin GVIA sensitive N-type (alpha 1B) Ca2+ channel alpha 1 subunits. The amplified fragments, which are homologous to the region between domain III and IV of known alpha 1 subunits, reveal splice variation in the L- and Q-type alpha 1 subunit of MES23.5 cells. The transcripts of alpha 1 subunits in these cells were quantified by RNAase protection assay. The data show the existence of different Ca2+ channel types in a single cell line and may reflect multiple functions of voltage operated Ca2+ channels during growth, differentiation and transmitter release.
In this study, we have examined both the ability of various Ca2+ channel sub-types to support the release of [3H]glutamate from cerebellar granule neurons and the mechanism of action involved in the modulation of glutamate release by the GABAB receptor agonist, (-)-baclofen. Cerebellar granule neurons were stimulated to release newly synthesized [3H]glutamate by K(+)-evoked depolarization. Stimulated release was entirely calcium-dependent and abolished by the presence of 200 microM cadmium. Release of glutamate was not affected by either tetrodotoxin or 5-aminophosphonovaleric acid but was potentiated by dihydrokainate and inhibited by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Stimulated glutamate release was partially inhibited by both the L-type calcium channel blocker, nicardipine, and the N-type calcium channel blocker, omega-conotoxin GVIA; however, the P/Q-type calcium channel blocker omega-agatoxin IVA inhibited release of glutamate only after pre-incubation of cells with omega-conotoxin GVIA. K(+)-stimulated release of glutamate was observed when stimulated either in the presence of Ca2+ or of Ba2+ and similar inhibition of release by (-)-baclofen was seen under both conditions. In contrast to these results, ionomycin-evoked glutamate release was greatly reduced as compared to K(+)-evoked release and was not modulated by (-)-baclofen. In the presence of omega-conotoxin GVIA alone, inhibition of release by (-)-baclofen was attenuated but not abolished. Following block of nicardipine-sensitive channels, inhibition of release by (-)-baclofen was still present, and after prior block of omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive channels the presence of nicardipine restored the ability of (-)-baclofen to inhibit residual release of glutamate. Modulation of glutamate release by (-)-baclofen was unaffected by the presence of omega-agatoxin IVA alone; however, after block of both omega-conotoxin GVIA- and omega-agatoxin IVA-sensitive channels, inhibition of release by (-)-baclofen was completely abolished. These results indicate that multiple sub-types of voltage-dependent calcium channels are present on the presynaptic terminals of cerebellar granule neurons and support K(+)-stimulated release of [3H]glutamate. Modulation of release by GABAB receptor activation appears to be dependent upon interaction of this receptor with a number of voltage-sensitive calcium channels, including omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive and omega-agatoxin IVA-sensitive channels.
The function of serotonin afferents to the cerebellum has been investigated by monitoring the effects of serotoninergic drugs on the production of cyclic GMP elicited in cerebellar slices by activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors. Exposure of adult rat cerebellar slices to N-methyl-D-aspartate (1 nM to 1 microM) or to (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA; 1 nM to 10 microM) elicited concentration-dependent and saturable rises in the levels of cyclic GMP. These responses were blocked by selective antagonists at the N-methyl-D-aspartate or AMPA receptors and by inhibiting nitric oxide synthase, but were insensitive to tetrodotoxin. When tested between 0.1 and 10 nM, serotonin, the serotonin1A receptor agonist (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin and the serotonin2 receptor agonist (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane inhibited, concentration-dependently, the cyclic GMP responses evoked by near-maximal (0.1 microM) concentrations of N-methyl-D-aspartate or AMPA. The EC50 values (concentrations causing half-maximal effect) ranged between 0.7 and 2.1 nM. The actions of serotonin were totally abolished by methiothepin, a mixed-type serotonin receptor antagonist. Thus, the serotonergic cerebellar afferents may exert a potent inhibitory control on the excitatory transmission mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate and AMPA receptors; the inhibition occurs through both serotonin1A and serotonin2 receptors. As the glutamate receptor-dependent cyclic GMP responses involve production of nitric oxide, a diffusible activator of guanylate cyclase, the above inhibitory serotonin receptors may have multiple localization.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In a previous study we demonstrated that hindlimb somatic afferent stimulation evokes excitatory responses from neurons in nucleus tractus solitarius. When paired electrical stimuli were delivered to hindlimb somatic afferents, the unit response to the second stimulus was significantly reduced compared with responses to the first. This temporal response pattern has been termed time-dependent inhibition since responses to the second stimulus recover as the interval separating the first and second stimuli is increased. To examine possible synaptic mechanisms for somatic afferent-evoked time-dependent inhibition, intracellular recordings were made from nucleus tractus solitarius neurons in anesthetized, paralysed rats. Skeletal muscle afferent fibers were activated by electrically stimulating the right tibial nerve in the hindlimb and neuronal responses recorded in the contralateral nucleus of the solitary tract. Time-dependent inhibition of tibial nerve-evoked unit discharge was studied using a conditioning-test stimulation procedure, with the first (conditioning) and second (test) stimuli separated by intervals of 50, 150 and 250 ms. In 49 units that responded to tibial nerve stimulation, 46 were excited and three were inhibited. Among units excited, 25 displayed a unimodal response that had an onset latency of 21.3 +/- 5.9 ms. The remaining 21 units responded with a bimodal discharge pattern characterized by both a short-latency and a long-latency response. The onset latency of the early response was 23.7 +/- 5.3 ms and was not statistically different from the unimodal response onset latency. The onset latency of the late response was 143 +/- 23.9 ms.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The parabrachial complex is made up of at least 11 cytoarchitectonically distinct subnuclei which differ in their anatomical connections and neurotransmitter content, as well as the functions they subserve. To determine whether parabrachial subnuclei also express different types of glutamate receptors, we undertook a light microscopic examination of the regional distribution of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptor subunits within the parabrachial complex using antibodies directed against synthetic peptides corresponding to the C-terminal parts of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptor subunits. Antibodies that recognize GluR1 subunits stained cells mainly in the central lateral parabrachial subnucleus, whereas GluR4 antibodies selectively stained cells in the internal lateral subnucleus. In contrast, antibodies directed against the GLuR2/3 subunits stained neurons in every parabrachial subnucleus, although the most dense labelling was seen in the external lateral cell group. These differences in expression of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4- isoxazolepropionate receptor subtypes may eventually allow selective activation or inhibition of specific subsets of neurons in the parabrachial complex.
We have reported previously that a selective metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD), caused two primary postsynaptic membrane changes, namely, a slow membrane depolarization, and burst firing in rat dorsolateral septal nucleus neurons. In addition, (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid also potentiates a slow after depolarization in rat dorsolateral septal nucleus neurons. We now report that, among all the postsynaptic membrane changes induced by (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, only the burst firing was selectively blocked by pertussis toxin pretreatment. Thus, aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid induced burst firing was mediated by a metabotropic receptor coupled to a pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding protein, while the other induced cellular responses may be mediated by metabotropic glutamate receptors insensitive to pertussis toxin. We further characterized this receptor pharmacologically. This metabotropic receptor is activated by several metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists, but is insensitive to L-glutamate or L-aspartate. On the basis of its agonist activity profile, particularly the ineffectiveness of glutamate as an agonist, we have tentatively assigned the name aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid metabotropic receptor, to this native, pertussis toxin-sensitive metabotropic receptor in the dorsolateral septal nucleus. Furthermore, this receptor is coupled to protein kinase C, probably via a phospholipase C independent pathway.
The effects of maximal electroshock, used as a model of generalized seizures, were studied on extracellular GABA and glutamate levels in the ventral hippocampus of the freely-moving rat, using in vivo microdialysis. Following a maximal electroshock there was a rapid decline in GABA levels (46 +/- 5%) in the 20 min immediately after the seizure and levels remained depressed for a further 60 min. However, although there was a transient small decrease (11 +/- 2%) in glutamate levels in the first 20 min post-ictally, there followed a more prolonged, larger increase in the next 40 min. Maximal electroshock, administered in the absence of extracellular calcium, did not change GABA levels, while glutamate levels were again increased (42 +/- 8%) in the 40-80 min after the shock. Local perfusion with nickel (1 mM) to block T-type calcium channels had no effect on basal GABA or glutamate levels but prevented maximal electroshock-induced changes in both amino acids. Experiments were carried out to test the hypothesis that the post-ictal increased glutamate release was due to the decrease in GABA release. Perfusion with the potent GABA re-uptake inhibitor NNC-711, for 60 min prior to administration of maximal electroshock, increased GABA levels (436 +/- 58%) and abolished the seizure-induced decrease. Basal glutamate levels were not affected by perfusion with NNC-711 but subsequent maximal electroshock also failed to affect levels. Local perfusion with the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline (1, 10 and 100 microM) had no effect on basal GABA levels but glutamate levels were increased (46 +/- 5%) after perfusion with 100 microM bicuculline.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In a particular brain region specific changes in inhibition or excitation may be the basis of seizure initiation. Alternatively, changes in the balance of excitation and inhibition in the circuit, which may be detectable as polysynaptic responses may be more important indicators of epileptogenesis. That the appearance of polysynaptic responses precedes the initiation and, therefore, may be necessary for the onset of epileptiform activity in the hippocampal-parahippocampal circuit was tested using the chemical convulsant pentylenetetrazol. Excitation and paired-pulse inhibition were measured in CA1 and the dentate gyrus of the urethane-anaesthetized rat before and after administration of pentylenetetrazol. In addition, three polysynaptic responses were monitored. In both CA1 and the dentate gyrus, pentylenetetrazol, 100 mg/kg, caused a trend towards increased excitability and caused a relatively mild loss of inhibition. Two polysynaptic responses appeared in the dentate gyrus after the administration of pentylenetratrazol, both apparently mediated through the entorhinal cortex. A polysynaptic response of the CA1 pyramidal neurons to contralateral angular bundle stimulation was not observed. These experiments demonstrate that pentylenetetrazol will facilitate only the appearance of polysynaptic responses mediated through the entorhinal cortex. These results support the hypothesis that pentylenetetrazol has a specific action within the entorhinal cortex that may facilitate the synchronization and spread of epileptiform activity. These results are also consistent with the hypothesis that the appearance of polysynaptic responses may be necessary for the onset of epileptogenesis in the hippocampal-parahippocampal circuit.
The binding of the GABAA/benzodiazepine receptor agonist [3H]flunitrazepam was studied in the hippocampus of rats kindled by daily stimulation of the Schaffer collaterals, using semi-quantitative autoradiography. Two kindled stages were investigated: (i) 24 h after the last generalized tonic-clonic seizure (fully kindled) and (ii) 28 days after the last generalized seizure (long-term). The binding of [3H]flunitrazepam was determined at two concentrations, 3 and 16 nM. In the CA1 area, we found a small but significant decrease (ca. 10%), both in the 3 and 16 nM [3H]flunitrazepam binding at the fully kindled stage. In contrast, there was a significant increase in the 3 nM binding (c. 15%) at the long-term stage. The 16 nM binding was not significantly different from control binding at this stage. In the granular and molecular layers of the fascia dentata, we found at both kindled stages a significantly increased 3 nM (ca. 9 and 19%, respectively) and 16 nM (ca. 19 and 14%, respectively) binding. Furthermore, we found that muscimol was still able to enhance the [3H]flunitrazepam binding in kindled animals, indicating that the GABAA receptor agonist binding site and benzodiazepine agonist binding site are still functionally coupled. The changes in [3H]flunitrazepam binding at the fully kindled stage are in agreement with the recently observed kindling-induced changes in [3H]muscimol binding in the hippocampal formation of the same animals [Titulaer M. N. G. et al. (1994) Neuroscience 59, 817-826] and extend these observations to the benzodiazepine modulatory site of the GABAA receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of temperature changes in the medium on the evoked potentials of pyramidal neurons in response to the electrical stimulation of Schaffer collaterals was investigated in both young (one to two months) and aged (24-28 months) rat hippocampal slices. Temperature increase was shown to reduce, and subsequent temperature decrease to enhance, the population spike amplitude in both young and aged rats. Temperature decrease produced a long-lasting (&gt; 30 min) and important potentiation (180%) of population spike amplitude in young but not in aged rats. Long-term post-tetanic potentiation was maintained in young but suppressed in aged rats by temperature changes. The impairment of temperature-induced potentiation in aged rats is suggested as a tool for studying promnesic drugs.
Studies were performed in vivo on the dentate gyrus to investigate the possible involvement of Type I and Type II adrenal steroid receptors in the mediation of reported adrenal steroid effects on long-term potentiation, through the use of specific Type I and Type II receptor agonists and antagonists. In adrenalectomized rats, administration of aldosterone, a specific Type I agonist, produced a marked enhancement in long-term potentiation, in comparison to either the adrenalectomized or sham adrenalectomized controls. Administration of RU 28318, a Type I antagonist, which by itself had minimal effects, blocked the aldosterone enhancement. In contrast, administration of the specific Type II agonist, RU 28362, produced a marked decrement in the induction of long-term potentiation. The RU 28362 effect was blocked by a prior injection of the Type II antagonist, RU 38486. Neither adrenalectomy nor administration of any of the steroid agonists or antagonists had noticeable effects on neuronal excitability (as determined by the field potentials), nor on post-tetanic potentiation. These findings are consistent with other studies that have shown a biphasic effect of increasing levels of corticosterone on long-term or prime burst potentiation. Taken together, these studies suggest that Type I receptors, with a high affinity for corticosterone, and Type II receptors, having a lower affinity for corticosterone, form a two-level recognition system to modulate induced synaptic plasticity in opposite directions in the dentate gyrus and possibly also in Ammon's horn.
The effects of adrenal steroids on synaptic plasticity were investigated in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Experiments were performed in either adrenalectomized or intact (non-adrenalectomized), anesthetized rats. High-frequency stimulation was applied to the medial perforant pathway at three different frequencies; 100, 200 or 400 Hz, either post- or pre- and post-administration of the specific Type-II adrenal steroid receptor agonist RU 28362. High-frequency stimulation prior to RU 28362 administration produced a frequency-dependent long-term potentiation of the population spike, with 100 Hz showing no long-term potentiation and 400 Hz the highest degree of potentiation. In contrast, following administration of RU 28362, high-frequency stimulation produced a long-term depression (in comparison to baseline). In the experiments in which high-frequency stimulation was applied both pre- and post-RU 28362 administration, the size of the population spike was initially potentiated and then depotentiated after the RU 28362 injection. This effect was also frequency dependent, although opposite to the long-term potentiation effect. That is, 400 Hz was the least effective frequency for inducing long-term depression/depotentiation, while 100 Hz was the most effective. Long-term depression/depotentiation was immediate following high-frequency stimulation and lasted for the extent of the recording session, in some cases longer than 1 h. Similar to the finding reported in the accompanying paper, induction of long-term potentiation was substantially suppressed by RU 28362. However, in a number of experiments long-term potentiation could still be induced after RU 28362 administration, even after long-term depression/depotentiation had been established. In these cases, stimulation at the higher frequencies was necessary.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Reports of glucocorticoid effects on neurotrophin expression suggest that adrenal hormones may contribute to the pattern of changes in the expression of these factors induced by neuronal activity and seizures. To examine this possibility, the present study evaluated the influence of adrenalectomy on basal expression and seizure-induced alterations in levels of nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and neurotrophin-3 messenger RNAs in hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, and superficial neocortex. For determination of hormone effects on basal expression, adult male rats were adrenalectomized and killed 10-14 days later with paired adrenal-intact controls. For studies of adrenal steroid involvement in expression following seizure, adrenalectomized and adrenal-intact rats received a seizure-producing lesion of the dentate gyrus hilus. Changes in neurotrophin messenger RNA content were assessed by quantitative in situ hybridization. Adrenalectomy alone had no significant effect on brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA content but did result in cell-specific decreases in nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3 messenger RNAs. Nerve growth factor messenger RNA levels were reduced in hippocampal stratum granulosum, entorhinal cortex, and neocortex but not in cells of the hippocampal molecular layers or hilus. With adrenalectomy, neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA was virtually eliminated from CA2 stratum pyramidale, partially reduced in stratum granulosum, but unaffected in neurons of the hippocampal molecular layers or entorhinal cortex. These effects were partially reversed by corticosterone (2 mg/l) supplement to the drinking saline. In experimental-seizure rats, adrenalectomy did not alter the direction or basic pattern of seizure-induced changes in neurotrophin expression but did change the time courses and magnitudes of these effects. In all areas measured, brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA content was more greatly and persistently elevated by seizure in adrenalectomized as compared with adrenal-intact rats. In contrast, with adrenalectomy seizures induced smaller increases in nerve growth factor messenger RNA content. Adrenalectomy augmented the decrease in neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA induced by seizure in hippocampus but not in entorhinal cortex. These results demonstrate that adrenal hormones play a major role in the regulation of basal nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA expression by specific populations of forebrain neurons. Moreover, the adrenal steroids have opposite effects on activity-dependent changes in brain-derived neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor messenger RNA levels but are not required for the basic pattern of changes in neurotrophin messenger RNA expression elicited by recurrent seizures.
Neuronal activities were recorded from the amygdala and amygdalostriatal transition area of behaving rats during discrimination of conditioned auditory, visual, olfactory, and somatosensory stimuli associated with positive and/or negative reinforcements. Neurons were also tested with taste solution and various sensory stimuli that were not associated with reinforcement. Of the 1195 neurons tested, 475 responded to one or more sensory stimuli. Of these, 256 neurons responded exclusively to a unimodal sensory stimulus, 128 to multimodal sensory stimuli, and the remaining 91 could not be classified. Distribution of unimodal neurons was correlated with anatomical projections to the amygdala from sensory thalamus or sensory cortices. Multimodal neurons were located mainly in the basolateral and central nuclei of the amgydala. Response latencies of neurons in the basolateral nucleus were longer than those in other nuclei and neurons in the central nucleus had both short and long latencies. Neurons responsive to a given stimulus were more frequently encountered in the amygdalas of the trained rats than in those of the rats not trained to associate that stimulus with a reinforcement. Multimodal neurons that responded to conditioned and/or unconditioned stimuli used in the associative learned tasks were concentrated in the basolateral and central nuclei. The results indicate that some amygdalar neurons receive exclusive single sensory information, and the others receive information from two or more sensory inputs. Considering the long latencies and multimodal responsiveness, the basolateral and central nuclei of the amygdala might be foci where various kinds of sensory information converge. It is also suggested that the basolateral and central nuclei of the amygdala have critical roles in associative learning to relate sensory information to reinforcement or affective significance.
Generators of somatosensory evoked potentials, elicited by electrical stimulation of the median nerve in anaesthetized monkeys (Macaca fuscata), were investigated by submitting a three-dimensional reconstructed brain model to dipole tracing, which can equate surface potential distributions to an approximate corresponding equivalent dipole. The following components of the somatosensory evoked potentials were simultaneously recorded from 21-27 epidural electrodes: P7 (the letter indicates positive or negative polarity; the number indicates the approximate latency of the peak in ms) was recorded widely from various locations on both the left and right hemispheres, P10 was recorded near the anterior side of the central sulcus contralateral to the stimulation side, N10 was recorded near the posterior side of the contralateral central sulcus, P12 was recorded on both sides of the contralateral central sulcus, and P18 was recorded posterior to the contralateral central sulcus. Current source generators (dipoles) of each component of somatosensory evoked potentials were localized by dipole tracing: a dipole for P7 was located in the thalamus contralateral to the stimulation side; a dipole for P10 and N10 in the posterior wall of the contralateral central sulcus (area 3b); a dipole for P12 in the contralateral post central gyrus (areas 1 and 2); and a dipole for P18 in the anterior wall of the contralateral intraparietal sulcus (area 5). The locations and latencies of dipoles that generated cortical components of somatosensory evoked potentials, estimated by dipole tracing, were confirmed by direct cortical surface recording from a 16-25 electrode array placed directly on the cortical surface; and multiple unit recording from the anterior and posterior parietal cortices. After excision of area 5, P18 and N18 were abolished, whereas P10, N10, and P12 were not affected. The results suggest that dipoles for somatosensory evoked potentials progressed from the thalamus to area 5 via the primary somatosensory area. This progress is consistent with the hierarchical sequence of somatosensory information processing.
Background and evoked impulse activity of sensorimotor cortex neurons and conditioned reflex of trained cats were changed by blockers of noradrenaline and serotonin receptors applied through chemitrodes to thalamic complex of the centrum medianum and nucleus parafascicularis neurons. Application of obzidan, an antagonist of beta-adrenoreceptor to the complex of the centrum medianum and nucleus parafascicularis induced an initial increase and following decrease of the motor activity of cats. After obzidan application conditioned reflex remained unchanged at the initial, excitatory phase and started to decrease later. Lisergamide applied to the complex of the centrum medianum and nucleus parafuscicularis produced an initial decrease of movement activity and then drowsiness of the animals. Responses to conditioned stimuli were gradually decreased. The background impulse activity of the sensorimotor cortex neurons increased after obzidan application and decreased rapidly after lisergamide injection into the complex of the centrum medianum and nucleus parafascicularis. The responses of cortical neurons to conditioned stimuli were reduced, sometimes completely eliminated in both cases. Background and evoked impulse activity greatly increased by application of 5-hydroxytryptamine after preliminary lisergamide-induced depression of the impulse activity. It was concluded that under natural conditions the noradrenergic system exerts indirect inhibitor effects on the neocortex neurons through the centrum medianum and nucleus parafascicularis thalamic complex, whereas the serotoninergic system acting via the same complex increases the background and evoked impulse activity of the sensorimotor cortical neurons.
The effects of electrical stimulation and electrolytic lesion of the thalamic intralaminar centrolateral nucleus were studied in the rat brain by means of the quantitative autoradiographic [14C]deoxyglucose method. Unilateral electrical stimulation of the centrolateral nucleus induced: (i) local increase in metabolic activity within the stimulated centrolateral nucleus and the ipsilateral thalamic mediodorsal nucleus, (ii) metabolic depression in all layers of the ipsilateral frontal cortex, (iii) bilateral increase in glucose consumption within the periaqueductal gray, pedunculopontine nucleus, and pontine reticular formation, and (iv) contralateral metabolic activation in the deep cerebellar nuclei. The unilateral electrolytic lesion of the thalamic centrolateral nucleus elicited metabolic depressions in several distal brain areas. The metabolic depression elicited in the mediodorsal, ventrolateral, and lateral thalamic nuclei, as well as in the caudate nucleus, the cingulate, and the superficial layers of forelimb cortex were ipsilateral to the lesioned side. The metabolic depression measured in the medulla and pons (medullary and pontine reticular formation, periaqueductal gray, locus coeruleus, dorsal tegmental, cuneiformis, raphe and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei), the cerebellum (molecular and granular layers of the cerebellar cortex, interpositus and dentate nuclei), the mesencephalon (substantia nigra reticulata, ventral tegmental area and deep layers of the superior colliculus), the diencephalon (medial habenula, parafascicular, ventrobasal complex, centromedial and reticular thalamic nuclei), the rhinencephalon (dentate gyrus and septum), the basal ganglia (ventral pallidum, globus pallidus, entopeduncular and accumbens nuclei) and the cerebral cortex (superficial and deep layers of the frontal and parietal cortex, deep layers of the forelimb cortex) were bilateral. These functional effects are discussed in relation to known anatomical pathways. The bilateral effects induced by the centrolateral nucleus lesion reflect an important role of the centrolateral nucleus in the processing of reticular activating input and in the interhemispheric transfer of information. The cortical metabolic depression induced by centrolateral nucleus stimulation indicates the participation of this nucleus in attentional functions.
The [14C]-deoxyglucose quantitative autoradiographic method was used to map the metabolic changes induced by electrical stimulation and electrolytic lesion of the rostral pole of the thalamic reticular nucleus in the rat brain. Unilateral electrical stimulation of the thalamic reticular nucleus induced the following changes in glucose utilization: (i) local enhancement of metabolic activity within the stimulated thalamic reticular nucleus, (ii) increase in glucose consumption in the ipsilateral thalamic mediodorsal, centrolateral, ventromedial and ventrolateral nuclei, as well as in the nucleus accumbens, (iii) bilateral depression of metabolism in the locus coeruleus, periaqueductal gray, ventral tegmental area, and medial habenula, as well as contralateral metabolic depression in the substantia nigra reticulata, compacta and in the ventral pallidum. Unilateral electrolytic lesion of thalamic reticular nucleus elicited metabolic depression in the ipsilateral thalamic mediodorsal, centrolateral, ventrolateral and ventromedial nuclei, and metabolic activation in the dorsal tegmental nucleus bilaterally. The existence of a descending thalamic reticular nucleus input to the periaqueductal gray is supported by the depressed activity measured in brain stem structures after thalamic reticular nucleus stimulation. The similar effects observed in the periaqueductal gray and substantia nigra contralateral to the stimulated thalamic reticular nucleus indicate a possible flow of information from one thalamic reticular nucleus to the contralateral basal ganglia via the periaqueductal gray. The opposite effects induced in the dorsal thalamic nuclei by thalamic reticular nucleus stimulation and lesion support the gating role of the thalamic reticular nucleus in the information flow between thalamus and cortex.
Huntington's disease is a genetic disease, autosomal and dominant, that induces motor disorders, an inexorable deterioration of higher brain functions and psychiatric disturbances. At present, there are no known therapeutics against Huntington's disease. The Network of European CNS Transplantation and Restoration (NECTAR) has begun a program aimed at defining the conditions under which intrastriatal transplantation of fetal striatal cells could be attempted as an experimental treatment for Huntington's disease. This review presents the reasons why our group is considering participating in these trials. The validity of this therapeutic approach is supported by three main series of data: (i) neuropathological, clinical and imaging data indicate that Huntington's disease is, above all, a localized affection of a specific neuronal population (&quot;medium-spiny&quot; neurons) in the striatum; (ii) a large body of experimental results, obtained in rats and non-human primates, demonstrates that transplanted fetal striatal cells are able to integrate the host brain and to substitute for previously lesioned host striatal neurons; (iii) expertise in clinical neural transplantation has now been acquired from the treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease. These different sets of data are presented and discussed in this review. There are a number of problems which do not yet appear to be entirely resolved, nor are they likely to be using the experimental models currently available. These problems are identified and explicitly presented as working hypotheses. (1) Anatomo-functional results obtained in rodents and non-human primates with excitotoxic striatal lesions can serve as a basis for the extrapolation of what can be obtained from patients with Huntington's disease. (2). Huntington's disease can be efficiently fought by substituting degenerated striatal neurons alone. (3) Huntington's disease is due to a genetic defect which either hits the neurons that carry it directly or hits them indirectly only after several decades. Transplanted neurons, because they do not carry the gene or because they are of fetal origin, will not be rapidly affected by the ongoing disease process. Given the current state of knowledge, intracerebral transplantation appears to be the most serious opportunity (if not the only one that has been experimentally validated) for clinical improvement to be obtained in patients with Huntington's disease. The purpose of this review is to open a scientific discussion on its experimental bases before actual clinical trials start.
Changes in the level of dopaminergic activity in the rat striatum lead to the induction of a number of immediate-early genes, including c-fos and zif/268. These immediate-early genes are thought in turn to alter the rate of transcription of downstream genes. There is evidence that the dopaminergic activation of the c-fos and zif/268 genes in the striatum in vivo is linked to stimulation of D1-like dopamine receptors. We have used primary cultures of embryonic rat striatal neurons to identify the intracellular pathways involved in this response. Dopamine (10 nM-5 microM) caused a marked increase in the levels of c-fos mRNA and zif/268 mRNA in cultured striatal neurons, an effect that was reproduced by the D1-like dopamine receptor agonist SKF38393 (10 nM-5 microM). These actions were attenuated by the D1-like antagonist SCH23390 (1 microM) but not by the D2-like antagonist eticlopride (1 microM). The D2-like agonist quinpirole did not increase zif/268 mRNA above basal levels at concentrations up to 5 microM, but caused a slight increase in the levels of c-fos mRNA. The stimulation of c-fos mRNA levels caused by 1 microM SKF38393 was reduced by 45% following pretreatment with the selective protein kinase A inhibitor KT5720, and by 87% following pretreatment with the selective protein kinase C inhibitor calphostin C. The stimulation of zif/268 mRNA levels caused by 1 microM SKF38393 was reduced by 90% following pretreatment with KT5720, but was not significantly affected by pretreatment with calphostin C. In addition, the actions of SKF38393 to stimulate the expression of both immediate-early genes were attenuated by coadministration of quinpirole. These results suggest that SKF38393 acts on striatal neurons to stimulate c-fos expression predominantly through protein kinase C, but also partially through protein kinase A. Conversely, SKF38393 induces zif/268 expression through protein kinase A. The ability of quinpirole to antagonize the actions of SKF38393 on cultured neurons is consistent with the presence of both D1-like receptors on the same neuronal population.
In this study, the effects of a single dose of the indirect dopamine agonists amphetamine and methamphetamine on behavior and messenger RNA expression were evaluated. Expression of c-fos, a member of the leucine zipper family, zif/268 (NGFI-A, egr1 and Krox-24), a member of the zinc finger family, and the opioid peptide, preprodynorphin, was investigated in various regions of rat forebrain with quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry 1, 2, 3, 6 or 30 h after injection. Behavioral observations indicated that a qualitatively different behavioral syndrome was induced following methamphetamine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) as compared with that observed after amphetamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.). Similarly, methamphetamine induced a different pattern of c-fos and zif/268 messenger RNA induction in sensory/motor cortex, dorsal striatum (caudatoputamen) and ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens) than did amphetamine. The increase in c-fos messenger RNA expression peaked at 1 h and returned to basal levels in all regions by 3 h. In contrast, the increase in zif/268 messenger RNA expression in the cortical regions was equally strong at 1 and 2 h, gradually returning to basal levels by 6 h after either drug. However, in the striatal regions, zif/268 messenger RNA levels peaked at 1 h and declined gradually to basal levels by 6 h. Interestingly, methamphetamine caused an actual suppression of zif/268 gene expression (&gt; 50%) in both caudatoputamen and nucleus accumbens at 3 h. Preprodynorphin messenger RNA expression was increased in a patchy motif in the caudatoputamen and nucleus accumbens beginning at 2 h and returning to basal levels by 30 h after injection of either drug. This study, together with our recently published observation that preprodynorphin messenger RNA is induced in the caudate 3, 6 and 18 h after amphetamine or methamphetamine injection, provides a detailed dynamic description of the differential modulation of c-fos, zif/268 and preprodynorphin messenger RNA expression in the cerebral cortex and striatum by amphetamines over time. These data implicate immediate early gene and preprodynorphin gene expression in the differential response of medium spiny striatal neurons to methamphetamine and amphetamine.
An in situ hybridization study showed that limbic seizures induced by kainate strongly augmented the prodynorphin and proenkephalin messenger RNA levels in granular cells of the rat hippocampal dentate gyrus. Pentylenetetrazole increased the level of proenkephalin messenger RNA, but slightly decreased that of prodynorphin messenger RNA in the dentate gyrus. Administration of kainate to rats caused a profound increase in messenger RNAs of the transcription factor genes c-fos and c-jun in the dentate gyrus, followed by an increase in the level of the transcriptional complex activator protein-1 in hippocampal neurons. Pentylenetetrazole also elevated the formation of activator protein-1, but the effect appeared earlier than that induced by kainate. Thus, recurrent limbic seizures activate both prodynorphin and proenkephalin genes, whereas generalized clonic-tonic seizures seem to decrease the prodynorphin and increase the proenkephalin gene expression in the dentate gyrus. Furthermore, our present results suggest that the transcription factors, c-fos, c-jun and activator protein-1 complex may be involved in the process of inducing the hippocampal proenkephalin gene, while these factors might be differently involved in regulation of prodynorphin gene expression.
Preconditioning of the gerbil brain with a 2-min period of sublethal ischemia protects against neuronal damage following a subsequent 3-min period of ischemia which normally damages CA1 neurons of the hippocampus (ischemic tolerance). In this study, we investigated the role of a small stress protein, heat shock protein-27, in the induction of ischemic tolerance. For this purpose, we used immunohistochemistry with an antibody against heat shock protein-27. Normal hippocampus contained very low levels of heat shock protein-27. The preconditioning ischemia for 2 min caused little changes in the heat shock protein-27 immunostaining in CA1 neurons but an increase in heat shock protein-27 immunostaining in a small number of astrocytes in the CA3 region and in many astrocytes in the dentate hilus. The second ischemia for 3 min caused no specific changes in heat shock protein-27 immunostaining in CA1 neurons both with and without tolerance in early reperfusion periods. After seven days, destruction of CA1 neurons occurred in animals without preconditioning and reactive astrocytes were intensely immunostained for heat shock protein-27. An intense heat shock protein-27 immunostaining was also seen in astrocytes in the dentate hilus after the second ischemia in both groups. Thus, we observed no temporal correlation between the induction of heat shock protein-27 and the manifestation of ischemic tolerance in the CA1 neurons. Most intense heat shock protein-27 immunostaining was observed in reactive astrocytes that accumulated in the damaged CA1 region and dentate hilus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Heparin-binding growth-associated molecule is a potent neurotrophic factor. To obtain a better understanding of its role in the central nervous system, we studied the changes of its expression in adult rat brain after two types of neuronal injury. In the control hippocampus, expression of heparin-binding growth-associated molecule messenger RNA was confined to CA1 pyramidal neurons and some hilar cells. Following transient forebrain ischaemia, the messenger RNA expression decreased within the first two days. On day 4, however, both the messenger RNA level and the number of expression-positive cells markedly increased in the CA1 subfield, where the selective neuronal losses were seen following ischaemia. Double-staining with a heparin-binding growth-associated molecule complementary RNA probe and an anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein antibody revealed that most of the expressing cells were reactive astrocytes. Moreover, the protein induction of heparin-binding growth-associated molecule after neuronal injury was demonstrated by immunohistochemistry using the affinity-purified antibodies. This molecule was also induced after intraventricular kainate injection, which is known to cause selective pyramidal cell necrosis in the CA3 region. Four days after the insult, the number of cells expressing the messenger RNA prominently increased in the CA3 subfield ipsilateral to the injection. As observed after the ischaemic insult, most of the expression-positive cells were identified as astrocytes. The data presented here suggest that heparin-binding growth-associated molecule, produced by the reactive astrocytes, may play important roles in the repair process after neuronal injury.
The sequential activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase and its substrate, the mitogen-activated protein kinase is involved in a cascade of protein kinases which link a number of cell surface signals to intracellular changes in enzyme activity and gene expression. In vitro, mitogen-activated protein kinase is able to phosphorylate the microtubule-associated protein tau at Ser-Pro and Thr-Pro sites, thereby generating abnormally hyperphosphorylated tau species that are similar to paired helical filament-tau found in Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, we analysed the levels of immunoreactive mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase in the temporal cortex (area 22) of patients with Alzheimer's disease by means of enzyme-linked immuno-sorbent assays and compared these changes with the content of abnormally phosphorylated paired helical filament-tau. The levels of immunochemically detected mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase were both increased in Alzheimer's disease by between 35 and 40% compared with age-matched controls. Elevation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase was most pronounced during early stages of Alzheimer's disease and was inversely related to the tissue content of abnormally phosphorylated paired helical filament-tau. Pronounced immunoreactivity of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase was present in both tangle bearing neurons and unaffected neurons of the temporal cortex. Immunoreactive neurons were most often localized in the direct vicinity of neuritic plaques. In Alzheimer's disease, the subcellular distribution of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase showed a striking translocation from the cytoplasmic to the nuclear compartment. It is suggested that the activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade which appears to be an early feature of Alzheimer's disease might be critically involved in self-stimulating processes of neurodegeneration and aberrant repair under these conditions.
We have investigated the role of cortico-cortical inputs from the primary somatosensory cortex in the induction of long-lasting potentiation in the secondary somatosensory cortex. Long-lasting potentiation of evoked potentials in the feline secondary somatosensory cortex is induced by high frequency stimulation of the ventral posterolateral thalamic nucleus. The secondary somatosensory cortex receives two projections from the ventral posterolateral thalamic nucleus; a direct pathway from the ventral posterolateral thalamic nucleus and a cortico-cortical pathway via the primary somatosensory cortex. The present study was designed to examine dominance of these pathways in the induction of long-lasting potentiation in the secondary somatosensory cortex. Long-lasting potentiation was evaluated by changes in the amplitude of field potentials and current source densities elicited by ventral posterolateral thalamic nucleus test stimulation (0.1 Hz) following conditioning stimulation. The conditioning stimulation, consisting of 20 trains of 200 Hz bursts, was delivered to the ventral posterolateral thalamic nucleus or the primary somatosensory cortex. Field potentials in the secondary somatosensory cortex were simultaneously recorded at 16 points placed vertically at 150 microns intervals from the cortical surface and current source density was computed using these field potentials. First, we blocked inputs from the primary somatosensory cortex to the secondary somatosensory cortex by intracortical injection of lidocaine into the primary somatosensory cortex. The amplitudes of the field potentials recorded in the secondary somatosensory cortex diminished within 5 min after lidocaine injection. Current source density analysis showed a marked decrease in the sink currents in layers II/III (at depths of 450-600 microns).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A loss of target-derived neurotrophic factors is hypothesized to be one of the major determinants of central nervous system neuronal degeneration. In order to obtain further insight into early neuronal responses to injury, lesion-induced alterations in the expression of high- and low-affinity nerve growth factor receptors, as well as growth-associated phosphoprotein-43 genes in nucleus basalis magnocellularis, thalamic and neocortical neurons were studied. For this purpose, unilateral cortical devascularization operations were conducted on adult rats. Animals received i.c.v. infusions of vehicle or nerve growth factor (12 micrograms/day) and were killed at one, three, seven and 15 days post-lesion. In situ hybridization studies using 35S-labelled oligonucleotide probes for p75NGFR, p140trk and growth-associated phosphoprotein-43 messenger RNAs reveals that these genes were differentially regulated following the lesion. In the nucleus basalis magnocellularis ipsilateral to the lesion, p140trk gene expression significantly decreased on days 3 and 7, while p75NGFR messenger RNA initially increased on day 3 and decreased on days 7 and 15 after lesion. GAP-43 messenger RNA levels were significantly increased in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis on post-lesion days 3 and 7. Moreover, in contrast to p75NGFR or 140trk, growth-associated phosphoprotein-43 messenger RNA levels were significantly increased in pyramidal neurons located in the remaining cortex adjacent to the cortical lesion at all time points. In the lateral and ventroposterior nuclei of the thalamus, growth-associated phosphoprotein-43 messenger RNA level was slightly increased on days 1 and 3 and was dramatically decreased, significantly below the levels in sham-operated controls, on post-lesion days 7 and 15. During nerve growth factor application, the level of p140trk messenger RNA in the lesioned nucleus basalis magnocellularis returned to values observed in the contralateral nucleus basalis magnocellularis while p75NGFR messenger RNA was increased above values noted in all animals not treated with nerve growth factor. Nerve growth factor treatment did not affect the expression of growth-associated phosphoprotein-43 messenger RNA in any of the areas studied. p140trk messenger RNA was not up-regulated during the time that nerve growth factor was applied, as observed for p75NGFR, but only eight days after interrupting nerve growth factor treatment. Three cell types, nucleus basalis magnocellularis, cortical pyramidal and thalamic neurons, were probably affected in different ways by the devascularization with respect to lesion extent. Consequently, the remaining number of synaptic contacts in each of these brain areas is most likely different which may lead to a differential regulation of growth-associated phosphoprotein-43 messenger RNA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In this paper, we show that exposure of chromaffin cells to high K+ (75 mM) for 5 min releases about 15% of total norepinephrine and 8% of total epinephrine contained in chromaffin cells. The measured resting membrane potential of these cells was -55 mV. Long (10 s) depolarizing electrical pulses applied from a holding potential of -55 mV to 5 mV, that would produce a depolarization similar to exposure to high K+ (75 mM), induced an inward Ca2+ current that inactivated with a time constant of about 0.8 s and promoted the influx of about 1 fmol of Ca2+ into the cell. Both high K+ and electrically-induced depolarization increased intracellular Ca2+ levels to a similar value (about 350 nM). Extrapolation would indicate that total Ca2+ influx in high K+ (75 mM)-stimulated 10(6) chromaffin cells would amount to 1 nmol which would promote the secretion of about 4.9 nmol of norepinephrine and 3.5 nmol of epinephrine from 10(6) chromaffin cells. The results indicate that Ca2+ influx in response to depolarization is short-lived, likely due to Ca(2+)-dependent inactivation of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. However, intracellular Ca2+ levels remain high as long as depolarization is present and long after Ca2+ influx has ceased. This would suggest that some processes related to either Ca2+ buffering or extrusion from the cell may be voltage dependent.
Nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity was found in a subpopulation of sympathetic postganglionic neurons in the cat stellate and lower lumbar ganglia. In the ganglia of other segments such cells were rare. Double staining for tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity and nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity or the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase reaction indicated that nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase reactivity was always co-localized and was confined to tyrosine hydroxylase-negative (presumably cholinergic) ganglion cells, and was present in most of them. The occurrence of nitric oxide synthase in two subpopulations of cholinergic postganglionic neurons was investigated in triple staining experiments. Presumptive sudomotor neurons have been previously defined as scattered cells containing calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity, usually accompanied by vasoactive intestinal peptide-like immunoreactivity: 99% of these contained nitric oxide synthase. Presumptive muscle vasodilator neurons have been previously identified as clumped cells with strong vasoactive intestinal peptide-like immunoreactivity but no calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity: 70% of these contained nitric oxide synthase. Sweat glands were found in the paw pad skin surrounded by varicose fibres showing calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity and vasoactive intestinal peptide-like immunoreactivity, confirming previous work. Such fibres also stained for nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase reactivity, although their staining was relatively weaker than in the corresponding cell bodies. Varicose fibres with the same chemical coding were also found around all large and most medium and small arteries in the paw skin as well as around arteriovenous anastomoses. Fibres with the muscle vasodilator coding (vasoactive intestinal peptide-like immunoreactivity without calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity) were not seen in paw skin. These results suggest that nitric oxide may act as a co-transmitter (with acetylcholine, substance P, vasoactive intestinal peptide and calcitonin gene-related peptide) in sudomotor neurons and (with acetylcholine and vasoactive intestinal peptide) in vasodilator neurons. Collateral branches of sudomotor neurons may innervate skin vessels, and release vasodilator transmitters including nitric oxide to cause the vasodilatation which provides the fluid supply for sweat formation. Alternatively, separate vasodilator neurons to skin may share the same chemical code as sudomotor neurons.
Vitronectin is a multifunctional protein involved in the regulation of the immune system and blood coagulation. Here we report that the expression of vitronectin is developmentally regulated in the embryonic retina of the chicken. Vitronectin immunoreactivity was detected in chicken retinas from embryonic day 5, encompassing the cell bodies of most neuroepithelial cells. At this developmental stage, alpha v integrin subunit expression was distributed across the retina, suggesting a ligand/receptor interaction. Expression of both vitronectin and alpha v increased during development and reached a maximum at embryonic day 9, a time when most differentiated neurons grow processes and initiate synapse formation. At this age, vitronectin immunoreactivity appeared to be located predominantly in the fiber and inner plexiform layers of the differentiated stratified retina. alpha v immunoreactivity and mRNA expression was seen associated with all layers formed by differentiated neurons, being most abundant in the ganglion cell and inner nuclear layers. Later in development, levels of vitronectin decreased and immunoreactivity appeared exclusively associated with the fiber layer. In accordance with this pattern of expression, vitronectin as a substrate sustained both proliferation and differentiation of cultured neuroepithelial cells from embryonic day 5 retinas. At later stages, vitronectin supported survival and neurite outgrowth of most differentiated neurons. Our data suggest that vitronectin is a ubiquitous component of the retinal extracellular matrix, serving as a substrate for developmental processes such as proliferation, differentiation of neuron progenitors, cell survival, and axonal and dendritic growth of differentiated neurons.
Humans with occluded vision were subjected to superslow tilts of the supporting platform, producing the inclination of the subject's body in the sagittal plane, but subthreshold for the most vestibular and proprioceptive phasic reactions. Two types of perturbation were used: sinusoidal tilts (frequency 0.007 Hz, amplitude 1.5 degrees) and ramps (amplitude 1.0 and 0.25 degrees, angular velocity 0.04 degrees/s). During slow sinusoidal tilts of the platform, the ankle angle and body position undergo periodical changes, but these changes have significant phase lead relative to the platform movement: 119 +/- 26 for ankle angle and 55 +/- 19 degrees for body sway. Gains were about 0.9 for both parameters. Large phase shift (tens of seconds) indicated a long delay in compensation of body inclination by ankle joint. The ramp tilt produced an initial body deviation followed by a slow (seconds or tens of seconds) approach of body position to a new steady level after the termination of ramp. Large slow body movements were superimposed with small irregular oscillations (about 10% of the amplitude of large displacements) of higher frequency. These oscillations resembled normal stabilograms on a stationary support. Thus, the usual process of stabilization of body gravity center was continued, though not around a fixed set-point but relative to a slowly changing position. Data obtained support the hypothesis that, besides operative control assigned to compensate deviations from a reference position, the system of postural control includes at least one additional level, which elaborates this reference using information about mutual position of body links, muscular torques and interaction with the support on the basis of criteria taking into account the energy cost of standing and demands for stability and security.
In a previous study, we have shown that neuropeptide Y inhibits the release of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone from the rat hypothalamus in vitro. The aim of the present study was to investigate the possible effect of neuropeptide Y on the regulation of proopiomelanocortin-derived peptides in vivo. Rats received acute or chronic administration of neuropeptide Y in the lateral ventricle and the amount of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone was measured in the hypothalamus and in the neurointermediate lobe of the pituitary. In the same experiments, the amounts of corticotropin-releasing factor and corticotropin were quantified in the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary, respectively. Acute treatment with synthetic neuropeptide Y (0.1 to 10 micrograms/rat) did not modify the amount of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone in the hypothalamus. In contrast, chronic infusion of neuropeptide Y (1.25 micrograms/h) over a seven day period significantly decreased the hypothalamic content of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, suggesting that neuropeptide Y regulates the synthesis and/or the processing of proopiomelanocortin. Concurrently, we found that both acute and chronic infusion of neuropeptide Y induced a significant reduction in corticotropin-releasing factor in the hypothalamus as well as a significant decrease in alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone and corticotropin in the neurointermediate and anterior lobes, respectively. Quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry showed that chronic administration of neuropeptide Y also caused a reduction of proopiomelanocortin messenger RNA levels both in the intermediate and anterior lobes of the pituitary. Administration of neuropeptide Y (10(-6) M) on perifused rat hypothalamic slices caused a significant increase in corticotropin-releasing factor release.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The ventral forebrain, including the ventral striatum, the ventral pallidum and the substantia innominata, is an important region involved in the functions of the basal ganglia and the limbic system, as well as the magnocellular corticopetal neurons of the nucleus basalis of Meynert. Although previous studies have shown that this region is richly innervated by GABAergic fibers, little is known with respect to the relative densities of GABAergic to non-GABAergic axon terminals in this region. To address this issue, we have developed a specific rabbit antiserum to GABA and used a postembedding immunocytochemical reaction to analyse the distribution of GABA-like immunoreactive axon terminals in the rat ventral striatum, ventral pallidum and substantia innominata. Of all axon terminals that form identifiable synapses within single ultrathin sections taken from these regions, 11.6% in the ventral striatum, 85.5% in the ventral pallidum and 64.8% in the substantia innominata were GABAergic. Differences were also found in the distribution patterns of these terminals with respect to the size of their synaptic target dendrites. These findings are consistent with previous findings that a majority of inputs to the ventral striatum are excitatory, and that a majority of inputs to the ventral pallidum are inhibitory. Our results provide a first approximation of the anatomical substrate for the physiology and pharmacology of GABA actions in the ventral forebrain region. These results also show that GABA may play an important role in the substantia innominata, where both the cholinergic and the non-cholinergic magnocellular corticopetal neurons reside within a neuropil innervated by many different non-cholinergic fibers.
Extracellular single activity was recorded from pericruciate neurons in anaesthetized, paralysed, artificially ventilated cats. A total of 309 neurons were identified antidromically by stimulation of the dorsal column nuclei (229 from the nuneate nucleus and 80 from the gracile nucleus). The study addressed the question whether pericruciate-dorsal column nuclei neurons (corticonuclear cells) sent collaterals to the ipsilateral red nucleus and/or to the contralateral nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis. Also, the ipsilateral pyramidal tract was stimulated at mid-olivary level, as was the crossed corticospinal tract at C2, Th2 and L2 levels in order to know whether the corticonuclear cells sent their axons to the spinal cord and if so to which level. It was found that more than 95% of the corticonuclear fibres coursed through the pyramidal tract. A significant (28.4%; 88/309) proportion of the the corticonuclear neurons sent collaterals to the red nucleus and/or to the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis. About 68% (209/309) of the corticonuclear cells did not send their axons to the spinal cord and the remainder were corticospinal neurons. Most of the corticospinal fibres terminated at the cervical level (72/100) and the remaining ended at thoracic (18/100) and lumbar (10/100) segments of the cord. While 63.4% (123/194) of the corticonuclear fibres coursing through the pyramidal tract and ending at supraspinal levels were slow conducting, the great majority of the corticospinal neurons were fast conducting (91/100). The non-corticospinal neurons were significantly slower conducting than the corticospinal cells. The corticogracile neurons were slower conducting than the corticocuneate cells. Of the 88 corticonuclear neurons that sent at least a branch to the sites tested, 50% branched into the red nucleus, 35.2% into the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis and 14.7% into both nuclei, without significant difference between non-corticospinal and corticospinal cells. Most of the main axons of the corticonuclear cells ended at bulbar and cervical levels (281/309 or 90.9%). The data indicate that pericruciate-dorsal column nuclei neurons form a particular substrate within pyramidal tract cells. They can serve precise functions in motor coordination associated with the selection of their own sensory input. The results are discussed from this point of view.
In the present study, we assessed the synaptic changes in aged impaired and unimpaired rats, and the effect of exogenous human nerve growth factor administration on behavioral activity and synaptic density. Human nerve growth factor was administered into the rat ventricles with a cannula connected to an osmotic pump in adult, aged impaired and unimpaired rats. Behavioral performance was evaluated in the Morris water maze. Aged impaired rats had an 18 +/- 4% decrease in the number of synaptophysinimmunoreactive presynaptic terminals as compared to aged unimpaired rats. After a continuous four-week human nerve growth factor, the aged impaired rats displayed a significant 16 +/- 3% increase in the number of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals in the frontal cortex, as compared to aged impaired rats treated with vehicle. This increase correlated with an improvement in water maze performance (r = -0.74, P &lt; 0.001). Measurements of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals in other cortical and subcortical regions did not show any statistically significant difference or correlations among the various groups. These results support the possibility that nerve growth factor mediates the induction of other trophic factors which, in turn, might potentially produce a sprouting response of non-cholinergic fibers that ameliorate the cognitive deficits in impaired, aged rats.
We observed the distribution pattern of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV in rat brain and spinal cord using an immunohistochemical method by light and electron microscopy. Particularly strong immunoreactivity was detected in the telencephalic structures such as the olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, hippocampal formation, caudate-putamen, most nuclei of the dorsal thalamus and the granule cell layer of the cerebellum. Relatively weak staining was observed in the amygdaloid body, some neuron groups of the brainstem reticular formation, the inferior olivary nucleus and the posterior horn of the spinal cord. Immunohistochemical reactivity was not detected in the globus pallidus, substantia nigra, sensory and motor nuclei of the cranial nerves, or in the spinal cord anterior horn. Overall, the distribution of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV-like immunoreactivity broadly paralleled the sites of expression of signals for messenger RNA of this enzyme. At the subcellular level, Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV-like immunoreactivity appeared exclusively in the nuclei of neurons in the various brain regions, and immunopositive reactivity, although less strong, was also observed in dendritic processes, as well as on the granular endoplasmic reticulum in neuronal somata in these areas. Axon terminals, however, did not show immunoreactivity. These studies demonstrate that Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV-like immunoreactivity is distributed widely in the central nervous system. The significance of the localization of this enzyme in nuclei is discussed in relation to gene expression.
We provide evidence for activation of the complement cascade in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and in the gracile nucleus in the brainstem following sciatic nerve transection in the adult rat. Immunocytochemical analyses showed immunoreactivity for endogenous immunoglobulin G as shown by immunostaining with F(ab')2 antibodies, as well as complement factors C1, C1q, C3, C3d and C9 in the appropriate central termination areas of the injured sciatic nerve. Results from double labelling immunocytochemistry showed a strong association between immunoglobulin and complement factors on the one hand and reactive microglia on the other. However, some complement immunoreactivity was also found in the neuropil, possibly representing secreted complement. In situ hybridization with an oligonucleotide probe showed a marked increase in C3 messenger RNA, indicating local synthesis of C3 protein. In parallel with activation of complement, there was an increased immunoreactivity for the putative complement inhibitor clusterin, which co-localized with glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes. In situ hybridization showed an increased labelling of clusterin messenger RNA. These findings indicate that complement activation and up-regulation of complement inhibitors are prominent central responses to peripheral sensory nerve injury. These responses may therefore be important elements underlying so-called transganglionic degenerative changes in primary sensory axons and terminals.
Recent evidence suggests that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors play an important role in the etiology and maintenance of chronic nociception. Previous studies have demonstrated that tissue injury or stimulation of nociceptive afferent projections results in the expansion of receptive fields, hyperalgesia and C-fiber-induced wind-up, events that can be inhibited by N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists. This study examines the effect of unilateral hind paw inflammation on N-methyl-D-aspartate R1 messenger RNA and [125I]dizocilpine maleate binding in the L4-L5 segments of the lumbar spinal cord of rats. Spinal cords were examined at 7.5 h, three, seven and 20 days after injection of the left hind paw with 120 microliters of complete Freund's adjuvant. N-methyl-D-aspartate R1 messenger RNA, as measured with in situ hybridization, was observed to decrease bilaterally in laminae I, II and X of the lumbar spinal cord. This decrease was evident in laminae I and II at 7.5 h and three days after hind paw injection. In lamina X, a postinjection decrease in hybridization signal was observed at 7.5 h and seven days. A bilateral decrease in [125I]dizocilpine maleate binding was observed in laminae I and II at three, seven and 20 days after paw injection. This observed decrease in binding at the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor suggests a compensatory mechanism by which N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated nociceptive events may be modulated.
Interleukin-1 is known to exert pleiotropic effects in host defence mechanisms and in inflammation. Chronic pain, inflammation and interleukin-1 beta enhance the production of substance P. Recently, axonal transport of opiate receptors was found to increase in rat sciatic nerves in the model of Freund's adjuvant-induced arthritis. Here we show that a single intraplantar injection of interleukin-1 beta is able to enhance the axonal transport of mu and kappa opiate receptors and substance P. Indeed, their accumulation was markedly increased in the proximal part of ligated sciatic nerves, but only in the paw injected with interleukin-1. The time course revealed a delayed onset and, more importantly, a long-term increase lasting at least six days, which is in contrast with the short-term pyrogenic effect of interleukin-1. Pretreatment of rats with capsaicin or administration of dexamethasone completely prevented the interleukin-1 beta effect. The present results suggest that interleukin-1 beta may serve as a mediator to sensitize nociceptors in chronic inflammation and possibly in hyperalgesia through long-term changes in neuronal plasticity.
Adult mice transgenic for the human form of neurofilament light protein display abnormal perikaryal immunoreactivity for this protein in many regions of the CNS and notably the thalamus. To determine the sequence of development of these anomalies, we have compared normal and transgenic mice of different postnatal ages (P0-P70), using immunocytochemistry with primary antibodies recognizing both murine and human sequence of neurofilament light protein (NR-4) or the human form only (DP5-1-12). In normal mouse brainstem, several nuclei displayed immunoreactive perikarya at P0. The number of these perikarya culminated at P10, followed by a general decrease, some nuclei having lost all perikaryal immunostaining in adults. In transgenic mouse brainstem, the distribution of perikaryal immunoreactivity already resembled at P0 that of P10 in normal mouse, and remained unchanged in adults. Differences between normal and transgenic mice were even more pronounced in the forebrain. Some nuclei of normal mouse basal forebrain that were weakly immunopositive at P10 or P20, but no longer in adults, were already labeled at P0 and remained so or became more intense at later stages in transgenic mice. In the thalamus of normal mouse, perikaryal labeling was faint, confined to a few nuclei, and detected only transiently at P10, whereas in transgenics, it was already observed in some nuclei at P0, increased in intensity and extended to other nuclei at P10, and persisted thereafter. Strongly immunoreactive, inflated perikarya with excentric nuclei were prominent in these thalamic nuclei at P20, and even larger in size at P70. In the cerebral cortex of normal mice, layers II-III and layer V of many cytoarchitectonic areas showed immunoreactive cell bodies at P10, a distribution which became gradually restricted to the parietal cortex in adults. In transgenic mice, immunopositive cortical cell bodies were first detected at P3, filled layers II-III of numerous cortical areas at P10, and then rapidly decreased in number to approach the adult pattern at P20. In the cortex as well as thalamus of P10 transgenic mice, differences between the patterns of cellular staining with clones NR4 and DP5-1-12 antibodies indicated that both the murine and human proteins were accumulated in these neurons. Thus, neurofilament light protein accumulation in the transgenic mouse brain generally involved neurons displaying perikaryal immunoreactivity for the protein at least at some point during normal postnatal development.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Polyclonal antibodies raised against rat syntaxin-1B and an affinity-purified fraction have been used to study the functional role of this protein in transmitter release from Aplysia neurons. In a ganglionic protein extract, this fraction recognized a 37,000 molecular weight protein which therefore might be the Aplysia homologue of rat brain syntaxin-1B. Immunoglobulins were injected in the presynaptic cell of an identified cholinergic synapse of the buccal ganglion of Aplysia californica. This treatment decreased the postsynaptic response due to a reduction of the number of quanta released in relation to a decline of presynaptic Ca2+ current. When antibodies were applied extracellularly, transmitter release also decreased. In contrast to intracellular injection, this reduction was not accompanied by a decrease of the Ca2+ current but by an increase of presynaptic outward current. When injected in the presynaptic neuron, syntaxin complementary RNA also depressed Ca2+ current and transmission. This work provides evidence that Aplysia neurons express a syntaxin-like protein which is involved in the control of the presynaptic Ca2+ influx triggering acetylcholine release from terminals. This protein appears to have an extracellular segment which might interact with outward current.
We have addressed the role of presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors in the control of glutamate release from cerebrocortical nerve terminals. The metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid enhances the release evoked by a submaximal depolarization in the presence of low concentrations of arachidonic acid and in a staurosporine-sensitive manner. In contrast, (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid and L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate inhibit the release evoked by a maximal depolarization, in the absence of arachidonic acid and by a staurosporine-insensitive mechanism. Interestingly, the effects of the metabotropic glutamate receptors that inhibit glutamate release are only observed in the nerve terminals from young rats (one to three weeks), while the facilitatory effects are better seen in latter developmental stages (three to four weeks) and adult (two to three months) rats, coinciding with the development of the maximal capacity of glutamate uptake. These results indicate the existence of important developmental changes in the presynaptic control of glutamate release.
The functions of the D4 receptor, a newly cloned D2-like receptor, as well as the identity of cells expressing it, are still poorly defined. Using quantitative polymerase chain reaction we detected the messenger RNA of the D4, but not other D2-like receptor, in cultured granule cells from neonatal rat cerebellum. In these neurons, dopamine reduced high-voltage-activated calcium current, with a pharmacology corresponding to that of the D4 receptor. The response declined from one to three days, when calcium currents were mostly sensitive to nifedipine, to 15 days, when nifedipine-insensitive calcium currents were also present and D4 receptor messenger RNA had declined. The dopamine response was abolished after pretreatment of the cells by pertussis toxin, was potentiated and made irreversible by infusion of guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) but persisted in the presence of cyclic AMP and isobutylmethylxanthine. These results indicate the presence in the neonatal cerebellum of a functional D4 receptor inhibiting an L-type calcium current, an action involving a Gi/Go protein but independent from adenylate cyclase inhibition.
Previous studies have shown that the septohippocampal projection develops in vitro. It remained unclear, however, whether this in vitro projection resulted from axonal regeneration of septal neurons transected by the culture preparation, or from a priori outgrowth of undamaged cells that had not yet sent an axonal process to the hippocampus at the time of tissue preparation. Here we have prepared slice cultures of identified septohippocampal projection neurons that were retrogradely labeled by hippocampal tracer injection prior to slice preparation. We demonstrate that these identified projection neurons survive axotomy caused by culture preparation, are able to regrow an axonal process in vitro, and innervate a co-cultured hippocampal slice.
In order to know the relationship of ubiquitin and axonal degeneration in the central nervous system (CNS) of the gracile axonal dystrophy (GAD) mutant mouse, the immunocytochemical study was performed in the spinal cord, medulla oblongata and brain of normal and GAD mice at 4, 9, 18 and 32 weeks of age. The polyclonal antibodies of ubiquitin were used for this study. The results were as follows: Many ubiquitin-positive dot-like structures (DS) were first observed in the gracile nucleus affected primarily with axonal degeneration. They extended to the gracile fasciculus on the dorsal part of spinal cord in accordance with the dying-back type degeneration. The second-order neurons at Clarke's nucleus were also affected slightly later stages and revealed ubiquitin-positive DS along the posterior spinocerebellar tract and the white matter of certain lobes of cerebellum. In 18th week, the transneuronal degeneration started from the distal axonal ends of the primary sensory neurons came up to the some parts of cortical neurons through the secondary neurons in the thalamus. The ubiquitin-positive DS were detected on the ventral surface of the medulla oblongata and increased progressively in number along the corticospinal (pyramidal) tract of spinal cord which consists of the descending fibers derived from the cortical neurons. These findings suggest that abnormal proteins in the degenerating axons were ubiquitinated rapidly before they accumulated in the preterminal axons whose neuron stems are far away from the place, and that GAD mouse would be a useful animal model to know the mechanism(s) of the naturally occurring transneuronal degeneration from the distal axonal ends of both ascending sensory neurons and descending pyramidal neurons in the CNS.
A case of progressive cauda equina syndrome secondary to ossification of the lumbosacral dura arachnoid following an incomplete spinal cord injury is presented. The etiology of the ossification is unclear and may be secondary to heterotopic osseous metaplasia such as occurs in other sites in spinal cord injured patients.
REM sleep deprivation (RSD) of rats results in facilitation of dopaminergic behavior and an increase in striatal D2 receptor density. To determine whether RSD results in changes in D2 receptor in other brain regions, receptor affinity (Kd) and density (Bmax) were measured in the anteromediofrontal (AM), cingulate (CN), and sulcal cortex (SL) in four groups of rats: 1), RSD96 group (RSD for 96 h; small pedestal/water tank method), 2) RSD24 group (large pedestals for 72 h then small pedestals for 24 h), 3) tank control group (TC; large pedestals for 96 h), and 4) cage control group. In separate groups, ambulation was recorded for 30 min following treatments. Group RSD96 showed an increase in activity compared to TC, and TC was increased compared to CC (p &lt; 0.05 for all). In group RSD24, the AM showed an increase in Bmax and Kd (p &lt; 0.05), but there were no effects by RSD96. In the CN, Bmax and Kd were decreased by RSD96 (p &lt; 0.05) but not RSD24. In the SL, Bmax was increased by RSD96, but not RSD24, whereas Kd was increased in both RSD groups (p &lt; 0.05).
A behavioral paradigm was explored to assess the motivational aspects involved in drug-taking behavior during initiation of drug self-administration. In separate saline-controlled experiments, naive animals were allowed to self-administer either cocaine or heroin (0.16 and 0.32 mg/kg per infusion) during five consecutive daily 3-h sessions by pressing one of two levers present in the test cage. During 15 min preceding the last four self-administration sessions, the animals had access to the levers but pressing the reinforcement lever did not result in a drug infusion. The animals properly self-administered both doses of cocaine and heroin, because the amount of self-infusions was higher than their saline control groups. Animals self-administering the high dose of cocaine and either dose of heroin performed lever-press behavior during the preceding period in a similar fashion as during the self-administration sessions, suggesting that this behavior during the preceding period was performed in the absence of the primary reinforcer, this behavior likely reflects the motivational state of animals to obtain the drug reinforcer, and thus may serve as a measure of the motivational aspects involved in the initiation of drug self-administration.
Research in this laboratory showed that caffeine (4 mg/kg) delays habituation of the acoustic startle reflex in humans. The present study examined the effects of 2- and 6-mg/kg doses of caffeine on acoustic startle habituation in moderate-high and low caffeine users. Eyeblink responses to 30 trials of 85-dB noise stimuli were measured beginning 30 min after oral ingestion of either placebo or 2 or 6 mg/kg of caffeine. The 2-mg/kg dose of caffeine delayed startle habituation in both moderate-high and low caffeine users. The 6-mg/kg dose produced no differential effects on startle responding from placebo. In moderate-high users, following habituation, startle responding was smaller in the placebo condition compared to both caffeine conditions. In low users there were no differences in posthabituation responding between doses, suggesting that this dose effect is dependent on a history of chronic caffeine usage.
The involvement of opioid system on the learned helplessness model of depression was investigated. Animals preexposed to inescapable shocks were treated with either Met-enkephalin, Leu-enkephalin, morphine, imipramine, naloxone, RB 38A (a mixed inhibitor of enkephalin degrading enzymes), or RB 38B (a selective inhibitor of neutral endopeptidase EC 3.4.24.11). Stimulation of opioid system by either opioid agonists or enkephalin catabolism inhibitors reversed the escape deficit induced by shock pretreatment. In contrast, administration of naloxone potentiated the effect of inescapable shocks. Imipramine reduced the number of escape failures in this test, and this effect was antagonized by naloxone. These results point to the involvement of the endogenous opioid system in this model of depression.
Groups of adult, male, Wistar rats were administered phenytoin (DPH) at 5, 12.5, 25, 50, or 75 mg/kg i.p. for 21 days. The learning and memory of these rats were assessed using the T-maze and passive avoidance tests. The plasma DPH levels, acetylcholine esterase (AChE) activity in different brain regions, and the levels of monoamines in the hippocampus were measured. The results indicate that DPH below the therapeutic plasma level did not significantly impair learning and memory. Correspondingly, no changes were noted in the brain 5-HT or AChE activity. However, DPH, at therapeutic plasma concentrations (i.e., 10.5 micrograms/ml in the dosage range of 50 and 75 mg/kg, respectively), significantly impaired learning and memory in rats. The impaired learning and memory functions were associated with increased 5-HT levels and decreased AChE activity in the hippocampus. With a dose of 75 mg/kg DPH, there was a reduction in the AChE activity in the striatum, in addition to hippocampus. It is conjectured that the neurochemical changes brought about by DPH at therapeutic plasma levels may account for the impairment of learning, memory, and cognitive functions in epilepsy.
Both in vivo and in vitro studies have shown that Ro 15-4513 can antagonize many of the pharmacologic actions of ethanol. In contrast to many benzodiazepine receptor (BzR) ligands, Ro 15-4513 binds with high affinity to a novel GABAA receptor subtype, referred to as &quot;diazepam-insensitive&quot; (DI). This study examined the contribution of DI GABAA receptors to the modulation of ethanol-induced sleep time by Ro 15-4513 and related imidazobenzodiazepines [e.g., Ro 19-4603, Ro 16-6028, and ZG-63 (t-butyl-8-chloro-5,6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-imidazo[1,5,a] [1,4]benzodiazepine-3-carboxylate)] that possess high affinities for this GABAA receptor subtype. Ro 15-4513 (0.6-5 mg/kg) significantly reduced ethanol (3.5 g/kg, i.p.) sleep time in mice (p &lt; 0.001, analysis of variance). This effect was not blocked by BzR antagonists ZK 93426 (5 mg/kg) and Ro 14-7437 (5 mg/kg), which possess low affinities for DI but bind with high affinities to other &quot;diazepam-sensitive&quot; (DS) GABAA receptor isoforms. Although Ro 19-4603 (2.5 mg/kg) also reduced ethanol sleep time (p &lt; 0.01), this effect was attenuated by coadministration of ZK 93426 (2.5 mg/kg). Ro 16-6028 (2.5 mg/kg) prolonged (p &lt; 0.01) ethanol sleep time. However, in the presence of either Ro 19-7437 (5 mg/kg) or ZK 93426 (2.5 mg/kg) ethanol-induced sleep time was reduced to values approaching those obtained with ethanol in the presence of Ro 15-4513. A low dose (2.5 mg/kg) of ZG-63 did not significantly affect alcohol sleep time. However, in the presence of ZK 93426, ZG-63 increased sleep time (p &lt; 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

1. The authors have determined the effect of TJS-010, a new prescription of oriental medicine, on the locomotor activity in rats. 2. Tetrabenazine(TBZ) decreased the spontaneous locomotion in rats, and attenuated the contents of amines and increased their metabolism in various regions in rat brain. 3. TJS-010 inhibited the locomotor suppression induced by TBZ: however, neither amine contents nor their metabolism was not altered, which suggested that TJS-010 postsynaptically modulated the transmission or transduction. 4. Imipramine also inhibited the decrease in locomotion induced by TBZ. 5. These results suggest a possibility that TJS-010 has an antidepressive effect.
This study used classical conditioning as a measure of nondeclarative learning and compared it with verbal learning as a declarative measure. Eighty participants were tested using 1 of 2 paradigms (400-ms and 750-ms delay) for eyeblink classical conditioning (EBCC) and the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT). Large age differences were observed in the nondeclarative EBCC task, even in the 750-ms paradigm, which is more optimal for older adults. Age differences in the nondeclarative EBCC task were larger in the 400-ms paradigm and equal in the 750-ms paradigm to the magnitude of age differences in the declarative CVLT task. Partial correlations (removing the variance that was due to age) showed no relation between performance on the nondeclarative and declarative tasks. The results contradict the common assumption that, in the same participants, nondeclarative learning and memory are more resistant to the effects of aging than are declarative learning and memory and suggest that nondeclarative learning and memory are not unitary.
Social recognition has been inferred from a decline in olfactory investigation of conspecific intruders during repeated or protracted confrontation with a resident rat. A stimulus-response relationship defined by lack of response remains somewhat ambiguous. Since it is likely that behavior continues to be emitted by the resident animal, how behavior reorganizes as the resident becomes familiar with an intruder represents an important issue in the characterization of recognition. We examined the decline in olfactory investigation of ovariectomized females by adult male mice. The duration and frequency of olfactory investigation was measured during four 1 minute confrontations with 10-min intertrial intervals (Training trials). If the same female was presented in each trial, investigation declined to less than 50% of initial levels. Aggressive behavior gradually increased with repeated trials. No decline in investigation or increased aggression was measured when females were changed in each trial. Administration of doses of scopolamine (0.16-1.0 mg/kg, IP) blocked decrements in olfactory investigation in repeated confrontations and significantly reduced aggression. Co-administration of heptylphysostigmine (0.32-5.0 mg/kg, IP) reversed scopolamine's effects on olfactory investigation but not aggression. Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors heptylphysostigmine, galanthamine (0.63-2.5 mg/kg, IP) and tacrine (0.63-10.0 mg/kg, IP) all enhanced the rate of decrement of olfactory investigation when administered alone, but had differential effects on aggression. The decline in investigation corresponds to criteria for habituation. Increased responsivity expressed as aggression indicates recognition may also be characterized as a change in behavioral strategy dependent on the sexual and social status of the stimulus animal. Pharmacological data support a role for acetylcholine release in the development of social recognition as an olfactory memory, or through modulation of olfactory perception.
This study explored whether benzodiazepines selectively affect aspects of attention and/or visual information processing, as they do memory. A cued visual-search paradigm was employed, using normal volunteers and a single dose of triazolam. This paradigm provided for a detailed examination of two aspects of visual attention and information processing: 1) controlled versus automatic attention allocation (via central and peripheral cues), and 2) the extent to which processing an item in a non-cued location affects performance (via cue-validity). Triazolam, compared to placebo, significantly increased response time, and Drug Condition interacted with Cue-Validity but not Cue-Type. Based on these data, we argue that triazolam does not affect attention allocation but does affect attentional disengagement and/or attention switching mechanisms.
The effects of the CCKB receptor antagonists L-365,260, CI-988 and L-740,093, a new compound with improved bioavailability and CNS penetration, were assessed for anxiolytic-like effects in three rat anxiolytic screens sensitive to benzodiazepines, the elevated plus maze (EPM), conditioned suppression of drinking (CSD) and conditioned emotional response (CER) tests. In the EPM, L-740,093 (0.1-1.0 mg/kg), L-365,260 (0.00001-10.0 mg/kg), and CI-988 (0.01-1.0 mg/kg) did not increase the time spent on the open arms of the maze or the number of entries onto the open arms. In contrast, the benzodiazepine receptor partial agonist, bretazenil (0.3-10.0 mg/kg), significantly increased both the time spent on the open arms and the number of open arm entries. In the CSD and the CER tests, L-740,093 (0.1-1.0 mg/kg) L-365,260 (0.0001-0.1 mg/kg) and CI-988 (0.01-10.0 mg/kg) failed to increase suppression ratios compared to the vehicle-treated control rats, whereas, the benzodiazepine receptor partial agonist FG 8205 (10.0 mg/kg) (CSD) and bretazenil (0.3-3.0 mg/kg) (CER) both significantly increased suppression ratios compared to vehicle-treated control rats. In addition, L-365,260 (1.0-50.0 mg/kg), CI-988 (0.1-10.0 mg/kg) and diazepam (0.1-1.0 mg/kg) were assessed in a squirrel monkey conflict procedure. Although diazepam significantly increased suppressed lever pressing rates, L-365,260 and CI-988 were without effect. The present findings provide little support for the hypothesis that CCKB receptor antagonists have anti-anxiety effects in animals.
Apoptosis is a process of cell death characterized by distinctive morphological changes and fragmentation of cellular DNA. Using video imaging and color thresholding techniques, we objectively quantitated the number of cultured CD4+ T-lymphoblastoid cells (HUT78 cells, RH9 subclone) displaying morphological signs of apoptosis before and after exposure to gamma-irradiation. The numbers of apoptotic cells measured by objective video imaging techniques were compared to numbers of apoptotic cells measured in the same samples by sensitive apoptotic assays that quantitate DNA fragmentation. DNA fragmentation assays gave consistently higher values compared with the video imaging assays that measured morphological changes associated with apoptosis. These results suggest that substantial DNA fragmentation can precede or occur in the absence of the morphological changes which are associated with apoptosis in gamma-irradiated RH9 cells.
We used a paradigm involving monozygotic (MZ) twin pairs discordant for schizophrenia (n = 20) and concordant for schizophrenia (n = 8), as well as normal MZ twin pairs (n = 7) in order to study cognitive measures of genetic risk in schizophrenia. A comparison between the unaffected twins from the discordant sample and the normal twins indicated subtle attenuations in some aspects of memory and executive functioning in the unaffected group and thus provided evidence for cognitive markers of a genetic component in schizophrenia. A comparison of the affected twins from the discordant pairs and the concordant twins yielded virtually no differences, suggesting that a distinction between familial and sporadic cases is not valid in this sample. Large differences between unaffected and affected members of discordant pairs on a wide variety of variables, including IQ, attention, memory, and executive function, highlighted the magnitude of disease-specific factors.
Recent neuroimaging studies of patients with schizophrenia have suggested structural and functional abnormalities of mesial temporal lobe structures. We compared the intelligence and memory test performance of 70 patients with schizophrenia and 72 patients with focal, lateralized temporal lobe epilepsy (30 left, 42 right temporal lobe) in order to examine the adequacy of a temporal lobe model of schizophrenic cognitive deficits. The groups did not differ in age, education, or Full Scale IQ. The right temporal lobe group had better overall memory performance than either the left temporal or schizophrenic patients. Unlike the schizophrenic patients, the memory impairment of the left temporal group was most evident with verbal materials and was amplified by delayed testing. Both epilepsy groups had better visual memory than the schizophrenic group. The clear differences in performance pattern between groups suggests that lateralized temporal lobe dysfunction does not by itself provide an adequate model of schizophrenic cognitive impairment.
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a binary treatment modality suitable for various malignant tumors including brain. It involves the selective uptake of a photosensitizer into tumor followed by intraoperative irradiation of the tumor with light of an appropriate wavelength to cause activation of the sensitizer and subsequent selective tumor destruction. PDT has been extensively investigated in laboratory studies and has been used in clinical trials to treat a variety of brain tumors, particularly gliomas. The main advantage of PDT lies in its ability to select out infiltrating tumor cells that are responsible for local tumor recurrence. The therapy has been shown to be safe clinically but adequate trials have yet to be undertaken to prove its efficacy and much work remains to be done to optimize treatment. The biological basis, laboratory studies, and clinical trials involving PDT in the treatment of cerebral tumors are discussed.

A positron emission tomograph (PET) was used to image D2 dopamine receptor function in rat striata and to obtain regional time-radioactivity curves from individual rat brains following i.v. injection of carbon-11-labelled raclopride. Despite the limited resolution of the camera, together with associated spillover and partial volume effects, the kinetic data obtained from striata were such that specific binding of the radioligand could be quantified unilaterally, using a reference tissue compartmental model, with cerebellum data as an indirect input function. With the exception that the rat is anaesthetised, the experimental system is analogous to the acquisition and collection of clinical PET data and, by using animal models of disease, can be used to aid the interpretation of clinical studies. Using 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioning of the substantia nigra pars compacta to produce a rat hemiparkinsonian model, the present results confirm that deafferentation causes a supersensitivity of post-synaptic D2 dopamine receptors. Saturation studies indicated that the measured 23% increase in [11C]raclopride binding potential reflected a change in receptor affinity. Modulation of extracellular dopamine concentration, monitored by in vivo microdialysis, demonstrated that the increased binding was unlikely to be due to a reduction in receptor occupancy by endogenous dopamine. Acute administration of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa) also caused an increase in [11C]raclopride binding potential, confirming the suggestion that L-dopa plays a more complex role than that of dopamine precursor in the nigrostriatal pathway.
The endogenous opioid peptide [Met5]-enkephalin is a tonically active opioid growth factor (OGF) with an inhibitory action on DNA synthesis in the developing rat retina. In this study, the ontogeny of the spatial and temporal expression of OGF and its binding activity was examined. OGF-like immunoreactivity was detected in the retina at gestation day (E) 20, but not at E18, and was localized to ganglion cell and neuroblast layers; immunochemical reaction was no longer seen in the retina by postnatal day 6. Native OGF was further identified and characterized by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) studies and immunodot assays, which revealed that [Met5]-enkephalin was present in the neonatal, but not adult, rat retina. OGF binding activity was detected as early as E18 using [125I]-[Met5]-enkephalin and in vitro receptor autoradiography. Little OGF binding activity was noted for prenatal retinas, but appreciable activity was observed from birth to postnatal day 4; no OGF binding could be detected after postnatal day 5 or in the adult. These results reveal the transient appearance of the OGF, [Met5]-enkephalin, and its receptor binding activity in the developing mammalian retina, and show that their ontogeny coincides with the timetable of DNA synthesis of retinal neuroblasts.
The bresiliid shrimp, Rimicaris exoculata, lives in large masses on the sides of hydrothermal vent chimneys at two sites on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Although essentially no daylight penetrates to depths of 3500 m, very dim light is emitted from the hydrothermal vents themselves. To exploit this light, R. exoculata has evolved a modified compound eye on its dorsal surface that occupies about 0.5% of the animal's body volume. The eye's morphology suggests that it is extremely sensitive to light. The cornea of the dorsal eye is smooth with no dioptric apparatus. The retina consists of two wing-shaped lobes that are fused across the midline anteriorly. The rhabdomeral segments of the 7000 ommatidia form a compact layer of photosensitive membrane with an entrance aperture of more than 26 mm2. Within this layer, the volume density of rhabdom is more than 70%. Below the rhabdomeral segments, a thick layer of white diffusing cells scatters light upward into the photoreceptors. The arhabdomeral segments of the five to seven photoreceptors of each ommatidium are mere strands of cytoplasm that expand to accommodate the photoreceptor nuclei. The rhabdom is comprised of well-organized arrays of microvilli, each with a cytoskeletal core. The rhabdomeral segment cytoplasm contains mitochondria, but little else. The perikaryon contains a band of mitochondria, but has only small amounts of endoplasmic reticulum. There is no ultrastructural indication of photosensitive membrane cycling in these photoreceptors. Vestigial screening pigment cells and screening pigment granules within the photoreceptors are both restricted to the inner surface of the layer of the white diffusing cells. Below the retina, photoreceptor axons converge in a fanshaped array to enter the dorsal surface of the brain. The eye's size and structure are consistent with a role for vision in shrimp living at abyssal hydrothermal vents.
The AII amacrine cell of mammalian retina collects signals from several hundred rods and is hypothesized to transmit quantal &quot;single-photon&quot; signals at scotopic (starlight) intensities. One problem for this theory is that the quantal signal from one rod when summed with noise from neighboring rods would be lost if some mechanism did not exist for removing the noise. Several features of the AII might together accomplish such a noise removal operation: The AII is interconnected into a syncytial network by gap junctions, suggesting a noise-averaging function, and a quantal signal from one rod appears in five AII cells due to anatomical divergence. Furthermore, the AII contains voltage-gated Na+ and K+ channels and fires slow action potentials in vitro, suggesting that it could selectively amplify quantal photon signals embedded in uncorrelated noise. To test this hypothesis, we simulated a square array of AII somas (Rm = 25,000 Ohm-cm2) interconnected by gap junctions using a compartmental model. Simulated noisy inputs to the AII produced noise (3.5 mV) uncorrelated between adjacent cells, and a gap junction conductance of 200 pS reduced the noise by a factor of 2.5, consistent with theory. Voltage-gated Na+ and K+ channels (Na+: 4 nS, K+: 0.4 nS) produced slow action potentials similar to those found in vitro in the presence of noise. For a narrow range of Na+ and coupling conductance, quantal photon events (approximately 5-10 mV) were amplified nonlinearly by subthreshold regenerative events in the presence of noise. A lower coupling conductance produced spurious action potentials, and a greater conductance reduced amplification. Since the presence of noise in the weakly coupled circuit readily initiates action potentials that tend to spread throughout the AII network, we speculate that this tendency might be controlled in a negative feedback loop by up-modulating coupling or other synaptic conductances in response to spiking activity.
The experiments reported here address the issue of whether the pathways which extract motion from first-order and second-order spatial patterns remain separate or whether they combine at some higher level in the motion system to form a single pathway. The question is addressed by investigating the interaction of first-order and second-order stimuli in the processing of a global-motion stimulus [a variant of the task introduced by Newsome &amp; Pare (Journal of Neuroscience, 8, 2201-2211, (1988)]. Two experimental procedures were used. The first consisted of determining the effect of the addition of dots of one type (e.g. first order) undergoing purely random motion on the ability to extract the global-motion signal carried by dots of the other type (e.g. second order). The second experimental procedure consisted of determining the effect of maintaining a coherent-motion signal in one type of dot, moving in the opposite direction to the global-motion direction, on the ability to extract the global-motion signal carried by dots of the other type. The dots were matched for their effectiveness in producing a global motion percept and the results for both procedures were the same. First-order dots impaired the ability to extract second-order global-motion, and second-order dots had no effect on first-order global-motion extraction. It is argued that the sensitivity of the second-order global-motion system to the first-order dots is due to the ability of the second-order local-motion detectors to detect these dots. The present results are thus interpreted as indicating that the first-order and second-order motion pathways remain separate up to and including the level in the motion system at which global-motion signals are extracted.
Neurones tuned for second-order stimuli--those which have edges defined by properties other than luminance and colour--have been frequently observed in prestriate cortex and in area V2 there are neurones which explicitly and unambiguously signal the orientation of purely subjective contours, i.e. contours with no Fourier components at the orientation of the perceived edge [von der Heydt, R. &amp; Peterhans, (1989) Journal of Neuroscience, 9, 1731-1748]. No neurones in area V1 showed similar tuning characteristics. In addition, it has been demonstrated that like real contours, purely subjective test contours are subject to tilt aftereffects following prolonged viewing of an adapting stimulus. whether that stimulus is real or subjective [Paradiso, M. A., Shimojo, S. &amp; Nakayama, K. (1989) Vision Research, 29, 1205-1213]. This result supports the assertion that the cortical processes responsible for real contour perception are also those giving rise to subjective contour perception. The data reported here further examined this hypothesis. Four experiments show that purely subjective contours exhibit both direct and indirect tilt aftereffects and tilt illusions like those observed with real contours. Further, they provide evidence that direct and indirect subjective contour effects, like direct and indirect real contour effects, arise via the operation of two mechanisms: a low level process, possibly lateral inhibition between orientation channels, and a second &quot;higher-order&quot; process. The data suggest that processing of orientation information beyond the striate cortex is similar to that which occurs in area V1 and the data are consistent with models of contour processing which assume that all perceived contours, both real and subjective, arise from a common mechanism.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) is known and named for its essential role in vertebrate reproduction. Release of this decapeptide from neurons in the hypothalamus controls pituitary gonadotropin levels which, in turn, regulate gonadal state. The importance of GnRH is underscored by its widespread expression and conservation across vertebrate taxa: five amino acids are invariant in all nine known forms, whereas two others show only conservative changes. In most eutherian mammals, only one form, expressed in the hypothalamus, is thought to exist, although in a recent report, antibody staining in developing primates suggests an additional form. In contrast, multiple GnRH forms and expression loci have been reported in many non-mammalian vertebrates. However, evidence based on immunological discrimination does not always agree with analysis of gene expression, since GnRH forms encoded by different genes may not be reliably distinguished by antibodies. Here we report the expression of three distinct GnRH genes in a teleost fish brain, including the sequence encoding a novel GnRH preprohormone. Using in situ hybridization, we show that this form is found only in neurons that project to the pituitary and exhibit changes in soma size depending on social and reproductive state. The other two GnRH genes are expressed in other, distinct cell populations. All three genes share the motif of encoding a polypeptide consisting of GnRH and a GnRH-associated peptide. Whereas the GnRH moiety is highly conserved, the GnRH-associated peptides are not, reflecting differential selective pressure on different parts of the gene. GnRH forms expressed in nonhypothalamic regions may serve to coordinate reproductive activities of the animal.
The recently cloned, distant member of the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) family, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), has potent trophic actions on fetal mesencephalic dopamine neurons. GDNF also has protective and restorative activity on adult mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons and potently protects motoneurons from axotomy-induced cell death. However, evidence for a role for endogenous GDNF as a target-derived trophic factor in adult midbrain dopaminergic circuits requires documentation of specific transport from the sites of synthesis in the target areas to the nerve cell bodies themselves. Here, we demonstrate that GDNF is retrogradely transported by mesencephalic dopamine neurons of the nigrostriatal pathway. The pattern of retrograde transport following intrastriatal injections indicates that there may be subpopulations of neurons that are GDNF responsive. Retrograde axonal transport of biologically active 125I-labeled GDNF was inhibited by an excess of unlabeled GDNF but not by an excess of cytochrome c. Specificity was further documented by demonstrating that another TGF-beta family member, TGF-beta 1, did not appear to affect retrograde transport. Retrograde transport was also demonstrated by immunohistochemistry by using intrastriatal injections of unlabeled GDNF. GDNF immunoreactivity was found specifically in dopamine nerve cell bodies of the substantia nigra pars compacta distributed in granules in the soma and proximal dendrites. Our data implicate a specific receptor-mediated uptake mechanism operating in the adult. Taken together, the present findings suggest that GDNF acts endogenously as a target-derived physiological survival/maintenance factor for dopaminergic neurons.
Previously we reported that the rat B-50/GAP-43 gene contains two promoters (P1 and P2). This study describes the contribution of these two promoters to the mRNA population in several paradigms leading to an altered B-50 mRNA expression. In 8-day-old rat brain we found that P1 transcripts (1676 +/- 50 nt) account for 5% and P2 transcripts (1462 +/- 46 nt) for 95% of the B-50 mRNAs. The expression of P1 and P2 derived transcripts is high at postnatal day 8 and the ratio between the amount of transcripts derived from P1 and P2 did not change during (embryonal and postnatal) development or aging. After peripheral nerve crush or transection B-50 mRNA expression in induced in the distal nerve stump. The amount of transcript in the nerve stump distal of the lesion derived from both P1 and P2 was increased and the ratio between P1 and P2 transcripts was not altered. To determine whether both P1 and P2 transcripts are translated, a polyribosomal profile from 8-day-old rat brain was generated. Northern analysis showed that both transcripts were associated with approximately four ribosomes. Since no change could be found in the activity in either of the two promoters under the different circumstances tested, we conclude that the activity of the two rat B-50 gene promoters is regulated by a similar mechanism.
Neurons require a mechanism to transmit stable signals over the large distance from the nerve growth cone or terminal to the cell body, in order that information from the target tissue can be relayed to the cell body where it is required. Nerve growth factor (NGF), a target-derived neurotrophic factor, is thought to signal over this distance by receptor mediated internalization of NGF, followed by retrograde axonal transport of the NGF-receptor complex. In this paper we show, by immunohistochemistry of rat sciatic nerve, accumulation of phosphotyrosine immunoreactivity only on the distal side of a nerve crush, suggesting axonal transport of tyrosine kinases and/or tyrosine phosphorylated proteins primarily in a retrograde direction. Furthermore, we also show retrograde axonal transport of phosphoinositide 3-kinase, ERK, MEK and MEK kinase, of which all but MEK kinase are known to be activated downstream of tyrosine receptor kinase activation. The retrograde transport of these proteins suggests that they may be involved in transmission of signals along the axon, relaying neurotrophic factor receptor activation at the nerve terminal to the nerve cell body.
To investigate whether adenosine A2a agonists modulate dopamine D2 receptor binding in vivo, we have analyzed the effects of intraperitoneally administered 2-[p-(carboxyethyl)phenylethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosin e (CGS 21680) on the ability of dopamine to compete at [125I]iodosulpride (0.25 nM) binding sites in filter-wiped cryostat sections of the rat forebrain and on [3H]L-(-)-N-propylnorapomorphine ([3H]NPA) binding (1 nM) using quantitative receptor autoradiography. CGS 21680 (1-3 mg/kg) decreased the IC50 value of dopamine on [125I]iodosulpride binding, and the decrease at 1 mg/kg was blocked by the A2 antagonist 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX; 5 mg/kg). The decrease in the IC50 value of dopamine was due to a decrease in the KL value whereas the KH value and the proportion of high-affinity binding sites were unaffected. The binding of [3H]NPA was significantly increased in the rostral and caudal parts of the caudate-putamen and in the rostral part of the olfactory tubercle, whereas no change could be demonstrated in the nucleus accumbens and in the caudal part of the olfactory tubercle. These results indicate that stimulation of A2a receptors in vivo causes alterations in the binding characteristics of D2 receptors in certain regions of the basal ganglia.
A combined immunohistochemical and retrograde tracing approach was used to characterize the catecholaminergic innervation of the optic tectum (TeO), the major target of retinal projections in many avian species. Giemsa counterstaining was employed to determine precisely the laminar localization of immunoreactive fibers and presumptive terminals. The TeO of the pigeon is densely innervated by fibers immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), which are most heavily distributed to the superficial layers of its dorsal and anterior portions. Within the dorsal-anterior tectum, TH-immunoreactive processes are particularly dense in retinorecipient layers 4 and 7 and in layer 5a. As in the mammalian superior colliculus, the bulk of the catecholaminergic innervation of the pigeon TeO reflects inputs, presumably noradrenergic, originating in the locus coeruleus and nucleus subcoeruleus. However, the catecholaminergic innervation of the pigeon TeO shows several features distinct from those reported for the mammalian superior colliculus. These include an input from a pretectal TH-positive cell group unknown in mammals and the presence of residual TH immunoreactivity after administration of the noradrenergic neurotoxin DSP-4. Moreover, the pattern of TH-immunoreactive fibers in pigeon TeO indicates more laminar and regional specialization within this structure than has been reported for the catecholaminergic innervation of the superior colliculus in mammals.
Neurons in the hippocampal dentate gyrus are extensively reinnervated following the destruction of their normal inputs from the ipsilateral entorhinal cortex (EC). The present study evaluates gene expression by dentate granule neurons and the neurons giving rise to the sprouting connections during the period of synapse growth. Adult male rats were prepared for in situ hybridization at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 20, and 30 days following unilateral EC lesions. Sections were hybridized using 35S-labeled cRNA probes for mRNAs that encode proteins thought to be important for neuronal structure and/or synapse function, including (1) mRNAs that are normally present in dendrites--the mRNAs for the high molecular weight microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and the alpha-subunit of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMII kinase), (2) mRNAs that are upregulated in neurons that are regenerating their axons (T alpha 1 tubulin and F1/GAP43) and (3) mRNAs for proteins that are the principal constituents of neurofilaments and microtubules (the low molecular weight neurofilament protein NF68 and beta-tubulin). Although there were small changes in the levels of labeling for the mRNAs that are normally present in dendrites, there were no dramatic increases in the levels of any of the mRNAs either in dentate granule cells or in neurons giving rise to the reinnervating fibers at any postlesion interval. These results indicate that neurons in mature animals can substantially remodel their synaptic terminals and their dendrites in the absence of large-scale changes in gene expression (at least as measured by steady-state mRNA levels at various time points).
To address possible roles of glial cells during axon outgrowth in the vertebrate central nervous system, we investigated the appearance and distribution of the glial-specific intermediate filament, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), during early embryogenesis of the zebrafish (Danio rerio). Immunopositive cells first appear at 15 hours, which is at the time of, or slightly before, the first axon outgrowth in the brain. Immunopositive processes are not initially present in a pattern that prefigures the location of the first tracts but rather are distributed widely as endfeet adjacent to the pia, overlying most of the surface of the brain with the exception of the dorsal and ventral midline. The first evidence for a specific association of immunopositive cells with the developing tracts is observed at 24 hours in the hindbrain, where immunopositive processes border axons in the medial longitudinal fasciculus. By 48 hours, immunopositive processes have disappeared from most of the subpial lamina and are found exclusively in association with tracts and commissures in three forms: endfeet, radially oriented processes, and tangentially oriented processes parallel to axons. This last form is particularly prominent in the transverse plane of the hindbrain, where they define the boundaries between rhombomeres. These results suggest that glial cells contribute to the development and organization of the central nervous system by supporting early axon outgrowth in the subpial lamina and by forming boundaries around tracts and between neuromeres. The results are discussed in relation to previous results on neuron-glia interactions and possible roles of glial cells in axonal guidance.


Protein-tyrosine phosphorylation has recently been suggested to play an important role in synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junction. The role of tyrosine phosphorylation in the modulation of synaptic function in the central nervous system, however, is not clear. In this study, immunocytochemical staining with an anti-phosphotyrosine antibody demonstrates that there are high levels of phosphotyrosine, which co-localizes with glutamate receptors at excitatory synapses on cultured hippocampal neurons. In addition, the tyrosine phosphorylation of various subtypes of glutamate receptors were examined using subunit-specific antibodies. Glutamate receptors are the major excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the central nervous system and are classified into three major classes: alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionate, kainate, and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, based on their electrophysiological and pharmacological properties. NMDA receptors play a central role in synaptic plasticity, synaptogenesis, and excitotoxicity and are thought to be heteromeric complexes of the two types of subunits: NR1 and NR2(A-D) subunits. Immunoaffinity chromatography of detergent extracts of rat synaptic plasma membranes on anti-phosphotyrosine antibody-agarose showed that the NR2A and NR2B subunits but not the NR1 subunit are tyrosine-phosphorylated. Conversely, immunoprecipitation of the NR1, NR2A, and NR2B subunits with subunit specific antibodies followed by immunoblotting with anti-phosphotyrosine antibodies confirmed that the NR2A and NR2B subunits but not the NR1 subunit were phosphorylated on tyrosine residues. No tyrosine phosphorylation of the AMPA (GluR1-4) and kainate (GluR6/7, KA2) receptor subunits was detected. It was estimated that 2.1 +/- 1.3% of the NR2A subunits and 3.6 +/- 2.4% of the NR2B subunits were tyrosine-phosphorylated in vivo. In addition, endogenous protein-tyrosine kinases in synaptic plasma membranes phosphorylated the NR2A subunit in vitro, increasing its phosphorylation 6-8-fold but did not phosphorylate NR1 or NR2B. These studies demonstrate that NMDA receptor subunits are differentially tyrosine-phosphorylated and suggest that tyrosine phosphorylation of the NR2 subunits may be important for regulating NMDA receptor function.
A patient with selective bilateral damage to the amygdala did not acquire conditioned autonomic responses to visual or auditory stimuli but did acquire the declarative facts about which visual or auditory stimuli were paired with the unconditioned stimulus. By contrast, a patient with selective bilateral damage to the hippocampus failed to acquire the facts but did acquire the conditioning. Finally, a patient with bilateral damage to both amygdala and hippocampal formation acquired neither the conditioning nor the facts. These findings demonstrate a double dissociation of conditioning and declarative knowledge relative to the human amygdala and hippocampus.

A strong neurotensin-like immunoreactivity (NT-like IR) was detected in the odontoblast cells of the rat teeth. 4 h after a partial pulpotomy performed in two maxillary molar teeth a decreased NT-like IR was observed in the odontoblast layer located at the vicinity of the lesion together with edema and nuclear pyknosis. NT-like IR became further decreased after 24 h. After 7 days NT-like IR had almost fully disappeared with signs of necrosis of the dental pulp and infiltration of polymorphonuclear lymphocytes. It seems possible that NT like peptides in the odontoblast cell layer may play a role, e.g., in dentinogenesis and/or nociception.
The distribution of acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) mRNA-expressing neurons was studied throughout the adult mouse central nervous system (CNS) with in situ hybridization histochemistry using a radiolabelled synthetic oligodeoxynucleotide probe complementary to the mRNA of human aFGF. We report here a widespread distribution of aFGF mRNA in several defined functional systems of the adult mouse brain, whereby the highest levels of aFGF mRNA were found in large somatomotor neurons in the nuclei of the oculomotor, trochlear, abducens, and hypoglossal nerves; in the motoneurons of the ventral spinal cord and the special visceromotor neurons in the motor nucleus of the trigeminal nerve; and in the facial and ambiguus nuclei. Labelled perikarya were also detected in all central structures of the auditory pathway including the level of the inferior colliculus, i.e., the lateral and medial superior nuclei; the trapezoid, cochlear, and lateral lemniscal nuclei; and parts of the anterior colliculus. Furthermore, many aFGF-positive cell bodies were found in the vestibular system and other structures projecting to the cerebellum, in the deep cerebellar nuclei, in somatosensory structures of the medulla (i.e., in the gracile, cuneate, and external cuneate nuclei), as well as in the spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve. The findings that aFGF mRNA is expressed in all components of several well-defined systems (i.e., in sensory structures) as well as in central neurons that process sensory information and, finally, in some efferent projections point towards a concept of aFGF expression primarily within certain neuronal circuitries.
It has been hypothesized that, in Alzheimer's disease, glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity contributes to the degeneration of selected populations of neurons. In the present study, immunocytochemical techniques were used to determine the distribution and anatomical features of GluR1- and GluR2/3-immunolabeled cell bodies and processes within the hippocampal formation of normal (i.e., no pathology) elderly humans. The results of this study provide an essential baseline with which to compare the expression and distribution of glutamate receptor subunits within the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. With respect to GluR1 immunoreactivity, the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus displays the most intense immunolabeling of any hippocampal structure. Contributing to this intense labeling are apical dendrites that arise from neurons within the adjacent granule cell layer. Interestingly, GluR1-labeled neurons account for a relatively small percentage of the total number of neurons as revealed by Nissl staining in the granule cell layer. In contrast, GluR2/3-labeled neurons are densely distributed throughout the granule cell layer, yet they provide relatively few processes to the adjacent molecular layer compared to GluR1-positive processes. GluR1 labeling is also prominent within the CA fields of Ammon's horn, with CA2 &gt; CA3 &gt; CA1 &gt; or = CA4. Most prominent within the CA fields are the labeled dendrites of pyramidal neurons. In many instances, apical dendrites can be traced into the adjacent stratum radiatum, where they impart a deep striated appearance to this region of the hippocampus. Robust GluR2/3 labeling is also observed within the pyramidal layer of Ammon's horn, with an order of staining intensity similar to that observed for GluR1. However, unlike GluR1 labeling, which is localized predominantly along dendrites, GluR2/3 labeling is observed primarily in association with cell bodies. Collectively, these data suggest that the molecular composition of the AMPA receptor complex may differ between the dendrite and soma of granule and pyramidal neurons within the hippocampal formation, so functionally we may predict that these two regions of the neuron would respond differently following glutamate receptor stimulation.
The concentration of nitrite, a metabolite of nitric oxide (NO), was increased in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of untreated patients with Parkinson's disease and in patients treated with L-DOPA in comparison with a group of patients without dopaminergic dysfunction. There was no difference in the concentration of L-arginine (ARG), a precursor of NO, between the groups. There was a highly significant, linear relationship between the concentration of nitrite and ARG in the CSF suggesting that the production of NO is dependent on the availability of ARG. The results support the possibility that production of NO is increased in the brain in Parkinson's disease.
Using positron emission tomography, we mapped brain activity in normal volunteers during the recognition of visual stimuli representing living (animals) and non-living (artefacts) entities. The subjects had to decide whether pairs of visual stimuli were different representations of the same object, or different objects. Animal recognition was associated with activations in the inferior temporo-occipital areas, bilaterally, whereas artefact recognition engaged a predominantly left hemispheric network, involving the left dorsolateral frontal cortex. These findings, which concur with clinical observations in neurological patients, provide in vivo evidence for a fractionation of the neural substrates of semantic knowledge in man.
Ibogaine causes degeneration of Purkinje cells (PKCs), presumably via activation of neurons in the inferior olive leading to release of glutamate at climbing fiber terminals. Following ibogaine administration, some Purkinje cells express NADPH-diaphorase and neuronal NOS (nNOS), neither of which is present normally in these cells. The induction of NOS is delayed in onset, dose-related, and detected in neurons adjacent to degenerated PKCs. The results demonstrate that nNOS induction can follow excitotoxic neuronal injury or perturbation. However, NO is unlikely to participate in the initial phase of PKC damage. Both the late induction of nNOS and the spatial relationship between damaged and nNOS-expressing PKCs are consistent with a role for NO in either neuronal recovery or delayed cell death following excitotoxic injury.
Isolated snail gonadal cells were cultured in the presence of synthetic neuropeptides in order to determine the subsequent effect of these substances on gonadal synthetic activities. Gonadal cells were incubated for 24 h in concentrations of methionine-enkephalin, somatostatin and insulin ranging from 10(-4) M to 10(-9) M, in medium 199 supplemented with 6% Ultroser G. Synthesis of DNA and protein by the cultured cells were simultaneously estimated by measuring incorporation of 3H thymidine and 35S methionine. The rate of labelled precursor incorporation was measured using the liquid scintillation technique. All substances tested exerted a dose-dependent effect. The synthetic activity of the cultured cells was highest when the concentration of the peptides added to the medium approximated the physiological levels. Methionine-enkephalin, somatostatin and insulin at 2 x 10(-8) M significantly increased 3H thymidine incorporation, by 62%, 69% and 69% respectively, and protein synthesis by 42%, 57% and 57%, respectively. In the case of juvenile gonadal cultured cells, a similar increase in 3H and 35S incorporation was registered for a 10(-7) M peptide concentration. Both lower and higher peptide concentrations inhibited 3H thymidine and 35S methionine incorporation. Pharmacological studies suggest the existence of methionine-enkephalin and somatostatin-like receptors on snail gonadal cells. These results indicate that our gonadal cell culture model provides a useful tool for the study of the neuroendocrinological control of the activity of snail gonadal cells.
We have explored the properties of a Ca(2+)-dependent cell-signalling pathway that becomes active when cultured equine sweat gland cells are stimulated with ATP. The ATP-regulated, Ca(2+)-influx pathway allowed Sr2+ to enter the cytoplasm but permitted only a minimal influx of Ba2+. Experiments in which cells were repeatedly stimulated with ATP suggested that Sr2+, but not Ba2+, could become incorporated into the agonist-sensitive, cytoplasmic Ca2+ store. Further evidence for this was provided by experiments using ionomycin, a Ca2+ ionophore which has no affinity for Sr2+.
The non-A beta component of Alzheimer's disease (AD) amyloid (NAC) was identified biochemically as the second major component in the amyloid purified from brain tissue of AD patients. NAC, derived from its 140 amino acid long precursor, NACP, is at least 35 amino acids long (NAC35) although its amino terminus is not definitely determined. An antiserum, anti-NAC-X1, was raised against the amino-terminal 9 amino acid sequence of NAC35 and purified on a peptide affinity column. This affinity-purified anti-NAC-X1 antibody immunostained amyloid in AD brain sections and recognized NAC35 but not NACP on Western or dot blot. In aqueous solutions, synthetic NAC35 self-aggregated in a time-, concentration-, and temperature-dependent manner. NAC35 was detected initially as a monomer with a molecular mass of 3500 Da but became aggregated as a function of time into a higher molecular mass component that could not migrate into the gel. The aggregate of NAC35 showed green-gold birefringence after Congo red staining when analyzed under polarized light and fiber-like structure when analyzed ultrastructurally. These results suggest that NAC can form amyloid after it has been cleaved out of its precursor and may be a crucial factor in amyloidosis in the AD brain.

Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of several neuropeptides have been suggested as candidate markers in neurodegenerative disorders. We have examined the levels of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), beta-endorphine (BEND), delta sleep-inducing peptide (DSIP), somatostatin (SRIF), and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in CSF samples obtained under highly standardized conditions from healthy aged controls and from patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease (AD) or vascular dementia (VAD). The influence of some potentially confounding factors was evaluated. CRH and BEND were markedly decreased in both AD and VAD patients, and BEND levels correlated negatively with degree of dementia within the patient population. SRIF was decreased in both AD and VAD patients. DSIP was slightly increased in AD, but not in VAD. NPY did not differ between groups. For none of the peptides did CSF concentrations correlate significantly with duration of illness, nor, with the exception of BEND, with its degree. Present data do not support the hypothesis that specific neuropeptide changes occur in different neurodegenerative disorders, but are in agreement with previous reports suggesting that neuropeptide systems are differentially affected by neurodegeneration.
The effect of protein kinase C activators and inhibitors on histamine-stimulated phospholipase C in bovine adrenal medullary cells has been investigated. The protein kinase C activators, phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (PDB) or sn-1,2-dioctanoylglycerol (DOG), inhibited histamine-stimulation of phospholipase C. This inhibition was prevented by the protein kinase C-selective inhibitor Ro 31-8220 (3-[1-[3-(2-isothioureido) propyl]indol-3-yl]-4-(1-methylindol-3-yl)-3-pyrrolin-2,5-dio ne) but not the broad spectrum protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine. Indeed staurosporine on its own inhibited both the histamine-stimulated response and, in permeabilized cells, phospholipase C activated by Ca2+. Staurosporine inhibition of phospholipase C is unlikely to be mediated via protein kinase A or Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase because it was not reproduced by selective inhibition of these kinases. Staurosporine treatment, however, reduced inositol phospholipid levels in stimulated cells. Thus staurosporine and Ro 31-8220, two widely used protein kinase C inhibitors, have quite different effects on phospholipase C activation. Furthermore, staurosporine may cause this inhibition through a reduction in the level of phospholipase C substrate.
Using radioligand binding studies, we have investigated the binding properties of four 4-hydroxy-2-quinolones, a novel series of selective antagonists for the glycine site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. L-701,324, L-703,717, L-698,532 and L-695,902 inhibited [3H]L-689,560 (glycine site antagonist) binding to rat cortex/hippocampus P2 membranes with IC50 values of 1.97, 4.47, 209 and 6448 nM, respectively, whilst also inhibiting non-equilibrium [3H]dizocilpine binding to the NMDA receptor ion-channel. All four compounds partially inhibited L-[3H]glutamate (approximately 50% inhibition; agonist) binding and enhanced [3H]cis-4-phosphonomethyl-2-piperidine carboxylate ([3H]CGS-19755; 41-81% enhancement; 'C-5' antagonist) and [3H]3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonate ([3H]CPP; 28-66% enhancement; 'C-7' antagonist) binding to the glutamate recognition site of the NMDA receptor with EC50 values similar to those observed for [3H]L-689,560 binding. These results provide further evidence for allosteric interactions between the glutamate and glycine recognition sites of the NMDA receptor complex, and as the 4-hydroxy-2-quinolones are 'full' antagonists at the glycine site, indicate that these interactions are not caused by the intrinsic activity of a compound.
We found previously that epidermal growth factor (EGF) decreases choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in forebrain cholinergic neurons in vitro indirectly via glia (Kenigsberg et al.: Neuroscience 50: 85-97, 1992). However, which glial type(s) are implicated in this response remained to be determined. Here we report that in primary cultures from the fetal rat medial septal area the complete elimination of oligodendrocytes or partial elimination of microglia from these cultures does not change the cholinergic cell response to EGF. However, the elimination of astroglia in our cultures by alpha-aminoadipic acid treatment blocks EGF's effects on the cholinergic neurons. Co-culture experiments using pure neuronal and purified glial cells from the medial septum further demonstrate that the cholinergic cell response to EGF can be maintained in the presence of astroglia only. In addition, it appears that EGF regulates the release of soluble factors from pure astroglia cultures following their peak mitotic response to EGF that decreases ChAT enzymatic activity. This soluble cholinergic neuromodulatory activity found in conditioned media from EGF-treated astrocytes has a molecular weight greater than or equal to 10 kD and loses potency following multiple freeze-thaw cycles. These results suggest that a direct glial cell response to a specific glial growth factor like EGF may have an important impact on the expression of local neurons, like the cholinergic in the forebrain.
1. We have used dendrite-attached patch-clamp techniques to record single Na+ and Ca2+ channel activity from the apical dendrites (up to 350 microns away from soma) of CA1 pyramidal neurons in rat hippocampal slices (ages: 2-8 weeks). 2. Na+ channels were found in every patch examined (range: 2 to &gt; 20 channels per patch). Channel openings, which had a slope conductance of 15 +/- 0.3 pS (mean +/- S.E.M.), began with test commands to around -50 mV and consisted of both early transient channel activity and also later occurring prolonged openings of 5-15 ms. All Na+ channel activity was suppressed by inclusion of TTX (1 microM) in the recording pipette. 3. Ca2+ channel activity was recorded in about 80% of the patches examined (range: 1 to &gt; 10 channels per patch). Several types of channel behaviour were observed in these patches. Single channel recordings in 110 mM BaCl2, revealed an approximately 10 pS channel of small unitary current amplitude (-0.5 pA at -20 mV). These channels began activating at relatively hyperpolarized potentials (-50 mV) and ensemble averages of this low voltage-activated (LVA) channel activity showed rapid inactivation. 4. A somewhat heterogeneous population of high voltage-activated, moderate conductance (HVAm; approximately 17 pS), Ca2+ channel activity was also encountered. These channels exhibited a relatively large unitary amplitude (-0.8 pA at 0 mV) and ensemble averages demonstrated moderate inactivation. The HVAm population of channels could be tentatively subdivided into two separate groups based upon mean channel open times. 5. Less frequently, HVA, large conductance (27 pS) Ca2+ channel activity (HVA1) was also observed. This large unitary amplitude (-1.5 pA at 0 mV) channel activity began with steps to approximately 0 mV and ensemble averages did not show any time-dependent inactivation. The dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel agonist Bay K 8644 (0.5 or 1 microM) was found to characteristically prolong these channel openings. 6. omega-Conotoxin MVIIC (10 microM), did not significantly reduce the amount of channel activity recorded from the LVA, HVAm or HVA1 channel types in dendritic patches. In patches from somata, omega-conotoxin MVIIC was effective in eliminating a significant amount of HVAm Ca2+ channel activity. Inclusion of 50 or 100 microM NiCl2 to the recording solution significantly reduced the amount of channel activity recorded from LVA and HVAm channel types in dendritic patches. A subpopulation of HVAm channels was, however, found to be Ni2+ insensitive. Dendritic HVA, channel activity was unaffected by these low concentrations of Ni2+.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Although neurotrophins are primarily associated with long-term effects on neuronal survival and differentiation, recent studies have shown that acute changes in synaptic transmission can also be produced. In the hippocampus, an area critically involved in learning and memory, we have found that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) rapidly enhanced synaptic efficacy through a previously unreported mechanism--increased postsynaptic responsiveness via a phosphorylation-dependent pathway. Within minutes of BDNF application to cultured hippocampal neurons, spontaneous firing rate was dramatically increased, as were the frequency and amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic currents. The increased frequency of postsynaptic currents resulted from the change in presynaptic firing. However, the increased amplitude was postsynaptic in origin because it was selectively blocked by intracellular injection of the tyrosine kinase receptor (Ntrk2/TrkB) inhibitor K-252a and potentiated by injection of the phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid. These results suggest a role for BDNF in the modulation of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus.
We describe the characteristics of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the intact mouse. Perforant path stimulation evokes both a population excitatory postsynaptic potential (pop-EPSP) and a population spike potential (pop-spike) from the hippocampal dentate gyrus in urethane anesthetized animals. LTP, as measured by increased pop-spike amplitude and pop-EPSP slope, was successfully induced and reliably maintained at a stable level for at least 12 h, the longest time tested. The LTP-inducing stimulus (3 trains of 400 Hz, 8 0.4 ms pulses/train) used in two strains of mice was less by half than that used in rat. These parameters for inducing LTP were also successfully applied to obtain LTP in two different transgenic mouse strains: one bearing a F1/Gap-43 promoter-lacZ fusion gene and another which overexpresses the S100 beta gene. We also examined the effects of protein synthesis inhibitors, cycloheximide (CXM) and anisomycin (ANI). When CXM or ANI was given 30 min before LTP induction, there was no persistent loss of LTP at the 4 h time point. However, if CXM was given 4 h before LTP induction, significant decay of the potentiated responses occurred 90 min after induction. Half of the animals receiving CXM but not ANI showed a complete and sudden elimination of the entire response after the LTP-inducing stimulus. It was speculated that loss of a constitutively-expressed housekeeping protein, for example a calcium buffering protein, with an estimated half-life of 2 h would lead to an inability to buffer LTP-induced alterations, such as intracellular calcium elevation, increasing intracellular calcium to toxic levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In order to probe the interaction between the neurotransmitter receptors and guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory (G) proteins in rat hippocampus, the high-affinity GTPase activity stimulated by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), carbachol (CCh), and dopamine (DA) has been investigated, focusing on the additivity among the effects of these agonists at their maximally effective concentrations. There were simple additive relationships among 5-HT-, GABA-, and CCh-stimulated activities. As 5-HT, GABA-, and CCh-stimulated high-affinity GTPase activities are mediated by the 5-HT1A, GABAB, and pirenzepine-insensitive muscarinic receptors, respectively, the additive effects indicate that these three receptors are independently coupled to distinct pools of G proteins. In contrast, an apparent lack of additivity was seen between 5-HT- and DA-stimulated activities. This phenomenon was likely due to an activation of the common 5-HT1A receptor-mediated signalling by DA as well as 5-HT, since the DA-sensitive increment of the activity was potently inhibited by the 5-HT1 receptor antagonist methiothepin, but not by the DA D2 receptor antagonist raclopride.
Sprague-Dawley rats develop progressive motor dysfunctions during the third year of life. We use this as a model to examine possible neuronal mechanism(s) that may cause motor impairments occuring during aging. In this study we have used indirect immunofluorescence histochemistry (IF) and in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISH) to study quantitatively and qualitatively the staining pattern and mRNA expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide (alpha-CGRP), growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43), and acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) in spinal lumbar motoneurons of young adult (2-3 months) and aged (30 months) Sprague-Dawley rats. In addition, mRNAs encoding choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), beta-CGRP, and cholecystokinin (CCK) were analyzed. All aged rats used in this study disclosed symptoms of hindlimb incapacity, ranging from mild weight-bearing insufficiency to paralysis of the hind limbs. The symptoms were confined to the musculature of the hindlimb and hip regions. Only a small number (approximately 15%) of the large motoneurons that innervate the hindlimb muscles were lost in those aged rats that had clinical symptoms of hindlimb motor incapacities. The remaining motoneurons expressed ChAT mRNA at levels similar to those of young adult rats. The vast majority of these motoneurons showed increased mRNA levels for alpha-CGRP and GAP-43. Aged motoneurons contained more CGRP like immunoreactivity (LI), but the number of immunoreactive neurons was smaller than in adult rats. GAP-43-LI could be detected in motoneurons in aged, but not in adult, rats. GAP-43-LI was always colocalized with CGRP-LI in aged motoneurons. Studies of individual aged rats revealed that the increase of GAP-43 mRNA-positive cell bodies occurred in cases with the most severe clinical symptoms, whereas the increase in alpha-CGRP was even evident in rats with mild symptoms. No alterations in content of aFGF-LI or aFGF mRNA could be detected in the aged rat, and the content of CCK and beta-CGRP mRNAs was also normal. The usefulness of this rat model for studies of neuromuscular aging and possible functional roles for GAP-43 and CGRP in plastic and regenerative processes during aging are discussed.
The primate orbitofrontal cortex is a component of the paralimbic cortical &quot;belt&quot; and consists of several distinct areas. It is involved in high order association functions that include the integration of emotion, behavior, and various sensory processes. To define the cyto- and chemo-architectonic organization of the human orbitofrontal cortex, we have used antibodies to the nonphosphorylated neurofilament triplet protein and to the calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin and calretinin. Immunohistochemistry revealed labeling patterns corresponding to the cytoarchitecture defined by Nissl preparations. Neurofilament protein-immunoreactive pyramidal neurons were located only in layers V-VI in the agranular posterior orbitofrontal cortex, whereas they were distributed in both layers III and V-VI in the anteromedial and anterolateral granular regions. The intermediate dysgranular portion of the orbitofrontal cortex represented a transition zone with a progressive decrease in layer III labeled pyramidal cell numbers posteriorly. The distribution of parvalbumin- and calretinin-immunoreactive interneurons was more homogeneous, although the posteromedial region and the cortex of the inferior rostral sulcus had slightly lower parvalbumin-positive neuron counts than the other orbitofrontal areas. Parvalbumin immunoreactivity in the neuropil exhibited a high degree of regional specialization in that it was consistently less intense in the cortex of the intermediate and posterior part of the gyrus rectus, whereas the other orbitofrontal areas had a very dense neuropil staining in layers III to V. Also, there was a dense plexus of parvalbumin-immunoreactive fibers restricted to layer I in the posterolateral orbitofrontal cortex, and patches of neuropil staining in layer III of the inferior rostral sulcus. These region-specific neuropil staining patterns may correspond to the distribution of parvalbumin-immunoreactive thalamocortical projections to distinct domains of the orbitofrontal cortex. This regional parcellation of the human orbitofrontal cortex as defined by specific neuronal markers, may represent an anatomical substrate for the localization of the various functions attributed to this poorly understood cortical region.
Paired helical filaments (PHFs) are the major structural elements of Alzheimer's disease neurofibrillary lesions, and these filaments are formed from hyperphosphorylated brain tau known as PHF-tau. Recent studies showed that many previously identified phosphorylated residues in PHF-tau also are phosphate acceptor sites in fetal and rapidly processed adult brain tau. However, Ser262 has been suggested to be uniquely phosphorylated in PHF-tau and a key regulator of the binding of tau to microtubules. For these reasons, we generated a monoclonal antibody (12E8) specific for phosphorylated Ser262 and showed that 12E8 binds to PHF-tau, rat and human fetal brain tau, as well as to rapidly processed adult rat and biopsy-derived human brain tau. Further, phosphorylation Ser262 was developmentally regulated, and endogenous brain phosphatases rapidly dephosphorylated Ser262 in biopsy-derived brain tau isolates. Finally, the phosphorylation of Ser262 did not eliminate the binding of tau to microtubules. Thus, we speculate that the binding of tau to microtubules is regulated by phosphorylation at multiple sites and that the generation of PHF-tau in Alzheimer's disease results from the reduced efficiency of phosphatases leading to the incremental accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau.
We described the characterization of a novel G protein alpha subunit, G alpha a. cDNA encoding this subunit was cloned from the central nervous system of the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis. The deduced protein contains all characteristic guanine nucleotide-binding domains of G alpha subunits but shares only a limited degree of overall sequence identity with known subtypes (approximately 30%). Moreover, two of the nucleotide-binding domains exhibit salient deviations from corresponding sequences in other G protein alpha subunits. The A domain, determining kinetic features of the GTPase cycle, contains a markedly unique amino acid sequence (ILIIGGPGAGK). In addition, the C domain is also clearly distinct (DVAGQRSL). The presence of a leucine in this motif, instead of glutamic acid, has important implications for hypotheses concerning the GTPase mechanism. In contrast to other G alpha subtypes, G alpha a has no appropriate N-terminal residues that could be acylated. It does contain the strictly conserved arginine residue that serves as a cholera toxin substrate in G alpha s and G alpha t but lacks a site for ADP-ribosylation by pertussis toxin. In situ hybridization experiments indicate that G alpha a-encoding mRNA is expressed in a limited subpopulation of neurons within the Lymnaea brain. These data suggest that G alpha a defines a separate class of G proteins with cell type-specific functions.
The retinofugal projection to the nucleus of Bellonci (nB) was examined in Rana pipiens using both anterograde and retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase (HRP). Following HRP injection into the nB, retrogradely labeled optic axons formed a discrete fascicle that crossed the lateral margin of the anterior diencephalon. We have designated this branch of the retinofugal pathway as the &quot;medial optic tract.&quot; HRP-positive, medial optic tract axons projecting to nB occupied the rostral and most dorsal portion of the optic chiasm. The present findings indicate that within the optic chiasm, retinal axons are sorted according to their final destinations.
Neurophysiologists have documented the existence of multiple cortical areas responsive to different visual features. This modular organization has sparked theoretical interest in how the &quot;binding problem&quot; is solved. Recent data from a neurological patient (R.M.) with bilateral parietal-occipital lesions demonstrates that the binding problem is not just a hypothetical construct; it can be a practical problem, as rare as the selective inability to perceive motion or color. R.M. miscombines colors and shapes even under free viewing conditions and is unable to judge either relative or absolute visual locations. The evidence suggests that a single explanation--an inadequate spatial representation--can account for R.M.'s spatial judgment and feature-binding deficits.
One proopiomelanocortin peptide [beta-endorphin (BE)] and two proenkephalin A peptides [methionine enkephalin (ME) and leucine enkephalin (LE); LE derives also from proenkephalin B] were searched for in a bovine pituitary extract by capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) and liquid secondary-ion mass spectrometry (LSIMS). A bovine pituitary homogenate was subjected to acid precipitation/centrifugation and solid-phase extraction of peptides using an octadecyl-silyl disposable cartridge. The peptide-enriched fraction was subjected to CZE at pH 2.5 and at pH 5.5., and fractions were collected under preparative CZE conditions within defined time windows where synthetic BE, ME, and LE migrate. The resolving power of CZE was demonstrated by collecting biological fractions at pH 5.5 under preparative conditions and by subsequently analyzing these fractions at pH 2.5 under analytical conditions. Preparative CZE was further performed at pH 2.5 for fractions collected at pH 5.5. LSIMS analysis of this second-dimensional CZE fraction revealed the appropriate protonated molecule ion [(M + H)+, m/z 556.4] of LE.
The dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia received strong support when a two- to three-fold elevation of D2 receptor densities was demonstrated by positron emission tomography (PET) and [11C]N-methylspiperone ([11C]NMSP). In the present study, the reproducibility of this finding was examined by application of a similar method in seven normal comparison subjects and seven neuroleptic-naive schizophrenic patients examined by PET before and after administration of haloperidol, 7.5 mg. After haloperidol, the specific binding of [11C]NMSP was reduced by 80-90%, resulting in a signal-to-noise ratio that was unfavorably low for reliable quantification. No significant difference was found between normal subjects and patients in a descriptive analysis of the time-activity curves or in a nonequilibrium graphical determination of D2 receptor densities in the basal ganglia. The results are consistent with those of a previous quantitative PET study of [11C]raclopride binding, which showed normal densities of D2 receptors in the striatum of neuroleptic-naive schizophrenic patients.
The laterality index (right - left)/(right + left) has been widely used to measure cerebral asymmetry. However, its validity rests on the assumption that confounding effects of overall head and body size are symmetrical on both sides of the brain. We have found that this assumption may not always be justified. In magnetic resonance imaging data from a group of 43 right-handed normal control and schizophrenic subjects, the laterality index controlled poorly for the asymmetrical confounding effect of height, leading to a spurious (although statistically significant) correlation between height and apparent cerebral asymmetry. Regression modeling is advocated as a more rational and effective way to explore and control size effects confounding cerebral lateralization.
Release of norepinepriine (NE) and its metabolites in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) was examined using in vivo microdialysis in conscious rats before, during and after 2 h of immobilization. Microdialysate levels of NE and of dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) increased by 170-290% above basal levels during the 1st h of immobilization and decreased gradually thereafter. In contrast, levels of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) increased gradually over the entire period of immobilization, peaking at 110% above baseline levels. These findings indicate that in rats a single immobilization is attended by increased synthesis, release and reuptake of NE within the BNST. The results are consistent with previous findings relating to stress-induced release of NE in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, central nucleus of the amygdala and cerebral cortex and suggest concurrent noradrenergic activation in several brains centers during acute stress.
The effects of estrogen on estrogen receptor (ER) immunoreactivity in the male ferret brain were examined. Estrogen treatment reduced the mean number of ER-immunopositive (ER+) cells/unit area in periventricular preoptic area but increased the mean number of ER+ cells/unit area in the medial division of the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, while having no effect on the number of ER+ cells/unit area in the lateral VMH and arcuate nucleus. Thus, estrogen regulates brain ER immunoreactivity in male ferrets and the direction and magnitude of this regulation are brain region-specific.
Altered serotonin indices have been reported in the brain of suicide victims. We sought to localize the changes in presynaptic and postsynaptic serotonin receptors and identify an area of prefrontal cortex that may influence suicide risk. Quantitative autoradiography was performed in coronal sections of prefrontal cortex to determine whether serotonin 5-HT1A receptor (postsynaptic in cortex) and serotonin transporter (presynaptic) binding are different in suicide victims compared to matched controls. 5-HT1A receptor binding was higher in 85 of the 103 sampled areas in the suicide group (n = 18 pairs; P &lt; 0.0001). The increase ranged from 17 to 30%. The increase was more pronounced in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. Serotonin transporter binding was found to be lower in the suicide group in all but one of the 43 sampled regions (n = 22 pairs; P &lt; 0.0001). The reduction in binding was most pronounced in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, where the difference between suicides and controls ranged between 15 and 27%. Serotonin transporter and 5-HT1A binding were negatively correlated (r = -0.35 to -0.44, P = 0.04 to 0.007) within the same brain areas, suggesting common regulatory factors with opposite effects on binding to the two receptors. We conclude that suicide victims have an abnormality in the serotonin system involving predominantly the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, and hypothesize that the serotonergic dysfunction in this brain region contributes to the risk for suicidal behavior.
The main component of Alzheimer's disease (AD) amyloid deposits is amyloid beta-peptide (A beta), a fragment of the larger amyloid precursor protein (APP). The cellular source of A beta is not known, but a circulatory origin has been postulated. We studied human blood from healthy individuals and found that platelets account for almost 90% of the total anti-A beta immunoreactivity detected in whole blood. Using reverse-phase HPLC, we identified a platelet peptide which corresponds to A beta by three criteria: (a) it shares a retention time with the synthetic A beta 1-40 peptide in two consecutive HPLC tests; (b) it interacts with two anti-A beta antibodies in separate ELISAs; and, (c) its partial N-terminal amino acid sequence closely matches that of A beta. The detection of this peptide in platelets indicates that, aside from the well-known non-amyloidogenic (secretory) pathway, the processing of APP in platelets from healthy individuals also involves an amyloidogenic pathway. These findings are consistent with the view that platelets are one of the major sources of A beta in the circulation.
The secreted form of amyloid precursor protein (APPs) including most of the extracellular domain of APP is released from the cell surface, suggesting physiological significance of APPs in vivo. We used the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris as a host system for the production of recombinant APPs (rAPPs). Two rAPPss derived from isoforms of APP (APP695 and APP770) were secreted into the culture medium from the yeast, which carried cDNA encoding the N-terminal portion of APP under the control of a P. pastoris alcohol oxidase promoter. Like APPss produced by the transfected COS-1 cells, the purified rAPPss from yeast were shown to be biologically active in terms of neurite outgrowth of embryonic rat neocortical explants. These rAPPss could be valuable tools for investigating the biological functions of APPss.
Glucocorticoids and insulin (INS) complexly affect sympathoneural and adrenomedullary outflows. This study assessed effects of chronic hypercortisolemia and effects of INS independent of INS-induced hypoglycemia on neurochemical indices of different aspects of catecholaminergic function in conscious rats. Since L-DOPA is the precursor of the endogenous catecholamines and the immediate product of the rate-limiting enzymatic step in catecholamine biosynthesis, alterations in rates of appearance (spillover) of L-DOPA in arterial plasma may reflect alterations in catecholamine synthesis. The study therefore included examination of whether cortisol (CORT) or INS affects L-DOPA spillover or renal excretion of dopamine (DA) derived from plasma L-DOPA. Arterial plasma levels and urinary excretion rates of endogenous catechols and radiolabelled L-DOPA and DA were measured during systemic intravenous infusions of [3H]L-DOPA. CORT was administered via a subcutaneous minipump reservoir for one week prior to [3H]L-DOPA infusion, and INS was infused with glucose to examine effects of hyperinsulinemia independently of hypoglycemia. CORT decreased plasma levels and urinary excretion of norepinephrine (NE). INS did not. Neither CORT nor INS affected levels of other catechols, L-DOPA spillover, or the rate of urinary excretion of [3H]DA for a given plasma level of [3H]L-DOPA. The results suggest that CORT inhibits sympathetically-mediated NE release without altering overall rates of catecholamine turnover or synthesis in sympathetic nerves in vivo and that INS effects on catecholaminergic function depend entirely on INS-induced hypoglycemia.
Neuroprotective therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD) is a treatment intended to prevent or reduce neuronal degeneration. Since clinical studies to evaluate such an effect would be prolonged, the choice of agents for use as possible neuroprotective therapy is based on the results of in vitro and animal experiments. Free radicals are currently regarded as the most important factor in the progression of PD. One current possible neuroprotective therapy is reduction of levodopa dose, since levodopa is a source of free radical formation. Dopamine (DA) metabolism inhibition, and administration of the DA agonist bromocriptine that eliminates hydroxyl free radicals have neuroprotective effects experimentally. The other candidates for neuroprotective agents are still under development. However, those whose clinical use is permitted should be considered for use, since patients with long-standing PD cannot wait until the neuroprotective efficacy of these agents is confirmed by clinical study.
The aim of this study was to explore and describe features of suicidal temperament and to describe the psychological domains of vulnerability in attempted suicide. Thirty-two suicide attempters were compared with 32 sex- and age-matched convalescent surgical controls on self-report personality inventories; the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire, the Chapman Scales, the Beck Hopelessnes Scale and the Karolinska Scales of Personality. Suicide attempters showed higher scale scores on neuroticism, psychoticism, interpersonal aversiveness, perceptual aberration, nonconformity, hopelessness, somatic anxiety, muscular tension, indirect aggression, suspicion and lower socialization. The features of suicidal temperament include hopelessness and anhedonia, anxiety, hostility and undirected anger expression, psychosis proneness, antisocial traits and interpersonal difficulties. These temperamental features might render the suicidal individual particularly vulnerable to suicidal behavior.
The present study examined whether the sensitivity of carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT) in serum, a biochemical marker of recent excessive alcohol consumption, could be improved during long-term monitoring by introducing individualized cut-offs between normal and elevated CDT levels. Alcohol-dependent male outpatients (n = 22), trying to abstain from alcohol for 6 months, were monitored by comparing weekly measurements of CDT with self-reports of alcohol consumption three times/week and daily urinary levels of 5-hydroxytryptophol (5-HTOL), a new marker of recent alcohol intake. The method used to calculate cut-offs was based on the intraindividual variation in CDT not dependent on excessive alcohol consumption or analytical variations. An increase in CDT exceeding the minimum level for each patient by 3 and 4 times the mean coefficient of variation for healthy social drinkers (i.e., by 30% and 40%) was compared as an indication of alcohol consumption, even if the value did not exceed the conventional cut-off. By using individualized CDT cut-off points, 68 and 41 episodes of drinking were detected in the patients with the cut-offs of &gt; 30% and &gt; 40%, respectively, as compared with 25 with the conventional limit. Most episodes could be verified clinically and/or by elevated urinary 5-HTOL levels during the 2-week period preceding each serum sampling. The results suggest that the possibility to detect relapses by CDT can be improved during long-term monitoring of alcohol-dependent outpatients by introducing individualized cut-off points between normal and elevated CDT levels.
The relative roles of alcohol per se, thiamine deficiency, and liver disease in the pathogenesis of alcohol-related brain damage have not been fully elucidated. In particular, the extent to which alterations of brain thiamine metabolism contribute to cognitive dysfunction in alcoholism in the absence of Wernicke's encephalopathy has not been established. In the present study, thiamine diphosphate-dependent enzymes were measured using standard spectrophotometric techniques in homogenates of brain tissue obtained at autopsy from eight alcoholic patients, all of whom died in hepatic coma without clinical or neuropathological evidence of Wernicke's encephalopathy and six nonalcoholic, age-matched controls, matched for autopsy delay time and free, at the time of death, from gross malnutrition or other neurological or psychiatric disorders. Transketolase activities were reduced in cerebellum (by 35%, p &lt; 0.01), thalamus (by 35%, p &lt; 0.01), frontal cortex (by 22%, p &lt; 0.01), temporal cortex (by 20%, p &lt; 0.01), and prefrontal cortex (by 19%, p &lt; 0.01). Activities of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex were selectively reduced in prefrontal cortex by 25% (p &lt; 0.01). Activities of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase were within normal limits in all brain regions of alcoholic patients. The generalized reductions of transketolase activity undoubtedly result from thiamine deficiency. Previous studies suggest that the presence of liver disease may exacerbate thiamine deficiency in alcoholics. A sustained loss of transketolase activity in brain could result in disruption of pentose shunt activity and concomitant reductions in reducing equivalents and lipid metabolism within the cell. The selective loss of pyruvate dehydrogenase activity in prefrontal cortex of alcoholic cirrhotics could relate to the phenomenon of hepatic coma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Atomic force microscopy was employed to study the structural features of paired helical filaments isolated from autopsied brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. The identity of paired helical filaments was confirmed following a specific immunogold labeling using antibodies directed against the microtubule-associated protein tau, which is the main constituent of paired helical filaments. Computer-assisted analysis of high resolution, three-dimensional images allowed us to study the longitudinal and cross-sectional profiles of individual filaments. Vertical dimensions of filaments were assessed along these sectional profiles. The smallest vertical diameter (6.66 +/- 0.78 nm) was obtained at the level of the greatest lateral profile (ie, &quot;loop&quot;), while the greatest vertical diameter was two times larger (13.68 +/- 1.46 nm) and was obtained at the level of the smallest lateral profile (ie, &quot;crossover&quot;) of the filament. Based on the shapes of these sectional profiles and their vertical dimensions, paired helical filaments appeared to be composed of two identical integral subunits, each of a circular cross-sectional profile of approximately 7 nm in diameter, wound around one another in a left helical manner, with a 7-nm center-to-center separation. Half-period of this helix was estimated at 81.4 +/- 2.1 nm. Serial cross-sectional profiles of paired helical filaments were further utilized to construct a theoretical model of their internal organization. This model suggests that each structural subunit of the paired helical filament incorporates at least four identical protofilaments.
A combination of either retrograde or anterograde fluorescent tracer and immunofluorescence histochemistry using the monoclonal antibody specific for the alpha isoform of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II alpha) was employed to test whether CaM kinase II alpha is expressed in somata of corticospinal neurons and their axons over their whole course. After the injection of carbocyanine dye DiI into the hindlimb area of the primary motor cortex of the rat, corticospinal axons and their terminal arbors were anterogradely labeled: DiI-labeled corticospinal fibers proceeded caudally in the ipsilateral internal capsule, cerebral peduncle and medullary pyramid, crossed at the pyramidal decussation and descended in the ventralmost area of the contralateral dorsal funiculus of the spinal cord. These DiI-labeled corticospinal axons expressed strong CaM kinase II alpha immunoreactivity along their course. However, their terminal arbors within the gray matter of the lumbar cord were very weakly immunostained. With the injection of Fast Blue into the lumbar enlargement of the rat, somata of corticospinal neurons in layer V of the motor cortex were retrogradely labeled. The subsequent immunofluorescent histochemistry revealed that more than 80% of Fast Blue-labeled corticospinal neurons were immunostained with CaM kinase II alpha antibody. The present immunohistochemical study demonstrated that CaM kinase II alpha is strongly expressed in both somata and axons of a majority of corticospinal neurons, although we could not detect this enzyme in the corticospinal terminals in the spinal target areas.
We report a 57-year-old woman who died from Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease 2 years after a liver transplantation. The liver donor had no history of neurological disease. In one albumin donor, possible Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease developed 3 years later. The patient initially had cerebellar symptoms. Neuropathology included &quot;Kuru-type&quot; plaques and prion protein (PrP) deposits involving the cerebellum predominantly. The patient was homozygote valine at codon 129 of the PrP gene while the liver was homozygote methionine. This observation raises the possibility of transmission of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease by the graft itself or the associated albumin transfusions and, on a wider extent, by nonneural tissue.
A 30-year-old female patient lost her scalp in an industrial accident. Surgeons used a microscope to reconnect the arteries and veins in her scalp and to reattach the scalp to the patient's cranium. The patient tolerated the procedure without complications, although she developed venous congestion in her right ear while she was in the neuroscience intensive care unit. After several days of leech therapy, the patient experienced an uneventful postoperative course. One month after discharge from the hospital, the patient's hair was growing back in and her incision lines were fading.
The effect of lipid peroxidation, induced by ascorbic acid and ferrous sulfate (Fe2+) at pH 7.4 or pH 6.5, on the membrane order of retinal cells in culture was examined. Membrane order was measured by fluorescence anisotropy using 1-[4-(trimethylammonium)-phenyl]-6-phenylhexa-1,3,5-triene as a fluorescent probe. Alterations of cellular membrane order were correlated with the susceptibility to peroxidation and viability of these cells. At pH 7.4, 1.5 mM ascorbate/7.5 microM Fe2+ induced a low production of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (3.47 +/- 0.26 nmol TBARS/mg protein), while 5 mM ascorbate/100 microM Fe2+ significantly increased TBARS production to 11.17 +/- 1.43 nmol/mg protein. At pH 6.5, in the presence of 5 mM ascorbate/100 microM Fe2+, cellular oxidation was mostly increased following 15 min incubation (19.33 +/- 1.66 nmol TBARS/mg protein) and decreased thereafter as a result of a prolonged exposure to the oxidizing agents to levels of 11.02 +/- 0.66 nmol TBARS/mg protein, after 180 min peroxidation. The membrane order of control retinal cells treated at pH 6.5 was not changed compared to controls at pH 7.4. Moreover, the membrane order of retinal cells peroxidized at pH 7.4 was not significantly different compared to controls, in the absence of ascorbate/Fe2+. However, significant time-dependent alterations were found in the membrane order of cells peroxidized with 5 mM ascorbate/100 microM Fe2+, at pH 6.5: cellular membrane order decreased after 15 min peroxidation, while longer peroxidative incubation periods, from 60 and up to 180 min, induced an increase in the membrane order. The dual effect of lipid peroxidation, under moderately acidic conditions (pH 6.5), on the membrane order of retinal cells was shown to be prevented upon cellular pretreatment with vitamin E, supplemented to the culture medium. Moreover, vitamin E pretreatment increased the viability of control retinal cells and reduced the production of TBARS after 15 min peroxidation with 5 mM ascorbate/100 microM Fe2+, at pH 6.5. Vitamin E was also shown to reduce conjugated dienes formation after 15 or 60 min peroxidation at pH 6.5.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Cognitive outcome, as measured by verbal and performance IQs, was compared in 35 girls and 47 boys who were in first remission for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. All children had received presymptomatic cranial radiotherapy and intrathecal methotrexate. The mean age at diagnosis was 4.2 years and the mean elapsed time from initial diagnosis to intellectual assessment was 7.1 years. Results showed that children irradiated before the age of 4 years were impaired in certain aspects of non-verbal ability, as well as in measures of short term memory and attention, calculated by factor scores derived from selected subtests of the IQ test. Subtests requiring verbal and non-verbal reasoning showed the greatest impairment after early diagnosis and treatment. In addition girls were selectively impaired in verbal IQ and other aspects of verbal ability, with the degree of impairment exacerbated by early treatment. No relationship was found between degree of impairment and either time since treatment or number of methotrexate injections. It is concluded that early age at irradiation increases the risk of impaired intellectual outcome, particularly in girls.
Performance of homosexual and heterosexual men and women on two motor tasks which reliably demonstrate sex differences in opposite directions was examined. A Throw-to-Target Task and the Purdue Pegboard were administered to undergraduate students matched for age and program of study. A two-way ANOVA (Sex x Sexual Orientation) of the Throw data showed a significant interaction, F(1, 90) = 16.22, p &lt; or = 0.001, and a trend for an effect of sex, F(1, 90) = 3.72, p &lt; 0.06. Heterosexual men outperformed heterosexual women, whereas gay men threw less accurately and lesbians tended to throw more accurately than their heterosexual counterparts. Differences in sports history or hand strength did not account for these effects. Analysis of the Pegboard scores found no interaction or main effect of sexual orientation, but the effect of sex was significant, F(1,63) = 7.01, p &lt; or = 0.02. Regardless of sexual orientation, women outperformed men and this difference remained significant even when a measure of finger size was partialed out. This study provides new evidence suggesting an association between sexual orientation and motor-performance profiles. As with cognitive tasks, the motor-performance profiles of homosexuals are composites of some male-typical and some female-typical abilities. To the extent that sociological factors have been controlled, the study suggests that both sexual orientation and motor/cognitive predispositions may have early biological contributions.

The present experiments investigated the effect of the non-competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonist, dizocilpine (MK-801) (0.075mg/kg) on acquisition and reversal of either a spatial or a visual, appetitively rewarded, simultaneous discrimination task in a Y-maze. The experimental design for the spatial and the visual discriminations was identical, the only difference between the tasks being the nature of the stimulus. Dizocilpine had not effect on acquisition of the spatial task although, when this task was reversed, dizocilpine-treated rats took significantly more trials to reach criterion. On the visual task, dizocilpine impaired both acquisition and reversal. Thus, systemic administration of dizocilpine did not produce a specific spatial learning impairment. The fact that dizocilpine impaired reversal but not acquisition in the spatial task argues against a global performance deficit. Although both the acquisition and reversal phases of the experiment make equal sensory and motor demands on the animal, reversal involves specific learning processes that may be disrupted by dizocilpine.
The effects of the excitatory amino acid glutamate, the microtubule destabilizing agent colchicine, and beta 25-35-amyloid peptide on the phosphorylation state of tau were studied in rat cortical neurons in primary culture. Using immunocytochemistry and Western-blot analysis, we demonstrated that a proportion of tau in these cultures is normally highly phosphorylated, but most of this tau fraction is dephosphorylated after treatment of the cultures with glutamate or colchicine, but not with beta-amyloid; the glutamate- and colchicine-induced changes in tau phosphorylation commenced before cell death, as assessed by release of lactate dehydrogenase. Dephosphorylation of tau was readily revealed by using the monoclonal antibodies Tau.1 and AT8, which have phosphate-sensitive epitopes that both centre around serine-199 and -202 (numbering of the largest tau isoform). On Western blots and by immunocytochemistry, AT8 labelling strongly decreased after glutamate and colchicine treatments, whereas Tau.1 staining was more intense. Neurofilament monoclonal antibodies, including RT97, 8D8, SMI31 and SMI310, all additionally known to recognize tau in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, also demonstrated that glutamate and colchicine treatments of the cultures induced a dephosphorylation of tau. We also showed immunocytochemically that there is an increase in tau immunoreactivity in neuronal perikarya in response to glutamate and colchicine treatment, and this occurs concomitantly with the dephosphorylation of tau. Treatment of the primary rat cortical neuronal cultures with beta 25-35-amyloid peptide, under conditions which induce neuronal degeneration, did not induce a change in tau phosphorylation, and failed to act synergistically with glutamate to produce an increase in dephosphorylation of tau over that produced by glutamate treatment alone. These findings demonstrate that glutamate and colchicine induce tau dephosphorylation, as opposed to increased tau phosphorylation, which would be more indicative of Alzheimer-type neurodegeneration.


A novel neural network model is presented that learns by trial-and-error to reproduce complex sensory-motor sequences. One subnetwork, corresponding to the prefrontal cortex (PFC), is responsible for generating unique patterns of activity that represent the continuous state of sequence execution. A second subnetwork, corresponding to the striatum, associates these state-encoding patterns with the correct response at each point in the sequence execution. From a neuroscience perspective, the model is based on the known cortical and subcortical anatomy of the primate oculomotor system. From a theoretical perspective, the architecture is similar to that of a finite automaton in which outputs and state transitions are generated as a function of inputs and the current state. Simulation results for complex sequence reproduction and sequence discrimination are presented.
ERPs to auditory stimuli, generated during an oddball task, were obtained in a group of autistic children and three control groups (normal, ADDH, and dyslectic children, respectively). The task included the presentation of standards, deviants, and novels and had a (between-group) passive vs. active (counting) condition. It was examined whether 1) it was possible to replicate several earlier findings, 2) autistics manifest an abnormal lateralization pattern of ERPs, 3) autistics have an abnormal mismatch negativity (MMN), and 4) differences between autistics and normals are really specific to the autistic group. The only finding that could be replicated was that autistics have a smaller A/Pcz/300. There was no evidence for abnormal lateralization or abnormal MMN; however, there was an unexpected effect of the task manipulation on the amplitude of the P3: in autistics, the occipital P3 to deviant stimuli was significantly larger in the active than in the passive condition, a finding, like the replication of the smaller A/Pcz/300, specific to the autistic group. It was suggested that the auditory occipital task effect is related to understimulation of the occipital lobe by visual stimuli in autistic children.
1. The effect of administration of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or 'Ecstasy') and its N-demethylated product, 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA) on both rectal temperature and long term neurotoxic loss of cerebral 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) has been studied in male and female Dark Agouti (DA) rats. The female metabolizes debrisoquine more slowly than the male and its use has been suggested as a model of the human debrisoquine 4-hydroxylase poor metabolizer phenotype. 2. A novel h.p.l.c. method was developed and used to measure plasma MDMA and MDA concentrations in the DA rats. 3. The hyperthermic response following MDMA was enhanced in female rats. Plasma MDMA concentrations were also 57% higher than in males 45 min post-injection, while plasma concentrations of MDA were 48% lower. 4. Plasma concentrations of MDMA and MDA in male rats were unaffected by pretreatment with proadifen (15 mg kg-1) or quinidine (60 mg kg-1), but the hyperthermic response to MDMA (10 mg kg-1, i.p.) was enhanced by quinidine pretreatment. 5. The hyperthermic response following MDA was greater in male DA rats, despite plasma drug concentrations being 40% higher in females 60 min after injection. 6. Seven days after a single dose of MDMA (10 mg kg-1, i.p.) there was a substantial loss in the concentration of 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIA) in cortex and hippocampus. [3H]-paroxetine binding was also decreased by 27% in the cortex, indicating that the amine loss reflected a neurodegenerative change. MDMA (5 mg kg-1, i.p.) was without effect on brain 5-HT content. content.7. A single dose of MDA (5 mg kg-1, i.p.) produced a major (approximately 40%) loss of 5-HT content of cortex and hippocampus 7 days later. The loss was similar in males and females.8 These data demonstrate that female DA rats are more susceptible to the acute hyperthermic effects ofMDMA, probably because of impaired N-demethylation and indicate that in human subjects acuteMDMA-induced toxicity may be exacerbated in poor metabolizer phenotypes. Low debrisoquine hydroxylase activity did not appear to impair the formation of a MDMA or MDA neurotoxic metabolite. Both severe acute hyperthermia and delayed neurotoxicity occurred following plasma levels of MDMA comparable to those reported in persons misusing the drug.
Experiments were conducted to investigate the effect of activated T cells on the blood-nerve barrier (BNB) in experimental allergic neuritis (EAN). T cells reactive to the P2 component of myelin (P2 T cells) and known to cause EAN were injected into the sciatic nerve of Lewis rats. Animals were then given daily intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of serum with known demyelinating activity (rabbit EAN serum) or control serum. Serial nerve conduction studies across the injected segment were performed and nerves were removed at various stages for histology. Focal conduction block and perivascular demyelination were evidence in T cell injected nerves of animals treated with EAN serum. In animals treated with control serum no conduction block was seen and only perivascular infiltrates without demyelination were present. Similar results were obtained with T cells reactive to non-neural antigens, although the effect was less marked. Systemically administered rabbit immunoglobulin (Ig) was demonstrated within the endoneurium of P2 T cell injected nerves by immunofluorescence and the endoneurial blood vessels showed increased permeability to circulating horseradish peroxidase (HRP). These findings demonstrate that activated T cells cause focal breakdown of the BNB, allowing circulating antimyelin antibody to enter the endoneurium with consequent focal demyelination. P2 reactive EAN producing T cells do not cause significant demyelination when injected intraneurally (i.n.) in the absence of circulating antimyelin antibody. Intraneural injection of tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) yielded similar results, causing conduction block and perivascular demyelination in the presence of circulating antimyelin antibody but not in control serum treated animals.
Transcranial Doppler ultrasound of middle cerebral arteries (MCAs) was used to detect asymptomatic embolic signals in a prospective study in patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Recording from each artery for 20 min, embolic signals were more common ipsilateral to symptomatic arteries (eight of 38) than ipsilateral to asymptomatic arteries (one of 28, P = 0.04), or than in the MCAs of age-matched normal controls (none of 52, P &lt; 0.005). Recording a subgroup of patients revealed that previously embolic-signal negative symptomatic stenoses frequently became embolic-signal positive when recording was repeated on another day. Including all recording periods (mean time: symptomatic 36.2 min, asymptomatic 46.2 min) embolic signals were detected ipsilateral to 13 of 38 symptomatic stenoses but only one of 28 asymptomatic stenoses (P = 0.003). In symptomatic subjects with embolic signals, median number of signals per hour was three (mean 26). One month following carotid endarterectomy embolic signals were not detected except in one patient who continued to experience frequent amaurosis fugax; in this patient following aspirin both symptoms and embolic signals were abolished. These studies suggest asymptomatic embolic signals correlate with clinical risk. Outcome studies are required to determine whether embolic signal detection may allow prediction of stroke risk and monitoring of the effectiveness of therapy. The technique may also prove useful in studying the pathophysiology of cerebral embolism.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is the epitome of a subcortical dementia process. Due to its relative rarity, there is only a small literature on the neuropsychological consequences of PSP. The findings to date demonstrate that PSP patients have dramatically slowed information processing and motor execution, rapid forgetting, problems in orienting attentional resources, and difficulty in planning and shifting conceptual sets. The pattern and severity of these deficits are unique to PSP and suggest that the study of PSP patients can provide a special insight into brain-behavior relations.
Lewy Body Variant (LBV) patients present as Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinically; about two-thirds also have mild extrapyramidal features. At autopsy, neocortical and brain stem Lewy bodies are present in addition to changes diagnostic of AD. We have found that the Apolipoprotein E4 allele is a major genetic risk factor for LBV as it is for &quot;pure AD,&quot; in contrast to subjects with diffuse Lewy body disease or Parkinson's disease. This genetic evidence supports the concept that LBV--the second most common neurodegenerative form of dementia--is a phenotypic variant of AD.
The paper differentiates argument structure from other levels of representation and uses linguistic analysis of aphasic narrative production to support an enriched lexical entry for verbs that includes the d-structure representation of the configuration of the verb, its arguments, and any other lexically selected material. A single narrative production study and portions of two follow-up studies are presented. The argument structure distributions for two agrammatics (with varying degrees of fluency) and a nonagrammatic conduction aphasic with anomia are compared and contrasted with both matched controls and each other.
Senile plaques, a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), contain amyloid beta-peptide (A beta), which is generated from the larger amyloid beta protein precursor (APP). In addition to APP, several APP-related proteins have been recently identified in different organisms, including Drosophila amyloid precursor protein-like protein (APPL). Deficiency of APPL causes behavioral deficits in Drosophila, implicating a role in brain function. Moreover, mouse and human cDNA clones encoding amyloid precursor-like proteins (APLP1 and APLP2) have been identified and exhibit extensive sequence similarity to the APPL and APP genes. To define the potential role of APLP in the mammalian brain, we sought to directly localize APLP1 within the complex cortical synaptic structure. We focused on the postsynaptic density (PSD), which appears to be central to synaptic function. We now report that the 90 kDa APLP1, the first known APLP, is localized to the PSD from rat and human cerebral cortex. APLP1 increased during cortical synaptic development, suggesting a role in synaptogenesis or synaptic maturation. In contrast, APP was predominantly expressed in the synaptic membrane fraction, but was barely detectable in the PSD, including different subcellular distributions of APP and APLP1. Our observations raise the possibility that APLP1, a homologue of APPL, which appears to be necessary for normal behavior in Drosophila, participates in brain synaptic function in mammals.
To understand the up-regulation of neuronal nicotinic cholinergic receptors (nAcChRs) that results from chronic in vivo treatment with nicotine, we studied the effect of nicotine on [3H]nicotine binding sites on PC 12 cells. PC 12 cells were grown in nicotine hemisulfate (10(-6) to 10(-3) M) or vehicle for 7 days, and specific [3H]nicotine binding was measured. Nicotine (10(-6) to 10(-4) M) dose-dependently increased specific binding by up to 2.6-fold over basal levels in 5-7 days, whereas a 10(-3) M concentration failed to do so. In contrast, [3H]nicotine binding to PC 12 cell mutants (A126.1B2 and A123.7), deficient in cAMP-responsive protein kinase A Types I and/or II, was unaffected by nicotine. Northern gel analysis of nAcChR subunit mRNAs from wild type PC 12 cells showed that the mRNA encoding the dominant agonist-binding subunit, alpha 3, was significantly reduced by nicotine, as early as 4 h after treatment, whereas mRNA for the structural beta 2 subunit was slightly increased. In contrast, the alpha 3 subunit mRNA from the PC 12 cell mutant A123.7 was not significantly decreased after 4 h and 7 days of nicotine treatment. These studies indicate that nicotine up-regulates expression of nAcChRs on wild type PC 12 cells and reduces the content of alpha 3 subunit mRNA; these effects require an intact protein kinase A system. The divergent effects of nicotine on the nAcChR compared to its alpha 3 subunit mRNA suggests that enhanced expression of nicotinic receptors may not involve synthesis of new receptor subunit proteins.


A large Sicilian kinship in which myotonic dystrophy (DM) affected spanning four generations is presented. The pedigree clearly illustrates the phenomenon of anticipation, and illustrates that this phenomenon is more marked when transmission occurs through an affected female rather than an affected male. The pedigree is interpreted in light of recent genetic advances in DM. Neurosurgeons and neurologists should consider a diagnosis of DM when asked to evaluate a floppy infant with enlarged lateral ventricles, and should be aware of special features regarding its inheritance pattern.
As part of the Continuing Quality Improvement Study, phase I, 12 pediatric neurosurgeons participated in a discussion group to respond to the various issues related to selection of ventriculoperitoneal shunt systems in their practice. It was estimated that between then all the 12 participants performed approximately 1200 shunt procedures per year in the USA. The data were analyzed by grid and fish-bone charts as part of the data collection. All 12 participants indicated that they preferred a reservoir in the shunt system, 8 of them indicating that they preferred this for a manual test of the system. Three indicated that they did not routinely manipulate the system for testing. One participant stated that he placed a reservoir within the shunt system primarily to prevent migration of the ventricular catheter. Nine neurosurgeons indicated that they employed cranial valves in their shunt systems, and three indicated that they employed slit-end peritoneal catheters only. In reference to Delta valves, nine participants indicated that they employed them on occasions. In reference to pressure in the valve system, one participant employed high-pressure valves at all times, five employed only medium-pressure systems, and the remaining six always employed low-pressure valves. All 12 neurosurgeons stated that the incidence of symptomatic slit ventricle in their practices was between 1% and 5%, in their mind irrespective of the system used. It was concluded that any form of ventriculoperitoneal shunt, with or without valves, with slit-end valves or cranial valves seemed to work equally well in the hands of a dedicated pediatric neurological surgeon.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. In investigating the communication paths between target tissue and neurons we have been led to propose two classes of neurotrophic factors. One comprises the factors which transport themselves, the other factors relying on the transport of a second messenger. The former may have labile second messenger systems necessitating the translocation of agonist and receptor from the nerve terminal to the cell body and the latter must possess a stable second messenger system that itself is sufficiently robust to survive the transport to the cell body. 2. One such class of stable messengers may be the GTP-binding protein family and it has been shown that the alpha subunits of both Gi alpha and Gz alpha can be retrogradely transported in the mouse sciatic nerve. 3. Examination of the cell bodies in the dorsal root ganglia revealed that Gz alpha accumulated in the nucleus of cells with intact axons but that 24 h after axonal ligation this immunoreactivity decreased. 4. It is suggested that Gz is activated at the nerve terminal and it, or at least its alpha subunit, undergoes retrograde transport to the cell body where it accumulates in the nucleus.
The present study provides clear clinico-anatomical evidence for localization of the spatial vision pathway. We report the case of a 29-year-old woman with severe spatial vision impairment. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed distinct bilateral and symmetrical occipito-parietal damage. The right lesion affected the superior parietal lobule, the dorsolateral portion of the occipital lobe, the precuneus, and the cuneus. The left lesion affected the superior parietal lobule, the dorsolateral portion of the occipital lobe, the precuneus, an upper part of the cuneus, and the posterior portion of the middle and inferior temporal gyri.
In frogs, retinal information projecting to the ipsilateral optic tectum uses a complex, at least bi-synaptic, route. Ipsilateral visual units recorded at the tectal level correspond to isthmic axon terminals. For a better approach of their visual function, these units have been stimulated with moving (V = 7.6 degrees/sec) configurational stimuli proved earlier to be able to elicit classical behavioural sequences in amphibians. In the presence of W(&quot;worm-like&quot;)-stimuli of increasing length (2 degrees &lt; L &lt; 20 degrees), the discharge rate of type I1 units remains rather constant. In response to A(&quot;antiworm-like&quot;)-stimuli, the discharge rate first increases up to L = 5-6 degrees and then decreases continuously. The ability of these units to discriminate bars of equal dimension but of different configuration was defined using the &quot;contrast-like&quot; formula originally proposed by Ewert et al. (1978). The relationship between the discrimination factor D(W, A) and the length of the stimuli is similar in shape to that found in class R3 ganglion cells. Results suggest thus that the classical functional homology between type I1 ipsilateral units and class R2 retinal neurons is inadequate.

Cells within equivalence groups interact via lateral specification to determine cell fates during development in Caenorhabditis elegans and other invertebrates. Populations of cells within the developing zebrafish have features similar to those of invertebrate equivalence groups. In a simple example, two identified zebrafish motoneurons behave as an equivalence pair in which one cell adopts a primary fate and interactions between the cells assign the other cell to a secondary fate. A more complicated situation exists for two initially equivalent populations of zebrafish neural crest cells. We consider whether mechanisms similar to those involved in fate specification within invertebrate equivalence groups also function furing fate specification in vertebrates.
Traditionally, synchronous firing of neurons has been considered to be an epiphenomenon of neuronal networks, reflecting particular properties of circuitry, but having no functional relevance. In the past few years, an alternative view has been advocated, which suggests that temporal correlations serve a role in information processing by expressing relations among the responses of distributed neurons. This hypothesis has received experimental support from recent in vivo studies performed on the sensory systems of a variety of species. These results support earlier proposals that correlated activity might have an important function in sensory-motor integration and memory.
Network oscillations are postulated to be instrumental for synchronizing the activity of anatomically distributed populations of neurons. Results from recent studies on the physiology of cortical interneurons suggest that through their interconnectivity, they can maintain large-scale oscillations at various frequencies (4-12 Hz, 40-100 Hz and 200 Hz). We suggest that networks of inhibitory interneurons within the forebrain impose co-ordinated oscillatory 'contexts' for the 'content' carried by networks of principal cells. These oscillating inhibitory networks may provide the precise temporal structure necessary for ensembles of neurons to perform specific functions, including sensory binding and memory formation.
Recent physiological experiments suggest that several basic receptive field properties of neurons show non-uniform spatial distributions in the primary auditory cortex of cats and primates. The spatial distribution patterns of some of these receptive field parameters are suggestive of a parallel coding scheme for processing sound information onto several superimposed cortical 'maps'. The representations of these parameters in the auditory cortex are compatible with general features of self-organizing mapping algorithms, as the spatial representations exhibit global parameter gradients with overlaid functional patchiness. Recent studies have also revealed that within a 'representational' map, the degree of local coherence varies over a wide range and that the map can contain a substantial degree of disorder in its parametric representation of sounds. Although the causes and consequences of this representational disorder are not known, it may reflect yet unresolved organizational principles in the auditory cortex.
Recent work on the mammalian olfactory system shows that sensory neurons expressing the same type of odor receptor converge their axons onto one or a few glomeruli. This nearly one-to-one correspondence between an odor receptor type and an olfactory glomerulus gives rise to the tuning specificity of bulbar mitral and tufted cells, such that individual cells are only activated by a range of odor molecules having a similar chemical structure. These findings now make it possible to analyze the molecular mechanisms involved in the functional differentiation of sensory neurons, as well as those involved in their specific connections with bulbar neurons.
OP-1, also known as BMP-7, is a member of the TGF-beta superfamily of proteins and was originally identified on the basis of its ability to induce new bone formation in vivo. OP-1 mRNA is found in the developing kidney and adrenal gland as well as in some brain regions (Ozkaynak et al. [1991] Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 179:116-123). We have tested the effect of recombinant human OP-1 on quail trunk neural crest cultures. The number of catecholamine-positive cells which developed after 7 days in vitro in the presence of OP-1 was increased in a dose-dependent manner, with a greater than 100-fold maximal stimulation observed. The increase in the number of catecholamine-positive cells in the presence of OP-1 was paralleled by an increase in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells. In contrast, total and melanocyte cell number were unaffected by the presence of OP-1. The number of Islet-1-immunoreactive cells was also increased by OP-1, but to only about half the value seen for TH. Double label experiments revealed these Islet-1-positive cells were a subset of the TH-positive cells. Inhibitors of DNA synthesis prevented the OP-1-mediated increase in adrenergic cell number, indicating that OP-1 does not act on a postmitotic cell population. However, labeling studies with bromodeoxyuridine indicated that OP-1 did not increase the proportion of the cell population engaged in DNA synthesis. Thus, the OP-1-mediated increase in adrenergic cell number most likely occurs as a result of the enhanced survival of a subpopulation of adrenergic precursors or an increase in their probability of adrenergic differentiation, but not by increasing the mitotic rate of adrenergic precursors or adrenergic cells themselves. In contrast to OP-1, TGF-beta 1 decreased adrenergic cell number. When OP-1 and TGF-beta 1 were added simultaneously, TGF-beta 1 antagonized the OP-1-mediated increase in adrenergic cell number in a dose-dependent manner.
Adult rat sympathetic neurons can possess specific neuropeptides utilized as cotransmitters along with norepinephrine, but the factors that regulate their expression remain unknown. 60% of adult rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neurons express neuropeptide Y (NPY) in vivo. To determine whether the restricted expression was an intrinsic property of sympathetic ganglia, we examined if embryonic sympathetic precursors gave rise to NPY immunoreactive (-IR) neurons in vitro. After one week in culture, 60% of neurons derived from the E14.5 rat SCG were NPY-IR. Thus, ganglia isolated before peripheral target contact or preganglionic innervation were capable of regulating NPY expression both in the number of neurons with NPY and in the developmental timing of NPY expression. To determine if the restricted expression of NPY was a reflection of neuroblasts committed to an NPY fate, SCG precursors were labeled with a replication incompetent retrovirus carrying lacZ, and NPY expression in lacZ-labeled clones examined after one week. Two thirds of neuronal clones obtained were uniformly NPY-IR; that is, all neurons in a clone either possessed or lacked NPY. One-third of the neuronal clones were mixed and contained both neurons with and without NPY. We provide a novel demonstration that both lineage and environmental cues contribute to neuropeptide phenotype.
Fifteen out of 25 successfully aged individuals completed a 5 year EEG follow-up study from the eighth to ninth decade of life with comprehensive neuropsychological investigation. One subject suffered from stroke and one developed symptoms of dementia during the follow-up. Of 13 subjects who completed the follow-up as being healthy, MRI showed subtle enlargement of ventricles or subarachnoid spaces and mild signal hyperintensities in a few regions in 2 subjects. General cognitive decline was not observed (WAIS-R IQ: 113.4 at entry, 114.3 five years later). There were no EEG dominant frequencies below 8 c-sec and no more background slowing than a few theta waves per 10 sec, either at entry or 5 years later. Intermittent slowing was observed in 9 subjects at entry and in 8 subjects 5 years later. The prevalence of intermittent slowing was suggested to increase with advancing age when compared to previous studies with younger elderly. However, intermittent slowing occurred only a few times in an EEG test and lasted for less than 2 sec. Moreover, the presence of intermittent slowing did not correlate with any neuropsychological decline or any MRI change. This type of intermittent slowing was regarded as non-specific and clinically silent.
The impact of various gonadotropic hormones on the growth and development of secondary follicles from primordial and primary follicles obtained by enzymatic dissociation of the ovaries of immature 14-day-old rats was studied in vitro. The substratum-adherent culture technique developed for studying folliculogenesis in the current study permitted direct visualization of follicular growth on a day to day basis by avoiding the cumbersome process of fixing and sectioning follicles in culture. The cultures were maintained in a serum-free modified McCoy's medium in a humidified atmosphere containing 5% CO2 at 37 C. Daily observation of the culture dishes under the phase contrast microscope revealed that the follicles grew and developed from primordial to primary and secondary follicular stages in the presence of FSH. Large antral follicles were able to secrete estradiol and progesterone into the medium, indicating that the follicles are not merely formed by cellular reorganization, but are physiologically functional competent units. The organized release of the oocyte with accompanying corona radiata was made possible in some secondary follicles with large antral structures by introducing LH into the culture medium. However, introduction of hCG (which has the biological properties of LH) into the cultures on day 1 resulted in follicular degeneration within 3-4 days of culture. Follicular organization was also disrupted when LH was introduced together with FSH into the medium on day 1 of culture. Primordial or primary follicles obtained from the ovaries could survive, but could not transform to secondary follicles in the absence of FSH. The results of our in vitro studies indicate, and therefore are in agreement with earlier in vivo studies, that FSH alone is essential for the progression of folliculogenesis to the preovulatory condition, and that LH is essential for the organized expulsion of the oocyte from a mature follicle. Our technique, described in the current study, for producing physiologically functional secondary follicles in culture not only allows progress in folliculogenesis to be monitored very closely, but also serves as a model for studying the various intrinsic factors that may be involved in the successful development of dominant mature Graafian follicles that can finally ovulate. It also facilitates access to the growing follicle along with its oocyte, which can, therefore, be used as a powerful model to study the effects of various test substances on follicular development.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The lack of PRL synthesis in Ames dwarf mice coincides with a marked reduction in dopamine (DA) and in numbers of PRL-inhibiting tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons in the hypothalamus (catecholaminergic area A12), as assessed by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity. This DA/TH deficit develops postnatally and can be prevented by PRL replacement initiated at 12 days of age. The present study tested whether a similar PRL treatment in adult dwarfs would reverse the A12 deficit, indicating that these neurons are quiescent due to absent PRL feedback stimulation, or would not reverse the deficit, suggesting that A12 neurons are either absent or refractory to PRL effect. At 60 days of age, Ames dwarf (df/df) mice received renal pituitary allografts from normal (DF/df) donors as a source of mouse PRL. Separate groups of dwarfs were treated sequentially with ovine PRL (50 micrograms/day, ip; 30 days) and vehicle (15 days) to assess whether the putative restorative effect of PRL regressed after hormone withdrawal. Brains were evaluated using DA histofluorescence and TH immunocytochemistry. Total numbers of TH-immunostained cells in A12 and medial zona incerta (area A13) regions were counted, and the intensity of TH immunostaining was assessed by computerized image analysis. The total A12 TH-positive cell number was reduced (P &lt; 0.01) in all PRL-treated dwarfs (1826 +/- 58) compared with that in normal mice (3340 +/- 180), and was not different from that in untreated dwarfs (1953 +/- 304) regardless of the PRL regimen. However, A12 perikarya in all PRL-treated dwarfs showed qualitatively increased histofluorescence and quantitatively increased TH immunostaining (P &lt; 0.01) intensity compared with that in untreated dwarfs, an effect that regressed after ovine PRL withdrawal. Neither cell number nor staining intensity differed by gender. There were no significant differences in A13 cell numbers or staining intensity according to phenotype or PRL treatment. The present results indicate that the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neuronal population in adult Ames dwarf mice is permanently reduced, although extant A12 cells in dwarfs are responsive to either homologous or heterologous PRL feedback. Together with the previously reported effect of PRL treatment in neonatal dwarfs, the reduction appears to be the result of absent PRL stimulation during development.
To clarify the neural mechanisms involved in blood pressure regulation during head-up tilting (HUT), arterial baroreflex controls for heart rate and muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) were evaluated by applying frequency transfer function and coherence analyses to the equidistant time series data of RR-interval, MSNA and mean blood pressure during graded HUT in six healthy subjects. Coherence analysis indicated that the RR-interval and MSNA were linked linearly with mean blood pressure in the low (0.07-0.12 Hz) and high (0.23-0.27 Hz) frequency domains. Arterial baroreflex gain for the heart rate decreased significantly during HUT, while the baroreflex gain for MSNA showed no significant change. These results indicate that the preserved arterial baroreflex gain for MSNA plays an important role in maintaining blood pressure during orthostasis.
Role of CD45 in B cell antigen receptor (BcR)-mediated signaling events in mature B cells was examined using BAL-17 and its CD45-negative clones. In the CD45-negative clones, BcR stimulation induced tyrosine phosphorylation almost identical to the parental cells, with a few exceptions of reduced phosphorylation, especially of a protein of about 60 kDa. BcR-induced calcium responses were reduced in the CD45-negative clones, but the kinetics were similar to the parent. BcR stimulation led to growth inhibition in the parental cells, but signals for growth inhibition were completely blocked in the CD45-negative clones. Interestingly, the same stimulation induced low, but significant levels of apoptosis both in the parent and in the CD45-negative clones. Thus, in mature BAL-17 cells, CD45 subtly mediate early signaling events (tyrosine phosphorylation and Ca2+ mobilization), and is absolutely required for the signaling pathway leading to growth regulation, but has limited effects on apoptosis.
In this study, we have investigated the effect of fibroblast growth factors (bFGF and FGF-5) and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on the expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in rat motoneurons in vivo and in vitro. Following sciatic nerve transection in adult rats, the levels of alpha-CGRP and beta-CGRP mRNA were up- and down-regulated respectively in axotomized motoneurons, revealed by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Local administration of 1 microgram bFGF was able to entirely abolish the up-regulation of alpha-CGRP mRNA, and to further down-regulate beta-CGRP. These effects, albeit less pronounced, were still evident with 0.2 micrograms bFGF. In contrast, bFGF did not attenuate the lesion-induced decrease of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) mRNA. Administration of BDNF did not significantly alter the expression of CGRP or ChAT mRNA in axotomized motoneurons. Both alpha- and beta-CGRP mRNAs could be detected by PCR in enriched motoneuron cultures prepared from rat embryos at embryonic day 14-15. Comparing the amplification of alpha- and beta-CGRP mRNAs with that of mRNA encoding glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) in parallel samples, we found that cultures treated with FGF-5 had a lower ratio of alpha- and beta-CGRP mRNA to GAPDH mRNA, than did control or BDNF-treated cultures. BDNF, on the other hand increased alpha-CGRP and decreased beta-CGRP mRNA levels, though these effects were moderate compared with the effects of FGF-5. The results obtained in this study suggest that members of the FGF family of growth factors influence the expression of CGRP in rat motoneurons, and that the increase of this neuropeptide induced by axotomy may, at least in part, be due to deprivation of these target-derived factors.
In contrast to the acute toxic effect of NMDA on mature cerebellar granule cells, chronic treatment with NMDA (140 microM from 1 to 9 days in vitro) did not compromise cell survival. Such treatment markedly suppressed NMDA receptor activity: at 8 days in vitro NMDA-induced 45Ca2+ influx was reduced by approximately 60% and acute exposure to NMDA (highest concentration tested, 1 mM) at 9 days in vitro did not cause detectable toxicity. The reduction in NMDA receptor activity was accompanied by a significant decrease (approximately 80% at 9 days in vitro) in the level of the NR1 and the NR2A NMDA receptor subunit protein, detected using the selective photoaffinity ligand [125I]CGP55802A. It seems, therefore, that the agonist-induced decrease in NMDA receptor activity is due to receptor down-regulation. In contrast to the marked influence of chronic NMDA exposure on the cellular content of the NMDA receptor subunit proteins, mRNA levels of the different subunits (NR1, NR2A, NR2B and NR2C) were not significantly affected. It seems, therefore, that agonist-induced down-regulation of the NMDA receptor involves critically mRNA translation and/or post-translational regulation.
Oxidative stress, induced by hydrogen peroxide, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. Only scarce information is available if and how hydrogen peroxide, a side product of catecholamine (CA) breakdown, interferes with CAergic neurotransmission. Therefore, we investigated the effect of hydrogen peroxide on the release of [3H]dopamine (DA) and [3H]noradrenaline (NA) from rat striatal and cortical tissue slices, respectively. Hydrogen peroxide (0.01-1 mM) stimulated the spontaneous release of [3H]DA from striatal slices. Its effect on [3H]NA release from cortical slices, however, was much smaller than on DA release and occurred only in concentrations above 0.1 mM. Furthermore, only in concentrations of 1 mM or higher did a stimulation of spontaneous release of radioactivity from striatal slices incubated with [3H]choline occur. Omission of calcium significantly enhanced the effect on DA release, and an increase of calcium significantly reduced it. Blockade of vesicular storage with reserpine (0.3 microM) almost completely abolished [3H]DA release induced by hydrogen peroxide. Following incubation of striatal slices with [3H]NA in the presence of the NA (re)uptake blocker desmethylimipramine (0.3 microM), NA release was observed at a concentration (0.1 mM) at which no effect occurred in cortical slices. Moreover, under these conditions [3]NA and [3H]DA release from striatal slices reached comparable levels. Our results show that hydrogen peroxide induces a nonexocytotic release of DA and NA by interfering with the vesicular uptake and/or storage of these CAs. However, the striatal DA storage system, irrespective of the presence of either DA or NA, appeared to be substantially more sensitive to this effect than its cortical equivalent for storage of NA.
Pre-mated adult female newts and embryos have been flown on the International Microgravity Laboratory-2 (IML-2) Space Shuttle flight in 1994 (Wiederhold et al., 1992b). With the specimens available from this flight, the calcification of otoliths, ulna, radius and backbone of the flown larvae and adult newts were analyzed. The experiments presented here studied the development of the otoliths on the ground. Otoliths of living newts, from embryo to adult, were observed in situ with the application of a new X-ray and bio-imaging analyzer system. For the establishment of this method, newts at different developmental stages were used. An imaging plate temporarily stores the X-ray energy pattern at the bio-imaging analyzer. A latent image on the imaging plate was transformed into a digital time series signal with an image reader. Acquired digital information was computed with the image processor. The processed information was recorded on film with an image recorder, in order to visualize it on an enlargement computed radiograph. To analyze development of the otoliths, photo-stimulated luminescence level was detected by an image analyzer, using transmitted X-ray photons. A single clump of otoconia could first be seen at stage 33. Stage-36 embryos first have distinguishable otoliths, with the utricle in front and saccule behind. Our results show that this X-ray method detects the otoliths equally as well as sectioning. In the newt, the mandibular/maxillary bone formed before the spine. It is suspected that for the newt embryo, living in water, feeding becomes necessary prior to support of the body.
The role of taurine in the process of neuronal migration was studied in a microwell cell culture system. Immunocytochemical analysis of the cellular composition of this culture system revealed the presence of the astrocytic marker GFAP in some structures such as the aggregates of neuronal bodies and in those cables used for migration, resembling what is described in vivo. The neuronal marker gamma-enolase stained practically all structures, including the aggregates and all cables. The intracellular taurine concentration was reduced by 60% in mouse cerebellar granule cells treated with a blocker of taurine transport, guanidinoethane sulfonate (GES). Under these conditions cell migration was markedly reduced to approximately 50% of that in untreated cultures. Both, taurine depletion and impairment of cell migration induced by GES were prevented by adding taurine to the culture medium. Taurine deficiency similarly affected different morphological parameters such as the number of cables suitable for neuronal migration as well as the number of migrating neurons. The number of aggregates of neuronal bodies was significantly increased, by about 30%, as a consequence of the reduced migration. Taurine alone did not exert any effect on the parameters evaluated. GES treatment of granule cells did not affect mitochondrial metabolism or K(+)-stimulated Ca(2+)-dependent [3H]-D-aspartate release. This suggests that the described effects of taurine deficiency were not due to an alteration of neuronal viability and that the action of GES was not simply due to unspecific and deleterious effects. These results are in agreement with those obtained in in vivo studies. This approach represents a useful model to investigate the role played by taurine in the process of neuronal migration.
Fast axonal transport of radiolabeled protein was examined in lumbar and tail dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons at progressive stages of bullfrog tadpole metamorphosis. Accumulation of [35S]methionine-labeled protein proximal to a lumbar peripheral nerve ligature (at a fixed distance from the DRG) increased as tadpoles advanced from premetamorphosis through prometamorphosis to metamorphic climax. The rate of increase was steeper when expressed as a percentage of protein synthesized in the neurons of origin than when expressed as a percentage of total DRG protein synthesis. Further, the increase was not secondary to a rise in protein synthesis. In contrast, fast axonal transport decreased in DRG neurons of the tail at the onset of metamorphic climax, when tail resorption is initiated. The stage-related increase in protein transport in lumbar nerves is due, at least in part, to an increased rate of transport. As determined from optically detected anterograde organelles in individual lumbar nerve axons, an approximate doubling of the fast transport rate occurred between the premetamorphic stage and metamorphic climax. In addition, the rates of organelle transport in lumbar axons of adult bullfrogs were significantly greater than in corresponding axons of tadpoles at metamorphic climax, further suggesting that organelle velocity is a developmentally regulated parameter of fast axonal transport.
The influence of age on the late retrograde effects of unilateral sciatic nerve section was investigated in rats. Operations were performed on young rats aged 3 months and older rats aged 15 and 18 months, with survival times ranging from 6 to 15 months depending upon age at the time of operation. As in previous studies, axonal atrophy was found in myelinated fibres proximal to nerve transection. This was observed to be greater in animals operated upon at 3 months of age than in those in which the sciatic nerve was transected at 15 and 18 months. In the sciatic nerve, focal intramyelinic oedema was present at a low frequency on the operated side just proximal to the section at all survival times but not on the unoperated side except in 1 old animal. Its frequency increased with age both in the dorsal and ventral roots on both sides but it was not more common on the operated side. Retrograde axonal atrophy is therefore unlikely to contribute to its occurrence. In the dorsal root ganglia the main abnormality was the presence of vacuolated neurons on the operated side. Nuclear eccentricity was also observed on the operated side in young animals in a proportion of the neurons; its frequency increased with age on the normal side and there was no difference in the older animals between operated and control sides. The possibility is discussed that growth factor deprivation secondary to axotomy is implicated in these changes. If so, there are age differences in its effect in giving rise to axonal atrophy and neuronal vacuolation.
Calcium flux is required for the mammalian sperm acrosome reaction, an exocytotic event triggered by egg binding, which results in a dramatic rise in sperm intracellular calcium. Calcium-dependent membrane fusion results in the release of enzymes that facilitate sperm penetration through the zona pellucida during fertilization. We have characterized inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3)-gated calcium channels and upstream components of the phosphoinositide signaling system in mammalian sperm. Peptide antibodies colocalized G alpha q/11 and the beta 1 isoform of phospholipase C (PLC beta 1) to the anterior acrosomal region of mouse sperm. Western blotting using a polyclonal antibody directed against purified brain IP3 receptor (IP3R) identified a specific 260 kD band in 1% Triton X-100 extracts of rat, hamster, mouse and dog sperm. In each species, IP3R immunostaining localized to the acrosome cap. Scatchard analysis of [3H]IP3 binding to rat sperm sonicates revealed a curvilinear plot with high affinity (Kd = 26 nM, Bmax = 30 pmol/mg) and low affinity (Kd = 1.6 microM, Bmax = 550 pmol/mg) binding sites, reflecting among the highest receptor densities in mammalian tissue. Immunoelectron microscopy confirmed the acrosomal localization in rat sperm. The IP3R fractionated with acrosomes by discontinuous sucrose gradient centrifugation and was enriched in the medium of acrosome-reacted sperm. ATP-dependent 45Ca2+ loading of digitonin permeabilized rat sperm was decreased by 45% in the presence of 10 microM IP3. The IP3-mediated release of calcium was blocked by heparin. Thapsigargin, a sequiterpene lactone inhibitor of the microsomal Ca(2+)-ATPase, stimulated the acrosome reaction of mouse sperm to the same extent as the Ca2+ ionophore, A23187. The failure of caffeine and ryanodine to affect calcium accumulation suggested that thapsigargin acted through an IP3-sensitive store. The presence of G alpha q/11, PLC beta 1 and a functional IP3R in the anterior acrosomal region of mammalian sperm, as well as thapsigargin's induction of the acrosome reaction, implicate IP3-gated calcium release in the mammalian acrosome reaction.


The occurrence of the endogenous receptor antagonist for the cytokine interleukin-1 in the rat adrenal gland was analyzed y polymerase chain reaction and by immunohistochemistry using a rabbit polyclonal antiserum. Expression of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist mRNA was demonstrated in both adrenal medulla and cortex, and a marked increase in the transcription was observed after systemic administration of lipopolysaccharides. Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist immunoreactivity was seen in the adrenal medulla, and the immunofluorescence intensity was stronger in the adrenergic, phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase-positive cells than in the noradrenergic chromaffin cells. The distribution of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist protein is complementary to that of interleukin-1 alpha-like immunoreactivity found in phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase-negative cells and overlaps with and resembles the distribution of interleukin-1 beta-immunoreactive material. The expression of the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist in the adrenal gland complements previous findings of large constitutive pools of interleukin-1 alpha and interleukin-1 beta in this neuroendocrine organ and also suggests participation of adrenal interleukin-1 receptor antagonist in neuroimmune modulation.
Previous studies have suggested that both major active metabolites of testosterone, estradiol (E2) and dihydrotestosterone (DHT), are needed for complete masculinization of the brain regions that control song in passerine birds. However, DHT treatment of hatchling female zebra finches has only small masculinizing effects on the song system. To assess whether E2 and DHT have a synergistic effect on the masculinization of the zebra finch song system, female zebra finches were given Silastic implants of E2 on the day of hatching (day 1) either without any additional hormone treatment or in combination with DHT on days 1, 14, or 70. At 105 to 110 days of age, we measured the volumes of Area X, higher vocal center (HVC), robust nucleus of the archistriatum (RA), soma sizes in HVC, RA, and the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the neostriatum (IMAN), and neuron density and number in RA. E2 masculinized all of the measures in the song system with the exception of the number of neurons in RA. DHT did not synergize with E2 to produce any additional masculinization of the attributes measured. These data demonstrate that the combination of E2 and DHT did not result in the complete masculinization of the song control nuclei and argue against the importance of androgen in sexual differentiation of the song system.
The higher vocal center (HVC) of the songbird forebrain exhibits persistent neurogenesis in adulthood, particularly in a region of the mediocaudal neostriatum that is associated with a subventricular layer of estrogen receptive cells. We asked whether estrogens might influence adult neurogenesis, by assessing the effect of ovariectomy on HVC neuronal production in the adult female canary. Fifteen 1-year-old females were separated into groups of ovariectomized, estradiol-replaced ovariectomized, and gonadally intact birds. To label dividing cells and their progeny, the birds were given [3H]thymidine for 8 days, killed 32 days later, and their brains autoradiographed. A significant rise was noted in the number of HVC neurons per section in estradiol-treated birds relative to the untreated control birds. The number of [3H]thymidine-labeled HVC neurons was also higher in the estrogen-treated birds; however, the neuronal labeling index (LI) did not vary as a function of estradiol replacement, as the total number of HVC neurons rose in parallel with the added new neurons. In contrast, the neuronal LI did rise as a result of ovariectomy, and this ovariectomy-associated increase in the LI was not reversed by estradiol. Among non-neuronal cell types, the endothelial LI was higher in estrogen-treated birds than in their untreated counterparts, suggesting estrogen-associated angiogenesis. Radioimmunoassay confirmed that serum estradiol was reduced in the castrated birds. Since estrogen appeared to promote the survival of [3H]thymidine+ neurons, we next sought to determine whether estrogen acted directly on the newly generated neurons, or rather indirectly through an intermediary cell population. To this end, we asked whether the new neurons or their precursors expressed estrogen receptor immunoreactivity (ER-IR). Five adult male canaries were given [3H]thymidine for periods ranging from 2 to 28 days, killed at varying times up to 3 weeks thereafter, then probed for ER-IR and autoradiographed. [3H]thymidine+ cells displayed no detectable ER-IR within their first 4 weeks of postmitotic life. Rather, during migration from the ventricular zone (VZ), the new neurons traversed a layer of mitotically quiescent, ER+ subventricular cells. Double labeling for ER-IR and cell-type selective antigens confirmed that these ER+ cells were neurons. These results indicate that the early survival of new neurons in the adult songbird HVC is promoted by estrogen, and may be mediated by the estrogen-stimulated paracrine release of neurotrophic agents by ER-IR subventricular neurons. Our data suggest that estrogen's promotion of neuronal survival may operate concurrently with an estrogen-independent ovarian suppression of neuronal mitogenesis.
The neural retina of adult goldfish can regenerate from an intrinsic source of proliferative neuronal progenitor cells, but it is not known whether the retina can regenerate by transdifferentiation of the retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE), a phenomenon demonstrated in adult newts. In this study, we asked whether following surgical removal of the neural retina in adult goldfish the RPE was capable of autonomously transdifferentiating and generating new neural retina. The retina was prelabeled by injecting the fluorescent dye Fluoro-Gold (FG) into the eye prior to surgical removal; this procedure ensured that residual retina was labeled with FG and could therefore be distinguished from unlabeled, regenerated retina. To examine the time course of retinal regeneration, and to identify regenerated retinal neurons, the thymidine analogue bromodeoxyuridine was injected intraocularly, and retinas were examined up to 2 months later. We found that the RPE did not transdifferentiate; instead, retinas regenerated only when pieces of residual neural retina were left intact. Under these circumstances, newly regenerated cells derived from proliferating cells intrinsic to the residual neural retina. When retinas were completely removed, as was evident from a lack of FG labeling, there was no retinal regeneration.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a human neurodegenerative disorder of unknown origin that is characterized by progressive degeneration of corticospinal tracts and anterior horn cells in the brainstem and spinal cord. Previous studies have indicated that motoneuron degeneration associated with ALS may be triggered by mechanisms leading to increased intracellular Ca2+. In the present report, Ca(2+)-activated phospholipid-dependent protein kinase C (PKC) was evaluated in cervical spinal cords from ALS patients and control subjects. In patients who died with ALS, PKC histone H1 phosphotransferase activity was significantly increased by 330% in cytosolic- and 118% in particulate-derived extracts compared with controls. This increase in PKC phosphotransferase activity appeared to be partially due to an increase in the amount of PKC protein present in ALS spinal cord tissue. PKC histone H1 phosphotransferase activities of cytosolic- and particulate-derived extracts from motor and visual cortex of ALS patients and controls were not statistically different, nor were there differences in PKC histone H1 phosphotransferase activity in platelets and leukocytes. The specific nature of PKC alterations in affected regions of the CNS supports a role for PKC in the events leading to motoneuron death in sporadic ALS.
The effect of protein kinase A on the catalytic activity and phosphorylation of brain tryptophan hydroxylase was examined. Stimulation of endogenous protein kinase A by cyclic AMP or its analogues, dibutyryl-cyclic AMP and 8-thiomethyl-cyclic AMP, failed to activate tryptophan hydroxylase. The activation of tryptophan hydroxylase by calcium/calmodulin-phosphorylating conditions was not modified by cyclic AMP. Endogenous protein kinase A phosphorylated a large number of proteins and tryptophan hydroxylase could be identified as one substrate by sucrose gradient centrifugation, immunoprecipitation, and immunoblotting. These results indicate that tryptophan hydroxylase is phosphorylated by protein kinase A in brain and question whether this protein kinase exerts direct regulatory influence over tryptophan hydroxylase activity via phosphorylation.
The brain requires a ready supply of iron for normal neurological function, but free iron is toxic. Consequently, iron bioavailability must be stringently regulated. Recent evidence has suggested that the brain iron regulatory system is dysfunctional in neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases (AD and PD, respectively). A key component of the iron regulatory system in the brain is ferritin. Ferritin consists of 24 subunits, which are distinguished as either a heavy-chain (H) or light-chain (L) isoform. These peptide subunits are genetically and functionally distinct. Thus, the ability to investigate separately the types of ferritin in brain should provide insight into iron management at both the cellular and the molecular level. In this study, the ratio of isoferritins was determined in select regions of adult elderly AD and PD human brains. The H-rich ferritin was more abundant in the young brain, except in the globus pallidus where the ratio of H/L ferritin was 1:1. The balance of H/L isoferritins was influenced by age, brain region, and disease state. With normal aging, both H and L ferritin increased; however, the age-associated increase in isoferritins generally failed to occur in AD and PD brain tissue. The imbalance in H/L isoferritins was disease and region specific. For example, in frontal cortex, there was a dramatic (fivefold) increase in the ratio of H/L ferritin in AD brains but not in PD brains. In PD, caudate and putamen H/L ratios were higher than in AD and the elderly control group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Mice that are transgenic for and overexpress human copper/zinc superoxide dismutase were used to investigate the role of this enzyme in the pathophysiology of Down's syndrome (DS; trisomy 21). Previous studies have indicated that overexpression of copper/zinc superoxide dismutase leads to deficits in peripheral markers of neurochemical function, which are consistent with the hypothesis that this enzyme plays a role in the pathophysiology of DS. We have measured concentrations of amino acids and biogenic amines (catecholamines, serotonin, and their metabolites), uptake of biogenic amines into crude synaptosomes, and activities of synthetic enzymes in both control mice and mice transgenic for human copper/zinc superoxide dismutase that overexpress it by two- to fivefold above control values. We find that these transgenic mice exhibit higher concentrations of the biogenic amines in specific brain regions, with little or no change in amino acid concentration. Furthermore, tyrosine hydroxylase activity is increased in the striatum of the transgenics, whereas glutamic acid decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase activities are unchanged in all but one brain region. These findings indicate that over-expression of copper/zinc superoxide dismutase, by itself, is not sufficient to cause the synaptic neurochemical deficits reported in DS.
Histamine stimulation of bovine adrenal medullary cells rapidly activated phospholipase C. [3H]Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate [[3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3] levels were transiently increased (200% of basal values between 1 and 5 s) before declining to a new steady-state level of approximately 140% of basal values. [3H]Inositol 1,4-bisphosphate [[3H]Ins(1,4)P2] content increased to a maximal and maintained level of 250% of basal values after 1 s, whereas levels of [3H]inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate [[3H]Ins(1,3,4)P3], [3H]inositol 1,3-bisphosphate, and [3H]inositol 4-monophosphate ([3H]Ins4P) increased more slowly. The rapid responses were not reduced by the removal of extracellular Ca2+, but they were no longer sustained over time. The turnover rates of selected inositol phosphate isomers have been estimated in the intact cell. [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 was rapidly metabolized (t1/2 of 11 s), whereas the other isomers were metabolized more slowly, with t1/2 values of 113, 133, 104, and 66 s for [3H]Ins(1,3,4)P3, [3H]Ins(1,4)P2, an unresolved mixture of [3H]inositol 1- and 3-monophosphate ([3H]Ins1/3P), and [3H]Ins4P, respectively. The calculated turnover rate of [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 was sufficient to account for the turnover of the combination of both [3H]Ins(1,4)P2 and [3H]Ins(1,3,4)P3 but not that of [3H]Ins1/3P or [3H]Ins4P. These observations demonstrate that histamine stimulation of these cells results in a complex Ca(2+)-dependent and -independent response that may involve the hydrolysis of inositol phospholipids in addition to phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate.
Using in vivo microdialysis, we have characterized serotonin release from the rostral ventromedial medulla of the freely moving rat. Addition of tetrodotoxin or removal of calcium from the dialysis solution diminished the dialysate serotonin content, suggesting that spontaneous, calcium channel- and sodium channel-dependent neuronal release mechanisms contribute to the extracellular serotonin collected from the rostral ventromedial medulla. Extracellular serotonin concentration was increased by depolarization (with 100 mM potassium) and by the local administration of either a reuptake blocker (citalopram), a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (pargyline), or amphetamine. Serotonin release was reduced significantly by 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin, suggesting that serotonin1A receptors may regulate release from rostral ventromedial medulla neurons. Because the basal serotonin concentration in the rostral ventromedial medulla was approximately twofold higher than that collected from the rostral ventrolateral medulla, a region that contains serotonin terminals but many fewer cell bodies, the possibility of release of serotonin from rostral ventromedial medulla neurons is discussed. Finally, intraplantar formalin injection significantly increased serotonin release, suggesting that this neurotransmitter contributes to nociceptive modulation by regulating the outflow of the rostral ventromedial medulla neurons.
In examining steroid synthesis in the CNS, expression of the mRNAs encoding for cytochrome P450 side-chain cleavage enzyme (P450scc) and 3 beta-hydroxy-steroid dehydrogenase/delta 5-delta 4 isomerase (3 beta-HSD) has been studied in the rat brain. P450scc transforms cholesterol into pregnenolone and 3 beta-HSD transforms pregnenolone into progesterone. PCR was used to amplify cDNA sequences from total RNA extracts. Classical steroidogenic tissues, like adrenal and testis, as well as the non-steroidogenic tissue lung have been used as controls. The expression of P450scc and 3 beta-HSD have been demonstrated by PCR in cortex, cerebellum, and spinal cord. In addition, primary cultures of rat cerebellar glial cells and rat cerebellar granule cells were found to express P450scc and 3 beta-HSD at comparable levels. Furthermore, three of the four known isoenzymes of 3 beta-HSD were identified, as determined using selective PCR primers coupled with discriminative restriction enzymes and sequencing analysis of the amplified brain products. Using RNA probes, in situ hybridization indicated that P450scc and 3 beta-HSD are expressed throughout the brain at a low level and mainly in white matter. Enrichment of glial cell cultures in oligodendrocytes, however, does not increase the relative abundance of P450scc and 3 beta-HSD mRNA detected by PCR. This discrepancy suggests that the developmental state of cultured cells and their intercellular environment may be critical for regulating the expression of these enzymes. These findings support the proposal that the brain apparently has the capacity to synthesize progesterone from cholesterol, through pregnenolone, but that the expression of these enzymes appears to be quite low.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Glutamatergic synaptic dysfunction has been proposed as a causal factor in portal-systemic encephalopathy. Increased in vitro and in vivo glutamate release and decreased glutamate binding to NMDA receptors were previously reported in the brains of portacaval-shunted rats. Such changes could lead to alterations in the second messenger systems coupled to glutamate receptors. As NMDA receptors have been shown to act via the nitric oxide/cyclic GMP second messenger system, we studied the activities of constitutive nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the brains of rats following portacaval shunting. Results demonstrate that NOS activities are significantly increased in cerebellum (by 54%, p &lt; 0.01), cerebral cortex (by 65%, p &lt; 0.01), hippocampus (by 88%, p &lt; 0.01), and striatum (by 64%, p &lt; 0.01) of shunted rats compared with sham-operated controls. As L-arginine transport is a prerequisite for nitric oxide production, we also studied L-[3H]arginine transport into cerebellar and cerebral cortical synaptosomes prepared from the brains of portacaval-shunted and sham-operated rats. L-[3H]Arginine uptake was significantly increased (by approximately 50%, p &lt; 0.01) in both cerebellum and cortex. Increased NOS activities of neuronal and/or astrocytic origin and the resultant increased production of nitric oxide in brain could be the consequence of increased NMDA receptor activation following portacaval shunting. Furthermore, increased nitric oxide production could contribute to the increased cerebral blood flow consistently observed following portacaval shunting.
Cells from a human neuroblastoma cell line (SH-SY5Y) have been used to examine their potential suitability as donor cells for neural transplantation. Grafts of SH-SY5Y cells were placed in the basal ganglia of the rat brain 7 days after kainic acid lesions of the striatum. The animals were killed 4 or 8 weeks following grafting, and light and electron microscopic studies showed that the graft formed a well-vascularized compact mass of cells in the host brain. At both time points grafted cells showed evidence of cellular differentiation with process formation, especially at the graft-host interface where there was intermingling of graft and host neuronal process. Electron microscopic studies showed that graft cell processes containing irregularly-shaped, clear vesicles or membrane-bound dense core vesicles, established regions of specialized contact with other graft cells and formed close associations with host neuronal processes. There was little difference between the grafts of different ages, except that in the older grafts there were early signs of neurodegeneration. Since the SH-SY5Y cells used in these grafts express the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase and synthesize dopamine in vitro, these cells were used in the hope that they may potentially be useful for repairing lesions in the dopamine pathway, such as that seen in Parkinson's disease. Our behavioural studies show that grafting SH-SY5Y cells into the striatum of rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the median forebrain bundle result in a reduction of amphetamine-induced rotation. However, this was unlikely to be due to dopamine release since there was no tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity seen in the region of the grafts. Thus grafted human neuroblastoma cells survive, establish specialized morphological associations with graft and host processes and improve behavioural deficits resulting from 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. We suggest that grafted differentiated human neuroblastoma cells can interact with cells in the host brain with beneficial effects, and that in the medium-term, neuroblastoma grafts will make useful models for examining graft-host interactions. However, the presence of early degenerative changes in the older grafts suggests that neuroblastoma cells may not be suitable for long-term neural transplantation therapy for neurodegenerative diseases.
A patient with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) established by biopsy developed cauda equina symptoms due to swelling of the nerve roots in the lumbar spinal canal. Magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbar spine showed profoundly thickened nerve roots from the level of the conus medullaris, filling the caudal thecal sac. Immunosuppressant treatment produced partial clinical and radiological resolution. This case shows that spinal compressive syndromes may occur in acquired hypertrophic neuropathies as well as in hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy and expands the range of the clinical presentation of CIDP.


Survivors of herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) experience intellectual impairment and an inability to store and recall information. Because the temporal lobes and associated limbic structures are central to storage and retrieval of memories, and are predominantly affected in adult HSE, injury to these areas is postulated to cause behavioral and learning disabilities. A previous study (Beers et al., 1993) demonstrated that intranasal inoculation of Lewis rats with herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1) induced acute partial complex seizures, and hemorrhagic and inflammatory lesions of the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex. Consequently, it was of interest to determine whether rats that had recovered from HSE had limbic system-associated memory impairments. Therefore, rats were evaluated when signs and symptoms of encephalitis were no longer apparent using an eight arm radial maze to assess the acquisition and retention of learned information. An allocentric-spatial location paradigm revealed HSV-1 infected rats performed at chance levels on both acquisition and retention which were statistically different from sham-inoculated controls. However, using an egocentric-spatial left/right discrimination task, infected rats performed statistically similar to sham-inoculated controls. Furthermore, HSV-1 nucleic acids were detected in the nuclei of neurons within the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex using in situ hybridization techniques. Of interest was the observation that rats with learning and memory deficits had no apparent histopathological or immunocytochemical evidence of antecedent CNS infection. This is the first experimental demonstration that HSV-1 can cause behavioral impairments in the absence of obvious inflammatory injury to the temporal lobe memory system.
1. The pattern of reorganization in area 3b of adult primates after median or ulnar nerve section suggests that somatic afferents from the dorsum of the hand, carried by the radial nerve, have preferential access to the cortical territories normally expressing glabrous inputs carried by the median and ulnar nerves. A likely mechanism underlying preferential access is preexisting, but silent, radial nerve inputs to the glabrous region of cortex. 2. We tested this by comparing the effects of electrical stimulation of median or ulnar versus radial nerves, on responses in the hand representation of area 3b. Laminar current source density and multiunit activity profiles were sampled with the use of linear array multicontact electrodes spanning the laminae of area 3b. Data were obtained from three squirrel monkeys anesthetized during recording. 3. Compared with colocated median or ulnar nerve responses, the radial nerve response had 1) an initial short-latency response in the middle laminae that was subtle; there was a small transmembrane current flow component without a discernable multiunit activity correlate; and 2) a laminar sequence and distribution of activity that was similar to those of the median or ulnar nerve responses (i.e., initial activation of the middle, followed by upper and lower laminae), but the significant current flow and multiunit response to radial nerve stimulation occurs 12-15 ms later. 4. Normal corepresentation of nondominant dorsum hand (radial) inputs with the dominant (median or ulnar) inputs in the glabrous hand surface representation provides a clear vehicle for the biased patterns of reorganization occurring after peripheral nerve section. The initial, &quot;subtle&quot; activity phase in the nondominant response is believed to reflect intracortical inhibition, and the later &quot;significant&quot; response phase, a rebound excitation, possibly compounded by an indirect or extralemniscal input. The spatiotemporal pattern of nondominant input is proposed to play a role in normal somatosensory perception.
1. Humans may visually track a moving object either when they are stationary or in motion. To investigate visual-vestibular interaction during both conditions, we compared horizontal smooth pursuit (SP) and active combined eye-head tracking (CEHT) of a target moving sinusoidally at 0.4 Hz in four normal subjects while the subjects were either stationary or vibrated in yaw at 2.8 Hz. We also measured the visually enhanced vestibuloocular reflex (VVOR) during vibration in yaw at 2.8 Hz over a peak head velocity range of 5-40 degrees/s. 2. We found that the gain of the VVOR at 2.8 Hz increased in all four subjects as peak head velocity increased (P &lt; 0.001), with minimal phase changes, such that mean retinal image slip was held below 5 degrees/s. However, no corresponding modulation in vestibuloocular reflex gain occurred with increasing peak head velocity during a control condition when subjects were rotated in darkness. 3. During both horizontal SP and CEHT, tracking gains were similar, and the mean slip speed of the target's image on the retina was held below 5.5 degrees/s whether subjects were stationary or being vibrated at 2.8 Hz. During both horizontal SP and CEHT of target motion at 0.4 Hz, while subjects were vibrated in yaw, VVOR gain for the 2.8-Hz head rotations was similar to or higher than that achieved during fixation of a stationary target. This is in contrast to the decrease of VVOR gain that is reported while stationary subjects perform CEHT.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. A muscle spindle primary afferent (group Ia) was physiologically identified and labeled intracellularly with the use of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) in the cat lumbar spinal cord. Serial-section electron microscopy (EM) was used to examine and reconstruct an entire axon collateral and its branches within Clarke's column. In the present study the existence and location of presynaptic contacts on Ia afferent boutons along these collateral branches were determined from examination of the serial-section electron-micrographs. 2. Of 36 Ia boutons examined in serial sections along the branches of the same collateral, 3 presynaptic contacts were found. Two of these contacts were made with Ia boutons in a complex nodal region consisting of two unmyelinated side branches exhibiting a total of six Ia boutons. The other presynaptic contact was made with a Ia bouton in a nodal region consisting of two Ia boutons connected by a thin unmyelinated bridge. 3. Computer simulations, based directly on the serial-section-reconstructions, were used to investigate the possible effects of these presynaptic contacts on membrane potential and on a propagating action potential along the Ia collateral. The effect of a presynaptic contact was modeled by a sustained gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABAA)-activated chloride conductance. 4. The simulation results indicated that the effect of a presynaptic contact on membrane potential and action-potential amplitude is likely to extend beyond the contacted bouton to other boutons occurring along the short unmyelinated branches arising from the same node.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Performance on five behavioral tasks was assessed post-operatively in Macaca fascicularis monkeys prepared with bilateral lesions of the entorhinal cortex (E group). Three of the tasks were also readministered 9-14 months after surgery. Initial learning of the delayed nonmatching-to-sample (DNMS) task was impaired in the E animals relative to unoperated control monkeys. On the delay portion of DNMS, the performance of E animals was nearly at control levels at short delays (up to 60 sec) but was impaired at 10 min and 40 min retention intervals. On the retest of DNMS, the E animals performed normally at all retention intervals. The E animals were unimpaired on the four other memory tasks. Neuroanatomical studies revealed a significant transverse expansion of the terminal field of the perirhinal cortical projection in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Compared to unlesioned, anatomical control monkeys, the transverse length of the perirhinal terminal field in CA1 increased approximately 70% in the E monkeys. Although this was a striking morphological alteration, it is not known whether the sprouting of this projection influenced the behavioral recovery. The results of these studies suggest that the entorhinal cortex may normally participate in the learning and performance of tasks that are dependent on the medial temporal lobe memory system. However, recovery of normal DNMS performance demonstrates that the entorhinal cortex is not, by itself, essential for learning and performance of such tasks.
Norepinephrine (NE) and glutamate (Glu) initiate intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) transients, oscillations, and intracellular [Ca2+]i waves in cultured astrocytes. To further elucidate the significance of NE- and Glu-evoked astrocytic [Ca2+]i signaling to neuron-astrocyte communication in the mature CNS, [Ca2+]i of astrocyte networks within hippocampal slices (P21-42) was measured during bath application of NE and Glu receptor agonists. Astrocytes in stratum radiatum were identified by highly negative membrane potentials (75 +/- 3 mV), absence of action potentials, and dye coupling following intracellular injection of the [Ca2+]-sensitive dye calcium orange. NE (2-100 microM) evoked [Ca2+]i increases (7 of 8 slices, 24 of 24 cells in responding slices) characterized by an initial rise, 20-50 sec to peak, followed by a slower return to baseline (over approximately 8 min). The alpha 1-agonist phenylephrine (PE) (10-100 microM) evoked complex [Ca2+]i signals (22 of 26 slices, 90 of 90 cells in responding slices) composed of both a prolonged component (5.1 +/- 1.8 min), synchronized in neighboring cells, and multiple, mainly asynchronous [Ca2+]i spikes (25.0 +/- 11.6 sec). PE responses were completely blocked by the alpha 1-antagonist prazosin (200 nM, n = 4 slices), but not by the alpha 2-antagonist yohimbine (n = 3 slices). The alpha 2-agonist clonidine (10-100 microM) did not increase [Ca2+]i (n = 4 slices). alpha 1-mediated [Ca2+]i transients were observed after removal of extracellular [Ca2+]o (n = 8 of 9 slices), indicating PE-induced Ca2+ release from intracellular stores. Adrenergic responses were mediated by alpha 1-receptors localized to astrocytes because PE and NE increased [Ca2+]i of acutely isolated hippocampal astrocytes. Glu (0.75-2.0 mM) did not increase astrocytic [Ca2+]i in slices (0 of 7), even in the presence of the Glu uptake inhibitor L-trans-pyrrollidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (PDC) (0 of 5 slices), or in acutely isolated astrocytes (0 of 7 cells). The metabotropic agonist t-ACPD (30 or 50 microM) did not increase astrocytic [Ca2+]i in hippocampal slices (0 of 5), while kainate (200 microM or 1 mM) induced brief (1-2 min) [Ca2+]i increases only rarely (2 of 8 applications in 6 slices). These results support a primary role of NE release and alpha 1-adrenoceptor stimulation in neuron-astrocyte communication in the mature CNS.
The finding that some K+ channel mRNAs are restricted to certain populations of neurons in the CNS suggests that there are K+ channels tailored to certain neuronal circuits. One such example are the transcripts from the KV3.2 gene, the majority of which are expressed in thalamic relay neurons. To gain insights into the specific roles of KV3.2 subunits, site specific antibodies were raised to determine their localization in thalamic relay neurons. Immunohistochemical and focal lesioning studies demonstrate that KV3.2 proteins are localized to the terminal fields of thalamocortical projections. It is also shown that KV3.2 channels expressed in vitro are strongly inhibited through phosphorylation by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). Channels containing KV3.1 subunits, which otherwise exhibit nearly identical electrophysiological properties in heterologous expression systems but have a different and less restricted pattern of expression in the CNS, are not affected by PKA. Therefore, this modulation might be associated with the specific roles of KV3.2 subunits. Furthermore, we demonstrate that KV3.2 proteins can be phosphorylated in situ by intrinsic PKA. KV3.2 subunits display properties and have a localization consistent with a role in the regulation of the efficacy of the thalamocortical synapse, and could thereby participate in the neurotransmitter-mediated control of functional states of the thalamocortical system associated with global states of awareness.
We have developed a system for simultaneous optical recording of transients of membrane potential and intracellular calcium concentration from mammalian brain slice preparations with high spatio-temporal resolution. Simultaneous recording was achieved by using two dedicated photodetectors together with two fluorescent indicators. Specifically, the calcium-sensitive dye Calcium Orange and the voltage-sensitive dye RH-414 were selected because they have overlapping excitation spectra, but separable emission spectra. Transverse guinea pig hippocampal slices were double-loaded by bath application of the membrane-permeant form of Calcium Orange and RH-414. Transients of intracellular calcium concentration and membrane potential associated with evoked neural activity in hippocampal areas CA1 and CA3 were recorded. Furthermore, we have recorded calcium and voltage transients associated with spontaneous epileptiform activity induced by bath application of an epileptogenic drug, 4-aminopyridine. The use of photodiode matrices (10 x 10 elements each) as detectors gives the high spatial (200 x 200 microns/element with a 10 x objective) and temporal resolution (570 microseconds/frame). The recording system also includes a CCD camera for obtaining images of the preparation and overlaying the image with the optically detected signals. A software package has been developed for setting up the experimental protocol(s) and for collecting, processing, displaying, and analyzing the data in an user-friendly, windows-based environment.
A novel experimental model of stroke has been developed using the powerful vasoconstrictor peptide, endothelin-1, to occlude the middle cerebral artery (MCA) of anaesthetised rats. Intracerebral microinjections of endothelin-1 were administered under stereotaxic guidance adjacent to the MCA, and after 3 days rats were perfusion fixed for histopathological determination of ischaemic brain damage. The pattern of brain damage noted using this model was similar to that reported following permanent surgical occlusion of the MCA. Brain damage was apparent in the dorsal and lateral neocortex (98 +/- 12 mm3) and striatum (32 +/- 3 mm3) ipsilateral to the insult. Rats anaesthetised with halothane and barbiturate exhibited a similar volume of brain damage. However, infarct volume increased when the duration of halothane anaesthesia was extended from 5 to 180 min post-occlusion. Neuroprotection studies demonstrated that dizocilpine (5 mg/kg, i.p.), administered 30 min prior to MCA occlusion, reduced the volume of cortical brain damage by 51% (P &lt; 0.05) but did not alter the volume of striatal brain damage. The present results demonstrate that microinjections of endothelin-1 adjacent to the rat MCA result in a reproducible pattern of focal cerebral infarction which is sensitive to the duration of anaesthesia and can be reduced by dizocilpine.
The proliferation of low-cost microcomputer systems has led to the use of these systems as alternatives to expensive display devices for visual physiology and psychophysics experiments. The video displays of these systems often lack the flexibility of achieving wide linear luminance ranges and high vertical refresh rates--two parameters which may influence data acquisition. We have examined the responses of neurons and pairs of neurons in cat LGN and striate cortex to bar and sinusoidal grating stimuli generated by a conventional PC-based VGA graphics card and displayed on a NEC Multisync + color monitor with a 60 Hz vertical (display) refresh rate. Responses to these stimuli were autocorrelated and power spectral densities (PSD) were calculated, revealing that the majority of simple and complex cortical cells and nearly all LGN cells exhibited significant peaks in their autocorrelations at 16.7 ms and in the PSD at 60 Hz. Responses to identical stimuli generated with an optical bench using an incandescent light source contained no power at 60 Hz. Furthermore, cross-correlations between the spike trains of neuron-pairs were severely contaminated by peaks directly attributable to the entrainment of the two elements of the pair to the vertical refresh signal. Thus, we suggest that the use of conventional computer displays introduces a temporal artifact into neuronal spike trains in both single and multiple spike train analysis.
Co-morbidity in the older adult Parkinson's disease patient decreases functional status and quality of life, and increases the risk of permanent disability. Although many chronic conditions in the adult population can be prevented, or at least influenced by early detection and treatment many progressive neurologic disorders such as Parkinson's disease cannot. This pilot study describes the health maintenance and disease prevention behaviors of a group of patients with Parkinson's disease. Findings demonstrate that parkinsonians attend in a way similar to their peers without Parkinson's disease to most parameters of general health maintenance as established by the United States Preventive Task Force. In fact, in 11 out of 12 selective parameters, parkinsonians exhibit increased frequency of participation in the recommended behaviors. However, achievement of our national goals for health promotion and disease prevention will require additional efforts in this population. Emphasis should include the participation in Pap smears, mammograms, exercise, seat belt usage and adult immunizations, especially the pneumococcal vaccination. Neuroscience nurses can play an important role in reaching health promotion and disease prevention goals in persons with Parkinson's disease through patient education, advocacy, case management, anticipatory guidance and referrals to primary care providers.
Patients with neurologic dysfunction, particularly spinal cord-injured and stroke patients, are at risk for developing thromboembolic complications due to a variety of factors, especially impaired mobility. Venous stasis, altered coagulability and endothelial vessel damage create a triad of pathophysiological changes that place patients at risk for developing deep vein thrombosis. Prophylactic use of pneumatic compression boots is highly recommended while administration of anticoagulants remains controversial and varied. Inferior vena cava filters are placed in patients who are high risk for pulmonary emboli. Nursing interventions focus on assessments of risk potential and clinical signs and symptoms and implementation of prevention strategies.
The specificity of nerve growth factor (NGF) action was examined by comparing early tyrosine phosphorylation events induced by NGF, epidermal growth factor (EGF), and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF). In PC12 cells, administration of either the differentiation factor NGF or the mitogenic factor EGF led to tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple polypeptides in the 100-110 kDa size range associated with PI-3 kinase. However, NGF induced a more prolonged phosphorylation, relative to a transient EGF effect. In contrast, the differentiation factor bFGF failed to induce measurable tyrosine phosphorylation of PI-3 kinase-associated proteins. Similarly, NGF but not bFGF induced marked tyrosine phosphorylation of PLC gamma, another early signaling molecule, suggesting that multiple pathways exist for promoting differentiation, and/or that these signaling molecules are not essential for differentiation. TrkA signaling was also compared between PC12 cells and NIH-3T3 cells heterologously expressing trkA, where receptor activation promotes mitogenesis. In this comparison, significant differences were observed in the tyrosine phosphorylation pattern of PI-3 kinase-associated polypeptides, suggesting the existence of cell type-specific molecular interactions influencing trkA signaling. Mechanistically, NGF stimulation of PC12 cells resulted in a weak or possibly indirect association between trkA and PI-3 kinase. Furthermore, NGF did not appear to activate or substantially alter the overall level of PI-3 kinase activity, raising the possibility that ligand-induced phosphorylation may serve instead to relocalize constitutively active PI-3 kinase molecules within the cell. Taken together, data presented suggest that the temporal pattern of induced phosphorylation, the nature of induced associations with other phosphoproteins, and cell type-specific components may all contribute to the generation of NGF signaling specificity.
We previously reported that interleukin-3 (IL-3) acts as a neurotrophic factor for cholinergic neurons. However, it has not yet been determined whether the action is derived from the interaction of IL-3 with IL-3 receptors. As the first step to study IL-3 receptors in the central nervous system, we examined the presence and localization of IL-3 receptor-associated antigen (IL-3RAA) in mouse and rat brain. Immunohistochemically, IL-3RAA, which is closely involved both in the IL-3 binding to IL-3 receptors and the tyrosine phosphorylation in the signal transduction for IL-3 in hematopoietic cells, was demonstrated in neurons throughout the brain. This was confirmed in primary cultured neurons and neuronal cell lines by immunocytochemistry and flow cytometry. The staining intensity varied among regions and the most intense immunoreactivity for IL-3RAA was found in large neurons in the magnocellular basal nuclei, pyramidal cells in the cerebral cortex, and neuronal cells in some nuclei of the brainstem. Not only cholinergic cell lines derived from the septal region but also other neuronal cell lines exhibited IL-3RAA immunoreactivity by flow cytometry. Therefore, we conclude that IL-3RAA is present in a wide variety of neurons in the brain including cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain. Western blot analysis revealed that the candidates for IL-3RAA are 145, 100, and 50 kDa proteins both in neuronal and IL-3-dependent cell lines.
A line-element target differing sufficiently in orientation from a background of line elements can be visually detected easily and quickly; orientation thresholds for such detection are lowest when the background elements are all vertical or all horizontal. A simple quantitative model of this performance was constructed from three processing stages: (1) linear filtering by two classes of anisotropic filters, (2) nonlinear point transformation, and (3) estimation of a signal-to-noise ratio based on responses to images with and without a target. A Monte Carlo optimization procedure (simulated annealing) was used to determine the model parameter values required for providing an accurate description of psychophysical data on orientation increment thresholds.
Data from human and animal studies suggest that hyperpyrexia contributes to both the neurotoxic and the lethal effects of stimulant drugs such as methamphetamine (METH). Because many of the effects of METH involve the release of dopamine from CNS neurons, we examined the effects of D1 and D2 dopamine receptor antagonists on METH-induced lethality and determined whether these effects correlated with changes in body temperature. In the first set of experiments, we found that the D2 antagonist sulpiride (SUL; 20, 40 or 80 mg/kg) potentiated the lethality caused by a single injection of METH (10 mg/kg). Pretreatment with the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (SCH; 0.5 mg/kg) reduced the lethality induced by METH alone or by SUL/METH. Other D2 or 5-hydroxytryptamine antagonists prevented, rather than potentiated, METH-induced lethality. In a second set of experiments, rectal temperatures were recorded in METH-injected animals pretreated with SCH or SUL. METH caused a significant increase (i.e., above vehicle-injected levels) in body temperature at 2.5 hr after injection. The effects of SCH or SUL pretreatment on METH-induced changes in body temperature suggest that the lethality-potentiating and -protective effects of SUL and SCH, respectively, were not due to altered thermoregulatory responses. These data support the idea that D1 receptor activation is an important event in the lethality caused by METH and that SUL may potentiate D1 receptor activation by augmenting METH-induced DA release.
CI-1007 has been described in receptor binding and biochemical tests as a dopamine (DA) partial agonist that exhibits DA autoreceptor agonist effects. The present studies describe the profile of CI-1007 in electrophysiological and behavioral tests. CI-1007 inhibited the firing of substantia nigra DA neurons with intrinsic DA agonist activity that was less than that of the full agonists apomorphine and talipexole but greater than that of the weak partial agonist SDZ 208-912. CI-1007 was more potent after intracerebroventricular versus intraperitoneal injection in inhibiting spontaneous locomotor activity in mice, indicating a central site of action. In rats, CI-1007 inhibited locomotor activity after i.v. and p.o. injection, but did not produce locomotor stimulation or induce stereotypy, indicating a lack of postsynaptic DA agonist activity. The relative potencies of CI-1007 for inhibiting apomorphine-stimulated behaviors versus spontaneous locomotor activity in rodents indicated weak postsynaptic DA antagonist actions, consistent with a partial agonist profile. Similar to known antipsychotics, CI-1007 potently inhibited Sidman avoidance responding in squirrel monkeys, but, in contrast to most available antipsychotics, CI-1007 caused only mild extrapyramidal dysfunction in squirrel and cebus monkeys sensitized to the dystonic effects of haloperidol. These data indicate that CI-1007 is a DA partial agonist of moderate intrinsic activity that activates brain DA autoreceptors, produces behavioral effects predictive of antipsychotic efficacy and has a low liability for induction of extrapyramidal side effects.
The receptor binding and biochemical effects of the putative dopamine (DA) partial agonist CI-1007 ([R(+)-1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-4-phenyl- 1-[(3-phenyl-3-cyclohexen-1-yl)methyl]pyridine] maleate) and potential antipsychotic were evaluated with a variety of biochemical methods. In receptor binding studies, CI-1007 bound to rat striatal DA receptors exhibiting a Ki of 3 nM as assessed by inhibition of [3H]N-propylnorapomorphine binding. CI-1007 also exhibited high affinity for cloned human D2L (Ki = 25.5 nM) and D3 (Ki = 16.6 nM) receptors with less affinity for D4.2 receptors (Ki = 90.9 nM). The affinity for serotonin-1A (5-HT-1A), alpha-2 adrenergic and 5-HT-2 receptors was moderate (submicromolar range) and slight or negligible for alpha-1, DA D1 and various other receptors. Unlike dopamine, the inhibition of [3H]spiperone binding was monophasic for CI-1007 and only slightly affected by the addition of Gpp-(NH)p. In vitro CI-1007 antagonized the forskolin-induced increases in cyclic AMP levels in GH4C1 cells expressing the human D2L receptor, having an intrinsic activity of 53% of that seen with the full agonist quinpirole. In vivo CI-1007 antagonized the gamma-butyrolactone (GBL)-induced accumulation of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine in striatum and mesolimbic regions of rat brain, causing a maximal 64% reversal in striatum, consistent with a partial agonist profile. In microdialysis studies it decreased DA overflow in both striatum and nucleus accumbens, indicating decreased release of DA. CI-1007 also reduced brain DA synthesis (DOPA accumulation), metabolism (DOPAC and HVA) and utilization (after tyrosine hydroxylase inhibition with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine). CI-1007 did not affect striatal acetylcholine levels indicating lack of potent postsynaptic DA actions. CI-1007 seemed to be selective for DA neurons as it did not alter rat brain norepinephrine (NE) synthesis in the NE-enriched brainstem or NE utilization in the mesolimbic region. In addition, it did not affect in general 5-HT synthesis and metabolism in striatum and mesolimbic regions. These neurochemical results demonstrate that CI-1007 is a selective potent brain dopamine partial agonist with limited agonist activity at postsynaptic DA receptors.
Several compounds exist that demonstrate a binding preference for cloned dopamine D3 receptors vs. D2 receptors, including (+/-)7-OH DPAT, (+)-UH232 and (+)-AJ76. Inasmuch as recent evidence suggests that the dopamine D3 receptor may function as a dopamine autoreceptor, we have investigated the ability of these D3-preferring ligands to act at synthesis modulating dopamine autoreceptors using the gamma-butyro-lactone model in vivo to isolate the presynaptic effects of (+/-)7-OH DPAT, (+)-UH232 and (+)-AJ76. Further, given the discrete anatomical distribution of the D3 receptor, the striatum, n. Accumbens, and olfactory tubercles were examined for comparative analyses. (+/-)7-OH DPAT displayed agonist characteristics at synthesis modulating dopamine autoreceptors with a greater potency in the olfactory tubercle vs. either the striatum or the nucleus accumbens (ED-50 values were 31.8, 38.1 and 10.2 micrograms/kg for the striatum, nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercles, respectively). Further, (+)-UH232 and (+)-AJ76 attenuated the effects of (+/-)7-OH DPAT (60 micrograms/kg s.c.) in all three regions examined. However, the effects of (+/-)7-OH DPAT were antagonized to a lesser extent in the olfactory tubercles than in either the striatum or the nucleus accumbens. Given the relative abundance of D3 receptors in the olfactory tubercles, the data are consistent with the notion that (+/-)7-OH DPAT may exert its autoreceptor effects preferentially through dopamine D3 receptors.
1. Whole-cell patch-clamp techniques were used to analyse voltage-dependent calcium currents in acutely isolated somata of magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) from the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus of adult rats. Currents were characterized on the basis of their rates of inactivation and their sensitivity to a series of calcium channel blocking agents. 2. Curve fitting analysis of series of long lasting depolarizing voltage steps from a holding potential of -80 mV revealed three current components with different voltage dependences and rates of inactivation (n = 36). These include a low threshold (-60 mV), rapidly inactivating (tau = 42 +/- 3 ms at -10 mV) component, a high threshold (-30 mV), slowly inactivating (tau = 1790 +/- 70 ms) component and a component with an intermediate threshold (-50 mV) and rate of inactivation (tau = 187 +/- 15 ms). There is also a non-inactivating portion of evoked calcium current with a threshold of -50 mV. 3. Based on its voltage dependence, rate of inactivation, greater sensitivity to the divalent cation nickel than to cadmium and insensitivity to omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTX), the low threshold current appears to be a T-type calcium current. The rate of inactivation, voltage dependence, and sensitivity to omega-CgTX of the slowly inactivating component suggests that it is an N-type current. The characteristics of the intermediate component do not correspond to any identified calcium current type. 4. Portions of the non-inactivating calcium current are sensitive to nifedipine (23 +/- 2% of the total non-inactivating current at -10 mV; n = 10), suggesting the presence of L-type currents, omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-Aga-IVA; 20 +/- 6% of total; n = 11), suggesting the presence of P-type channels, and omega-CgTX (39 +/- 3% of total; n = 19), suggesting the presence of a non-inactivating N-type current. The non-inactivating component at low potentials (&gt; or = -50 mV) was selectively blocked by nifedipine, suggesting the presence of a novel, low threshold L-type current. 5. We conclude that MNC soma express T-, N-, L-, and P-type calcium currents, as well as a novel low threshold nifedipine-sensitive current and an unidentified inactivating component. This complement of currents is different from that seen in the terminals of these cells, suggesting a spatial and functional segregation of calcium current types in MNCs.
Testosterone is recognized to have a positive effect on nitrogen balance and muscle development in hypogonadal men, but significantly myopathy secondary to testosterone deficiency has been reported only rarely. We describe a patient who presented with a myopathy associated with testosterone deficiency, and who demonstrated a significant functional and myometric response to treatment.

There is increasing evidence for an association between Alzheimer-type dementia (AD) and nutritionally independent cobalamin deficiency. Furthermore, low serum cobalamin values occur in a kindred with familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) and histopathological confirmation of AD neuropathology. The Cobalamin deficiency could be either a consequence or cause of amyloidogenesis. Cobalamin deficiency is also associated with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). A common pathogenic mechanism may exist for AIDS dementia complex (ADC) and AD, but there is no explanation at present for these associations. This paper presents the hypothesis that protease inhibition is a common factor in AD and ADC resulting in protein-bound cobalamin malabsorption and disrupted cobalamin metabolism.
Cognitive ability did not appear de novo in man. Despite our ability to recognize limited cognitive behavioral characteristics in animals, there has been no outcry to proclaim this phenomenon. Man's image of himself solely possessing cognition has taken advantage of the illusory potential in intersubjectivity and placed him outside of reality. This deception, however, has positive survival value since it is man's self-proclaimed responsibility to excel beyond other simple animal species. However, at this point in evolution, we must allow our cognitive ability to reform itself and, in so doing, evolve with the benefit of the knowledge that this ability is itself creating. By recognizing that animals may have limited cognitive ability, we only enhance our self-esteem, not diminish it.
