Fragments of Clostridium botulinum neurotoxin A (BoNT/A) gene (botA) were expressed in Listeria monocytogenes ATCC10527 to produce the L-chain of the toxin in a soluble form. A shuttle vector pAT19 (EmR) was used to make plasmid pAT-RL containing a botA gene fragment placed under C. botulinum ntnH-gene promoter control. The plasmid also contained a C. botulinum botR/A gene, a positive transcriptional regulator of botA. The cytoplasmic fraction of the L. monocytogenes (pAT-RL) strain was found to contain up to 3 mg/L of a soluble protein of expected size and immunologically positive towards BoNT antibodies. This is the first evidence of heterologous botA gene expression producing a soluble safe derivative of botulinum neurotoxin A needed as a molecular tool for exploratory research in neurosciences as well as a basis for raising protective immunity in humans.

The year 2000 is the fifth century of the birth, in Medina del Campo (Vallodolid, Spain) of licenciado Perea (Gomez Perea or Pereira). A man of the Renaissance, he was an outstanding doctor, humanist, theologist, nominalist philosopher, naturalist and practical engineer. He developed the first modern theory of behavior, based purely on mechanicistic principles, describing his ideas in a text known by the curious title of Antoniana Margarita. The objective of this paper is to pay him homage on the fifth centenary of his birth, making a historiographic study of Gomez Perea and his works, with particular emphasis on the ideological basis and its relationship with Renaissance hydraulic engineering, collaborating with his colleague Francisco Lobato, author of one of the only two pretechnological codices of sixteenth century Spain. The book Antoniana Margarita is written in Renaissance Latin and was published in Medina del Campo in 1554. It represents the first truly modern approach to brain function which excludes the providencialist concepts of Galen involving the soul and the spirit, in vogue until then, transmitted through the Arab and Scholastic tradition. Analyzing his theory of the automatism of animals Perea made the first description ever of the reflex arc and the conditioned reflex. He also established a topographical model of the brain in which he sketched the functioning of the prefrontal cortex and neurophysiology of memory. Perea was the immediate forerunner of Neuropsychology and of the methodology and organicist thought which predominates in modern Neurobiology. He was also a visionary of the Evolution of Darwin and of modern aetiology.

By revealing how brain activity during cognitive performance changes as a function of aging, studies using positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) are contributing to the development of a new discipline of Cognitive Neuroscience of Aging. This article reviews functional neuroimaging studies of cognitive aging in the domains of visual perception, episodic memory encoding and semantic memory retrieval, episodic memory retrieval, implicit memory, and working memory. The most consistent finding of these studies was that brain activity tends to be less lateralized in older adults than in younger adults. This finding is conceptualized in terms of a model called Hemispheric Asymmetry Reduction in Old Adults (HAROLD). According to a compensation hypothesis, bihemispheric involvement could help counteract age-related neurocognitive decline, whereas, according to a dedifferentiation hypothesis, it reflects a difficulty in recruiting specialized neural mechanisms.
The study of illiterate subjects, which for specific socio-cultural reasons did not have the opportunity to acquire basic reading and writing skills, represents one approach to study the interaction between neurobiological and cultural factors in cognitive development and the functional organization of the human brain. In addition the naturally occurring illiteracy may serve as a model for studying the influence of alphabetic orthography on auditory-verbal language. In this paper we have reviewed some recent behavioral and functional neuroimaging data indicating that learning an alphabetic written language modulates the auditory-verbal language system in a non-trivial way and provided support for the hypothesis that the functional architecture of the brain is modulated by literacy. We have also indicated that the effects of literacy and formal schooling is not limited to language related skills but appears to affect also other cognitive domains. In particular, we indicate that formal schooling influences 2D but not 3D visual naming skills. We have also pointed to the importance of using ecologically relevant tasks when comparing literate and illiterate subjects. We also demonstrate the applicability of a network approach in elucidating differences in the functional organization of the brain between groups. The strength of such an approach is the ability to study patterns of interactions between functionally specialized brain regions and the possibility to compare such patterns of brain interactions between groups or functional states. This complements the more commonly used activation approach to functional neuroimaging data, which characterize functionally specialized regions, and provides important data characterizing the functional interactions between these regions.
The medial temporal lobe has been implicated in studies of episodic memory tasks involving spatio-temporal context and object-location conjunctions. We have previously demonstrated that an increased level of practice in a free-recall task parallels a decrease in the functional activity of several brain regions, including the medial temporal lobe, the prefrontal, the anterior cingulate, the anterior insular, and the posterior parietal cortices, that in concert demonstrate a move from elaborate controlled processing towards a higher degree of automaticity. Here we report data from two experiments that extend these initial observations. We used a similar experimental approach but probed for effects of retrieval paradigms and stimulus material. In the first experiment we investigated practice related changes during recognition of object-location conjunctions and in the second during free-recall of pseudo-words. Learning in a neural network is a dynamic consequence of information processing and network plasticity. The present and previous PET results indicate that practice can induce a learning related functional restructuring of information processing. Different adaptive processes likely subserve the functional re-organisation observed. These may in part be related to different demands for attentional and working memory processing. It appears that the role(s) of the prefrontal cortex and the medial temporal lobe in memory retrieval are complex, perhaps reflecting several different interacting processes or cognitive components. We suggest that an integrative interactive perspective on the role of the prefrontal and medial temporal lobe is necessary for an understanding of the processing significance of these regions in learning and memory. It appears necessary to develop elaborated and explicit computational models for prefrontal and medial temporal functions in order to derive detailed empirical predictions, and in combination with an efficient use and development of functional neuroimaging approaches, to further the understanding of the processing significance of these regions in memory.
We have previously shown differential effects of stimulus familiarity on the repetition-related responses in right fusiform cortex to both faces and symbols. Repetition of familiar stimuli produced a response decrease, whereas repetition of unfamiliar stimuli produced a response increase. In the present experiment, we used words and nonwords as the familiar and unfamiliar stimuli respectively. In this case, the only fusiform region showing the familiarity-by-repetition interaction was in anterior left fusiform. This left-lateralisation of the fusiform interaction is consistent with our hypothesis that these repetition-related effects occur in the same regions responsible for perceptual recognition of familiar stimuli.
The representational capacity and inherent function of any neuron, neuronal population or cortical area in the brain is dynamic and context-sensitive. Functional integration, or interactions among brain systems, that employ driving (bottom up) and backward (top-down) connections, mediate this adaptive and contextual specialisation. A critical consequence is that neuronal responses, in any given cortical area, can represent different things at different times. This can have fundamental implications for the design of brain imaging experiments and the interpretation of their results. Our arguments are developed under generative models of brain function, where higher-level systems provide a prediction of the inputs to lower-level regions. Conflict between the two is resolved by changes in the higher-level representations, which are driven by the ensuing error in lower regions, until the mismatch is &quot;cancelled&quot;. From this perspective the specialisation of any region is determined both by bottom-up driving inputs and by top-down predictions. Specialisation is therefore not an intrinsic property of any region but depends on both forward and backward connections with other areas. Because the latter have access to the context in which the inputs are generated they are in a position to modulate the selectivity or specialisation of lower areas. The implications for classical models (e.g., classical receptive fields in electrophysiology, classical specialisation in neuroimaging and connectionism in cognitive models) are severe and suggest these models may provide incomplete accounts of real brain architectures. Here we focus on the implications for cognitive neuroscience in the context of neuroimaging.
This paper presents a brief overview of functional neuroimaging studies of cognitive processes. A &quot;publication profile&quot; is identified for PET and fMRI studies of cognitive functions. It is shown that the number of publications has increased exponentially over the last ten years, and that a set of ten journals accounts for the vast majority of publications. It is argued that the field has moved from a state of explorative character to a state of high theoretical sophistication. With special reference to the contributions in this issue of Scandinavian Journal of Psychology, methodological, topical, regional, and clinical implications of cognitive neuroscientific studies are discussed.
A longitudinal prospective approach was used to investigate clinical correlations of interictal occipital paroxysms with or without fixation-off sensitivity (FOS). Occipital paroxysms were recorded in the electroencephalograms (EEGs) of 76 children with heterogeneous clinical conditions including seizures in 39 patients. Occipital paroxysms with FOS (42 patients ) were only fractionally more frequent than non-FOS (34 patients ) and were not specific of any clinical condition. Although present and FOS-related in all 11 children with benign childhood epilepsies with occipital paroxysms (CEOP), they were also frequently encountered in symptomatic occipital epilepsy. The differentiation of CEOP from other syndromes established on clinical grounds could also be aided by the analysis of background EEG activity that was frequently significantly more abnormal in symptomatic than CEOP. Clinical characteristics and ictal seizure semiology as well as follow-up clearly distinguish two type of idiopathic CEOP syndromes: (1) early onset type or Panayiotopoulos syndrome characterized by excellent prognosis and rare, prolonged nocturnal seizures with tonic deviations of the eyes and vomiting, and (2) late onset or Gastaut type showing a common ictal visual symptomatology, co-occurrence of migraine, diurnal complex partial seizures and less favourable EEG-clinical prognosis.
This review deals with the recent functional brain imaging studies of pain. In summary, the sensory-discriminative component of pain is related with the lateral thalamus, primary and secondary somatosensory area and insular cortices, while the posterior parietal and prefrontal cortices seem to play a role in the cognitive-attentional process of nociceptive information. Different parts of anterior cingulate gyrus are correlated with cognitive and emotional aspects of pain. Brain imaging data obtained from clinical patients suffering from various kinds of pain especially neuropathic pain, were discussed at the end of this article.






Previous studies have demonstrated that when the temperature of hippocampal brain slices is increased, there is a corresponding depression of synaptic potentials mediated by an increased activation of presynaptic adenosine A(1) receptors. The present experiments demonstrate that when the temperature of hippocampal slices is raised from 32.5 degrees C to either 38.5 degrees C or 40.0 degrees C there is a marked, temperature-dependent increase in the efflux of endogenous adenosine and a corresponding decrease in excitatory synaptic responses. The increase in efflux is rapidly reversible on lowering the slice temperature and the temperature-induced efflux is repeatable. Control experiments suggest that this increased efflux of adenosine is not the result of hypoxia or ischemia secondary to a temperature-induced increase in the metabolic rate of the slice. The increase in adenosine efflux was not accompanied by any significant change in the ATP levels in the brain slice, whereas a hypoxic stimulus sufficient to produce a comparable depression of excitatory transmission produced an approximately 75% decrease in ATP levels. These experiments indicate that changes in brain slice temperature can alter purine metabolism in such a way as to increase the adenosine concentration in the extracellular space, as well as adenosine efflux from hippocampal slices, in the absence of significant changes in ATP levels.
The body plan of the tadpole larva of ascidians, or sea-squirts, is widely presumed to be close to that of the hypothetical ancestor of all chordate animal groups, including vertebrates. This is nowhere more obvious than in the organization and development of the dorsal tubular nervous system. Several recent developments advocate this model neural system for studies on neurobiology and neurogenesis. These include advances in our understanding of development in ascidian embryos and of differentiation among the cellular progeny of its neural plate; the application of transgenic and mutant approaches to studies on ascidian larval neurones; and the prospect of advances in genomic analyses. In addition to providing ways to study a working chordate brain in miniature, all these offer insights into the ancestral condition of the developing vertebrate brain.
Although sequencing of the human genome has been taking place in rapidly accelerating fashion for years, the presentation of the entire sequence (to a first approximation, anyway) has now permitted a global view of its structure. The completion of the sequence has therefore invited all manner of aesthetic, philosophical, societal - as well as biological - discussions of its implications. This global view of the genome will undoubtedly forever change the face of biology. But how? Here are a few perspectives from the point of view of neuroscience.
We investigated the photocurrents from isolated rods of the South American anuran, Caudiverbera caudiverbera. Rod outer segments were on average 66.4 +/- 11.2 microm (mean +/- S.D., n = 104) in length and 6.6 +/- 0.9 microm (mean +/- S.D.) in diameter: 40 +/- 22 photoisomerizations (mean +/- S.D., range 10-99, n = 16) were required for eliciting a half-saturating photocurrent response. The time-to-peak was 911 +/- 217 ms (mean +/- S.D., n = 14, 20 degrees C) in the linear range of the response and the integration time of the current response was 1744 +/- 451 ms (mean +/- S.D., n = 14). The time-to-peak appears to be slower and the integration time shorter in Caudiverbera than in Ambystoma tigrinum, Rana pipiens or Xenopus laevis rods under similar experimental conditions. The a-band of rod spectral sensitivity has a lambda(max) at 520 +/- 2.1 nm (mean +/- S.D., range 516-525 nm, n = 24) and the bandwidth fits a porphyropsin visual pigment. The single-event response amplitude ranges from 0.31-0.51 pA, depending on the calculation method. The intrinsic dark current (variance at dark minus variance under bright light) was 0.045 +/- 0.040 pA2 (mean +/- S.D., n = 24). Our results support the presence of a dark-noise component below 1 Hz, with kinetics similar to the single-photon evoked response and a rate of 0.006 events s(-1) (n = 9).
The present study has examined the emergence of cholinergic stratification within the developing inner plexiform layer (IPL), and the effect of ablating the cholinergic amacrine cells on the formation of other stratifications within the IPL. The population of cholinergic amacrine cells in the ferret's retina was identified as early as the day of birth, but their processes did not form discrete strata until the end of the first postnatal week. As development proceeded over the next five postnatal weeks, so the positioning of the cholinergic strata shifted within the IPL toward the outer border, indicative of the greater ingrowth and elaboration of processes within the innermost parts of the IPL. To examine whether these cholinergic strata play an instructive role upon the development of other stratifications which form within the IPL, one-week-old ferrets were treated with L-glutamate in an attempt to ablate the population of cholinergic amacrine cells. Such treatment was shown to be successful, eliminating all of the cholinergic amacrine cells as well as the alpha retinal ganglion cells in the central retina. The remaining ganglion cell classes as well as a few other retinal cell types were partially reduced, while other cell types were not affected, and neither retinal histology nor areal growth was compromised in these ferrets. Despite this early loss of the cholinergic amacrine cells, which are eliminated within 24 h, other stratifications within the IPL formed normally, as they do following early elimination of the entire ganglion cell population. While these cholinergic amacrine cells are present well before other cell types have differentiated, apparently neither they, nor the ganglion cells, play a role in determining the depth of stratification for other retinal cell types.
Growing evidence from psychophysics and single-unit recordings suggests specialised mechanisms in the primate visual system for the detection of complex motion patterns such as expansion and rotation. Here we used a subthreshold summation technique to determine the direction tuning functions of the detecting mechanisms. We measured thresholds for discriminating noise and signal+noise for pairs of superimposed complex motion patterns (signal A and B) carried by random-dot stimuli in a circular 5 degrees field. For expansion, rotation, deformation and translation we found broad tuning functions approximated by cos(d), where d is the difference in dot directions for signal A and B. These data were well described by models in which either: (a) cardinal mechanisms had direction bandwidths (half-widths) of around 60 degrees; or (b) the number of mechanisms was increased and their half-width was reduced to about 40 degrees. When d=180 degrees we found summation to be greater than probability summation for expansion, rotation and translation, consistent with the idea that mechanisms for these stimuli are constructed from subunits responsive to relative motion. For deformation, however, we found sensitivity declined when d=180 degrees, suggesting antagonistic input from directional subunits in the deformation mechanism. This is a necessary property for a mechanism whose job is to extract the deformation component from the optic flow field.


Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the most important inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system (CNS). Degradation of GABA in the CNS is catalyzed by the action of GABA transaminase (GABA-T). However, the neuroanatomical characteristics of GABA-T in the gerbil, which is a useful experimental animal in neuroscience, are still unknown. Therefore, we performed a comparative analysis of the distribution of GABA-T in rat and gerbil brains using immunohistochemistry. GABA-T immunoreactive neurons were observed in the regions which contained GABAergic neurons of both animals: corpus striatum; substantia nigra, pars reticulata; septal nucleus; and accumbens nucleus. GABA-T + neurons were restricted to layers III and V in the rat. Unlike the rat GABA-T + neurons were observed in layers II, III, and V of the gerbil cerebral cortex. These results suggest that the expression of GABA-T in the gerbil brain may be similar to that in the rat brain, except in the cerebral cortex.
We previously reported an epitope presenting vector, pCI, a derivative of a human invariant chain (Ii) expression vector, in which the class II associated invariant chain peptide (CLIP, Ii p89-101) could be substituted with antigenic peptides. In the current study, we used this vector to develop a new expression cloning system to identify CD4+ T cell epitopes. We inserted double-stranded oligo DNAs of randomized sequences into this vector and prepared an epitope-presenting library which loads randomized 13-mer peptides onto HLA class II molecules coexpressed in COS-7 cells. Utilizing this library, we isolated a cross-reactive epitope recognized by a glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) 65-autoreactive T cell clone established from a patient with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Although the newly identified epitope (PVQLSNQWHVVGATF) was far different from the original epitope, GAD65 p116-128 (NILLQYVVKSFDR), it did have the capacity to stimulate the T cell clone comparable to that of the original GAD epitope. Our system may be applicable not only for identifying of cross-reactive epitopes for CD4+ T cells of known specificity, but also for detection of epitopes stimulatory for CD4+ T cells the epitopes of which are unknown.
We studied the expression of the apoptosis-related protein, E2F-1, in Down's syndrome (DS) brains. The immunoreactivity for E2F-1 was detected in the pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex from DS brains exhibiting the neuropathological features of dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT), in accordance with the amyloid beta protein (A beta) deposition in the neuron. Therefore, the implication is that A beta deposition may trigger E2F-1-mediated neuronal apoptosis in DS brains with DAT.
Kappa opioid receptors (KORs) were immunocytochemically localized at four different levels of the spinal cord of normally-cycling female rats in estrus or diestrus. KOR labeling was primarily observed in fine processes and a few neuronal cell bodies in the superficial dorsal horn and the dorsolateral funiculus. Quantitative light microscopic densitometry of the superficial dorsal horn revealed that there were no significant differences in KOR densities among spinal segments C1--C2, T2, T13--L1, and L6--S1 in either the estrus or diestrus phases. These results suggest that the potential for KOR-mediated antinociceptive responses is consistent along the rostrocaudal axis of the female rat spinal cord.
MPTP is a toxin presumed to damage dopamine-secreting neurons by an oxygen free radical-mediated mechanism. Two steps in MPTP metabolism are the primary candidates for oxygen free radical generation: (a) MPTP oxidation to MPP(+) by a monoamine oxidase and (b) NADH dehydrogenase inhibition by MPP(+). In order to test the idea that MPTP toxicity is mediated by oxygen free radicals, we assessed lipid peroxidation and the effects of antioxidants in dopaminergic PC12 cells treated with MPTP or MPP(+). For comparison purposes, we also examined the effects of the pro-oxidant tert-butyl-hydroperoxide (TBHP) and of the dopaminergic toxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in PC12 cells. MPTP and MPP(+), unlike TBHP, failed to induce lipid peroxidation in PC12 cells after a 4-h exposure. All toxins tested (MPTP, MPP(+), TBHP and 6-OHDA) caused a dose-dependent decrease in [(3)H]dopamine ((3)H-DA) uptake in PC12 cultures. The hydroperoxide scavengers glutathione and N-acetyl-cysteine and the superoxide and peroxide scavenger EUK-134 protected PC12 cells from TBHP- and 6-OHDA-induced decrease in (3)H-DA uptake. However, no protection by these antioxidants at various concentrations and time regimens was observed against MPTP- or MPP(+)-induced decreases in (3)H-DA uptake in PC12 cells. In addition, incubation of PC12 cells with the energy-rich substrate, NADH, attenuated MPP(+)-induced decrease in (3)H-DA uptake. These results suggest that MPTP-induced toxicity in dopaminergic PC12 cell cultures, does not involve oxygen free radical production, but rather may be caused by impairment in energy metabolism.
Different ratios of normal male rats and male rats in which limbic seizures had been induced by a single systemic injection of lithium and pilocarpine were housed in groups of six. The group ratios ranged along the continuum from all normal rats to all experimental rats. The average numbers of episodes of boxing, biting and mounting--thrusting per rat per hour per group were recorded by direct observation (red light) for 1 h during the midscotophase. Groups that contained less than two normal rats exhibited significantly elevated amounts of agonistic (boxing, biting) behavior but not mounting behavior. Multiple regression analyses showed that combinations of neuronal loss within only two to three areas accommodated at least 50% of the variance in the numbers of these behaviors.
We describe here an experimental protocol for the resolution, detection, and quantitation of the reduced and oxidized conformers of human heat shock factor 1 (hHSF1) and report on the effects in vitro and in vivo of redox-active agents on the redox status, structure, and function of hHSF1. We showed that diamide, a reagent that promotes disulfide bond formation, caused a loss of immunorecognition of the monomeric hHSF1 protein in a standard Western blot detection procedure. Modification of the Western blot procedure to include dithiothreitol in the equilibration and transfer buffers after gel electrophoresis allowed for the detection of a compact, intramolecularly disulfide cross-linked oxidized hHSF1 (ox-hHSF1) in the diamide-treated sample. The effect of diamide was blocked by pretreatment with N-ethylmaleimide and was reversed by dithiothreitol added to the sample prior to gel electrophoresis. Incubation with nitrosoglutathione at 42 degrees C also promoted the conversion of HSF1 to ox-HSF1; at 25 degrees C, however, nitrosoglutathione was by itself without effect but blocked the formation of ox-hHSF1 in the presence of diamide. The disulfide cross-linked ox-hHSF1 was monomeric and resistant to the in vitro heat-induced trimerization and activation. The possibility that ox-HSF1 may occur in oxidatively stressed cells was evaluated. Treatment of HeLa cells with 2 mm l-buthionine sulfoximine promoted the formation of ox-HSF1 and blocked the heat-induced activation of HSF DNA binding activity. Our result suggests that hHSF1 may have integrated redox chemistry of cysteine sulfhydryl into its functional responses.
Three-dimensional structures of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) reveal a narrow and deep active site gorge with two sites of ligand binding, an acylation site at the base of the gorge, and a peripheral site near the gorge entrance. Recent studies have shown that the peripheral site contributes to catalytic efficiency by transiently binding substrates on their way to the acylation site, but the question of whether the peripheral site makes other contributions to the catalytic process remains open. A possible role for ligand binding to the peripheral site that has long been considered is the initiation of a conformational change that is transmitted allosterically to the acylation site to alter catalysis. However, evidence for conformational interactions between these sites has been difficult to obtain. Here we report that thioflavin T, a fluorophore widely used to detect amyloid structure in proteins, binds selectively to the AChE peripheral site with an equilibrium dissociation constant of 1.0 microm. The fluorescence of the bound thioflavin T is increased more than 1000-fold over that of unbound thioflavin T, the greatest enhancement of fluorescence for the binding of a fluorophore to AChE yet observed. Furthermore, when the acylation site ligands edrophonium or m-(N, N,N-trimethylammonio)trifluoroacetophenone form ternary complexes with AChE and thioflavin T, the fluorescence is quenched by factors of 2.7-4.2. The observation of this partial quenching of thioflavin T fluorescence is a major advance in the study of AChE for two reasons. First, it allows thioflavin T to be used as a reporter for ligand reactions at the acylation site. Second, it indicates that ligand binding to the acylation site initiates a change in the local AChE conformation at the peripheral site that quenches the fluorescence of bound thioflavin T. The data provide strong evidence in support of a conformational interaction between the two AChE sites.
To explore the direct role of beta-amyloid (Abeta) and carboxyl-terminal fragments of amyloid precursor protein in the inflammatory processes possibly linked to neurodegeneration associated with Alzheimer's disease, the effects of the 105-amino acid carboxyl-terminal fragment (CT(105)) of amyloid precursor protein on the production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) were examined in a human monocytic THP-1 cell line and compared with that of Abeta. CT(105) elicited a marked increase in TNF-alpha and MMP-9 production in the presence of interferon-gamma in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Similar patterns were obtained with Abeta despite its low magnitude of induction. Autocrine TNF-alpha is likely to be a main mediator of the induction of MMP-9 because the neutralizing antibody to TNF-alpha inhibits MMP-9 production. Genistein, a specific inhibitor of tyrosine kinase, dramatically diminished both TNF-alpha secretion and subsequent MMP-9 release in response to CT(105) or Abeta. Furthermore, PD98059 and SB202190, specific inhibitors of ERK or p38 MAPK respectively, efficiently suppressed CT(105)-induced effects whereas only PD98059 was effective at reducing Abeta-induced effects. Our results suggest that CT(105) in combination with interferon-gamma might serve as a more potent activator than Abeta in triggering inflammatory processes and that both tyrosine kinase and MAPK signaling pathways may represent potential therapeutic targets for the control of Alzheimer's disease progression.
The major adrenal steroid dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) enhances memory and immune function but has no known dedicated receptor; local metabolism may govern its activity. We described a cytochrome P450 expressed in brain and other tissues, CYP7B, that catalyzes the 7alpha-hydroxylation of oxysterols and 3beta-hydroxysteroids including DHEA. We report here that CYP7B mRNA and 7alpha-hydroxylation activity are widespread in rat tissues. However, steroids related to DHEA are reported to be modified at positions other than 7alpha, exemplified by prominent 6alpha-hydroxylation of 5alpha-androstane-3beta,17beta-diol (A/anediol) in some rodent tissues including brain. To determine whether CYP7B is responsible for these and other activities we disrupted the mouse Cyp7b gene by targeted insertion of an IRES-lacZ reporter cassette, placing reporter enzyme activity (beta-galactosidase) under Cyp7b promoter control. In heterozygous mouse brain, chromogenic detection of reporter activity was strikingly restricted to the dentate gyrus. Staining did not exactly reproduce the in situ hybridization expression pattern; post-transcriptional control is inferred. Lower level staining was detected in cerebellum, liver, and kidney, and which largely paralleled mRNA distribution. Liver and kidney expression was sexually dimorphic. Mice homozygous for the insertion are viable and superficially normal, but ex vivo metabolism of DHEA to 7alpha-hydroxy-DHEA was abolished in brain, spleen, thymus, heart, lung, prostate, uterus, and mammary gland; lower abundance metabolites were also eliminated. 7alpha-Hydroxylation of 25-hydroxycholesterol and related substrates was also abolished, as was presumed 6alpha-hydroxylation of A/anediol. These different enzyme activities therefore derive from the Cyp7b gene. CYP7B is thus a major extrahepatic steroid and oxysterol hydroxylase and provides the predominant route for local metabolism of DHEA and related molecules in brain and other tissues.
Seven genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae are predicted to code for membrane-spanning proteins (designated AVT1-7) that are related to the neuronal gamma-aminobutyric acid-glycine vesicular transporters. We have now demonstrated that four of these proteins mediate amino acid transport in vacuoles. One protein, AVT1, is required for the vacuolar uptake of large neutral amino acids including tyrosine, glutamine, asparagine, isoleucine, and leucine. Three proteins, AVT3, AVT4, and AVT6, are involved in amino acid efflux from the vacuole and, as such, are the first to be shown directly to transport compounds from the lumen of an acidic intracellular organelle. This function is consistent with the role of the vacuole in protein degradation, whereby accumulated amino acids are exported to the cytosol. Protein AVT6 is responsible for the efflux of aspartate and glutamate, an activity that would account for their exclusion from vacuoles in vivo. Transport by AVT1 and AVT6 requires ATP for function and is abolished in the presence of nigericin, indicating that the same pH gradient can drive amino acid transport in opposing directions. Efflux of tyrosine and other large neutral amino acids by the two closely related proteins, AVT3 and AVT4, is similar in terms of substrate specificity to transport system h described in mammalian lysosomes and melanosomes. These findings suggest that yeast AVT transporter function has been conserved to control amino acid flux in vacuolar-like organelles.
Presenilin 1 mutations are the major cause of autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease. Here we present evidence that pathogenic mutations in putative transmembrane domains 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 align along helical faces, thus supporting the view that these are indeed transmembrane domains, and suggesting that disruption of the alignment of these domains is responsible for the pathogenicity of the mutations.
Retrospective analysis shows that women who took estrogen replacement therapy may have less risk of cognitive decline and of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). The greater risk associated with female gender and these observations suggest that estrogen may be implicated in the aetiology of AD. Estrogen is one of a family of sex steroids that exerts many of its genomic effects through the activation of the nuclear estrogen receptors, ERalpha and ERbeta. Previously, increased risk for AD has been reported for polymorphisms in the ERalpha gene in a Japanese cohort, however, this association has not been systematically replicated. We have further investigated polymorphisms in the ERalpha and have extended this to investigate an association with a polymorphism within the ERbeta gene in an independent UK Caucasian population. We found no independent association of these polymorphisms with the risk of developing AD in the total sample nor within either gender. However, we did detect a significant interaction between the ERalpha and ERbeta polymorphisms and the risk for AD (OR=0.22 95% CI (0.05-0.88), P=0.02). If this finding can be supported in other independent studies, it may suggest that the risk for AD may be modulated only when both ERalpha and ERbeta have particular variations in their expression and/or biological activities.
This study examined whether a rat model of surgically-induced endometriosis that reduces fertility also evokes vaginal hyperalgesia along with changes in vaginal compliance. In nine rats trained to escape vaginal distention, percent escape responses to different volumes of vaginal distention were measured for 2.5 months before and after endometriosis or sham surgery. Vaginal pressures were also measured simultaneously to provide an estimate of vaginal compliance. Endometriosis (or sham) was induced by autotransplantation of small pieces of uterus (or fat) on mesenteric cascade arteries, abdomen, and ovary. Escape responses were significantly increased only in rats whose autotransplants had formed cysts. Vaginal pressures, however, remained unchanged. This vaginal hyperalgesia may involve a process of viscero-visceral referred hyperalgesia.
Trimethyltin (TMT), an organic metal, has been known to induce behavioral abnormalities including seizures and aggression. We administered TMT to rats, then, behavioral changes as well as the changes of dynorphin and Met-enkephalin mRNA were observed with or without phenobarbital treatment in order to reveal the role of neuropeptides in seizure-generating mechanisms. Met-enkephalin mRNA was significantly increased at the 2nd to 6th day after TMT administration when seizure was frequently observed. Meanwhile, dynorphin mRNA was decreased significantly from the 2nd day to 16th day during aggression score remained high. Phenobarbital abolished not only seizures and aggression, but also the changes of neuropeptide expressions. These results suggest that the changes of dynorphin mRNA are more strongly associated with aggression than seizures, while Met-enkephalin changes correlate more with seizures.





FE65 binds to the Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein (APP), but the function of this interaction has not been identified. Here, we report that APP and FE65 are involved in regulation of cell movement. APP and FE65 colocalize with actin and Mena, an Abl-associated signaling protein thought to regulate actin dynamics, in lamellipodia. APP and FE65 specifically concentrate with beta 1-integrin in dynamic adhesion sites known as focal complexes, but not in more static adhesion sites known as focal adhesions. Overexpression of APP accelerates cell migration in an MDCK cell wound--healing assay. Coexpression of APP and FE65 dramatically enhances the effect of APP on cell movement, probably by regulating the amount of APP at the cell surface. These data are consistent with a role for FE65 and APP, possibly in a Mena-containing macromolecular complex, in regulation of actin-based motility.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to plastic changes in organization that impact significantly on central nervous control of arterial pressure. SCI causes hypotension and autonomic dysreflexia, an episodic hypertension induced by spinal reflexes. Sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs) respond to SCI by retracting and then regrowing their dendrites within 2 weeks of injury. We examined changes in synaptic input to SPNs during this time by comparing the density and amino acid content of synaptic input to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-immunoreactive SPNs in the eighth thoracic spinal cord segment (T8) in unoperated rats and in rats at 3 days or at 14 days after spinal cord transection at T4. Postembedding immunogold labeling demonstrated immunoreactivity for glutamate or gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) within presynaptic profiles. We counted the number of presynaptic inputs to measured lengths of SPN somatic and dendritic membrane and identified the amino acid in each input. We also assessed gross changes in the morphology of SPNs using retrograde labeling with cholera toxin B and light microscopy to determine the structural changes that were present at the time of evaluation of synaptic density and amino acid content. At 3 days after SCI, we found that retrogradely labeled SPNs had shrunken somata and greatly shortened dendrites. Synaptic density (inputs per 10-microm membrane) decreased on ChAT-immunoreactive somata by 34% but increased on dendrites by 66%. Almost half of the inputs to SPNs lacked amino acids. By 14 days, the density of synaptic inputs to dendrites and somata decreased by 50% and 70%, respectively, concurrent with dendrite regrowth. The proportion of glutamatergic inputs to SPNs in spinal cord-transected rats ( approximately 40%) was less than that in unoperated rats, whereas the GABAergic proportion (60-68%) increased. In summary, SPNs participate in vasomotor control after SCI despite profound denervation. An altered balance of excitatory and inhibitory inputs may explain injury-induced hypotension.
The photoreceptors of the horseshoe crab Limulus polyphemus are classical preparations for studies of the photoresponse and its modulation by circadian clocks. An extensive literature details their physiology and ultrastructure, but relatively little is known about their biochemical organization largely because of a lack of antibodies specific for Limulus photoreceptor proteins. We developed antibodies directed against Limulus opsin, visual arrestin, and myosin III, and we have used them to examine the distributions of these proteins in the Limulus visual system. We also used a commercial antibody to examine the distribution of calmodulin in Limulus photoreceptors. Fixed frozen sections of lateral eye were examined with conventional fluorescence microscopy; ventral photoreceptors were studied with confocal microscopy. Opsin, visual arrestin, myosin III, and calmodulin are all concentrated at the photosensitive rhabdomeral membrane, which is consistent with their participation in the photoresponse. Opsin and visual arrestin, but not myosin III or calmodulin, are also concentrated in extra-rhabdomeral vesicles thought to contain internalized rhabdomeral membrane. In addition, visual arrestin and myosin III were found widely distributed in the cytosol of photoreceptors, suggesting that they have functions in addition to their roles in phototransduction. Our results both clarify and raise new questions about the functions of opsin, visual arrestin, myosin III, and calmodulin in photoreceptors and set the stage for future studies of the impact of light and clock signals on the structure and function of photoreceptors.
To assess the relationship between dopaminergic neuronal structures and dopaminoceptive structures in a reptile, single and double immunohistochemical procedures with antibodies directed against DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein with an apparent molecular mass of 32,000 daltons),a phosphoprotein related to the dopamine D(1)-receptor, and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) were applied to the brain of the lizard, Gekko gecko. The DARPP-32 antibody yielded a well-differentiated pattern of staining in the brain of Gekko. In general, areas that are densely innervated by TH-immunoreactive, putative dopaminergic fibers, such as the nucleus accumbens, striatum, dorsal ventricular ridge, and amygdaloid complex, display strong immunoreactivity for DARPP-32 in somata and neuropil. Distinct cellular DARPP-32 immunoreactivity was also found in the lateral cortex, ventral hypothalamus, habenula, central nucleus of the torus semicircularis, midbrain tectum, parvicellular isthmic nucleus, raphe nuclei, caudal rhombencephalic tegmentum, and spinal cord. Striatal projections to the midbrain and their target, i.e., the substantia nigra pars reticulata, were found to be strongly immunoreactive. Double immunofluorescence staining revealed that dopaminergic cells generally do not stain for DARPP-32, except for cells in the ventral hypothalamus and at caudal rhombencephalic levels. In conclusion, the distribution of DARPP-32 in the brain of the lizard Gekko gecko largely resembles the pattern observed in birds and mammals, at least as far as basal ganglia structures are concerned. On the other hand, there are several specific features of DARPP-32 distribution in the gekkonid brain that deserve further attention, such as cellular colocalization of DARPP-32 and TH immunoreactivity in hypothalamic and caudal rhombencephalic areas, and cellular DARPP-32 immunoreactivity in the tectum and central nucleus of the torus semicircularis of the midbrain, the superior and inferior raphe nuclei, and the spinal cord.
Neuron death seems to be regulated mainly by postsynaptic target cells. In chicks, nicotinic antagonists such as alpha-bungarotoxin (alphaBT) can prevent normal cell death of somatic motor neurons (SMNs). For this effect, however, alphaBT could be acting at peripheral neuromuscular junctions and/or central cholinergic synapses. To investigate this issue, we first studied the development of cholinergic terminals in the rat spinal cord by using vesicular acetylcholine transporter immunocytochemistry. Labeled terminals were seen in the ventral horn as early as embryonic day 15 (E15), the beginning of the cell death period. Thus, central cholinergic synapses form at the correct time and place to be able to influence SMN death. We next added alphaBT to organotypic, spinal slice cultures made at E15. After 5 days in vitro, the number of SMNs in treated cultures was substantially greater than in control cultures, indicating that alphaBT can reduce SMN cell death in rats as it does in chicks. Moreover, peripheral target removal led to extensive loss of SMNs, and such a loss occurred even in the presence of alphaBT, indicating the necessity of peripheral target for the alphaBT effect. Finally, to determine whether central cholinergic terminals also may be involved in SMN death, we delayed the alphaBT treatment until after central cholinergic terminals had disappeared from the slice cultures. The increased number of surviving SMNs, even in the absence of central terminals, argued that alphaBT acts at peripheral, not central, cholinergic synapses to rescue SMNs from developmental cell death.
Dendritic spines differ considerably in their size, shape, and internal organization between brain regions. We examined the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic spines in hippocampus (areas CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus), neostriatum, and cerebellum at both light and electron microscopic levels by using a novel high-resolution photoconversion method based in the high affinity of phalloidin for filamentous (F)-actin. In all brain regions, labeling was strongest in the heads of dendritic spines, diminishing in the spine neck. The number of labeled spines varied by region. Compared with the cerebellar molecular layer and area CA3, where nearly every dendritic spine was labeled, less than half the spines were labeled in CA1, dentate gyrus, and neostriatum. Serial section reconstructions of spines in these areas indicated that phalloidin labeling was restricted to the largest and most morphologically diverse dendritic spines. The resolution of the photoconversion technique allowed us to examine the localization and organization of actin filaments in the spine. The most intense staining for actin was found in the postsynaptic density and associated with the spines internal membrane system. In mushroom-shaped spines, F-actin staining was particularly strong between the lamellae of the spine apparatus. Three-dimensional reconstruction of labeled spines by using electron tomography showed that the labeled dense material was in continuity with the postsynaptic density. These results highlight differences in the actin cytoskeleton between different spine populations and provide novel information on the organization of the actin cytoskeleton in vivo.
Neurotensin is present in selective mesolimbic dopaminergic projections to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell but also is synthesized locally in this region and in the motor-associated NAc core. We examined the electron microscopic immunolabeling of the high-affinity neurotensin receptor (NTR) and neurotensin in these subdivisions of rat NAc to determine the sites for receptor activation and potential regional differences in distribution. Throughout the NAc, NTR immunoreactivity was localized discretely within both neurons and glia. NTR-labeled neuronal profiles were mainly axons and axon terminals with diverse synaptic structures, which resembled dopaminergic and glutamatergic afferents, as well as collaterals of inhibitory projection neurons. These terminals had a significantly higher numerical density in the NAc core than in the shell but were prevalent in both regions, suggesting involvement in both motor and limbic functions. In each region, neurotensin was detected in a few NTR-immunoreactive axon terminals and in terminals that formed symmetric, inhibitory type synapses with NTR-labeled somata and dendrites. The NTR labeling, however, was not seen within these synapses and, instead, was localized to segments of dendritic and glial plasma membranes often near excitatory type synapses. Neuronal NTR immunoreactivity also was associated with cytoplasmic tubulovesicles and nuclear membranes. Our results suggests that, in the NAc shell and core, NTR is targeted mainly to presynaptic sites, playing a role in the regulated secretion and/or retrograde signaling in diverse, neurotransmitter-specific neurons. The findings also support a volume mode of neurotensin actions, specifically affecting excitatory transmission through activation of not only axonal but also dendritic and glial NTR.
The volume of nucleus HVc of the avian song system varies greatly both among and within songbird species, and is positively correlated to song complexity in many species. Moreover, the number of neurons in HVc predicts the ability of individual zebra finches to imitate song accurately. To better understand this brain/behavior relationship, we used the retrograde tracer Fast Blue to assess how specific HVc neuronal subpopulations contribute to variation in overall HVc neuron number in adult male zebra finches. We also investigated whether sibling order predicts the number of HVc neurons and/or yolk levels of testosterone, a hormone that might regulate the development of HVc. We report that total HVc neuron number is consistently and independently predicted by the size of each of its two projection populations, suggesting that the proportional makeup of HVc is tightly regulated at least in male zebra finches. Also, while we failed to detect a significant effect of sibling order on either the number of neurons in HVc or yolk testosterone concentration, we found that clutch of origin made a large contribution to variation in both early hormone levels and HVc neuron number.
Extracellular ATP evoked two excitatory responses in hippocampal neuroblastoma cells (HN2). The first, an opening of a receptor-operated non-selective cation channel and the second was a leftward shift in Na+ channel activation. Both ATP (5-1000 microM) and 2',3'-(4-benzoyl)-benzoyl-ATP (Bb-ATP, 50 microM) activated a non-selective cation current reversing near 0 mV and shifted the Na+ activation and inactivation curves to the left. Based on a comparison of a series of agonists and antagonists, the inward current appeared to be partially mediated by activation of a P2X7 receptor, although hybrid channels cannot be ruled out. The shift in Na+ channel gating could be separated from the opening of the cation channel, as application of the P2Y antagonist Reactive Blue-2 and GTP shifted the Na+ current activation to the left but failed to elicit the inward cation current. Both responses to ATP and Bb-ATP were insensitive to block by the P2X antagonist suramin (300 microM) but were prevented by incubation in oxidized ATP (200 microM); a putative P2X7 receptor antagonist. Prior screening of the surface negative charge of the membrane with a high concentration of divalent cations prevented both responses. We suggest that ATP4- activates a P2X receptor and becomes trapped on a site, on or near the Na+ channel. Activation of the P2X receptor leads to the opening of a non-specific cation channel, while the binding of ATP4- leads to a modified charge sensed by the Na+ channel, similar to what occurs in the presence of charged amphiphiles as well as a number of beta-scorpion toxins.
The effects of dextromethorphan and its metabolite dextrorphan on morphine, methamphetamine and nicotine self-administration and on responding for a nondrug reinforcer (water) were assessed in rats. Both dextromethorphan and dextrorphan decreased morphine self-administration at 10-30 mg/kg, s.c., decreased methamphetamine self-administration at 20 and 30 mg/kg, s.c., and decreased nicotine self-administration at 5-30 mg/kg, s.c.; doses of both drugs less than 40 mg/kg, s.c. did not affect responding for water. The equal potencies of dextromethorphan and dextrorphan suggest mediation of these effects by a non-NMDA receptor mechanism, possibly involving blockade of alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors. The results also suggest that dextromethorphan should be tested extensively as a potential treatment for diverse populations of drug-abusing patients.
To gain insight into the role of the recently identified Drosophila seven transmembrane receptor family, we analyzed the cellular and subcellular localization of a member of this family, OR43b. The OR43b receptor is expressed exclusively in a subset of olfactory neurons in the third antennal segment. Consistent with a direct role in odorant transduction, receptor protein is concentrated within the dendrites, but is also present in the axons of the olfactory neurons in which it is expressed. OR43b protein is only detectable relatively late in development suggesting it may not be required for synaptic target choice of the olfactory neurons in which it is expressed. Flies carrying deletions removing one copy of OR43b have the same number of OR43b positive cells in the antenna as flies with two copies, suggesting that simple allelic exclusion of odor receptors may not occur in Drosophila. We show the OR43b gene on the balancer chromosome SM5 is expressed at reduced levels and contains nucleotide polymorphisms predicted to alter two amino acids in the receptor, including an arginine(128) to proline substitution in the first extracellular loop. The subcellular localization of OR43b in olfactory neurons supports the idea that some of the recently identified family of seven transmembrane receptors are odor receptors, and that Drosophila and vertebrates may differ in the developmental processes used to establish the neuronal architecture of the olfactory system.
The transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) plays critical roles in neuronal survival and plasticity and in activation of immune responses. The activation of NF-kappaB has been closely associated with changes in intracellular calcium levels, but the relationship between the two remains unclear. Here we report that inhibition of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) d-myo-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3))-gated calcium release caused decreased basal NF-kappaB DNA-binding activity in cultured rat cortical neurons. Activation of NF-kappaB in response to tumor necrosis factor-alpha and glutamate was completely abolished when IP(3) receptors were blocked, and NF-kappaB activation in response to depletion of ER calcium by thapsigargin treatment was also decreased by IP(3) receptor blockade. We further investigated the relationship between IP(3) receptor activation and NF-kappaB activity using a cell-free system. Microsomes enriched in the ER were isolated from adult rat cerebral cortex, resuspended, and treated with agents that induce or inhibit ER calcium release. They were then recentrifuged, and the supernatant was added to cytoplasmic extract isolated from the same source tissue. We found that microsomes released an NF-kappaB-stimulating signal in response to activation of IP(3) receptors or inhibition of the ER Ca(2+)-ATPase, but not in response to ryanodine. Studies of intact cells and cell-free preparations indicated that the signal released from the ER was not calcium and was heat- and trypsin-sensitive. Our data suggest that activation of IP(3) receptors is required for a major component of both constitutive and inducible NF-kappaB binding activity in neurons and that decreasing ER intraluminal calcium levels triggers release of a diffusible NF-kappaB-activating signal from the ER.
Mouse models of neurological abnormalities are only valuable if accurately assessed. The three-stage SHIRPA procedure is used for the standardised assessment of mouse phenotype and has been reported in a high throughput experiment in which different mutants were ascertained at one age point using stage 1 of the protocol. In this study we have validated SHIRPA using a large cohort with one single mutation, 'legs at odd angles that causes neurological dysfunction. The cohort aged from 1 to 16 months during this study and this is the first longitudinal SHIRPA analysis.
What strategies are used in learning to control new movements? The present investigation sought to understand this process by analyzing the changes in whole-body kinematics that occurred when subjects attempted to learn an unusual kicking movement. Five novices were taught a capoeira kick that involved both the upper and lower body for balance and co-ordination. Subjects performed two sets of 60 consecutive kicks, 24 h apart. Gradual changes in the body movement and the initial posture were found. Four subjects reduced the dynamic counter-twist associated with kick initiation. These subjects also adopted a more forward initial body lean. This gradual change in initial posture appeared to obviate the early counter-twist and to facilitate both the equilibrium and the goal directed components of the kick.


The ability to abstract principles or rules from direct experience allows behaviour to extend beyond specific circumstances to general situations. For example, we learn the 'rules' for restaurant dining from specific experiences and can then apply them in new restaurants. The use of such rules is thought to depend on the prefrontal cortex (PFC) because its damage often results in difficulty in following rules. Here we explore its neural basis by recording from single neurons in the PFC of monkeys trained to use two abstract rules. They were required to indicate whether two successively presented pictures were the same or different depending on which rule was currently in effect. The monkeys performed this task with new pictures, thus showing that they had learned two general principles that could be applied to stimuli that they had not yet experienced. The most prevalent neuronal activity observed in the PFC reflected the coding of these abstract rules.

Nitric oxide (NO) is an intercellular messenger molecule in the nervous system and exerts its action in many regions by generating cyclic GMP (cGMP) via soluble guanylyl cyclase. In this study, on the male guinea pig, we have analyzed the localization of cGMP in some autonomic ganglia with immunohistochemistry after stimulation with sodium nitroprusside (SNP) as NO donor, and made correlations with the NO synthesizing enzyme NO synthase (NOS), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and some neuropeptides. The putative target neurons for NO were examined in the anterior pelvic ganglia (APGs), as well as some pre- and paravertebral sympathetic ganglia. The results show that cGMP-like immunoreactivity (LI) in the APG was in most cases observed in the TH-positive, NOS-negative neuron population after SNP stimulation, whereas the NOS-expressing cholinergic population mostly lacked detectable cGMP-LI. In the pre- and paravertebral ganglia, SNP stimulation increased cGMP levels to a much lesser extent than in the APGs. cGMP was also observed in blood vessels, in the ganglion capsule, and in some cases. possibly in satellite cells. We propose, as one alternative, that there is a functional, intraganglionic regulatory loop between the parasympathetic and sympathetic divisions of the APG, using the NO/cGMP pathway.
Our laboratory and others have previously shown that glutamate transmission is required for chronic amphetamine-induced neuroadaptations, and that glutamate transmission itself is altered by chronic amphetamine administration. For example, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunit expression are altered in a region- and withdrawal-specific manner. The goal of this study was to determine whether repeated amphetamine administration influences the expression of two glutamate transporter subtypes, GLT-1 and EAAC1. Rats were treated with saline or 5 mg/kg amphetamine for 5 days (chronic saline and amphetamine groups, respectively), or saline for 4 days and 5 mg/kg amphetamine on day 5 (acute amphetamine group), and decapitated 24 h after the last injection. Tissue was dissected from brain regions involved in the psychomotor effects of amphetamine (nucleus accumbens, striatum, prefrontal cortex, ventral tegmental area, and substantia nigra). Levels of GLT-1 and EAAC1 were quantified by Western blotting and normalized to actin levels. We found no significant change in levels of GLT-1 or EAAC1 in response to either acute or chronic amphetamine treatment. These findings suggest that the transporter component of the glutamate system might not play a significant role in the alterations in glutamate transmission observed following repeated amphetamine administration.
5-HT4 receptors mediate several physiological effects of 5-HT, particularly in the central nervous system (CNS), heart and gut. Recently, several C-terminal splice variants of the human 5-HT4 (h5-HT4) receptor have been described, namely h5-HT4(a), h5-HT4(b), h5-HT4(c), h5-HT4(d) and h5-HT4(g). Previous tissue distribution data suggest some degree of specificity in the mRNA expression patterns of the different h5-HT4 receptor splice variants. However, comparison of the mRNA expression profiles of these splice variants is difficult due to the non-quantitative methods used, and in addition, there is very limited data on the expression of each splice variant in human CNS subregions. In the present study we used a single technique, TaqMan real time quantitative RT-PCR, to investigate the mRNA distribution of 5-HT4 receptor C-terminal splice variants in multiple human CNS and peripheral tissues. Using a primer/probe set that amplified all 5-HT4 splice variants (5-HT4pan), the highest CNS expression of 5-HT4 receptor mRNA was observed in basal ganglia, amygdala and hippocampus, consistent with previous studies. h5-HT4(a), h5-HT4(b), h5-HT4(c) and h5-HT4(g) were predominantly expressed in various CNS tissues, compared to most peripheral tissues, but there were differences in expression levels and distribution patterns of each variant. The distribution profile and expression levels observed for the 5-HT4(b) splice variant were virtually identical to that obtained with the 5-HT4pan primer/probe set, whilst the other splice variants were expressed at much lower levels and with different expression patterns obtained with both 5-HT4(b) and 5-HT4pan primer/probe sets. Highest levels of 5-HT4(g) were observed in the hypothalamus and cortex, whilst the 5-HT4(a) variant was highest in the amygdala. 5-HT4(c) expression was highest in the pituitary gland whilst 5-HT4(d) mRNA was only detected in the small intestine at very low levels and not in the CNS. In conclusion, we have shown quantitative differences in the mRNA distribution profiles of the 5-HT4 receptor C-terminal splice variants in human CNS subregions as well as peripheral tissues. In addition, our data suggests that the h5-HT4(b) variant is the most predominant form of the 5-HT4 receptor in humans.
Anorexia and weight loss are manifestations of inflammation seen both in patients and in experimental animal models such as the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated rat. Using in situ hybridization, the levels of mRNAs encoding proopiomelanocortin (POMC), neuropeptide Y (NPY), galanin, melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) were investigated in the rat hypothalamus after a single intraperitoneal dose (125 microg/kg) of LPS. Four hours after LPS injection the food intake was significantly decreased. POMC and CART mRNA levels were increased in the arcuate nucleus, and MCH, CART and galanin mRNAs were all decreased in the lateral hypothalamic area in LPS-treated rats. Levels of mRNAs for NPY and galanin in the arcuate nucleus, and for MCH and CART in the zona incerta did not change significantly after LPS treatment. These findings support the hypothesis that LPS-induced factors mediate signalling to the POMC/CART neurons in the arcuate nucleus which could lead to reduced food intake by decreasing MCH, CART and galanin synthesis in target lateral hypothalamic neurons.

The reduction in levels of the potentially toxic amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) has emerged as one of the most important therapeutic goals in Alzheimer's disease. Key targets for this goal are factors that affect the expression and processing of the Abeta precursor protein (betaAPP). Earlier reports from our laboratory have shown that a novel cholinesterase inhibitor, phenserine, reduces betaAPP levels in vivo. Herein, we studied the mechanism of phenserine's actions to define the regulatory elements in betaAPP processing. Phenserine treatment resulted in decreased secretion of soluble betaAPP and Abeta into the conditioned media of human neuroblastoma cells without cellular toxicity. The regulation of betaAPP protein expression by phenserine was posttranscriptional as it suppressed betaAPP protein expression without altering betaAPP mRNA levels. However, phenserine's action was neither mediated through classical receptor signaling pathways, involving extracellular signal-regulated kinase or phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activation, nor was it associated with the anticholinesterase activity of the drug. Furthermore, phenserine reduced expression of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter fused to the 5'-mRNA leader sequence of betaAPP without altering expression of a control chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter. These studies suggest that phenserine reduces Abeta levels by regulating betaAPP translation via the recently described iron regulatory element in the 5'-untranslated region of betaAPP mRNA, which has been shown previously to be up-regulated in the presence of interleukin-1. This study identifies an approach for the regulation of betaAPP expression that can result in a substantial reduction in the level of Abeta.
Adenosine and its endogenous precursor ATP are main components of the purinergic system that modulates cellular and tissue functions via specific adenosine and ATP receptors (P1 and P2 receptors), respectively. Although adenosine inhibits excitability and ATP functions as an excitatory transmitter in the central nervous system, little is known about the ability of P1 and P2 receptors to form new functional structures such as a heteromer to control the complex purinergic cascade. Here we have shown that G(i/o) protein-coupled A1 adenosine receptor (A1R) and Gq protein-coupled P2Y1 receptor (P2Y1R) coimmunoprecipitate in cotransfected HEK293T cells, suggesting the oligomeric association between distinct G protein-coupled P1 and P2 receptors. A1R and P2Y2 receptor, but not A1R and dopamine D2 receptor, also were found to coimmunoprecipitate in cotransfected cells. A1R agonist and antagonist binding to cell membranes were reduced by coexpression of A1R and P2Y1R, whereas a potent P2Y1R agonist adenosine 5'-O-(2-thiotriphosphate) (ADPbetaS) revealed a significant potency to A1R binding only in the cotransfected cell membranes. Moreover, the A1R/P2Y1R coexpressed cells showed an ADPbetaS-dependent reduction of forskolin-evoked cAMP accumulation that was sensitive to pertussis toxin and A1R antagonist, indicating that ADPbetaS binds A1R and inhibits adenylyl cyclase activity via G(i/o) proteins. Also, a high degree of A1R and P2Y1R colocalization was demonstrated in cotransfected cells by double immunofluorescence experiments with confocal laser microscopy. These results suggest that oligomeric association of A1R with P2Y1R generates A1R with P2Y1R-like agonistic pharmacology and provides a molecular mechanism for an increased diversity of purine signaling.
The distribution of neurons in the subiculum of the rat that give rise to subcortical connections was studied using retrograde labeling with horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheat germ agglutinin. Injections were made into the anteroventral thalamic nucleus, the medial mammillary nucleus, the nucleus accumbens, and the lateral septal nucleus. To facilitate the analysis, the hippocampal formation with adjacent cortices were &quot;flattened,&quot; which allowed the cutting of sections perpendicular to the full septotemporal axis. Cells projecting to the anteroventral thalamic nucleus (AV cells), the medial mammillary body (MMB cells), and the nucleus accumbens (ACC cells) were observed consistently throughout the entire septotemporal (dorsoventral) and transverse extent of the subiculum (from field CA1 of the hippocampus to the presubiculum). In the transverse plane, the three kinds of projection cells were arranged in a laminar fashion: The AV cells were observed in the deepest portion of the subicular pyramidal cell layer, the ACC cells were observed in the most superficial portion of the layer, and the MMB cells were observed in the middle portion of the layer. Although this laminar arrangement was observed at all septotemporal levels of the subiculum, it was most apparent at the septal level. At more temporal levels, the &quot;laminae&quot; shifted such that the superficially located ACC cells were more prominent in the proximal half of the subiculum, whereas the AV cells were shifted toward the distal half of the subiculum. The average size of somata of the AV cells was 72.3 microm(2), that of the ACC cells was 105.2 microm(2), and that of the MMB cells was 121.8 microm(2). The connectional and cytoarchitectonic data indicate that there is a distinct sublamination of the subicular pyramidal cell layer, suggesting that the subiculum may be analogous to the infragranular layer (layers V and VI) of the isocortex.


There have been recent dramatic advances in our understanding of the molecular mechanisms governing the elaboration of mature tissue-specific cellular subpopulations from embryonic stem (ES) cells. These investigations have generated a range of new biological and potential therapeutic reagents to allow us to dissect specific stages of mammalian development that were previously experimentally inaccessible. Ultimately, we will be able to reconstitute seminal signaling pathways to promote regeneration of the nervous system. Totipotent ES cells possess an unlimited proliferative capacity that make them attractive candidates for use in a series of innovative transplantation paradigms. Elucidation of the molecular and physiologic properties of ES cells also has important implications for our understanding of the integrative cellular processes underlying neural induction, patterning of the neural tube, neural lineage restriction and commitment, neuronal differentiation, regional neuronal subtype specification, and the specific pathological consequences of alterations in discrete components of these fundamental neurodevelopmental pathways. In addition, recent experimental observations suggest that neurodegenerative disease pathology may involve alterations in a range of progressive neural inductive and neurodevelopmental events through novel biological mechanisms that result in sublethal impairments in cellular homeostasis within evolving regional neuronal precursor populations containing the mutant proteins, culminating in increased vulnerability of their differentiated neuronal progeny to late-onset apoptosis. Future discoveries in ES cell research will offer unique conceptual and therapeutic perspectives that representing an alternative to neural stem cell therapeutic strategies for ameliorating the pathologic consequences of a broad range of genetic and acquired insults to the developing, adult, and aging brain. Evolving regenerative strategies for both neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases will likely involve the targeting of vulnerable regional neural precursor populations during &quot;presymptomatic&quot; clinicopathological stages prior to the occurrence of irrevocable neural cell injury and cell death.
The crystal structure of SERCA1a (skeletal-muscle sarcoplasmic-reticulum/endoplasmic-reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase) has recently been determined at 2.6 A (note 1 A = 0.1 nm) resolution [Toyoshima, Nakasako, Nomura and Ogawa (2000) Nature (London) 405, 647-655]. Other P-type ATPases are thought to share key features of the ATP hydrolysis site and a central core of transmembrane helices. Outside of these most-conserved segments, structural similarities are less certain, and predicted transmembrane topology differs between subclasses. In the present review the homologous regions of several representative P-type ATPases are aligned with the SERCA sequence and mapped on to the SERCA structure for comparison. Homology between SERCA and the Na,K-ATPase is more extensive than with any other ATPase, even PMCA, the Ca(2+)-ATPase of plasma membrane. Structural features of the Na,K-ATPase are projected on to the Ca(2+)-ATPase crystal structure to assess the likelihood that they share the same fold. Homology extends through all ten transmembrane spans, and most insertions and deletions are predicted to be at the surface. The locations of specific residues are examined, such as proteolytic cleavage sites, intramolecular cross-linking sites, and the binding sites of certain other proteins. On the whole, the similarity supports a shared fold, with some particular exceptions.

Cholinergic neurons expressing substance P receptor (SPR, NK(1)) were examined in the rat brain using double immunofluorescence. The distribution of SPR-like immunoreactive (SPR-LI) neurons completely overlapped with that of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-LI neurons in the medial septal nucleus, the nucleus of diagonal band of Broca, the magnocellular preoptic nucleus, the substantia innominata of basal forebrain, the caudate-putamen, and the ventral pallidum of the basal ganglia. In the mesopontine tegmentum and the cranial motor nuclei of the brainstem, the distribution of SPR-LI and ChAT-LI neurons was partially overlapping. Neurons showing both SPR-like and ChAT-like immunoreactivities, however, were predominantly found above basal forebrain regions and 82-90% of these ChAT-LI neurons displayed SPR-like immunoreactivity, in addition to the confirmatory observation that 100% of the ChAT-LI neurons exhibit SPR-like immunoreactivity in the basal ganglia. In contrast, neurons double-labeled for SPR-like and ChAT-like immunoreactivities were hardly detected in aforementioned regions of the brainstem. The present study has provided morphological evidence for direct physiological modulation of cholinergic neurons by tachykinins through substance P receptor in the basal forebrain of the rat.
The behavioral consequences of acute heroin challenge (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) were measured in rats previously submitted to repeated administration of increasing doses of the synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist, R(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(morpholinyl)methyl]pyrrolo-[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazinyl]-(1-naphthalenyl) methanone mesylate (WIN55212.2) (first day 2 mg/kg, second day 4 mg/kg, third day 8 mg/kg) or vehicle. Heroin administration to rats pretreated with vehicle produced catalepsy. The same dose of heroin in WIN55212.2-pretreated rats was followed by a marked increase of locomotor activity with stereotyped and non-stereotyped behaviors. These effects were blocked by the opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone. These findings indicate that pretreatment with WIN55212.2 produces cross-sensitization to heroin in the rat. These changes might reflect long-lasting changes of receptor population or transcriptional mechanisms in the mesolimbic system.
We report the successful transfer of a fully functional lac operator-repressor gene regulatory system to the mouse. The key component is a lac repressor transgene that resembles a typical mammalian gene both in codon usage and structure and expresses functional levels of repressor protein in the animal. We used the repressor to regulate the expression of a mammalian reporter gene consisting of the tyrosinase promoter embedded with three short lac operator sequences and the tyrosinase coding sequence. Pigmentation of the mouse was controlled by the interaction of the lac repressor with the regulatable Tyrosinase transgene in a manner that was fully reversible by the lactose analog IPTG. Direct control of mammalian promoters by the lac repressor provides tight, reversible regulation, predictable levels of de-repressed expression, and the promise of reversible control of the endogenous genome.
Autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD), including Graves' disease (GD) and Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT), is caused by multiple genetic and environmental factors. The clinical and immunological features of GD and HT are distinct; however, there are multiplex families with both GD and HT, and cases in which GD evolves into HT. Thus, there may be specific susceptibility loci for GD or HT, and common loci controlling the susceptibility to both GD and HT may exist. A genome-wide analysis of data on 123 Japanese sib-pairs affected with AITD was made in which GD- or HT-affected sib-pairs (ASPs) were studied to detect GD- or HT-specific susceptibility loci, and all AITD-ASPs were used to detect AITD-common susceptibility loci. Our study revealed 19 regions on 14 chromosomes (1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 18 and 22) where the multipoint maximum LOD score (MLS) was &gt;1. Especially, chromosome 5q31-q33 yielded suggestive evidence for linkage to AITD as a whole, with an MLS of 3.14 at D5S436, and chromosome 8q23-q24 yielded suggestive evidence for linkage to HT, with an MLS of 3.77 at D8S272. These observations suggest the presence of an AITD susceptibility locus at 5q31-q33 and a HT susceptibility locus at 8q23-q24.
Homologues of Drosophila Trp (transient receptor potential) form plasma membrane channels that mediate Ca(2+) entry following the activation of phospholipase C by cell surface receptors. Among the seven Trp homologous found in mammals, Trp3 has been shown to interact with and respond to IP(3) receptors (IP(3)Rs) for activation. Here we show that Trp4 and other Trp proteins also interact with IP(3)Rs. The IP(3)R-binding domain also interacts with calmodulin (CaM) in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner with affinities ranging from 10 nm for Trp2 to 290 nm for Trp6. In addition, other binding sites for CaM and IP(3)Rs are present in the alpha but not the beta isoform of Trp4. In the presence of Ca(2+), the Trp-IP(3)R interaction is inhibited by CaM. However, a synthetic peptide representing a Trp-binding domain of IP(3)Rs inhibited the binding of CaM to Trp3, -6, and -7 more effectively than that to Trp1, -2, -4, and -5. In inside-out membrane patches, Trp4 is activated strongly by calmidazolium, an antagonist of CaM, and a high (50 microm) but not a low (5 microm) concentration of the Trp-binding peptide of the IP(3)R. Our data support the view that both CaM and IP(3)Rs play important roles in controlling the gating of Trp-based channels. However, the sensitivity and responses to CaM and IP(3)Rs differ for each Trp.
Leukolysin, originally isolated from human leukocytes, is the sixth member of the membrane-type matrix metalloproteinase (MT-MMP) subfamily with a potential glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. To understand its biological functions, we screened subpopulations of leukocytes and localized the expression of leukolysin at the mRNA level to neutrophils. Polyclonal and mono-specific antisera raised against a synthetic peptide from its hinge region recognized a major protein species at 56 kDa and several minor forms between 38 and 45 kDa in neutrophil lysates. In resting neutrophils, leukolysin is distributed among specific granules ( approximately 10%), gelatinase granules ( approximately 40%), secretory vesicles ( approximately 30%), and the plasma membrane ( approximately 20%), a pattern distinct from that of neutrophil MMP-8 and MMP-9. Consistent with its membrane localization and its reported GPI anchor, leukolysin partitions into the detergent phase of Triton X-114 and can be released from intact resting neutrophils by glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C. Phorbol myristate acetate stimulates neutrophils to discharge 100% of leukolysin from specific and gelatinase granules and approximately 50% from the secretory vesicles and plasma membrane, suggesting that leukolysin can be mobilized by physiological signals to the extracellular milieu as a soluble enzyme. Indeed, interleukin 8, a neutrophil chemoattractant, triggered a release of approximately 85% of cellular leukolysins by a process resistant to a mixture of proteinase inhibitors, including aprotinin, BB-94, pepstatin, and E64. Finally, purified recombinant leukolysin can degrade components of the extracellular matrix. These results not only establish leukolysin as the first neutrophil-specific MT-MMP but also implicate it as a cytokine/chemokine-regulated effector during innate immune responses or tissue injury.
To identify the amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) 1-42-degrading enzyme whose activity is inhibited by thiorphan and phosphoramidon in vivo, we searched for neprilysin (NEP) homologues and cloned neprilysin-like peptidase (NEPLP) alpha, NEPLP beta, and NEPLP gamma cDNAs. We expressed NEP, phosphate-regulating gene with homologies to endopeptidases on the X chromosome (PEX), NEPLPs, and damage-induced neuronal endopeptidase (DINE) in 293 cells as 95- to 125-kDa proteins and found that the enzymatic activities of PEX, NEPLP alpha, and NEPLP beta, as well as those of NEP and DINE, were sensitive to thiorphan and phosphoramidon. Among the peptidases tested, NEP degraded both synthetic and cell-secreted Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42 most rapidly and efficiently. PEX degraded cold Abeta1-40 and NEPLP alpha degraded both cold Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42, although the rates and the extents of the digestion were slower and less efficient than those exhibited by NEP. These data suggest that, among the endopeptidases whose activities are sensitive to thiorphan and phosphoramidon, NEP is the most potent Abeta-degrading enzyme in vivo. Therefore, manipulating the activity of NEP would be a useful approach in regulating Abeta levels in the brain.
Spatial and temporal regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) signaling depends on localized Ca(2+) microdomains containing the requisite molecular components for Ca(2+) influx, efflux, and signal transmission. Plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase (PMCA) isoforms of the &quot;b&quot; splice type contain predicted PDZ (PSD95/Dlg/ZO-1) interaction domains. The COOH-terminal tail of PMCA2b isolated the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) protein SAP97/hDlg as a binding partner in a yeast two-hybrid screen. The related MAGUKs SAP90/PSD95, PSD93/chapsyn-110, SAP97, and SAP102 all bound to the COOH-terminal tail of PMCA4b, whereas only the first three bound to the tail of PMCA2b. Coimmunoprecipitations confirmed the interaction selectivity between PMCA4b and SAP102 as opposed to the promiscuity of PMCA2b and 4b in interacting with other SAPs. Confocal immunofluorescence microscopy revealed the exclusive presence and colocalization of PMCA4b and SAP97 in the basolateral membrane of polarized Madin-Darby canine kidney epithelial cells. In hippocampal neurons, PMCA2b was abundant throughout the somatodendritic compartment and often extended into the neck and head of individual spines where it colocalized with SAP90/PSD95. These data show that PMCA &quot;b&quot; splice forms interact promiscuously but also with specificity with different members of the PSD95 family of SAPs. PMCA-SAP interactions may play a role in the recruitment and maintenance of the PMCA at specific membrane domains involved in local Ca(2+) regulation.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a CD4(+) Th1-mediated demyelinating disease of the CNS that serves as a model for multiple sclerosis. A critical event in the pathogenesis of EAE is the entry of both Ag-specific and Ag-nonspecific T lymphocytes into the CNS. In the present report, we investigated the role of the CXC chemokine CXCL10 (IFN-gamma-inducible protein-10) in the pathogenesis of EAE. Production of CXCL10 in the CNS correlated with the development of clinical disease. Administration of anti-CXCL10 decreased clinical and histological disease incidence, severity, as well as infiltration of mononuclear cells into the CNS. Anti-CXCL10 specifically decreased the accumulation of encephalitogenic PLP(139-151) Ag-specific CD4+ T cells in the CNS compared with control-treated animals. Anti-CXCL10 administration did not affect the activation of encephalitogenic T cells as measured by Ag-specific proliferation and the ability to adoptively transfer EAE. These results demonstrate an important role for the CXC chemokine CXCL10 in the recruitment and accumulation of inflammatory mononuclear cells during the pathogenesis of EAE.
The enteric nervous system (ENS) develops from neural crest cells that enter the gut, migrate, proliferate, and differentiate into neurons and glia. The growth factor glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) stimulates the proliferation and survival of enteric crest-derived cells. We investigated the intracellular signaling pathways activated by GDNF and their involvement in proliferation. We found that GDNF stimulates the phosphorylation of both the PI 3-kinase downstream substrate Akt and the MAP kinase substrate ERK in cultures of immunoaffinity-purified embryonic avian enteric crest-derived cells. The selective PI 3-kinase inhibitor LY-294002 blocked GDNF-stimulated Akt phosphorylation in purified crest cells, and reduced proliferation in cultures of dissociated quail gut. The ERK kinase (MEK) inhibitors PD 98059 and UO126 did not reduce GDNF-stimulated proliferation, although PD 98059 blocked GDNF-stimulated phosphorylation of ERK. We conclude that the PI 3-kinase pathway is necessary for the GDNF-stimulated proliferation of enteric neuroblasts.

Patients with prefrontal cortex lesions and controls were administered an implicit association task (IAT) that measured the degree of association between male and female names and their stereotypical attributes of strength and weakness. They also completed three questionnaires measuring their explicit judgment regarding gender-related stereotypical attributes. There were no between-group differences on the explicit measures. On the IAT, patients with dorsolateral lesions and controls showed a strong association, whereas patients with ventromedial prefrontal cortex lesions had a significantly lower association, between the stereotypical attributes of men and women and their concepts of gender. This finding provides support for the hypothesis that patients with ventromedial prefrontal lesions have a deficit in automatically accessing certain aspects of overlearned associated social knowledge.
Nucleus accumbens neurons show membrane potential fluctuations between a very negative resting membrane potential and periodical plateau depolarizations. Because action potential firing occurs only during the depolarized state, the control of transitions between states is important for information processing within this region, with an impact on accumbens-related behaviors. It has been proposed that ensembles of active neurons in the nucleus accumbens could be based on a population of cells depolarizing simultaneously into the UP state. In this study, in vivo intracellular recordings from accumbens neurons were performed simultaneously with local field potential recordings to examine whether the nucleus accumbens can exhibit synchronization of membrane potential states in a population of neurons. These simultaneous recordings indicated that local field potential shifts occurred synchronously with transitions to the UP state. Furthermore, manipulations that evoked prolonged plateau depolarizations also evoked field potentials of similar duration. Such signals likely occurred because of simultaneous membrane potential changes in a population of neurons. Together with our previous studies, these results suggest that membrane potential states in the nucleus accumbens can be synchronized by synaptic inputs from the hippocampus.
One important aspect of the functional architecture of primary visual cortex is the circuitry that accounts for the receptive field properties of neurons. The anatomy that underlies retinotopy and ocular dominance is well known, but no anatomical structure related to orientation selectivity has been found in primates. We examined whether the arrangement of local axon systems projecting within the cortical layers might be correlated with orientation preference in New World monkeys. We found that axons in layer 3 spread out from the site of a tracer injection in an anisotropic manner and that this elongated distribution is aligned with the preferred orientation recorded at each site. Moreover, within a few degrees of the foveal representation, the majority of the axon terminals fall within or just outside of the limits of the cortical mapping of the classical receptive field. Thus local axons produce a field of monosynaptic excitation that aligns with orientation axes and reaches neurons that have receptive fields which are adjacent in visual space.
The ability to express a behavior during the postnatal period may be related to developmental changes in the recruitment of particular neural systems. Here, we show that developmental changes in the functional interactions involving three cortical regions (the medial prefrontal cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, and anterior cingulate cortex) are associated with maturation of extinction behavior in infant rats. Postnatal day 17 (P17) and P12 pups were trained in a straight-alley runway on an alternating schedule of reward and nonreward [patterned single alternation (PSA)] or on a pseudorandom schedule of partial reinforcement (PRF); the pups were then injected with fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and shifted to continuous nonreward (extinction). Handled control groups exposed to the same training environment but not trained on a particular schedule were included. Among P17 pups, extinction proceeded faster in PSA pups relative to PRF pups. No differences were found between P12 groups. FDG uptake, an index of acute changes in functional activity, was quantified in the three cortical regions and 27 other brain regions of interest. A multivariate covariance analysis, seed partial least squares, revealed that functional relationships involving the three cortical regions and large-scale systems of regions throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the brain changed with training in P17 pups. The cortical regions were primarily uncoupled in the younger group. The data suggest that functional maturation of the frontal cortical regions and their interactions with other brain systems are related to the maturational shift in behavior.
Thyroid hormone (TH) is essential for proper brain development, acting through nuclear receptors that modulate the expression of specific genes in response to hormone binding. In a screen for genes regulated by TH in the rat cerebellum, we recently identified a novel gene, synaptotagmin-related gene 1 (Srg1). The Srg1 protein is structurally similar to synaptotagmins, a family of proteins involved in regulating neurotransmission. To elucidate a potential role of Srg1 in brain development, we have investigated the developmental and TH-regulated expression of Srg1 in the neonatal rat brain. We show that expression of both Srg1 RNA and protein is detected only in the brain and specifically in neurons. Srg1 mRNA and protein levels increase postnatally, nearing adult levels after the third postnatal week. Neonatal TH deficiency results in a significant reduction and delay in expression of both Srg1 RNA and protein. Using immunohistochemistry, we were able to detect Srg1 protein in numerous brain regions. In the cerebellum, Srg1 protein is localized to the molecular layer, indicating that it is highly expressed in granule cell axons. To further examine Srg1 expression in cerebellar granule cells (CGCs), we used an in vitro cell culture model. In primary cultures of CGCs, Srg1 expression is significantly reduced in the absence of TH. Srg1 mRNA is rapidly upregulated in cultured CGCs, suggesting a direct response to TH. Neuronal and TH-regulated expression of Srg1, together with its localization to neurites, implicates Srg1 as an important component of the program of gene expression induced by TH in the developing brain.
Axonal outgrowth during peripheral nerve regeneration relies on the ability of growth cones to traverse through an environment that has been altered structurally and along a basal lamina sheath to reinnervate synaptic targets. To promote migration, growth cones secrete proteases that are thought to dissolve cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesions. These proteases include the plasminogen activators (PAs), tissue PA (tPA) and urokinase PA (uPA), and their substrate, plasminogen. PA expression and secretion are upregulated in regenerating mammalian sensory neurons in culture. After sciatic nerve crush in mice, there was an induction of PA mRNAs in the sensory neurons contributing to the crushed nerve and an upregulation of PA-dependent activity in crushed nerve compared with sham counterparts during nerve regeneration. To further assess the role of the PA system during peripheral nerve regeneration, PA-dependent activity as well as recovery of sensory and motor function in the injured hindlimb were assessed in wild-type, tPA, uPA, and plasminogen knock-out mice. Protease activity visualized by gel zymography showed that after nerve crush, the upregulation of PA activity in the tPA and uPA knock-out mice was delayed compared with wild-type mice. Recovery of sensory function was assessed by toe pinch, footpad prick, and the toe-spreading reflex. All knock-out mice demonstrated a significant delay in hindlimb response to these sensory stimuli compared with wild-type mice. For each modality tested, the uPA knock-out mice were the most dramatically affected, showing the longest delay to initiate a response. These studies clearly showed that PAs were necessary for timely functional recovery by regenerating peripheral nerves.
Peripheral nerve regeneration is dependent on the ability of regenerating neurites to migrate through cellular debris and altered extracellular matrix at the injury site, grow along the residual distal nerve sheath conduit, and reinnervate synaptic targets. In cell culture, growth cones of regenerating axons secrete proteases, specifically plasminogen activators (PAs), which are believed to facilitate growth cone movement by digesting extracellular matrices and cell adhesions. In this study, the PA system was shown to be specifically activated in sensory neurons after sciatic nerve crush in adult mice. The number of sensory neurons expressing urokinase PA receptor (uPAR) mRNA levels increased above sham levels by 8 hr after crush, whereas the number of sensory neurons expressing uPA and tissue PA (tPA) mRNAs was significantly increased by 3 d after crush. PA mRNA levels were also increased at the crush site, with uPA mRNA elevated by 8 hr after crush and tPA and uPAR mRNA levels markedly increased by 7 d. PA-dependent enzymatic activity was significantly increased from 1 to 7 d after crush in nerves that had been crushed compared with uncrushed nerves. Immunohistochemistry showed that tPA was localized within regenerating axons of the sciatic nerve. There were no significant changes in plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 activity between crush and sham after the injury. These results clearly demonstrated that after injury the PA system was rapidly induced in sensory neurons, where it may play an important role in nerve regeneration in vivo.
The axonal projection from the retina to the tectum exhibits a precise topographic order in the mature chick such that neighboring ganglion cells send axons to neighboring termination zones in the contralateral tectum. The initial pattern formed during development is much less organized and is refined to the adult pattern during a discrete period of development. Refinement includes elimination of radically aberrant projections, such as those from the temporal side of the retina to posterior regions of the tectum, as well as a more subtle improvement in the topographic precision of the projection. The enzyme that synthesizes nitric oxide is expressed at high levels in the tectum during the developmental period in which the topography improves. Pharmacological blockade of nitric oxide synthesis during this period prevented elimination of topographically inappropriate retinotectal projections in a dose-dependent manner. This effect could not be duplicated by treatment of embryos with a vasoconstrictor, indicating that vascular changes were not a factor. These results show that nitric oxide is involved in refinement of the topography of the retinotectal projection as well as in other aspects of refinement of this projection in developing chick.
Selectivity to visual stimulus orientation is a basic cortical functional property believed to be crucial for normal vision. Maturation of this neuronal property requires neural activity. Still, it is unclear what might be the molecular basis for such activity-dependent processes and whether activity has an instructive or permissive role in development of orientation selectivity. There is strong evidence that the NMDA subtype of the glutamate receptor regulates activity-dependent mechanisms of ocular dominance plasticity during cortical development. For this reason, we have hypothesized that the NMDA receptor participates in activity-dependent mechanisms that sculpt orientation selectivity of cortical neurons. We used chronic in vivo infusion of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) to suppress NMDA receptor function in primary visual cortex during the period when orientation selectivity develops in ferrets. Chronic suppression of NMDA receptor function prevented the development of orientation and stimulus size selectivity in most cortical cells tested. In contrast, treatment with control sense or missense ODNs did not affect development of orientation selectivity, indicating specificity of effects. Importantly, antisense ODN treatment did not impair visually driven activity, which is required for development to occur. Moreover, orientation selectivity of cortical cells was not disrupted by antisense ODN treatment in mature animals, indicating developmental relevance of the effects. In conclusion, our findings document for the first time that cortical NMDA receptors are essential for the maturation of orientation selectivity. This result supports the notion that activity has an instructive role in sculpting the connections that underlie orientation selectivity in visual cortex.
Commonly used inbred murine strains differ substantially in their vulnerability to excitotoxic insults. We investigated whether differences in dendritic Ca(2+) signaling could underlie the differential vulnerability of C57BL/6 (resistant to kainate excitotoxicity) and C57BL/10 strains (vulnerable). A striking difference was found in fine dendrite Ca(2+) responses after kainate exposure. Ca(2+) signals in distal dendrites were large in C57BL/10 neurons, and, if a threshold concentration of approximately 1.5 microm was reached, a region of sustained high Ca(2+) was established in the distal dendritic tree. This region then served as an initiation site for a degenerative cascade, producing high Ca(2+) levels that slowly spread to involve the entire neuron and led to cell death. Dendritic Ca(2+) signals in C57BL/6 neurons were much smaller and did not trigger these propagating secondary responses. Strain differences in dendritic Ca(2+) signaling were also evident after tetanic stimulation of Schaffer collaterals. Ca(2+) responses were much larger and peaked earlier in distal dendrites of C57BL/10 compared with those in C57BL/6. Neurons from both strains had similar membrane properties and responded to kainate with intense action potential firing. Degenerative Ca(2+) responses were seen in both strains if soma Ca(2+) could be sustained above 1.5 microm. The early phases of secondary Ca(2+) responses were attributable to Ca(2+) influx and were abolished rapidly by buffered zero Ca(2+) saline. Taken together, these data indicate that the substantial difference in Ca(2+) signals in fine distal dendrites and in the initiation of spreading secondary responses may underlie the selective vulnerability of these neurons to excitotoxic insults.
Neurotransmitter release is a highly efficient secretory process exhibiting resistance to fatigue and plasticity attributable to the existence of distinct pools of synaptic vesicles (SVs), namely a readily releasable pool and a reserve pool from which vesicles can be recruited after activity. Synaptic vesicles in the reserve pool are thought to be reversibly tethered to the actin-based cytoskeleton by the synapsins, a family of synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoproteins that have been shown to play a role in the formation, maintenance, and regulation of the reserve pool of synaptic vesicles and to operate during the post-docking step of the release process. In this paper, we have investigated the physiological effects of manipulating synapsin levels in identified cholinergic synapses of Aplysia californica. When endogenous synapsin was neutralized by the injection of specific anti-synapsin antibodies, the amount of neurotransmitter released per impulse was unaffected, but marked changes in the secretory response to high-frequency stimulation were observed, including the disappearance of post-tetanic potentiation (PTP) that was substituted by post-tetanic depression (PTD), and increased rate and extent of synaptic depression. Opposite changes on post-tetanic potentiation were observed when synapsin levels were increased by injecting exogenous synapsin I. Our data demonstrate that the presence of synapsin-dependent reserve vesicles allows the nerve terminal to release neurotransmitter at rates exceeding the synaptic vesicle recycling capacity and to dynamically change the efficiency of release in response to conditioning stimuli (e.g., post-tetanic potentiation). Moreover, synapsin-dependent regulation of the fusion competence of synaptic vesicles appears to be crucial for sustaining neurotransmitter release during short periods at rates faster than the replenishment kinetics and maintaining synchronization of quanta in evoked release.
The cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) is a potent activator of human astrocytes, inducing or modulating expression of multiple proinflammatory genes via activation of the transcription factors nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and activator protein-1 (AP-1). In this study, we examined whether IL-1beta signaling is regulated in these cells by extracellular nucleotides that are released at high concentrations under inflammatory conditions and act as ligands for members of the P2 receptor family. Using reporter constructs and electromobility shift assays, we found that cotreatment of astrocyte cultures with ATP (1-100 microm) significantly potentiated IL-1beta-mediated activation of NF-kappaB and AP-1 and that ATP alone activated AP-1. These effects were blocked by the P2 receptor antagonists XAMR 0721, periodate-oxidized ATP, and suramin. A role for ATP in modulating IL-1beta-mediated inflammatory gene expression was supported further by the observation that ATP potentiated the IL-1beta-induced expression of IL-8 mRNA and protein but strongly downregulated IP-10 expression. Reverse transcription-PCR and cloning demonstrated expression of the ATP-responsive P2 receptor subtypes P2Y(1), P2Y(2), and P2X(7), as well as the ATP-insensitive receptor P2Y(4). ADP, a selective agonist for P2Y(1), produced results similar to or greater than those obtained using ATP, whereas 2'-3'-O-(4-benzoyl-benzoyl)-ATP, a selective agonist for P2X(7), was less effective than ATP. In contrast, UTP, a selective agonist for P2Y(2) and P2Y(4), was ineffective. These studies indicate that different P2 receptor subtypes play distinct roles in the modulation of IL-1beta-mediated signal transduction in human astrocytes, and that signaling via P2 receptors may fine-tune the transcription of genes involved in inflammatory responses in the human CNS.
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common of the senile dementias, the prevalence of which is increasing rapidly, with a projected 14 million affected worldwide by 2025. The signal transduction mechanisms that underlie the learning and memory derangements in AD are poorly understood. beta-Amyloid (Abeta) peptides are elevated in brain tissue of AD patients and are the principal component of amyloid plaques, a major criterion for postmortem diagnosis of the disease. Using acute and organotypic hippocampal slice preparations, we demonstrate that Abeta peptide 1-42 (Abeta42) couples to the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade via alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). In vivo elevation of Abeta, such as that exhibited in an animal model for AD, leads to the upregulation of alpha7 nAChR protein. alpha7 nAChR upregulation occurs concomitantly with the downregulation of the 42 kDa isoform of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK2) MAPK in hippocampi of aged animals. The phosphorylation state of a transcriptional mediator of long-term potentiation and a downstream target of the ERK MAPK cascade, the cAMP-regulatory element binding (CREB) protein, were affected also. These findings support the model that derangement of hippocampus signal transduction cascades in AD arises as a consequence of increased Abeta burden and chronic activation of the ERK MAPK cascade in an alpha7 nAChR-dependent manner that eventually leads to the downregulation of ERK2 MAPK and decreased phosphorylation of CREB protein.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is synthesized by small neuron cell bodies in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and is anterogradely transported to primary afferent terminals in the dorsal horn where it is involved in the modulation of painful stimuli. Here we show that BDNF is released in the rat isolated dorsal horn after chemical stimulation by capsaicin or electrical stimulation of dorsal roots. Capsaicin superfusion (1-100 microm) induced a dose-dependent release of BDNF, measured using ELISA. The highest dose of capsaicin also induced a depletion of BDNF protein in the dorsal horn. BDNF release was also seen after electrical stimulation of the dorsal roots at C-fiber strength. This release was encoded by specific patterns of afferent fiber stimulation. Neither continuous low-frequency (480 pulses, 1 Hz) nor tetanic high-frequency (300 pulses in 3 trains, 100 Hz) stimulation evoked release of BDNF, although substance P (SP) release was observed under both of these conditions. However, BDNF was released after short bursts of high-frequency stimulation (300 pulses in 75 trains, 100 Hz) along with SP and glutamate. The NMDA antagonist d-AP-5 inhibited electrically evoked BDNF release. BDNF release was also measured after systemic or intrathecal NGF treatment. This upregulated BDNF content in the DRG and increased the capsaicin-evoked release of BDNF. Similarly, the amount of BDNF released by burst stimulation was increased after NGF treatment. This activity-dependent release continued to be encoded solely by this stimulation pattern. These experiments demonstrate that BDNF release in the dorsal horn is encoded by specific patterns of afferent fiber stimulation and is mediated by NMDA receptor activation.
Rats with unilateral depletion of striatal dopamine (DA) show marked preferential use of the ipsilateral forelimb. Previous studies have shown that implementation of motor therapy after stroke improves functional outcome (Taub et al., 1999). Thus, we have examined the impact of forced use of the impaired forelimb during or soon after unilateral exposure to the DA neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). In one group of animals, the nonimpaired forelimb was immobilized using a cast, which forced exclusive use of the impaired limb for the first 7 d after infusion. The animals that received a cast displayed no detectable impairment or asymmetry of limb use, could use the contralateral (impaired) forelimb independently for vertical and lateral weight shifting, and showed no contralateral turning to apomorphine. The behavioral effects were maintained throughout the 60 d of observation. In addition to the behavioral sparing, these animals showed remarkable sparing of striatal DA, its metabolites, and the expression of the vesicular monoamine transporter, suggesting a decrease in the extent of DA neuron degeneration. Behavioral and neurochemical sparing appeared to be complete when the 7 d period of immobilization was initiated immediately after 6-OHDA infusion, only partial sparing was evident when immobilization was initiated 3 d postoperatively, and no sparing was detected when immobilization was initiated 7 d after 6-OHDA treatment. These results suggest that physical therapy may be beneficial in Parkinson's disease.
In many cell types, cell death induced by a variety of insults is accompanied by an increase in intracellular calcium. The Ca(2+) homeostatic mechanisms affected by such insults, however, have not been fully determined. Recent evidence indicates that kainic acid-induced seizures alter plasma membrane calcium ATPase mRNA expression within vulnerable hippocampal cell populations before the onset of cell death. We examined the effects of altering plasma membrane calcium ATPase expression on cell vulnerability in rat pheochromocytoma 12 cells. Pheochromocytoma 12 cells are vulnerable to Ca(2+) overload induced by the Ca(2+) ionophore A23187. Reverse transcriptase-PCR and Western blot data indicated that plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 4b constitutes a major calcium pump isoform in the pheochromocytoma 12 cells. Therefore, permanently transfected pheochromocytoma 12-derived cell lines were established that either over-expressed plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 4b, or suppressed the expression of the endogenous plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 4. Over-expressing clones were less vulnerable to Ca(2+)-mediated cell death induced by A23187 whereas &quot;antisense&quot; clones were considerably more susceptible. These data indicate that regulation of plasma membrane calcium ATPase expression may be critical to cellular survival when cells are exposed to pathological increases in intracellular calcium.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) binds to the TrkA tyrosine kinase and the p75 neurotrophin receptors. Depending upon which receptor is activated, NGF can induce differentiation or apoptosis. C6-2B glioma cells express the p75 receptor, but NGF decreases their growth only when TrkA is introduced (C6trk). It is unclear, however, whether TrkA reduces C6-2B cell growth by apoptosis or differentiation. To examine which mechanisms account for the anti-proliferative effect of NGF in these cells, we first analyzed whether NGF causes apoptosis by flow cytometry, two-site immunoassay and in situ TUNEL. None of these methods indicated that C6trk undergo apoptosis. Additional apoptotic markers, such as Bcl-2, Bax, Bad, p53, caspase 3, and NF-kappaB were also used. C6trk cells exhibited lower levels of Bcl-2 compared with the parental C6 mock cells, but no changes in the levels of other apoptotic proteins. Moreover, NGF increased AP-1 binding activity in C6trk cells, suggesting that NGF may induce differentiation. We then examined whether TrkA changes the glioma phenotype. In C6trk cells, but not in C6mock cells, NGF enhanced the levels of neuron-specific enolase as well as the levels of A2B5 and 2', 3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase, markers for oligodendrocytes, without affecting the expression of other neuronal markers. Our data suggest that the antiproliferative properties of TrkA may rely on its ability to induce differentiation of C6 cells from undifferentiated glioma to oligodendrocytes.
Microdialysis in conjunction with radioimmunoassay (RIA) were used to study the effects of acute d-amphetamine or dopamine (DA) receptor antagonists administration on extracellular concentrations of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the ventral striatum of the rat. One hour after the subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of saline, the DA-D(1) receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.3 mg/kg) or the DA-D(2/3) receptor antagonist raclopride (1.0 mg/kg), one additional s.c. injection of saline or d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg) was given. The dialysates were collected at 60-min intervals; CGRP-like immunoreactivities (-LI) were determined by RIA. d-Amphetamine significantly increased extracellular CGRP-LI concentrations compared to the control animals. Administration of either SCH 23390 or raclopride did not significantly affect CGRP-LI concentrations. Pretreatment with either SCH 23390 or raclopride abolished the stimulatory effect of d-amphetamine on CGRP-LI levels. The results show that d-amphetamine administration results in an increase in extracellular concentrations of CGRP in the ventral striatum through a mechanism that appears to involve stimulation of either DA-D(1) or DA-D(2/3) receptors. The results also indicate that changes in dopaminergic neurotransmission affect CGRP outflow in the ventral striatum in a phasic but not tonic manner.
1. Intracellular Mg(2+) (Mg(2+)(i)) blocks single-channel currents and modulates the gating kinetics of NMDA receptors. However, previous data suggested that Mg(2+)(i) inhibits whole-cell current less effectively than predicted from excised-patch measurements. We examined the basis of this discrepancy by testing three hypothetical explanations. 2. To test the first hypothesis, that control of free Mg(2+)(i) concentration ([Mg(2+)](i)) during whole-cell recording was inadequate, we measured [Mg(2+)](i) using mag-indo-1 microfluorometry. The [Mg(2+)](i) measured in cultured neurons during whole-cell recording was similar to the pipette [Mg(2+)] measured in vitro, suggesting that [Mg(2+)](i) was adequately controlled. 3. To test the second hypothesis, that open-channel block by Mg(2+)(i) was modified by patch excision, we characterised the effects of Mg(2+)(i) using cell-attached recordings. We found the affinity and voltage dependence of open-channel block by Mg(2+)(i) similar in cell-attached and outside-out patches. Thus, the difference between Mg(2+)(i) inhibition of whole-cell and of patch currents cannot be attributed to a difference in Mg(2+)(i) block of single-channel current. 4. The third hypothesis tested was that the effect of Mg(2+)(i) on channel gating was modified by patch excision. Results of cell-attached recording and modelling of whole-cell data suggest that the Mg(2+)(i)-induced stabilisation of the channel open state is four times weaker after patch excision than in intact cells. This differential effect of Mg(2+)(i) on channel gating explains why Mg(2+)(i) inhibits whole-cell NMDA responses less effectively than patch responses.
Tissue levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein were studied using enzyme immunoassay in different forebrain regions in the ipsi- and contralateral hemispheres of rats housed under enriched or standard conditions after the middle cerebral artery ligation. BDNF levels in the ipsilateral to ligation side was significantly higher only in the frontal cortex of standard as compared to enriched rats. However, BDNF overall was more abundant in standard than in enriched group. In addition, BDNF levels detected in the hippocampus and frontal cortex on the ischemic side of standard rats was higher as compared to contralateral side. The present study shows that housing conditions after permanent middle cerebral artery ligation leads to differential regulation of BDNF protein levels in forebrain regions which might have important implication for post-ischemic recovery.
Repeated social defeat followed by individual housing caused a long-term impairment of social memory in male rats. Social memory, as assessed in the social discrimination test using an intertrial interval of 3 min, was impaired for at least 8 weeks after the social defeat experience. Since social memory of male rodents depends on proper functioning of the sexually dimorphic vasopressin system, it was investigated whether a centrally active vasopressin fragment could restore the impaired social memory. Subcutaneous administration of 6 microg/kg of the vasopressin fragment desglycinamide-vasopressin (VP1-8) 40 days after social defeat slightly improved social memory in both control and socially defeated rats. It is concluded that social defeat followed by individual housing caused a long-term impairment of social memory, which was not restored by treatment with VP1-8.
Face recognition in sheep is qualitatively similar to that in humans in terms of its left visual field bias, and the effects of expertise and configural coding. The current study was designed to determine whether such effects are species specific by investigating the case of sheep recognising humans. It was found that the sheep could identify human faces and while they showed a small inversion-induced decline in discriminatory performance, this was significantly less than seen with sheep faces. In other aspects, there were qualitative differences with human face recognition compared with conspecific recognition. In contrast with sheep faces there was no left visual field advantage in the recognition of human faces and the internal features were not used at all as visual cues. The data suggest that these sheep, whilst being extensively exposed to interactions with humans, were unable to identify them with all the same 'expert' methods as were used to discriminate other sheep. This suggests that different neural systems may, to some extent, be used for recognition of sheep as opposed to human faces. The relative contribution to differential neural processing of the faces of the different species and the role of expertise are discussed.
It has been reported that intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of nociception/orphanin FQ (OFQ) can antagonize morphine analgesia, whereas i.c.v. OFQ antibody can reverse morphine tolerance. Nocistatin (NST) is a recently characterized neuropeptide possessing an antagonizing effect on OFQ. Here we examine whether i.c.v. NST would result in a reversal of morphine tolerance. The results showed that: (1) i.c.v. NST at doses of 0.005, 0.05, 0.5, 5 or 50 ng per rat produced a bell-shaped dose-dependent reversal of chronic morphine tolerance, with maximum response at 0.5 ng. (2) Acute morphine tolerance could also be reversed, albeit partially, by i.c.v. NST at 0.5 ng. (3) The reversal of acute and chronic morphine tolerance by NST was completely abolished when NST (0.5 ng) was co-injected with (8 microg) OFQ. Since OFQ and NST are derived from the same preprohormone, the profile of its splicing in the CNS may play an important role in determining the effectiveness of morphine analgesia.
Interactions between galanin and noradrenaline (NA) were studied in a locus coeruleus (LC) slice preparation using intracellular recording technique. Both galanin (10-100 nM) and NA induced an outward current. Idazoxan, an alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, blocked the NA- but not the galanin-induced outward current, indicating that different receptors mediate these responses. Moreover, the outward current induced by NA was enhanced and prolonged by preincubation with a low concentration of galanin (0.05-0.1 nM), which had no detectable effect on the membrane current by itself. This sensitizing effect may be of physiological importance and could be caused by galanin released from dendrites and soma of galanin/NA neurons and/or from galanin afferents. Thus, besides a direct action of galanin on locus coeruleus neurons, our results also indicate an indirect, modulating effect.
3-Nitropropionic acid (3NP) is a succinate dehydrogenase inhibitor classically used to create animal models of Huntington's disease (HD). However, the effects of this neurotoxin are highly variable in the Sprague-Dawley rat strain, impeding the interest of such model in neuroprotection assays. In the present study, we found that continuous s.c. infusion of 3NP in the Lewis rat strain produces homogeneous clinical impairments as well as highly reproducible striatal lesions according to their location and size. More especially, using quantitative reconstructions, we have determined, after 5 days of treatment, that the lesion was topologically reproducible in the lateral part of the striatum in all tested rats. Thus, 3NP-treated Lewis rat provides an improved animal model for testing neuroprotective strategies in HD.
Non-NMDA type glutamate receptors are present in rat taste buds. However, the function of those receptors is not yet known. Developmental changes in the glutamate receptors in taste cells may provide clues to their functional role. We used a cobalt staining technique to determine at which stage in development functional non-NMDA glutamate receptors first appeared. Cobalt-stained taste bud cells first appeared in 20-day-old rats. The number of cobalt-stained cells increased with age and reached a maximum at 45 days. The shape of stained cells looked similar at all age groups. Cobalt-labeled cells appeared to be correlated with synaptic, not taste, glutamate receptors.
The alpha7 nicotinic receptor (nAChR) is a ligand-gated ion channel mediating cholinergic transmission throughout the nervous system. To further characterize the function of this receptor, we generated mice expressing the alpha7 L250T nAChR mutation and demonstrated that homozygous (T/T) L250T mice die within 24 h of birth and display extensive apoptosis and abnormal layering within their cortex. We now demonstrate that mice with one alpha7 null and one L250T allele (-/T) show little apoptosis and normal development of their cortex yet exhibit the same lethal phenotype as T/T mice. Furthermore, L250T mice show normal levels of apoptosis in other nervous system regions expressing alpha7 nAChRs. These results suggest that apoptosis is not the cause of death for L250T neonatal mice.
Anti-migraine triptan drugs are 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonists which are thought to block the neurotransmitter/neuropeptide release from sensory nerve terminals and directly constrict blood vessel smooth muscles. In the present study, we have investigated the anatomical basis for a possible modulation of glutamate release from trigeminal ganglion neurons by 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonists and by 5-HT1F receptor agonists, using double immunohistochemical staining technique in the rat. The majority of 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D or 5-HT1F receptor positive neurons were also glutamate positive, but both 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D or 5-HT1F receptor single-labeled and glutamate single-labeled neurons were observed. These results suggest that 5-HT(1B/1D/1F) receptor agonists may modulate glutamate release, and that one mechanism of their anti-migraine action could be the blockade of glutamate release.
Many of the effects of nitric oxide are mediated by the direct modification of cysteine residues resulting in an adduct called a nitrosothiol. Here, we describe a novel method for detecting proteins that contain nitrosothiols. In this three-step procedure, nitrosylated cysteines are converted to biotinylated cysteines. Biotinylated proteins can then be detected by immunoblotting or can be purified by avidin-affinity chromatography. We include examples of the detection of S-nitrosylated proteins in brain lysates after in vitro S-nitrosylation, as well as the detection of endogenous S-nitrosothiols in selected neuronal proteins.

Fluorodeoxyglucose autoradiography, quantitative image analysis, and a multivariate tool (partial least squares) were used to assess distributed patterns of brain activation in postnatal day 17 and day 12 rat pups engaged in extinction of instrumental behavior. Pups were trained in a straight alley runway on an alternating reward schedule, or on a pseudorandom reward schedule, injected with fluorodeoxyglucose, and then shifted to continuous nonreward (extinction). Another group at each age served as handled controls. Day 17 pups trained on the alternating schedule demonstrated faster extinction rates compared to those trained on the pseudorandom schedule, a phenomenon known as the partial reinforcement extinction effect. No differences were found between day 12 groups. Partial least-squares analysis revealed age-related increases in fluorodeoxyglucose uptake across all three training conditions in the cingulate and frontal cortices, amygdala, midline thalamic nuclei, cerebellum, and in several brainstem regions. Training-related increases common to both age groups were found in the orbital frontal cortex, limbic thalamus, gigantocellular reticular nucleus, the somatosensory system, and cerebellum. Age-dependent training effects were found in the interpositus and medial cerebellar nuclei wherein fluorodeoxyglucose uptake increased in the day 12 alternation and pseudorandom groups relative to controls. Day 12 pups trained on the alternating schedule demonstrated increased uptake in the anterior dorsal thalamus relative to pseudorandom and control pups. Hence, a large-scale neural system comprised by somatosensory, cerebellar, and brainstem regions govern extinction behavior in preweanling rats. Recruitment of limbic structures may allow the older pups to modify extinction behavior based on prior learning.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) is an important satiety factor, acting via the vagus nerve to influence central feeding centers. CCK binding sites have been demonstrated in the vagal sensory nodose ganglion and within the nerve proper. Using in situ hybridization, expression of the CCK(A) and (B) receptors (Rs), as well as of CCK itself, was studied in the normal nodose ganglion (NG), and after vagotomy, starvation and high-fat diet. CCK(A)-R mRNA expression in dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) was also explored. In the NG, 33% of the neuron profiles (NPs) contained CCK(A)-R mRNA and in 9% we observed CCK(B)-R mRNA. CCK mRNA was not found in normal NGs. Peripheral vagotomy decreased the number of CCK(A)-R mRNA-expressing NPs, dramatically increased the number of CCK(B)-R mRNA, and induced CCK mRNA and preproCCK-like immunoreactivity in nodose NPs. No significant differences in the number of NPs labelled for either mRNA species were detected following 48 h food deprivation or in rats fed a high-fat content diet. In DRGs, 10% of the NPs expressed CCK(A)-R mRNA, a number that was not affected by either axotomy or inflammation. This cell population was distinct from neurons expressing calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNA. These results demonstrate that the CCK(A)-R is expressed by both viscero- and somatosensory primary sensory neurons, supporting a role for this receptor as a mediator both of CCK-induced satiety and in sensory processing at the spinal level. The stimulation of CCK and CCK(B)-R gene expression following vagotomy suggests a possible involvement in the response to injury for these molecules.
Chronic stress exposure consistently impairs the reactivity to aversive and pleasurable stimuli in rats; these behavioral modifications are associated with a decrease in dopamine output in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAcS). However, when rats that have already acquired an appetitive behavior are exposed to chronic stress, they develop an impaired reactivity to avoidable aversive stimuli while retaining the appetitive behavior. The dissociation between these two behavioral traits was used to study whether the decreased dopaminergic activity in the NAcS was connected to either of the two deficits. Dopamine output was studied through microdialysis as dopamine accumulation following re-uptake inhibition by cocaine. When rats that had previously acquired the appetitive behavior were exposed to chronic stress, they showed a dopaminergic transmission in the NAcS similar to that of controls and significantly higher than that of chronically stressed animals. Thus, dopamine output in the NAcS was consistently associated to the acquisition and maintenance of appetitive behavior, while the expression of a deficit in avoidance appeared to be independent of it.
The antagonist radioligand [3H]GR125743 and the agonist radioligand [3H]5-HT were used to investigate the pharmacological characteristics of the G protein uncoupled agonist low-affinity and G protein coupled agonist high-affinity conformations of the wild-type and mutant human 5-hydroxytryptamine 1B (5-HT1B) receptors. We found that substitution of phenylalanine 185 in transmembrane region IV by alanine or methionine resulted in a reduced number of receptors in the coupled conformation, as well as a reduced affinity of 5-HT for the uncoupled conformation. In contrast, substitution of phenylalanine 331 in transmembrane region VI by alanine increased the affinity of 5-HT for the uncoupled conformation 11-fold thus reducing the agonist low-affinity to agonist high-affinity (K(il)/K(ih)) ratio 5-fold. This reduced ratio was correlated with a significantly reduced intrinsic activity of 5-HT previously determined by its ability to inhibit forskolin-stimulated cAMP production. In conclusion, these results show that single amino acid substitutions can selectively change the affinity of 5-HT for the G protein uncoupled conformation of the 5-HT1B receptor and alter the intrinsic activity of the ligand.
The antioxidant-responsive element (ARE) plays an important role in the induction of phase II detoxifying enzymes including NADPH:quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1). We report herein that activation of the human NQO1-ARE (hNQO1-ARE) by tert-butylhydroquinone (tBHQ) is mediated by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-kinase), not extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk1/2), in IMR-32 human neuroblastoma cells. Treatment with tBHQ significantly increased NQO1 protein without activation of Erk1/2. In addition, PD 98059 (a selective mitogen-activated kinase/Erk kinase inhibitor) did not inhibit hNQO1-ARE-luciferase expression or NQO1 protein induction by tBHQ. Pretreatment with LY 294002 (a selective PI3-kinase inhibitor), however, inhibited both hNQO1-ARE-luciferase expression and endogenous NQO1 protein induction. In support of a role for PI3-kinase in ARE activation we show that: 1) transfection of IMR-32 cells with constitutively active PI3-kinase selectively activated the ARE in a dose-dependent manner that was completely inhibited by treatment with LY 294002; 2) pretreatment of cells with the PI3-kinase inhibitors, LY 294002 and wortmannin, significantly decreased NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) nuclear translocation induced by tBHQ; and 3) ARE activation by constitutively active PI3-kinase was blocked completely by dominant negative Nrf2. Taken together, these data clearly show that ARE activation by tBHQ depends on PI3-kinase, which lies upstream of Nrf2.
The aim of the present study was to verify the expression of tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha mRNA by semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in unstimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (MNCs) of 15 relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) patients who underwent treatment with IFN-beta 1a (6 millions of international units (MIU) i.m. once a week) and in 15 untreated MS patients matched for age and expanded disability status score (EDSS). At the same time the expression of TNF-alpha mRNA was assessed in 10 healthy age-matched control subjects. All MS patients were assessed at the basal time and after 6 months. At the basal time, the band of TNF-alpha mRNA was detectable in 12 out of the 15 untreated patients and in 13 out of the 15 patients who underwent IFN-beta 1a treatment. The higher TNF-alpha mRNA was evident in patients with gadolinium-enhancing lesions. At the 6-month follow-up, 13 out of the 15 untreated patients still had detectable values of TNF-alpha mRNA and no significant difference emerged when compared with basal time. On the contrary, the expression of TNF-alpha mRNA was absent at the same time in nine out of the 15 patients treated with IFN-beta 1a. A longitudinal analysis carried out monthly in eight MS patients (four untreated and four treated) revealed a transient increase in TNF-alpha mRNA expression in MNCs of all four treated patients in the first 3 months, supporting previous findings of an early immunoenhancing effect of IFN-beta 1a. This early activation is followed by an inhibitory effect of IFN-beta 1a on TNF-alpha mRNA expression in about 2/3 of treated MS patients when assessed at 6 months. Further long-term studies are needed to confirm this immunomodulatory effect of IFN-beta 1a not only on TNF-alpha but also on other cytokines of Th(1)and Th(2)types.
The hexagonal brood-rearing cells inside the nest combs of the hornet Vespa orientalis are uniform in both their architecture and orientation. We have discovered that each cell contains a minute crystal that projects down from the centre of its domed roof and has a composition typical of the magnetic mineral ilmenite. These tiny crystals form a network that may act like a surveyor's spirit-level, helping the hornets to assess the symmetry and balance of the cells and the direction of gravity while they are building the comb.
Ligand-dependent stabilization of the estrogen receptor (ER) is often postulated, with limited support from experimental data. We studied the thermal unfolding of recombinant ERalpha by circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy. The T(M) of unfolding of ERalpha was 38 +/- 2.4 degrees C, and the van't Hoff enthalpy of unfolding was 31.7 +/- 3.4 kcal/mol in the absence of ligands. Addition of estradiol (E(2)) increased the T(M) to 43.6 +/- 2.3 degrees C, while addition of E(2) and an oligonucleotide harboring the estrogen response element (ERE) increased the T(M) to 47.9 +/- 1.6 degrees C. Addition of the antiestrogen 4-hydroxytamoxifen (HT) alone did not increase the T(M); however, a combination of HT and the ERE increased the T(M) to 48.9 +/- 1.0 degrees C. The ERE alone increased the T(M) to 46.1 +/- 0.9 degrees C. Addition of E(2) alone had no effect on the apparent enthalpy of unfolding; however, the ERE alone increased the apparent enthalpy from 31.7 to 36.1 kcal/mol. ERalpha samples containing the ERE also exhibited an increase in the negative ellipticity at 208 and 222 nm, relative to that of ligand-free ERalpha, suggesting a stabilization of the alpha-helix. CD data analysis further showed that the presence of the ERE caused a large increase in alpha-helical content of ERalpha in both the presence and absence of the ligands. This increase in alpha-helical content of ERalpha was not observed in the presence of a nonspecific oligonucleotide. These results show that the ERE can increase the thermal stability of ERalpha, enhance its alpha-helical content, and facilitate the cooperativity of the folding transition.
Recent experiments show that synchronous events can appear to an observer to occur at different times. Neural processing time delays are offered as an explanation of these temporal illusions, but equating perceived time with processing time leads to some thorny philosophical problems.
Cell death is widespread in the developing nervous system and is under complex regulation by numerous intra- and intercellular mechanisms. Blockade of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor has been shown to promote cell death in the developing brain (Ikonomidou et al., 1999), suggesting that afferent functional activation is an important regulator of cell survival. The olfactory bulb, the first central relay for olfactory information from the nose, is well suited for examining the role of afferent activity in neuronal development. Functional deprivation is easily performed by surgical blockade of airflow to one side of the nasal passage, which results in dramatic alterations in postnatal development of the bulb (Brunjes, 1994), including enhanced neuronal loss (Frazier and Brunjes, 1988; Najbauer and Leon, 1995). The present report examined the specific role of NMDA receptor activation in regulating cell survival within the rat bulb. Pharmacological blockade of receptors with the noncompetitive channel blocker MK-801 (3 x 0.5 mg/kg i.p.) resulted in profound increases in cell death within 24 h. Furthermore, in contrast to other regions, where the effects of receptor blockade were confined to the first 2 postnatal weeks (Ikonomidou et al., 1999), enhancement of cell death was seen in the deeper granule cell-containing regions of the bulb with injections as late as postnatal day 28. In addition, the effects of MK-801 were much more dramatic than those seen after unilateral naris closure, suggesting that NMDA receptor activation may mediate additional survival pathways in the bulb beyond that provided by first nerve input.
Conditional targeted ablation of specific cell populations in living transgenic animals is a very powerful strategy to determine cell functions in vivo. This approach would be of particular value to study the functions of distinct neuronal populations; however, the transgene of choice for conditional cell ablation studies in mice, the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase gene, cannot be used to ablate neurones as its principal mode of action relies on cell proliferation. Here we report that expression of the E.coli nitroreductase gene (Ntr) and metabolism of the prodrug CB1954 (5-aziridin-1-yl-2-4-dinitrobenzamide) to its cytotoxic derivative can be used to conditionally and acutely ablate specific neuronal populations in vivo. As proof of principal, we have ablated olfactory and vomeronasal receptor neurones by expressing Ntr under the control of the olfactory marker protein (OMP) gene promoter. We demonstrate that following CB1954 administration, olfactory and vomeronasal receptor neurones expressing the transgene were selectively eliminated from the olfactory epithelium (OE), and projections to the olfactory bulb (OB) were lost. The functional efficacy of cell ablation was demonstrated using a highly sensitive behavioural test to show that ablated mice had lost the olfactory ability to discriminate distinct odors and were consequently rendered anosmic. Targeted expression of Ntr to specific neuronal populations using conventional transgenes, as described here, or by &quot;knock-in&quot; gene targeting using embryonic stem cells may be of significant value to address the functions of distinct neuronal populations in vivo.
Around the time of birth, male rats express higher levels of progesterone receptors in the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN) than female rats, suggesting that the MPN may be differentially sensitive to maternal hormones in developing males and females. Preliminary evidence suggests that this sex difference depends on the activation of estrogen receptors around birth. To test whether estrogen receptor alpha (ER alpha) is involved, we compared progesterone receptor immunoreactivity (PRir) in the brains of male and female neonatal mice that lacked a functional ER alpha gene or were wild type for the disrupted gene. We demonstrate that males express much higher levels of PRir in the MPN and the ventromedial nucleus of the neonatal mouse brain than females, and that PRir expression is dependent on the expression of ER alpha in these regions. In contrast, PRir levels in neocortex are not altered by ER alpha gene disruption. The results of this study suggest that the induction of PR via ER alpha may render specific regions of the developing male brain more sensitive to progesterone than the developing female brain, and may thereby underlie sexual differentiation of these regions.
Circadian rhythms in Drosophila depend upon expression of the timeless (tim) and period (per) genes, which encode interacting components of the endogenous clock. These two clock genes show a robust circadian oscillation in transcription rate as well as RNA and protein levels. Transcriptional activation of both genes requires the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) PAS transcription factors dCLOCK (dCLK) and CYCLE (CYC), which bind E-box elements. We investigated the role of E-box elements in regulating behavioral rhythmicity and tim gene expression. We show that mutation of the upstream E-box in the tim gene prevents the rescue by tim cDNA sequences of the arrhythmic tim(01) phenotype. RNA encoded by this mutated tim transgene fails to cycle and is expressed at low levels. While a tim transgene carrying a wild-type E-box restores behavioral rhythms, tim RNA levels are intermediate to those of the mutant E-box transgenic lines and wild type, and do not display high amplitude cycling. On the other hand, high-amplitude RNA cycling was consistently obtained with a tim transgene that contains genomic, rather than cDNA, sequences. To identify additional sequences that may be required for tim cycling, we investigated the role of an E-box in the first intron of the tim gene through cell culture experiments. In these experiments, the presence of this intron did not have any effect on the activation of tim transcription by dCLK/CYC. As the upstream E-box was implicated in activation by dCLK/CYC in cell culture, we assayed sequences containing this E-box for association with proteins in fly head extracts. These studies provide the first biochemical evidence for an in vivo complex containing dCLK and CYC that binds the tim upstream sequence and is detected at all times of day. Together, these data highlight molecular mechanisms that are critical for behavioral rhythms.
Unipolar brush cells (UBCs) of the mammalian vestibulocerebellum receive mossy fiber projections primarily from the vestibular ganglion and vestibular nuclei. Recently, the axons of UBCs have been shown to generate an extensive system of cortex-intrinsic mossy fibers, which resemble traditional cerebellar mossy fiber afferents and synapse with granule cell dendrites and other UBCs. However, the neurotransmitter used by the UBC axon is still unknown. In this study, we used long-term organotypic slice cultures of the isolated nodulus (lobule X) from postnatal day 8 mouse cerebella to identify the neurotransmitter and receptors at synapses of the UBC axon terminals, relying on the notion that, in these cultures, all of the cortex-extrinsic fibers had degenerated during the first few days in vitro. Quantification of glutamate immunogold labeling showed that the UBC axon terminals have the same high gold-particle density as the glutamatergic parallel fiber varicosities. Furthermore, UBCs identified by calretinin immunoreactivity expressed the glutamate receptor subunits GluR2/3, NMDAR1, and mGluR2/3, like they do in the mature mouse cerebellum in situ. Evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs), spontaneous EPSCs, and burst discharges were demonstrated in UBCs and granule cells by patch-clamp recording. Both the evoked and spontaneous EPSCs were blocked by ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists CNQX and D-AP5. We conclude that neurotransmission at the UBC axon terminals is glutamatergic. Thus, UBCs provide a powerful network of feedforward excitation within the granular layer, which may amplify vestibular signals and synchronize activity in clusters of functionally related granule cells which project vertically to patches of Purkinje cells.

The functional role of the cerebellum is traditionally defined as a mere coordinator of automatic and somatic motor functions. This view determined most of the clinical and experimental investigations of the functions of the cerebellum and overshadowed many attempts to expand its role to non-motor functions. However, during the past decades the collaboration across contemporary neuroscience disciplines has brought about a substantial modification of traditional thinking about the cerebellum. Converging evidence from different neuroscientific angles established the view that the human cerebellum participates in a much wider range of functions than conventionally accepted. Studies have brought to the fore that the cerebellum also modulates neurocognitive functions of at least these parts of the brain to which it is reciprocally connected. In less than two decades, the concept of 'cerebellar neurocognition' evolved from a mere afterthought to an exciting new multifaced area of contemporary neuroscientific investigations. Within this area, one of the major avenues of current research is the role of the cerebellum in non-motor language processing. This paper reviews the recently acknowledged role of the cerebellum in neurocognition and linguistic processes.



Double immunofluorescence for paired helical filament (PHF)-tau (AT8) and ubiquitin, enhanced by catalyzed reporter deposition amplification, was combined with thiazin red (TR), a fluorochrome, which has an affinity to fibrillary structures such as neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). After recording these triple-fluorescent images, sections were subjected to the Gallyas silver impregnation method, so that four different staining properties could be compared on the same structure. Among pyramidal neurons quantified in the hippocampus from six cases of Alzheimer's disease, 60.3% were positive for ubiquitin, and were consistently positive for TR. TR-positive neurons (77.1%) harbored fibrillary structures in the cytoplasm and were always positive for the Gallyas stain, which stained the largest number of legions (94.5%). AT8-positive neurons without fibrillary structure were negative for TR (11.6%, pretangle neurons). Some of the pretangle neurons were positive for the Gallyas stain even without fibrillary structures. Appearance of TR stain and ubiquitin in NFTs, but not in pretangle neurons, suggests that ubiquitin is integrated into tau-positive neurons after their transformation into NFTs. Because TR-positive NFTs sometimes lacked ubiquitin-like immunoreactivity, involvement of ubiquitin may not be an early event during NFT formation. This combined method is now found useful in determining how molecules other than tau are involved during the evolution from tau-positive neurons to NFTs in various neurological disorders characterized by the deposition of tau.


Neuroendocrine tumors comprise a family of neoplasms with a wide range of morphologic, functional, and behavioral characteristics. Their diagnosis depends on the recognition of characteristic morphologic features and on the presence of markers indicative of neuroendocrine differentiation. Neuroendocrine tumors can be grouped into epithelial and neural subtypes on the basis of the presence of cytokeratins or neurofilaments, respectively. The nomenclature of these tumors, particularly those of the epithelial type, remains controversial. For some tumor types, such as those of the anterior pituitary, thyroid, and parathyroid glands, the standard terminology is preferable to the terms neuroendocrine tumor or neuroendocrine carcinoma. The use of the term carcinoid, however, has become increasingly more inappropriate to describe the full range of neuroendocrine neoplasms of low to intermediate malignant potential. It is critical to convey in diagnostic teminology both the tumor type and its malignant potential. Diagnostic terms using neuroendocrine or endocrine together with information on grading and hormonal activity provide an optimal approach for the classification of these tumors. Additional studies, including gene expression profiling, will be critical for further advancing our understanding of the pathobiology and interrelationships of these neoplasms.

The presenilins (PSs) are components of large molecular complexes that contain beta-catenin and function as gamma-secretase. We report here a striking correlation between amyloid angiopathy and the location of mutation in PS-1 linked Alzheimer's disease. The amount of amyloid beta protein, Abeta(42(43)), but not Abeta(40,) deposited in the frontal cortex of the brain is increased in 54 cases of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease, encompassing 25 mutations in the presenilin-1 (PS-1) gene, compared to sporadic Alzheimer's disease. The amount of Abeta(40) in PS-1 Alzheimer's disease varied according to the copy number of epsilon4 alleles of the Apolipoprotein E gene. Although the amounts of Abeta(40) and Abeta(42(43)) deposited did not correlate with the genetic location of the mutation in a strict linear sense, the histological profile did so vary. Cases with mutations between codon 1 and 200 showed, in frontal cortex, many diffuse plaques, few cored plaques, and mild or moderate amyloid angiopathy. Cases with mutations occurring after codon 200 also showed many diffuse plaques, but the number and size of cored plaques were increased (even when epsilon4 allele was not present) and these were often clustered around blood vessels severely affected by amyloid angiopathy. Similarly, diverging histological profiles, mainly according to the degree of amyloid angiopathy, were seen in the cerebellum. Mutations in the PS-1 gene may therefore alter the topology of the PS-1 protein so as to favor Abeta formation and deposition, generally, but also to facilitate amyloid angiopathy particularly in cases in which the mutation lies beyond codon 200. Finally we report that the amount of Abeta(42(43)) deposited in the brain correlated with the amount of this produced in culture by cells bearing the equivalent mutations.
In the last decade, there has been a dramatic increase in academic and pharmaceutical interest in central integration of vago-vagal reflexes controlling the gastrointestinal tract. Associated with this, there have been substantial efforts to determine the receptor-mediated events in the dorsal vagal complex that underlie the physiological responses to distension or variations in the composition of the gut contents. Strong evidence supports the idea that glutamate is a transmitter in afferent vagal fibers conveying information from the gut to the brain, and the implications of this are discussed in this themes article. Furthermore, both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors mediate pre- and postsynaptic control of glutamate transmission related to several reflexes, including swallowing motor pattern generation, gastric accommodation, and emesis. The emphasis of this themes article is on the potential therapeutic benefits afforded by modulation of these receptors at the site of the dorsal vagal complex.
Acetaminophen is a phenol with antioxidant properties, but little is known about its actions on the mammalian myocardium and coronary circulation. We studied isolated, perfused guinea pig hearts, and tested the hypothesis that acetaminophen-treated hearts would be protected during ischemia-reperfusion. Acetaminophen concentrations in the range of 0.3-0.6 mmol/l caused modest but significant (P &lt; 0.05) coronary vasoconstriction and positive inotropy. The effects were more brisk during constant pressure perfusion than during constant flow. During 20 min of low-flow, global myocardial ischemia and 40 min of reperfusion, hearts treated with acetaminophen retained or recovered a greater percentage of left ventricular function than hearts treated with vehicle. Myofibrillar ultrastructure appeared to be preserved in the reperfused myocardium with acetaminophen. By using chemiluminescence and spin-trap methodologies, we investigated acetaminophen-mediated antioxidant mechanisms to help explain the cardioprotection. The burst of hydroxyl radicals seen between 0 and 10 min of reperfusion was significantly attenuated (P &lt; 0.05) by acetaminophen but not by vehicle. The 3-morpholinosydnominine (SIN-1) generation of peroxynitrite and its oxidative interaction with luminol to produce blue light during ischemia-reperfusion was also blocked by acetaminophen. Our results show that acetaminophen provides significant functional and structural protection to the ischemic-reperfused myocardium, and the mechanism of cardioprotection seems to involve attenuation of the production of both hydroxyl radicals and peroxynitrite.
Stress-induced levels of plasma glucocorticoid hormones are known to modulate leukocyte function. These experiments examined the effects of a social stressor on the responsiveness of peripheral immune cells. Male mice experienced six evening cycles of social disruption (SDR), in which an aggressive male intruder was placed into their home cage for 2 h. Although circulating corticosterone was elevated in SDR mice, they had enlarged spleens and increased numbers of splenic leukocytes. Splenocytes from SDR and control mice were cultured with lipopolysaccharide and corticosterone. Cells from SDR mice exhibited decreased sensitivity to the antiproliferative effects of corticosterone, suggesting that the peripheral immune cells were resistant to glucocorticoids. In addition, SDR cells produced more interleukin (IL)-6. To determine which cell population was affected, we used antibody-labeled magnetic beads to deplete splenocyte suspensions of B cells or macrophages. Depletion of macrophages from SDR cultures, but not depletion of B cells, abolished both the corticosterone resistance and enhanced IL-6 secretion. These findings demonstrate that a psychosocial stressor induced glucocorticoid resistance in mouse splenic macrophages.




Intraoperative blood pressure changes alter cerebral blood flow in neurosurgical patients with impaired autoregulation. Infiltration of the scalp before craniotomy may cause hemodynamic changes that depend on the composition of the solution used. We investigated cardiovascular responses to infiltration of the scalp with five different combinations of epinephrine and lidocaine in 112 patients: Group A, lidocaine 0.5%; Group B, lidocaine 0.5% with epinephrine 1:200,000; Group C, lidocaine 0.5% with epinephrine 1:100,000; Group D, normal saline with epinephrine 1:200,000; and Group E, normal saline with epinephrine 1:100,000. Episodes of tachycardia occurred more frequently in group E (P = 0.03). Plain lidocaine did not cause any significant change in blood pressure. The incidence of systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial hypertension was significantly increased in group E (P &lt; 0.01). Episodes of diastolic hypertension occurred more frequently in Group D (P &lt; 0.01). A biphasic diastolic and mean arterial hypotension (around Minute 2 and Minutes 9-15) occurred in Groups C and B (P &lt; 0.001). In conclusion, epinephrine 1:100,000 causes significant tachycardia. Epinephrine in concentrations of 1:100,000 and 1:200,000 causes significant hypertension. The combination of lidocaine and epinephrine attenuates the hypertension but results in a biphasic hypotensive response.
It is common in vestibular and oculomotor testing to use a single-frequency (sine) or combination of frequencies [sum-of-sines (SOS)] stimulus for head or target motion. The resulting eye movements typically contain a smooth tracking component, which follows the stimulus, in which are interspersed rapid eye movements (saccades or fast phases). The parameters of the smooth tracking--the amplitude and phase of each component frequency--are of interest; many methods have been devised that attempt to identify and remove the fast eye movements from the smooth. We describe a new approach to this problem, tailored to both single-frequency and sum-of-sines stimulation of the human linear vestibulo-ocular reflex. An approximate derivative is used to identify fast movements, which are then omitted from further analysis. The remaining points form a series of smooth tracking segments. A genetic algorithm is used to fit these segments together to form a smooth (but disconnected) wave form, by iteratively removing biases due to the missing fast phases. A genetic algorithm is an iterative optimization procedure; it provides a basis for extending this approach to more complex stimulus-response situations. In the SOS case, the genetic algorithm estimates the amplitude and phase values of the component frequencies as well as removing biases.
Suicidal patients often report problems with their sleep. Although sleep-related complaints and EEG (electroencephalographic) changes have been seen widely across the spectrum of psychiatric disorders, sleep complaints such as insomnia, hypersomnia, nightmares, and sleep panic attacks are more common in suicidal patients. The subjective quality of sleep as measured by self-rated questionnaires also appears to be more disturbed in suicidal depressive patients. Sleep studies have reported various polysomnographic findings including increased REM (rapid eye movement) time and REM activity in suicidal patients with depression, schizoaffective disorder, and schizophrenia. One mechanism responsible for this possible association between suicide and sleep could be the role of serotonin (5HT). Serotonergic function has been found to be low in patients who attempted and/or completed suicide, particularly those who used violent methods. Aggression dyscontrol appears to be an intervening factor between serotonin and suicide. Additionally, agents that enhance serotonergic transmission decrease suicidal behavior. Serotonin has also been documented to play an important role in onset and maintenance of slow wave sleep and in REM sleep. CSF 5-HIAA levels have been correlated with slow wave sleep in patients with depression as well as schizophrenia. Moreover, 5HT2 receptor antagonists have improved slow wave sleep. Further studies are needed to investigate the possible role of sleep disturbance in suicidal behavior.

Clinical trials for ischemic stroke have been characterized by a disappointing series of negative results, using a panoply of pharmacologic agents. This paper emphasizes five physiologic measures that can be taken to mitigate ischemic brain damage. These are (1) hypothermia, (2) insulin, (3) arterial hyperoxemia, (4) blood pressure control and (5) magnesium. Hypothermia is protective in both focal and global ischemia, even postischemically protecting against selective neuronal necrosis and infarction. The total equation for protection includes the (i) postischemic delay, (ii) depth, and (iii) duration of hypothermia. Insulin operates by lowering glucose levels to the normal range in focal ischemia. It is possible that very low glucose levels are detrimental in focal ischemia with paradoxical augmentation of the infarct size, and that spreading depression plays a role in this. Controlled arterial hyperoxemia seems effective experimentally in reducing infarct size, operating mechanistically by either a direct effect of oxygen, or vasoconstriction causing shunting of blood into the infarct, or both. Blood pressure is a critical determinant of infarct size, and raising blood pressure improves collateral blood flow and reduces stroke size. To be used clinically, however, hemorrhage must be ruled out. The most dramatic clinical effects of blood pressure are seen in aneurysm patients with vasospasm, where minor increases in blood pressure reverse temporary hemiparesis by reducing ischemia. Magnesium is likely the safest NMDA antagonist, with a long history of safe administration to pregnant women with eclampsia. There is potential interaction with insulin, in that magnesium causes hyperglycemia, which requires insulin to counteract it. Magnesium and insulin together have been shown effective in experimental brain ischemia. In the absence of safe and effective pharmacologic neuroprotection agents, clinical trials should be designed and launched to test these physiologic measures, singly and in combination, to reduce brain damage after ischemia.
Advanced age is associated with physiological changes, such as cerebral autoregulation dysfunction, atrial fibrillation, reduced cerebral blood flow, elevated blood pressure, and other changes. Stroke-related dementia is associated with brain loss principally due to strokes, and neuropathological examination of the brains of old people shows a direct correlation between the extent of brain loss and dementia. However, the exact mechanism of the age related vulnerability to hypoxic-ischemic neuronal injury remains unknown. The majority of synapses in the brain use excitatory amino acids as their neurotransmitter. Glutamate, a major endogenous excitatory amino acid required for normal physiological excitation, is also involved in the pathophysiology of hypoxic-ischemic neuronal injury. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor subtype plays a major role in mediating hypoxic-ischemic neuronal injury. NMDA receptors also mediate adaptive responses important for synaptic plasticity. This report explores the possible role of synaptic activity as a protective mechanism against neuronal cell death. Specifically, the role of NMDA receptors in neuronal plasticity by upregulating a survival pathway is discussed. Loss of a neuronal population that uses glutamate as its neurotransmitter leads to a loss of activity on the postsynaptic neurons or synaptic deprivation. Deprivation of excitatory amino acids on the postsynaptic neurons results in the failure of activity-dependent induced intrinsic survival pathways induced by NMDA receptors. The loss of neuroprotective intrinsic survival pathways increases the vulnerability of these neurons to more hypoxic-ischemic neuronal damage. Since cerebral infarction is also age related, this hypothesis provides a plausible explanation of how we become more vulnerable to hypoxic-ischemic neuronal injury as a function of age.





Similarities and differences between language and music processing are examined from an evolutionary and a cognitive perspective. Language and music cannot be considered single entities; they need to be decomposed into different component operations or levels of processing. The central question concerns one of the most important claims of the generative grammar theory, that is, the specificity of language processing: do the computations performed to process language rely on specific linguistic processes or do they rely on general cognitive principles? Evidence from brain imaging results is reviewed, noting that this field is currently in need of metanalysis of the available results to precisely evaluate this claim. A series of experiments, mainly using the event-related brain potentials method, were conducted to compare different levels of processing in language and music. Overall, results favor language specificity when certain aspects of semantic processing in language are compared with certain aspects of melodic and harmonic processing in music. By contrast, results support the view that general cognitive principles are involved when aspects of syntactic processing in language are compared with aspects of harmonic processing in music. Moreover, analysis of the temporal structure led to similar effects in language and music. These tentative conclusions must be supported by other brain imaging results to shed further light on the spatiotemporal dynamics of the brain structure-function relationship.
Musical imagery refers to the experience of &quot;replaying&quot; music by imagining it inside the head. Whereas visual imagery has been extensively studied, few people have investigated imagery in the auditory domain. This article reviews a program of research that has tried to characterize auditory imagery for music using both behavioral and cognitive neuroscientific tools. I begin by describing some of my behavioral studies of the mental analogues of musical tempo, pitch, and temporal extent. I then describe four studies using three techniques that examine the correspondence of brain involvement in actually perceiving vs. imagining familiar music. These involve one lesion study with epilepsy surgery patients, two positron emission tomography (PET) studies, and one study using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). The studies converge on the importance of the right temporal neocortex and other right-hemisphere structures in the processing of both perceived and imagined nonverbal music. Perceiving and imagining songs that have words also involve structures in the left hemisphere. The supplementary motor area (SMA) is activated during musical imagery; it may mediate rehearsal that involves motor programs, such as imagined humming. Future studies are suggested that would involve imagery of sounds that cannot be produced by the vocal tract to clarify the role of the SMA in auditory imagery.
The central neural circuit mediating baroreceptor control of sympathetic vasomotor outflow involves an excitatory projection from arterial baroreceptors to nucleus tractus solitarius, an excitatory projection from nucleus tractus solitarius to the caudal ventrolateral medulla, an inhibitory projection from the caudal ventrolateral medulla to the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), and an excitatory projection from the RVLM to sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord. For this circuit to be operational, the relevant neurons in the RVLM must be tonically active. Indeed, numerous studies have demonstrated that RVLM vasomotor neurons are tonically active; however, little is known regarding the nature of the tonic excitatory drive to these neurons. We present a model in which RVLM vasomotor neurons are tonically excited by inputs to the RVLM that can be blocked by the excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist, kynurenic acid, as well as an input from the caudal ventrolateral medulla that is not sensitive to kynurenic acid.
Glutamate (GLU) receptor activation, which is important in cardiovascular reflex transmission through the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS), leads to release of nitric oxide (NO.) from central nitroxidergic neurons. Therefore, we hypothesized that GLU and NO. are linked in cardiovascular control by NTS. We first sought to determine if NO. released into NTS led to cardiovascular changes like those produced by GLU and found that the nitrosothiol S-nitrosocysteine, but not NO. itself or other NO. donors, elicited such responses in anesthetized rats. The responses were dependent on activation of soluble guanylate cyclase but, not being affected by a scavenger of NO., likely did not depend on release of NO. into the extracellular space. Responses to ionotropic GLU agonists in NTS, like those to S-nitrosocysteine, were inhibited by inhibition of soluble guanylate cyclase. Inhibition of neuronal NO. synthase (nNOS) also inhibited responses to ionotropic GLU agonists. The apparent physiologic link between GLU and NO. mechanisms in NTS was further supported by anatomical studies that demonstrated frequent association between GLU-containing nerve terminals and neurons containing nNOS. Furthermore, GLU receptors were often found on NTS neurons that were immunoreactive for nNOS. The anatomical relationships between GLU and nNOS and GLU receptors and nNOS were more pronounced in some subnuclei of NTS than in others. While seen in subnuclei that are known to receive cardiovascular afferents, the association was even more prominent in subnuclei that receive gastrointestinal afferents. These studies support a role for nitroxidergic neurons in mediating cardiovascular and other visceral reflex responses that result from release of GLU into the NTS.
The repeated, intermittent use of cocaine and other drugs of abuse produces profound and often long-lasting alterations in behavior and brain chemistry. It has been suggested that these consequences of drug use play a critical role in drug craving and relapse to addiction. This article reviews the effects of psychostimulant administration on dopaminergic and excitatory amino acid neurotransmission in brain regions comprising the brain's motive circuit and provides evidence that the activation of endogenous kappa-opioid receptor systems in these regions opposes the behavioral and neurochemical consequences of repeated drug use. The role of this opioid system in mediating alterations in mood and affect that occur during abstinence from repeated psychostimulant use are also discussed.
When ovariectomized female rats receive estrogen, the response to the psychomotor stimulants amphetamine or cocaine is enhanced. Estrous cycle-dependent differences in amphetamine-stimulated behaviors and striatal dopamine release are also noted. Intact female rats exhibit a greater behavioral response to amphetamine on estrus than they do on other days of the cycle. Ovariectomy results in attenuation of amphetamine-induced behavior and the striatal dopamine response to amphetamine. Physiological doses of estrogen given to ovariectomized rats reinstate both of these responses to a level comparable to that in estrous females. Furthermore, a sex difference is noted, in that females tend to exhibit a greater behavioral response to the psychomotor stimulants, and estrogen enhances this sex difference. Repeated treatment with amphetamine or cocaine produces a progressive increase in behavioral responsiveness with subsequent drug administration, a process known as sensitization. In rodents, behavioral sensitization results in increases in both frequency and duration of psychomotor behaviors such as rotational behavior, stereotyped grooming, headbobs, and forelimb movements. Interestingly, females display greater sensitization of behaviors in response to psychomotor stimulants than do males. Previous research results are summarized, and new results are presented, demonstrating that estrogen selectively enhances components of behavior that exhibit sensitization in female rats. Results also indicate gender differences in sensitization independent of gonadal hormones, suggesting that the neural systems that undergo sensitization are sexually dimorphic.



Guillain-Barr Syndrome (GBS) is an illness characterized by acute neuromuscular paralysis. A review of the history, course of the disease, current treatments, and nursing interventions, as well as excerpts from a patient teaching guide developed by the author for patients with GBS is included in this paper. The objectives are to present information about GBS, first at a level of understanding appropriate for patients and their families, and then to provide a more indepth discussion for health care providers. Despite the potential severity of GBS, the expected outcomes are encouraging. GBS affects 1-2.73 individuals per 100,000/year (Hahn, 1998). The symptoms can range from numbness and tingling with mild weakness to total paralysis requiring mechanical ventilation. Once diagnosed, patients are usually treated with intravenous immune globulin (i.v. IG), which significantly reduces the duration of the illness (Hughes, 1997; Guillain-Barr Syndrome Study Group, 1985). Neuroscience nurses can make a difference in the recovery of their patients by anticipating potential complications and attending to their special needs during the acute and recovery phases of their illness. Aside from physical care, being able to support and teach the patient and family about GBS is crucial. Use of a patient and family teaching guide is one strategy for providing education and support.
Social stress from aggressive interaction is expressed differently in specific brain regions of dominant and subordinate male Anolis carolinensis. Prior to aggressive behavior, the outcome is predictable via the celerity of postorbital coloration: Dominant males exhibit more rapid eyespot darkening. Serotonergic activation is manifest rapidly (1 h) in hippocampus, nucleus accumbens and brainstem of subordinate males, and is expressed more rapidly in dominant males. Amygdalar serotonergic activation responds rapidly (1 h) in dominant males, but is expressed slowly (1 w) and chronically in subordinate males. We hypothesized that chronic (1 w) serotonin elevation, manipulated by the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor sertraline, would decrease aggressiveness and result in subordinate status. Dominant status was established in pairs of male A. carolinensis. The pairs were separated and treated with sertraline or vehicle. Sertraline was given in food to either the dominant or the subordinate male, both males or neither male for 1 week. Pairs were reintroduced, and behavior and social status recorded. When both dominant and subordinate males were treated with sertraline (or vehicle), or when subordinate males alone were treated with sertraline, previously established social relationships remained unchanged or became associative. However, when dominant males alone were treated with sertraline, their social status was reversed (43%) or negated (57%). Latency to eyespot darkening was significantly retarded in dominant males treated with sertraline, and aggressive displays and attacks were reduced. Chronic 5-HT elevation is consistent with subordinate status. Social status and aggressive disposition do not appear to be immutable, but may be changed by neuroendocrine mechanisms that mediate adaptation to environmental conditions like stress.
Immunohistochemical and behavioral techniques were used to study the effects of adrenal medulla grafts, implanted in striatum after bilateral kainic acid (KA) lesions of this structure, on the open field behavior of mice. KA-induced behavioral changes in leaning, grooming and locomotor activity of the open field test were significantly improved after grafting of the adrenal medulla, and in some respects, fully restored. Immunohistochemical identification showed that grafts contained neuron-like cells with a tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), and enkephalin-like immunostainings. A likely interpretation of this complex pattern of results is that adrenal medullary grafts may restore the deficits of GABAergic neurons which in turn reverse the abnormalities in emotionality and locomotion. Neurobiologically, these behavioral improvements probably involve GABAergic and catecholaminergic factors of adrenal medulla grafts, although other neuroactive substances, such as acetylcholine and enkephalins, cannot be excluded.
This set of experiments investigated the appetitive or motivational processes underlying the performance of maternal behavior. The place preference paradigm was adapted to simultaneously investigate the reinforcing properties of cocaine and pups for maternal, lactating dams. These modifications allowed the authors to assess which stimulus, either a 10 mg/kg s.c. injection of cocaine or 3 pups, had the strongest reinforcing value. At Postpartum Days 10 and 16, the dams preferred the cocaine cue-associated chamber, whereas the dams tested at Postpartum Day 8 preferred the pup cue-associated chamber. Overall, the data revealed an interaction between the postpartum period at testing and the exhibited preference for cocaine or pups. Further testing will investigate the neural circuitry underlying the appetitive processes of each stimulus.
Although fear conditioning has received extensive attention, little is known about the roles of social learning whereby an individual may learn and acquire the fear responses of another. The authors examined individually and socially mediated acquisition of fear and analgesia to the natural aversive stimulus of biting flies. Exposure to biting flies elicited in individual naive mice analgesia and active self-burying to avoid the flies. When exposed 24 hr later to flies whose biting parts were removed, but not to nonbiting house flies, these mice displayed conditioned analgesia and self-burying. This &quot;one-trial&quot; conditioned analgesia and avoidance was also acquired through social learning without direct individual experience with biting flies. Naive &quot;observer&quot; mice that witnessed other &quot;demonstrator&quot; mice being attacked by biting flies exhibited analgesia and self-burying 24 hr later to altered flies.
To test the hypothesis that odorant quality perception is altered in olfactory marker protein (OMP)-null mice, we trained and tested adult OMP-null and control mice, using a 5-odorant identification confusion matrix task (animal odorant confusion matrix [AOCM]). On average, control and null mice performed the task at equivalent levels. The composite 5 x 5 response matrix from 40 testing sessions for each subject (both OMP-null and control) was compared with that of every other subject, yielding a dissimilarity matrix of AOCM responses. A multidimensional scaling (MDS) analysis of the dissimilarity data yielded a 4-dimensional solution, with each mouse occupying a point in MDS animal space. Statistical analysis demonstrated significant effects of genotype in determining the location of a mouse in the MDS space. These data suggest, therefore, that compared with that of controls, odorant quality perception is altered in the OMP-null mouse.
To determine whether discrete components of amygdaloid and striatal memory systems could interact to guide behavior in a radial arm maze, conditioned cue preference (CCP) and win-stay accuracy were examined after lidocaine inactivation of either the rostral (rBLA) or caudal (cBLA) basolateral amygdala, the lateral (lDST) or medial (mDST) dorsal striatum, or a control site in rats. CCP expression was blocked only after rBLA or cBLA inactivation. lDST inactivation prevented attainment of criteria win-stay performance, whereas rBLA and mDST inactivation delayed it. Control site inactivation did not influence performance in either task. These findings suggest that the amygdala works independently of other memory systems to regulate learned responses in the CCP task, the rBLA may work cooperatively with the lDST to guide behavior in the win-stay task, and the mDST is less critical than the lDST for attaining criteria performance in the win-stay task.
Intracellular accumulation of toxic, hydrophobic bile acids has been proposed as one of the putative final common pathways leading to cholestatic liver injury. Furthermore, bile acids have been proposed as a causative factor for hepatic cardiomyopathy. Hepatic tissue concentrations of chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) during cholestasis are greater than those of other toxic bile acids. In the presence of calcium and phosphate, CDCA induced the permeability transition pore (PTP) in freshly isolated rat liver mitochondria. In this study, we evaluated the effects of carvedilol, a multirole cardioprotective compound, on CDCA-induced PTP. Mitochondrial membrane potential, osmotic swelling, and calcium fluxes were monitored. CDCA-induced PTP, characterized by membrane depolarization, release of matrix calcium, and osmotic swelling, was prevented by carvedilol. Under the same conditions, its hydroxylated analog BM-910228 did not reveal any protective effect. This finding reinforces carvedilol's therapeutic interest, because it may potentially prevent mitochondrial dysfunction associated with cardiomyopathy in the pathophysiology of cholestatic liver disease
The dorsal tubular central nervous system (CNS) of the ascidian tadpole larva is a diagnostic feature by which the chordate affinities of this group, as a whole, are recognized. We have used two methods to identify larval neurons of Ciona intestinalis. The first is serial electron microscopy (EM), as part of a dedicated study of the visceral ganglion (1), and the second is the transient transfection of neural plate progeny with green fluorescent protein (GFP) (2), to visualize the soma and its neurites of individual neurons in whole-mounted larvae of C. intestinalis. Our observations reveal that ascidian larval neurons are simple inform, with a single axonal neurite arising from a soma that is either monopolar or has only very few, relatively simple neurites arising from it, as part of a presumed dendritic arbor. Somata in the visceral ganglion giving rise to axons descending in the caudal nerve cord are presumed to be those of motor neurons.
Because spontaneous host regeneration of damaged tissues is limited, novel therapeutics utilizing cultured cells with the aid of tissue engineering methods are promising alternatives for tissue replacement. One critical shortcoming is current requirement for invasive cell harvest from culture to fabricate cell-based devices. Although microglia that secrete neurotrophic factors are attractive candidates for novel cell transplantation therapy for damaged central nervous system tissue, the intact harvest of cultured microglia is presently not achievable. Therefore, primary microglia were plated onto culture surfaces grafted with the temperature-responsive polymer, poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) (PIPAAm). This surface undergoes rapid, reversible temperature-dependent changes in its hydration state and surface hydrophilicity. Microglia attached and proliferated on PIPAAm-grafted dishes at 37 degrees C. By reducing culture temperature, more than 90% of the cells spontaneously detached from the dishes within several minutes without trypsin or EDTA treatment. Recovered and replated microglia exhibited phenotypic properties comparable to those of primary microglia freshly isolated from brain. By contrast, less than 60% of the cells were harvested by trypsin digestion, and exhibited significant alteration of characteristic cellular properties as monitored by pathological states in vivo. This new technology exhibits utility for the preparation of cell sources required for cell transplantation as well as microglial function analysis.
Mapping of the human brain by means of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is an emerging field in cognitive and clinical neuroscience. Current techniques to detect activated areas of the brain mostly proceed in two steps. First, conventional methods of correlation, regression, and time series analysis are used to assess activation by a separate, pixelwise comparison of the fMRI signal time courses to the reference function of a presented stimulus. Spatial aspects caused by correlations between neighboring pixels are considered in a separate second step, if at all. The aim of this article is to present hierarchical Bayesian approaches that allow one to simultaneously incorporate temporal and spatial dependencies between pixels directly in the model formulation. For reasons of computational feasibility, models have to be comparatively parsimonious, without oversimplifying. We introduce parametric and semiparametric spatial and spatiotemporal models that proved appropriate and illustrate their performance applied to visual fMRI data.
Mechanosensitive (MS) ion channels are ubiquitous in eukaryotic cell types but baffling because of their contentious physiologies and diverse molecular identities. In some cellular contexts mechanically responsive ion channels are undoubtedly mechanosensory transducers, but it does not follow that all MS channels are mechanotransducers. Here we demonstrate, for an archetypical voltage-gated channel (Shaker-IR; inactivation-removed), robust MS channel behavior. In oocyte patches subjected to stretch, Shaker-IR exhibits both stretch-activation (SA) and stretch-inactivation (SI). SA is seen when prestretch P(open) (set by voltage) is low, and SI is seen when it is high. The stretch effects occur in cell-attached and excised patches at both macroscopic and single-channel levels. Were one ignorant of this particular MS channel's identity, one might propose it had been designed as a sophisticated reporter of bilayer tension. Knowing Shaker-IR's provenance and biology, however, such a suggestion would be absurd. We argue that the MS responses of Shaker-IR reflect not overlooked &quot;mechano-gating&quot; specializations of Shaker, but a common property of multiconformation membrane proteins: inherent susceptibility to bilayer tension. The molecular diversity of MS channels indicates that susceptibility to bilayer tension is hard to design out of dynamic membrane proteins. Presumably the cost of being insusceptible to bilayer tension often outweighs the benefits, especially where the in situ milieu of channels can provide mechanoprotection.
We have directly compared the effect of two types of dextran sulfate with distinct molecular weights (500 kDa and 5 kDa) on the fusion activity and infectivity of both Sendai and influenza viruses, two lipid-enveloped viruses that differ in their routes of entry into target cells. To correlate membrane merging and infectivity MDCK cells were used as targets for the viruses in both approaches. In either case pronounced inhibition of virus-cell interactions by dextran sulfate was only observed at low pH, even though Sendai virus fuses maximally at pH 7.4. Although membrane merging could not be fully abolished, the inhibitory effect was always greater when the higher molecular weight dextran sulfate was used. The presence of this residual fusion activity, that could not be reduced even with high concentrations of agent, suggests that a limited number of binding sites for dextran sulfate may exist on the viral envelopes. The compounds also inhibited fusion of bound virions, and all results could be reproduced using erythrocyte ghosts as target membranes in the fusion assay, instead of MDCK cells. In agreement with these observations only the infectivity of influenza virus (which requires a low pH-dependent step to enter target cells) was affected by dextran sulfate, again the higher molecular weight compound showing a more pronounced inhibitory effect.
The biochemistry of synaptic transmission, especially the neurobiology of dopamine signaling, is discussed.
The influence of hearing loss and aging on the perceptual organization of sound sequences was investigated by comparing the ability of young normal-hearing subjects and elderly subjects having either impaired or normal hearing for their age to form perceptual auditory streams from sequences of harmonic complex tones as a function of differences in fundamental frequency (F0). The sequences consisted of repeating triplets of harmonic complex tones separated by a silence (ABA-). In conditions in which the F0s of the A and B tone were so low that the harmonics could not be individually resolved by the peripheral auditory system even in the young normal-hearing subjects, those subjects showed similar stream segregation performance to the elderly hearing-impaired subjects. In contrast, when the F0s of the tones were high enough for the harmonics to be largely resolved at the auditory periphery in normal-hearing subjects, but presumably unresolved in the elderly subjects, the former showed significantly more stream segregation than the latter. These results, which cannot be consistently explained in terms of age differences, suggest that auditory stream segregation is adversely affected by reduced peripheral frequency selectivity of elderly individuals. This finding has implications for the understanding of the listening difficulties experienced by elderly individuals in cocktail-party situations.

The importance of angiogenesis as a prognostic factor in brain tumours has recently been reported. In this study, we analysed the long-term prognostic significance of a morphometric score expressing the endothelial area for every 1000 tumour cells, in tumour tissue from 26 patients with a low-grade oligodendroglioma that has been treated surgically and irradiated, and has a MIB-1 labelling index (MIB-1 LI) of less than 1%. In each tumour, a vascular endothelial surface index (VESI) was determined as the CD-34 immunostained endothelial area in micron 2 per 1000 tumour cells. Patients with a VESI of less than 15 (n = 12) showed a survival at 5 and 10 years of 100 and 71%, respectively, versus a survival of 50 and 0% for patients presenting a VESI greater than 15 (n = 14); p &lt; 0.05). Our present findings suggest the usefulness of VESI as a long-term prognostic pathological factor in low-grade oligodendroglioma.
Based on a retrospective study in which a total of 541 Codman Hakim Programmable Valves (CHPV) were implanted in 477 patients over a 6-year period, this cost analysis was performed. By using a valve with an adjustable opening pressure, valve exchange to alter the opening pressure and surgical evacuation of subdural haematomas and hygromas can be avoided. Dividing the added cost for using the CHPV by the cost of implanting a non-programmable Hakim valve results in 105.8 valve exchanges, which would have had to be avoided to break even financially. On 107 occasions a valve was adjusted by a magnitude of 50 mmH2O or more. This, if an adjustment of that magnitude is said to correspond to a valve exchange, is sufficient to break even. The analysis suggests that the extra cost of the valve is outweighed by the ability to adjust the opening pressure setting non-invasively.
The biological activities of nitric oxide (NO) include vasodilatation, inhibition of platelet aggregation, neurotransmission, neural plasticity, and modulation of inflammatory and immunological functions. NO synthase (NOS), which is the enzyme that produces NO, has been detected in resected human glioma specimens, and both human and rodent glioma cell lines. NO production in gliomas can alter several important pathophysiological processes, such as local host immune response, tumour cell apoptosis, tumour invasion/metastasis, free radical injury to tumour cells and adjacent normal brain tissues, tonic vasodilatation of tumour vessels, vascular permeability and neovascularization. Recently, some therapeutic strategies for gliomas using NO manipulation have been proposed, and evaluated both experimentally and indirectly in preliminary clinical trials. These include NO manipulation designed to modify tumour cell oncogenesis, tumour blood flow and disposition of anti-cancer drugs in tumour tissue. This review will discuss the biological role of NO in the central nervous system and gliomas and its current and future possibilities in neuro-oncology.
We investigated the contribution of neuronal or inducible nitric oxide synthase (nNOS or iNOS) at the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) to central cardiovascular regulation by endogenous nitric oxide (NO), using Sprague-Dawley rats anaesthetized and maintained with propofol. Microinjection bilaterally into the RVLM of a NO trapping agent, carboxy-2-phenyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-l-oxy-l-3-oxide (10, 50 or 100 nmoles) resulted in significant hypotension and bradycardia. Similar application of a selective antagonist of nNOS, 7-nitroindazole (1, 2.5 or 5 pmoles), or selective antagonists of iNOS, aminoguanidine (125, 250 or 500 pmoles), N(6)-(l-iminoethyl)-L-lysine (250 pmoles) or S-methylisothiourea (250 pmoles), induced respectively a reduction or an enhancement in systemic arterial pressure, heart rate and power density of the vasomotor components in the spectrum of arterial blood pressure signals, the experimental index for sympathetic neurogenic vasomotor tone. Both hypotension and bradycardia induced by the NO precursor, L-arginine (100 nmoles), were significantly blunted when aminoguanidine (250 pmoles) was co-microinjected bilaterally into the RVLM. On the other hand, co-administered 7-nitroindazole (2.5 pmoles) was ineffective. Whereas low doses of S-nitro-N-acetylpenicillamine (0.25 or 0.5 nmoles) elicited hypertension and tachycardia, high doses of this non-nitrate NO donor (5 nmoles) induced hypotension and bradycardia. Reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed that both iNOS and nNOS mRNA were expressed in the ventrolateral medulla. We conclude that the prevalence of nNOS over iNOS activity at the RVLM and the associated dominance of sympathoexcitation over sympathoinhibition may underlie the maintenance of sympathetic vasomotor outflow and stable systemic arterial pressure by the endogenous NO.
The pharmacological properties of fatty acid amidohydrolase (FAAH) at different assay pH values were investigated using [(3)H]-anandamide ([(3)H]-AEA) as substrate in rat brain homogenates and in COS-1 [corrected] cells transfected with wild type and mutant FAAH. Rat brain hydrolysis of [(3)H]-AEA showed pH dependency with an optimum around pH 8-9. Between pH 6.3 and 8.2, the difference in activity was due to differences in the V(max), rather than the K(M) values. For inhibition of rat brain [(3)H]-AEA metabolism by a series of known FAAH inhibitors, the potencies of the enantiomers of ibuprofen and phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride (PMSF) were higher at pH 5.28 than at pH 8.37, whereas the reverse was true for oleyl trifluoromethylketone (OTMK) and arachidonoylserotonin. At both pH values, (-)ibuprofen was a mixed-type inhibitor of FAAH. The K(i)((slope)) and K(i)((intercept)) values for (-)ibuprofen at pH 5.28 were 11 and 143 microM, respectively. At pH 8.37, the corresponding values were 185 and 3950 microM, respectively. The pH dependency for the inhibition by OTMK and (-)ibuprofen was also seen in COS-1 [corrected] cells transiently transfected with either wild type, S152A or C249A FAAH. No differences in potencies between the wild type and mutant enzymes were seen. It is concluded that the pharmacological properties of FAAH are highly pH-dependent. The higher potency of ibuprofen at lower pH values raises the possibility that in certain types of inflamed tissue, the concentration of this compound following oral administration may be sufficient to inhibit FAAH.
The pharmacological effects of opioid- and adenosine-receptor agonists on neural signalling were investigated by measuring drug actions on barium current flowing through calcium channels in acutely-dissociated neurons of the rat nucleus accumbens (NAc). Under whole-cell voltage clamp, opioids acted via mu, but not delta or kappa, receptors to partially inhibit barium current. Mean inhibition was 35+/-2% (+/-s.e.mean, n = 33) for methionine-enkephalin and 37+/-1% (n = 65) for the selective mu receptor agonist DAMGO, both measured at saturating agonist concentrations in neurons with diameter &gt; or = 20 microm. EC(50) for DAMGO was 100 nM. Perfusion of naloxone reversed the current inhibition by DAMGO. Adenosine also partially inhibited barium current in these neurons. Mean inhibition was 28+/-2% (n = 29) for adenosine and 33+/-3% (n = 27) for the selective A1 receptor agonist N(6)CPA, both at saturating concentrations in neurons with diameter &gt; or = 20 microm. EC(50) for N(6)CPA was 34 nM. Adenosine inhibition was reversed by perfusion of an A1 receptor antagonist, 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine, while the selective A2A receptor agonist, CGS 21680, had no effect. Inhibition by opioids and adenosine was mutually occlusive, suggesting a converging pathway onto calcium channels. These actions involved a G-protein-coupled mechanism, as demonstrated by the partial relief of inhibition by strong depolarization and by the application of N-ethylmaleimide or GTP-gamma-S. Inhibition of barium current by opioids had their greatest effect in large neurons, that is, in presumed interneurons. In contrast, opioid inhibition in neurons with diameter &lt; or = 15 microm was 11+/-2% (n = 26) for methionine-enkephalin and 11+/-4% (n = 17) for DAMGO, both measured at saturating agonist concentrations. Adenosine inhibition in neurons with diameter &lt; or = 15 microm was 22+/-5% (n = 9). These results implicate the interneurons as a locus for the modulation of the excitability of projection neurons in the NAc during the processes of addiction and withdrawal.
Background A robust body of evidence from family, twin and adoption studies demonstrates the importance of genes in the pathogenesis of bipolar disorder. Recent advances in molecular genetics have made it possible to identify these susceptibility genes. Aims To present an overview for clinical psychiatrists. Method Review of current molecular genetics approaches and emerging findings. Results Occasional families may exist in which a single gene plays a major role in determining susceptibility, but the majority of bipolar disorder involves more complex genetic mechanisms such as the interaction of multiple genes and environmental factors. Molecular genetic positional and candidate gene approaches are being used for the genetic dissection of bipolar disorder. No gene has yet been identified but promising findings are emerging. Regions of interest include chromosomes 4p16, 12q23-q24, 16p13, 21q22, and Xq24-q26. Candidate gene association studies are in progress but no robust positive findings have yet emerged. Conclusion It is almost certain that over the next few years the identification of bipolar susceptiblity genes will have a major impact on our understanding of disease pathophysiology. This is likely to lead to major improvements and treatment in patient care, but will also raise important ethical issues.


The pharmacological profiles of D1- and D2-like dopamine receptors were investigated for native brain receptors in the leopard frog, Rana pipiens, using direct binding assays, which characterize functional receptors rather than assess total receptor protein. We used homogenate assays of R. pipiens fore- and midbrains to determine, via saturation isotherms, that the dissociation constant, Kd, for (3)H-SCH-23390 binding to the D1-like receptors was 0.29 nM, and the maximal receptor density, Bmax, was 40 fmoles/mg protein. This compares with the more than 10-fold higher density of D1 sites in rat striatum. Specific binding for the D2-like receptors was measurable using these methods with (3)H-spiperone as the ligand. However, saturation of binding was not achieved. This contrasts with the &gt; 400 fmoles/mg protein Bmax in rat striatum. Pharmacological profiles (rank order of potency of displacing drugs) for each receptor type were determined. We used non-radioactive SCH-23390, SKF-38393, sulpiride, and spiperone to displace (3)H-SCH-23390 and (3)H-spiperone at D1 and D2 receptors, respectively. Parallel displacement assays were performed with rat striatal controls. Results indicated that the relative rank order displacements in anuran dopamine receptors were characteristic of D1- and D2-like receptors. However, the rank orders were not identical to those in mammals. The rank order for affinity at D1-like receptors in both rats and frogs was SCH-23390 &gt; SKF-38393 &gt; spiperone &gt; sulpiride. The rank order for affinity at D2-like receptors was spiperone &gt; SCH-23390 &gt; sulpiride &gt; SKF-38393 in frogs, and spiperone &gt; sulpiride &gt; SCH-23390 &gt; SKF-38393 in rats. SKF-38393 and spiperone had similar affinities for the 'D1' receptors in both species. SCH-23390 had a slightly lower affinity for the D1-like receptors in Rana, whereas sulpiride had a significantly lower affinity for Rana D1-like receptors compared to rat D1 receptors. In Rana D2-like receptors, spiperone and sulpiride were significantly less potent compared to rat. However, SCH-23390 and SKF-38393 were equally potent for the D2-like receptors in both species. The results indicate that amphibian brain dopamine receptors fall into two classes similar to the mammalian D1 and D2 subfamilies, but with binding characteristics slightly different from those typically described in mammals. This work represents the first pharmacological characterization of native brain dopaminergic receptors in an anuran amphibian. Because direct binding assays measure the initial aspect of the functional interaction between transmitter and receptor, these data provide an important complement to studies using cell expression systems.
A social sign stimulus that is sympathetically induced affects aggressive approaches and influences serotonergic, dopaminergic and noradrenergic activity in the brainstem nuclei of Anolis carolinensis. Darkening of postorbital skin via sympathetic activation of adrenal catecholamines and beta(2)-adrenergic receptors provides a visual signal that forms more rapidly in dominant than subordinate males during social interactions. This signal limits aggressive interactions. Males were painted postorbitally with green or black paint and then exposed to a mirror. Aggressive approaches to the mirror were inhibited in males viewing a reflection with darkened eyespots, and increased in males viewing a reflection without eyespots (hidden). Noradrenergic turnover in the raphe and locus ceruleus were greatest in test subjects that viewed a reflection with eyespots hidden by green paint. Perception of darkened eyespots stimulated greater serotonergic turnover in raphe, locus ceruleus and substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area (SN/VTA). Dopaminergic turnover was higher in the raphe and SN/VTA of Anolis that viewed a reflection with darkened eyespots. However, these animals had lower dopamine turnover in the locus ceruleus than isolated and hidden eyespot groups. Of the possible roles of perikarya on central function and behavior, our results suggest feedback, cross-nuclear regulation, and some independence of function between nuclei and the forebrain terminal fields. Decreased serotonergic activity corresponds with increased aggression only in the raphe, suggesting that the raphe nuclei might be important for this behavioral trait. Increased serotonergic, noradrenergic and dopaminergic activities in SN/VTA in Anolis that view a reflected opponent with dark eyespots suggests that the SN/VTA might be directly involved in recognition of this social sign stimulus and the resulting inhibition of aggression.
Electronic journal (e-journal) publishing has started to change the ways we think about publishing. However, many scholars and scientists in the mind and brain sciences are still ignorant of the new possibilities and ongoing debates. This paper will provide a summary of the issues involved, give an update of the current discussion, and supply practical information on issues related to e-journal publishing and self-archiving relevant for the mind and brain sciences. Issues such as differences between traditional and e-journal publishing, open archive initiatives, worldwide conventions, quality control, costs involved in e-journal publishing, and copyright questions will be addressed. Practical hints on how to self-archive, how to submit to the e-journal Psycoloquy, how to create an open research archive, and where to find information relevant to e-publishing will be supplied.
Although some researchers have suggested that intrusions in word list learning are more frequent in Alzheimer's disease, recent studies have shown that this might not be true. In fact, intrusions are common in many neurological degenerative diseases. The goal of the present study was to examine the types of intrusions made by three groups of patients, namely patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and dementia with prominent frontal lobe semiology (FD). Although PD patients learned more words (trials 1 to 5 on the RAVLT) than the two other groups, there was no significant difference in the total number of intrusions. However, significant differences between groups were observed for nonrelated intrusions, the proportion of PD patients (15.4%) being lower than the proportion of AD (45.5%) and FD (45.8%) patients with this type of intrusions. No other type of intrusions (same category, recurring, phonemic) significantly differentiated between the three groups. The proactive interference effect (PI), measured as the difference between first recall of list A and list B recall, was stronger in PD than in the two other groups, reflecting the strong positive correlation between total number of words recalled on the RAVLT and severity of the PI effect. Prior list intrusions (intrusions from list A while recalling list B items) were significantly more pronounced in FD than in the two other groups. Finally, free associations (series of intrusions related to one another but not to the target items) were observed almost exclusively in FD patients. These findings illustrate some qualitative differences between various neurological degenerative diseases. They also stress the marked similarities between AD and FD with regards to verbal learning.
The capacity to incorporate significant words into the existing vocabulary and to use these words to form sentences with more mature syntactic structures emerges over a considerable time course in young deaf children who have undergone a cochlear implantation. The purpose of this follow-up study is to document the nature and time span of language production--in morphosyntactic and lexical skills--when a child's first experience with language sounds is provided artificially through electrical stimulation. To examine the development of these two aspects of linguistic processing, five deaf French children, all enrolled in similar postimplantation educational settings, were individually assessed at 6-month intervals over a period of 18 months. Computerized analyses were derived from their spontaneous speech in a 20-min standardized play session. Results for mean length of utterance and vocabulary revealed gradually improving performance for most children, in spite of the generally low starting point. Both measures of production nevertheless remained well below the norms established for normally hearing children. Although the achievement of higher production scores, which underlies more effective interpersonal exchanges, is evident after only 1 year of device use, it is clear that improvement does not always occur at the same pace, as shown by two of the children. This emphasizes the importance of longitudinal studies in documenting intersubject variability and intrasubject stability throughout the experience with an implant.
Interhemispheric relay time (IHRT) is inferred from simple (visual) reaction time (SRT) by subtracting SRTs in ipsilateral hand-field conditions from SRTs in contralateral hand-field conditions. This index, the &quot;crossed-uncrossed differential&quot; (CUD) is a synonym of IHRT in the current literature. The CUD has been shown to be significantly moderated by experimental variables, including attentional. One reason the CUD = IHRT hypostasy persists today is that no experimental manipulation has yet been able to generate a significantly negative CUD in a subject manifesting a significant positive CUD in classical conditions. We implemented an experimental manipulation, in SRT, consisting of increasing complexity of the response after the initial key press required at detection. In a very large scale single-case experiment, we found that the CUD thus went from significantly positive in classical SRT to significantly negative in the increased response load condition.
Recent research has demonstrated that memory for words elicits left hemisphere activation, faces right hemisphere activation, and nameable objects bilateral activation. This pattern of results was attributed to dual coding of information, with the left hemisphere employing a verbal code and the right a nonverbal code. Nameable objects can be encoded either verbally or nonverbally and this accounts for their bilateral activation. We investigated this hypothesis in a callosotomy patient. Consistent with dual coding, the left hemisphere was superior to the right in memory for words, whereas the right was superior for faces. Contrary to prediction, performance on nameable pictures was not equivalent in the two hemispheres, but rather resulted in a right hemisphere superiority. In addition, memory for pictures was significantly better than for either words or faces. These findings suggest that the dual code hypothesis is an oversimplification of the processing capabilities of the two hemispheres.
This paper focuses on verb movement in agrammatism and child language. We present data from a sentence completion experiment with 6 Dutch agrammatic aphasics and 21 Dutch-speaking children. The experiment compares completion of matrix clauses (which require verb movement) and embedded clauses (where such movement is not required) in these two populations. The results reveal a clear asymmetry: Both agrammatics and children do very well with embedded clauses but fail in 50% with the matrix clauses. It is concluded that the problem which both populations are facing is one of verb movement rather than verb inflection. An error analysis of the responses reveals that, although both agrammatics and children try to avoid movement, they apply different strategies to achieve this goal.
The present study focuses on the relation between a grammatical and a lexical-semantic aspect of verb production. The spontaneous speech of three different populations (normally developing children, agrammatic aphasics, and children with a specific language impairment) has been analyzed with respect to the proportion of finite clauses and the diversity of the produced lexical verbs. The group results show that in the three populations both the proportion of finite verbs and the variability of the lexical verbs is low. When the individual scores are considered, differences between the normally developing children and the language-impaired subjects show up. Whereas in normally developing children verb finiteness and verb variability go hand-in-hand, the reverse relationship between these variables is observed in the agrammatic aphasics and the children with a specific language impairment. Given this reverse relationship, it is probable to assume two separate disorders. We therefore suggest an impairment at the interface level where lexical information and syntactic structure are integrated during sentence production.
Previous studies had demonstrated that, in the cat, aggression is mediated by glutamatergic neurons in the anterior medial hypothalamus which project to the periaqueductal gray. Additionally, NK(1) receptor activation in the medial hypothalamus plays a role in the regulation of aggressive behavior by the medial amygdala. In the present study, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry were combined in order to provide neurochemical characterization of medial hypothalamic neurons containing NK(1)-receptor mRNA. In order to identify NK(1) receptors in cat brain, a 650-bp fragment of the cat NK(1) cDNA was cloned. This fragment was used to synthesize a riboprobe for in situ hybridization. Partial DNA sequence analysis of the fragment indicated a 90% homology with human cDNA. In situ hybridization revealed the presence of NK(1)-receptor mRNA in cat hypothalamic neurons. Tissue used to localize NK(1) receptors was also processed for glutamate immunopositivity. The results demonstrated that NK(1)-receptor mRNA is present in glutamate-immunopositive neurons in the anterior medial hypothalamus of cat, thus reinforcing the hypothesis that NK(1) receptors play an important role in this neural circuit.
Investigation of the neural bases of human perceptual categorization is a continuously growing territory of visual sciences. Recently, several papers appeared on the cortical bases of human categorization performance, using functional brain imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) or functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). However, the cheaper commercially available laboratory tests are not always the best methods to study multiple aspects of visual categorization. In this study, we describe the electrophysiological correlates of natural scene categorization in humans. The subject's task was to decide whether briefly presented natural scenes contained animal or non-animal items. Analysis of event-related potentials (ERPs) recorded during the categorization task, revealed more negative potentials for non-animal stimuli (NAS) in the time windows of 150-250 ms (N1) and 350-500 ms (N2), and more positive potentials for animal stimuli (AS) in the time window of 250-350 ms (P2). Our work provides an inexpensive noninvasive method to study both early perceptual and late phases of semantic information processing by recording ERPs during the categorization of natural scenes.
With the advent of gene cloning and sequencing, it has become increasingly common to identify novel genes for which no antibody is available. The best approach to study the expression and the distribution of these new genes is by in situ hybridization. One of the challenges with this method is to define the exact cellular subtype where the gene of interest is expressed. Conventional isotopic in situ hybridization methods lack precision for cellular identification because radioactive probes often result in a scattered signal. To identify the exact cellular subtype expressing BM88, we established a rapid colocalization method using non-isotopic in situ hybridization followed by chromogenic immunohistochemistry on the same tissue section. We demonstrated that BM88, which was identified from subtractive hybridization experiments between normal and ischemic tolerant brain tissue, was expressed exclusively in neurons in normal adult rat brain. Paraffin-embedded tissue was used as it resulted in better preservation of tissue and cellular morphology, thus allowing for more accurate histological localization of gene expression. It also allowed for retrospective studies on a number of archived tissue samples.
Optical recording methods using voltage-sensitive dyes have proven valuable for the analysis of neuronal networks both in vivo and in vitro. This technique detects membrane potential changes as changes in the absorption or fluorescence of voltage-sensitive dyes incorporated into the cellular plasma membranes. The reliability of the optical recording technique is dependent on the dye-related response being fast enough to follow the electrical activity and of the response being more or less proportional to the amplitude of the membrane potential change. A high spatial resolution can be achieved using an appropriate imaging system and a dye with a response of sufficiently high signal-to-noise ratio. Thus, it is now anticipated that this method will be able to shed more light on the spatio-temporal information processing of neocortical circuitry. While the FUJIX HR Deltaron 1700 optical imaging system offers a reasonably high time (0.6 ms) and space-resolution (7 microm at 10x magnification), one drawback of this system, however, is its relatively poor data processing capabilities. We have therefore developed a protocol to improve the signal-to-noise ratio by modifying the calculation algorithm of the optical data. Consequently, we characterized optical responses in thalamocortical slices to find developmental landmarks of thalamocortical and intracortical connectivity in the neonatal mouse barrel cortex. Successful application of this method has been published on the analysis of thalamocortical glutamatergic connectivity [8].
In order to study mechanisms by which a neurotropic strain of influenza A virus (A/WSN/33) may affect neuronal function or cause nerve cell death, hippocampal cultures from embryonic rats were infected with this virus. Approximately 70% of the neurons in the infected cultures became immunopositive for viral antigens and showed reduced voltage-dependent Ca(2+) currents in whole-cell patch clamp recordings, but no changes in other membrane properties or in cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration were seen. These immunopositive neurons underwent apoptosis 3-4 days after infection. Ca(2+) channel inhibitors had no significant effect on neuronal survival. The immunonegative population of neurons survived, but displayed increased frequency of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents of gamma-amino-butyric acid origin compared with controls. The frequency of alpha-amino-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid hydrobromide (AMPA) receptor-mediated miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents was not altered. Viral nucleoproteins, overexpressed using the Semliki Forest virus system, were localized to the dendritic spines as shown by double immunolabeling with actinin, but did not by themselves cause neuronal death or changes in synaptic transmission as measured by AMPA-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents. Our results show that an influenza A virus infection can cause selective neurophysiological changes in hippocampal neurons and that these can persist even after the viral antigens have been cleared.
Placental transfer of the pentapeptide [Met5]-enkephalin, known to function as a growth regulating factor and neuromodulatory agent, was studied in pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats. Using separation by reversed phase high-performance liquid chromatography, and analysis by derivative spectroscopy, [Met5]-enkephalin was detected in 20-day-old fetal tissue including brain, heart, lung, and kidney. Fetal tissues from pregnant rats given an injection of 40 mg/kg [Met5]-enkephalin on gestation day 20 had markedly elevated levels of peptide within 1 h, indicating the transplacental transfer of this opioid. [Met5]-enkephalin levels were increased from control samples at 1, 2, 4, and 14 h post-injection of peptide, but not at 24 h. Evaluation of breakdown products of [Met5]-enkephalin, along with the related peptide [Leu5]-enkephalin, revealed that elution times differed substantially from [Met5]-enkephalin. These data indicate that [Met5]-enkephalin is present in fetal organs, crosses the placenta, does not appear to be restrictive in organ specificity, and is sustained in fetal tissues at detectable levels for at least 14 h. Given that [Met5]-enkephalin tonically inhibits DNA synthesis in the fetus, these results raise the question of whether an elevated level of this peptide (either maternally or from the fetus) may be detrimental to cellular ontogeny in the fetus, and perhaps have long-term implications for postnatal development.
The dissociation of immediate and delayed word repetition was studied using a continuous recognition memory task and event-related potential (ERP). Among 240 stimulus words, 40 words were not repeated, 100 were immediately repeated and 100 were repeated after 5 intervening words. Words presented only once during the experiment were referred to as new words. Subjects responded faster and more accurately to words repeated immediately than to new words and to words repeated after a delay. In terms of ERP results, immediate repetition was associated with large P300 amplitude, early P300 latency and the absence of N400, while delayed repetition was associated with small P300 amplitude, late P300 latency and the presence of N400. N400 was elicited only to new words and to those repeated after intervening words. The general morphology of the waveforms was similar for two repetition conditions until around 310 ms after the onset of stimulus. These results indicate that distinct neural systems subserve the immediate and delayed repetition effect, and that the difference between the two emerges around 310 ms poststimulus. Immediate and delayed word repetition are considered in terms of template matching and memory searching, and are possibly mediated by the parietal and left medial temporal lobes, respectively.
Recent studies have indicated a role for the thalamus in attention, arousal and the capacity to perform tasks of speeded information processing. The present study evaluated the role of the thalamus in age-related cognitive decline by investigating the correlations between thalamic volume, cognition and age. This was done in 57 healthy subjects ranging from 21 to 82 years of age. All subjects underwent neurocognitive testing with information processing tests and structural magnetic resonance imaging. A significant decrease in volume of the thalamus with increasing age was found, relatively stronger than and independent of the decrease of total brain volume. The decrease of thalamic volume was apparent before the onset of loss of volume of the total brain. Over the age-span studied, the thalamic decrease in volume correlated with the diminished performance on tests of cognitive speed. Additionally, in young and middle-aged, but not in old subjects, the size of the thalamus predicted performance on tasks that require cognitive speed.
Text processing requires inferences for establishing coherence between successive sentences. In neuropsychological studies and brain imaging studies, these coherence-building processes have been ascribed to the right hemisphere. On the other hand, there is evidence for prefrontal brain damage causing non-aphasic language disorders, in which text level processes are impaired. In this study, we used an event-related, whole-head fMRI methodology to evaluate the contributions of prefrontal areas and the right hemisphere to coherence building. We scanned 12 participants while they read 120 sentence pairs and judged their coherence. Four conditions were used, resulting from crossing coherence and cohesion (i.e. the presence of a lexical connection). A behavioral pretest confirmed that cohesion aided establishing coherence, whereas it hindered the detection of coherence breaks. In the fMRI study, all language conditions yielded activation in left frontolateral and temporolateral regions, when compared to a physical control task. The differences due to coherence of the sentence pairs were most evident in larger activation for coherent as compared to incoherent sentence pairs in the left frontomedian wall, but also in posterior cingulate and precuneal regions. Finally, a left inferior prefrontal area was sensitive to the difficulty of the task, and in particular to the increase in processing costs when cohesion falsely indicated coherence. These results could not provide evidence for a special involvement of the right hemisphere during inferencing. Rather, they suggest that the left frontomedian cortex plays an important role in coherence building.
Sensitivity and bias can be manipulated independently on a recognition test. The goal of this fMRI study was to determine whether neural activations associated with manipulations of a decision criterion would be anatomically distinct from neural activations associated with manipulations of memory strength and episodic retrieval. The results indicated that activations associated with shifting criteria (a manipulation of bias) were located in bilateral regions of the lateral cerebellum, lateral parietal lobe, and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex extending from the supplementary motor area. These regions were anatomically distinct from activations in the prefrontal cortex produced during memory-based retrieval processes (manipulations of sensitivity), which tended to be more medial and anterior. These later activations are consistent with previous studies of episodic retrieval. Determining patterns of neural activations associated with decision-making processes relative to memory processes has important implications for Cognitive Neuroscience, including the use of these patterns to compare memory models in different paradigms.
This study describes the morphology and distribution of setae on the lateral and medial flagella of the antennules of the spiny lobster Panulirus argus in an effort to identify antennular chemoreceptors in addition to the well-studied aesthetasc chemosensilla. Setae were examined using light and electron microscopy, and their distribution on flagellar annuli was analyzed. We identified ten setal types based on external morphology: hooded, plumose, short setuled, long simple, medium simple, short simple, aesthetasc, guard, companion, and asymmetric setae, with the last four types being unique to the &quot;tuft&quot; located on the distal half of the lateral flagellum. The three setal types whose ultrastructure was examined--hooded, long simple, and medium simple setae--had characteristics of bimodal (chemo-mechanoreceptive) sensilla. The antennules have four distinct annular types based on their setal complement, as shown by cluster analysis. This basic distribution of non-tuft setal types is similar for both lateral and medial flagella. Annuli in the tuft region have tuft setal types superimposed on a basic organization of non-tuft setal types. These results show that the antennules possess a diverse set of setae, that these setae have a highly ordered arrangement on the antennules, that at least four (and probably many more) of these setal types are chemosensilla, and suggest that most antennular chemosensilla are bimodally sensitive.
This study examined the effect of cocaine on cell proliferation in the fetal monkey cerebral wall. Pregnant monkeys received cocaine daily (10 mg/kg, orally, in fruit treats, at 07.00 h and 19.00 h) beginning on the 40th day of pregnancy (E40). The control animals received fruit treats only. One set of monkeys was used to examine the state of cell proliferation in the fetal cerebral wall at peak cocaine levels. These animals were injected with [(3)H]thymidine intravenously on E73, 1.5 h after the morning drug or placebo administration. Another set of monkeys was used to determine the state of cell proliferation after cocaine concentration declined to ineffective levels. These animals were injected with [(3)H]thymidine on the same day of pregnancy 10 h after the treatment. Cesarean sections were performed 40 min after the radioisotope injection. The right hemispheres were processed for autoradiography. The left hemispheres were used for biochemical analysis of the radioisotope incorporation into DNA. The third set of monkeys was used to determine whether chronic cocaine treatment extends the timing of neocortical neuronogenesis. These monkeys received their final cocaine treatment on E102 (the last day of normal neocortical neuronogenesis) and were injected with [(3)H]thymidine 24 h later. On E113, the fetal brains were processed for emulsion autoradiography. We found a significant decrease in the density of [(3)H]thymidine-labeled cells and in the levels of this radioisotope incorporation into DNA in the fetal cerebral wall 1.5 h after cocaine administration. In contrast, 10 h after cocaine administration we detected a significantly elevated density of radiolabeled cells, and abnormally high levels of [(3)H]thymidine incorporation into DNA. This suggests that chronic intermittent administration of cocaine results in significant periodic fluctuations in cell production within the fetal cortical proliferative zones. We detected no cocaine-induced extension in neocortical neuronogenesis.
Learning-related modifications in predisposition for long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) were studied in brain slices of the rat piriform cortex following olfactory learning. Rats were trained to discriminate between pairs of odors until they demonstrated rule learning. We have previously shown that such training is accompanied by enhanced neuronal excitability and increased synaptic transmission in the intrinsic synaptic pathway. Here we show that the susceptibility for further enhancing synaptic connectivity by inducing LTP in slices from trained rats is markedly reduced after training, compared with slices from pseudo-trained and naive rats. Accordingly, while 900 stimuli at 1 Hz did not induce LTD in slices from control rats, it induced significant LTD in slices from trained rats. Post-tetanic potentiation (PTP) was also reduced after training, indicating that synaptic release is enhanced after odor learning, as previously suggested. We suggest that learning-related cellular modifications and activity-dependent synaptic plasticity share a common mechanism in the primary olfactory cortex. Our data also support the prediction generated according to the sliding modification threshold theory that learning should be accompanied by reduced capability of inducing LTP and increased susceptibility for LTD induction.
A working hypothesis is proposed for piriform cortex (PC) and other olfactory cortical areas that redefines the traditional functional roles as follows: the olfactory bulb serves as the primary olfactory cortex by virtue of encoding 'molecular features' (structural components common to many odorant molecules) as a patchy mosaic reminiscent of the representation of simple features in primary visual cortex. The anterior olfactory cortex (that has been inappropriately termed the anterior olfactory nucleus) detects and stores correlations between olfactory features, creating representations (gestalts) for particular odorants and odorant mixtures. This function places anterior olfactory cortex at the level of secondary visual cortex. PC carries out functions that have traditionally defined association cortex--it detects and learns correlations between olfactory gestalts formed in anterior olfactory cortex and a large repertoire of behavioral, cognitive and contextual information to which it has access through reciprocal connections with prefrontal, entorhinal, perirhinal and amygdaloid areas. Using principles derived from artificial networks with biologically plausible parallel-distributed architectures and Hebbian synaptic plasticity (i.e. adjustments in synaptic strength based on locally convergent activity), functional proposals are made for PC and related cortical areas. Architectural features incorporated include extensive recurrent connectivity in anterior PC, predominantly feedforward connectivity in posterior PC and backprojections that connect distal to proximal structures in the cascade of olfactory cortical areas. Capabilities of the 'reciprocal feedforward correlation' architecture that characterizes PC and adjoining higher-order areas are discussed in some detail. The working hypothesis is preceded by a review of relevant anatomy and physiology, and a non-quantitative account of parallel-distributed principles. To increase the accessibility of findings for PC and to advertise its substantial potential as a model for experimental and modeling analysis of associative processes, parallels are described between PC and the hippocampal formation, inferotemporal visual cortex and prefrontal cortex.
In order to evaluate anti-human Fas antibody, we have established a new graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) model wherein splenocytes of human Fas transgenic mice (hFas-TgM) were transferred to immune-deficient SCID mice. In this model, although host SCID cells are not activated by or responsive to graft hFas-TgM cells, graft hFas-TgM cells are activated by and responsive to host SCID cells and thus cause GVHD symptoms. SCID mice that received hFas-TgM splenocytes had increased human Fas-positive lymphocytes in lymph nodes, decreased in body weight, and developed skin diseases, including rash and alopecia. Administration of novel anti-human Fas antibody HFE7A, which did not induce liver toxicity after administration to mice, decreased the level of the human Fas-positive lymphocytes, blocked the decrease of body weight, and suppressed development of skin diseases in this model. These results indicate that induction of apoptosis to activated graft cells with nontoxic anti-Fas antibody could reduce GVHD symptoms.


MR angiography has become a realistic diagnostic option for patients with neurovascular disease. MR angiography is not a single imaging sequence, but a collection of related methods for obtaining angiographic data. As a guide for practice, we review the literature on MR angiography in a spectrum of neurovascular indications with particular attention paid to choice of technique. The principles underlying the different techniques available are also presented. Summers, P. E.et al.

We report a case of Fabry's disease where stabilization of progressive cardiac involvement was recorded in a 29-yr-old Caucasian man, to our knowledge, for the first time by ultrasonic tissue characterization echocardiography after 1 yr of successful renal transplantation. Three echocardiographic evaluations have been made: the first 3 months before, the second 6 months after, and the third 1 yr after kidney transplantation. The myocardial structural damage - evaluated by integrated backscatter index - shows a persistence of the impairment of intrinsic myocardial contractility at septum level, probably due to coexistent hypertensive status, which is able to induce per se alterations of myocardial textural parameters. On the other hand, the cyclic variation index at posterior free wall, which is less dependent on strictly hemodynamic factors than the septum, appears quite normal at the third observation. These data could reflect the improvement of the ultrastuctural myocardial findings in relation to renal transplantation, which could correct not only renal failure but also the enzymatic deficiency by replacement of alpha-galactosidase A through the transplanted kidney.
Steroid hormone-induced variations in spatial learning and memory tasks have been reported. In this study, androgens' effects in various cognitive and affective tasks were investigated in order to determine whether any observed differences in cognitive performance could be due to affective changes produced by the hormones. Ovariectomized rats (N = 72) received 0.0, 3.0, or 7.5 mg/kg subcutaneously, of testosterone (T), dihydrotestosterone (DHT), or 5 alpha-androstane-3 alpha,17 beta-diol (3 alpha-Diol) suspended in 10% ethanol/sesame oil v/v. For the cognitive tasks (Y maze, inhibitory avoidance, and object recognition), subjects were injected after training trials. For the affective tasks (open field, elevated plus maze, and tailflick), subjects were injected 1 or 24 h before testing. Posttraining injections that produced physiological concentrations of androgens--T, DHT, and 3 alpha-Diol--1 h later increased the percentage of correct choices in the Y maze, the latencies to cross to the shock-associated side of the inhibitory avoidance chamber, and percentage of time exploring novel objects 24 h later, when androgen levels were no longer increased. Administration of T, DHT, and 3 alpha-Diol also increased the number of entries into the center squares of a brightly lit open field, open-arm time in the elevated plus maze, and tailflick latencies 1 but not 24 h following administration. These findings suggest that these androgens, when administered following training, can enhance cognitive performance in the tasks investigated 24 h later when androgen levels nadir, but overt changes in the affective behaviors examined occurred at the time of physiological concentrations 1 h but not 24 h following androgen administration. These findings suggest posttraining androgens can enhance consolidation and cognitive performance, independent of their anxiolytic actions.
Notions of objecthood have traditionally been cast in visuocentric terminology. As a result, theories of auditory and cross-modal perception have focused more on the differences between modalities than on the similarities. In this paper we re-examine the concept of an object in a way that overcomes the limitations of the traditional perspective. We propose a new, cross-modal conception of objecthood which focuses on the similarities between modalities instead of the differences. Further, we propose that the auditory system might consist of two parallel streams of processing (the 'what' and 'where' subsystems) in a manner analogous to current conceptions of the visual system. We suggest that the 'what' subsystems in each modality are concerned with objecthood. Finally, we present evidence for - and elaborate on - the hypothesis that the auditory 'where' subsystem is in the service of the visual-motor 'where' subsystem.
Issues concerning selective attention provoke new questions about visual segmentation, and vice-versa. We illustrate this by describing our recent work on grouping under conditions of inattention, on change blindness for background events and the residual processing of undetected background changes, on modal versus amodal completion in visual search, and the differential effects of these two forms of completion on attentional processes, and on attentional modulation of lateral interactions thought to arise in early visual cortex. Many of these results indicate that segmentation processes substantially constrain attentional processes, but the reverse influence is also apparent, suggesting an interactive architecture. We discuss how the 'proto-objects' revealed by studies of segmentation and attention (i.e. the segmented perceptual units which constrain selectivity) may relate to other object-based notions in cognitive science, and we wrestle with their relation to phenomenal visual awareness.

Surgical patients under anesthesia can wake up unpredictably and be exposed to intense, traumatic pain. Current medical techniques cannot maintain depth of anesthesia at a perfectly stable and safe level; the depth of unconsciousness may change from moment to moment. Without an effective consciousness monitor anesthesiologists may not be able to adjust dosages in time to protect patients from pain. An estimated 40,000 to 200,000 midoperative awakenings may occur in the United States annually. E. R. John and coauthors present the scientific basis of a practical &quot;consciousness monitor&quot; in two articles. One article is empirical and shows widespread and consistent electrical field changes across subjects and anesthetic agents as soon as consciousness is lost; these changes reverse when consciousness is regained afterward. These findings form the basis of a surgical consciousness monitor that recently received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. This may be the first practical application of research on the brain basis of consciousness. The other John article suggests theoretical explanations at three levels, a neurophysiological account of anesthesia, a neural dynamic account of conscious and unconscious states, and an integrative field theory. Of these, the neurophysiology is the best understood. Neural dynamics is evolving rapidly, with several alternative points of view. The field theory sketched here is the most novel and controversial.
BMS-204352 is a fluoro-oxindole potassium channel opener being developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb as a potential neuroprotectant for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke. Phase I trials were underway in Japan in 1998 [288541]. By July 1999, it was in phase II trials in the US [331682] and by October 2000, phase II trials had also begun in Japan [384751]. At the 219th American Chemical Society meeting in March 2000, it was reported that BMS-204352 had entered worldwide phase III trials involving patients with suspected acute stroke [362077], [361291]. In February 2001, Credit Suisse First Boston predicted sales of $111 million in 2005 [399484]. In February 1999, Lehman Brothers predicted the drug had a 30% probability of reaching market, with an estimated first launch date in 2004. The analysts predicted peak sales would occur in 2008, with sales of $500 million in the US at that time [319225].
Synaptic transmission of distinct patterns of spikes, or 'neural code', leads to plastic changes in synapses and other parts of the neuron, as well as learning in animals. Recent findings indicate that specialized multiprotein structures associated with neurotransmitter receptors and cell-adhesion proteins function as molecular devices that both read the neural code and initiate long-term changes in synaptic structure and function.
The PI3K-Akt signaling pathway plays a critical role in mediating survival signals in a wide range of neuronal cell types. The recent identification of a number of substrates for the serine/threonine kinase Akt suggests that it blocks cell death by both impinging on the cytoplasmic cell death machinery and by regulating the expression of genes involved in cell death and survival. In addition, recent experiments suggest that Akt may also use metabolic pathways to regulate cell survival.


Renewed interest in axonal injury in multiple sclerosis has significantly shifted the focus of research into this disease toward neurodegeneration. During the past year magnetic resonance and morphologic studies have continued to confirm and extend the concept that axonal transection begins at disease onset, and that cumulative axonal loss provides the pathologic substrate for the progressive disability that most long-term MS patients experience. Although inflammation and chronic demyelination are probable causes of axonal transection, little is known about the molecular mechanisms that are involved. The view that MS can also be considered an inflammatory neurodegenerative disease has important clinical implications for therapeutic approaches, monitoring of patients, and future treatment strategies.
Mitochondrial disorders represent a multitude of clinically heterogeneous diseases in which the genetic abnormality can involve either a mitochondrial or nuclear gene. In addition to inherited defects, somatic mitochondrial DNA mutations have been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disease, cancer and the ageing process. The recent emergence of the first mouse models of mitochondrial disease will provide valuable insights into disease mechanisms and aid the development of realistic therapeutic strategies.
The central nervous system (CNS) of higher organisms is bilaterally-symmetric. The transfer of information between the two sides of the nervous system occurs through commissures formed by neurons that project axons across the midline to the contralateral side of the CNS. Interestingly, these axons cross the midline only once. Other neurons extend axons that never cross the midline; they project exclusively on their own (ipsilateral) side of the CNS. Thus, the midline is an important choice point for several classes of pathfinding axons. Recent studies demonstrate that specialized midline cells play critical roles in regulating the guidance of both crossing and non-crossing axons at the ventral midline of the developing vertebrate spinal cord and the Drosophila ventral nerve cord. For example, these cells secrete attractive cues that guide commissural axons over long distances to the midline of the CNS. Furthermore, short-range interactions between guidance cues present on the surfaces of midline cells, and their receptors expressed on the surfaces of pathfinding axons, allow commissural axons to cross the midline only once and prevent ipsilaterally-projecting axons from entering the midline. Remarkably, the molecular composition of commissural axon surfaces is dynamically-altered as they cross the midline. Consequently, commissural axons become responsive to repulsive midline guidance cues that they had previously ignored on the ipsilateral side of the midline. Concomitantly, commissural axons lose responsiveness to attractive guidance cues that had initially attracted them to the midline. Thus, these exquisitely regulated guidance systems prevent commissural axons from lingering within the confines of the midline and allow them to pioneer an appropriate pathway on the contralateral side of the CNS. Many aspects of midline guidance are controlled by mechanistically and evolutionarily-conserved ligand-receptor systems. Strikingly, recent studies demonstrate that these receptors are modular; the ectodomains determine ligand recognition and the cytoplasmic domains specify the response of an axon to a given guidance cue. Despite rapid and dramatic progress in elucidating the molecular mechanisms that control midline guidance, many questions remain.

Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a distressing condition that impairs quality of life, and it deserves to be treated. It also has a large economic impact on healthcare utilization and absenteeism. IBS is a disorder in which three major mechanisms interact: altered gastrointestinal motility, increased sensory function of the intestine and psychosocial factors. The role of prior infection in the development of IBS is the subject of ongoing study. This article focuses on pathophysiological mechanisms, including the potential roles of mucosal changes and neurobiology in the development of IBS. Novel pharmacological agents are being developed to target neural mediators of IBS; they appear promising, and their role in clinical practice will be clarified with regulatory approval and clinical use.


This study investigated whether the PRL surge that precedes parturition is accompanied by a decrease in activity of hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular dopamine (TIDA) neurons, as occurs during the PRL surges of early pregnancy. Serial blood samples were collected at regular intervals during early and late pregnancy via chronic indwelling jugular cannulae, and concentrations of plasma PRL were determined by RIA. In addition, pregnant rats were killed at either 1200 and 0300 h on different days throughout pregnancy. Levels of TIDA neuronal activity were estimated using concentrations of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the median eminence as an index of dopamine metabolism. During early pregnancy, plasma PRL concentrations showed characteristic diurnal and nocturnal surges peaking at 1700 and 0300 h, respectively, whereas during late pregnancy, there was a broad nocturnal surge throughout the night preceding parturition. During early pregnancy, DOPAC was elevated at 1200 h, associated with suppressed plasma PRL, whereas at 0300 h, during the nocturnal PRL surge, DOPAC was significantly reduced (P &lt; 0.05). On the last day of pregnancy DOPAC levels were significantly reduced at both 1200 and 0300 h compared with those at 1200 h in early pregnancy regardless of the PRL concentration. This experiment was repeated with additional groups to further characterize the timing of the fall in TIDA activity during late pregnancy. DOPAC concentrations were elevated throughout the second half of pregnancy, then fell significantly between 0300-1200 h on day 21, approximately 36 h before parturition. As in the previous experiment, the timing of changes in DOPAC concentrations in the median eminence was dissociated from the antepartum PRL surge. These data indicate that the regulation of PRL secretion during late pregnancy is different from that of early pregnancy. Despite the prolonged reduction in activity of TIDA neurons during late pregnancy, PRL secretion still occurs as a nocturnal surge, suggesting that dopamine is not the only regulator of PRL secretion at this time.

The binding characteristics of the pBR (peripheral benzodiazepine receptor) inverse agonist, [3H]-Ro 5-4864, were examined in patients diagnosed as generalized anxiety disorder. As compared to normal healthy controls, the anxious subjects demonstrated a statistically significant (p &lt; 0.001) increase in the density of pBR in platelets. The enhanced pBR binding correlated significantly with the severity of global anxiety symptom of the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAR-S, p &lt; 0.001). The Psychic component, but not the Somatic component, of the HAR-S, correlated significantly (p &lt; 0.001) with the enhanced pBR binding in platelets. The results provide evidence for the hypothesis of dysregulation of peripheral benzodiazepine receptors in generalized anxiety disorder.
Lewis rats immunized with guinea pig myelin basic protein (GPBP) emulsified with incomplete Freund's adjuvant (IFA) do not develop experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). However, we found that GPBP/IFA with pertussis toxin (PT) administration induced full-blown EAE. By comparing the immunological status of rats immunized with GPBP/IFA plus PT [PT (+) rats] with that of rats immunized with GPBP/IFA alone [PT (-) rats], we tried to elucidate the pathomechanisms of EAE. Analysis of the TCR clonality by CDR3 spectratyping revealed that Vbeta8.2 and Vbeta10 expansion of T cells occurred in both PT (-) and PT (+) rats, indicating that activation of T cells at this level is not sufficient for the development of clinical EAE. Quantitation of cytokine mRNA and protein revealed that PT (-) rats showed a Th2-dominant, while PT (+) rats showed a Th1-dominant, cytokine profile. Furthermore, administration of IL-12, but not of IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha, induced clinical EAE in GPBP/IFA-immunized animals. Taken together, two-step activation, activation of T cells bearing a particular type of TCR by antigen immunization and subsequent overproduction of Th1 cytokines, mainly IL-12 production, induced by appropriate adjuvants is essential for the development of clinical EAE.
Optical imaging of electrical activity has been suggested as a promising approach to investigate the multineuronal representation of information processing in brain tissue. While considerable progress has been made in the development of instrumentation suitable for high-speed imaging, intrinsic or extrinsic dye-mediated optical signals are often of limited use due to their slow response dynamics, low effective sensitivity, toxicity or undefined cellular origin. Protein-based and DNA-encoded voltage sensors could overcome these limitations. Here we report the design and generation of a voltage-sensitive fluorescent protein (VSFP) consisting of a voltage sensing domain of a potassium channel and a pair of cyan and yellow emitting mutants of green fluorescent protein (GFP). In response to a change in transmembrane voltage, the voltage sensor alters the amount of fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between the pair of GFP mutants. The optical signals respond in the millisecond time-scale of fast electrical signalling and are large enough to allow monitoring of voltage changes at the single cell level.
In the guinea pig, unilateral labyrinthectomy causes an immediate and severe depression of the spontaneous activity of the ipsilateral central vestibular neurons, which subsequently recovers completely within one week. A possible underlying mechanism could be an increase in the endogenous activity of the neurons deprived of their labyrinthine input. Here, we addressed this hypothesis. The endogenous activity of the neurons was assessed by their spontaneous activity recorded extracellularly in brainstem slices in the presence of a cocktail of neurotransmitter blockers (CNQX, D-APV, bicuculline and strychnine) which freed them from their main synaptic influences. The left medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) was explored in a very systematic way and strict methodological precautions were taken in order to validate comparisons between the numbers of spontaneously active neurons recorded in the MVN of distinct slices. In the presence of neurotransmitter antagonists, the mean number of spontaneously active neurons detected in a single MVN increased dramatically from 9.5 in slices from control guinea pigs to 26.3 in slices from animals labyrinthectomized on the left side one week beforehand. The mean firing rate of the recorded neurons also increased from 7.5 +/- 5.6 spikes/s in slices from control animals to 12.3 +/- 7.6 spikes/s in slices from guinea pigs labyrinthectomized one week beforehand. These results show that deprivation of the vestibular neurons of their labyrinthine input caused a change in the deprived neurons themselves. They suggest that an increase in pacemaker activity might be a factor responsible for the restoration of spontaneous activity in the vestibular neurons after labyrinthectomy.
We have evaluated the contribution of differences in second messenger signalling to sex differences in inflammatory pain and its control by sex hormones. In normal male but not female rats, epinephrine-induced mechanical hyperalgesia was antagonized by inhibitors of protein kinase Cepsilon (PKCepsilon), protein kinase A (PKA) and nitric oxide synthetase (NOS). Similarly, in PKCepsilon knockout mice, a contribution of PKCepsilon to epinephrine-dependent mechanical hyperalgesia occurred in males only. In contrast, hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E2, in both females and males, was dependent on PKA and NO. In both sexes, inhibitors of mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular-signal related kinase kinase (MEK) inhibited epinephrine hyperalgesia. In gonadectomized females, the second messenger contributions to epinephrine hyperalgesia demonstrated the pattern seen in males. Administration of oestrogen to gonadectomized females fully reconstituted the phenotype of the normal female. These data demonstrate gender differences in PKCepsilon, PKA and NO signalling in epinephrine-induced hyperalgesia which are oestrogen dependent and appear to be exerted at the level of the beta-adrenergic receptor or the G-protein to which it is coupled.
In this event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study we examined the neuronal correlates of the subprocesses underlying recognition memory. In an explicit memory task, participants had to discriminate studied ('old') words from semantically related and unrelated 'new' (unstudied) words. We examined whether the correct rejection of semantically related words which were similar to old words, which had elicited correct responses, was based on conscious recollection of study phase information. In this task, false-positive responses to semantically related new words can be assumed to result from the assessment of the semantic similarity between test words and studied words with minimal recollection. For correct identification of old words and correct rejection of new related words we found common activation in a variety of brain areas that have been shown to be involved in conscious recollection, among them the left middle frontal gyrus, the precuneus, the retrosplenial cortex, the left parahippocampal gyrus and the thalamus. For correct responses to old words, the frontomedian wall, the posterior cingulate cortex and the nucleus accumbens were additionally activated, suggesting an emotional contribution to these judgements. Correct rejections of related new words were associated with additional activation of the right middle frontal gyrus, suggesting higher monitoring demands for these more difficult recognition judgements. False-positive responses to semantically related new words were associated with enhanced activation in the frontomedian wall. The results point to an important role of the prefrontal cortex as well as medial temporal and medial parietal regions of the brain in successful memory retrieval and conscious recollection.
Vasodilatation in the dura mater has been implicated in migraine pathogenesis. Anti-migraine triptan drugs block vasodilatation by binding to 5-HT1B/1D receptors localized on the peripheral sensory terminals and dural blood vessel smooth muscles. Previous studies suggest that calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) released from Adelta-fibres plays a more important role than substance P (SP) released from C-fibres in inducing dural vasodilatation and that one of the antimigraine mechanisms of triptan drugs is inhibiting CGRP release. In the present study, the relationship between CGRP and 5-HT1B/1D receptors, and between CGRP and SP in the trigeminal ganglion neurons in rats was examined by double immunohistochemical staining. CGRP, 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D and SP-positive trigeminal ganglion neurons were all predominantly small and medium-sized. In the trigeminal ganglia, approximately 50% of CGRP-positive neurons were 5-HT1B positive. Similarly, approximately 55% of CGRP-positive neurons were 5-HT1D immunoreactive. Approximately 50% of CGRP-positive neurons were SP-positive, while 93% of SP-positive neurons were CGRP-positive, suggesting that nearly all SP-positive neurons also contain CGRP. The fibre types of the 5-HT1B- and 5-HT1D-positive neurons were further investigated with an antibody against the A-fibre marker 200-kDa neurofilaments (NF200). Approximately 46% of the 5-HT1B-positive and 43% of the 5-HT1D-positive trigeminal ganglion neurons were also NF200 positive, indicating that many A-fibre trigeminal neurons express 5-HT1B or 5-HT1D receptors. These results support the hypothesis that one important action of antimigraine drugs is the inhibition of CGRP release and that Adelta-fibres may play an important role in migraine pathogenesis.
The present study investigated the occurrence and the clinical correlates of psychiatric co-morbidity in a sample of 64 patients with delusional disorder (DD). Subjects were evaluated with a semi-structured interview for the collection of demographic and clinical features of the disorder; co-morbid axis 1 disorders were determined according to the clinical interview using DSM-IV by Othmer and Othmer. Delusional disorder subjects with and without co-morbid diagnoses were compared to investigate whether the presence of another psychiatric disorder influenced the clinical features of the illness.Seventy-two percent of the subjects had at least one additional lifetime psychiatric diagnosis. High lifetime co-morbidity was found with affective disorders, whose onset generally had been subsequent to the onset of DD. Patients with at least one co-morbid disorder (N = 46) had an earlier age at onset, presented for the first psychiatric consultation at an earlier age, and were younger at index evaluation for this study with respect to patients without co-morbidity (N = 18). Types of DD differed significantly according to the presence/absence of lifetime co-morbid disorders: DD patients with co-morbidity were in most cases persecutory type (54.4%) while DD patients without co-morbidity were mixed type (66.7%). Our data indicate that there is a considerable proportion of patients whose DDr is strictly connected with other co-occurring psychiatric disorders (mainly affective disorders), which exert an influence on the phenomenology of the illness.

During the 1998 Neurolab mission (STS-90), four astronauts were exposed to interaural and head vertical (dorsoventral) linear accelerations of 0.5 g and 1 g during constant velocity rotation on a centrifuge, both on Earth and during orbital space flight. Subjects were oriented either left-ear-out or right-ear-out (Gy centrifugation), or lay supine along the centrifuge arm with their head off-axis (Gz centrifugation). Pre-flight centrifugation, producing linear accelerations of 0.5 g and 1 g along the Gy (interaural) axis, induced illusions of roll-tilt of 20 degrees and 34 degrees for gravito-inertial acceleration (GIA) vector tilts of 27 degrees and 45 degrees , respectively. Pre-flight 0.5 g and 1 g Gz (head dorsoventral) centrifugation generated perceptions of backward pitch of 5 degrees and 15 degrees , respectively. In the absence of gravity during space flight, the same centrifugation generated a GIA that was equivalent to the centripetal acceleration and aligned with the Gy or Gz axes. Perception of tilt was underestimated relative to this new GIA orientation during early in-flight Gy centrifugation, but was close to the GIA after 16 days in orbit, when subjects reported that they felt as if they were 'lying on side'. During the course of the mission, inflight roll-tilt perception during Gy centrifugation increased from 45 degrees to 83 degrees at 1 g and from 42 degrees to 48 degrees at 0.5 g. Subjects felt 'upside-down' during in-flight Gz centrifugation from the first in-flight test session, which reflected the new GIA orientation along the head dorsoventral axis. The different levels of in-flight tilt perception during 0.5 g and 1 g Gy centrifugation suggests that other non-vestibular inputs, including an internal estimate of the body vertical and somatic sensation, were utilized in generating tilt perception. Interpretation of data by a weighted sum of body vertical and somatic vectors, with an estimate of the GIA from the otoliths, suggests that perception weights the sense of the body vertical more heavily early in-flight, that this weighting falls during adaptation to microgravity, and that the decreased reliance on the body vertical persists early post-flight, generating an exaggerated sense of tilt. Since graviceptors respond to linear acceleration and not to head tilt in orbit, it has been proposed that adaptation to weightlessness entails reinterpretation of otolith activity, causing tilt to be perceived as translation. Since linear acceleration during in-flight centrifugation was always perceived as tilt, not translation, the findings do not support this hypothesis.
The effects of neonatal enucleation on the final adult pattern of retrospleniocollicular connection in the rat was studied using the anterograde tracer biotindextranamine 10,000 (BDA) iontophoretically injected in different anteroposterior locations of the retrosplenial cortex. Retrosplenial afferents are normally distributed in all collicular layers beneath the stratum griseum superficiale (SGS) throughout almost the entire rostrocaudal and lateromedial collicular axes. Neonatal enucleation caused an invasion of lower SGS by abundant retrosplenial afferents, whose distribution remained unaltered in intermediate and deep collicular layers. Axons entering the deafferented SGS showed variable morphologies and arborization patterns. Some of them ran lateromedially close to the SGS-stratum opticum (-SO) limit, giving rise to many collaterals which invaded the lower part of the SGS; whereas others formed narrow terminal arbors, mostly branching in the SO. In the intermediate layers, synaptic profiles were mainly found close to the borders of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) patches in both control and enucleated animals, indicating that neonatal enucleation does not alter the final pattern of retrospleniocollicular afferents to these collicular regions. The results presented here demonstrate that neonatal enucleation leads to the development of an aberrant projection from the retrosplenial cortex to the deafferented superficial layers of the superior colliculus. These results provide new information regarding the reorganization of connections subsequent to neonatal enucleation and suggest that, in enucleated animals, nonvisual multisensorial information could be relayed to central circuits which in intact animals belong to the visual system.
Movements of different body segments may be combined in different ways to achieve the same motor goal. How this is accomplished by the nervous system was investigated by having subjects make fast pointing movements with the arm in combination with a forward bending of the trunk that was unexpectedly blocked in some trials. Subjects moved their hand above the surface of a table without vision from an initial position near the midline of the chest to remembered targets placed within the reach of the arm in either the ipsi- or contralateral workspace. In experiment 1, subjects were instructed to make fast arm movements to the target without corrections whether or not the trunk was arrested. Only minor changes were found in the hand trajectory and velocity profile in response to the trunk arrest, and these changes were seen only late in the movement. In contrast, the patterns of the interjoint coordination substantially changed in response to the trunk arrest, suggesting the presence of compensatory arm-trunk coordination minimizing the deflections from the hand trajectory regardless of whether the trunk is recruited or mechanically blocked. Changes in the arm interjoint coordination in response to the trunk arrest could be detected kinematically at a minimal latency of 50 ms. This finding suggests a rapid reflex compensatory mechanism driven by vestibular and/or proprioceptive afferent signals. In experiment 2, subjects were required, as soon as they perceived the trunk arrest, to change the hand motion to the same direction as that of the trunk. Under this instruction, subjects were able to initiate corrections only after the hand approached or reached the final position. Thus, centrally mediated compensatory corrections triggered in response to the trunk arrest were likely to occur too late to maintain the observed invariant hand trajectory in experiment 1. In experiment 3, subjects produced similar pointing movements, but to a target that moved together with the trunk. In these body-oriented pointing movements, the hand trajectories from trials in which the trunk was moving or arrested were substantially different. The same trajectories represented in a relative frame of reference moving with the trunk were virtually identical. We conclude that hand trajectory invariance can be produced in an external spatial (experiment 1) or an internal trunk-centered (experiment 3) frame of reference. The invariance in the external frame of reference is accomplished by active compensatory changes in the arm joint angles nullifying the influence of the trunk motion on the hand trajectory. We suggest that to make a transition to the internal frame of reference, control systems suppress this compensation. One of the hypotheses opened to further experimental testing is that the integration of additional (trunk) degrees of freedom into movement is based on afferent (proprioceptive, vestibular) signals stemming from the trunk motion and transmitted to the arm muscles.
Experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN) is an animal model of the human disease Guillain-Barr syndrome. In this autoimmune inflammatory disease, CD4(+) T cells mediate demyelination in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Infiltrating macrophages and T cells as well as cytokines like interferon (IFN)-gamma are intimately involved in causing pathogenic effects. To investigate the role of IFN-gamma in cell-mediated EAN, IFN-gamma receptor-deficient mutant (IFN-gammaR(-/-)) C57BL/6 mice and corresponding wild-type mice were immunized with P0 peptide 180-199, a purified component of peripheral nerve myelin, and Freund's complete adjuvant. IFN-gammaR(-/-) mice exhibited later onset of clinical disease. The disease was also less severe than in wild-type mice. Fewer IL-12-producing but more IL-4-producing cells were found in sciatic nerve sections from IFN-gammaR(-/-) mice than from wild-type mice on day 24 postimmunization, i.e., at the peak of clinical EAN. At the same time, IFN-gammaR(-/-) mice had less infiltration of inflammatory cells, including macrophages, CD4(+) T cells, and monocytes, into sciatic nerve tissue and less demyelination. However, numbers of IFN-gamma-secreting cells from the spleen were significantly augmented in the IFN-gammaR(-/-) mice, reflecting a failure of negative feedback circuits. The IFN-gammaR deficiency did not affect the production of anti-P0 peptide 180-199-specific antibodies. These results indicate that IFN-gamma contributes to a susceptibility for EAN in C57BL/6 mice by promoting a Th1 cell-mediated immune response and suppressing a Th2 response.
Both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors have been implicated in the pathogenesis of neuronal injury. Activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) exacerbates neuronal cell death, whereas inhibition is neuroprotective. However, the mechanisms involved remain unknown. Activation of group I mGluR modulates multiple signal transduction pathways including stimulation of phosphoinositide hydrolysis, potentiation of NMDA receptor activity, and release of arachidonic acid. Here we demonstrate that whereas activation of group I mGluR by (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) potentiates NMDA-induced currents and intracellular calcium increases in rat cortical neuronal cultures, partial effects of group I mGluR activation or inhibition on neuronal injury induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation remain despite NMDA receptor blockade. DHPG stimulation also increases basal arachidonic acid release from rat neuronal-glial cultures and potentiates injury-induced arachidonic acid release in these cultures. Thus, activation of group I mGluR may exacerbate neuronal injury through multiple mechanisms, which include positive modulation of NMDA receptors and enhanced release of arachidonic acid.
The capacity of the central nervous system for axonal growth decreases as the age of the animal at the time of injury increases. Changes in the expression of neurotrophic factors within embryonic and early postnatal spinal cord suggest that a lack of trophic support contributes to this restrictive growth environment. We examined neurotrophic factor gene profiles by ribonuclease protection assay in normal neonate and normal adult spinal cord and in neonate and adult spinal cord after injury. Our results show that in the normal developing spinal cord between postnatal days 3 (P3) and P10, compared to the normal adult spinal cord, there are higher levels of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin 3 (NT-3), and glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) mRNA expression and a lower level of ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) mRNA expression. Between P10 and P17, there is a significant decrease in the expression of NGF, BDNF, NT-3, and GDNF mRNA and a contrasting steady and significant increase in the level of CNTF mRNA expression. These findings show that there is a critical shift in neurotrophic factor expression in normal developing spinal cord between P10 and P17. In neonate spinal cord after injury, there is a significantly higher level of BDNF mRNA expression and a significantly lower level of CNTF mRNA expression compared to those observed in the adult spinal cord after injury. These findings suggest that high levels of BDNF mRNA expression and low levels of CNTF mRNA expression play important roles in axonal regrowth in early postnatal spinal cord after injury.
High levels of both endocannabinoids and endocannabinoid receptors are present in the basal ganglia. Attention has recently focused on the role of endocannabinoids in the control of movement and in movement disorders of basal ganglia origin such as Parkinson's disease. We investigated CB1 cannabinoid receptor mRNA expression in the reserpine-treated rat model of Parkinson's disease using in situ hybridization. Reserpine treatment caused a topographically organized reduction in CB1 receptor mRNA expression in the striatum (ranging from 11.6% medially to 53.6% laterally and dorsally). No change in CB1 receptor mRNA expression was observed in the cerebral cortex or septum. This reduction in CB1 receptor mRNA expression may be secondary to increased endocannabinoid stimulation of the receptor as increased basal ganglia endocannabinoid levels have been shown to occur in this model of Parkinson's disease. The data support the idea that cannabinoid receptor antagonists may provide a useful treatment for the symptoms of Parkinson's disease.
Synthesis of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is increased in lesioned peripheral nerves and it is thought that this may cause increased expression of galanin (GAL) in axotomized dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons and also to promote axonal regeneration. We therefore compared effects of LIF and nerve growth factor (NGF) on galanin expression and axonal growth using cultured intact DRGs of adult mice. In control lumbar DRGs cultured for 3 days, only 16% of neurons were immunoreactive for GAL, but this was increased to 38% in preparations cultured with LIF. NGF by itself had no effect on GAL expression, but the proportion of GAL-positive neurons in cultures incubated with LIF and NGF together (22%) was less than that observed in DRGs cultured with LIF alone. Similar results were obtained using thoracic DRGs. In collagen gels, NGF caused marked increases in the numbers and lengths of outgrowing axons as observed in previous studies. In contrast, LIF did not stimulate axonal outgrowth but increased the proportions of axons which were immunoreactive for GAL. The results indicate that expression of LIF in lesioned nerves may affect expression of neuropeptides such GAL rather than stimulating axonal regeneration.
To improve transplantation results of fetal suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in SCN-lesioned (SCNX) rats, grafts were ex vivo transduced with an adenoviral vector encoding for neurotrophin-3 (AdNT-3) before implantation. Mock- and AdLacZ-transduced grafts were used as controls. First, transplants were evaluated microscopically and by image analysis for the presence of vasopressinergic (VPergic) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptidergic (VIPergic) SCN neurons at 10 weeks or later postgrafting. Ex vivo AdNT-3-transduced transplants displayed increased volume areas of VPergic and VIPergic SCN cells in comparison with those in mock- and AdLacZ-transduced transplants, but significantly improved graft-to-host VPergic and VIPergic SCN fiber growth was not reached (though AdNT-3-transduced transplants tended to grow more VPergic fibers into the brain of VP-deficient SCNX Brattleboro rat recipients, which were chosen as recipients to circumvent the presence of non-SCN VP fiber staining). Second, a small group of arrhythmic Wistar rats received AdNT-3- or control-treated SCN grafts while continuously on-line for the monitoring of overt circadian activities in the pre- and postgrafting periods. The results indicated that ex vivo transduced SCN grafts can still restore arrhythmia, but that the NT-3-mediated anatomical improvements of the grafting results were not sufficient to enhance efficacy of reinstatement of circadian rhythm in SCN-lesioned rats. However, in this group VIP staining volume area, not VP staining volume area, correlated significantly with reinstatement of circadian rhythm.
The survival of different neuron types and the expression of the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) after focal cerebral ischemia were studied in the mouse striatum using immunocytochemical and histochemical techniques and stereological procedures. As assessed at 1 week after 30 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion, the order of vulnerability was projection neurons &gt; parvalbumin-expressing interneurons &gt; nitric oxide synthase-containing interneurons &gt; cholinergic interneurons. Within the ischemic lesion, projection neurons were almost completely lost whereas cholinergic interneurons were spared. Calretinin-immunoreactive interneurons also seemed resistant to the insult. Expression of p75(NTR) was induced in cholinergic interneurons within the lesioned area, raising the possibility of a protective action. However, the number of cholinergic interneurons was unaffected in p75(NTR) knockout mice subjected to the same ischemic insult. These quantitative data demonstrate that striatal neurons in the mouse are differentially susceptible to ischemic damage and argue against a significant role of p75(NTR) for the high resistance of cholinergic interneurons.
Efforts have been made to counteract the symptoms of Parkinson's disease by substituting the loss of dopaminergic neurons with fetal ventral mesencephalic grafts. One of the postulated limiting factors in this treatment is the relatively poor cell survival and limited graft-derived fiber outgrowth. Recent results documenting enhanced survival of grafted dopaminergic neurons showed no positive correlation to enhanced innervation of the striatal target. Therefore this study was undertaken to investigate whether all surviving grafted dopaminergic neurons projected to the striatal target. Hence, fetal ventral mesencephalic tissue was implanted adjacent to mature versus immature striatal tissue using in oculo and intraventricular grafting techniques. In in oculo grafting, fetal ventral mesencephalon was implanted simultaneously with fetal lateral ganglionic eminence (immature striatal target) or to already matured striatal in oculo grafts (mature striatal target). Furthermore, fetal ventral mesencephalon was implanted into the lateral ventricle adjacent to mature dopamine-depleted striatum. The retrograde tracer fluorogold was injected into the striatal portion of the in oculo cografts and into reinnervated areas of the adult brain. Immunohistochemistry revealed that a significantly larger proportion of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the ventral mesencephalic graft was innervating in oculo immature striatal tissue, and hence was fluorogold-positive, in comparison with the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons innervating mature striatal tissue. Moreover, intracranial transplantations showed that tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons were distributed within the grafts in dense clusters of cells. In most clusters tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells were fluorogold-negative but calbindin-positive. In a few tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell clusters, neurons were coexpressing fluorogold but were calbindin-negative. In conclusion, significantly more dopamine neurons projected to immature than to mature striatal tissue and thus, a subpopulation of grafted dopaminergic neurons was not projecting into adult striatum. Thus, the results from this study show that further attempts to enhance survival of grafted dopamine neurons in purpose to enhance graft-derived fiber outgrowth and efficacy should also consider different subtypes of dopamine neurons.
Nogo is a myelin-associated protein known to inhibit growth of neurites. In order to understand possible physiological roles of Nogo, we performed in situ hybridization using rat and human probes complementary to a Nogo-A-specific sequence and a sequence shared by all known Nogo transcripts recognizing nogo-A, -B, and -C. We studied the cellular distribution of nogo-mRNA in fetal and adult human and rat tissues, with a focus on the spinal cord and ganglia. Rat mRNA expression was also studied in a spinal cord weight-drop model and in animals exposed to kainic acid. In human fetal tissue, nogo-A was strongly expressed in the ventral two-thirds of the spinal cord, the dorsal root ganglia, and autonomic ganglia. Similarly, nogo-A mRNA expression was observed in the adult human spinal cord and ganglia. High levels of nogo-A message were observed in neurons, such as motor neurons and sensory ganglia neurons. The distribution of nogo message in rats resembled that seen in human tissues. Thus, nogo mRNA was expressed in neurons and oligodendrocytes, but not astrocytes or Schwann cells. In addition, expression of nogo-A mRNA was observed in human and rat developing muscle tissue. High level of nogo-mRNA were also expressed in the rat trigeminal ganglion and trigeminal pontine nucleus. In fetal rats the adrenal gland and cell clusters in the liver were positive for the nogo-ABC pan-probe, but negative for the nogo-A probe. While neurons in the adult rat brain were generally positive, very prominent nogo-A mRNA and nogo-ABC mRNA signals were obtained from neurons of the hippocampus, piriform cortex, the red nucleus, and the oculomotor nucleus. Nogo-A mRNA expression was markedly reduced in the epicenter of a lesion in the spinal cord of adult rats 6 and 24 h after a weight-drop injury, while no perifocal upregulation of nogo mRNA was seen. No obvious change of nogo expression was detected in kainic acid exposed animals. In conclusion our in situ hybridization study has demonstrated widespread expression of nogo mRNA in the fetal, developing and adult nervous system of rat and man. In addition to oligodendroglial cells, high levels of nogo-A mRNA expression were found in neurons, raising important questions about the function of neuronal nogo mRNA. No obvious regulation of nogo was detected following injury.
In a previous study we provided evidence that embryonic (E) day 16 frontal cortical cells grafted into the occipital cortex of newborn rats receive inputs from the ventrolateral (VL) and ventromedial (VM) thalamic nuclei which, normally, project to the frontal cortex (25). The present study was designed to examine further the conditions of development of the thalamic innervation of heterotopic neocortical grafts. We demonstrate that VL/VM axons do not provide transitory aberrant input to the occipital cortex either in intact newborn animals or in rats having received neonatal occipital lesion and subsequent graft of E16 occipital cells. These findings indicate, therefore, that the VL/VM projection to the graft does not result from the stabilization of an initial widespread cortical projection from these thalamic nuclei occurring either spontaneously or in response to the lesion and homotopic transplantation procedures. We also show that the VL/VM projection to frontal-to-occipital grafts develops within a few days posttransplantation and is maintained in adulthood. Finally, this study establishes that most VL/VM axons which enter the grafts are not collaterals of thalamofrontal axons. After having reached the cortex, they proceed caudally primarily within the infragranular layers. The findings of this and previous (25) in vivo studies for the first time provide evidence that developing thalamic axons have the capacity to respond to signals from grafts of E16 cortical cells and are capable of deviating their trajectory to establish contact with the grafts. Only those axons arising from thalamic nuclei appropriate for the cortical locus of origin of the grafted cells respond to the guidance signals. The mechanisms by which the thalamic axons find their way to the graft probably rely on cell-contact signaling and/or long-range attraction exerted by diffusible molecules.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a huge unmet medical need. Studies of the brain pathology and genetics of familial forms of AD have led to the amyloid cascade hypothesis, stating that Abeta42, a proteolytic breakdown product of the large amyloid precursor protein, plays an early and critical role in AD pathogenesis. Abeta42 generation requires two proteases, beta- and gamma-secretase, and inhibition of these enzymes is a key focus of AD drug development. Progress in this area has been slow because these enzymes were not identified. Using an expression cloning strategy we have identified a novel membrane bound aspartic protease, BACE1 and demonstrated that it exhibits all known properties of beta-secretase. The enzyme has been characterised in detail. The crystal structure, which is critical for rational inhibitor design, has been solved and shown to be very similar to that of other pepsin family members. Our most recent BACE1 knockout studies show that BACE1 is critical for Abeta generation; however the knockout mice show an otherwise normal phenotype, raising the possibility that therapeutic BACE1 inhibition could be accomplished without major mechanism based toxicity.


Translin and Trax are components of an RNA binding complex initially detected in extracts of brain and testes. Although other tissues appear to contain much lower or negligible levels of the Translin/Trax gel-shift complex, we found, unexpectedly, that several of these peripheral tissues express Translin and Trax proteins at levels comparable to those present in brain. In this study, we demonstrate that the paradoxically low levels of the Translin/Trax complex in kidney and other peripheral tissues are due to masking of these sites by endogenous RNA. Thus, these findings indicate that the Translin/Trax complex is involved in RNA processing in a broader range of tissues than previously recognized.
Although aging per se affects function throughout the gut, particularly after age 70, the observed changes are relatively modest and often asymptomatic, perhaps because of the vast reserve of neuromuscular functional elements in the gut. The proximal esophagus, anus, and pelvic floor are possible exceptions to this generalization, and the combination of aging and factors such as minor strokes or obstetric damage often results in dysphagia, constipation, or fecal incontinence. Managing elderly patients with functional abdominal pain demands clinical acumen, tact, understanding, and patience. Further studies are required to elucidate the consequences of aging on gastrointestinal sensorimotor function at several levels of the digestive tract. With the expected explosion in the proportion of the population older than age 75, this field should become a high priority for clinical and research efforts. Also required will be a major campaign to educate patients and practitioners and multidisciplinary collaborations among primary care practitioners, gastroenterologists, psychologists, and physiatrists to provide optimal pain management in the elderly.

Vector systems for the regulated and reversible expression of therapeutic genes are likely to improve the safety and efficacy of gene therapy for medical disease. In the present study, we investigated whether the expression of genes transferred into the central nervous system by ex vivo gene therapy can be regulated in vivo leading to controlled neuronal survival and axonal growth. Primary rat fibroblasts were transfected with a retrovirus containing a tetracycline responsive promoter for the expression of the neurotrophin nerve growth factor (NGF) or green fluorescent protein as a control (GFP). After lesions of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, NGF-mediated neuronal rescue and axonal growth could be completely controlled over a 2-week period by the addition or removal of the tetracycline modulator doxycycline in the animals' drinking water. Further, continued expression of the reporter gene GFP could be reliably and repeatedly turned on and off in the injured CNS for at least 3 months post-grafting, the longest time point investigated. These data constitute the first report of regulated neuronal rescue and axonal growth by controlled neurotrophin gene delivery and long-term, regulated expression using ex vivo CNS gene therapy.
Neuroendocrine axes function as an ensemble of regulatory loci which communicate and maintain homeostasis via time-delayed blood-borne signals. The growth hormone (GH)-insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) feedback axis sustains a vividly pulsatile mode of interglandular signalling. Pulsatility is driven jointly by hypothalamic GH-releasing hormone (GHRH) and GH-releasing peptide (GHRP), and modulated by somatostatinergic restraint. Paradoxically, intermittent somatostatin inputs also facilitate somatotrope-cell responses to recurrent secretagogue stimuli, thereby amplifying pulsatile GH secretion. A concurrent low basal (8-12% of normal total) rate of GH release is controlled positively by GHRH and GHRP and negatively by somatostatin. Sex-steroid hormones (such as oestradiol and aromatizable androgen) and normal female and male puberty augment GH secretory-burst mass 1.8- to 3.5-fold, whereas ageing, relative obesity, physical inactivity, hypogonadism, and hypopituitarism mute the amplitude/mass of pulsatile GH output. An abrupt rise in circulating GH concentration stimulates rapid internalization of the GH receptor in peripheral target tissues, and evokes second-messenger nuclear signalling via the STAT 5b pathway. Discrete GH peaks stimulate linear (skeletal) growth and drive muscle IGF-I gene expression more effectually than basal (time-invariant) GH exposure. A brief pulse of GH can saturate the plasma GH-binding protein system and achieve prolonged plasma GH concentrations by convolution with peripheral distribution and clearance mechanisms. A single burst of GH secretion also feeds back after a short latency on central nervous system (CNS) regulatory centres via specific brain GH receptors to activate somatostatinergic and reciprocally subdue GHRH outflow. This autoregulatory loop probably contributes to the time-dependent physiologically pulsatile dynamics of the GH axis. More slowly varying systemic IGF-I concentrations may also damp GH secretory pulse amplitude by delayed negative-feedback actions. According to this simplified construct, GH pulsatility emerges due to time-ordered multivalent interfaces among GHRH/GHRP feedforward and somatostatin, GH and IGF-I feedback signals. Resultant GH pulses trigger tissue-specific gene expression, thereby promoting skeletal and muscular growth, metabolic and body compositional adaptations, and CNS reactions that jointly maintain health and homeostasis.
Response properties of the middle layers of feline primary auditory cortex neurons to simple sounds were compared for isoflurane versus pentobarbital anesthesia in a within subject study control design. Initial microelectrode recordings were made under isoflurane anesthesia. After a several hour washout period, recordings were repeated at spatially matched locations in the same animal under pentobarbital. The median spatial separation between matched recording locations was 50 microns. Excitatory frequency tuning curves (n=71 pairs) to tone bursts and entrainment to click train sequences (n=64 pairs) ranging from 2 to 38 Hz were measured. Characteristic frequency and BW10 and BW30 were not different under either anesthetic. The spontaneous rate was slightly decreased (P&lt;0.05) for isoflurane (median 4.2 spikes/s) compared to pentobarbital (median 5.8 spikes/s). Minimum median threshold and latency were elevated by 12 dB and 2 ms, respectively, under isoflurane. Entrainment to click sequences assumed a lowpass filter profile under both anesthetics, but was markedly impoverished under isoflurane. Responses to click sequences under isoflurane were phasic to the first click but had very poor following to subsequent elements. Compared to pentobarbital, isoflurane appears to have a profound impact on response sensitivity and temporal response properties of auditory cortical neurons.
The binding properties and the regional densities of histamine H(1) receptors were studied in brain of rats with portacaval anastomosis (PCA) and in autopsied brain tissue from cirrhotic patients with hepatic encephalopathy (HE). Receptor binding studies and quantitative receptor autoradiography were performed, employing [(3)H]mepyramine. Histamine H(1) receptors in rat brain displayed a higher density and a lower affinity compared with control human frontal cortex. Specific [(3)H]mepyramine binding was heterogeneously distributed throughout the brain in both species. In human brain, binding was highest in the parietal and temporal cortices and lowest in caudate-putamen. In rat brain, binding was highest in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, ventromedial hypothalamus, and nucleus accumbens. Cortical tissue from PCA rats and frontal cortical tissue from HE patients contained significantly increased densities (B(max)) of H(1) receptors. A selective increase in H(1) receptor density was also observed in parietal and insular cortices of HE patients. Results of the present study suggest a selective up-regulation of brain H(1) receptors in PCA rats and in patients with HE. The central histaminergic system is implicated in the control of arousal and circadian rhythmicity. Previous studies have shown that blockade of H(1) receptors in PCA rats results in improved locomotor activity and circadian rhythmicity scores. The present findings suggest that cortical histaminergic hyperactivity could contribute to the neuropsychiatric symptoms characteristic of human HE, and that selective histamine H(1) receptor antagonists could be beneficial in the prevention and treatment of some of the symptoms of HE in cirrhotic patients.
The green fluorescent protein (GFP) has become a powerful tool in molecular and cell biology. It is a commonly used marker for cloning and transfection experiments as well as a useful label of living cells allowing continuous observation of developing structures. In order to unravel mechanisms of neuronal differentiation, we generated a transgenic mouse model which expresses GFPS65T,hu under the control of the Purkinje cell-specific promoter L7/pcp-2. Here, we show that GFPS65T,hu is highly expressed specifically in the cerebellum in whole mount preparations after the 2nd postnatal week. GFPS65T,hu can be detected exclusively in Purkinje cells of cerebellar slices. The fluorescence intensity of GFPS65T,hu should enable the characterization and recording of axons, dendrites, and spines protruding from these neuronal processes. The level of GFP expression can be quantified by western blotting which allows to analyze protein expression and L7/pcp-2 promoter regulation in vivo. The application of cellular and physiological techniques on L7GFP mice will provide a remarkable opportunity to investigate various aspects of neuronal development at the cellular and subcellular levels.

Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by an expanded CAG repeat in exon 1 of the gene coding for the huntingtin protein. The cellular pathway by which this mutation induces HD remains unknown, although alterations in protein degradation are involved. To study intrinsic cellular mechanisms linked to the mutation, we examined dissociated postnatally derived cultures of striatal neurons from transgenic mice expressing exon 1 of the human HD gene carrying a CAG repeat expansion. While there was no difference in cell death between wild-type and mutant littermate-derived cultures, the mutant striatal neurons exhibited elevated cell death following a single exposure to a neurotoxic concentration of dopamine. The mutant neurons exposed to dopamine also exhibited lysosome-associated responses including induction of autophagic granules and electron-dense lysosomes. The autophagic/lysosomal compartments co-localized with high levels of oxygen radicals in living neurons, and ubiquitin. The results suggest that the combination of mutant huntingtin and a source of oxyradical stress (provided in this case by dopamine) induces autophagy and may underlie the selective cell death characteristic of HD.
Chronic use of MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine), or 'ecstasy', is associated with significant cognitive impairments, particularly in laboratory and field tests of memory for previously encoded material. Less is known about the effects of a history of MDMA use on aspects of everyday cognitive functioning-of which prospective memory (typically characterised as 'remembering to do something at some future point') is an important aspect. Self-ratings of prospective memory among 30 regular ecstasy users (taking the drug 10 or more times per month) and 31 ecstasy-free controls were compared. Each participant completed the Prospective Memory Questionnaire, which measures self-rated error frequencies relating to three aspects of prospective memory (short-term habitual, long-term episodic and internally cued); the scale also records the use of strategies to aid remembering. Compared with non-users, ecstasy users reported significantly more self-rated errors in prospective memory, an effect which was evident after co-varying levels of other drug use. There were no significant differences in the use of strategies to aid memory. These findings provide new insights into prospective memory dysfunction in recreational drug users. Prospective memory deficits may be related to the reported serotonergic and frontal lobe deficits in chronic MDMA users. It is necessary to use more objective tasks to assess putative prospective memory deficits in ecstasy users. Copyright 2001 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.
This Special Section of Int J Neuropsychopharmacol highlights current progress in paediatric neuropsychopharmacology. Combining critical reviews and, in some cases, new data, specific topics include: biological findings in major depression, sleep dysregulation in depressed youth, cardiovascular and ventilatory dysregulation in panic disorder, paediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorder associated with strep (PANDAS), age of onset as a subtype marker in tic and obsessive--compulsive disorders (OCD), functional and pharmaconeuroanatomy of OCD and the behavioural pharmacokinetics of methylphenidate. In this introductory section, these articles are placed in the context of the state-of-the field and, more specifically, within the framework of recent NIMH initiatives in paediatric neuropsychopharmacology.




Abbreviations: AD, Alzheimer's disease; AbetaPP, amyloid beta protein precursor; BACE, beta-site AbetaPP cleaving enzyme; PS1, presenilin-1; PS2, presenilin-2; APOE, apolipoprotein E; LRP, low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein; SNPs, single-nucleotide polymorphisms; A2M, alpha-2-macroglobulin. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder associated with dementia in the elderly population. Its clinical symptoms are manifest with increasing prominence during mid- to late stages of adulthood. In the absence of precise biological indicators that precede or accompany the cognitive decline, diagnostic confirmation of AD requires postmortem detection of histopathological characteristics such as amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and extensive cortical atrophy. While the etiology of AD remains incompletely understood, it was recognized early on that the observed familial aggregation of AD implied the presence of one or more inherited susceptibility markers that could be useful in diagnosis and treatment. To date, genetic analyses of these pedigrees have resolved four independent genetic loci linked with inherited susceptibility to AD.
Neuropsychological assessment potentially subserves several functions in subjects in whom Alzheimer's disease (AD) is suspected. Such assessment can detect the presence of brain disease once significant neuronal disruption has occurred. Analysis of the pattern and evolution of cognitive deficits allows inferences to be drawn regarding the likely underlying pathology. Neuropsychological assessment enables delineation of the particular cognitive strengths and weaknesses of individual patients, facilitating the construction of individual management programs. Lastly, cognitive testing provides a cost-effective means of monitoring disease progression and the effects of treatment. This review describes the typical pattern and evolution of cognitive deficits in AD, outlines a number of variant presentations, discusses the differential diagnosis from other dementias, and addresses the issue of progression to clinically probable AD in the cognitively impaired, non-demented elderly. It is anticipated that biomarkers for AD will complement neuropsychological assessment by enabling disease detection before unequivocal cognitive deterioration has ensued, and by improving the accuracy of clinical diagnosis of dementia type. The development of reliable biomarkers will also enable improvements in the sensitivity and accuracy of neuropsychological assessment in AD to be made, more quickly and efficiently than is currently possible using longitudinal studies.
Many studies have sought to document ototoxic damage and to study repair and regeneration of mammalian vestibular sensory epithelia. However, linear density analysis of the sensory cells or use of methods that focus on detection of actin in the stereocilia and cuticular plates at the reticular lamina detect only the disappearance of &quot;hair cells&quot; as defined by a narrow set of criteria. The research presented here focuses on the effects of two ototoxic drugs (gentamicin and streptomycin). We used light microscopic analysis of semithin sections to observe changes in the distribution of sensory and supporting cell nuclei and to elucidate other, previously undetected, morphological changes that occurred within the vestibular epithelia. Age-matched untreated and vehicle-treated controls showed that the gerbil posterior crista is asymmetrical on either side of the septum cruciatum; the longer end is taller and narrower than the shorter end. In cross sections taken throughout the length of each posterior crista, the thickness of the sensory epithelium along the sides (peripheral zone) is greater than at the apex (central zone). In tissue sections of the sensory epithelium, the ratio of sensory cell nuclei to support cell nuclei is slightly over 1:1.5 in all regions except the septum cruciatum where most sensory cells are absent and supporting cells predominate. In tissue sections from the most damaged drug-treated specimens, there was a decrease in the linear density of nuclei in the sensory cell layer, with a compensatory increase in the linear density of nuclei in the support cell layer of the sensory epithelia. In these specimens, linear density of total nuclei/tissue section remained the same. In these regions, the width of the epithelium became up to 50% thinner. The ratio of sensory to supporting cell nuclei changed to 1:6. Drug exposure led additionally to a decrease in length of the cristas, but there was not a linear relationship between the change in length of the crista and length of the septum cruciatum in these shorter cristas. In drug-treated cristas, other changes included a decrease in calculated surface area and volume of the epithelia. Thus, while linear density measurements of sensory cell nuclei provide an indication of damage, there are additional anatomic changes to the cristas and caution is advised with regard to interpreting changes as &quot;loss&quot; of cells.
In this study we demonstrate a direct interaction between a cytosolic fibroblast growth factor family member and a sodium channel. A yeast two-hybrid screen for proteins that associate with the cytoplasmic domains of the tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium channel rNa(v)1.9a (NaN) led to the identification of fibroblast growth factor homologous factor 1B (FHF1B), a member of the fibroblast growth factor family, as an interacting partner of rNa(v)1.9a. FHF1B selectively interacts with the C-terminal region but not the other four intracellular segments of rNa(v)1.9a. FHF1B binds directly to the C-terminal polypeptide of rNa(v)1.9a both in vitro and in mammalian cell lines. The N-terminal 5-77 amino acid residues of FHF1B are essential for binding to rNa(v)1.9a. FHF1B did not interact with C termini of two other sodium channels hNa(v)1.7a (hNaNE) and rNa(v)1.8a (SNS), which share 50% similarity to the C-terminal polypeptide of rNa(v)1.9a. FHF1B is the first growth factor found to bind specifically to a sodium channel. Although the functional significance of this interaction is not clear, FHF1B may affect the rNa(v)1.9a channel directly or by recruiting other proteins to the channel complex. Alternatively, it is possible that rNa(v)1.9a may help deliver this factor to the cell membrane, where it exerts its function.
Degeneration of neurons in Alzheimer's disease is mediated by beta-amyloid peptide by diverse mechanisms, which include a putative apoptotic component stimulated by unidentified signaling events. This report describes a novel beta-amyloid peptide-binding protein (denoted BBP) containing a G protein-coupling module. BBP is one member of a family of three proteins containing this conserved structure. The BBP subtype bound human beta-amyloid peptide in vitro with high affinity and specificity. Expression of BBP in cell culture induced caspase-dependent vulnerability to beta-amyloid peptide toxicity. Expression of a signaling-deficient dominant negative BBP mutant suppressed sensitivity of human Ntera-2 neurons to beta-amyloid peptide mediated toxicity. These findings suggest that BBP is a target of neurotoxic beta-amyloid peptide and provide new insight into the molecular pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease.
The effect of 95- (HRgpA) and 50-kDa gingipain R (RgpB), arginine-specific cysteine proteinases from periodontopathogenic bacterium Porphyromonas gingivalis on human prothrombin activation was investigated. Each enzyme released thrombin from prothrombin in a dose- and time-dependent manner with the former enzyme, containing adhesion domains, being 17-fold more efficient than the single chain RgpB. A close correlation between the generation of fibrinogen clotting activity and amidolytic activity indicated that alpha-thrombin was produced by gingipains R, and this was confirmed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, thrombin active site labeling, and amino-terminal sequence analysis of prothrombin digestion fragments. Significantly, the catalytic efficiency of HRgpA to generate thrombin (k(cat)/K(m) = 1.2 x 10(6) m(-)1 s(-)1) was 100-fold higher than that of RgpB (k(cat)/K(m) = 1.2 x 10(4) m(-)1 s(-)1). The superior prothrombinase activity of HRgpA over RgpB correlates with the fact that only the former enzyme was able to clot plasma, and kinetic data indicate that prothrombin activation can occur in vivo. At P. gingivalis-infected periodontitis sites HRgpA may be involved in the direct production of thrombin and, therefore, in the generation of prostaglandins and interleukin-1, both have been found to be associated with the development and progression of the disease. Furthermore, by taking into account that the P. gingivalis bacterium has been immunolocalized in carotid atherosclerotic plaques at thrombus formation sites (Chiu, B. (1999) Am. Heart J. 138, S534-S536), our results indicate that bacterial proteinases may potentially participate in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease associated with periodontitis.
In Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus), short days suppress reproductive function and lymphocyte proliferation. To determine whether melatonin influences cell-mediated immunity through a direct action on lymphocyte proliferation, in vitro responsiveness to mitogens and melatonin was assessed in systemic and splenic lymphocytes from adult female Siberian hamsters housed in either long or short days for 13 weeks. Short days provoked reproductive regression and reduced lymphocyte proliferation. Physiological concentrations of melatonin (50 pg/ml) inhibited in vitro proliferation of circulating lymphocytes, whereas higher concentrations (&gt; or = 500 pg/ml) were required to inhibit proliferation of splenic lymphocytes. Immunomodulatory effects of melatonin were restricted to lymphocytes from long-day hamsters-in vitro melatonin had no effect on circulating or splenic lymphocytes from females in short days. Responsiveness to melatonin in short-day lymphocytes may be restrained by the already expanded nightly pattern of melatonin secretion in short days. These data support the hypothesis that melatonin acts directly on lymphocytes from long-day hamsters to suppress blastogenesis.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is the principal generator of circadian rhythms and is part of an entrainment system that synchronizes the animal with its environment. Here, we review the possible communication of timing information from the SCN to peripheral tissues involved in regulating fundamental physiological functions as revealed using a viral, transneuronal tract tracer, the pseudorabies virus (PRV). The sympathetic nervous system innervation of the pineal gland and the sympathetic outflow from brain to white adipose tissue were the first demonstrations of SCN-peripheral tissue connections. The inclusion of the SCN as part of these and other circuits was the result of lengthened postviral injection times compared with those used previously. Subsequently, the SCN has been found to be part of the sympathetic outflow from the brain to brown adipose tissue, thyroid gland, kidney, bladder, spleen, adrenal medulla, and perhaps the adrenal cortex. The SCN also is involved in the parasympathetic nervous system innervation of the thyroid, liver, pancreas, and submandibular gland. Individual SCN neurons appear connected to more than one autonomic circuit involving both sympathetic and parasympathetic innervation of a single tissue, or sympathetic innervation of two different peripheral tissues. Collectively, the results of these PRV studies require an expansion of the traditional roles of the SCN to include the autonomic innervation of peripheral tissues and perhaps the modulation of neuroendocrine systems traditionally thought to be controlled solely by hypothalamic stimulating/inhibiting factors.
Recent experiments, drawing upon single-molecule, solution kinetic and structural techniques, have clarified our mechanistic understanding of class V myosins. The findings of the past two years can be summarized as follows: (1) Myosin V is a highly efficient processive motor, surpassing even conventional kinesin in the distance that individual molecules can traverse. (2) The kinetic scheme underlying ATP turnover resembles those of myosins I and II but with rate constants tuned to favor strong binding to actin. ADP release precedes dissociation from actin and is rate-limiting in the cycle. (3) Myosin V walks in strides averaging approximately 36 nm, the long pitch pseudo-repeat of the actin helix, each step coupled to a single ATP hydrolysis. Such a unitary displacement, the largest molecular step size measured to date, is required for a processive myosin motor to follow a linear trajectory along a helical actin track.
Axon guidance requires the integration of diverse guidance signals presented by numerous extracellular cues and cell-cell interactions. The molecular mechanisms that interpret these signals involve networks of intracellular signaling proteins that coordinate a variety of responses to the environment, including remodeling and assembly of the actin cytoskeleton. Although it has been clear for some time that Rho family GTPases play a central role in the orchestration of cytoskeletal assembly, our understanding of the components that regulate these important molecules is far more primitive. Recent functional studies of the Trio family of guanine-nucleotide-exchange factors reveal that Trio proteins play a vital role in neuronal cell migration and axon guidance. Although the molecular analysis of Trio proteins is still in its infancy, accumulated evidence suggests that Trio proteins function as integrators of multiple upstream inputs and as activators of multiple downstream pathways. Future studies of these mechanisms promise to yield insights not only into neural development but also into the ongoing function and remodeling of the adult nervous system.
Tie-1 and Tie-2 are receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) that are exclusively expressed in endothelial cells and play important roles in endothelial cell biology. The authors have reported previously the temporal profiles of Tie-1 and Tie-2 mRNA expression after focal cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. In the current study, the localization of Tie-1/Tie-2 mRNA and proteins were further investigated in the same focal ischemia model. In situ hybridization showed that, after 60-minute ischemia and 72-hour reperfusion, both Tie-1 and Tie-2 mRNA appeared as capillary-like structures in the ischemic middle cerebral artery (MCA) cortex. Western blot analysis showed a biphasic expression of Tie-1 protein in the same region. The first peak, spanning the ischemic and early reperfusion period. was of low intensity and short-lived. The second peak was of greater intensity and spanning the period from 72 to 168 hours after reperfusion. Similarly, Tie-2 expression at the protein level also exhibited a biphasic pattern. Immunohistochemical studies, after 72 hours of reperfusion, showed that although Tie-1 and Tie-2 were detected within the ischemic cortex, they actually were expressed in different populations of endothelial cells in different regions. In agreement with the in situ hybridization study, Tie-1 immunoreactivity appeared as capillary-like structures in cortical layers 2 to 4. Similar capillary-like appearance of Tie-2 immunoreactivity was noted in the outer cortical layers. In addition, Tie-2 immunoreactivity also was observed in cortical layer 6b, where de novo large vessel formation was noted. Cellular colocalization experiments revealed that Tie-2 is expressed in proximity to its antagonist, Angpo-2, as well as basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in cortical layer 1, where active vessel remodeling was noted. Interestingly, bFGF only partially colocalized with VEGF, suggesting differential roles for these angiogenic factors during vessel remodeling. Tie-1 protein, to a lesser degree, also colocalized with Angpo-2, bFGF, and VEGF in cortical layer 1. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed increased regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) corresponding to the expression of these angiogenesis gene products. Together, these findings suggest that the evolving expression of angiogenesis genes underlie the robust vascular remodeling after ischemia and reperfusion.
The goal of this study was to collect prospective longitudinal information on the development of an epidemiologically defined cohort of patients with Tourette syndrome. These data may improve prognostic understanding of the condition. This information will also be important for specification of an adult phenotype for genetic marker studies. A prospective longitudinal cohort study was conducted. Fifty-four of 73 patients from our 1986 prevalence study of Tourette syndrome in North Dakota school-aged children were eligible for inclusion. The subjects were diagnosed in 1984 and 1985. We were able to interview 39 of 54 eligible patients for 507 person-years of follow-up. For the cohort, tic severity declined by 59%, global assessment of functioning improved by 50%, and the average number of comorbidities decreased by 42%. Forty-four percent of patients were essentially symptom free at follow-up. Only 22% were on medication as adults. Tourette syndrome is a developmental neuropsychiatric disorder with a long-term course that is favorable for most patients. Males demonstrated substantially more variability in improvement but overall demonstrated more improvement than females.
Subcutaneous calcifications occur in a variety of diseases, including juvenile dermatomyositis. These calcifications cause disabling symptoms that do not always respond to immunosuppressant therapy. The calcium antagonist diltiazem reduces subcutaneous calcifications in CREST syndrome and in isolated cases of children with dermatomyositis. Our study was performed to determine the effects of diltiazem when used as adjunctive therapy in children with dermatomyositis.

Recent well-controlled studies suggest that estrogen has antidepressant actions in perimenopausal women. Estrogen may also have antidepressant actions in postpartum women and across the life cycle for women who are resistant to treatment with various antidepressants. The question, however, of which depressed women to treat with antidepressants, which with estrogen, and which with both remains unanswered.
First generation H1 receptor antagonists are often associated with adverse CNS effects such as sedation, whereas modern, second generation antihistamines are generally non-sedating. The difference in therapeutic profile is mainly due to the poor CNS penetration of the modern derivatives. Current explanations for the differential ability of classical and modern antihistamines to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB), based on differences in lipophilicity or protein binding, are inadequate. We have tested the hypothesis that non-sedating antihistamines fail to enter the CNS due to recognition by the P-glycoprotein (Pgp) drug efflux pump expressed on the luminal surface of cerebral endothelial cells forming the BBB in vivo. The ability of several sedating and non-sedating antihistamines to affect the uptake of the Pgp model substrate [3H]-colchicine was examined using the immortalised rat brain endothelial cell line, RBE4, an established in vitro model of the BBB expressing Pgp. All second generation antihistamines tested, significantly increased net accumulation of [3H]-colchicine to a level similar to that caused by the Pgp inhibitor verapamil. By contrast, the first generation antihistamines showed no affinity for Pgp. The results indicate that differences in the ability of classical and modern antihistamines to interact with Pgp at the BBB may determine their CNS penetration and as a consequence the presence or absence of central side-effects.
This study aimed at understanding how visual information is used to locate the center of mass. The center of mass is an important physical property of objects that must be taken into account when grasping and/or manipulating them. Participants were instructed to identify the point of equilibrium of compact, bidimensional, massless shapes displayed on a touch screen. The point of equilibrium was defined as the point on the face of the object that would allow one to balance the object in the horizontal position. Seven different triangles and 18 different quadrilaterals in different orientations were used as stimuli. It was found that participants can accurately and consistently estimate the position of the center of mass. The small observed errors were systematically influenced by the shape of the object. The participants tended to locate the center of mass at the center of an inscribed circle instead of the true center of mass. In general, the shape effect was impervious to the orientation of the figure and to the mode of response (left hand, right hand, or mouse).
Mutations in the presenilin 1 gene (PS1) account for the majority of early onset, familial, autosomal dominant forms of Alzheimer's disease (AD), whereas its role in other late onset forms of AD remains unclear. A -48 C/T polymorphism in the PS1 promoter has been associated with an increased genetic risk in early onset complex AD and moreover has been shown to influence the expression of the PS1 gene. This raises the possibility that previous conflicting findings from association studies with homozygosity for the PS1 intron 8 polymorphism might be the result of linkage disequilibrium with the -48 CC genotype. Here we provide further evidence of increased risk of AD associated with homozygosity for the -48 CC genotype (odds ratio=1.6). We also report a phenotypic correlation with Abeta(40), Abeta(42(43)), and total Abeta load in AD brains. The -48 CC genotype was associated with 47% greater total Abeta load (p&lt;0.003) compared to CT + TT genotype bearers. These results suggest that the -48 C/T polymorphism in the PS1 promoter may increase the risk of AD, perhaps by altering PS1 gene expression and thereby influencing Abeta load.


Excitatory post-synaptic currents in the CNS are primarily mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptors in response to glutamate. Internalization of cell-surface receptors has been shown to be one mechanism by which to control receptor function. To test for agonist control of AMPA receptor plasma membrane expression we used biochemical assays to study AMPA receptor internalization and insertion processes. In heterologous cells, we observed a slow constitutive internalization and a rapid agonist-induced internalization of AMPA receptors. To our surprise, however, agonist treatment had no effect on the steady-state levels of AMPA receptors on the cell surface. To examine whether this could be explained by an agonist-induced increase in the insertion rate of AMPA receptors into the plasma membrane we developed an assay to independently measure receptor insertion. Remarkably, agonist treatment of cells also dramatically increased AMPA receptor plasma membrane insertion rates. In addition, using an assay to measure recycling of internalized pools we found that internalized receptors are rapidly recycled to the cell surface. These results suggest that agonist-induced receptor internalization is coupled to increases in receptor recycling. This increase in receptor flux through intracellular pools may allow for rapid changes in receptor surface expression by independent regulatory control of internalization and insertion.
Activation of the calcium-dependent protease calpain has been proposed to be a key step in synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. However, the exact pathway through which calpain mediates or modulates changes in synaptic function remains to be clarified. Here we report that glutamate receptor-interacting protein (GRIP) is a substrate of calpain, as calpain-mediated GRIP degradation was demonstrated using three different approaches: (i) purified calpain I digestion of synaptic membranes, (ii) calcium treatment of frozen-thawed brain sections, and (iii) NMDA-stimulated organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. More importantly, calpain activation resulted in the disruption of GRIP binding to the GluR2 subunit of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors. Because GRIP has been proposed to function as an AMPA receptor-targeting and synaptic-stabilizing protein, as well as a synaptic-organizing molecule, calpain-mediated degradation of GRIP and disruption of AMPA receptor anchoring are likely to play important roles in the structural and functional reorganization accompanying synaptic modifications in long-term potentiation and long-term depression.
The coupling of opioid receptor-like (ORL1) receptors to adenylyl cyclase has been investigated in specific layers of the rat main olfactory bulb. Membranes prepared from the olfactory nerve-glomerular layer (ON-G layer), external plexiform layer (EP layer) and granule cell layer (GR layer) displayed specific binding sites for [(3)H]-nociceptin/orphanin FQ ([(3)H]Noc/OFQ). In each layer, the presence of high-and low-affinity binding sites, with K(D) values in the picomolar and nanomolar range, respectively, was detected. The binding of [(3)H]Noc/OFQ was displaced by unlabelled Noc/OFQ, but not by opioid antagonists. In each layer, Noc/OFQ significantly stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding with nanomolar potencies. In ON-G layer, Noc/OFQ inhibited basal adenylyl cyclase activity and the enzyme stimulations by corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH), Ca(2+)/calmodulin (Ca(2+)/CaM) and forskolin (FSK). In EP layer, Noc/OFQ inhibited Ca(2+)/CaM-and FSK-stimulated enzyme activities. Conversely, in GR layer the peptide stimulated basal cyclase activity and potentiated the enzyme activation by CRH. The Noc/OFQ stimulation was counteracted by the GDP-bound form of the alpha subunit of transducin and was mimicked by transducin betagamma subunits. In the same tissue layer, Ca(2+)/CaM-and FSK-stimulated enzyme activities were inhibited. Naloxone failed to antagonize all the actions of Noc/OFQ. Western blot and RT-PCR analysis revealed the expression of Ca(2+)-insensitive and -sensitive adenylyl cyclases in the three layers. These results demonstrate that in rat main olfactory bulb ORL1 receptors can differentially affect distinct forms of adenylyl cyclase in a layer specific manner.
Stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1), the ligand of the CXCR4 receptor, is a chemokine involved in chemotaxis and brain development that also acts as co-receptor for HIV-1 infection. We previously demonstrated that CXCR4 and SDF-1alpha are expressed in cultured type-I cortical rat astrocytes, cortical neurones and cerebellar granule cells. Here, we investigated the possible functions of CXCR4 expressed in rat type-I cortical astrocytes and demonstrated that SDF-1alpha stimulated the proliferation of these cells in vitro. The proliferative activity induced by SDF-1alpha in astrocytes was reduced by PD98059, indicating the involvement of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2) in the astrocyte proliferation induced by CXCR4 stimulation. This observation was further confirmed showing that SDF-1alpha treatment selectively activated ERK1/2, but not p38 or stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase (SAPK/JNK). Moreover, both astrocyte proliferation and ERK1/2 phosphorylation, induced by SDF-1alpha, were inhibited by pertussis toxin (PTX) and wortmannin treatment indicating the involvement of a PTX sensitive G-protein and of phosphatidyl inositol-3 kinase in the signalling of SDF-1alpha. In addition, Pyk2 activation represent an upstream components for the CXCR4 signalling to ERK1/2 in astrocytes. To our knowledge, this is the first report demonstrating a proliferative effect for SDF-1alpha in primary cultures of rat type-I astrocytes, and showing that the activation of ERK1/2 is responsible for this effect. These data suggest that CXCR4/SDF-1 should play an important role in physiological and pathological glial proliferation, such as brain development, reactive gliosis and brain tumour formation.
A role for neurotrophic factors, in particular brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), in modulating synaptic plasticity in the adult brain has been described in recent years by several laboratories. A great deal of emphasis has been placed on establishing its precise role in the expression of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus. Here we attempt to address this question by investigating, first, its release following induction of LTP in perforant path-granule cell synapses and, second, the signalling events which follow activation of the BDNF receptor, TrkB, in the presynaptic terminal. We report that BDNF release is increased from slices of dentate gyrus following tetanic stimulation of the perforant path and that TrkB activation is increased in synaptosomes prepared from tetanized dentate gyrus. These changes are accompanied by increased activation of one member of the family of mitogen-activated protein kinases, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and the data indicate that these events play a role in modulating release of glutamate from perforant path-granule cell synapses, because the Trk inhibitor K252a and the ERK inhibitor, UO126, both inhibited the BDNF-induced enhancement of release. We propose that the increase in phosphorylation of the transcription factor cAMP response element binding protein and in protein synthesis might underlie the more persistent components of LTP in dentate gyrus.
Leptin is an adipose tissue-derived cytokine hormone, which reduces body weight via interactions with hypothalamic neurones. Leptin receptors capable of activating the JAK-STAT signal transduction pathway are expressed at high levels in the hypothalamus, particularly in the arcuate nucleus. In order to identify the chemical mediators of leptin's action in the hypothalamus, we have examined whether GABA neurones of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus contain leptin receptors and the leptin-activated transcription factor STAT3. GABAergic neurones, as visualized by antisera to the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and GABA, were demonstrated in the ventromedial and ventrolateral parts of the arcuate nucleus. GABA neurones in the ventromedial arcuate nucleus were shown to contain leptin receptor immunoreactivity, as revealed using an antiserum generated to a sequence common to all isoforms of the leptin receptor (Ob-R), as well as an antiserum generated to the carboxy-terminal end of the long leptin receptor (Ob-Rb), and immunoreactivity for the leptin-induced signal transduction molecule STAT3. Ventromedial GABA neurones were also shown to contain neuropeptide Y, whereas ventrolateral proopiomelanocortin-containing neurones lacked GAD and GABA immunoreactivity. Levels of mRNA for GAD65, GAD67 and the vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT) were analysed in the arcuate nucleus of leptin-deficient ob/ob mice and lean control mice by in situ hybridization. No significant differences in GAD65, GAD67 or VGAT mRNA were detected in the arcuate nucleus of ob/ob mice as compared to lean control mice. The presence of leptin receptor and STAT3 in GABAergic arcuate neurones, but absence of changes in gene transcription for GAD and VGAT mRNA suggests, that leptin does not transcriptionally regulate the expression of proteins involved in GABAergic transmission in arcuate neurones. However, mechanisms other than transcriptional regulation for leptin to influence arcuate GABA neurones may exist.
Serum IgMs from 4 of 12 patients with polyneuropathy and IgM M-proteins that bind to sulfated glucuronyl paragloboside (SGPG) strongly immunostained the human peripheral nerve myelin (group A), whereas those from the other eight patients strongly immunostained the cytoplasm of the Schwann cells surrounding the myelin sheath with only weak staining of the myelin (group B). Strong immunostaining of peripheral myelin by IgMs from group A patients may be due to the strong cross-reactivities against P0 and peripheral myelin protein-22 (PMP-22), which are localized in compact myelin. Only three patients (all in group B) showed some response to the immunotherapies. Weak reactivities to P0 and and PMP-22 might indicate the possibility of improvement after the immunotherapies.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are cation-dependent endopeptidases which have been implicated in the malignancy of gliomas. It is thought that the MMPs play a critical role in both metastasis and angiogenesis, and that interference with proteases might therefore deter local tumor dissemination and neovascularization. However, the attempt to control tumor-associated proteolysis will rely on better definition of the normal tissue function of MMPs, an area of study still in its infancy in the central nervous system (CNS). Understanding the role of MMP-mediated proteolysis in the brain relies heavily on advances in other areas of molecular neuroscience, most notably an understanding of extracellular matrix (ECM) composition and the function of cell adhesion molecules such as integrins, which communicate knowledge of ECM composition intracellularly. Recently, protease expression and function has been shown to be strongly influenced by the functional state and signaling properties of integrins. Here we review MMP function and expression in gliomas and present examples of MMP profiling studies in glioma tissues and cell lines by RT-PCR and Western blotting. Co-expression of MMPs and certain integrins substantiates the gathering evidence of a functional intersection between the two, and inhibition studies using recombinant TIMP-1 and integrin antisera demonstrate significant inhibition of glioma invasion in vitro. Use of promising new therapeutic compounds with anti-MMP and anti-invasion effects are discussed. These data underline the importance of functional interaction of MMPs with accessory proteins such as integrins during invasion, and the need for further studies to elucidate the molecular underpinnings of this process.

Single-unit activity in area M1 was recorded in awake, behaving monkeys during a three-dimensional (3D) reaching task performed in a virtual reality environment. This study compares motor cortical discharge rate to both the hand's velocity and the arm's joint angular velocities. Hand velocity is considered a parameter of extrinsic space because it is measured in the Cartesian coordinate system of the monkey's workspace. Joint angular velocity is considered a parameter of intrinsic space because it is measured relative to adjacent arm/body segments. In the initial analysis, velocity was measured as the difference in hand position or joint posture between the beginning and ending of the reach. Cortical discharge rate was taken as the mean activity between these two times. This discharge rate was compared through a regression analysis to either an extrinsic-coordinate model based on the three components of hand velocity or to an intrinsic-coordinate model based on seven joint angular velocities. The model showed that velocities about four degrees-of-freedom (elbow flexion/extension, shoulder flexion/extension, shoulder internal/external rotation, and shoulder adduction/abduction) were those best represented in the sampled population of recorded activity. Patterns of activity recorded across the cortical population at each point in time throughout the task were used in a second analysis to predict the temporal profiles of joint angular velocity and hand velocity. The population of cortical units from area M1 matched the hand velocity and three of the four major joint angular velocities. However, shoulder adduction/abduction could not be predicted even though individual cells showed good correlation to movement on this axis. This was also the only major degree-of-freedom not well correlated to hand velocity, suggesting that the other apparent relations between joint angular velocity and neuronal activity may be due to intrinsic-extrinsic correlations inherent in reaching movements.
We measured the influence of gravitoinertial force (GIF) magnitude and direction on head-centric auditory localization to determine whether a true audiogravic illusion exists. In experiment 1, supine subjects adjusted computer-generated dichotic stimuli until they heard a fused sound straight ahead in the midsagittal plane of the head under a variety of GIF conditions generated in a slow-rotation room. The dichotic stimuli were constructed by convolving broadband noise with head-related transfer function pairs that model the acoustic filtering at the listener's ears. These stimuli give rise to the perception of externally localized sounds. When the GIF was increased from 1 to 2 g and rotated 60 degrees rightward relative to the head and body, subjects on average set an acoustic stimulus 7.3 degrees right of their head's median plane to hear it as straight ahead. When the GIF was doubled and rotated 60 degrees leftward, subjects set the sound 6.8 degrees leftward of baseline values to hear it as centered. In experiment 2, increasing the GIF in the median plane of the supine body to 2 g did not influence auditory localization. In experiment 3, tilts up to 75 degrees of the supine body relative to the normal 1 g GIF led to small shifts, 1--2 degrees, of auditory setting toward the up ear to maintain a head-centered sound localization. These results show that head-centric auditory localization is affected by azimuthal rotation and increase in magnitude of the GIF and demonstrate that an audiogravic illusion exists. Sound localization is shifted in the direction opposite GIF rotation by an amount related to the magnitude of the GIF and its angular deviation relative to the median plane.
Fast oscillations at gamma and beta frequency are relevant to cognition. During this activity, excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs and IPSPs) are generated rhythmically and synchronously and are thought to play an essential role in pacing the oscillations. The dynamic changes occurring to excitatory and inhibitory synaptic events during repetitive activation of synapses are therefore relevant to fast oscillations. To cast light on this issue in the CA1 region of the hippocampal slice, we used a train of stimuli, to the pyramidal layer, comprising 1 s at 40 Hz followed by 2--3 s at 10 Hz, to mimic the frequency pattern observed during fast oscillations. Whole cell current-clamp recordings from CA1 pyramidal neurons revealed that individual stimuli at 40 Hz produced EPSPs riding on a slow biphasic hyperpolarizing-depolarizing waveform. EPSP amplitude initially increased; it then decreased concomitantly with the slow depolarization and with a large reduction in membrane resistance. During the subsequent 10-Hz train: the cells repolarized, EPSP amplitude and duration increased to above control, and no IPSPs were detected. In the presence of GABA(A) receptor antagonists, the slow depolarization was blocked, and EPSPs of constant amplitude were generated by 10-Hz stimuli. Altering pyramidal cell membrane potential affected the time course of the slow depolarization, with the peak being reached earlier at more negative potentials. Glial recordings revealed that the trains were associated with extracellular potassium accumulation, but the time course of this event was slower than the neuronal depolarization. Numerical simulations showed that intracellular chloride accumulation (due to massive GABAergic activation) can account for these observations. We conclude that synchronous activation of inhibitory synapses at gamma frequency causes a rapid chloride accumulation in pyramidal neurons, decreasing the efficacy of inhibitory potentials. The resulting transient disinhibition of the local network leads to a short-lasting facilitation of polysynaptic EPSPs. These results set constraints on the role that synchronous, rhythmic IPSPs may play in pacing oscillations at gamma frequency in the CA1 hippocampal region.
Tyrosine kinases have recently been shown to modulate synaptic plasticity and ion channel function. We show here that tyrosine kinases can also modulate both the baseline excitability state of Aplysia tail sensory neurons (SNs) as well as the excitability induced by the neuromodulator serotonin (5HT). First, we examined the effects of increasing and decreasing tyrosine kinase activity in the SNs. We found that tyrosine kinase inhibitors decrease baseline SN excitability in addition to attenuating the increase in excitability induced by 5HT. Conversely, functionally increasing cellular tyrosine kinase activity in the SNs by either inhibiting opposing tyrosine phosphatase activity or by direct injection of an active tyrosine kinase (Src) induces increases in SN excitability in the absence of 5HT. Second, we examined the interaction between protein kinase A (PKA), which is known to mediate 5HT-induced excitability changes in the SNs, and tyrosine kinases, in the enhancement of SN excitability. We found that the tyrosine kinases function downstream of PKA activation since tyrosine kinase inhibitors reduce excitability induced by activators of PKA. Finally, we examined the role of tyrosine kinases in other forms of 5HT-induced plasticity in the SNs. We found that while tyrosine kinase inhibitors attenuate excitability produced by 5HT, they have no effect on short-term facilitation (STF) of the SN-motor neuron (MN) synapse induced by 5HT. Thus tyrosine kinases modulate different forms of SN plasticity independently. Such differential modulation would have important consequences for activity-dependent plasticity in a variety of neural circuits.
The role of the cerebellum in modulating nociceptive phenomena is unclear. In this study, we focus on the effects of cerebellar cortical stimulation on the responses of midline neurons of the lumbosacral spinal cord to graded nonnoxious and noxious visceral (colorectal distension) as well as somatic (brush, pressure, pinch) stimuli. Extracellular recording was used for the isolation and recording of spinal nociceptive neurons, while electrical current pulses and chemical injection of D, L-homocysteic acid were used to stimulate the cortex of the posterior cerebellar vermis. Cerebellar cortical stimulation increased the responses of all isolated cells to colorectal distension, whereas the effect on the responses to somatic stimuli was variable. These findings indicate that the posterior cerebellar vermis may exert a pro-nociceptive effect on spinal visceroceptive neurons.
Studies in several mammalian species have demonstrated that bilateral ablations of the auditory cortex have little effect on simple sound intensity and frequency-based behaviors. In the rat, for example, early experiments have shown that auditory ablations result in virtually no effect on the rat's ability to either detect tones or discriminate frequencies. Such lesion experiments, however, typically examine an animal's performance some time after recovery from ablation surgery. As such, they demonstrate that the cortex is not essential for simple auditory behaviors in the long run. Our study further explores the role of cortex in basic auditory perception by examining whether the cortex is normally involved in these behaviors. In these experiments we reversibly inactivated the rat primary auditory cortex (AI) using the GABA agonist muscimol, while the animals performed a simple auditory task. At the same time we monitored the rat's auditory activity by recording auditory evoked potentials (AEP) from the cortical surface. In contrast to lesion studies, the rapid time course of these experimental conditions preclude reorganization of the auditory system that might otherwise compensate for the loss of cortical processing. Soon after bilateral muscimol application to their AI region, our rats exhibited an acute and profound inability to detect tones. After a few hours this state was followed by a gradual recovery of normal hearing, first of tone detection and, much later, of the ability to discriminate frequencies. Surface muscimol application, at the same time, drastically altered the normal rat AEP. Some of the normal AEP components vanished nearly instantaneously to unveil an underlying waveform, whose size was related to the severity of accompanying behavioral deficits. These results strongly suggest that the cortex is directly involved in basic acoustic processing. Along with observations from accompanying multiunit experiments that related the AEP to AI neuronal activity, our results suggest that a critical amount of activity in the auditory cortex is necessary for normal hearing. It is likely that the involvement of the cortex in simple auditory perceptions has hitherto not been clearly understood because of underlying recovery processes that, in the long-term, safeguard fundamental auditory abilities after cortical injury.
The basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA) plays a significant role in affective behavior that is likely regulated by afferents from the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Studies suggest that dopamine (DA) is a necessary component for production of appropriate affective responses. In this study, prefrontal cortical and sensory cortical [temporal area 3 (Te3)] inputs to the BLA and their modulation by DA receptor activation was examined using in vivo single-unit extracellular recordings. We found that Te3 inputs are more capable of driving BLA projection neuron firing, whereas mPFC inputs potently elicited firing from BLA interneurons. Moreover, mPFC stimulation before Te3 stimulation attenuated the probability of Te3-evoked spikes in BLA projection neurons, possibly via activation of inhibitory interneurons. DA receptor activation by apomorphine attenuated mPFC inputs, while augmenting Te3 inputs. Additionally, DA receptor activation suppressed mPFC-induced inhibition of Te3-evoked spikes. Thus, the mPFC may attenuate sensory-driven amygdala-mediated affective responses via recruitment of BLA inhibitory interneurons that suppress sensory cortical inputs. In situations of enhanced DA levels in the BLA, such as during stress and after amphetamine administration, mPFC regulation of BLA will be dampened, leading to a disinhibition of sensory-driven affective responses.
The peptide somatostatin [somatotropin release-inhibiting factor (SRIF)] is widely distributed in the body and exerts a variety of hormonal and neural actions. Several lines of evidence indicate that SRIF is important in nociceptive processing: (1) it is localized in a subset of small-diameter dorsal root ganglion cells; (2) activation of SRIF receptors results in inhibition of both nociceptive behaviors in animals and acute and chronic pain in humans; (3) SRIF inhibits dorsal horn neuronal activity; and (4) SRIF reduces responses of joint mechanoreceptors to noxious rotation of the knee joint. The goal of the present study is to show that cutaneous nociceptors are under the tonic inhibitory control of SRIF. This is accomplished using behavioral and electrophysiological paradigms. In a dose-dependent manner, intraplantar injection of the SRIF receptor antagonist cyclo-somatostatin (c-SOM) results in nociceptive behaviors in normal animals and enhancement of nociceptive behaviors in formalin-injected animals, and these actions can be blocked when c-SOM is coapplied with three different SRIF agonists. Furthermore, intraplantar injection of SRIF antiserum also results in nociceptive behaviors. Electrophysiological recordings using an in vitro glabrous skin-nerve preparation show increased nociceptor activity in response to c-SOM, and this increase is blocked by the same three SRIF agonists. Parallel behavioral and electrophysiological studies using the opioid antagonist naloxone demonstrate that endogenous opioids do not maintain a tonic inhibitory control over peripheral nociceptors, nor does opioid receptor antagonism influence peripheral SRIF effects on nociceptors. These findings demonstrate that SRIF receptors maintain a tonic inhibitory control over peripheral nociceptors, and this may contribute to mechanisms that control the excitability of these terminals.
Sympathoexcitatory reticulospinal neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) are oxygen detectors excited by hypoxia to globally elevate regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). The projection, which accounts for &gt;50% of hypoxic cerebral vasodilation, relays through the medullary vasodilator area (MCVA). However, there are no direct cortical projections from the RVLM/MCVA, suggesting a relay that diffusely innervates cortex and possibly originates in thalamic nuclei. Systematic mapping by electrical microstimulation of the thalamus and subthalamus revealed that elevations in rCBF were elicited only from a limited area, which encompassed medial pole of zona incerta, Forel's field, and prerubral zone. Stimulation (10 sec train) at an active site increased rCBF by 25 +/- 6%. Excitation of local neurons with kainic acid mimicked effects of electrical stimulation by increasing rCBF. Stimulation of the subthalamic cerebrovasodilator area (SVA) with single pulses (0.5 msec; 80 microA) triggered cortical EEG burst-CBF wave complexes with latency 24 +/- 5 msec, which were similar in shape to complexes evoked from the MCVA. Selective bilateral lesioning of the SVA neurons (ibotenic acid, 2 microg, 200 nl) blocked the vasodilation elicited from the MCVA and attenuated hypoxic cerebrovasodilation by 52 +/- 12% (p &lt; 0.05), whereas hypercarbic vasodilation remained preserved. Lesioning of the vasodilator site in the basal forebrain failed to modify SVA-evoked rCBF increase. We conclude that (1) excitation of intrinsic neurons of functionally restricted region of subthalamus elevates rCBF, (2) these neurons relay signals from the MCVA, which elevate rCBF in response to hypoxia, and (3) the SVA is a functionally important site conveying vasodilator signal from the medulla to the telencephalon.
Glutamate is considered to be the primary neurotransmitter in the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT), which delivers photic information from the retina to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the locus of the mammalian circadian pacemaker. However, substance P (SP) also has been suggested to play a role in retinohypothalamic transmission. In this study, we sought evidence that SP from the RHT contributes to photic resetting of the circadian pacemaker and further explored the possible interaction of SP with glutamate in this process. In rat hypothalamic slices cut parasagittally, electrical stimulation of the optic nerve in early and late subjective night produced a phase delay (2.4 +/- 0.5 hr; mean +/- SEM) and advance (2.6 +/- 0.3 hr) of the circadian rhythm of SCN neuronal firing activity, respectively. The SP antagonist L-703,606 (10 microm) applied to the slices during the nerve stimulation completely blocked the phase shifts. Likewise, a cocktail of NMDA (2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, 50 microm) and non-NMDA (6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, 10 microm) antagonists completely blocked the shifts. Exogenous application of SP (1 microm) or glutamate (100 microm) to the slices in early subjective night produced a phase delay ( approximately 3 hr) of the circadian firing activity rhythm of SCN neurons. Coapplication of the NMDA and non-NMDA antagonist cocktail (as well as L-703,606) resulted in a complete blockade of the SP-induced phase delay, whereas L-703,606 (10 microm) had no effect on the glutamate-induced delay. These results suggest that SP, as well as glutamate, has a critical role in photic resetting. Furthermore, the results suggest that the two agonists act in series, SP working upstream of glutamate.
Interstitial branching is an important mechanism for target innervation in the developing CNS. A previous study of cortical neurons in vitro showed that the terminal growth cone pauses and enlarges in regions from which interstitial axon branches later develop (Szebenyi et al., 1998). In the present study, we investigated how target-derived signals affect the morphology and behaviors of growth cones leading to development of axon branches. We used bath and local application of a target-derived growth factor, FGF-2, on embryonic pyramidal neurons from the sensorimotor cortex and used time-lapse digital imaging to monitor effects of FGF-2 on axon branching. Observations of developing neurons over periods of several days showed that bath-applied FGF-2 significantly increased growth cone size and slowed growth cone advance, leading to a threefold increase in axon branching. FGF-2 also had acute effects on growth cone morphology, promoting rapid growth of filopodia within minutes. Application of FGF-2-coated beads promoted local axon branching in close proximity to the beads. Branching was more likely to occur when the FGF-2 bead was on or near the growth cone, suggesting that distal regions of the axon are more responsive to FGF-2 than other regions of the axon shaft. Together, these results show that interstitial axon branches can be induced locally through the action of a target-derived growth factor that preferentially exerts effects on the growth cone. We suggest that, in target regions, growth factors such as FGF-2 and other branching factors may induce formation of collateral axon branches by enhancing the pausing and enlargement of primary growth cones that determine future branch points.
Mesencephalic precursor cells may one day provide dopaminergic neurons for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. However, the generation of dopaminergic neurons from mesencephalic precursors has been difficult to follow, partly because an appropriate means for recognizing mesencephalic ventricular zone precursors has not been available. To visualize and isolate mesencephalic precursor cells from a mixed population, we used transgenic mice and rats carrying green fluorescent protein (GFP) cDNA under the control of the nestin enhancer. nestin-driven GFP was detected in the mesencephalic ventricular zone, and it colocalized with specific markers for neural precursor cells. In addition, data from flow-cytometry indicated that Prominin/CD133, a cell-surface marker for ventricular zone cells, was expressed specifically in these GFP-positive (GFP(+)) cells. After sorting by fluorescence-activated cell sorting, the GFP(+) cells proliferated in vitro and expressed precursor cell markers but not neuronal markers. Using clonogenic sphere formation assays, we showed that this sorted population was enriched in multipotent precursor cells that could differentiate into both neurons and glia. Importantly, many neurons generated from nestin-GFP-sorted mesencephalic precursors developed a dopaminergic phenotype in vitro. Finally, nestin-GFP(+) cells were transplanted into the striatum of a rat model of Parkinson's disease. Bromodeoxyuridine-tyrosine hydroxylase double-labeling revealed that the transplanted cells generated new dopaminergic neurons within the host striatum. The implanted cells were able to restore dopaminergic function in the host striatum, as assessed by a behavioral measure: recovery from amphetamine-induced rotation. Together, these findings indicate that precursor cells harvested from the embryonic ventral mesencephalon can generate dopaminergic neurons able to restore function to the chemically denervated adult striatum.
Synaptogenesis at the neuromuscular junction requires agrin-induced stable localization of acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) at the endplate. The effects of agrin are transduced by the muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase (MuSK). This study provides evidence that Src-class protein tyrosine kinases mediate the effects of agrin-activated MuSK to regulate clustering and anchoring of AChRs in skeletal muscle. MuSK was complexed with both Src and Fyn in the C2 mouse muscle cell line. These associations were enhanced by agrin and by increasing protein tyrosine phosphorylation with pervanadate. Coupling between MuSK and the Src-class kinases in vivo appeared to be caused by a phosphotyrosine-SH2 domain interaction because binding of MuSK to the SH2 domains of Fyn and Src in vitro was specific, enhanced by phosphorylation, and dependent on MuSK autophosphorylation. In addition, Src and Fyn phosphorylated MuSK. AChR phosphorylation, stimulated by agrin or pervanadate, was inhibited by blocking Src-class kinases with PP1. Furthermore, agrin-induced clustering and cytoskeletal anchoring of AChRs was dependent on Src-family kinases. These data support the conclusion that Fyn and Src act downstream of MuSK to regulate the stable localization of AChRs at the neuromuscular endplate during agrin-induced synaptogenesis.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors are expressed abundantly in the spinal cord and have been shown to play important roles in the modulation of nociceptive transmission and plasticity. Most previous studies have focused on the group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR1 and mGluR5) and activation of phospholipase C signaling by these receptors in modulating nociception. Recently, it was shown that the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs)/mitogen-activated protein kinases are activated in spinal cord dorsal horn neurons in response to stimulation of nociceptors and that ERK signaling is involved in nociceptive plasticity. In the present studies, we sought to test the hypothesis that group I mGluRs modulate nociceptive transmission or plasticity via modulation of ERK signaling in dorsal horn neurons. We show that activation of mGluR1 and mGluR5 leads to activation of ERK1 and ERK2 in the spinal cord. Furthermore, we find that inflammation-evoked ERK activation, which is required for nociceptive plasticity, is downstream of mGluR1 and mGluR5. Finally, we show colocalization of group I mGluRs with activated ERK in dorsal horn neurons. These results show that mGluR1 and mGluR5 are activated in dorsal horn neurons in response to peripheral inflammation and that activation of these group I mGluRs leads to activation of ERK1 and ERK2, resulting in enhanced pain sensitivity.
An instrument for assessing nurses' perceived self-efficacy in implementing a variety of neuroscience nursing tasks was developed. Self-efficacy theory served as the guiding framework. From 1988 to 1998, the instrument was used to assess changes in the perceived self-efficacy of 54 nurses who attended a neuroscience nurse-internship program. Self-efficacy was assessed during clinical orientation, prior to the beginning of the program, and at the end of the program. The results showed that the nurses' confidence in performing a variety of neuroscience nursing skills increased during the 6- to 10-month program. The instrument was also useful in helping program directors identify areas in which nurses could benefit most from the program and refine the program to meet the educational needs of the nurses.

One of the central tenets in neuroscience has been that the protein constituents of distal compartments of the neuron (e.g., the axon and nerve terminal) are synthesized in the nerve cell body and are subsequently transported to their ultimate sites of function. In contrast to this postulate, we have established previously that a heterogeneous population of mRNAs and biologically active polyribosomes exist in the giant axon and presynaptic nerve terminals of the photoreceptor neurons in squid. We report that these mRNA populations contain mRNAs for nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins to include: cytochrome oxidase subunit 17, propionyl-CoA carboxylase (EC 6.4.1.3), dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (EC 1.8.1.4), and coenzyme Q subunit 7. The mRNA for heat shock protein 70, a chaperone protein known to be involved in the import of proteins into mitochondria, has also been identified. Electrophoretic gel analysis of newly synthesized proteins in the synaptosomal fraction isolated from the squid optic lobe revealed that the large presynaptic terminals of the photoreceptor neuron contain a cytoplasmic protein synthetic system. Importantly, a significant amount of the cycloheximide resistant proteins locally synthesized in the terminal becomes associated with mitochondria. PCR analysis of RNA from synaptosomal polysomes establishes that COX17 and CoQ7 mRNAs are being actively translated. Taken together, these findings indicate that proteins required for the maintenance of mitochondrial function are synthesized locally in the presynaptic nerve terminal, and call attention to the intimacy of the relationship between the terminal and its energy generating system. J. Neurosci. Res. 64:447-453, 2001. Published 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
We investigated the blur tolerance of human observers for stimuli modulated along the isoluminant red-green, the isoluminant yellow-blue, and the luminance (black-white) direction in color space. We report the following results: (i) Blur difference thresholds for red-green and luminance stimuli (of equal cone contrast) are very similar and as low as 0.5 min of visual angle; for yellow-blue the lowest blur thresholds are much higher (1.5 min of visual angle). (ii) The smallest blur thresholds are found for slightly blurred square waves (reference blur of 1 arc min) and not for sharp edges. (iii) Blur thresholds for red-green and black-white follow a Weber law for reference (pedestal) blurs greater than the optimum blur. (iv) Using the model proposed by Watt and Morgan [Vision Res. 24, 1387 (1984)] we estimated the internal blur of the visual system for the black-white and the red-green color directions and arrived at the following estimates: 1.2 arc min for black-white stimuli at 10% contrast and 0.9 arc min for red-green stimuli at 10% cone contrast. Blur tolerance for yellow-blue is independent of external blur and cannot be predicted by the model. (v) The contrast dependence of blur sensitivity is similar for red-green and luminance modulations (slopes of -0.15 and -0.16 in log-log coordinates, respectively) and slightly stronger for yellow-blue (slope = -0.75). Blur discrimination thresholds are not predicted by the contrast sensitivity function of the visual system. Our findings are useful for predicting blur tolerance for complex images and provide a spatial frequency cutoff point when Gaussian low-pass filters are used for noise removal in colored images. They are also useful as a baseline for the study of visual disorders such as amblyopia.
Chronic-constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve causes mechanical and heat hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia in the plantar surface of the hindpaw. The underlying mechanism thought to account for these phenomena include central sensitization induced by peripheral nerve injury, ie, the increase in neuronal activity of spinal dorsal horn neurons. As a marker of neuronal activation of the central nervous system, Fos expression has been used widely to monitor the change in neuronal activity evoked by peripheral input. In this study, we examined the antinociceptive effect of electroacupuncture (EA) on pain behavior and noxious stimulus-evoked Fos expression in dorsal horn neurons of the spinal cord in CCI rats 14 days after injury. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (180 to 200 g) received loose ligation of the left sciatic nerve. Heat and mechanical hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia were examined by the plantar foot test, the pin-prick test, and the von Frey test before and after the EA treatment (100 Hz, 0.3 millisecond, 3 or 1 mA, 20 minutes) into the Zusanli point (S36). When EA stimulation to the Zusanli point was applied, the mechanical and heat hyperalgesia were significantly suppressed; however, mechanical allodynia was not affected. The EA stimulation to nonacupuncture point did not show any significant effect. Next, pinch stimulation was applied to the plantar surface of the operated hindpaw of the CCI rats for 10 minutes, and the stimulus-evoked Fos expression in dorsal horn neurons in L4-L6 spinal cord levels was then examined by using immunohistochemistry. The number of noxious stimulus-evoked Fos-labeled neurons in both the superficial and deep laminae of the dorsal horn in the CCI rats was increased significantly compared with those in sham-operated rats, suggesting an increased excitability of dorsal horn neurons to noxious stimuli. Concurrent EA treatment to the Zusanli point with the pinch stimulus suppressed the increase in the number of Fos-labeled cells in the spinal dorsal horn in the CCI rats. The present results show that EA treatment has antinociceptive effects on both pain behavior and neuronal activation of the spinal dorsal horn neurons in CCI rats.
Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is characterized by an accumulation of unesterified cholesterol in the endosomal/lysosomal (E/L) system, resulting in progressive neurodegeneration and death during early childhood. To investigate the cellular pathomechanism of nervous system involvement in NPC, continuous neural cell lines are desirable. In this study, we obtained neuronal and Schwann cell cultures and established spontaneously immortalized Schwann cell lines from dorsal root ganglia and peripheral nerves of NPC model mouse (spm/spm). One of the cell lines, designated SPMS9, had distinct Schwann cell phenotypes and was maintained over 10 months without phenotypic alterations. The level of Npc1 mRNA was markedly decreased, and NPC1 protein was not detectable in SPMS9 cells. These cells contained intracytoplasmic granules positive for filipin cholesterol staining and immunoreactive for GM2 ganglioside. Electron-microscopically, intracytoplasmic polymorphous membranous inclusions and vacuoles were demonstrated in SPMS9 cells. The treatment with an inhibitor of ceramide-specific glucosyltransferase, N-butyldeoxynojirimysin (NB-DNJ) markedly reduced the intracytoplasmic granular immunofluorescence for GM2 ganglioside in SPMS9 cells, whereas the amount of filipin-positive granules remained unchanged. The SPMS9 cells retained vesicular fluorescence of cationic dye acriflavine 16-24 hours after loading, indicating the defect of transmembrane efflux pump activity of NPC1 in the E/L compartment in these cells. These immortalized Schwann cells can be useful in studies on the nervous system lesions in NPC.
CA1 pyramidal cells were recorded in rat hippocampal slices. In the presence of carbonic anhydrase activators, comicrostimulation of cholinergic inputs from stratum oriens and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic inputs from stratum pyramidale at low intensities switched the hyperpolarizing GABA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials to depolarizing responses. In the absence of the activators, however, the same stimuli were insufficient to trigger the synaptic switch. This synaptic switch changed the function of the GABAergic synapses from excitation filter to amplifier and was prevented by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, indicating a dependence on HCO. Intralateral ventricular administration of these same carbonic anhydrase activators caused the rats to exhibit superior learning of the Morris water maze task, suggesting that the GABAergic synaptic switch is critical for gating the synaptic plasticity that underlies spatial memory formation. Increased carbonic anhydrase activity might, therefore, also enhance perception, processing, and storing of temporally associated relevant signals and represents an important therapeutic target in learning and memory pharmacology.
1. We held infants (aged 4-12 months) over a treadmill to study how they co-ordinated the two limbs during stepping. We disturbed one limb during the stance or swing phase and recorded the responses (muscle activity and movement) from both lower limbs. Manual disturbances were applied during the stance phase by sliding the foot backward, forcing the limb into the swing phase. Disturbances were also applied in the swing phase by manually extending the hip, interfering with the forward motion of the limb. Additional disturbances were applied to see if both limbs could perform the stance and swing phase synchronously. 2. When the limb was forced to initiate the swing phase on one side, the contralateral limb either prolonged its contact with the ground or quickly established ground contact. When the forward motion of the limb was interrupted in the swing phase, the swing phase was prolonged on the disturbed side and the stance phase prolonged on the contralateral side. In most cases, one leg maintained ground contact. Moreover, it was easy to elicit bilateral, simultaneous stance phase, whereas it was difficult to elicit simultaneous swing phase. In cases where swing phase in the two limbs was initiated close in time, rhythmic alternate stepping was immediately restored in the following step. 3. We conclude that human infants can generate co-ordinated motor responses bilaterally in response to unilateral perturbations, well before the onset of independent walking.
1. Voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channels (VSCCs) are often heteromultimeric complexes. The VSCC subtype specifically expressed by skeletal muscle has long been known to contain a gamma subunit, gamma(1), that is only expressed in this tissue. Recent work, initiated by the identification of the mutation present in the stargazer mouse, has led to the identification of a series of novel potential Ca(2+) channel gamma subunits expressed in the CNS. 2. Based on bioinformatic techniques we identified and cloned the human gamma(2), gamma(3) and gamma(4) subunits. 3. TaqMan analysis was used to quantitatively characterise the mRNA expression patterns of all the gamma subunits. All three subunits were extensively expressed in adult brain with overlapping but subunit-specific distributions. gamma(2) and gamma(3) were almost entirely restricted to the brain, but gamma(4) expression was seen in a broad range of peripheral tissues. 4. Using a myc epitope the gamma(2) subunit was tagged both intracellularly at the C-terminus and on a predicted extracellular site between the first and second transmembrane domains. The cellular distribution was then examined immunocytochemically, which indicated that a substantial proportion of the cellular pool of the gamma(2) subunit was present on the plasma membrane and provided initial evidence for the predicted transmembrane topology of the gamma subunits. 5. Using co-transfection techniques we investigated the functional effects of each of the gamma subunits on the biophysics of the T-type VSCC encoded by the alpha(1I) subunit. This revealed a substantially slowed rate of deactivation in the presence of gamma(2). In contrast, there was no significant corresponding effect of either gamma(3) or gamma(4) on alpha(1I) subunit-mediated currents.
Flumazenil, a benzodiazepine (BZ) receptor antagonist, and naloxone, a non-selective mu-receptor antagonist, were used to investigate whether the anxiolytic action of LY354740 [1S,2S,5R,6S-2-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-2,6-dicarboxylate monohydrate], a Group II metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, was mediated through the benzodiazepine binding site on the GABA(A) receptor and opioid pathways. LY354740 (1.0-10.0 mg/kg i.p.) induced dose-dependent anxiolytic-like effects in the rat elevated plus-maze. The anxiolytic-like effects of LY354740 (10.0 mg/kg) and the benzodiazepine receptor agonist, chlordiazepoxide (CDP, 5.0 mg/kg i.p.) were blocked by flumazenil (15.0 mg/kg i.p.). By contrast, naloxone (10.0 mg/kg i.p.) failed to affect the anxiolytic-like effects of either LY354740 or CDP. The behaviour of animals treated with flumazenil or naloxone alone did not significantly differ from that of animals treated with vehicle alone. This study suggests that the anxiolytic-like effects of LY354740 on the elevated plus-maze may be directly or indirectly mediated by the benzodiazepine binding site on the GABA(A) receptor complex.
Professor Emeritus Fumio Gotoh began and continues his remarkable career in medicine at Keio University. Since his graduation from medical school there in 1951, Dr. Gotoh has devoted himself to neurology, especially in the enigmatic field of stroke science. He is most renown for his groundbreaking research and leadership in the study of cerebral blood flow and metabolism. Beginning with his doctoral thesis paper in 1959 entitled &quot;Effects of blood pressure on cerebral circulation,&quot; our article briefly delineates how Prof. Gotoh has paved the path for current and future discoveries in modern medicine. Although wholly difficult to sum up Dr. Gotoh's extensive career in such a short article, we have attempted to chronologically list and furthermore to describe his numerous works. Herein we describe his expansion to the international arena with his contributions at Wayne State University as well as his novel cerebral blood gas monitoring techniques now used in modified fashion throughout the world. From his CO2-based investigations in animals to his study of the autonomic nervous system's role in human cerebrovascular control, we remark on Dr. Gotoh's accomplishments without the use of functional imaging. Yet despite the basic science theme of his research, he has always kept them clinically correlated to entities such as Cheyne-Stokes phenomenon and Shy-Drager syndrome. Prof. Gotoh has been asked to head some of the most influential stroke societies and was the second president of the International Stroke Society. In conjunction with leading authorities, he developed a quantifiable, evidence-based stroke scale which was introduced in the International Journal of Stroke in 2001. Today despite his retirement, Dr. Gotoh continues his work in cerebral blood flow and metabolism.
Using an ozonated water-dispensing machine for sterilization of hands (Mediaqua MA-III; Core Medical Co., Ltd, Tokyo, Japan), we investigated the effectiveness of ozonated water as a disinfectant for hand washing before surgery. The effectiveness of this new hand-washing method, using 4 ppm of ozonated water, which is expected to have a short-term bactericidal effect, and 0.2% benzalkonium chloride/83% ethanol solution (Welpas), which is expected to have a long-term bactericidal effect, was compared with that of the conventional hand-washing method (Frbringer's method using a scrubbing agent containing povidone-iodine). The results showed no significant differences in the numbers of live bacteria and exponential reduction rates in live bacteria. Thus, this new method for hand washing using ozonated water is an effective method for sterilization of the hands before surgery.
Antisocial personality disorder is characterized by triats like a failure to conform to social norms, impulsivity, hostility, irritability and aggressiveness, recklessness, irresponsibility, criminality, a lack of guilt or remorse, and deceitfulness. A large number of investigations revealed that there is evidence for a neurobiological underpinning of antisocial behavior. The precise nature and causal aspects of the relationship between neurobiological abnormalities and antisocial behavior is still unknown. There is, however, some evidence that some antisocial patients are able to influence their neurobiological functions, which are related to sensation seeking, aggressiveness, impulsivity, criminality and a lack of fear (associated with an inability to learn from experiences). The author hypothesizes that a reduction of antisocial behavior/attitude, may consequently result in normalization of neurobiological functions, which are linked to specific attitudes and behavioral dimensions.
Evidence from both clinical and experimental studies demonstrates that mild hypothermia prevents encephalopathy and brain edema in acute liver failure (ALF). As part of a series of studies to elucidate the mechanism(s) involved in this protective effect, groups of rats with ALF resulting from hepatic devascularization were maintained at either 37 degrees C (normothermic) or 35 C (hypothermic), and neurological status was monitored in relation to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of ammonia and lactate. CSF was removed via implanted cisterna magna catheters. Mild hypothermia resulted in a delay in onset of encephalopathy and prevention of brain edema, CSF concentrations of ammonia and lactate were concomitantly decreased. Blood ammonia concentrations, on the other hand, were not affected by hypothermia in ALF rats. These findings suggest that brain edema and encephalopathy in ALF are the consequence of ammonia-induced impairment of brain energy metabolism and open the way for magnetic resonance spectroscopic monitoring of cerebral function in ALF. Mild hypothermia could be beneficial in the prevention of severe encephalopathy and brain edema in patients with ALF awaiting liver transplantation.
Hepatic Encephalopathy (HE) is a serious neuropsychiatric condition of both acute and chronic liver failure. Acute liver failure is characterized by rapid evolution of HE and by brain edema. Portal-Systemic encephalopathy (PSE) is particularly prevalent following treatment of portal hypertension or ascites by the TIPS procedure. Available evidence currently suggests that neurotransmission changes rather than brain energy failure are the primary cause of HE. Recent studies both in autopsied brain tissue from HE patients as well as in experimental animal models of HE reveal that liver failure results in altered expression of several genes coding for proteins having key roles in the control of neuronal excitability. Such alterations include decreased expression of the glutamate transporter GLT-1, and increased expression of monoamine oxidase (MAO-A isoform), the &quot;peripheral-type&quot; benzodiazepine receptor (PTBR) as well as constitutive neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). Such changes result in altered protein expression and in increased extracellular brain glutamate, increased degradation of monoamine neurotransmitters, increased synthesis of neurosteroids with inhibitory properties, and increased production of nitric oxide (respectively) in brain in chronic liver failure. In the case of GLT-1, PTBR, and nNOS, alterations in expression result from exposure to ammonia and/or manganese, two neurotoxic agents shown previously to be increased in brain in liver failure.
Abstract It is well known that individuals who are positive for particular HLA class II alleles show a high risk of developing autoimmune diseases. HLA class II molecules expressed on antigen-presenting cells present antigenic peptides to CD4(+) T cells. Their extensive polymorphism affects the structures of peptides bound to HLA class II molecules to create individual differences in immune responses to antigenic peptides. In order to gain a better understanding of mechanisms of the association between HLA class II alleles and susceptibility to autoimmune diseases, it is important to identify self-peptides presented by disease-susceptible HLA class II molecules and triggering disease-causative T cells. Many of the autoimmune diseases are observed in all ethnic groups, whereas the incidence of diseases, clinical manifestations and disease-susceptible HLA class II alleles are different among various ethnic groups for some autoimmune diseases. These phenomena suggest that differences in autoimmune self-peptide(s) in the context of disease-susceptible HLA class II molecules may cause these differences. Therefore, comparisons among disease-susceptible HLA class II alleles, autoantigenic peptides, and clinical manifestations of autoimmune diseases in different ethnic groups would be helpful in elucidating the pathogenesis of the diseases. In this review, we describe our recent findings on (1) the uniqueness of both clinical manifestations and the HLA-linked genetic background of Asian-type (opticospinal form) multiple sclerosis, (2) the characteristics of glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 (GAD65) or 2-glycoprotein I (2-GPI) autoreactive T cells in Japanese patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) or anti-2-GPI antibody-associated autoimmunity, respectively, and (3) the generation of an efficient delivery system of peptides to the HLA class II-restricted antigen presentation path-way by utilizing a class II-associated invariant chain peptide (CLIP)-substituted invariant chain, which may be applicable to an evaluation of the &quot;molecular mimicry hypothesis&quot; for the activation of autoreactive T cells.
Striatal and cortical neurons containing NADPH-diaphorase [NADPH-d(+)] are highly vulnerable to excitotoxicity that is induced by activation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)- or kainate-sensitive glutamate receptors. This has been attributed to Ca2+ entry through AMPA/kainate receptors in NADPH-d(+) neurons. In this study, we applied single cell RT-PCR technique to test the hypothesis that differences in levels and processing of the GluR2 subunit would contribute to the selective vulnerability of NADPH-d(+) neurons to AMPA. The nested PCR specific for GluR1-GluR4 showed that rat striatal NADPH-d(+) neurons expressed twice as much GluR1 mRNA as NADPH-d(-) neurons did. The percentage of RNA editing at the Q/R site of GluR2 was 46% in NADPH-d(+) neurons and 92% in NADPH-d(-) neurons. These results suggest that the unedited expression of GluR2 and the reduced ratio of GluR2/GluR1 render NADPH-d(+) neurons highly sensitive to Ca2+-mediated AMPA neurotoxicity. In support of this, most NADPH-d(+) neurons exposed to 100 microM AMPA showed Co2+ uptake and survived AMPA challenge only in the absence of extracellular Ca2+.
Perry Molinoff recognizes the distinctions between basic and applied science, between academic and industrial research, and between the preclinical and clinical realities of drug development. But he generally discusses these categories in fluid, practical terms, having throughout his career crossed the lines of distinction that have sometimes been rather heavily drawn among pharmacologists. As a third-year medical student at Harvard, he decided &quot;to take a year off&quot; to conduct laboratory research. After receiving his MD and pursuing further clinical and postdoctoral work, he enjoyed an academic career that included fourteen years as the A.N. Richards Professor and Chair of Pharmacology at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. He has just completed six years as Vice President of Neuroscience and Genitourinary Drug Discovery for Bristol-Myers Squibb and will soon return to teaching, in the Departments of Psychiatry and Pharmacology at Yale University. Referring to himself as either pharmacologist or neuroscientist, depending on context, he has made fundamental discoveries in receptor biology, has overseen the discovery and development of drugs and their subsequent clinical trials, and has mentored a host of pharmacologists and neuroscientists who themselves have established careers in industry and academia. The pursuit of discovery as its own reward emerges as a theme that has marked his professional life (and is perhaps reflected also in the images displayed in his office of the Himalayan mountains, photographed by Molinoff himself from the Everest base camp last year).
An emerging body of evidence from in vitro studies and in vivo animal models supports a pathogenic role of antibodies in the development of peripheral neuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS). Although the assessment of motor and sensory nerve fiber function is of clinical importance, it is seldom applied experimentally. We describe the application of an electrophysiologic method for the evaluation of motor and sensory nerve fiber function using an experimental model of MGUS neuropathy. Supramaximal stimulation of the tibial nerve elicited an early motor response (M-wave, 1.7 +/- 0.1 ms, n = 10) and a late sensory (H-reflex, 7.8 +/- 0.1 ms, n = 10) response that was recorded from the hind foot of anesthetized rats. Intraneural injection of serum antibodies from a MGUS patient with sensorimotor polyneuropathy, but not from an age-matched control subject, produced a marked attenuation of the H-reflex (P &lt; 0.01, n = 10) without affecting the M-wave. Light and electron microscopy of affected nerve showed myelinoaxonal degeneration with sparing of the smaller unmyelinated nerve fibers. The combined electrophysiologic and morphologic findings presented in this study are consistent with a selective sensory conduction deficit in MGUS neuropathy. Selective injury of afferent nerve fibers by this patient's serum antibodies may result from reactivity to neural antigens uniquely expressed by sensory neurons.
Cardiotrophin-1 (CT-1) has potent survival-promoting effects on motor neurons in vitro and in vivo and may be effective in treating motor neuron diseases (MND). We investigated the effects of CT-1 treatment in wobbler mouse MND. Wobbler mice were randomly assigned to receive subcutaneously injected CT-1 (1 mg/kg, n = 18, in two experiments) or vehicle (n = 18, in two experiments) daily, 6 times/week for 4 weeks after clinical diagnosis at age 3 to 4 weeks. Cardiotrophin-1 treatment prevented deterioration in paw position and walking pattern abnormalities. Grip strength declined steadily in the vehicle group, whereas in the CT-1 group it declined at week 1 but increased thereafter to exceed baseline strength by 5% (P = 0.0002) at week 4. Running speed was faster with CT-1 (P = 0.007). Biceps muscle twitch tension, muscle weight, mean muscle fiber diameter, and intramuscular axonal sprouting were significantly greater with CT-1 treatment than with vehicle treatment. Histometry revealed a trend that indicated CT-1 modestly increased the number of immunoreactive motor neurons, as determined by both choline acetyltransferase and c-Ret antibodies, and reduced the number of phosphorylated neurofilament immunoreactive perikarya (P = 0.05). The number of large myelinated motor axons significantly increased with treatment (206 versus 113, P = 0.01). We conclude that CT-1 exerts myotrophic effects as well as neurotrophic effects in a mouse model of spontaneous MND, a finding that has potential therapeutic implications for human MND.
This work demonstrates that transgenic mice lacking both rod and cone photoreceptors (rd/rd cl) retain a pupillary light reflex (PLR) that does not rely on local iris photoreceptors. These data, combined with previous reports that rodless and coneless mice show circadian and pineal responses to light, suggest that multiple non-image-forming light responses use non-rod, non-cone ocular photoreceptors in mice. An action spectrum for the PLR in rd/rd cl mice demonstrates that over the range 420-625 nm, this response is driven by a single opsin/vitamin A-based photopigment with peak sensitivity around 479 nm (opsin photopigment/OP479). These data represent the first functional characterization of a non-rod, non-cone photoreceptive system in the mammalian CNS.
Making sense of microarray data is a complex process, in which the interpretation of findings will depend on the overall experimental design and judgement of the investigator performing the analysis. As a result, differences in tissue harvesting, microarray types, sample labelling and data analysis procedures make post hoc sharing of microarray data a great challenge. To ensure rapid and meaningful data exchange, we need to create some order out of the existing chaos. In these ground-breaking microarray standardization and data sharing efforts, NIH agencies should take a leading role
Sharing of microarray data has many advantages for the scientific and biomedical community, and should be advocated by neuroscience journals. The goals of sharing are manifold, and include improving analysis and confidence in results, and facilitating global comparisons between experiments, while at the same time, not penalizing those who share. The sharing of microarray data poses unique challenges relative to more generic data such as DNA sequences. These challenges are surmountable, and various sharing formats are possible. Centralized non-commercial databases are being developed to facilitate this process.
Computational models in cognitive neuroscience should ideally use biological properties and powerful computational principles to produce behavior consistent with psychological findings. Error-driven backpropagation is computationally powerful and has proven useful for modeling a range of psychological data but is not biologically plausible. Several approaches to implementing backpropagation in a biologically plausible fashion converge on the idea of using bidirectional activation propagation in interactive networks to convey error signals. This article demonstrates two main points about these error-driven interactive networks: (1) they generalize poorly due to attractor dynamics that interfere with the network's ability to produce novel combinatorial representations systematically in response to novel inputs, and (2) this generalization problem can be remedied by adding two widely used mechanistic principles, inhibitory competition and Hebbian learning, that can be independently motivated for a variety of biological, psychological, and computational reasons. Simulations using the Leabra algorithm, which combines the generalized recirculation (GeneRec), biologically plausible, error-driven learning algorithm with inhibitory competition and Hebbian learning, show that these mechanisms can result in good generalization in interactive networks. These results support the general conclusion that cognitive neuroscience models that incorporate the core mechanistic principles of interactivity, inhibitory competition, and error-driven and Hebbian learning satisfy a wider range of biological, psychological, and computational constraints than models employing a subset of these principles.

We previously reported that mice over-expressing the human amyloid precursor protein gene with the double Swedish mutation of familial Alzheimer's disease (mtAPP), which exhibit progressive deposition of amyloid beta-peptide in hippocampal and cortical brain regions, have an impaired ability to maintain a sustained glucocorticoid response to stress. Corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH), which initiates neuroendocrine responses to stress by activating the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, is expressed in brain regions prone to degeneration in Alzheimer's disease. We therefore tested the hypothesis that CRH can modify neuronal vulnerability to amyloid beta-peptide toxicity. In primary neuronal culture, CRH was protective against cell death caused by an amyloid-beta peptide, an effect that was blocked by a CRH receptor antagonist and by an inhibitor of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase. The increased resistance of CRH-treated neurons to amyloid toxicity was associated with stabilization of cellular calcium homeostasis. Moreover, CRH protected neurons against death caused by lipid peroxidation and the excitotoxic neurotransmitter glutamate. The level of mRNA encoding CRH was unchanged in mtAPP mouse brain, whereas the levels of mRNAs encoding glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors were subtly altered. Our results suggest that disturbances in HPA axis function can occur independently of alterations in CRH mRNA levels in Alzheimer's disease brain and further suggest an additional role for CRH in protecting neurons against cell death.
Mutations in presenilin-1 (PS1), the leading cause of early-onset, autosomal-dominant familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD), enhance calcium signaling mediated by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3). To elucidate the subcellular mechanisms underlying this enhancement, we used high resolution line-scanning confocal microscopy to image elementary calcium release events (&quot;puffs&quot;) in Xenopus oocytes expressing wild-type or mutant PS1. Here we report that mutant PS1-rendered puffs more sensitive to IP3 and increased both the magnitude and the rate of calcium release during each event. These effects were not attributable to quantitative changes in the levels of IP3 receptors or their distribution on the ER, but were instead associated with an abnormal elevation of ER calcium stores. Together, our results suggest that the effects of mutant PS1 on calcium signaling are manifested predominantly at the level of the regulation of calcium stores rather than via perturbations in the numbers or activity of IP3-activated calcium release channels.
Two gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) receptor chimeras were designed in order to elucidate the structural requirements for GABA(A) receptor desensitization and assembly. The (alpha1/gamma2) and (gamma2/alpha1) chimeric subunits representing the extracellular N-terminal domain of alpha1 or gamma2 and the remainder of the gamma2 or alpha1 subunits, respectively, were expressed with beta2 and beta2gamma2 in Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf-9) cells using the baculovirus expression system. The (alpha1/gamma2)beta2 and (alpha1/gamma2)beta2gamma2 but not the (gamma2/alpha1)beta2 and (gamma2/alpha1)beta2gamma2 subunit combinations formed functional receptor complexes as shown by whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and [3H]muscimol and [3H]flunitrazepam binding. Moreover, the surface immunofluorescence staining of Sf-9 cells expressing the (alpha1/gamma2)-containing receptors was pronounced, as opposed to the staining of the (gamma2/alpha1)-containing receptors, which was only slightly higher than background. To explain this, the (alpha1/gamma2) and (gamma2/alpha1) chimeras may act like alpha1 and gamma2 subunits, respectively, indicating that the extracellular N-terminal segment is important for assembly. However, the (alpha1/gamma2) chimeric subunit had characteristics different from the alpha1 subunit, since the (alpha1/gamma2) chimera gave rise to no desensitization after GABA stimulation in whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, which was independent of whether the chimera was expressed in combination with beta2 or beta2gamma2. Surprisingly, the (alpha1/gamma2)(gamma2/alpha1)beta2 subunit combination did desensitize, indicating that the C-terminal segment of the alpha1 subunit may be important for desensitization. Moreover, desensitization was observed for the (alpha1/gamma2)beta2gamma2 receptor with respect to the direct activation by pentobarbital. This suggests differences in the mechanism of channel activation for pentobarbital and GABA.
Total 5-HT binding sites and 5-HT(1A) receptor density was measured in brain regions of rats treated with imipramine (5 mg/kg body wt), desipramine (10 mg/kg body wt) and clomipramine (10 mg/kg body wt), for 40 days, using [3H]5-HT and [3H]8-OH-DPAT, respectively. It was observed that chronic exposure to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) results in significant downregulation of total [3H]5-HT binding sites in cortex (42-76%) and hippocampus (35-67%). The 5-HT(1A) receptor density was, however, decreased significantly (32-60%) only in cortex with all the three drugs. Interestingly, in hippocampus imipramine treatment increased the 5-HT(1A) receptor density (14%). The affinity of [3H]8-OH-DPAT was increased only with imipramine treatment both in cortex and hippocampus. The affinity of [3H]5-HT to 5-HT binding sites in cortex was increased with imipramine treatment and decreased with desipramine and clomipramine treatment. 5-HT sensitive adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity was significantly increased in cortex with imipramine (72%) and clomipramine (17%) treatment, whereas in hippocampus only imipramine treatment significantly increased AC activity (50%). In conclusion, chronic treatment with TCAs results in downregulation of cortical 5-HT(1A) receptors along with concomitant increase in 5-HT stimulated AC activity suggesting the involvement of cortical 5-HT(1A) receptors in the mechanism of action of TCAs.

Cytotoxic capacity of psychosine (galactosylsphingosine) was evaluated in comparison with C6-ceramide in cultured fibroblasts and the glia-derived MOCH-1 cells that have characteristics of myelinating cells (1). Psychosine caused cytotoxic cell death and DNA fragmentation at concentrations similar to C6-ceramide and MOCH-1 cells were substantially more sensitive to their cytotoxic effects than fibroblasts. In this system, pretreatment with GM1-ganglioside failed to protect the cells from the deleterious effects of these compounds. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that psychosine is the cytotoxic metabolite that causes apoptotic death of the oligodendrocyte in globoid cell leukodystrophy (Krabbe disease). They further suggest that the protective capacity of GM1-ganglioside is unlikely to be the explanation for the paradoxical improvement of the phenotype of globoid cell leukodystrophy in the mouse simultaneously deficient in two lysosomal beta-galactosidases, galactosylceramidase and GM1-ganglioside beta-galactosidase.
Uptake and release processes in cerebellar astrocytes and granule neurons (glutamatergic) for glutamate were investigated by the use of [3H]D-aspartate, a non-metabolizable glutamate analog. The effects of DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate (DL-TBOA) and L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (t-2,4-PDC) on uptake and release of [3H]D-aspartate were studied. Both compounds inhibited potently uptake of [3H]D-aspartate in neurons and astrocytes (IC50 values 10-100 microM), DL-TBOA being slightly more potent than t-2,4-PDC. Release of preloaded [3H]D-aspartate from neurons or astrocytes could be stimulated by addition of excess t-2,4-PDC whereas addition of DL-TBOA had no effect on [3H]D-aspartate efflux. Moreover, DL-TBOA inhibited significantly the depolarization-induced (55 mM KCI) release of preloaded [3H]D-aspartate in the neurons. The results reflect the fact that DL-TBOA is not transported by the glutamate carriers while t-2,4-PDC is a substrate which may heteroexchange with [3H]D-aspartate. It is suggested that DL-TBOA may be used to selectively inhibit depolarization coupled glutamate release mediated by reversal of the carriers.
Receptive fields are commonly used to describe spatial characteristics of sensory neuron responses. They can be extended to characterize temporal or dynamical aspects by mapping neural responses in dynamical state spaces. The state-space receptive field of a neuron is the probability distribution of the dynamical state of the stimulus-generating system conditioned upon the occurrence of a spike. We have computed state-space receptive fields for semicircular canal afferent neurons in the bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana). We recorded spike times during broad-band Gaussian noise rotational velocity stimuli, computed the frequency distribution of head states at spike times, and normalized these to obtain conditional pdfs for the state. These state-space receptive fields quantify what the brain can deduce about the dynamical state of the head when a single spike arrives from the periphery.
The pyloric sphincter (PS) controls gastric emptying and prevents the reflux of duodenal content into the stomach. Neuronal pathways and reflexes controlling the guinea-pig PS were physiologically investigated in isolated preparations. Simultaneous intracellular or extracellular and tension recordings from PS circular muscle with electrical and stretch stimulation were used. Electrical stimulation evoked an initial small contraction followed by a relaxation with a corresponding inhibitory junction potential (IJP) then a second large contraction with a corresponding excitatory junction potential (EJP). Hyoscine (1 micromol L-1) blocked the first contraction, and reduced the second contraction and EJP by 52.5% and 61%, respectively. These responses were further reduced by the NK2 antagonist, MEN10627 (1 micromol L-1), and the NK1 antagonist, SR140333 (1 micromol L-1). N-nitro-L-arginine (100 micro;mol L-1) and apamin (0.5 micromol L-1) blocked the relaxation and the IJP. Duodenal electrical stimulation evoked an EJP, whereas antral stimulation evoked an IJP followed by a small EJP. All were blocked by hexamethonium (100 micromol L-1). Duodenal stretch evoked tetrodotoxin-sensitive reflex contractions and membrane depolarization with action potentials in the PS. Thus, PS enteric motor neurones receive inputs from the duodenum and the stomach. There are stretch-sensitive ascending excitatory reflex pathways from the duodenum to the PS.

The effect of relative language proficiency on the spatial distribution and magnitude of BOLD signal change was evaluated by studying two groups of right-handed English-Mandarin bilingual participants with contrasting language proficiencies as they made semantic judgments with words and characters. Greater language proficiency corresponded to shorter response times and greater accuracy in the semantic judgment task. Within the left prefrontal and parietal regions, the change in BOLD signal was smaller in a participant's more proficient language. The least proficient performance was associated with right, in addition to left, inferior frontal activation. The results highlight the importance of taking into consideration nature of task and relative language proficiency when drawing inferences from functional imaging studies of bilinguals.
Unexpected auditory events initiate a complex set of event-related potentials (ERPs) that vary in their latency and anatomical localization. Such &quot;mismatch&quot; responses include active responses to the omission of an expected event or the omission of elements in expected stimulus composites. Here we describe intracranial recordings of middle-latency ERPs elicited by the omission of an auditory event. We first presented a sequence of tones at regular temporal intervals and the tone was omitted 20% of the time. In a second condition, we presented a sequence of tone pairs and the second tone of the pair was omitted 20% of the time. These two conditions are complementary in that the single tone conformed to the expectancy in one condition, but violated the expectancy in the other. All patients demonstrated localized cortical responses to missing tones that were topographically similar to the responses evoked by actual tones. Responses to both actual and omitted tones were observed bilaterally in the vicinity of the temporal--parietal junction, where we also obtained midlatency ERPs to a variety of other auditory stimuli. Responses that appeared to be selective for the nonoccurrence of expected tones were also observed in a number of subjects. We interpret these effects in terms of processes associated with the comparison of sensory inputs to the contents of a short-term auditory memory. Such a system could automatically detect deviant auditory events, and provide input to higher-level, task-dependent cognitive processes.
Ina [(15)O] water PET experiment, 10 normal subjects retrieved words denoting actions (performed with or without an implement), and another 10 normal subjects retrieved words denoting the spatial relations between objects. Our objective was to test the following hypothesis: that the salient neural activity associated with naming actions and spatial relations occurs in left frontal operculum and left parietal association cortices, but not in the left inferotemporal cortices (IT) or in the right parietal association cortices. There were two control tasks, one requiring a decision on the orientation of unknown faces (a standard control task in our laboratory) and another requiring the retrieval of words denoting the concrete entities used in the action and spatial relations tasks. In accordance with the hypothesis, both naming actions and spatial relations (using the face orientation task as control activated the left frontal operculum; naming actions also activated the left parietal lobe. However, sectors of the left posterior IT were also engaged in both naming actions and spatial relations. When the naming of concrete entities was subtracted from the naming of actions performed with such entities, area MT in the posterior temporo-occipital region was activated bilaterally. On the other hand, when naming of the concrete entities was subtracted from the naming of spatial relations, left parietal activation was found, and when two tasks of naming spatial relations were contrasted to each other bilateral parietal activation was seen, right when abstract stimuli were used and left when concrete objects were used. The activity in posterior IT is thought to be related to object processing and possibly name retrieval at a subconscious level.
Respiratory complications play an important part in the morbidity and mortality of critically ill neurological patients. Assurance of airway patency is of primary concern in such patients. A plethora of airway maintenance techniques and devices have been recommended for securing and maintaining the airway. But, translaryngeal intubation through the oral route is the safest and most preferred technique. Proper assessment and adequate preparation of the patient before intubation helps to avert crises. In difficult intubation one may secure and maintain the airway by placing a laryngeal mask airway (LMA). The role of early tracheotomy in patients who require prolonged ventilatory support can not be overemphasized. However, the development of inert and softer endotracheal tubes with low pressure cuff has reduced the complications associated with endotracheal intubation. Finally and most importantly the best place to acquire competence in securing the airway is the operation theater not the intensive care unit.
Nosocomial infections are common among hospitalized patients, more so in intensive care units (ICU). They contribute significantly to morbidity, mortality and cost of care. Few studies address the issue of nosocomial infections in Neurology and neurosurgery ICUs, (NNICU) and data from other ICUs probably cannot be extrapolated to acutely ill neurologic patients. While the incidence of urinary tract infections and catheter related infections may be similar to those in other ICUs, comatose patients may be at a greater risk of nosocomial pneumonia. Certain nosocomial infections are peculiar to NNICU and appear to be associated with higher mortality and morbidity. A systematic approach to evaluation of new episodes of fever, informed use of empirical antibiotics in the context of prevailing drug sensitivities and developing a hospital infection control program are methods crucial to controlling and preventing nosocomial infections. Infections in the intensive care unit (ICU) have been under intense study over the last two decades. Nosocomial infections are common and to a large extent, preventable. However, an established infection by multidrug resistant bacteria is difficult to treat and results in a high mortality, morbidity and cost of care. This article addresses nosocomial infections in the context of the Neurology and Neurosurgery ICU (NNICU).
Traumatic occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) is a rare cause of cerebral infarct. We describe a case of MCA occlusion following blunt head trauma. The literature reports some 65 cases of MCA occlusion following non-penetrating blunt trauma to the head. Arterial dissection, cerebral vasospasm and thrombosis have been some of the theories discussed in the pathogenesis of this condition. We review the pathogenesis based on anatomy of the M1 segment.
Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) immunoreactivity (IR) was examined in the ependyma and choroid plexus (CP) of lateral and third ventricles in normal adult rats, as well as in response to transient forebrain ischemia (TFI) and exogenous FGF-2 delivered intraventricularly for several days by osmotic pump. Similar patterns of FGF-2 IR were seen in the CP epithelia of both lateral and third ventricles, as well as in ependymal cells of the third ventricle and along lateral sides of the lateral ventricles. Consistent staining was seen along the apical aspect of epithelial cells facing the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Cytoplasmic staining was seen in the absence of ischemia, and was dramatically reduced in response to TFI. FGF-2 treatment followed by TFI resulted in sustained FGF-2 IR within CP and ependymal cells, supporting the idea that these tissues are involved in synthesis and secretion of growth factors into the CSF. In contrast, along the medial sides of the lateral ventricles, adjacent to brain structures such as the hippocampus, consistent staining was seen along the basal aspect of the ependymal cells. We propose that at least some regions of ependyma may function to transport molecules such as FGF-2 directly into the underlying brain parenchyma.
We report two cases of central pain which receded completely after treatment of the inciting lesion. These cases highlight the intrinsic reversibility of central pain and the focal nature of central pain mechanisms.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was employed before and after a single dose of gabapentin to evaluate how this drug affects the activity of excitatory and inhibitory circuits within the motor cortex. Eleven healthy volunteers were studied. For the evaluation of cortical excitability, the following parameters were taken into account: resting and active motor threshold (RMT, AMT); cortical silent period (CSP); and intracortical inhibition (ICI) and facilitation (ICF). Peripheral silent period (PSP) was also detected. All parameters were measured before and 3 and 24 hours after 800 mg gabapentin was administered in a single oral dose. Gabapentin deepened the ICI and suppressed the ICF at 3 h but not at 5 h after dosing. We conclude that, in the normal human brain, gabapentin may act on intracortical excitability by shifting the balance towards less excitation and more inhibition.
We used event-related fMRI to assess whether brain responses to fearful versus neutral faces are modulated by spatial attention. Subjects performed a demanding matching task for pairs of stimuli at prespecified locations, in the presence of task-irrelevant stimuli at other locations. Faces or houses unpredictably appeared at the relevant or irrelevant locations, while the faces had either fearful or neutral expressions. Activation of fusiform gyri by faces was strongly affected by attentional condition, but the left amygdala response to fearful faces was not. Right fusiform activity was greater for fearful than neutral faces, independently of the attention effect on this region. These results reveal differential influences on face processing from attention and emotion, with the amygdala response to threat-related expressions unaffected by a manipulation of attention that strongly modulates the fusiform response to faces.
Methylation of genomic CpG residues is crucial for proper neuronal function. Rett syndrome, a common form of mental retardation, is associated with mutations in the gene encoding MeCP2, a methyl CpG binding protein linked to transcriptional repression. Gene knockouts of mouse Mecp2 have reproduced key aspects of the disease. A CNS-restricted knockout of Dnmt1, encoding the enzyme that maintains CpG methylation patterns, results in loss of mutant neurons and glia.
Transgenic mice developing beta-amyloid (Abeta) plaques are advancing experimental treatment strategies for Alzheimer's disease. The metal chelator, clioquinol, is reported by Cherny et al. (2001) to reduce Abeta plaques, presumably by chelation of Abeta-associated zinc and copper. This and other recent Abeta-modulating treatment approaches are discussed.
Trigeminal neuralgia is a well-recognized complication of multiple sclerosis. In patients with neuralgia not responding to medical treatment or transcutaneous ablative procedures, the pain can often be treated successfully by partial rhizotomy of the trigeminal sensory root. We have examined partial trigeminal rhizotomy specimens from six multiple sclerosis patients, aged between 34 and 77 years, with intractable trigeminal neuralgia lasting between 18 months and 11 years. The rhizotomy specimens were placed in buffered glutaraldehyde immediately after resection, and subsequently processed for electron microscopy. In all cases, this revealed demyelination in the proximal (CNS) part of the nerve root, with associated gliosis and variable inflammation. A consistent feature was the presence of clusters of juxtaposed axons without intervening glial processes. Similar juxtaposition of axons was previously observed in trigeminal neuralgia due to vascular compression of the nerve root. Experimental studies indicate that this arrangement of demyelinated axons is conducive to both spontaneous impulse activity and ephaptic spread of excitation. The demyelination and associated juxtaposition of axons may therefore account for key aspects of the pathogenesis of trigeminal neuralgia.
The pattern of deposition of amyloid beta protein (Abeta) was investigated, using the monoclonal antibodies BA27 and BC05 detecting the C-terminal species Abeta40 and Abeta42(43), in six cases of Alzheimer's disease (AD) due to deletions in exon 9 of PS-1 gene. These cases are characterized histologically by the presence of very large rounded plaques within the frontal cortex, known as 'cotton wool' plaques, composed of both Abeta40 and Abeta42(43) that are relatively free from neuritic changes and glial cell components, and usually devoid of a compact amyloid core. In the cerebellum the plaques are almost entirely of a compact type, again composed of Abeta40 and Abeta42(43), with only few diffuse Abeta42(43) containing plaques. The area fraction of Abeta40, and the ratio between Abeta40 and Abeta42(43), in frontal cortex was significantly higher than that seen in other cases of AD due to different PS-1 mutations, or in cases of sporadic AD, all of similar APO E genotype. The area fractions of Abeta42(43), however, did not significantly differ between these three groups. The unusual nature of the Abeta deposition in these cases may reflect the uniqueness of the mutation, which results in a failure to constitutively cleave the PS-1 holoprotein into its active form, and the effect this might have on APP trafficking and catabolism.
Ligand binding to neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptors Y1, Y2, Y4, and Y5 from guinea-pig was investigated using the two NPY-galanin hybrids M32 (galanin1-13-NPY25-36-amide) and M242 ([D-Trp(32)]M32). The affinity of M32 for Y1, Y2, and Y4 receptors was 13, 4, and 30nM, respectively, similar to that of NPY18-36 and NPY22-36 but 40-fold to 300-fold lower than the affinity of intact porcine NPY. M242 bound to the Y1, Y2, and Y4 receptors with 9-fold to 20-fold lower affinity than did M32. The affinities of M32 and M242 for Y5 were 400 and 800 nM, respectively. Thus, M32 seems to gain affinity relative to both of its constituent peptide portions although the NPY25-36 part may be sufficient for NPY-receptor recognition, especially at the Y2 receptor. This suggests that the galanin portion of M32 influences and/or stabilizes the conformation of the NPY portion, similar to the effect seen for the NPY portion of M32 in binding to galanin receptors.
ZD-7288 [4-(N-ethyl-N-phenylamino)-1,2-dimethyl-6-(methylamino) pyrimidinium chloride] and Cs(+) have been used to distinguish the currents contributing to inward rectification in neonatal rat facial motoneurones (FMs). ZD-7288 (0.1-10 microM) inhibited a current that reversed at -43.7+/-3.7 mV in artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) containing 3 mM K(+) (n=9), and displayed the time and voltage dependence of the hyperpolarisation-activated current, I(h). Depolarisation-activated transient (I(K(A))) and sustained outward currents were unaffected by ZD-7288. The IC(50) for block of I(h) by ZD-7288 was around 0.2 microM. Onset of inhibition was slow and no recovery was seen after washing in ZD-7288-free ACSF for up to 4 h. In the presence of ZD-7288, Ba(2+) and Rb(+) blocked an inwardly rectifying potassium (K(+)) current, confirming both the presence of I(K(IR)) and its insensitivity to ZD-7288. Cs(+) rapidly and reversibly blocked both I(h) and I(K(IR)). Inhibition of I(h) by ZD-7288 showed no use dependence, internally applied ZD-7288 also blocked I(h), and tail current analysis indicated inhibition to be voltage-independent. In the presence of internal guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (GTP-gamma-S) and after previous exposure to ZD-7288, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), but not noradrenaline, promoted a recovery of I(h) that was not observed if ZD-7288 was present throughout the recording period. This interaction between ZD-7288 and irreversible 5-HT-receptor activation may be related to the mechanism underlying ZD-7288-mediated block of these channels.
The present experiments investigated the ability of LY392098, a novel positive allosteric modulator of AMPA receptors, to potentiate AMPA receptor-mediated currents of neurons in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Co-application of LY392098 (0.03-10 microM) with AMPA (5 microM) enhanced current through AMPA receptor/channels in acutely isolated PFC neurons in a concentration-dependent manner. Estimates of the potency (EC(50)) and efficacy for LY392098 yielded an EC(50) value of 1.7+/-0.5 microM and a maximal potentiation of a 31.0+/-4.1-fold increase relative to current evoked by AMPA alone. The potentiation was activity-dependent, becoming evident only in the presence of agonist, and time-dependent, continuously developing over prolonged application times. An extracellular site of action was inferred by the absence of potentiation when the compound was applied intracellularly. LY392098 also increased the potency of agonist for the receptor by approximately sevenfold. Selectivity assays showed that the effects of LY392098 were exclusive for AMPA receptors, having no activity at N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in PFC neurons. Extracellular recordings from single PFC neurons in vivo showed that administration of LY392098 (0.001-10 microg/kg, i.v.) enhanced the probability of evoked action potential discharge in response to stimulation of glutamatergic afferents from the ventral subiculum of the hippocampal formation. Spontaneous activity of PFC neurons was also increased. Collectively, these results demonstrate that LY392098 is a highly potent, selective and centrally active positive modulator of native AMPA receptors.
The present study describes the pharmacological activity of two novel positive allosteric modulators at AMPA receptors in acutely isolated rat cerebellar Purkinje neurons and cultured rat hippocampal neurons. Currents elicited by application of glutamate (100 microM) to isolated cerebellar Purkinje neurons were potentiated by LY392098, LY404187, cyclothiazide, CX516 and aniracetam. The rank order of potency was LY404187&gt; LY392098&gt; cyclothiazide &gt; CX516&gt; aniracetam. LY392098 displayed a higher maximal efficacy than the other compounds examined. AMPA-activated inward currents in cultured rat hippocampal neurons were potentiated by LY392098, LY404187 and cyclothiazide in a reversible and concentration-dependent manner although considerable heterogeneity in the magnitude of response from cell to cell was observed. LY392098 was ineffective in potentiating AMPA receptor responses when dialyzed via the intracellular solution. The selectivity profiles of the two novel AMPA receptor potentiators were examined. LY392098 or LY404187 had minimal activity on NMDA receptor responses, on voltage-gated calcium channel currents in cultured hippocampal neurons and on GluR5 kainate receptor currents in acutely isolated rat dorsal root ganglion neurons.
Potentiation of ionotropic glutamate receptor activity by metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) is thought to modulate activity at glutamatergic synapses in the hippocampus. However, the precise pathway by which this modulation occurs is not well understood. The present study tests the hypothesis that mGluR1-mediated potentiation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) occurs via a phospholipase C (PLC)-initiated cascade. NMDAR functional activity was examined by whole-cell recording from Xenopus oocytes expressing recombinant NMDARs and mGluR1alpha. The mGluR1 agonist (1S,3R)-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD) significantly potentiated NMDA-elicited currents. mGluR1alpha-mediated potentiation of NMDA responses was eliminated by the PLC inhibitor U-73122. Buffering of intracellular Ca2+ by BAPTA-AM or depletion of intracellular Ca2+ by the Ca2+/ATPase inhibitor thapsigargin greatly reduced ACPD potentiation. ACPD potentiation was reduced by the specific protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor Ro-32-0432 and eliminated by the broad spectrum kinase inhibitor staurosporine. ACPD produced no further potentiation after potentiation of NMDARs by the PKC-activating phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA). Thus, Group I mGluRs potentiate NMDA responses via activation of PLC; at least part of the potentiation is due to rise in intracellular Ca2+ and stimulation of PKC. Cytochalasin D, which disrupts the actin cytoskeleton, blocked ACPD-elicited chloride currents and ACPD-induced potentiation of NMDAR currents, consistent with a role for cytoskeletal protein(s) in the signaling pathway. As Group I mGluRs are localized to the perisynaptic region in juxtaposition to NMDARs at glutamatergic synapses, mGluR-mediated potentiation of NMDAR activity may play a role in synaptic transmission and plasticity including LTP.
Using organotypic hippocampal slice cultures we have investigated the actions of Interleukin-1 (IL-1) in a number of injury paradigms. Low concentrations of IL-1 potentiated hypoxia-induced neurodegeneration whilst high concentrations had no effect. In contrast, higher concentrations of IL-1 were strongly neuroprotective in models of combined oxygen/glucose deprivation and N-methyl-D-aspartate toxicity, but no potentiation was observed at low IL-1 concentrations. Both protective and toxic effects of IL-1 were fully antagonized by IL-1 receptor antagonist. These data demonstrate that the effects of IL-1 on neuronal injury are complex, and may be directly related to the injury paradigm studied.
To examine how adrenergic receptors are regulated by experimental manipulation of sensory afferents, we performed immunohistochemical analysis on alpha1-, and beta1-adrenergic receptors in the brain of kittens. In normal development, these receptors were similarly expressed in both hemispheres of the occipital and frontal cortices. Notably, monocular deprivation during the sensitive period of ocular dominance plasticity significantly increased beta1-adrenergic receptor immunoreactivity in the visual cortex ipsilateral to the deprived eye. No increase in the intensity of the immunoreactivity for beta1-adrenergic receptors following monocular deprivation was found in the frontal and parietal regions of the cerebral cortex and subcortical structures, including the lateral geniculate nucleus and superior colliculus. Furthermore, such hemispheric change was not found in the alpha1-adrenergic receptor immunoreactivity following monocular deprivation. Comparisons of images, obtained by double staining for microtubule-associated protein-2 or glial fibrillary acidic protein, indicated that the increased immunoreactivity was localized on both apical dendrites of deep layer neurons and glial cells. These results indicate that the monocular deprivation during the sensitive period of ocular dominance plasticity modified beta1-adrenergic receptor immunoreactivity, including that in glial cells. Therefore, it was suggested that beta1-adrenergic receptors in the glial cells also play important roles in the regulation of ocular dominance plasticity.
Directors of graduate and undergraduate programs in neuroscience were asked to describe the optimal preparatory background of undergraduates entering graduate programs in neuroscience. Both undergraduate and graduate directors ranked research experience as the most important credential. Graduate directors considered grades/grade point averages and graduate record examination scores as the second and third most important variables. Undergraduate directors ranked courses and grades/grade point averages as their second and third choices. The most essential course for both types of directors was introduction to biology. The next most essential courses for the undergraduate directors were organic/inorganic chemistry and introduction to neuroscience (tied percentages), whereas the graduate directors chose calculus. This latter choice was interpreted as a symbolic representation of the need for quantification in science, generally. Both types of directors chose a course in biochemistry as the most important or desirable course but not necessarily an essential course. These findings have important implications for the training of future undergraduate neuroscience majors.
Concentrating a wide range of spinal cord injury (SCI) research laboratories in a single location to accelerate progress and draw attention to the promise of SCI research has made The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis one of the most publicly recognized and often controversial research groups in the neurosciences. A &quot;Center of Excellence&quot; at the University of Miami School of Medicine, the Miami Project also serves as a model for SCI research programs being developed nationally and internationally. Founded in 1985, the Miami Project set out on an unprecedented path-to develop a research center dedicated to improving treatments for SCI by bridging basic and clinical science. In doing so, neurosurgeon Barth Green, M.D., enlisted not only a multidisciplinary team of scientists but also a devoted following of financial donors and volunteer research subjects, and support from the University of Miami and Florida legislature. Highly visible spokespersons, including cofounder ex-Miami Dolphin Nick Buoniconti and his son Marc, brought the issue of SCI paralysis and the promise of research before the public, the media, and sports communities. As progress in the neurosciences has raced ahead, public attention to medical research, and SCI research in particular, has grown exponentially. This review will assess the Miami Project as a model for disease-based research that unites academic, philanthropic, and patient communities in a common cause.

Hypoxic ischemia is a common cause of damage to the fetal and neonatal brain. Although systemic and cerebrovascular physiologic factors play an important role in the initial phases of hypoxic-ischemic injuries, the intrinsic vulnerability of specific cell types and systems in the developing brain may be more important in determining the final pattern of damage and functional disability. Excitotoxicity, a term applied to the death of neurons and certain other cells caused by overstimulation of excitatory, mainly glutamate, neurotransmitter receptors, plays a critical role in these processes. Selected neuronal circuits as well as certain populations of glia such as immature periventricular oligodendroglia may die from excitotoxicity triggered by hypoxic ischemia. These patterns of neuropathologic vulnerability are associated with clinical syndromes of neurologic disability such as the extrapyramidal and spastic diplegia forms of cerebral palsy. The cascade of biochemical and histopathologic events triggered by hypoxic ischemia can extend for days to weeks after the insult is triggered, creating the potential for therapeutic interventions.
If geomagnetic-mediated stimuli trigger many sudden infant deaths, then the days in which they and hospital admissions for cardiac arrhythmias for adults occur should share a similar source of variance. Factor analyses of the days in which a sudden infant death occurred in Ontario or adults were admitted for one of eight categories of cardiac crisis in the Sudbury (Ontario) Region for the year 1984 supported the hypothesis. This factor, with which infant deaths and adult cardiac arrhythmias each shared about 40% of their variance, also shared about 40% of the variance with a factor with which about 35% of the variance in daily occurrence of geomagnetic pulsations (0.2 Hz to 5 Hz) was associated. These results are consistent with the important role of geomagnetic variables in the occurrence of transient electrical anomalies in brain function rather than cardiac blood flow.
We study the oscillator equations describing a particular class of nonlinear amplifier, exemplified in this work by a two-junction superconducting quantum interference device. This class of dynamic system is described by a potential energy function that can admit minima (corresponding to stable solutions of the dynamic equations), or &quot;running states&quot; wherein the system is biased so that the potential minima disappear and the solutions display spontaneous oscillations. Just beyond the onset of the spontaneous oscillations, the system is known to show significantly enhanced sensitivity to very weak magnetic signals. The global phase space structure allows us to apply a center manifold technique to approximate analytically the oscillatory behavior just past the (saddle-node) bifurcation and compute the oscillation period, which obeys standard scaling laws. In this regime, the dynamics can be represented by an &quot;integrate-fire&quot; model drawn from the computational neuroscience repertoire; in fact, we obtain an &quot;interspike interval&quot; probability density function and an associated power spectral density (computed via Renewal theory) that agree very well with the results obtained via numerical simulations. Notably, driving the system with one or more time sinusoids produces a noise-lowering injection locking effect and/or heterodyning.
In the developing rodent, there is a period from about days 4 to 14 when the adrenal response to stress is either minimal or non-existent. This has been designated as the stress hyporesponsive period (SHRP). Numerous experiments have demonstrated that maternal factors are critical for the regulation of the pup's hypothalamic--pituitary--adrenal (HPA) axis and the maintenance of the SHRP. Following 24 h of maternal deprivation, the neonatal rat shows elevated basal levels of corticosterone (CORT) and exhibits a robust CORT and ACTH response to mild stress. Further, c-fos mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) is enhanced following stress in deprived pups. At least three aspects of maternal behavior play a role in the regulation of the HPA axis during development. Tactile stimulation appears capable of inhibiting most of the brain-related changes that occur following maternal deprivation. Feeding is essential for maintaining the adrenal-unresponsive and reduces the sensitivity of the adrenal to ACTH. Passive contact suppresses the response to stress. In the adult, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is the major neuropeptide that controls pituitary ACTH secretion. In the maternally deprived pup, CRH gene transcription is downregulated and arginine vasopressin (AVP) appears to assume the major regulatory hormone that modulates ACTH. These data all indicate that maternal factors are responsible for actively inhibiting the endocrine responses to stress postnatally. Thus, during development, most of the peripheral and central stress-responsive systems are capable of being activated. However, under conditions of normal dam-pup interactions, these responses are mostly suppressed by the dam's behavioral interaction with the pups.


The available treatment literature supports a role for medication management in the treatment of both AN and BN. The data on BN are clearer and suggest that antidepressant therapy--fluoxetine being the drug most widely studied--is superior to treatment with placebo but less effective than CBT alone, with one such study suggesting that the combination may provide optimal treatment. Specific recommendations as to when to add or not add antidepressants to CBT have been made, although the rules suggested here have yet to be empirically tested. Although the data on AN are much more limited, information available suggests a lack of efficacy for SSRIs in patients with AN at low weight and considerable use for SSRIs when used in combination with psychotherapy for patients with AN following weight recovery. Where do we go from here? Several pressing issues require careful study. First, in the case of patients with AN, can other agents, in particular the new atypical antipsychotics, be useful in treating patients when they are at low weight? In terms of relapse prevention, can the available findings indicating a role for antidepressants in relapse prevention be replicated, and, if so, can predictor variables that are associated with antidepressant response be identified? In the case of BN, clinicians need to know more about the best possible way to sequence interventions. It has been proposed to add medication to CBT early in treatment if the response to CBT alone is thought to be inadequate. However, other models should be considered, such as stepped-care models in which self-help manuals are used in conjunction with medications. The advantage of these interventions is they could be made more widely available than CBT, which requires a specialist's care. Also, several other new agents, such as sibutramine, which is a drug with serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibition effects, should be tested empirically in subjects with BN, given their pharmacologic profiles.
The relationship of personality and eating disorders is largely unclear. The development of well-specified conceptual models of this relationship, developments in family history, behavior genetic and prospective longitudinal research methodology, and careful consideration of how trait constructs may interact with state variables to produce or maintain eating disorders all will help to advance this area of research.
Plasmin, a serine protease, is involved in many physiologically relevant processes, including haemostasis, cellular recruitment during immune response, tumour growth, and also neuronal migration and synaptic remodelling. Both tissue-type and urokinase-type plasminogen activators can be efficiently inhibited by plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), a protease inhibitor of the serpin family. The human PAI-1 gene is located on chromosome 7q, within or close to a region that has been linked to autism in several linkage studies. Autism seems to be characterized by altered neuronal cytoarchitecture, synaptogenesis and possibly also cellular immune responses. We began addressing the potential involvement of the PAI-1 gene in autistic disorder with this linkage/association study, assessing transmission patterns of the 4G/5G polymorphism in the PAI-1 gene promoter that was previously shown to significantly affect PAI-1 plasma levels. No linkage/association was found in 167 trios with autistic probands, recruited in Italy and in the USA. We thus found no evidence that this polymorphism, or putative functionally relevant gene variants in linkage disequilibrium with it, confer vulnerability to autistic disorder.

The Dunn-Sidk multiple comparison procedure is used to test hypotheses and construct confidence intervals for two or more a priori nonorthogonal contrasts for population means. The procedure uses a levels that are not available in conventional t tables. In 1977 Games prepared a table of two tailed critical values that simplifies using the procedure. Researchers are accustomed to doubling alpha in a two-tailed t table to obtain the critical value in one tail. Unfortunately, doubling alpha in Games's table always gives one tailed critical values that are too small. Computational routines using the t inverse function in Microsoft Excel 98, SAS, and SPSS are presented for obtaining Dunn-Sidk one- and two-tailed critical values for ant familywise error rate, number of contrasts, and error degrees of freedom.


Non-invasive radioligand imaging methods for brain receptor studies use either short-lived positron-emitting radionuclides such as 11C and 18F for positron emission tomography (PET) or single photon-emitting radionuclides such as 123I for single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). PET and SPECT use radioligands which are injected intravenously into experimental animals, human volunteers or patients. The main applications of radioligands in brain research concern human neuropsychopharmacology and the discovery and development of novel drugs to be used in thetherapy of neurological and psychiatric disorders. A basic problem in PET and SPECT brain receptor studies is the lack of useful radioligands with appropriate binding characteristics. Prerequisite criteria need to be satisfied for a radioligand to reveal target binding sites in vivo. This section will discuss these important criteria and also review recent examples in neuroreceptor radioligand development such as selective radioligands for brain monoamine transporters.
The paper shows that formulated by I. P. Pavlov principles of higher nervous activity are quite fruitful even today in investigations into the problems associated with contemporary new physiological trends as, for instance, cognitive processes. Special attention is paid to study of the principles of neurophysiological organisation of the mechanisms carrying out analysing and synthesising activities. I. P. Pavlov was the first to indicate the important role of frontal cortex in these processes.

T cell activation is dependent on both a primary signal delivered through the T cell receptor and a secondary costimulatory signal mediated by coreceptors. Although controversial, costimulation is thought to act through the specific redistribution and clustering of membrane and intracellular kinase-rich lipid raft microdomains at the contact site between T cells and antigen-presenting cells. This site has been termed the immunological synapse. Endogenous mediators of raft clustering in lymphocytes have not been identified, although they are essential for T cell activation. We now demonstrate that agrin, an aggregating protein crucial for formation of the neuromuscular junction, is also expressed in lymphocytes and is important in reorganization of membrane lipid microdomains and setting the threshold for T cell signaling. Our data show that agrin induces the aggregation of signaling proteins and the creation of signaling domains in both immune and nervous systems through a common lipid raft pathway.
This study investigated whether the mechanism of action of levetiracetam (LEV) is related to effects on neuronal voltage-gated Na+ or T-type Ca2+currents. Rat neocortical neurones in culture were subjected to the whole-cell mode of voltage clamping under experimental conditions designed to study voltage-gated Na+ current. Additionally, visually identified pyramidal neurones in the CA1 area of rat hippocampal slices were subjected to the whole-cell mode of voltage clamping under experimental conditions designed to study low-voltage-gated (T-type) Ca2+ current. LEV (10 microM-1 mM) did not modify the Na+ current amplitude and did not change (200 microM) the steady-state activation and inactivation, the time to peak, the fast kinetics of the inactivation and the recovery from the steady-state inactivation of the Na+ current. Likewise, LEV (32-100 microM) did not modify the amplitude and did not change the steady-state activation and inactivation, the time to peak, the fast kinetics of the inactivation and the recovery from the steady-state inactivation of the T-type Ca2+current. In conclusion, neuronal voltage-gated Na+ channels do not appear directly involved in the antiepileptic mechanism of action of LEV, and LEV was devoid of effect on the low-voltage-gated (T-type) Ca2+ current in hippocampal neurones.




Cholinergic interneurons in the nucleus accumbens shell (AcbSh) are implicated in the reinforcing behaviors that develop in response to opiates active at mu-opioid receptors (MOR). We examined the electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) and MOR to determine the functional sites for storage and release of acetylcholine (ACh), and potential interactions involving MOR in this region of rat brain. VAChT was primarily localized to membranes of small synaptic vesicles in axon terminals. Less than 10% of the VAChT-labeled terminals were MOR-immunoreactive. In contrast, 35% of the cholinergic terminals formed symmetric or punctate synapses with dendrites showing an extrasynaptic plasmalemmal distribution of MOR. Membranes of tubulovesicles in other selective dendrites were also VAChT-labeled, and almost half of these dendrites displayed plasmalemmal MOR immunoreactivity. The VAChT-labeled dendritic tubulovesicles often apposed unlabeled axon terminals that formed symmetric synapses. Our results indicate that in the AcbSh MOR agonists can modulate the release of ACh from vesicular storage sites in axon terminals as well as in dendrites where the released ACh may serve an autoregulatory function involving inhibitory afferents. These results also suggest, however, that many of the dendrites of spiny projection neurons in the AcbSh are dually influenced by ACh and opiates active at MOR, thus providing a cellular substrate for ACh in the reinforcement of opiates.
During the last two decades numerous studies have been conducted in an attempt to correlate the mechanisms of long-term potentiation (LTP) of hippocampal synaptic transmission with those required for spatial memory formation in the hippocampus. Because stressful events block the induction of hippocampal LTP, it has been suggested that deficits in spatial learning following stress may be related to suppression of LTP-like phenomena in the hippocampus. Here I review these studies and discuss them in light of the emerging view that stress may induce changes in thresholds for synaptic plasticity necessary for both LTP induction and spatial memory formation. This phenomenon, known as metaplasticity, may involve a glucocorticoid modulation of calcium homeostasis.
Alcoholic patients are frequently regarded as responsible for their alcoholism and alcohol-related diseases, such as liver damage. These patients run the risk of receiving lower medical priority for liver transplantation than patients who are considered as not responsible for their liver damage. However, hardly any scientific research findings support this supposed responsibility of the alcoholic patient for his addiction and the related diseases. Many alcoholic patients have comorbid psychiatric disorders such as antisocial personality disorder, schizophrenia and social phobia, and these cormorbid diseases are often linked specifically and also in a neurobiological way to alcohol abuse. Furthermore, concepts such as responsibility and health have multiple dimensions, which can be contrasted against each other. Useful and fair criteria are presented for the assessment of responsibility for our health.
Studies demonstrating that accumulation and aggregation of the amyloid beta protein (Abeta) within the brain is likely to cause Alzheimer's disease (AD) have provided the rationale for therapeutic strategies aimed at influencing Abeta production, aggregation and clearance. gamma-secretase catalyzes the final cleavage that releases the Abeta from its precursor; therefore, it is a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of AD. Recent data show that the polytopic membrane proteins presenilin 1 and presenilin 2 are either catalytic components or essential co-factors of a membrane-bound proteolytic complex that possesses gamma-secretase activity. Although recent findings demonstrating that gamma-secretase inhibitors bind directly to presenilins (PSs) further support a catalytic role for PSs in gamma-secretase cleavage, additional studies are still needed to clarify the role of PSs in gamma-secretase cleavage and the use of targeting PSs to reduce Abeta production.
Increased oxidative damage and mitochondrial dysfunction have been suggested to play crucial roles in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. In this review, we will focus on progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), a rare parkinsonian disorder with tau pathology. Particular emphasis is placed on the genetic and biochemical data that has emerged, offering new perspectives into the pathogenesis of this devastating disease, especially the contributory roles of oxidative damage and mitochondrial dysfunction.
Non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists, such as phencyclidine, ketamine and MK801, produce psychosis in humans. These drugs also produce injury to cingulate-retrosplenial cortex in adult rodents that can be prevented by GABA-receptor agonists and antipsychotics such as haloperidol and clozapine. MK801 injections into anterior thalamus reproduce limbic cortex injury, and GABA-receptor agonist injections into anterior thalamus prevent injury produced by systemic MK801. Inhibition of NMDA receptors on GABAergic thalamic reticular nucleus neurons might activate thalamocortical 'injury' circuits in animals. Pathological activation of thalamocortical circuits might also mediate the psychosis produced by NMDA-receptor antagonists in humans, and might contribute to psychosis in schizophrenia.
Most contemporary theories of memory are based on the assumption that memory can be divided into multiple psychological systems that are subserved by different neural substrates and that contribute to performance in a relatively independent manner. Although the study of individual memory systems has proved to be enormously useful, recent data increasingly point towards complex interactions between memory systems during performance of any given memory task. Three basic classes of interactions between different memory systems (competition, synergism and independence) are presented that appear to be congruent with the findings of many behavioral studies. Consideration of interactions among multiple memory systems will enhance our current understanding of memory by encouraging the view that memory systems are dynamic interactive units, rather than independent modules that act in isolation.
Studies in transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease suggest the potential for vaccine development for this disease. Specifically, inoculation with Abeta peptide reduces Abeta plaque formation. However, this vaccination strategy has raised safety concerns. Recent studies have reduced these concerns by demonstrating that long-term Abeta vaccination in transgenic mice does not produce detrimental behavioral effects and in fact appears to protect against age-related functional decline in spatial memory tasks.


A 1 MHz transducer for use with transcranial Doppler ultrasound may improve the intensity and therefore the detection of embolic signals (ES) and may also reduce the number of absent acoustic windows. A series of studies was performed to investigate its potential benefits. Firstly, ES were detected using a 1 MHz and a 2 MHz transducer both in vitro and in vivo. Secondly, the time taken to identify 100 middle cerebral arteries (MCA) was recorded for both transducers and the best Doppler signal obtained was reviewed off-line and graded for quality. ES were more intense when detected with the 1 MHz compared with the 2 MHz transducer, both in vitro (p &lt;.0001) and in vivo (p &lt;.0001). Of the 100 MCAs studied, 81 had acoustic windows identified with both transducers. The number of acoustic windows detected with one transducer but not the other was the same for both transducers (n = 3). The time taken to identify the MCA was longer with the 1 MHz transducer (p &lt;.0001) and the quality of the signal achieved was poorer (p &lt;.0001). In conclusion, the 1 MHz transducer improved embolic signal intensity but the overall quality of the flow spectrum obtained was poorer with the 1 MHz than with the 2 MHz transducer. A lower frequency transducer of 1 MHz or possibly 1.5 MHz with transcranial Doppler ultrasound may improve the application of embolic signal detection but may not improve the signal for routine measurement of flow velocities.
We have recently identified and sequenced a molecular clone of the serogroup 2 simian retrovirus (SRV), D2/RHE/OR/V1, that retains an enhanced ability to infect specific T cell lines. In this report, using deletion mutagenesis, we localized the psi packaging signal, necessary for packaging of D2/RHE/OR/V1 particles, to the genomic region 345-650, which comprises the 5' intergenic region (IR) and the extreme 5' portion of the gag gene. To build an SRV-based gene transfer system and to reduce the possibility of recombination and regeneration of replication-competent viruses, we constructed split-genome D2/RHE/OR/V1 plasmid recombinants containing distinct and non-overlapping retroviral gene regions and several replacement components. For the retrovirus gene transfer vehicle, we deleted the D2/RHE/OR/V1 structural genes and substituted a cassette including the psi-packaging region, the beta-galactosidase reporter gene, and the 3' IR. Both packaging cell recombinants were used to generate stable monkey packaging cell lines; the gene transfer vehicle was subsequently transfected into the packaging cell lines, and replication-defective viruses were recovered for subsequent infection into fresh monkey cells. Successful infection by the recovered viruses verifies the potential efficacy of the SRV-based system as a research tool for gene transfer of heterologous genes into nonhuman primate cells.
This study investigated whether the stereoscopic (cyclopean) motion aftereffect (induced by adaptation to moving binocular disparity information) is dependent upon the temporal frequency or speed of adapting motion. The stereoscopic stimuli were gratings created from disparity embedded in a dynamic random-dot stereogram. Across different combinations of stereoscopic spatial frequency, temporal frequency and speed of adapting motion, the duration of the aftereffect was dependent upon temporal frequency (maximal aftereffect=1-2 cyc s(-1)). These results support the idea that stereoscopic motion is processed by a cortical mechanism that computes cyclopean motion energy.
Electrophysiological recording demonstrated that visuo-tectal projections are topographically organised after optic nerve regeneration in aged Xenopus laevis. 3H-thymidine autoradiography confirmed previous reports [Taylor, Lack, &amp; Easter, Eur. Journal of Neuroscience 1 (1989) 626-638] that cell division had already ceased at the retinal ciliary margin. The results demonstrate that, contrary to a previous suggestion [Holder &amp; Clarke, Trends in Neuroscience 11 (1988) 94-99], continued neurogenesis is not a pre-requisite for the re-establishment of appropriate connections with target cells.
Two consecutive events transforming the same illusory surface in transparent motion (brief changes in direction) can be discriminated with ease, but a prolonged interference ( approximately 500 ms) on the discrimination of the second event arises when different surfaces are concerned [Valdes-Sosa, M., Cobo, A., &amp; Pinilla, T. (2000). Attention to object files defined by transparent motion. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 26(2), 488-505]. Here we further characterise this phenomenon and compare it to the attentional blink AB [Shapiro, K.L., Raymond, J.E., &amp; Arnell, K.M. (1994). Attention to visual pattern information produces the attentional blink in RSVP. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 20, 357-371]. Similar to the AB, reduced sensitivity (d') was found in the two-surface condition. However, the two-surface cost was associated with a reduced N1 brain response in contrast to reports for AB [Vogel, E.K., Luck, S.J., &amp; Shapiro, K. (1998). Electrophysiological evidence for a postperceptual locus of suppression during the attentional blink. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 24(6), 1656-1674]. The results from this study indicate that the two-surface cost corresponds to competitive effects in early vision. Reasons for the discrepancy with the AB study are considered.
The myelinotrophic action of Prosaptide D5 was investigated in developing rats. Sulfatide concentrations in brain and sciatic nerve were determined to assess the development of myelination. Subcutaneous D5-injection significantly increased sulfatide concentrations in both brain and sciatic nerve by 250 and 150% over controls, respectively. D5 promoted ERK phosphorylation in iSC Schwann cells similar to prosaposin. The results showed that D5 treatment stimulated a myelination process in developing rat.
Previously, we demonstrated that chronic exposure of fetal monkeys to cocaine could result in development of the neocortex with significant cytoarchitectonic abnormalities [Synapse, 21 (1995) 435-444]. In the present study, we examined the developmental time-frame within which neocortical cytoarchitecture is susceptible to modifications by prenatal cocaine exposure. For this purpose, we assessed the integrity of cortical lamination and the position, density, and total number of occipital cortical neurons in 2-month-old monkeys which were prenatally exposed to chronic cocaine treatment either prior to the period of neocortical neuronogenesis, during the period of neocortical neuronogenesis, or after the period of neocortical neuronogenesis. We found that cocaine can interfere with the neocortical laminar organization and induce a reduction in the density and number of neocortical neurons only if it is administered at the time of neocortical neuronogenesis. During this window of vulnerability, an abnormal neocortex is generated as long as cocaine exposure is maintained, with corticogenesis becoming normal as soon as the administration of this drug is discontinued.

Dietary restriction (reduced calorie intake with nutritional maintenance) can extend lifespan and may increase the resistance of the nervous system to age-related diseases including neurodegenerative disorders. An environment enriched in intellectual and physical activities can also allay many of the adverse effects of aging on the brain. The mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of dietary restriction and environmental enrichment on the brain involve stimulation of the expression of neurotrophic factors and 'stress proteins'. The neurotrophic factors and stress proteins induced by dietary restriction may protect neurons by suppressing oxyradical production, stabilizing cellular calcium homeostasis and inhibiting a form of programmed cell death called apoptosis. Interestingly, dietary restriction and environmental enrichment also increase numbers of newly-generated neural cells in the adult brain suggesting that these behavioral modifications can increase the brain's capacity for plasticity and self-repair. A better understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying these effects of diet and behavior on the brain is leading to novel therapeutic agents that mimick their beneficial effects.
In the very early stages of embryonic development, cells have the capability of dividing indefinately and then differentiating into any type of cell in the body. Recent studies have revealed that much of this remarkable developmental potential of embryonic stem cells is retained by small populations of cells within most tissues in the adult. Intercellular signals that control the proliferation, differentiation and survival of stem cells are being identified and include a diverse array of growth factors, cytokines and cell adhesion molecules. Intracellular mechanisms that regulate stem cell fate are also emerging and include established second messenger pathways, novel transcription factors and telomerase. The possibility that a decline in the numbers or plasticity of stem cell populations contributes to aging and age-related disease is suggested by recent findings. The remarkable plasticity of stem cells suggests that endogenous or transplanted stem cells can be 'tweaked' in ways that will allow them to replace lost or dysfunctional cell populations in diseases ranging from neurodegenerative and hematopoietic disorders to diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
Telomerase is a reverse transcriptase that adds repeats of a DNA sequence (TTAGGG) to the ends of chromosomes (telomeres) in mitotic cells, thus maintaining their length and preventing cell cycle arrest and cell death (cellular senescence). During development of the nervous system, telomerase activity levels are high in neural progenitor cells, but then they decrease as cells differentiate or die. The catalytic subunit of telomerase (TERT) remains at relatively high levels during the process of neuronal differentiation and then decreases sharply during the period when synapses form and programmed cell death occurs. TERT promotes survival of developing brain neurons. Suppression of telomerase activity and TERT expression promotes apoptosis of neurons, whereas overexpression of TERT prevents apoptosis by suppressing cell death at a premitochondrial step in the death cascade TERT may suppress DNA damage and/or apoptotic signals activated by damaged DNA. Recent studies of the transcriptional regulation of the TERT gene suggest that this enzyme may mediate the cell survival-promoting actions of diverse signals including estrogen, cytokines and neurotrophic factors. The elucidation of the functions of telomerase activity and TERT in neuronal differentiation and survival may lead to novel approaches for preventing neuronal death and promoting recovery of function in various neurodegenerative conditions.
The nature of the aging process has been the subject of considerable speculation. It is believed that free radical damage to cellular components is one of the main contributors to the aging process. Studies on proteins have shown age-related decline in enzyme activities, age-related accumulation of oxidized proteins and a decline of the proteolytic machinery of the cell. The proteasome, a highly regulated intracellular proteolytic system, is the major enzymatic system responsible for the degradation of damaged proteins. The current knowledge on regulation and of the properties of this unique proteolytic system with special emphasis to the aging process are discussed in this review. Since it is known that caloric restriction (CR) is the only method to delay the aging process and extend the maximal lifespan the effects of CR on the age-related decline in protein degradation is highlighted.
A precise firing sequence (PFS) is defined here as a sequence of three spikes with fixed delays (up to some time accuracy Delta), that repeat excessively. This paper provides guidelines for detecting PFSs, verifying their significance through surrogate spike trains, and identifying existing PFSs. The method is based on constructing a three-fold correlation among spikes, estimating the expected shape of the correlation by smoothing, and detecting points for which the correlations significantly protrude above the expected correlation. Validation is achieved by generating surrogate spike trains in which the time of each of the real spikes is randomly jittered within a small time window. The method is extensively tested through application to simulated spike trains, and the results are illustrated with recordings of single units in the frontal cortex of behaving monkeys. Pitfalls which may cause false detection of PFSs, or loss of existing PFSs, include searching for PFSs in which the same neuron participates more than once, and attempting to produce a surrogate with some fixed statistical property.
This report describes a new kind of actometer for recording the behavior of rodents or other small animals. The instrument, a force-plate actometer, uses a stiff, low-mass horizontal plate coupled to four supporting force transducers positioned at the corners of the plate. When an animal moves on the plate, its movements are sensed by the transducers whose signals are processed by computer to yield measurements of a wide range of behaviors or behavioral attributes, such as locomotor activity, rotation around the center, whole-body tremor, and amphetamine-induced stereotypies. Spatial resolution is less than 1 mm, and temporal resolution is 0.02 s. Sample data were presented comparing the locomotor activity of CD-1, BALB/c, and C57BL/6 mice before and after treatment with D-amphetamine sulfate. Rotational behavior was recorded in an amphetamine-treated rat that had sustained a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesion of the nigrostriatal system. In the C57BL/6 mouse, harmaline-induced tremor was quantified. With rats as subjects, the force-plate actometer was used to quantify amphetamine-induced stereotypies, to demonstrate the development of sensitization to amphetamine's effects, and to quantitate the consistent 11-12 Hz rhythmicities that underlie the sterotypies. The performance of the force-plate actometer was compared with that of a variety of instruments reported in the literature on behavioral instrumentation. Finally, potential applications in neuroscience research other than those illustrated in this report were discussed.
Drosophila melanogaster can be used as a model organism for probing the genetic basis for alcohol sensitivity. In this paper, we describe a new device, the inebri-actometer, which measures the locomotor activity of up to 128 individual flies simultaneously. The device consists of 128 pairs of emitter/detector photodiodes connected in series through a computer interlink. A single fly is placed in each of the 128 chambers and humidified air or air containing variable amounts of ethanol vapor is pumped through the chambers. When a fly blocks the infrared signal transmitted by an emitter photodiode, the computer records one movement for that fly. We present preliminary results showing the effect of ethanol on the activity of wild-type Oregon R Drosophila. Five preliminary runs with 95% ethanol vapor revealed that this concentration induces an approximately 3- to 4-fold increase in locomotor activity which peaks at about 5 min after the addition of ethanol vapor. This is followed by a gradual decrease in activity leading to a nearly total cessation of movement after 30 min. Statistically significant dose-related activity increases were obtained for ethanol concentrations of 8, 19, 50, and 100% of maximum, assessed in two replications at each dose. Unlike the complete suppression of locomotion seen in the last 10 min of the session at maximum ethanol exposure, the initial stimulation effect at the 19% concentration was maintained across the 30-min session.
Electrical stimulation of peripheral nerve results in a motor-unit recruitment order opposite to that attained by natural neural control, i.e. from large, fast-fatiguing to progressively smaller, fatigue-resistant motor-units. Yet animal studies involving physiological exercise protocols of low intensity and long duration require minimal fatigue. The present study sought to apply a nerve stimulation method to selectively recruit smaller motor-units in rat skeletal muscle. Two pulse generators were used, independently supplying short supramaximal cathodal stimulating pulses (0.5 ms) and long subthreshold cathodal inactivating pulses (1.5 s) to the sciatic nerve. Propagation of action potentials was selectively blocked in nerve fibres of different diameter by adjusting the strength of the inactivating current. A tensile-testing machine was used to gauge isometric muscle force of the plantaris and both heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. The order of motor-unit recruitment was estimated from twitch characteristics, i.e. peak force and relaxation time. The results showed prolonged relaxation at lower twitch peak forces as the intensity of the inactivating current increased, indicating a reduction of the number of large motor-units to force production. It is shown that the nerve stimulation method described is effective in mimicking physiological muscle control.
A method for constructing a simple, durable injection-microelectrode (injectrode) is described. The injectrode can record neuronal activity, stimulate neuronal tissues, or inject substances locally through its tip. The injectrode is lightweight and is easy to construct from commercially available parts, and it can be used repeatedly for multiple recordings and injections. Since dura penetration can damage fragile electrode tips, a reliable method to pass the injectrode through an intact dura matter is described.
Recording of multiple neurons from a single electrode is common practice during extra-cellular recordings. Separation and sorting of spikes originating from the different neurons can be performed either on-line or off-line using multiple methods for pattern matching. However, all spike sorting techniques fail either fully or partially in identifying spikes from multiple neurons when they overlap due to occurrence within a short time interval. This failure, that we termed the 'shadowing effect', causes the well-known phenomenon of decreased cross-correlation at zero offset. However, the shadowing effect also causes other artifacts in the auto and cross-correlation of the recorded neurons. These artifacts are significant mainly in brain areas with high firing rate or increased firing synchrony leading to a high probability of spike overlap. Cross correlation of cells recorded from the same electrodes tends to reflect the autocorrelation functions of the two cells, even when there are no functional interactions between the cells. Therefore, the cross-correlation function tends to have a short-term (about the length of the refractory period) peak. A long-term (hundreds of milliseconds to a few seconds) trough in the cross-correlation can be seen in cells with bursting and pausing activities recorded from the same electrode. Even the autocorrelation functions of the recorded neurons feature firing properties of other neurons recorded from the same electrode. Examples of these effects are given from our recordings in the globus pallidus of behaving primates and from the literature. Results of simulations of independent simple model neurons exhibit the same properties as the recorded neurons. The effect is analyzed and can be estimated to enable better evaluation of the underlying firing patterns and the actual synchronization of neighboring neurons recorded by a single electrode.
In many vertebrate and invertebrate systems, pioneering axons play a crucial role in establishing large axon tracts. Previous studies have addressed whether the first axons to cross the midline to from the corpus callosum arise from neurons in either the cingulate cortex (Koester and O'Leary [1994] J. Neurosci. 11:6608-6620) or the rostrolateral neocortex (Ozaki and Wahlsten [1998] J. Comp. Neurol. 400:197-206). However, these studies have not provided a consensus on which populations pioneer the corpus callosum. We have found that neurons within the cingulate cortex project axons that cross the midline and enter the contralateral hemisphere at E15.5. By using different carbocyanine dyes injected into either the cingulate cortex or the neocortex of the same brain, we found that cingulate axons crossed the midline before neocortical axons and projected into the contralateral cortex. Furthermore, the first neocortical axons to reach the midline crossed within the tract formed by these cingulate callosal axons, and appeared to fasciculate with them as they crossed the midline. These data indicate that axons from the cingulate cortex might pioneer a pathway for later arriving neocortical axons that form the corpus callosum. We also found that a small number of cingulate axons project to the septum as well as to the ipsilateral hippocampus via the fornix. In addition, we found that neurons in the cingulate cortex projected laterally to the rostrolateral neocortex at least 1 day before the neocortical axons reach the midline. Because the rostrolateral neocortex is the first neocortical region to develop, it sends the first neocortical axons to the midline to form the corpus callosum. We postulate that, together, both laterally and medially projecting cingulate axons may pioneer a path for the medially directed neocortical axons, thus helping to guide these axons toward and across the midline during the formation of the corpus callosum.
The female sex hormone estrogen has a wide range of activities besides the sex-associated functions. Estrogen is a neurohormon. Its effects on structure and function of nerve cells is in the focus of research of basic neuroscience. In the brain estrogens not exclusively act via estrogen receptors but also receptor-independently. Estrogen can function dependent but also independent from estrogen receptors. In humans estrogen improves cognitive functions, learning and memory. In addition, beneficial effects of a hormone replacement therapy in prevention of Alzheimer's disease have been demonstrated. But on the basis of the current knowledge, estrogen is not a drug for the treatment of an already ongoing Alzheimer's disease process.

Two Wistar-derived rat lines, one sensitive (GHB-S) and the other resistant (GHB-R) to the anesthetic effect of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB), have been selectively bred. GHB-S and GHB-R rats were also sensitive and resistant, respectively, to the anesthetic effect of baclofen, the prototype GABA(B) receptor agonist, suggesting that they may be useful to elucidate not only the role of endogenous GHB but also that of GABA(B) receptors in sleep and anesthesia.
Changes in posture can affect the resting length of respiratory muscles, requiring alterations in the activity of these muscles if ventilation is to be unaffected. Recent studies have shown that the vestibular system contributes to altering respiratory muscle activity during movement and changes in posture. Furthermore, anatomical studies have demonstrated that many bulbospinal neurons in the medial medullary reticular formation (MRF) provide inputs to phrenic and abdominal motoneurons; because this region of the reticular formation receives substantial vestibular and other movement-related input, it seems likely that medial medullary reticulospinal neurons could adjust the activity of respiratory motoneurons during postural alterations. The objective of the present study was to determine whether functional lesions of the MRF affect inspiratory and expiratory muscle responses to activation of the vestibular system. Lidocaine or muscimol injections into the MRF produced a large increase in diaphragm and abdominal muscle responses to vestibular stimulation. These vestibulo-respiratory responses were eliminated following subsequent chemical blockade of descending pathways in the lateral medulla. However, inactivation of pathways coursing through the lateral medulla eliminated excitatory, but not inhibitory, components of vestibulo-respiratory responses. The simplest explanation for these data is that MRF neurons that receive input from the vestibular nuclei make inhibitory connections with diaphragm and abdominal motoneurons, whereas a pathway that courses laterally in the caudal medulla provides excitatory vestibular inputs to these motoneurons.
Axons proximal to a transection develop into enlarged, but presumed 'passive' endbulb structures. In previous studies, we observed that proximal stumps of transected sciatic nerves accumulate discrete and striking deposits of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) that have apparent direct and local actions on nearby microvessels. In this work, we provide evidence that CGRP, in the company of several additional peptides, are deposited through 'arrested' anterograde transport into axon endbulbs that develop after transection. In proximal stump tips of rat sciatic nerves transected 48 h earlier, CGRP accumulation colocalized with a label for neurofilament that was accentuated at axon tips, but was prevented by a concurrent more proximal sciatic section. Similarly, interruption of CGRP deposition eliminated its apparent actions on local microvessels following injury. CGRP accumulation was also observed in sural nerve proximal stump tips, indicating its presence in sensory axons despite the known declines in the sensory neuronal synthesis of CGRP that occur following axotomy. Peptide accumulation was not unique to CGRP, with a similar pattern of anterograde accumulation observed for substance P (SP), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and galanin. Deposited peptides and perhaps other axonal constituents in the milieu of a peripheral nerve injury may be associated with important local physiological actions in the regenerative microenvironment.
An involvement of serotonin (5-HT) 1A receptors in the etiology of psychiatric disorders has been suggested. Hypo-responsiveness of the 5-HT1A receptor is linked to anxiety and constitutive deletion of the 5-HT1A receptor produces anxiety-like behaviors in the mouse. Evidence that 5-HT1A receptor inactivation increases the therapeutic effects of antidepressants has also been presented. The present studies used in vivo microdialysis and homologous recombination techniques to examine the contribution of 5-HT1A autoreceptors to these effects. Basal and fluoxetine-evoked extracellular concentrations of 5-HT were quantified in the striatum, a projection area of dorsal raphe neurons (DRN), of wild-type (WT) and 5-HT1A receptor knock out (KO) mice. The density of 5-HT transporters was also determined. Basal 5-HT concentrations did not differ in WT and KO mice. Fluoxetine (10 mg/kg) increased 5-HT concentrations in both genotypes. This increase was, however, 2-fold greater in KO mice. In contrast, no differences in K(+)-evoked 5-HT concentrations were seen. Similarly, neither basal nor stimulation-evoked DA differed across genotype. Autoradiography revealed no differences between genotype in the density of 5-HT transporters or post-synaptic 5-HT2A receptors, an index of 5-HT neuronal activity. These experiments demonstrate that, under basal and KCl stimulated conditions, adaptive mechanisms in the 5-HT system compensate for the lack of 5-HT1A autoreceptor regulation of DRN. Furthermore, they suggest that the absence of release-regulating 5-HT1A autoreceptors in the DRN can not account for the anxiety phenotype of KO mice. The enhanced response to fluoxetine in KO mice is consistent with pharmacological studies and suggests that adaptive mechanisms that occur in response to 5-HT1A receptor deletion are insufficient to oppose increases in 5-HT concentrations produced by acute inhibition of the 5-HT transporter.
The baculovirus system has been used to express the rat dopamine D1 receptors in Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9) cells. A panel of typical antipsychotics including, alpha-flupenthixol, fluphenazine and thioridizine were found to inhibit dopamine-dependent stimulation of adenylyl cyclase. However, these compounds were also found to inhibit adenylyl cyclase activity in the absence of agonist in Sf9 cells expressing dopamine D1-like receptors. Therefore, these nonselective dopamine receptor compounds displayed negative intrinsic or inverse agonist activity. None of the compounds tested were neutral antagonists.
Tropomyosin (TM) is a regulatory protein of actomyosin system. Muscle type-specific expression of TM isoforms is generated from different genes and by alternative splicing. beta-TM isoforms in chicken skeletal and smooth muscles are encoded by a single gene and transcribed from the same promoter. We previously reported a smooth muscle cell (SMC) phenotype-dependent change in beta-TM expression (Kashiwada, K., Nishida, W., Hayashi, K., Ozawa, K., Yamanaka, Y., Saga, H., Yamashita, T., Tohyama, M., Shimada, S., Sato, K., and Sobue, K. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 15396-15404), and identified beta-TM as an SMC-differentiation marker. Here, we characterized the transcriptional machinery of the beta-TM gene in SMCs. Promoter and gel mobility shift analyses revealed an obligatory role for serum response factor and its interaction with the CArG box sequence in the SMC-specific transcription of the beta-TM gene in differentiated SMCs. We further isolated a novel homologue of the Barx homeoprotein family, Barx1b, from chicken gizzard. Barx1b was exclusively localized to SMCs of the upper digestive organs and their attached arteries and to craniofacial structures. Serum response factor and Barx1b bound each other directly, coordinately transactivated the beta-TM gene in differentiated SMCs and heterologous cells, and formed a ternary complex with a CArG probe. Taken together, these results suggest that SRF and Barx1b are coordinately involved in the SMC-specific transcription of the beta-TM gene in the upper digestive organs and their attached arteries.
In PC12 cells, epidermal growth factor (EGF) transiently stimulates the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases, ERK1 and ERK2, and provokes cellular proliferation. In contrast, nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulation leads to the sustained activation of the MAPKs and subsequently to neuronal differentiation. It has been shown that both the magnitude and longevity of MAPK activation governs the nature of the cellular response. The activations of MAPKs are dependent upon two distinct small G-proteins, Ras and Rap1, that link the growth factor receptors to the MAPK cascade by activating c-Raf and B-Raf, respectively. We found that Ras was transiently stimulated upon both EGF and NGF treatment of PC12 cells. However, EGF transiently activated Rap1, whereas NGF stimulated prolonged Rap1 activation. The activation of the ERKs was due almost exclusively (&gt;90%) to the action of B-Raf. The transient activation of the MAPKs by EGF was a consequence of the formation of a short lived complex assembling on the EGF receptor itself, composed of Crk, C3G, Rap1, and B-Raf. In contrast, NGF stimulation of the cells resulted in the phosphorylation of FRS2. FRS2 scaffolded the assembly of a stable complex of Crk, C3G, Rap1, and B-Raf resulting in the prolonged activation of the MAPKs. Together, these data provide a signaling link between growth factor receptors and MAPK activation and a mechanistic explanation of the differential MAPK kinetics exhibited by these growth factors.
As one of the most extensively studied protein hormones, insulin and its receptor have been known to play key roles in a variety of important biological functions. Until recent years, the functions of insulin and insulin receptor (IR) in the central nervous system (CNS) have largely remained unclear. IR is abundantly expressed in several specific brain regions that govern fundamental behaviors such as food intake, reproduction and high cognition. The IR from the periphery and CNS exhibit differences in both structure and function. In addition to that from the peripheral system, locally synthesized insulin in the brain has also been identified. Accumulated evidence has demonstrated that insulin/IR plays important roles in associative learning, as suggested by results from both interventive and correlative studies. Interruption of insulin production and IR activity causes deficits in learning and memory formation. Abnormal insulin/IR levels and activities are seen in Alzheimer's dementia, whereas administration of insulin significantly improves the cognitive performance of these patients. The synaptic bases for the action of insulin/IR include modifying neurotransmitter release processes at various types of presynaptic terminals and modulating the activities of both excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic receptors such as NMDA and GABA receptors, respectively. At the molecular level, insulin/IR participates in regulation of learning and memory via activation of specific signaling pathways, one of which is shown to be associated with the formation of long-term memory and is composed of intracellular molecules including the shc, Grb-r/SOS, Ras/Raf, and MEK/MAP kinases. Cross-talk with another IR pathway involving IRS1, PI3 kinase, and protein kinase C, as well as with the non-receptor tyrosine kinase pp60c-src, may also be associated with memory processing.
Behavioral recovery takes place even after permanent damage to the entire brain region normally controlling sensorimotor hind limb function in the rat. In our study, 2 weeks after full behavioral recovery from an experimental unilateral permanent brain damage, the topographic representation of the previous paretic hindlimb was investigated by fMRI. The analysis showed that during electrical stimulation of the previously paretic hindlimb, two normally inactive brain regions were now being activated. One region was the non-damaged contralateral sensori-motor cortex and the other region was located lateral to the lesion. These results suggest that behavioral recovery can be explained by functional reorganization and neuromodulation of the brain.
The condition of status epilepticus induced by systemic administration of kainic acid (KA) causes an apparent translocation of vesicular zinc from presynaptic boutons into postsynaptic neurons. The accumulation of zinc in the somata has been identified as a contributing cause of neuronal injury. We show here that another form of status epilepticus, induced by administration of the muscarinic agonist pilocarpine, produces changes in zinc that are essentially the same as those produced by the kainic acid-induced seizures. Moreover, neurons that develop zinc staining after pilocarpine seizures are the same that shown degenerative changes. This result suggests that the loss of zinc from presynaptic boutons and the appearance of zinc in postsynaptic somata may both occur in seizures per se, regardless of etiology.
This study reports the distribution of the alpha1D and alpha1E calcium channel subunits in the neotenous tiger salamander retina based on immunohistochemical techniques. Confocal and light microscopy were used to localize staining with fluorescently tagged antibodies to alpha1D and alpha1E in cross-sectional and flatmount preparations of retina. Alpha1D-immunoreactivity (alpha1D-IR) was localized to the inner and outer plexiform layers (IPL and OPL, respectively), ganglion cell layer (GCL), and optic fiber layer. Alpha1E-IR was found predominantly in the IPL, with scattered, weak representation in the OPL. Alpha1E-IR was not detected in the GCL or fiber layer. These findings suggest that different alpha1 calcium channel proteins have distinctive distributions in retina, which may reflect their unique and different roles in retinal processing and homeostasis.
Dopamine autoreceptors control the synaptic release and turnover of dopamine. Some dopamine agonists display a preference for modulation of autoreceptor functions rather than postsynaptic-driven behaviors. However, the nature of this apparent selectivity is still elusive. To investigate this property, we have used an heterologous expression system in which D2S receptors are coupled to both inhibition of cyclic AMP levels and stimulation of inositol triphosphate production. We show that D2-like receptor agonists display distinct potencies on these two second messenger pathways. Moreover, a strong correlation is observed between the potency of agonists to interact with adenylate cyclase and their potency to modulate autoreceptor functions. Such a correlation does not show up with the phospholipase C pathway. This suggests that autoreceptor preference of D2-like receptor agonists may be driven by a preferential interaction with a second messenger system.
Microglial activation induced by beta-amyloid (A beta) is an important cellular response in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we show that reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a role as signaling molecules for the activation of NF-kappaB and induction of IL-1beta mRNA expression in A beta(25-35)-treated murine microglia BV-2 cells. ROS scavengers such catalase and superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimetics obviously reduced activation of NF-kappaB and the elevated level of IL-1beta transcripts induced by A beta(25-35). In addition, the A beta(25-35)-induced NF-kappaB activation and IL-1beta expression were suppressed by blockers of the ROS generating enzymes such as NADPH oxidase, cyclooxygenase, and lipoxygenase. These data suggest that ROS mediate A beta-induced microglial activation.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) exhibits neurotrophic properties on different types of neuron, including motor, sensory and parasympathetic neurons. We demonstrate that sciatic nerve ligation induces an increase of the HGF receptor, c-met, mRNA in the distal segment of the sciatic nerve to the ligation site and a delayed elevation in the proximal segment. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed co-localization of cMet and GFAP and indicates that Schwann cells express cMet in the sciatic nerve after injury. HGF mRNA was detected in the spinal cord and DRG, and nerve injury did not alter the expression. These data demonstrate that the expression of HGF and cMet in the peripheral nervous system shows the unique pattern of regulation following nerve injury.
The aim of this study was to further investigate optokinetic reflex function in multiple sclerosis. Gaze-holding in darkness, optokinetic nystagmus, optokinetic afternystagmus and latency to circularvection were measured using electro-oculography and a rotating optokinetic drum. Gaze-holding was not significantly different between the multiple sclerosis and control groups; however, four of 23 multiple sclerosis patients exhibited eccentric gaze-evoked nystagmus. There were no significant differences in either optokinetic nystagmus frequency or latency to circularvection. However, optokinetic nystagmus slow phase velocity during rise time and amplitude during beat time were significantly reduced in the multiple sclerosis group (p &lt; 0.05 and p &lt; 0.0001, respectively). The time constant of optokinetic afternystagmus was also significantly reduced in the multiple sclerosis group (p &lt; 0.005). These results indicate that optokinetic nystagmus and optokinetic afternystagmus are significantly impaired multiple sclerosis.
In the present study, the early right-anterior negativity (ERAN) elicited by harmonically inappropriate chords during listening to music was compared to the frequency mismatch negativity (MMN) and the abstract-feature MMN. Results revealed that the amplitude of the ERAN, in contrast to the MMN, is specifically dependent on the degree of harmonic appropriateness. Thus, the ERAN is correlated with the cognitive processing of complex rule-based information, i.e. with the application of music-syntactic rules. Moreover, results showed that the ERAN, compared to the abstract-feature MMN, had both a longer latency, and a larger amplitude. The combined findings indicate that ERAN and MMN reflect different mechanisms of pre-attentive irregularity detection, and that, although both components have several features in common, the ERAN does not easily fit into the classical MMN framework. The present ERPs thus provide evidence for a differentiation of cognitive processes underlying the fast and pre-attentive processing of auditory information.
Neurotrophins are promising candidates to slow the progression of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a neurodegenerative disease in which spinal and cortical motoneurons selectively degenerate. In a long-term in vitro model, malonate-induced toxicity and cell death of motoneurons have been demonstrated. Here we studied the neuroprotective effect of BDNF, NT-3, and NT-4 on the cell death of cortical motoneurons in an organotypic culture model after chronic mitochondrial inhibition with malonate. Our data show that NT-4 completely prevents malonate-induced toxicity, whereas BDNF or NT-3 had no neuroprotective effect. In clinical trials for ALS, predominantly focussed on the survival of spinal motoneurons, BDNF has already been tested with disappointing results; our results suggest that NT-4 may be a better neurotrophin to prevent motoneuron loss.
Amyloid beta protein (Abeta) deposition was investigated in the frontal cortex of 54 autopsy cases of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) using methenamine silver staining, and immunohistochemistry employing the monoclonal end-specific antibodies BC05 and BA27 to visualize deposits containing Abeta(42(43)) and Abeta(40), respectively. Abeta was detected in 14 (26%) patients, nearly always in the form of diffuse Abeta(42(43)) containing plaques though some cored, neuritic plaques with trace amounts of Abeta(40) were occasionally seen. The 14 patients showing Abeta deposits were significantly older at onset of illness than those 40 patients without Abeta. It was only possible to genotype 46/54 cases, 16 of whom bore at least one copy of the Apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 allele, giving an allele frequency of 20%. Possession of APOE epsilon4 allele was significantly associated with deposition of Abeta such that 10/16 epsilon4 allele bearers had Abeta deposits. Eight of these ten patients showed only mild to moderate amounts of Abeta, but in two patients, one homozygous and one heterozygous for epsilon4 allele, there was extensive neuritic plaque and neurofibrillary tangle formation. In contrast, only few non-epsilon4 allele bearers (4/30) showed minor Abeta deposits. When stratifying for APOE epsilon4 allele, both bearers and non-bearers of epsilon4 allele with Abeta deposits had a significantly later age at onset than their respective groups without Abeta deposits. We conclude that the likelihood of Abeta deposition, as a secondary and coincidental feature unrelated to the primary pathological process, within the brains of individuals with FTLD will be high if patients have a sufficiently late onset of illness or happen to be a bearer of the APOE epsilon4 allele. Indeed 9/14 patients with Abeta deposits studied here had an onset of illness after 55 years of age and bore APOE epsilon4 allele.
The effect of thiopental on [U-(13)C]glutamate metabolism was studied in cerebellar astrocytes from mice using (13)C magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The cells were incubated with 0.5 mM [U-(13)C]glutamate for 2 h in the presence of 1 mM thiopental and 1 mM thiopental plus 0.2 mM gammaamino butyric acid (GABA). Labeled glutamate, glutamine, aspartate and glutathione were observed in cell extracts, and glutamine, aspartate and lactate in the media. Not only uniformly labeled glutamate was present in the medium, but also glutamate derived from the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. In the presence of thiopental, the amount of unlabeled glucose and [U-(13)C]glutamate removed from the medium was unchanged. This is in contrast to previous results obtained in cortical astrocytes, showing cellular heterogeneity. The concentrations of [1,2,3-(13)C]glutamate and [U-(13)C]glutamine were increased in the cell extracts, but unchanged in the medium, indicating an increased synthesis and an unchanged exchange or release. It should be noted that [U-(13)C]lactate is formed from [U-(13)C]glutamate via the TCA cycle and is released to the medium. In the presence of thiopental less [U-(13)C]lactate was observed in the medium. GABA had no influence on the effects of thiopental on cerebellar astrocytes.
The nucleus of the basal optic root (nBOR) is involved in the generation of the optokinetic response. Previous studies showed that most nBOR neurons exhibit direction-selectivity in response to largefield motion. We investigated the responses of pigeon nBOR neurons to drifting sine wave gratings of varying spatial and temporal frequency (SF,TF). Two groups of neurons were revealed. The first group preferred gratings of low SF (mean, 0.07 cycles per degree (cpd)) and high TF (mean, 0.76 Hz) ('fast' stimuli). The second group preferred gratings of high SF (mean, 0.56 cpd) and lower TF (mean, 0.33 Hz) ('slow' stimuli). Previous studies have demonstrated fast and slow neurons in pretectal nucleus lentiformis mesencephali, which is also involved in the generation of the optokinetic response.
Amyloid beta peptide (Abeta), the pathogenic agent of Alzheimer's disease (AD), is a physiological metabolite in the brain. We examined the role of neprilysin, a candidate Abeta-degrading peptidase, in the metabolism using neprilysin gene-disrupted mice. Neprilysin deficiency resulted in defects both in the degradation of exogenously administered Abeta and in the metabolic suppression of the endogenous Abeta levels in a gene dose-dependent manner. The regional levels of Abeta in the neprilysin-deficient mouse brain were in the distinct order of hippocampus, cortex, thalamus/striatum, and cerebellum, where hippocampus has the highest level and cerebellum the lowest, correlating with the vulnerability to Abeta deposition in brains of humans with AD. Our observations suggest that even partial down-regulation of neprilysin activity, which could be caused by aging, can contribute to AD development by promoting Abeta accumulation.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) recombinant strain 17CRE contains a site-directed mutation in the 7-bp CRE consensus sequence located 38 nucleotides upstream of the transcription start site. Scarified mouse corneas received inoculations of 17syn+ (parent), 17CRE, and rescue 17CREr. Slit lamp examination of herpetic lesions and tear film swabs containing infectious virus showed that 17CRE had the same acute phenotype as 17syn+ and 17CREr. At 4 weeks, when the corneas had healed and latency was established, mice received hyperthermic shock. Eye swabs taken 24 h after hyperthermia showed that 17CRE reactivated significantly less than 17syn+ and 17CREr, while no significant differences were found in HSV-1 DNA genome copy numbers and latent virus in the trigeminal ganglia. These results are evidence that this CRE site in the LAT promoter facilitates ocular HSV-1 reactivation in mice.
The structural basis of protein kinase C (PKC) binding to several classes of high-affinity ligands has been investigated through complementary computational and experimental methods. Employing a recently developed q-jumping molecular dynamics (MD) simulation method, which allows us to consider the flexibility of both the ligands and the receptor in docking studies, we predicted the binding models of phorbol-13-acetate, phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu), indolactam V (ILV), ingenol-3-benzoate, and thymeleatoxin to PKC. The &quot;predicted&quot; binding model for phorbol-13-acetate is virtually identical to the experimentally determined binding model for this ligand. The predicted binding model for PDBU is the same as that for phorbol-13-acetate in terms of the hydrogen-bonding network and hydrophobic contacts. The predicted binding model for ILV is the same as that obtained in a previous docking study using a Monte Carlo method and is consistent with the structure-activity relationships for this class of ligands. Together with the X-ray structure of phorbol-13-acetate in complex with PKCdelta C1b, the predicted binding models of PDBu, ILV, ingenol-3-benzoate, and thymeleatoxin in complex with PKC showed that the binding of these ligands to PKC is governed by a combination of several highly specific and optimal hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic contacts. However, the hydrogen-bonding network for each class of ligand is somewhat different and the number of hydrogen bonds formed between PKC and these ligands has no correlation with their binding affinities. To provide a direct and quantitative assessment of the contributions of several conserved residues around the binding site to PKC-ligand binding, we have made 11 mutations and measured the binding affinities of the high-affinity PKC ligands to these mutants. The results obtained through site-directed mutagenic analysis support our predicted binding models for these ligands and provide new insights into PKC-ligand binding. Although all the ligands have high affinity for the wild-type PKCdelta C1b, our site-directed mutagenic results showed that ILV is the ligand most sensitive to structural perturbations of the binding site while ingenol-3-benzoate is the least sensitive among the four classes of ligands examined here. Finally, we have employed conventional MD simulations to investigate the structural perturbations caused by each mutation to further examine the role played by each individual residue in PKC-ligand binding. MD simulations revealed that several mutations, including Pro11 --&gt; Gly, Leu21 --&gt; Gly, Leu24 --&gt; Gly, and Gln27 --&gt; Gly, cause a rather large conformational alteration to the PKC binding site and, in some cases, to the overall structure of the protein. The complete abolishment or the significant reduction in PKC-ligand binding observed for these mutants thus reflects the loss of certain direct contacts between the side chain of the mutated residue in PKC and ligands as well as the large conformational alteration to the binding site caused by the mutation.
Acute modulation of P/Q-type (alpha1A) calcium channels by neuronal activity-dependent changes in intracellular Ca2+ concentration may contribute to short-term synaptic plasticity, potentially enriching the neurocomputational capabilities of the brain. An unconventional mechanism for such channel modulation has been proposed in which calmodulin (CaM) may exert two opposing effects on individual channels, initially promoting ('facilitation') and then inhibiting ('inactivation') channel opening. Here we report that such dual regulation arises from surprising Ca2+-transduction capabilities of CaM. First, although facilitation and inactivation are two competing processes, both require Ca2+-CaM binding to a single 'IQ-like' domain on the carboxy tail of alpha1A; a previously identified 'CBD' CaM-binding site has no detectable role. Second, expression of a CaM mutant with impairment of all four of its Ca2+-binding sites (CaM1234) eliminates both forms of modulation. This result confirms that CaM is the Ca2+ sensor for channel regulation, and indicates that CaM may associate with the channel even before local Ca2+ concentration rises. Finally, the bifunctional capability of CaM arises from bifurcation of Ca2+ signalling by the lobes of CaM: Ca2+ binding to the amino-terminal lobe selectively initiates channel inactivation, whereas Ca2+ sensing by the carboxy-terminal lobe induces facilitation. Such lobe-specific detection provides a compact means to decode local Ca2+ signals in two ways, and to separately initiate distinct actions on a single molecular complex.
Synaptotagmin I is a synaptic vesicle protein that contains two C(2) domains and acts as a Ca(2+) sensor in neurotransmitter release. The Ca(2+)-binding properties of the synaptotagmin I C(2)A domain have been well characterized, but those of the C(2)B domain are unclear. The C(2)B domain was previously found to pull down synaptotagmin I from brain homogenates in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner, leading to an attractive model whereby Ca(2+)-dependent multimerization of synaptotagmin I via the C(2)B domain participates in fusion pore formation. However, contradictory results have been described in studies of Ca(2+)-dependent C(2)B domain dimerization, as well as in analyses of other C(2)B domain interactions. To shed light on these issues, the C(2)B domain has now been studied using biophysical techniques. The recombinant C(2)B domain expressed as a GST fusion protein and isolated by affinity chromatography contains tightly bound bacterial contaminants despite being electrophoretically pure. The contaminants bind to a polybasic sequence that has been previously implicated in several C(2)B domain interactions, including Ca(2+)-dependent dimerization. NMR experiments show that the pure recombinant C(2)B domain binds Ca(2+) directly but does not dimerize upon Ca(2+) binding. In contrast, a cytoplasmic fragment of native synaptotagmin I from brain homogenates, which includes the C(2)A and C(2)B domains, participates in a high molecular weight complex as a function of Ca(2+). These results show that the recombinant C(2)B domain of synaptotagmin I is a monomeric, autonomously folded Ca(2+)-binding module and suggest that a potential function of synaptotagmin I multimerization in fusion pore formation does not involve a direct interaction between C(2)B domains or requires a posttranslational modification.
The authors obtained MR and magnetization transfer (MT) imaging of the cervical cord from 25 patients with cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL). They found no conventional MR abnormalities, but a reduced peak height of the MT ratio (MTR) histogram. This suggests a reduced amount of &quot;truly&quot; normal cord tissue in CADASIL. A significant correlation was found between the extent of brain lesions and cord MTR, suggesting wallerian degeneration as the substrate of the cord MTR changes.

Through functional expression screening, we identified a gene, designated Humanin (HN) cDNA, which encodes a short polypeptide and abolishes death of neuronal cells caused by multiple different types of familial Alzheimer's disease genes and by Abeta amyloid, without effect on death by Q79 or superoxide dismutase-1 mutants. Transfected HN cDNA was transcribed to the corresponding polypeptide and then was secreted into the cultured medium. The rescue action clearly depended on the primary structure of HN. This polypeptide would serve as a molecular clue for the development of new therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease targeting neuroprotection.
To visualize and isolate live dopamine (DA)-producing neurons in the embryonic ventral mesencephalon, we generated transgenic mice expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the rat tyrosine hydroxylase gene promoter. In the transgenic mice, GFP expression was observed in the developing DA neurons containing tyrosine hydroxylase. The outgrowth and cue-dependent guidance of GFP-labeled axons was monitored in vitro with brain culture systems. To isolate DA neurons expressing GFP from brain tissue, cells with GFP fluorescence were sorted by fluorescence-activated cell sorting. More than 60% of the sorted GFP(+) cells were positive for tyrosine hydroxylase, confirming that the population had been successfully enriched with DA neurons. The sorted GFP(+) cells were transplanted into a rat model of Parkinson's disease. Some of these cells survived and innervated the host striatum, resulting in a recovery from Parkinsonian behavioral defects. This strategy for isolating an enriched population of DA neurons should be useful for cellular and molecular studies of these neurons and for clinical applications in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Cocaine and amphetamine regulated transcript (CART) was originally identified as a mRNA which increases in the striatum after acute cocaine or amphetamine administration in rats. In addition, intra-ventral tegmental (VTA) area injections of CART peptides produce psychostimulant-like behavioral effects. CART peptide immunoreactivity (CARTir) has been localized in discrete nuclei throughout the brain, and, within the striatum, it is located only ventrally in a subpopulation of medium spiny projection neurons in the shell and core of the nucleus accumbens. To better understand the potential role of CART peptides in the mechanism of action of psychomotor stimulants, we analyzed the distribution and synaptic connectivity of CARTir terminals in the ventral midbrain. CARTir terminal-like varicosities were located throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the substantia nigra (SN), VTA, and retrorubral field (RRF). They were particularly abundant in the dorsomedial SN where they overlapped with non-dopaminergic substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) neurons and proximal dendrites of dopaminergic substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) neurons. CARTir terminals were also in register with dopaminergic perikarya in the ventromedial part of the rostral SNc. In many instances, CARTir terminals ensheathed dendrites of SNr neurons. To characterize the postsynaptic targets and potential sources of CARTir terminals in the SN, electron microscopic observations were conducted. Ninety percent of the CARTir terminals examined displayed the ultrastructural features of boutons of striatal origin and 80% of them formed symmetric synapses with distal dendrites of SNr neurons. To further elucidate the source of CARTir terminals in the SN, unilateral excitotoxic lesions directed to the core of the nucleus accumbens (Acc) were produced; this led to a dramatic, almost complete loss of CARTir terminal staining in the ipsilateral SN, whereas the density of CARTir terminals was relatively unchanged in the VTA. In conclusion, this study demonstrates the presence of CART peptides in a direct pathway from the accumbens to the SNr, thus illustrating a unique feature of CART peptides in that they delineate a specific anatomical circuit of the basal ganglia.
Radial glia are critical for cell migration and lamination of the cortex. In most developing cortical structures, radial glia, as their name suggests, extend processes from the ventricle to the pia in regular parallel arrangements. However, immunohistochemical labeling from several laboratories suggests that radial glia have a more branched morphology in the olfactory bulb. To investigate the morphology of radial glia in the mouse olfactory bulb we (1) labeled radial glia and olfactory receptor neuron axons at 24-hour intervals by immunohistochemistry; and (2) developed a novel method of generating and applying &quot;nanocrystals&quot; of 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'- tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI) to the ventricle surface such that the processes of single olfactory bulb radial glia are labeled in the embryonic olfactory bulb. We examined the structure and interactions of radial glia with ingrowing olfactory receptor neuron (ORN) axons in late embryonic olfactory bulb development. These results showed that olfactory bulb radial glia do not form straight parallel structures as do radial glia in the neocortex but rather have a convoluted trajectory from the ventricle to the bulb surface. Moreover, olfactory bulb radial glia consistently extend tangential branches at the level of the internal plexiform layer. Beginning at embryonic day 17.5, two types of radial glia can be distinguished: type I radial glia have a process that extends from the ventricle into the glomerular layer. These apical processes form highly restricted tufts, or &quot;glial glomeruli&quot; at the same time that ORN axons are forming &quot;axonal glomeruli.&quot; In type II radial glia the apical process does not enter the glomerular layer but instead ramifies within the external plexiform layer. The tight spatiotemporal relationship between the glomerulization of radial glia processes and ORN axons during development suggest that radial glia processes could play a role in the formation and/or stabilization of mammalian glomeruli.

Systemic administration of antiinflammatory molecules to patients affected by immune-mediated inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) has limited therapeutic efficacy due to the presence of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). We found that three of five rhesus monkeys injected intrathecally with a replication-defective herpes simplex virus (HSV) type 1-derived vector engineered with the human interleukin 4 (IL-4) gene were protected from an hyperacute and lethal form of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis induced by whole myelin. The intrathecally injected vector consistently diffused within the CNS via the cerebrospinal fluid and infected ependymal cells, which in turn sustained in situ production of IL-4 without overt immunological or toxic side effects. In EAE-protected monkeys, IL-4-gene therapy significantly decreased the number of brain as well as spinal cord inflammatory perivenular infiltrates and the extent of demyelination, necrosis, and axonal loss. The protective effect was associated with in situ downregulation of inflammatory mediators such as tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1), upregulation of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta), and preservation of BBB integrity. Our results indicate that intrathecal delivery of HSV-1-derived vectors containing antiinflammatory cytokine genes may play a major role in the future therapeutic armamentarium of inflammatory CNS-confined demyelinating diseases and, in particular, in the most fulminant forms where conventional therapeutic approaches have, so far, failed to achieve a satisfactory control of the disease evolution.


Environmentally relevant levels of lead (Pb) have been demonstrated to have a neurotoxic action, especially on children. In this study, Long-Evans rats were continuously exposed to Pb acetate in drinking water from early gestational days (2-6) or from 28 days of age. At the 13th week of age, the functional activity of the nucleus accumbens (NAC) dopaminergic system was studied by means of transversal microdialysis. Neither Pb treatment regimen modified dopamine (DA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) extracellular concentrations, with respect to control rats. However, neuronal depolarisation, induced by perfusion with 60 mM KCl, increased extracellular DA levels to a significantly minor degree in rats exposed to Pb during the intrauterine life, with respect to both control and adult Pb treated rats. The in utero treated rats also responded with a lower DA release to amphetamine (1 mg/kg ip) administration. On the other hand, no difference in NAC DA level was found amongst treatment groups in response to different concentrations of the D(2)-D(3) dopaminergic agonist quinpirole, locally administered by means of inverse dialysis. These data indicate a preferential impairment of NAC DA synthesis and/or release in rats exposed to Pb acetate during their intrauterine life.
Caspase-3 plays an important role in programmed cell death as an execution-phase caspase in degradation of many substrate proteins. We identified a naturally occurring short caspase-3 variant (caspase-3s) from a human carcinoma cell line that is resulted from alternative mRNA splicing. Analysis of nucleotide sequence reveals a deletion of the exon 6 in this variant that resulted in an altered reading frame in the C-terminus, leading to an altered amino acid sequence and a truncated protein. Caspase-3s shares the same amino acid sequence as caspase-3 in the N-terminus containing the prodomain and the majority of the large subunit. The variant is 95 amino acid residues shorter at the C-terminus and is missing the conserved QACRG sequence in the catalytic site. Caspase-3 and caspase-3s are coexpressed in all human tissues examined. Several cancer cell lines also show coexpression of caspase-3 and caspase-3s, both at the mRNA and protein levels. Overexpression of caspase-3s in 293 cells is more resistant to apoptosis induced by proteasome inhibition. Furthermore, we identified that proteasome inhibition stabilized the level of caspase-3s.
It has been suggested that neuropeptide Y (NPY) and sigma (sigma) receptor ligands may share a putative NPY/sigma receptor in rat brain. To study whether NPY and sigma receptor ligands have an inverse agonism at this putative NPY/sigma receptor, we measured their effects on G-protein activity in rat brain. Using [35S]GTPgammaS autoradiography, we found that NPY-induced G-protein activation exhibited a discrete distribution pattern in rat brain. G-protein activation in superficial cortical layers and hippocampal CA1-3 region was mainly attributed to Y1 and Y2 receptors, respectively. In the presence of 10 microM sigma-receptor agonist BD737 or 10 microM sigma-receptor antagonist haloperidol, the distribution and density of [35S]GTPgammaS binding stimulated by 10 nM NPY was not significantly altered. In rat cerebellar membranes, NPY stimulated high-affinity GTPase activity in a dose-related manner, with maximal effects of 29% increase over basal level seen at 500 nM. This NPY-elicited GTPase activity was not significantly affected by micromolar concentrations of the sigma-receptor antagonists Dup734 or haloperidol. Since no significant effects by sigma-receptor ligands on NPY-induced G-protein activation were observed, we did not see an inverse agonism of NPY and sigma-receptor ligands at the putative NPY/sigma receptor measured at the level of G-protein activation, suggesting that sigma receptors and NPY receptors do not represent a common population in rat hippocampus and cerebellum. It is also suggested that G-protein activation is not a convergent point for the signal transduction mechanisms of NPY receptors and sigma receptors.
The prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster) is a highly social, monogamous species and displays pair bonding that can be assessed by the presence of selective affiliation with the familiar partner versus a conspecific stranger. In female prairie voles, exposure to a male or to male sensory cues is essential for estrus induction, and the subsequent mating facilitates pair bond formation. In the present study, we examined the role of the vomeronasal organ (VNO) in estrus induction and pair bonding in female prairie voles. VNO lesions did not alter olfaction mediated by the main olfactory system, but did prevent male-induced estrus induction. We by-passed the necessity of the VNO for estrus induction by estrogen priming the females. Despite the fact that all subjects displayed similar levels of mating, social contact and locomotor activities, VNO lesioned females failed to show mating-induced pair bonding whereas intact and sham-lesioned females displayed a robust preference for the familiar partner. Our data not only support previous findings that the VNO is important for estrus induction but also indicate that this structure is crucial for mating-induced pair bonding, suggesting an important role for the VNO in reproductive success in prairie voles.
An abundance of subthreshold membrane potential oscillations (SMPOs) at resting potential was observed in the neurons of chronically compressed dorsal root ganglia (DRG) using intracellular recording in vivo. Out of 386 neurons, 63 type A neurons displayed SMPOs. Three types of SMPOs were distinguished based on their characterizations of oscillation: (1) A regular pattern of SMPO emerged consistently with a mean frequency of 86 Hz and mean amplitudes of 3.3 mV. (2) A spindle-like pattern of SMPO was denominated by a spindle alteration of its amplitude. (3) An irregular pattern of SMPO had no rule on its change of amplitude and frequency. Compared with normal DRG neurons and injured DRG neurons but without SMPO, the injured DRG neurons with SMPO had the lowest spike rheobase, in accordance with the detection of spike accommodation. No significant differences among the three groups can be found in either membrane potential or input resistance. Further observation showed that the spontaneous discharge of hyperexcitable neurons usually occurred on the depolarizing phase of oscillations. In addition, the regular pattern of SMPO was based on the period and integer multiple patterns of spontaneous discharges. The spindle-like pattern of SMPO contributed to spontaneous bursting discharge. The irregular pattern of SMPO had a striking relation with irregular spontaneous discharge. The results show that neurons with SMPO in injured DRG have a higher excitability than those without SMPO, and that the SMPO underlie the patterns of spontaneous discharges, suggesting that SMPO is the basic electrophysiological change of hyperexcitable neurons.
GABA is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the adult brain. Early in development, however, GABAergic synaptic transmission is excitatory and can exert widespread trophic effects. During the postnatal period, GABAergic responses undergo a switch from being excitatory to inhibitory. Here, we show that the switch is delayed by chronic blockade of GABA(A) receptors, and accelerated by increased GABA(A) receptor activation. In contrast, blockade of glutamatergic transmission or action potentials has no effect. Furthermore, GABAergic activity modulated the mRNA levels of KCC2, a K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter whose expression correlates with the switch. Finally, we report that GABA can alter the properties of depolarization-induced Ca(2+) influx. Thus, GABA acts as a self-limiting trophic factor during neural development.
Retinoic acid (RA), a derivative of vitamin A, is essential for the normal patterning and neurogenesis during development. RA treatment induces growth arrest and terminal differentiation of a human embryonal carcinoma cell line (NT2) into postmitotic central nervous system neurons. Using RNA fingerprinting by arbitrarily primed polymerase chain reaction, we identified a novel serine/threonine-rich protein, RA-regulated nuclear matrix-associated protein (Ramp), that was down-regulated during the RA-induced differentiation of NT2 cells. Prominent mRNA expression of ramp could be detected in adult placenta and testis as well as in all human fetal tissues examined. The genomic clone of ramp has been mapped to the telomere of chromosome arm 1q, corresponding to band 1q32.1-32.2. Associated with the nuclear matrix of NT2 cells, Ramp translocates from the interphase nucleus to the metaphase cytoplasm during mitosis. During the late stage of cytokinesis, Ramp concentrates at the midzone of the dividing daughter cells. The transcript expression of ramp is closely correlated with the cell proliferation rate of NT2 cells. Moreover, overexpression of Ramp induces a transient increase in the proliferation rate of NT2 cells. Taken together, our data suggest that Ramp plays a role in the proliferation of the human embryonal carcinoma cells.
Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) containing the alpha7 subunit are expressed in the central nervous system, autonomic nervous system, retina, adrenal medulla, and PC12 cells. alpha7 nAChRs have been implicated in several important biological activities apart from synaptic transmission such as mediating neurite growth and presynaptic control of neurotransmitter release. A 178-base pair promoter was sufficient to drive high level expression of the alpha7 gene in PC12 cells. The alpha7 promoter was also cell-specific, expressing in PC12 cells but not in L6 rat muscle cells. Within our minimal rat alpha7 nAChR promoter we identified two sequences important for basal level expression. Mutation of a GC-rich sequence at -172 relative to the translational start site led to an increase in activity of the promoter, indicating the presence of a negative regulatory element. Upstream stimulatory factor-1 acted to regulate alpha7 expression positively by binding to an E-box at -116. A site directly adjacent to the upstream stimulatory factor-1 binding site was shown to bind Egr-1. Sp1 and Sp3 binding also occurred downstream from or overlapping the Egr-1 binding site in the rat alpha7 promoter. Several transcription factors interact in close proximity to control expression of the rat alpha7 nicotinic receptor gene.
U1A is a component of the uracil-rich small nuclear ribonucleoprotein. The molecular mechanism of nuclear import of U1A was investigated in vivo and in vitro. When recombinant deletion mutants of U1A are injected into the BHK21 cell cytoplasm, the nuclear localization signal (NLS) of U1A is found in the N-terminal half of the central domain (residues 100-144 in mouse U1A). In an in vitro assay, it was found that the U1A-NLS accumulated in only a portion of the nuclei in the absence of cytosolic extract. In contrast, the addition of importin alpha/beta and Ran induced the uniform nuclear accumulation of U1A-NLS in all cells. Furthermore, U1A was found to bind the C-terminal portion of importin alpha. In addition, the in vitro nuclear migration of full-length U1A was found to be exclusively dependent on importin alpha/beta and Ran. Moreover, in living cells, the full-length U1A accumulated in the nucleus in a Ran-dependent manner, and nuclear accumulation was inhibited by the importin beta binding domain of importin alpha. These results suggest that the nuclear import of U1A is mediated by at least two distinct pathways, an importin alpha/beta and Ran-dependent and an -independent pathway in permeabilized cells, and that the latter pathway may be suppressed in intact cells.
To elucidate the neuronal characteristics of the functional expansion in the uncrossed visual pathways (UXVPs), resulting from early monocular enucleation in rats, the feasibility of stimulus-dependent induction of the immediate early gene c-fos was examined immunohistochemically. In the UXVPs of rats with monocular enucleation at birth, patterned visual stimuli induced Fos-like immunoreactive (FLI) neurons much more densely in wide areas of the superficial layer throughout the superior colliculus (SC), and in the striate and extrastriate areas of the visual cortex (VC). In the UXVPs of rats monocularly enucleated after maturity, however, only a few stimulus-dependent FLI neurons were scattered in the restricted portions of the SC and the VC.

There is accumulating evidence that glial cells actively modulate neuronal synaptic transmission. We identified a glia-derived soluble acetylcholine-binding protein (AChBP), which is a naturally occurring analogue of the ligand-binding domains of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Like the nAChRs, it assembles into a homopentamer with ligand-binding characteristics that are typical for a nicotinic receptor; unlike the nAChRs, however, it lacks the domains to form a transmembrane ion channel. Presynaptic release of acetylcholine induces the secretion of AChBP through the glial secretory pathway. We describe a molecular and cellular mechanism by which glial cells release AChBP in the synaptic cleft, and propose a model for how they actively regulate cholinergic transmission between neurons in the central nervous system.
We have devised a highly sensitive fluorometric well plate assay for tissue transglutaminase that is suitable for multiple kinetic analyses/high-throughput screening of chemical inventories for inhibitors of this enzyme. The procedure measures the rate of fluorescence enhancement (lambda(exc) 260 nm, lambda(em) 538 nm) when 1-N-(carbobenzoxy-l-glutaminylglycyl)-5-N-(5'N'N'-dimethylaminonaphthalenesulfonyl)diamidopentane (glutaminyl substrate) is cross-linked to dansyl cadaverine (amine substrate). The assay procedure can be used to measure the activity of as little as 60 microU of purified guinea pig liver tissue transglutaminase (4.2 ng or 54 fmol of enzyme).
Although peptide transport across the plasma membrane has been characterized well in the kidney and the intestine, the functional relevance of this transport in other organs has not been addressed. Here we report the cloning of a cDNA for a novel peptide/histidine transporter found in the rat (rPHT2), whose mRNA is expressed mainly in the lymphatic system. rPHT2 encodes a protein of 582 amino acids and showed 49% identity with the brain PHT (PHT1) [Yamashita, Shimada, Guo, Sato, Kohmura, Hayakawa, Takagi and Tohyama (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 10205-10211]. rPHT2 mRNA was abundant in lung, spleen and thymus, and detected faintly in brain, liver, adrenal gland and heart by Northern-blot analysis and reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR). Intense signals for the gene were found in immunocytes using in situ hybridization. Ectopic expression of rPHT2 protein in HEK-293T cells and BHK cells was not found on the cell surface, but was found on the lysosomal membrane using light- and electron-microscopic analysis. Recombinant rPHT2 protein reconstituted into liposomes showed proton-dependent transport activity with histidine and histidyl-leucine. These findings suggest that rPHT2 is involved in the protein catabolic pathway in the lymphatic system.
We investigated the mechanism(s) of action of two new putative antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), (S)-(-)-10-acetoxy-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine-5-carboxamide (BIA 2-093) and 10,11-dihydro-10-hydroxyimino-5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine-5-carboxamide (BIA 2-024), by comparing their effects on the release of endogenous glutamate in hippocampal synaptosomes, with those of carbamazepine (CBZ) and oxcarbazepine (OXC). The AEDs inhibited the release of glutamate evoked by 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) or veratridine in a concentration-dependent manner, being CBZ more potent than the other AEDs. Using conditions of stimulation (30 mM KCl), where Na(+) channels are inactivated, the AEDs did not inhibit either the Ca(2+)-dependent or -independent release of glutamate. The results indicate that BIA 2-093 and BIA 2-024 have sodium channel-blocking properties, but CBZ and OXC are more potent than the new AEDs. Moreover, the present data also indicate that Ca(2+) channels coupled to the exocytotic release of glutamate and the activity of the glutamate transporter were not affected by the AEDs.
Manganese (Mn) in excess is toxic to neurons of the globus pallidus, leading to a Parkinsonian-like syndrome. We used rat primary neuron cultures to examine the cellular events following manganese exposure. Following exposure to Mn(2+) for 48 h, striatal neurons showed dose-dependent losses of mitochondrial membrane potential and complex II activity. The Mn exposure effect on mitochondrial membrane potential was significant at every concentration measured (5, 50, and 500 microM), and the manganese exposure effect on complex II activity was significant at 50 and 500 microM. Exposure of striatal neurons to both Mn(2+) and the complex II inhibitor 3-nitropropionic acid resulted in additive toxicity. Striatal neurons exposed to 5 microM Mn(2+) for 48 h exhibited DNA fragmentation and decreases in the immunohistochemically detectable microtubule-associated protein MAP-2. These results indicate that manganese may trigger apoptotic-like neuronal death secondary to mitochondrial dysfunction. Rescue of neurons by apoptosis inhibitors may be helpful in treating manganese toxicity and similar neurodegenerative processes.
Recent epidemiological, neuropathological, and biochemical studies have suggested a possible link between the neurotoxicity of aluminum and the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. However, this relationship remains controversial. To investigate detailed characteristics of neurotoxicity of aluminum, we used primary cultured neurons of rat cerebral cortex as an in vitro model system for the observation of morphological changes induced by chronic exposure to aluminum. Although the exposure to aluminum chloride (10-100 microM) for 1 week did not cause marked neuronal death, degeneration of neuritic processes and accumulation of tau protein and beta-amyloid protein appeared after chronic exposure to 50 microM aluminum chloride for more than 3 weeks. We also investigated the polymerization of beta-amyloid protein in vitro using the immunoblotting technique. We thus found that aluminum induced conformational changes in beta-amyloid protein and enhanced its aggregation in vitro. The aggregated beta-amyloid protein was dissolved by the addition of desferrioxamine, a chelator of aluminum. The aggregated beta-amyloid protein pre-incubated with aluminum formed fibrillar deposits on the surface of cultured neurons.
The brain shares with other organs the need for a constant and readily available supply of iron and has a similar array of proteins available to it for iron transport, storage, and regulation. However, unlike other organs, the brain places demands on iron availability that are regional, cellular, and age sensitive. Failure to meet these demands for iron with an adequate supply in a timely manner can result in persistent neurological and cognitive dysfunction. Consequently, the brain has developed mechanisms to maintain a continuous supply of iron. However, in a number of common neurodegenerative disorders, there appears to be an excess accumulation of iron in the brain that suggests a loss of the homeostatic mechanisms responsible for regulating iron in the brain. These systems are reviewed in this article. As a result of a loss in iron homeostasis, the brain becomes vulnerable to iron-induced oxidative stress. Oxidative stress is a confounding variable in understanding the cell death that may result directly from a specific disease and is a contributing factor to the disease process. The underlying pathogenic event in oxidative stress is cellular iron mismanagement.

Protein phosphorylation has long been known to play a key role in triggering the synaptic changes underlying learning and memory. Recent studies highlight the importance of tightly regulated dephosphorylation as a mechanism controlling the induction of long-term synaptic change and lasting memory.
In the chick metencephalon, oligodendrocyte precursors arise in distinct domains of the ventricular zone. During development, the earliest oligodendrocyte precursors appear in the metencephalic ventral ventricular zone adjacent to the midline, consistent with their location in the spinal cord. In contrast to spinal cord, however, distinct domains in the lateral and dorsal metencephalic ventricular zone subsequently generate oligodendrocyte precursors. All oligodendrogenic domains of the metencephalon appear in close apposition to regions that transiently express sonic hedgehog (Shh). Inhibition studies demonstrate a functional requirement for Shh signaling in the early appearance of metencephalic oligodendrocyte precursors, while in vitro studies suggest a dose-dependent increase in the number of oligodendrocyte precursors in response to Shh. In purified cultures of oligodendrocyte precursors, Shh promotes cell survival and proliferation, suggesting that Shh can act directly on these cells. These data suggest that Shh may be responsible for the localized appearance of oligodendrocyte precursors throughout the CNS, irrespective of the dorso-ventral neural axis.
During primary neurogenesis in Xenopus, a cascade of helix--loop--helix (HLH) transcription factors regulates neuronal determination and differentiation. While XNeuroD functions at a late step in this cascade to regulate neuronal differentiation, the factors that carry out terminal differentiation are still unknown. We have isolated a new Xenopus member of the Ebf/Olf-1 family of HLH transcription factors, Xebf3, and provide evidence that, during primary neurogenesis, it regulates neuronal differentiation downstream of XNeuroD. In developing Xenopus embryos, Xebf3 is turned on in the three stripes of primary neurons at stage 15.5, after XNeuroD. In vitro, XEBF3 binds the EBF/OLF-1 binding site and functions as a transcriptional activator. When overexpressed, Xebf3 is able to induce ectopic neurons at neural plate stages and directly convert ectodermal cells into neurons in animal cap explants. Expression of Xebf3 can be activated by XNeuroD both in whole embryos and in animal caps, indicating that this new HLH factor might be regulated by XNeuroD. Furthermore, in animal caps, XNeuroD can activate Xebf3 in the absence of protein synthesis, suggesting that, in vitro, this regulation is direct. Similar to XNeuroD, but unlike Xebf2/Xcoe2, Xebf3 expression and function are insensitive to Delta/Notch-mediated lateral inhibition. In summary, we conclude that Xebf3 functions downstream of XNeuroD and is a regulator of neuronal differentiation in Xenopus.
Forward genetic analyses can reveal important developmental regulatory genes and how they function to pattern morphology. This is because a mutated gene can produce a novel, sometimes beautiful, phenotype that, like the normal phenotype, immediately seems worth understanding. Generally the loss-of-function mutant phenotype is simplified from the wild-type one, and often the nature of the pattern simplification allows one to deduce how the wild-type gene contributes to patterning the normal, more complex, morphology. This truism seems no less valid for the vertebrate head skeleton than for other and simpler cases of patterning in multicellular plants and animals. To show this, we review selected zebrafish craniofacial mutants. &quot;Midline group&quot; mutations, in genes functioning in one of at least three signal transduction pathways, lead to neurocranial pattern truncations that are primarily along the mediolateral axis. Mutation of lazarus/pbx4, encoding a hox gene partner, and mutation of valentino/kreisler, a hox gene regulator, produce anterior-posterior axis disruptions of pharyngeal cartilages. Dorsoventral axis patterning of the same cartilages is disrupted in sucker/endothelin-1 mutants. We infer that different signal transduction pathways pattern cartilage development along these three separate axes. Patterning of at least the anterior-posterior and dorsoventral axes have been broadly conserved, e.g., reduced Endothelin-1 signaling similarly perturbs cartilage specification in chick, mouse, and zebrafish. We hypothesize that Endothelin-1 also is an upstream organizer of the patterns of cellular interactions during cartilage morphogenesis.
Sphingolipid activator proteins (saposins A, B, C and D) are small homologous glycoproteins derived from a common precursor protein (prosaposin) encoded by a single gene. They are required for in vivo degradation of sphingolipids with short carbohydrate chains. Six cysteines and one glycosylation site are strictly conserved in all four saposins. Total deficiency of all saposins and specific deficiency of saposin B or C are known among human patients. A mouse model of total saposin deficiency closely mimics the human disease. However, no specific saposin A or D deficiency is known. We introduced an amino acid substitution (C106F) into the saposin A domain by the Cre/loxP system which eliminated one of the three conserved disulfide bonds. Saposin A(-/-) mice developed slowly progressive hind leg paralysis with clinical onset at approximately 2.5 months and survival up to 5 months. Tremors and shaking, prominent in other myelin mutants, were not obvious until the terminal stage. Pathology and analytical biochemistry were qualitatively identical to, but generally much milder than, that seen in the typical infantile globoid cell leukodystrophy (GLD) in man (Krabbe disease) and in several other mammalian species, due to genetic deficiency of lysosomal galactosylceramidase (GALC) (EC 3.2.1.46). Thus, saposin A is indispensable for in vivo degradation of galactosylceramide by GALC. It should now be recognized that, in addition to GALC deficiency, genetic saposin A deficiency could also cause chronic GLD. Genetic saposin A deficiency might be anticipated among human patients with undiagnosed late-onset chronic leukodystrophy without GALC deficiency.
Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is caused by short expansions of the GCG trinucleotide repeat encoding the polyalanine tract of the poly(A)-binding protein 2 (PABP2). PABP2 binds to the growing poly(A) tail, stimulating its extension during the polyadenylation process, and limits the length of the newly synthesized poly(A) tail. Whereas PABP2 is expressed ubiquitously, the clinical and pathological features of OPMD patients are restricted to the skeletal muscle. To elucidate the possible role of PABP2 in skeletal muscle, we established the stable C2 cell lines expressing human PABP2. These stable cell lines showed morphologically enhanced myotube formation accompanied by an increased expression of myogenic factors, MyoD and myogenin. In nuclear run-on assay, the transcription rate of the MyoD gene was significantly increased by PABP2 transfection. We found the N-terminal region of PABP2 was responsible for the up-regulation of these myogenic factors. Furthermore, Ski-interacting protein (SKIP) was isolated as a binding protein for PABP2 using the yeast two-hybrid system. The interaction of PABP2 and SKIP was confirmed by glutathione S-transferase-pulldown assay and immunoprecipitation. Confocal laser scanning showed PABP2 was co-localized with SKIP in nuclear speckles. The reporter assays showed that PABP2 co-operated with SKIP to synergistically activate E-box-mediated transcription through MYOD: Moreover, both PABP2 and SKIP were directly associated with MyoD to form a single complex. These findings suggest that PABP2 and SKIP directly control the expression of muscle-specific genes at the transcription level.
Although the tachykinins substance P (SP) and neurokinin A (NKA) are coreleased from primary afferent nociceptors and act via neurokinin (NK) receptors, their differential effects in vivo are not known. Despite pharmacological evidence that NKA preferentially binds NK-2 receptors, this receptor is not found in spinal cord neurons. Thus, in the present studies, we compared the extent to which SP and NKA contribute to spinal nociceptive processing via the NK-1 receptor. We found that SP and NKA induce NK-1 receptor internalization with identical dose dependence and induce increases in intracellular calcium at the same concentrations, suggesting that SP and NKA equally activate the NK-1 receptor. We found, however, that the selective NK-1 receptor antagonist GR 205171 blocked NKA but not SP-induced NK-1 receptor internalization in the rat spinal cord in vivo and in embryonic day 19 rat spinal neurons in vitro. Using this selectivity of GR 205171 for NKA-induced NK-1 receptor activation, we examined the relative contribution of SP and NKA to noxious stimulus-induced activation of spinal NK-1 receptors. We estimate that NKA contributes to at least 50% of the NK-1 receptor activation in lamina I. Under inflammatory conditions, all noxious stimulus-induced NK-1 receptor internalization in deep dorsal horn neurons was blocked by GR 205171, suggesting that it is entirely NKA-mediated. Substance P-mediated NK-1 receptor internalization was focused at the site of termination of stimulated nociceptors but NKA also activated NK-1 receptors at more distant sites. We conclude that NKA not only targets the NK-1 receptor but may be a predominant pronociceptive primary afferent neurotransmitter.
Considerable evidence suggests that the lateral (LA) and basal (BA) nuclei of the amygdala are sites of plasticity and storage of emotional memory. Recent arguments, however, have seriously challenged this view, suggesting that the effects of amygdala lesions are attributable to interference with performance of fear behavior and not learning and memory. One way to address this controversy is to measure the same behavioral response during both conditioned and unconditioned fear. This is done in the present study by measuring fear-related freezing behavior after electrolytic and neurotoxic lesions of the LA or LA/BA nuclei in rats in a contextual fear conditioning paradigm and unconditioned fear to a predator odor. Electrolytic LA lesions attenuated post-shock freezing, retention test freezing, and freezing to the predator odor trimethylthiazoline (TMT). In contrast, excitotoxic NMDA lesions of the LA had no effect on post-shock freezing but significantly attenuated retention test freezing. Furthermore, excitotoxic LA lesions did not diminish freezing to TMT. Larger excitotoxic lesions that included the BA significantly reduced freezing in both the post-shock and retention tests but did not appreciably decrease freezing to TMT. The results suggest that the LA is important for memory of learned fear but not for generation of freezing behavior. In addition, the BA plays a role in freezing in conditioned fear situations but not in unconditioned fear. The studies suggest that the LA and BA play different roles in fear conditioning, but neither of them has a significant role in unconditioned freezing to a predator odor.
The 5-HT(2A/2C) agonist (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane HCl (DOI) stimulates hypothalamic neurons to increase the secretion of several hormones. This study addressed two questions: 1) are the neuroendocrine effects of DOI mediated via activation of 5-HT(2A) receptors; and 2) which neurons are activated by 5-HT(2A) receptors. The 5-HT(2A) antagonist (+)-alpha-(2,3-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-[2-(4-fluorophenylethyl)]-4-piperidinemethanol (MDL 100,907; 0.001, 0.01, or 0.1 mg/kg, s.c.) was administered before rats were challenged with DOI (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.). MDL 100,907 produced a dose-dependent inhibition (ED(50) congruent with 0.001 mg/kg) of the effect of DOI on plasma levels of ACTH, corticosterone, oxytocin, prolactin, and renin without altering basal hormone levels. Complete blockade of the effect of DOI was achieved for all hormones at MDL 100,907 doses of 0.01-0.1 mg/kg. In a parallel experiment, DOI was injected 2 hr before killing to determine its effects on the expression of Fos, the product of the immediate early gene c-fos. DOI induced an increase in Fos immunoreactivity in corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and in oxytocin-expressing neurons but not in vasopressin-containing neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus or CRF cells in the amygdala. Pretreatment with MDL 100,907 (0.1 mg/kg, s.c.) blocked the DOI-induced increase in Fos expression in all regions including the hypothalamus, amygdala (central and corticomedial), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and prefrontal cortical regions. The combined neuroanatomical and pharmacological observations suggest that the neuroendocrine responses to DOI are mediated by activation of neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and associated circuitry. Furthermore, selective activation of 5-HT(2A) receptors mediates the hormonal and Fos-inducing effects of DOI.
Notable differences in hippocampal structure are associated with intriguing differences in development and behavioral capabilities. We explored genetic and environmental factors that modulate hippocampal size, structure, and cell number using sets of C57BL/6J (B6) and DBA/2J (D2) mice; their F1 and F2 intercrosses (n = 180); and 35 lines of BXD recombinant inbred (RI) strains. Hippocampal weights of the parental strains differ by 20%. Estimates of granule cell number also differ by approximately 20%. Hippocampal weights of RI strains range from 21 to 31 mg, and those of individual F2 mice range from 23 to 36 mg (bilateral weights). Volume and granule cell number are well correlated (r = 0.7-0.8). Significant variation is associated with differences in age and sex. The hippocampus increases in weight by 0.24 mg per month, and those of males are 0.55 mg heavier (bilateral) than those of females. Heritability of variation is approximately 50%, and half of this genetic variation is generated by two quantitative trait loci that map to chromosome 1 (Hipp1a: genome-wide p &lt; 0.005, between 65 and 100 cM) and to chromosome 5 (Hipp5a, p &lt; 0.05, between 15 and 40 cM). These are among the first gene loci known to produce normal variation in forebrain structure. Hipp1a and Hipp5a individually modulate hippocampal weight by 1.0-2.0 mg, an effect size greater than that generated by age or sex. The Hipp gene loci modulate neuron number in the dentate gyrus, collectively shifting the population up or down by as much as 200,000 cells. Candidate genes for the Hipp loci include Rxrg and Fgfr3.
Experience can dramatically alter the responses of cortical neurons. During a critical period in the development of visual cortex, these changes are extremely rapid, taking place in 2 d or less. Anatomical substrates of these changes have long been sought, primarily in alterations in the principal visual input from the thalamus, but the significant changes that have been found take 1 week. Recent results indicate that the initial physiological changes in the cortical circuit take place outside of the primary input layer. We now find that rapid plasticity of binocular responses in the upper layers of cortex is mirrored by similarly rapid anatomical changes in the horizontal connections between ocular dominance columns in the upper layers, which reorganize within 2 d.
Delivery of neurotrophic factors to the injured spinal cord has been shown to stimulate neuronal survival and regeneration. This indicates that a lack of sufficient trophic support is one factor contributing to the absence of spontaneous regeneration in the mammalian spinal cord. Regulation of the expression of neurotrophic factors and receptors after spinal cord injury has not been studied in detail. We investigated levels of mRNA-encoding neurotrophins, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family members and related receptors, ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), and c-fos in normal and injured spinal cord. Injuries in adult rats included weight-drop, transection, and excitotoxic kainic acid delivery; in newborn rats, partial transection was performed. The regulation of expression patterns in the adult spinal cord was compared with that in the PNS and the neonate spinal cord. After mechanical injury of the adult rat spinal cord, upregulations of NGF and GDNF mRNA occurred in meningeal cells adjacent to the lesion. BDNF and p75 mRNA increased in neurons, GDNF mRNA increased in astrocytes close to the lesion, and GFRalpha-1 and truncated TrkB mRNA increased in astrocytes of degenerating white matter. The relatively limited upregulation of neurotrophic factors in the spinal cord contrasted with the response of affected nerve roots, in which marked increases of NGF and GDNF mRNA levels were observed in Schwann cells. The difference between the ability of the PNS and CNS to provide trophic support correlates with their different abilities to regenerate. Kainic acid delivery led to only weak upregulations of BDNF and CNTF mRNA. Compared with several brain regions, the overall response of the spinal cord tissue to kainic acid was weak. The relative sparseness of upregulations of endogenous neurotrophic factors after injury strengthens the hypothesis that lack of regeneration in the spinal cord is attributable at least partly to lack of trophic support.
The alpha1beta2gamma2 is the most abundant subtype of the GABA(A) receptor and is localized in many regions of the brain. To gain more insight into the role of this receptor subtype in the modulation of inhibitory neurotransmission, we generated mice lacking either the alpha1 or beta2 subunit. In agreement with the reported abundance of this subtype, &gt;50% of total GABA(A) receptors are lost in both alpha1-/- and beta2-/- mice. Surprisingly, homozygotes of both mouse lines are viable, fertile, and show no spontaneous seizures. Initially half of the alpha1-/- mice died prenatally or perinatally, but they exhibited a lower mortality rate in subsequent generations, suggesting some phenotypic drift and adaptive changes. Both adult alpha1-/- and beta2-/- mice demonstrate normal performances on the rotarod, but beta2-/- mice displayed increased locomotor activity. Purkinje cells of the cerebellum primarily express alpha1beta2gamma2 receptors, and in electrophysiological recordings from alpha1-/- mice GABA currents in these neurons are dramatically reduced, and residual currents have a benzodiazepine pharmacology characteristic of alpha2- or alpha3-containing receptors. In contrast, the cerebellar Purkinje neurons from beta2-/- mice have only a relatively small reduction of GABA currents. In beta2-/- mice expression levels of all six alpha subunits are reduced by approximately 50%, suggesting that the beta2 subunit can coassemble with alpha subunits other than just alpha1. Our data confirm that alpha1beta2gamma2 is the major GABA(A) receptor subtype in the murine brain and demonstrate that, surprisingly, the loss of this receptor subtype is not lethal.
Changes in gene expression are thought to be involved in neuronal plasticity associated with learning and memory. Although acetylation of lysine residues on histones by histone acetyltransferases (HAT) is an obligatory component of transcription, HAT activity has been largely ignored in studies of the nervous system. We developed a new model for studying novel taste learning using novel solid food presentation to nondeprived animals. Using this behavioral paradigm, we investigated short- and long-term regulation of lysine acetyltransferase activity and the ERK/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/RSK cascade in insular cortex, a CNS region known to be crucial for the formation of novel taste memories. We observed that novel taste learning elicited biphasic (acute and long-lasting) activation of two distinct lysine acetyltransferase activities along with the ERK/MAPK cascade in insular cortex. In vitro studies revealed that the ERK cascade could regulate the lysine acetylation of a 42 kDa lysine acetyltransferase substrate, suggesting a causal relationship between ERK activation and lysine acetyltransferase activity in insular cortex. Overall, our studies reveal an unanticipated long-lasting activation of insular cortex signal transduction cascades in novel taste learning. Furthermore, our studies suggest the hypothesis that acute and long-term ERK activation and lysine-histone acetyltransferase activation may play a role in regulating gene expression in single-trial learning and long-term memory formation.
Mutations were identified in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase gene (SOD1) in approximately 15% of patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Transgenic animals expressing mutant SOD1 in all tissues develop an ALS-like phenotype. To determine whether neuron-specific expression of mutant SOD1 is sufficient to produce such a phenotype, we generated transgenic animals carrying the G37R mutation that is associated with the familial form of ALS (FALS), which is driven by the neurofilament light chain promoter. The transgenic animals express high levels of the human SOD1 protein in neuronal tissues, especially in the large motor neurons of the spinal cord, but they show no apparent motor deficit at up to 1.5 years of age. Our animal model suggests that neuron-specific expression of ALS-associated mutant human SOD1 may not be sufficient for the development of the disease in mice.
Subiculum is the primary output area of the hippocampus and serves as a key relay center in the process of memory formation and retrieval. A majority of subicular pyramidal neurons communicate via bursts of action potentials, a mode of signaling that may enhance the fidelity of information transfer and synaptic plasticity or contribute to epilepsy when unchecked. In the present study, we show that a Ca(2+) tail current drives bursting in subicular pyramidal neurons. An action potential activates voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels, which deactivate slowly enough during action potential repolarization to produce an afterdepolarization that triggers subsequent action potentials in the burst. The Ca(2+) channels underlying bursting are located primarily near the soma, and the amplitude of Ca(2+) tail currents correlates with the strength of bursting across cells. Multiple channel subtypes contribute to Ca(2+) tail current, but the need for an action potential to produce the slow depolarization suggests a central role for high-voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels in subicular neuron bursting.
Local versus distant coherence of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells was investigated in the behaving rat. Temporal cross-correlation of pyramidal cells revealed a significantly stronger relationship among local (&lt;140 microm) pyramidal neurons compared with distant (&gt;300 microm) neurons during non-theta-associated immobility and sleep but not during theta-associated running and walking. In contrast, cross-correlation between local pyramidal cell-interneuron pairs was significantly stronger than between distant pairs during theta oscillations but were similar during non-theta-associated behaviors. We suggest that network state-dependent functional clustering of neuronal activity emerges because of the differential contribution of the main excitatory inputs, the perforant path, and Schaffer collaterals during theta and non-theta behaviors.
Recent evidence has established a role for p75(NGFR) in developmentally regulated neuronal cell death. Although cell death due to NGF withdrawal is a well described, apoptosis in sympathetic neurons through stimulation of p75(NGFR) has not been clearly demonstrated. We have found that an antibody directed against the extracellular domain of murine p75(NGFR) profoundly effects the survival of short-term cultures of sympathetic neurons. Rat superior cervical ganglion neurons grown in the presence of NGF and treated with the bioactive antibody (9651) display a dose-dependent increase in cell death. This effect was independent of NGF concentration and partially reversed by either depolarizing stimuli or forskolin. The response to 9651 seems to act directly through a p75(NGFR)-mediated pathway and not by disturbing p75(NGFR)/TrkA interactions. Moreover, the kinetics of antibody stimulated cell death was more rapid than the cell death resulting from removal of NGF and treatment with CNTF failed to promote neuronal survival in the presence of 9651. Initiation of cell death is often associated with decreased NFkappaB activity, whereas survival or rescue correlates with increased NFkappaB. Increases in NFkappaB, however, have been observed in neurons in several diseases and late in apoptosis in differentiated PC12 cells. Time course studies revealed a rapid decrease in NFkappaB activity and a slight, but persistent increase in binding that correlated with decline in cell numbers 3 hr after treatment. These results suggest the cell death program is initiated shortly after antibody activation of p75(NGFR) and a subpopulation of cells may remain susceptible to rescue.
This report concerns a test of the hypothesis that gain in the stretch reflex pathway of cat medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscle during locomotion increases after denervation of its synergists, lateral gastrocnemius (LG), soleus (SOL) and plantaris (PL) muscles. In four cats, MG, tibialis anterior (TA) and vastus lateralis (VL) muscles were implanted with electromyogram (EMG) electrodes. The cats walked on a row of elevated pegs, some of which were spring-loaded and could be triggered to pop up at the moment of foot touchdown, rapidly dorsiflexing the foot. Pre-stretch EMG activity in MG as well as short-, medium- and long-latency responses to the dorsiflexions were compared before and after unilateral denervation of synergists. Short- and medium-latency responses of MG to perturbations increased in proportion to the increase in pre-stretch EMG in the days and weeks after partial denervation. This argues against an adaptive increase in stretch reflex gain independent of centrally generated extensor drive. Local anaesthesia of the skin of the paw did not significantly change the sizes of the stretch responses of MG before or after partial denervation. We conclude that pre-stretch EMG activity as well as stretch reflexes in MG muscle increased substantially after denervation of synergistic muscles. The data were consistent with an adaptive increase in central locomotor drive, causing more motoneuronal activity, which in turn resulted in an increase in the size of stretch reflexes.
Assuming that neural regeneration after spinal cord injury (SCI) will eventually become a clinical reality, functional recovery will probably remain incomplete. Assistive devices will therefore continue to play an important role in rehabilitation. Neural prostheses (NPs) are assistive devices that restore functions lost as a result of neural damage. NPs electrically stimulate nerves and are either external or implanted devices. Surface stimulators for muscle exercise are now commonplace in rehabilitation clinics and many homes. Regarding implantable NPs, since 1963 over 40 000 have been implanted to restore hearing, bladder control and respiration. Epidural spinal cord stimulators and deep brain stimulators are routinely implanted to control pain, spasticity, tremor and rigidity. Implantable NPs have also been developed to restore limb movements using electrodes tunnelled under the skin to muscles and nerves. Spinal cord microstimulation (SC[mu]stim) is under study as an alternative way of restoring movement and bladder control. Improvement in bladder and bowel function is a high priority for many SCI people. Sacral root stimulation to elicit bladder contraction is the current NP approach, but this usually requires dorsal rhizotomies to reduce reflex contractions of the external urethral sphincter. It is possible that the spinal centres coordinating the bladder-sphincter synergy could be activated with SC[mu]stim. Given the large and growing number of NPs in use or development, it is surprising how little is known about their long-term interactions with the nervous system. Physiological research will play an important role in elucidating the mechanisms underlying these interactions.
Injury to the adult mammalian spinal cord results in extensive axonal degeneration, variable amounts of neuronal loss, and often severe functional deficits. Restoration of controlled function depends on regeneration of these axons through an injury site and the formation of functional synaptic connections. One strategy that has emerged for promoting axonal regeneration after spinal cord injury is the implantation of autologous Schwann cells into sites of spinal cord injury to support and guide axonal growth. Further, more recent experiments have shown that neurotrophic factors can also promote axonal growth, and, when combined with Schwann cell grafts, can further amplify axonal extension after injury. Continued preclinical development of these approaches to neural repair may ultimately generate strategies that could be tested in human injury.
The intrinsic function of the spinal network that generates locomotion can be studied in the isolated brainstem-spinal cord of the lamprey, a lower vertebrate. The motor pattern underlying locomotion can be elicited in the isolated spinal cord. The network consists of excitatory glutamatergic and inhibitory glycinergic interneurones with known connectivity. The current review addresses the different subtypes of ion channels that are present in the cell types that constitute the network. In particular the roles of the different subtypes of Ca2+ channels and potassium channels that regulate integrated neuronal functions, like frequency regulation, spike frequency adaptation and properties that are important for generating features of the motor pattern (e.g. burst termination), are reviewed. By knowing the role of an ion channel at the cellular level, we also, based on previous knowledge of network connectivity, can understand which effect a given ion channel may exert at the different levels from molecule and cell to network and behaviour.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been linked to the development, differentiation, and plasticity of the central nervous system. In the present study, we first used a highly specific affinity-purified antibody and a cRNA probe to generate a detailed mapping of BDNF immunoreactive (BDNF-ir) staining and mRNA labeling throughout the forebrain of female prairie voles. Our data revealed that (1) BDNF-ir cells were present essentially in the brain regions in which BDNF mRNA-labeled cells were found; (2) BDNF-ir fibers were distributed extensively throughout many forebrain regions; and (3) BDNF mRNA was also detected in some thalamic regions in which BDNF-ir fibers, but not immunostained cells, were present. With few exceptions, the distribution pattern of BDNF in the vole brain generally resembled the pattern found in rats. In a second experiment, we examined the effects of estrogen on BDNF expression. Ovariectomized prairie voles that were treated with estradiol benzoate had a higher level of BDNF mRNA labeling in the dentate gyrus and CA3 region of the hippocampus, as well as in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala, than did ovariectomized voles that were treated with vehicle. In addition, estrogen treatment increased the density of BDNF-ir fibers in the lateral septum, dorsolateral area of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and lateral habenular nucleus. These data suggest that estrogen may regulate BDNF at the level of gene and protein expression, and thus, BDNF may be in a position to mediate the effects of estrogen on the brain of the prairie vole.

The 40 kDa catecholamine regulated protein (CRP40) has been shown to covalently bind catcholamines in vitro. In this report we provide evidence for CRP40 localization in the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway. Using double labeling immunohistochemistry, CRP40 was detected in the majority of substantia nigra pars compacta and striatal neurons. In addition, CRP40 was also present in tyrosine hydroxylase immunonegative neurons. Subcellular localization of CRP40 shows a predominant nuclear presence in striatal neurons while distinct outlining of the nucleus and cell body staining were seen more readily in nigral neurons. These findings suggest that CRP40 may have multiple functions in a variety of neurons in the central nervous system.
The effects of extended organ culture of human cornea on the structural integrity, particularly adhesion complexes, of the epithelium were determined. Human corneas were placed in organ culture using an immersion method. The structure of the cornea prior to culture (0 h) and at 7, 14, and 18 days in culture was evaluated by staining with hematoxylin/eosin, and by ultrastructural analysis that included a morphometric study of the type and number of adhesion complexes. Human corneas prepared immediately (0 h) and those in culture after 7 days showed similar structural organization and anatomical features. In contrast to 0 h specimens, the corneal epithelium at 14 days in culture exhibited signs of deterioration, with increases in cellular contraction, extracellular space, electron density of the cytoplasm, nuclear invaginations, and nucleoplasmic opacity, as well as aggregations of junctional complexes between cells. At 18 days in culture, the ocular surface epithelium was markedly reduced in thickness and consisted of no more than 2-3 cell layers; a distinct basal layer was not detected, and the morphology of the suprabasal and basal layers were similar. The basement membrane was disorganized, and anchoring complexes composed of hemidesmosomes were often absent. The number and type of the anchoring complexes associated with the basal epithelium and Bowman's membrane were comparable until 14 days of age, although the total number of hemidesmosomes per microm of epithelial plasmalemma was subnormal. After 2 weeks in culture, there were 38-72% fewer anchoring complexes and a decrease of 44% in the number of hemidesmosomes/microm of membrane from samples prepared immediately and after 7 days in culture. These results indicate that the structural integrity of human corneal epithelium in organ culture is compromised after 14 days in vitro using an immersion system of tissue culture. Thus, long-term use of cultures to define homeostasis and wound healing of the ocular surface epithelium, which necessitates normal architecture including anchoring complexes between epithelium and Bowman's membrane, may not be appropriate and requires careful monitoring both qualitatively and quantitatively at the electron microscopic level of resolution.
The p53 transcription factor is either latent or activated through multi-site phosphorylation and acetylation of the negative regulatory region in its C-terminal domain (CTD). How CTD modifications activate p53 binding to target DNA sequences via its core domain is still unknown. It has been proposed that nonmodified CTD interacts either with the core domain or with DNA preventing binding of the core domain to DNA and that the fragments of the CTD regulatory region activate p53 by interfering with these interactions. We here characterized the sequence and target specificity of p53 activation by CTD fragments, interaction of activating peptides with p53 and target DNA, and interactions of &quot;latent&quot; p53 with DNA by a band shift assay and by fluorescence correlation spectroscopy. In addition to CTD fragments, several long basic peptides activated p53 and also transcription factor YY1. These peptides and CTD aggregated target DNA but apparently did not interact with p53. The potency to aggregate DNA correlated with the ability to activate p53, suggesting that p53 binds to target sequences upon interactions with tightly packed DNA in aggregates. Latent full-length p53 dissociated DNA aggregates via its core and CTD, and this effect was potentiated by GTP. Latent p53 also formed complexes via both its core and CTD with long nontarget DNA molecules. Such p53-DNA interactions may occur if latent p53 binding to DNA via CTD prevents the interaction of the core domain with target DNA sites but not with nonspecific DNA sequences.
We recently reported that amino acid residues contained within a putative EF hand motif in the domain III S5-H5 region of the alpha(1B) subunit affected the relative barium:calcium permeability of N-type calcium channels (Feng, Z. P., Hamid, J., Doering, C., Jarvis, S. E., Bosey, G. M., Bourinet, E., Snutch, T. P., and Zamponi, G. W. (2001) J. Biol. Chem. 276, 5726-5730). Since this region partially overlaps with residues previously implicated in block of the channel by omega-conotoxin GVIA, we assessed the effects of mutations in the putative EF hand domain on channel block by omega-conotoxin GVIA and the structurally related omega-conotoxin MVIIA. Both of the toxins irreversibly block the activity of wild type alpha(1B) N-type channels. We find that in addition to previously identified amino acid residues, residues in positions 1326 and 1332 are important determinants of omega-conotoxin GVIA blockade. Substitution of residue Glu(1332) to arginine slows the time course of development of block. Point mutations in position Gly(1326) to either arginine, glutamic acid, or proline dramatically decrease the time constant for development of the block. Additionally, in the G1326P mutant channel activity was almost completely recovered following washout. A qualitatively similar result was obtained with omega-conotoxin MVIIA, suggesting that common molecular determinants underlie block by these two toxins. Taken together the data suggest that residue Gly(1326) may form a barrier, which controls the access of peptide toxins to their blocking site within the outer vestibule of the channel pore and also stabilizes the toxin-channel interaction.
Deficits in oxidative phosphorylation have been implicated in many neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, cytochrome oxidase activity was inhibited following a 28-d systemic administration of nonlethal sodium azide via subcutaneous osmotic pumps. Quantitative enzyme histochemistry was performed on tissue sections from brain, skeletal muscle, and heart to localize cytochrome oxidase activity both globally and in regions within each tissue. Significant decreases of cytochrome oxidase activity were found in the brain and skeletal muscle but not heart. In addition, regions within each tissue were also analyzed, such as cortex and striatum in the brain and red and white fibers in skeletal muscle. The tissue specific inhibition of cytochrome oxidase by sodium azide could serve as a positive control for studies of other mitochondrial toxins in aerobically compromised cells. Therefore, chronic nonlethal sodium azide administration may provide a potential rat model for the study of mitochondrial dysfunction and the role of environmental pollutants in brain and muscle tissues affected in certain neurodegenerative diseases.
Treatment efforts for cocaine addiction are hampered by high relapse rates. To map brain areas underlying relapse, we used electrical brain stimulation and intracranial injection of pharmacological compounds after extinction of cocaine self-administration behavior in rats. Electrical stimulation of the hippocampus containing glutamatergic fibers, but not the medial forebrain bundle containing dopaminergic fibers, elicited cocaine-seeking behavior dependent on glutamate in the ventral tegmental area. This suggests a role for glutamatergic neurotransmission in relapse to cocaine abuse. The medial forebrain bundle electrodes supported intense electrical self-stimulation. These findings suggest a dissociation of neural systems subserving positive reinforcement (self-stimulation) and incentive motivation (relapse).
The development of very high affinity, selective, and bioavailable h5-HT(2A) receptor antagonists is described. By investigation of the optimal position for the basic nitrogen in a series of 2-phenyl-3-piperidylindoles, it was found that with the basic nitrogen at the 3-position of the piperidine it was not necessary to further substitute the piperidine in order to obtain good binding at h5-HT(2A) receptors. This meant the compounds no longer had high affinity at the IKr potassium channel, an issue with previous series of 2-aryl-3-(4-piperidyl)indoles. Improvements could be made to oral bioavailability in this series by reduction of the pK(a) of the basic nitrogen, by adding a fluorine atom to the piperidine ring, leading to 3-(4-fluoropiperidin-3-yl)-2-phenyl-1H-indole (17). Metabolic studies with this compound identified oxidation at the 6-position of the indole as a major route in vitro and in vivo in rats. Blocking this position with a fluorine atom led to 6-fluoro-3-(4-fluoropiperidin-3-yl)-2-phenyl-1H-indole (22), an antagonist with 0.06 nM affinity for h5-HT(2A) receptors, with bioavailability of 80% and half-life of 12 h in rats.
A series of 2-amino-(phosphonoalkyl)-1H-benzimidazole-2-alkanoic acids was synthesized and evaluated for NMDA receptor affinity using a [3H]CPP binding assay. Functional antagonism of the NMDA receptor complex was evaluated in vitro using a stimulated [3H]TCP binding assay and in vivo by employing an NMDA-induced seizure model. Several compounds of the AP-6 type demonstrated potent and selective NMDA antagonistic activity both in vitro and in vivo. In particular, [R(-)]-2-amino-3-(5-chloro-1-phosphonomethyl-1H-benzoimidazol-2-yl)-propionic acid (1) displayed an IC(50) value of 7.1 nM in the [3H]CPP binding assay and an ED(50) value of 0.13 mg/kg (ip) in the NMDA lethality model. Compound 1, when administered intravenously as a single bolus dose of 3 mg/kg following permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery in the rat, reduced the volume of infarcted brain tissue by 45%. These results support a promising therapeutic potential for compound 1 as a neuroprotective agent.

Apoptosis is fundamental to the development and maintenance of animal tissues and the immune system. Rapid clearance of apoptotic cells by macrophages is important to inhibit inflammation and autoimmune responses against intracellular antigens. Here we report a new function for Mer, a member of the Axl/Mer/Tyro3 receptor tyrosine kinase family. mer(kd) mice with a cytoplasmic truncation of Mer had macrophages deficient in the clearance of apoptotic thymocytes. This was corrected in chimaeric mice reconstituted with bone marrow from wild-type animals. Primary macrophages isolated from mer(kd) mice showed that the phagocytic deficiency was restricted to apoptotic cells and was independent of Fc receptor-mediated phagocytosis or ingestion of other particles. The inability to clear apoptotic cells adequately may be linked to an increased number of nuclear autoantibodies in mer(kd) mice. Thus, the Mer receptor tyrosine kinase seems to be critical for the engulfment and efficient clearance of apoptotic cells. This has implications for inflammation and autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus.

Recent reports have suggested the presence of persistent cognitive impairments in patients diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder even after prolonged euthymic phases. In this work, various domains of cognitive function were examined in asymptomatic patients diagnosed with Bipolar I Disorder (BDI) in comparison with healthy subjects. Fifteen otherwise healthy BDI patients with a prior history of psychosis during mania completed a neuropsychological testing battery after a prolonged asymptomatic remission. Their scores were compared to those of individually matched healthy subjects with unpaired two-tailed t-tests at P&lt;0.01. Relationships between cognitive performance measures and clinical variables related to illness severity were also examined with Pearson correlations, P&lt;0.05. We detected poorer performance on measures of verbal learning, executive functioning and motor coordination in BDI patients compared to control volunteers. Scores on tests of executive functioning were negatively correlated with the number of episodes of mania and depression. Social and occupational scores were also associated with a poorer performance on measures of verbal learning and executive function. Euthymic BDI patients, therefore, demonstrate reductions in specific cognitive domains even after prolonged asymptomatic phases. Some of these deficits appear to be associated with a more severe course of illness and poorer social and occupational functioning.

Integer multiples firing (IMF), a special temporal pattern of firing, was recently observed in spontaneous discharge from injured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. To investigate the mechanism underlying IMF, the injured DRG neurons of rat were recorded intracellulary. Of 64 recorded A-neurons discharging spontaneously, eight fired spikes in the IMF pattern. Interspike interval (ISI) time series of IMF showed a structure of distinct bands on scatter map. Regular subthreshold membrane oscillations (SMOs) with relatively stable amplitude and frequency were observed on all eight IMF neurons. IMF could be induced from the neurons in periodic firing by local application of tetrodotoxin (TTX), a Na+ channel antagonist. During this process, the amplitude of SMOs varied markedly. Some SMOs were below action potential threshold so that they did not trigger spikes. Nor did some SMOs, though their amplitude were obviously beyond the threshold measured from nearby spikes. The results indicate that regular SMOs existent in injured DRG A-neurons underlie IMF, and the TTX-induced transformation of firing pattern from periodic to integer multiples may occur in two ways: decreasing the amplitude of SMOs and/or elevating action potential threshold.
Phenytoin is a widely used anticonvulsant drug that also reduces aggressive behavior. Aggression in humans and animals is often associated with low serotonin levels. This study examined the anti-aggressive properties of phenytoin in rodent isolation-induced aggression using a resident-intruder test to quantify aggression. Chronic treatment with p-chlorophenyl-alanine (PCPA), a competitive inhibitor of serotonin synthesis, significantly enhanced resident attack behavior compared to saline-treated control rats. Phenytoin dose-dependently reduced aggressive behavior specifically in PCPA-treated rats, but had no anti-aggressive properties in saline-treated rats. These data suggest that aggressive behavior in this model may be related to neuronal hyperexcitability that is sensitive to the anticonvulsant effects of phenytoin. Further, these data suggest isolation-induced aggression in PCPA-treated rats may be a useful model to investigate aggression associated with low serotonin in the brain.
Retinopathy of prematurity is a blinding disease, initiated by lack of retinal vascular growth after premature birth. We show that lack of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) in knockout mice prevents normal retinal vascular growth, despite the presence of vascular endothelial growth factor, important to vessel development. In vitro, low levels of IGF-I prevent vascular endothelial growth factor-induced activation of protein kinase B (Akt), a kinase critical for endothelial cell survival. Our results from studies in premature infants suggest that if the IGF-I level is sufficient after birth, normal vessel development occurs and retinopathy of prematurity does not develop. When IGF-I is persistently low, vessels cease to grow, maturing avascular retina becomes hypoxic and vascular endothelial growth factor accumulates in the vitreous. As IGF-I increases to a critical level, retinal neovascularization is triggered. These data indicate that serum IGF-I levels in premature infants can predict which infants will develop retinopathy of prematurity and further suggests that early restoration of IGF-I in premature infants to normal levels could prevent this disease.
Fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) promotes proliferation of neuroprogenitor cells in culture and is up-regulated within brain after injury. Using mice genetically deficient in FGF-2 (FGF-2(-/-) mice), we addressed the importance of endogenously generated FGF-2 on neurogenesis within the hippocampus, a structure involved in spatial, declarative, and contextual memory, after seizures or ischemic injury. BrdUrd incorporation was used to mark dividing neuroprogenitor cells and NeuN expression to monitor their differentiation into neurons. In the wild-type strain, hippocampal FGF-2 increased after either kainic acid injection or middle cerebral artery occlusion, and the numbers of BrdUrd/NeuN-positive cells significantly increased on days 9 and 16 as compared with the controls. In FGF-2(-/-) mice, BrdUrd labeling was attenuated after kainic acid or middle cerebral artery occlusion, as was the number of neural cells colabeled with both BrdUrd and NeuN. After FGF-2(-/-) mice were injected intraventricularly with a herpes simplex virus-1 amplicon vector carrying FGF-2 gene, the number of BrdUrd-labeled cells increased significantly to values equivalent to wild-type littermates after kainate seizures. These results indicate that endogenously synthesized FGF-2 is necessary and sufficient to stimulate proliferation and differentiation of neuroprogenitor cells in the adult hippocampus after brain insult.
Inborn species' perceptual preferences are thought to serve as important guides for neonatal learning in most species of higher vertebrates. Although much work has been carried out on experiential contributions to the expression of such preferences, their neural and developmental correlates remain largely unexplored. Here we use embryonic neural transplants between two bird species, the Japanese quail and the domestic chicken, to demonstrate that an inborn auditory perceptual predisposition is transferable between species. The transfer of the perceptual preference was dissociated from changes to the vocalizations of the resulting animals (called chimeras), suggesting that experiential differences in auditory self-stimulation cannot explain the perceptual change. A preliminary localization of the effective brain region for the behavioral transfer by using a naturally occurring species-cell marker revealed that it is not contained within the major avian auditory pathways. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that abstract aspects of auditory perception can be transferred between species with transplants of the central nervous system.
Novel 2-aryl indole hNK1 receptor ligands were prepared utilising palladium cross-coupling chemistry of a late intermediate as a key step. Compounds with high hNK1 receptor binding affinity and good brain penetration (e.g., 9d) were synthesised.
The synthesis and biological evaluation of a series of 2-aryl indoles with high affinity for the human neurokinin-1 (hNK1) receptor are reported, concentrating on optimisation of the indole substitution.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT]) modulates dopamine-related cognitive functions and motor activity through activation of selective receptor subtypes including 5-HT1A. Potential targets for these 5-HT1A-mediated actions of 5-HT include mesocortical and mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons having partially segregated distribution in the parabrachial and paranigral subdivisions of the ventral tegmental area (VTA), respectively. We therefore examined the ultrastructural immunocytochemical localization of the 5-HT1A receptor in the parabrachial (VTApb) and paranigral (VTApn) subdivisions of rat VTA, to determine 1) the functional sites for receptor activation, and 2) the cellular associations between this receptor and dopaminergic neurons identified by their tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) content. In each region, 5-HT1A immunoreactivity was mainly observed in somatodendritic profiles, but it was also present in small unmyelinated axons and in a few axon terminals and glia, suggesting a role for 5-HT1A receptors in presynaptic and glial functions, as well as postsynaptic neuronal activation, in VTA. In somatodendritic profiles, 5-HT1A gold particles were mainly localized to tubulovesicles presumed to be smooth endoplasmic reticulum. In addition, however, in distal dendrites receiving multiple inputs the receptor was targeted to selective postsynaptic junctions, or more randomly distributed on nonsynaptic portions of the plasma membrane. Of the 5-HT1A-labeled dendrites, 64% in VTApb and 44% in VTApn contained TH. These findings suggest a reserve of cytoplasmic 5-HT1A receptors that are mobilized to functional postsynaptic sites on the plasma membrane by afferent input to distal dendrites in the VTA. They also indicate that 5-HT1A activation may affect a larger population of dopaminergic neurons in VTApb compared with VTApn, thus having a potentially greater impact on cognitive functions modulated by mesocortical dopaminergic neurons.


We report a novel gene, designated Humanin (HN) cDNA, that suppresses neuronal cell death by K595N/M596L-APP (NL-APP), a mutant causing familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD), termed Swedish mutant. Transfection of neuronal cells with HN cDNA or treatment with the coding HN polypeptide abrogated cytotoxicity by NL-APP. HN suppressed neurotoxicity by Abeta1-43 in the absence of N2 supplement, but could not inhibit Abeta secretion from NL-APP. HN could also protect neuronal cells from death by NL-APP lacking the 41st and 42nd residues of the Abeta region. Therefore, HN suppressed neuronal cell death by NL-APP not through inhibition of Abeta42 secretion, but with two targets for its inhibitory action: (i) the intracellular toxic mechanism directly triggered by NL-APP and (ii) neurotoxicity by Abeta. HN will contribute to the development of curative therapy of AD, especially as a novel reagent that could mechanistically supplement Abeta-production inhibitors.
Improgan is the prototype drug from a new class of non-opioid analgesics chemically related to histamine and histamine antagonists, but the mechanism of action of these compounds has not been identified. Because several classes of analgesics act in the brain by reducing GABAergic inhibition of endogenous pain-relieving circuits, and because the activity of these substances is abolished by the GABA(A) agonist muscimol, the present study assessed the effects of muscimol on improgan antinociception in rats. Intracerebroventricular (icv) improgan (80 microg) and morphine (20 microg) both induced 80-100% of maximal analgesic responses on the tail flick test 10 to 30 min later. However, muscimol pretreatment (0.5 microg, icv) completely eliminated the antinociceptive activity of both compounds. Since improgan in vitro lacks activity at opioid and GABA(A) receptors, these findings: 1) confirm earlier literature showing that muscimol inhibits morphine analgesia, and 2) suggest that improgan activates a supraspinal, descending analgesic pathway, possibly via inhibition of GABAergic transmission. Since muscimol is the first compound discovered which inhibits improgan analgesia, muscimol will be a useful tool for the further characterization of this new class of pain-relieving substances.
The aim of the present study was to characterize the effects of prolonged use of peptide mu- and delta-receptor agonists [D-Ala2, N-me-phe, Gly5-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO) and [D-Pen2, D-Pen5]-enkephalin (DPDPE) and non-peptide agonists ohmefentanyl (OMF) and BW373U86 on the transcription of opioid receptors of cultured NG108-15 cell and SHSY5Y cells, respectively using the method of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). It was found that (1) The abundance of mu- and delta- receptor mRNA decreased significantly up to 48h after the administration of DAMGO and DPDPE, respectively; whereas the inhibitory effect of OMF and BW373U86 lasted only for 24h; (2) DAMGO and DPDPE produced a significant decrease of the mRNA coding for mu-receptor and delta-receptor at concentrations as low as 10(-8) mol/L and 10(-6) mol/L, respectively, whereas OMF and BW373U86 were effective at concentrations one order of magnitude higher, respectively. These results suggested that (1) Long-term administration of either peptide or non-peptide opioid agonist to cultured cell line produced a significant decrease of the gene expression of opioid receptor at transcription level. (2) The effect of peptide agonists was stronger and lasted longer than that of corresponding nonpeptide agonists.
In rats, the subcutaneous injection of a dopamine uptake inhibitor, nomifensine (40 mg/kg), induced a significant increase in the c-fos mRNA levels in the neocortex on postnatal days 23 and 49, in the striatum on days 8, 14, 23 and 49, and in the hippocampus on day 23, when compared with saline administration. The repeated injection with nomifensine (40 mg/kg once daily) from postnatal days 49 to 53 and from 23 to 27, but not from days 8 to 12 and 14 to 18, resulted in an enhanced stereotypy response elicited by a subsequent challenge of the drug (5 mg/kg) 21 days after the last injection (behavioral sensitization). The present results suggest that the neuronal circuits regulated by nomifensine might undergo regionally-different developmental changes, which could be implicated in the development of behavioral expressions including nomifensine-induced stereotypy sensitization.


High-resolution MR of the inner ear performed in 3 consecutive pediatric patients affected by distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) and progressive sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) revealed enlarged vestibular aqueducts (LVA) (bilateral in 1 case and unilateral in 2). LVA is associated to sporadic, progressive SNHL, often secondary to minor head trauma and activities involving the Valsalva maneuver. We believe that the presence of LVA may have contributed to the onset of SNHL and its progression in our patients, and therefore want to stress the importance of morphological studies of the inner ear in patients affected by dRTA and SNHL.
This study examined the relationship between cocaine withdrawal and lifetime history of depression (major depression, dysthymia). Participants with a history of regular cocaine use (n = 146) were administered the Structured Clinical Interview for the DSM-IV (SCID) and were asked to recall whether they experienced any of the six DSM-IV cocaine withdrawal symptoms. Results of bivariate analyses demonstrated that those meeting criteria for the cocaine withdrawal syndrome (dysphoria plus two or more other symptoms), in comparison to those who did not, were significantly (P&lt;.001) more likely to have a lifetime history of depression. Lifetime history of depression was also more common in those individuals reporting the withdrawal symptoms of &quot;dysphoria&quot; (P&lt;.001), &quot;insomnia/hypersomnia&quot; (P&lt;.05), &quot;vivid unpleasant dreams&quot; (P&lt;.01), and &quot;psychomotor agitation/retardation&quot; (P&lt;.01). These relationships remained significant after controlling for demographics, severity of addiction, and the presence of opiate, alcohol and cannabis dependence or abuse. The withdrawal symptoms of &quot;fatigue&quot; and &quot;increased appetite&quot; were not associated with mood history. Results suggest that lifetime history of depression is strongly related to whether or not a cocaine abuser self-reports withdrawal symptoms. Several competing hypotheses regarding the nature of this relationship are discussed.



This article represents the proceedings of a symposium at the ISBRA Meeting in Yokohama, Japan. The chairs were A. D. L and K. Kiianmaa. The presentations were (1) Alcohol reward and aversion, by C. L. Cunningham; (2) The role of sensitization of neuronal mechanisms in ethanol self-administration, by J. A. Engel, M. Ericson, and B. Sderpalm; (3) Alcohol self-administration in dependent animals: Neurobiological mechanisms, by G. F. Koob, A. J. Roberts, and F. Weiss; (4) Stress and relapse to alcohol, by A. D. L; (5) Alcohol-preferring AA and alcohol-avoiding ANA rats differ in locomotor activation induced by repeated morphine injections, by P. Hyyti, S. Janhunen, J. Mikkola, P. Bckstrm, and K. Kiianmaa; and (6) Initial sensitivity and acute functional tolerance to the hypnotic effects of ethanol in mice genetically selected for mild and severe ethanol withdrawal convulsions, by I. Ponomarev and J. C. Crabbe.

Regulation of leukocyte migration and activation by chemokines are recognized as potentially important functions in the induction of acute and chronic inflammatory reactions. Regulated upon activation normal T cell expressed and presumably secreted (RANTES), monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), and related molecules constitute the C-C class of the beta chemokine supergene family with inflammatory properties. Here we report that in experimental studies RANTES and MCP-1 provoke mast cell activation and increase histidine decarboxylase mRNA expression in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, injections of RANTES and MCP-1 in the rat skin cause mast cell, eosinophil, and macrophage recruitment, and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) generation. In a chronic inflammatory model MCP-1 was found to mediate the recruitment of mononuclear cells in calcified granulomas. In addition, MCP-1 mediated parasitic infections caused by Trichinella spiralis. In accordance with other studies, RANTES and MCP-1 were found to play an important role in the lung allergic inflammation, lung leukocyte infiltration, bronchial hyperresponsiveness, and the recruitment of eosinophils in the pathogenesis of asthma. Here for the first time we propose a new mechanism of pulmonary airway inflammation where RANTES and MCP-1 are deeply involved. We also studied the apparent role played by RANTES in the pathogenesis of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis enhancing the inflammatory response within the nervous system.

We recently reported that arachidonic acid (AA) inhibits L- and N-type Ca(2+) currents at positive test potentials in the presence of the dihydropyridine L-type Ca(2+) channel agonist (+)-202-791 in dissociated neonatal rat superior cervical ganglion neurons [Liu L and Rittenhouse AR. J Physiol (Lond) 525: 291-404, 2000]. In this first of two companion papers, we characterized the mechanism of inhibition by AA at the whole cell level. In the presence of either omega-conotoxin GVIA or nimodipine, AA decreased current amplitude, confirming that L- and N-type currents, respectively, were inhibited. AA-induced inhibition was concentration dependent and reversible with an albumin-containing wash solution, but appears independent of AA metabolism and G protein activity. In characterizing inhibition, an AA-induced enhancement of current amplitude was revealed that occurred primarily at negative test potentials. Cell dialysis with albumin minimized inhibition but had little effect on enhancement, suggesting that AA has distinct sites of action. We examined AA's actions on current kinetics and found that AA increased holding potential-dependent inactivation. AA also enhanced the rate of N-type current activation. These findings indicate that AA causes multiple changes in sympathetic Ca(2+) currents.
At standard laboratory ambient temperatures (T(a)) of 20-24 degrees C, peripheral injections of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) reliably produce fever in young rats. In contrast, old rats may show a blunted fever, no fever, or even hypothermia after LPS. In the present study we hypothesized that old rats might use behavioral thermoregulation to help them develop a fever. Young and old rats were implanted with temperature transmitters. At least 1 wk postoperatively they were placed in a thermally graded alleyway (T(a) 10-40 degrees C). On the third and sixth day they were taken out of the gradient, placed at an T(a) of 23 degrees C, injected intraperitoneally with LPS or saline, and left at 23 degrees C for 3 h. At the end of that time, all young rats had become febrile, whereas the old rats had not. When the rats were replaced in the thermal gradient, the young animals continued to develop a fever that was similar to fever in young rats left at 23 degrees C. The old animals chose significantly warmer positions in the thermal gradient than did the young animals and only then became febrile. Although there was a tendency for the young rats to prefer higher T(a) after LPS than after saline, these differences were not significant. However, the differences in the old rats were significant. These results suggest that the LPS had increased the thermal set point in the old rats, but they could develop febrile responses only at the warm T(a) they selected.


To demonstrate the kinds of data that can be obtained non-destructively and non-invasively from preserved museum specimens using modern imaging technology the head region of a whole body fetal specimen of the common dolphin, Delphinus delphis, aged 8-9 months post-conception, was scanned using Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). Series of scans were obtained in coronal, sagittal and horizontal planes. A digital three-dimensional reconstruction of the whole brain was prepared from the coronal series of scans. Sectional areas and three-dimensional volumes were obtained of the cerebral hemispheres and of the brainstem-plus-cerebellum. Neuroanatomical features identified in the scans include the major sulci of the cerebral hemispheres, well-differentiated regions of gray and white matter, the mesencephalic, pontine, and cervical flexures, the &quot;foreshortened&quot; appearance of the forebrain, and the large auditory inferior colliculi. These findings show that numerous features of the fetal common dolphin brain can be visualized and analyzed from MRI scans.

Genetic factors undoubtedly play an important role in determining vulnerability to bipolar disorder but the task of finding susceptibility genes is not trivial. Candidate gene studies, usually employing the association approach, offer the potential to discover the genes of relatively modest effect size that are expected for a complex genetic disorder. Candidate gene approaches depend crucially on our current understanding of disease pathophysiology, and attention has consequently been focussed on a limited range of neurotransmitter systems implicated by the action of drug treatments. Despite no unequivocal, consistently replicated findings, a number of intriguing results have emerged in the literature, both for bipolar disorder in general and for subtypes such as bipolar affective puerperal psychosis and rapid cycling bipolar illness. Genes of particular current interest include those encoding the serotonin transporter, monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) and catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT). As susceptibility genes are found and knowledge of aetiology advanced it is likely that many more candidate genes in novel biological systems will attract attention.
How will the social sciences take advantage of the revolution that has taken place in biology during the past two decades? Over the last fifteen years, neuroimaging has allowed the study of human cognition and emotion within psychology to achieve close alliances with biology through the development of cognitive and affective neuroscience. There is little doubt that a similar alliance between psychology and biology will occur in the domain of human brain development. In principle, understanding how the human brain is organized by experience (epigenetic rules) and how societies instruct their young could produce a link between natural and social science. The late David C. McClelland sought methods to base the social sciences on psychological ideas. McClelland sought to connect the values of achievement and power as coded from children's readers and popular ballads to societal economic growth and conflict. These efforts lacked knowledge of brain mechanisms of memory and attention and an understanding of the role of experience in organizing brain circuitry. Understanding of cognitive and brain systems related to knowledge and action may allow a new approach to forging connections between individual minds and social behavior.
For most of this past century, scholarship on the topics of personality and emotion has emerged from the humanities and social sciences. In the past decade, a remarkable change has occurred in the influence of neuroscience on the conceptualization and study of these phenomena. This article argues that the categories that have emerged from psychiatric nosology and descriptive personality theory may be inadequate, and that new categories and dimensions derived from neuroscience research may produce a more tractable parsing of this complex domain. The article concludes by noting that the discovery of these biological differences among individuals does not imply that the origins of these differences lie in heritable influences. Experiential shaping of the brain circuitry underlying emotion is powerful. The neural architecture provides the final common pathway through which culture, social factors, and genetics all operate together.
The central question of general scholarship is whether all of knowledge is intrinsically consilient, that is, whether it can be united by a continuous skein of cause-and-effect explanation and across levels of increasingly complex organization. The answer lies in the recognition that the traditional line separating the great branches of learning (natural sciences, social sciences, and humanities) is not a barrier or even a line, but rather a broad domain of poorly explored material phenomena now being cooperatively entered from all sides. The key to bridge-building is the discovery and analysis of human nature, which consists of the epigenetic rules--the hereditary regularities in mental development. Their study is now well under way, at the biological, social science, and humanities levels. Examples of epigenetic rules include the origin of color vocabularies, incest avoidance, optimum arousal in artistic design, and response to the natural environment. The convergence of the great branches of learning is mostly an empirical process, light on formal logic and theory in its initial stages. The value of the consilience program is that at long last we appear to have acquired the means either to establish the intrinsic truth of the fundamental unity of knowledge, or to discard it. I will argue the likelihood of its existence and early establishment.
The nucleoside adenosine has been shown to control the production of proinflammatory molecules through its actions on cell surface purine receptors. Previously, we have reported that the adenosine A1 receptor (A1AR) regulates tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) expression and exhibits diminished function in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS; Mayne et al., Ann Neurol 1999;45:633-639). In the present study, A1AR expression in both brain and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from MS and control groups was characterized by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and immunohistochemical analyses. FACS analyses of PBMC revealed that A1AR expression was chiefly detectable on CD14-positive cells and was reduced by 53.1% (p &lt; 0.01) in MS patients compared to controls. A1AR mRNA levels were reduced by 43.1% (p &lt; 0.001) in the brains of MS patients compared to patients with other neurological diseases and controls. A1AR protein expression in brain was detected primarily in CD45-positive glial cells and was markedly diminished in MS patients. The analysis of A1AR transcripts in the brain revealed that the A1AR-beta transcript was diminished (49.2%) in MS patients compared to controls (p &lt; 0.002). These results indicate that the A1AR, expressed principally on cells of monocyte/macrophage lineage in both brain and blood, is selectively diminished in MS patients. Reduction of the A1AR-beta transcript in MS patients suggests that dysregulated splicing may influence A1AR protein levels, potentially leading to increased macrophage activation and central nervous system inflammation.

The relationship between tinnitus and psychiatric disorders has long been recognised. We have addressed this question by investigating the prevalence of psychiatric diagnosis in a consecutive series of tinnitus patients (n=82) without severe socially disabling hearing loss referred to an audiological clinic. The psychiatric evaluation was based on a standardised diagnostic interview (SCID-P) in accordance with the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of mental disorders (DSM-III-R) and on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD Scale). An experienced psychiatrist performed the interview 24 months after the patient's first visit to the clinic. Lifetime depressive and anxiety disorders were recorded in 62 per cent and 45 per cent of the cases respectively, but only 34 per cent had had contact with any healthcare institution for emotional disturbances. Only 7 per cent reported that they had tinnitus prior to their depressive and/or anxiety disorders. We conclude that it is of great importance to identify these emotional disturbances in patients suffering from tinnitus.
Primary intraosseous meningiomas of the skull base are rare. Extensive involvement of the skull base by the tumour may result rarely in loss of vision. Surgical management requires extensive decompression and reconstruction. A case of primary intraosseous meningioma of orbits and anterior cranial fossa presenting with painless proptosis and loss of vision is presented here and the literature reviewed.
Non-selective opioid receptor antagonists are increasingly used in the treatment of alcohol dependence. The clinical effects are significant but the effect size is rather small and unpleasant side effects may limit the benefits of the compounds. Ligands acting at mu- and/or delta- receptors can alter the voluntary intake of ethanol in various animal models. Therefore, the attenuating effects of selective opioid receptor ligands on ethanol intake may be of clinical interest in the treatment of alcoholism. The objective of this study was to examine the effects of a selective kappa-receptor agonist, U50,488H on voluntary ethanol intake in the rat. We used a restricted access model with a free choice between an ethanol solution (10% v/v) and water. During the 3-days baseline period, the rats received a daily saline injection (1 ml/kg, i.p.) 15 min before the 2 h access to ethanol. The animals had free access to water at all times. The control group received a daily saline injection during the 4-days treatment-period, whereas the treatment groups received a daily dose of U50,488H (2.5, 5.0 or 10 mg/kg per day). Animals treated with U50,488H dose-dependently decreased their ethanol intake. The effect of the highest dose of U50,488H was reduced by pre-treatment with the selective kappa-antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI). These results demonstrate that activation of kappa-opioid receptors can attenuate voluntary ethanol intake in the rat, and the data suggest that the brain dynorphin/kappa-receptor systems may represent a novel target for pharmacotherapy in the treatment of alcohol dependence.
Research in education, psychology, and neuroscience motivates a hypothesis that learning takes time. Support for the hypothesis was found in four replications of an upper level undergraduate course in which the material and activities for 50% of the topics were delivered over the World-Wide Web. Computer records were correlated with three types of test questions: multiple-choice, short-answer, and open-ended essay questions. Positive and significant correlations with time were observed for 33% of the correlations involving multiple-choice questions, 13% of those involving short-answer questions, and 60% of those involving open-ended essay questions. An estimate of the common underlying correlation, rho, equal to .35 for the four replications was significant. The data also revealed generally low overall study times and a maladaptive pattern of &quot;cramming&quot; before tests instead of distributing practice. In the Discussion section, we argue that computer study times can be used as a predictor of subsequent test performance, which is a measure of student learning.
This article investigates the neural mechanisms underlying salamander locomotion, and develops a biologically plausible connectionist model of a central pattern generator capable of producing the typical aquatic and terrestrial gaits of the salamander. It investigates, in particular, what type of neural circuitry can produce and modulate the two locomotor programs identified within the salamander's spinal cord; namely, a traveling wave of neural activity for swimming and a standing wave for trotting. A two-dimensional biomechanical simulation of the salamander's body is developed whose muscle contraction is determined by the locomotion controller simulated as a leaky-integrator neural network. While the connectivity of the neural circuitry underlying locomotion in the salamander has not been decoded for the moment, this article presents the design of a neural circuit that has a general organization corresponding to that hypothesized by neurobiologists. In particular, the locomotion controller is based on a body central pattern generator (CPG) corresponding to a lamprey-like swimming controller, and is extended with a limb CPG for controlling the salamander's limbs. The complete controller is developed in three stages: first the development of segmental oscillators, second the development of intersegmental coupling for the making of a lamprey-like swimming CPG, and finally the development of the limb CPG and its coupling to the body CPG. A genetic algorithm is used to determine the parameters of the neural circuit for the different stages, given a high-level description of the desired state space trajectories of the different subnetworks. A controller is thus developed that can produce neural activities and locomotion gaits very similar to those observed in the real salamander. By varying the tonic (i.e. non-oscillating) excitation applied to the network, the speed, direction and type of gait can be varied.

In quantum theory, nothing that is observable, be it physical, chemical, or biological, is separable from the observer. Furthermore, &quot;. all possible knowledge concerning that object is given by its wave function&quot; (Wigner, E. 1967. Symmetries and Reflections. Indiana University Press, Bloomington, IN), which can only describe probabilities of future events. In physical systems, quantum mechanical probabilistic events that are microscopic must, in turn, account for macroscopic events that are associated with a greater degree of certainty. In biological systems, probabilistic statistical mechanical events, such as secretion of microscopic synaptic vesicles, must account for macroscopic postsynaptic potentials; probabilistic single-channel events sum to produce a macroscopic ionic current across a cell membrane; and bleaching of rhodopsin molecules (responsible for quantal potential &quot;bumps&quot;) produces a photoreceptor generator potential. Among physical systems, a paradigmatic example of how quantum theory applies to the observation of events concerns the interactions of particles (e.g., photons, electrons) with the two-slit apparatus to generate an interference pattern from a single common light source. For two-slit systems that use two independent laser sources with brief (&lt;1 ms) intervals of mutual coherence (Paul, H. 1986. Rev. Modern Phys. 58:209-231), each photon has been considered to arise from both beams and has a probability amplitude to pass through each of the two slits. Here, a single laser source two-slit interference system was constructed so that each photon has a probability amplitude to pass through only one or the other, but not both slits. Furthermore, all photons passing through one slit could be distinguished from all photons passing through the other slit before their passage. This &quot;either-or&quot; system produced a stable interference pattern indistinguishable from the interference produced when both slits were accessible to each photon. Because this system excludes the interaction of one photon with both slits, phase correlation of photon movements derives from the &quot;entanglement&quot; of all photon wave functions due to their dependence on a common laser source. Because a laser source (as well as Young's original point source) will have stable time-averaged spatial coherence even at low intensities, the &quot;either-or&quot; two-slit interference can result from distinct individual photons passing one at a time through one or the other slit-rather than wave-like behavior of individual photons. In this manner, single, successive photons passing through separate slits will assemble over time in phase-correlated wave distributions that converge in regions of low and high probability.

1. A study was made of the regulation of [(3)H]-gamma-aminobutyric acid ([(3)H]-GABA) release from slices of rat striatum by endogenous dopamine and exogenous histamine and a histamine H(3)-agonist. Depolarization-induced release of [(3)H]-GABA was Ca(2+)-dependent and was increased in the presence of the dopamine D(2) receptor family antagonist, sulpiride (10 microM). The sulpiride-potentiated release of [(3)H]-GABA was strongly inhibited by the dopamine D(1) receptor family antagonist, SCH 23390 (1 microM). Neither antagonist altered basal release. 2. The 15 mM K(+)-induced release of [(3)H]-GABA in the presence of sulpiride was inhibited by 100 microM histamine (mean inhibition 78+/-3%) and by the histamine H(3) receptor-selective agonist, immepip, 1 microM (mean inhibition 81+/-5%). The IC(50) values for histamine and immepip were 1.3+/-0.2 microM and 16+/-2 nM, respectively. The inhibitory effects of histamine and immepip were reversed by the H(3) receptor antagonist, thioperamide, 1 microM. 3. The inhibition of 15 mM K(+)-induced [(3)H]-GABA release by immepip was reversed by the H(3) receptor antagonist, clobenpropit, K(d) 0.11+/-0.04 nM. Clobenpropit alone had no effect on basal or stimulated release of [(3)H]-GABA. 4. Elevated K(+) caused little release of [(3)H]-GABA from striatal slices from reserpinized rats, unless the D(1) partial agonist, R(+)-SKF 38393, 1 microM, was also present. The stimulated release in the presence of SKF 38393 was reduced by 1 microM immepip to the level obtained in the absence of SKF 38393. 5. These observations demonstrate that histamine H(3) receptor activation strongly inhibits the dopamine D(1) receptor-dependent release of [(3)H]-GABA from rat striatum; primarily through an interaction at the terminals of GABA neurones.

Recent case reports of individuals with early-onset damage to the prefrontal cortex have suggested that such early insults could result in severely impaired social behaviour in later childhood and adolescence. The investigators speculated that the acquisition of complex social conventions and moral rules had been impaired. In a large cohort of children, we sought to determine whether early focal brain insults might result in clinically significant behavioural or emotional problems. This study reports on 39 children with pre- or perinatal-onset unilateral brain damage (focal lesion) from cerebral infarction or intraparenchymal haemorrhage, using the Achenbach Child Behavior Checklist to assess the presence or absence of behavioural and emotional difficulties. Two-thirds of the subjects had left hemisphere (LH) lesions and one-third had right hemisphere (RH) lesions. Age range was 4.0-15.4 years at the time of questionnaire completion. Their results were compared with those of 54 control children. Analyses were conducted on focal lesion versus controls, RH versus LH lesion, frontal versus non-frontal lesion, and seizure versus non-seizure groups. When the effect of IQ was partialled out, there were no significant differences on the nine Behavior Problem scales, the Internalizing-Externalizing dichotomy or the Total Problem score for any of the group comparisons. Our subjects showed no evidence of clinically significant behavioural or emotional problems, even when the frontal lobe was involved. Individuals with more extensive and bilateral damage may be at higher risk of significant behavioural and emotional dysfunction than were those in our study population. In future studies of brain-behaviour relationships in developing children, all potential causes for any observed behavioural abnormalities, such as genetic and environmental factors and toxin exposure, must be considered before concluding that specific anatomical lesions are causally related to specific behavioural outcomes.
Visual neglect of left space following right parietal damage in humans involves a lateral bias in attention, apparent in many search tasks. We hypothesized that parietal neglect may also involve a failure to remember which locations have already been examined during visual search: an impairment in retaining searched locations across saccades. Using a new paradigm, we monitored gaze during search, while simultaneously probing whether observers judged they had found a new target, or judged instead that they were re-fixating a previously examined target. A patient with left neglect following focal right parietal infarction repeatedly re-fixated right locations. Critically, he often failed to remember that these locations had already been searched, treating old targets as new discoveries at an abnormal rate. In comparison, healthy age-matched control subjects rarely re-fixated targets, and mistook old targets as new targets even more rarely. The frequency of such mistakes in the parietal patient, for different conditions, correlated with the severity of his neglect. Control experiments indicated no perceptual localization deficit in non-search tasks. These results suggest a deficit in retaining searched locations across saccades in parietal neglect, in addition to the lateral spatial bias. Moreover, the former deficit exacerbates the latter, such that patients do not realize that the rightward locations favoured by their bias have already been examined during previous fixations and, for this reason, they saccade back to them repeatedly. The combination of the two deficits (a lateral bias plus a deficit in retaining locations already searched) may thus explain the pathological pattern of search that characterizes parietal neglect: why stimuli on the right are re-examined recursively, as if being searched for the first time, and hence why stimuli on the left continue to be ignored even with unlimited viewing time. These proposals accord with recent electrophysiological and functional imaging data, demonstrating posterior parietal involvement in the retention of target locations across saccades.
Dominant and subordinate males produce neuroendocrine stress responses during aggressive social interaction. In addition, stress responsiveness has both acute and chronic temporal components. A neurochemical marker that distinguishes social status and aggression by temporal and regional differentiation is the activity of serotonergic nuclei and terminals. A unique model for distinguishing the relationships among the neuroendocrine machinery of stress, social status and behavior is the lizard Anolis carolinensis. Dominant males exhibit more aggression and have temporally advanced serotonergic responses. Chronic serotonergic activity is associated with subordinate social status and reduced aggression. Acute and chronic serotonergic responses occur in both dominant and subordinate males, and are distinguished temporally. This provides a fundamental question that may elucidate basic differences in behavior: What causes temporally advanced serotonergic activity in response to stress in dominant males? Secondarily, what is the neural basis for the acute and chronic responses? The neural mechanisms for transduction of the relevant behavioral signals are very plastic. Behavioral experience and visual stimuli can produce very rapid responses. Faster and greater responsiveness may be stimulated by restraint stress, social stress and the absence of social sign stimuli (e.g. eyespots of the lizard Anolis carolinensis). Stress response machinery provides regulatory factors necessary to modify social behavior, and to adapt it for specific contexts. Serotonergic activity is rapidly modified by glucocorticoids and GABA, and also by CRF under conditions of previous stress or in combination with AVP. Advancing acute elevation of serotonergic activity may be a distinguishing characteristic of dominant males. Social events add contextual conditioning to brain transmitter activity, with social information processed in a distributed fashion. Medial amygdala manifests delayed serotonergic response compared to hippocampus and nucleus accumbens, and is therefore a good candidate to mediate chronic stress responsiveness. Limiting or delaying acute effects, in addition to chronic serotonergic activity, may be the distinguishing characteristics of subordinate males. Monoamines, glucocorticoids, testosterone, CRF, AVP, AVT, play neuromodulatory roles producing context appropriate behavior.
This review summarizes a set of experimental approaches with which we explore fighting behavior in crayfish and the importance of aminergic systems in its control. Our results illustrate that agonistic behavior in crustaceans can be characterized within a quantitative framework, that different types of behavioral plasticity in aggressive behavior are in need of physiological explanation, and that pharmacological intervention involving serotonergic systems produces characteristic changes in fighting. Moreover, we attempt to identify changes in neurochemistry during the acquisition of social status. Many of the studies presented here summarize ongoing work. Nonetheless, results to date complement and extend previous detailed physiological, morphological and biochemical studies exploring the roles of amines in aggression.

This study uses data from the Ontario Health Survey to examine within-family influences (sibship number, age and sex composition; family structure and parental substance use) on the use of tobacco, alcohol and marijuana in households (N = 4,643) among offspring aged 12 to 24 years. Using a modification of the kappa statistic, concordance among siblings is modest generally and undifferentiated across substance type. Concordance is stronger among sibships that are either all male or older (19-24 years) and is particularly strong for siblings &lt; or = two years apart in age. The dominant influence of substance use behaviour appears to be from older siblings to younger siblings and not from parents to offspring. Sibling concordance for substance use suggests that the treatment and prevention of substance use (and abuse) among adolescents and young adults might be enhanced by including a family focus, especially where there are two or more siblings at home.
Lack of p53 or mismatch repair (MR) function and scarce cell proliferation are commonly associated with tumor cell resistance to antineoplastic agents. Recently, inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) has been considered as a tool to overcome resistance of MR-deficient tumors to methylating agents. In the present study we demonstrated that infection with p53 expressing adenovirus (Ad-p53), enhances chemosensitivity of MR-deficient tumor cell lines to the methylating agent temozolomide (TZM), either used as single agent or, more efficiently, when combined with PARP inhibitor. Moreover, the association of Ad-p53 with drug treatment induced a more pronounced growth inhibitory effect than that provoked by Ad-p53 infection only. Cells, growth arrested by p53 transduction, and then subsequently exposed to the drugs, were still highly susceptible to cytotoxicity induced by TZM and PARP inhibitor. The results suggested that this drug combination might be effective even in non-proliferating tumor cells. It is conceivable to envisage future possible strategies to enhance cytostatic or cytotoxic effects induced by Ad-p53, based on the use of TZM, alone or combined with PARP inhibitor for the therapy of resistant tumors.
The pathways involved in neuronal survival or death have been extensively studied mainly in cell lines. Recent evidence has suggested that activation of the stress activated pathways, jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 may play important roles in neuronal cell death or regeneration. In this review we will discuss these pahtways in detail. We will examine the evidence that these pathways are important in neuronal cell death. Finally we will review the evidence that inhibitors of these pathways have a neuroprotective effect both in vitro and in vivo.
The interactions between N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and D(1) dopamine receptors in the rat prefrontal cortex were examined using whole-cell recordings from pyramidal neurons. The effects of NMDA, the D(1) agonist SKF38393, or both compounds combined were tested on measures of cell excitability. Both NMDA (10-100 microM) and SKF38393 (5-10 microM) independently increased the number of spikes and decreased the latency of the first spike evoked by intracellular depolarizing current pulses. Combining low doses of NMDA (5 microM) and SKF38393 (2 microM) resulted in a marked increase of cell excitability. This synergism was blocked by SCH23390, protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitors, and the Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA, and reduced by nifedipine. These results indicate the presence of a dopamine- glutamate interaction in the prefrontal cortex at the postsynaptic level, by which D(1) dopamine receptors may maintain NMDA- mediated responses in prefrontal cortical pyramidal neurons through both a PKA-dependent pathway and Ca(2+)-dependent mechanisms.
In order to investigate whether and how medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of the rat is involved in processing of information related to fear conditioning, we recorded from single units in the prelimbic and infralimbic cortex of fear-conditioned rats in response to an explicit conditional stimulus (CS; an auditory tone) or contextual cues (conditioning box). The majority of units changed their activities significantly in response to the CS in a delay or trace conditioning paradigm. Both transient and tonic activity changes, including delay cell activity, were observed as in other behavioral tasks. When exposed to the context without CS delivery, most units changed their activities as well. These results show that both tone and contextual information are processed in the rat mPFC in expectation of the delivery of an aversive stimulus (electric foot shock). Interestingly, fast spiking cells (putative inhibitory interneurons) and regular spiking cells (putative projection neurons) showed different patterns of responses. Fast spiking cells tended to show transient responses and increased their firing rates following CS presentation, whereas a complementary pattern was observed in the regular spiking cells. Our results enhance our understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying prediction of an aversive stimulus in the mPFC.
The Nobel Assembly awarded The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for 2000 jointly to Arvid Carlsson, Paul Greengard and Eric Kandel for their discoveries concerning signal transduction in the nervous system. On the examples of their predecessors we attempted to demonstrate how results of basic research serve as building blocks for new discoveries and for the application of research results into the praxis. We presented not only the basic discoveries of laureates of Nobel Prize for year 2000 (biological role of dopamine, regulation of cell functions by phosphorylation of proteins, changes in transduction of signals during processes of memory), but we also mentioned previous discoveries that helped in the research of the last laureates. These discoveries concerned not only the storage and metabolism of transmitters, formulation of the concept of cyclic AMP as a second messenger of hormonal action, the role of G-proteins in transduction processes in receptor-effector complexes, processes of phosphorylation of proteins as regulators of cell functions, but we also mentioned the discovery of other second messengers and substances functioning as local hormones (prostaglandins and related compounds). Most of the described discoveries have not only the value as stones that can help to fill still incomplete mosaic of our present knowledge, but they also represent the immediate basis for the development and use of very important remedies, such as are antiparkinsonics, antidepressive drugs, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, etc.
Using simple successive tasks we assessed the influence of Alzheimer's disease on the processing of different odours. Fifteen patients with Alzheimer's disease, 15 old control subjects and 15 young control subjects were tested. The experiment included two sessions. Initially 12 odorants were presented, one odorant every minute. For each odour the subjects were asked to rate intensity, pleasantness, familiarity and edibility using linear rating scales. The odorants were then presented a second time and the subjects were asked to identify them. The results show that the intensity scores were lower in old control subjects and Alzheimer patients than in the young control subjects and that familiarity and identification scores were lower in Alzheimer patients than in old control and young control subjects. When we compared the five olfactory tasks the impairment of performance in Alzheimer patients was relatively higher for identification than familiarity, itself higher than the intensity judgement. No difference was observed between the three groups of subjects for pleasantness and edibility judgements.
Before the discovery of the myotonic dystrophy (DM) gene, the DM epidemiological rates could not be accurately estimated. The aim of this study was to calculate the DM prevalence rates in Padova (North-East Italy) and in four provinces of North-West Tuscany (Central Italy) and, as of 30 June 1999, to do so using molecular genetic testing. A minimum prevalence rate of 9.31x10(-5) inhabitants was found, consistent with epidemiological rates worldwide, and more than two times as high as those of two previous studies conducted in the same areas during the era prior to molecular genetic testing. This study, the first in Italy since the discovery of the DM gene, underlines the importance of direct genetic diagnosis of DM, especially in detecting mildly affected patients, a fundamental step in correctly estimating the risk of disease transmission in affected families.
An explosion of scientific and clinical knowledge about Alzheimer's disease now provides a basis for selecting targets for treatment aimed at slowing progression of dementia or delaying the onset of or preventing Alzheimer's disease. The rationale that underlies several promising approaches to treatment are reviewed. Novel forms of treatment are most effective when combined with sensitive clinical methods to diagnose Alzheimer's disease as early as possible and to track its progression over time. Therefore, this article highlights findings concerning biological markers for Alzheimer's disease and the mild cognitive impairment syndrome and attempts to define a prodromal stage of Alzheimer's disease.
Cognitive screening and detailed neuropsychological assessment provide a reliable means of detecting dementia in its earliest stages, tracking the progression of cognitive decline over time, and aiding in the differential diagnosis of various dementing disorders. In addition, recent studies have shown that mild cognitive changes, and particularly declines in memory function, are evident in the &quot;preclinical&quot; phase of Alzheimer's disease and may help to identify elderly individuals who are likely to develop dementia in the near future. Until effective and easily obtainable biological markers for detecting the onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease are developed, neuropsychological assessment will continue to have an important role in the dementia evaluation.
Dissociation of the polyethylene liner from its metal shell has been reported as a rare occurrence. During a 4-year period, six hips in five patients who had the Harris-Galante II porous acetabular component implanted as part of a primary or revision total hip arthroplasty presented with acute onset of pain and difficulty ambulating more than 2 years after surgery (range, 27-103 months). Radiographic evaluation revealed an eccentrically placed femoral head within the acetabular component. In patients whose acetabular shells were well-fixed, a polyethylene liner was cemented into the acetabular shell (four hips in three patients), and in one patient (one hip), the acetabular component was revised because of fracture of the metal shell. One patient who had a radiographically well-fixed component refused surgery (one hip). During a 4-year period, from 1990 to 1994, this implant was used resulting in a 2.6% incidence of dissociation. This case series is the largest of this complication for one prosthetic design.
Unraveling the significant complexity of brain-immune interactions could provide essential new insights and potential treatment considerations for the clinical neurosciences. Despite considerable research relating immunological changes to major neuropsychiatric disorders, it has been difficult to establish that immunological processes are involved in the development of central nervous system pathology associated with these disorders. This brief article highlights some of the landmark basic studies and seeks to convey essential principles guiding research in brain-immune interactions. Research in this area often incorporates several disciplines, ranging from psychology and neuroscience to immunology and molecular genetics. The clinical implications of this area of research are discussed, with emphasis on the challenge of disentangling pathogenic factors and valid markers of disease from epiphenomena.

Phage display is a technique that involves the coupling of phenotype to genotype in a selectable format. It has been extensively used in molecular biology to study protein-protein interactions, receptor and antibody binding sites, and immune responses; to modify protein properties; and to select antibodies against a wide range of different antigens. In the format most often used, a polypeptide is displayed on the surface of a filamentous phage by genetic fusion to one of the coat proteins, creating a chimeric coat protein. As the gene encoding the chimeric coat protein is packaged within the phage, selection of the phage on the basis of the binding properties of the polypeptide displayed on the surface simultaneously results in the isolation of the gene encoding the polypeptide. This unit describes the background of the technique and illustrates how it has been applied to a number of different problems, each of which has its neurobiological counterparts.
This appendix unit lists standard pieces of equipment for the modern neuroscience laboratory. More specialized equipment is also itemized in the materials list of each protocol throughout the series. In the individual materials lists no attempt has been made to list all items required for each procedure, but only those items that might not be readily available in the laboratory or that require special preparation.
Reduction of glucose metabolism in the occipital lobe is reported in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Parkinson's disease. If dysfunction of the nigrostriatal system is responsible for occipital hypometabolism, (1) DLB patients with parkinsonism would show a lower occipital metabolism than do patients without parkinsonism, and (2) DLB patients without parkinsonism would show an occipital metabolism comparable to those of normal subjects and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). To examine these hypotheses, we studied the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) in patients with a clinical diagnosis of DLB or AD, using (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography. The subjects consisted of 15 DLB patients with parkinsonism, 7 DLB patients without parkinsonism and 7 AD patients without parkinsonism. The medial and lateral occipital rCMRglc was significantly lower in the DLB patients without parkinsonism than in the AD patients. There were no significant differences in occipital metabolic rates between the DLB groups with and without parkinsonism. DLB patients without parkinsonism showed a significant reduction of occipital glucose metabolism which is comparable with that of DLB patients with parkinsonism. The neurobiological bases of occipital hypometabolism in DLB may be pathological processes in the brainstem or basal forebrain structures other than the nigrostriatal system.
The Notch3 gene has been recently identified as a causative gene for cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL). To investigate the genetic contribution of Notch mutations in familial cases with vascular leukoencephalopathy, we screened 13 patients from 11 unrelated families, which were selected on the basis of magnetic resonance imaging findings and positive family history. We identified three different missense mutations in 5 patients from 4 families. Two (Arg90Cys and Arg133Cys) are the same as previously reported in Caucasian patients, the other (Cys174Phe) is a novel mutation causing a loss of a cysteine in epidermal-growth-factor-like repeats of Notch3. These data indicate that the CADASIL Notch3 mutations were found in approximately 35% of familial cases with leukoencephalopathy, suggesting genetic heterogeneity of the disease.
This study investigated the relation between sensory visual problems and the severity of visuospatial difficulties in a large group of young children with Williams' syndrome (WS). A questionnaire describing visual and associated problems was completed by the families of 108 children with WS and detailed follow-up assessments were conducted, including visual, spatial, motor, visuocognitive, and linguistic tests of 73 of these children (mean age 7 years 3 months; 40 males, 73 females). Children with WS showed a much higher incidence of common paediatric sensory vision problems (strabismus, visual acuity loss, amblyopia, reduced stereopsis) than normally developing children. It was found that delays with respect to age normative values increased with age on all tests. No significant correlation was found between the presence of a visual deficit and the severity of the visuospatial problems, suggesting that the difficulties children with WS have in understanding spatial arrangements are not simply a result of their earlier sensory visual problems. Results confirm the dissociation between visuospatial and language abilities in children with WS, and support the neurobiological model of a split between ventral and dorsal stream processing of visual information with a generalized deficit in dorsal stream processing in young children with WS.

A zebrafish sodium channel cDNA encoding a 1949-amino acid polypeptide, Na(v)1.6, was isolated. Two transcripts were detected in zebrafish adult brain but not in cardiac or skeletal muscle. The RNase protection analysis confirmed the neural specificity of zebrafish Na(v)1.6 24 hours postfertilization (hpf) Na(v)1.6 was expressed in the trigeminal ganglion, anterior and posterior lateral line ganglia, rhombomeres, and Rohon-Beard neurons. This preferential localization suggests that Na(v)1.6 plays an important role in tactile sensitivity. The abundance of zebrafish Na(v) 1.6 mRNA in the central and peripheral nervous systems increased markedly between 48 and 72 hpf, during the maturation of the nervous system.

This paper describes the relation between genes at the molecular level and the brain at the organ level, and biological, social and environmental factors. The malleability of the brain and the effect of external factors and experience on influencing gene expression and brain structure and function are discussed.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) was isolated from human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from control individuals and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purification was performed with preparative two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE), involving liquid-phase isoelectric focusing (IEF) in the Rotofor cell in combination with sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and electroelution in the Mini Whole Gel Eluter. ApoE was characterized by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) analysis of tryptic digests. The known change of Cys to Arg in position 112 of the apoE4 isoform was identified. This was detected in CSF from AD patients, reflecting the increased frequency of the apoE4 allele in this population. This peptide was not detected in CSF samples from healty control individuals. The use of this rapid electrophoretic separation in proteomic studies of CSF proteins provides single proteins, such as apoE, of high purity in yields sufficient for characterization by MALDI-TOF-MS. Characterization of proteins and their modifications (amino acid substitutions, glycosylation or phosphorylation) in CSF will be a useful tool in the investigation of the pathophysiology of brain disorders such as AD.
For the last thirty years, progress in the field of physics, known as &quot;Chaos theory&quot;--or more precisely: non-linear dynamical systems theory--has increased our understanding of complex systems dynamics. This framework's formalism is general enough to be applied in other domains, such as biology or psychology, where complex systems are the rule rather than the exception. Our goal is to show here that this framework can become a valuable tool in scientific fields such as neuroscience and psychiatry where objects possess natural time dependency (i.e. dynamical properties) and non-linear characteristics. The application of non-linear dynamics concepts on these topics is more precise than a loose metaphor and can throw a new light on mental functioning and dysfunctioning. A class of neural networks (recurrent neural networks) constitutes an example of the implementation of the dynamical system concept and provides models of cognitive processes (15). The state of activity of the network is represented in its state space and the time evolution of this state is a trajectory in this space. After a period of time those networks settle on an equilibrium (a kind of attractor). The strength of connections between neurons define the number and relations between those attractors. The attractors of the network are usually interpreted as &quot;mental representations&quot;. When an initial condition is imposed to the network, the evolution towards an attractor is considered as a model of information processing (27). This information processing is not defined in a symbolic manner but is a result of the interaction between distributed elements. Several properties of dynamical models can be used to define a way where the symbolic properties emerge from physical and dynamical properties (28) and thus they can be candidates for the definition of the emergence of mental properties on the basis of neuronal dynamics (42). Nevertheless, mental properties can also be considered as the result of an underlying dynamics without explicit mention of the neuronal one (47). In that case, dynamical tools can be used to elucidate the Freudian psychodynamics (34, 35). Recurrent neuronal networks have been used to propose interpretation of several mental dysfunctions (12). For example in the case of schizophrenia, it has been proposed that troubles in the cortical pruning during development (13) may cause a decrease in neural network storage ability and lead to the creation of spurious attractors. Those attractors do not correspond to stored memories and attract a large amount of initial conditions: they were thus associated to reality distorsion observed in schizophrenia (14). Nevertheless, the behavior of these models are too simple to be directly compared with real physiological data. In fact, equilibrium attractors are hardly met in biological dynamics. More complex behaviors (such as oscillations or chaos) should thus to be taken into account. The study of chaotic behavior have lead to the development of numerical methods devoted to the analysis of complex time series (17). These methods may be used to characterise the dynamical processes at the time-scales of both the cerebral dynamics and the clinical symptoms variations. The application of these methods to physiological signals have shown that complex behaviors are related to healthy states whereas simple dynamics are related to pathology (8). These studies have thus confirmed the notion of &quot;dynamical disease&quot; (20, 21) which denotes pathological conditions characterised by changes in physiological rhythms. Depression has been studied within this framework (25, 32) in order to define possible changes in brain electrical rhythms related to this trouble and its evolution. It has been shown that controls' brain dynamics is more complex than depressive one and that the recovery of a complex brain activity depends on the number of previous episodes. In the case of the symptoms time evolution, several studies have demonstrated that non-linear dynamical process may be involved in the recurrence of symptoms in troubles such as manic-depressive illness (9) or schizophrenia (51). These observations can contribute to more parcimonious interpretation of the time course of these illnesses than usual theories. In the search of a relationship between brain dynamics and mental troubles, it has been shown in three depressed patients an important correlation between the characteristics of brain dynamics and the intensity of depressive mood (49). This preliminary observation is in accordance with the emergence hypothesis according which changes in neuronal dynamics should be related to changes in mental processes. We reviewed here some theoretical and experimental results related to the use of &quot;physical&quot; dynamical theory in the field of psychopathology. It has been argued that these applications go beyond metaphor and that they are empirically founded. Nevertheless, these studies only constitute first steps on the way of a cautious development and definition of a &quot;dynamical paradigm&quot; in psychopathology. The introduction of concepts from dynamics such as complexity and dynamical changes (i.e. bifurcations) permits a new perspective on function and dysfunction of the mind/brain and the time evolution of symptoms. Moreover, it offers a ground for the hypothesis of the emergence of mental properties on the basis of neuronal dynamics (42). Since this theory can help to throw light on classical problems in psychopathology, we consider that a precise examination of both its theoretical and empirical consequences is requested to define its validity on this topic.
Gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter controlling LH-releasing hormone (LHRH) secretion in the mammalian hypothalamus. Whether alterations in GABA homeostasis within discrete regions of the neuroendocrine brain known to be targets of GABA action, such as the median eminence, can disrupt the ability of the LHRH releasing system to maintain reproductive cyclicity is not known but amenable to experimental scrutiny. The present experiments were undertaken to examine this issue. Immortalized BAS-8.1 astroglial cells were genetically modified by infection with a regulatable retroviral vector to express the gene encoding the GABA synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase-67 (GAD-67) under the control of a tetracycline (tet) controlled gene expression system. In this system, expression of the gene of interest is repressed by tet and activated in the absence of the antibiotic. BAS-8.1 cells carrying this regulatory cassette, and cultured in the absence of tet (&quot;GAD on&quot;), expressed abundant levels of GAD-67 messenger RNA and GAD enzymatic activity, and released GABA when challenged with glutamate. All of these responses were inhibited within 24 h of exposure to tet (&quot;GAD off&quot;). Grafting &quot;GAD on&quot; cells into the median eminence of late juvenile female rats, near LHRH nerve terminals, did not affect the age at vaginal opening, but greatly disrupted subsequent estrous cyclicity. These animals exhibiting long periods of persistent estrus, interrupted by occasional days in proestrus and diestrus, suggesting the occurrence of irregular ovulatory episodes. Administration of the tetracycline analog doxycycline (DOXY) in the drinking water inhibited GAD-67synthesis and restored estrous cyclicity to a pattern indistinguishable from that of control rats grafted with native BAS-8.1 cells. Animals carrying &quot;GAD on&quot; cells showed a small increase in serum LH and estradiol levels, and a marked elevation in serum androstenedione, all of which were obliterated by turning GAD-67 synthesis off in the grafted cells. Morphometric analysis of the ovaries revealed that both groups grafted with GABA-producing cells had an increased incidence of large antral follicles (&gt;500 micrometer) compared with animals grafted with native BAS-8.1 cells, but that within this category the incidence of steroidogenically more active follicles (i.e. larger than 600 micrometer) was greater in &quot;GAD on&quot; than in &quot;GAD off&quot; rats. These results indicate that a regionally discrete, temporally controlled increase in GABA availability to LHRH nerve terminals in the median eminence of the hypothalamus suffices to disrupt estrous cyclicity in the rat, and raise the possibility that similar local alterations in GABA homeostasis may contribute to the pathology of hypothalamic amenorrhea/oligomenorrhea in humans.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) epitomizes a family of proteins known as the neurotrophins (NTs), which are required for the survival and differentiation of neurons within both the central and peripheral nervous system. Synthesis of NGF in tissues innervated by the peripheral nervous system is consistent with its function as a target-derived trophic factor. However, the presence of low- and high-affinity NGF receptors in the gonads suggests another function for the NTs within the reproductive endocrine system. We now report that NGF is required for the growth of primordial ovarian follicles, a process known to occur independently of pituitary gonadotropins. Both the NT receptor p75(NTR) and the NGF tyrosine kinase receptor trkA were found to be expressed in the ovaries of infantile normal mice and mice carrying a null mutation of the NGF gene. The ovaries from homozygote NGF-null (-/-) mutant animals, analyzed after completion of ovarian histogenesis, exhibited a markedly reduced population of primary and secondary follicles in the presence of normal serum gonadotropin levels, and an increased number of oocytes that failed to be incorporated into a follicular structure. Assessment of mitogenic activity using two complementary proliferation markers revealed a conspicuous reduction in somatic cell proliferation in the ovaries of NGF-deficient mice. These results suggest that the delay in follicular growth observed in NGF(-/-) mice may be related to the loss of a proliferative signal provided by NGF to the nonneural endocrine component of the ovary.
In mammals, the brain-specific protein munc18-1 regulates synaptic vesicle exocytosis at the synaptic junction, in a step before vesicle fusion. We hypothesize that the rate of biosynthesis of munc18-1 messenger RNA (mRNA) and the amount of munc18-1 present in neurons and neuroendocrine cells are related to the physiologically controlled state of activity. To test this hypothesis, the homolog of munc18-1 in the clawed toad Xenopus laevis, xunc18, was studied in the brain and in the neuroendocrine melanotrope cells in the intermediate lobe of the pituitary gland, at both the mRNA and the protein level. In toads adapted to a black background, the melanotropes release the peptide alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), which induces darkening of the skin, whereas in animals adapted to a white background the cells hardly release but store alpha-MSH, making the animal's skin look pale. The intermediate pituitary lobe of black-adapted animals revealed a strong hybridization reaction with the xunc18 mRNA probe, whereas a much weaker hybridization was observed in the intermediate lobe of white-adapted animals (optical density black: 3.4 +/- 0.2 vs. white: 0.8 +/- 0.1; P &lt; 0.02). Immunocytochemically, Xenopus munc18-like protein has been detected throughout the brain, in identified neuronal perikarya as well as in axon tracts. Western blot analysis and immunocytochemistry further demonstrated the presence of xunc18 in the neural, intermediate and distal lobe of the pituitary gland. Xunc18 protein was furthermore determined in immunoblots of homogenates of melanotropes dissociated from the pituitary gland. In melanotropes of toads adapted to a black background, the integrated optical density of the xunc18 immunosignal was 2.7 +/- 0.5 times higher than in cells of white-adapted toads (P &lt; 0.0001). It is concluded that, in Xenopus melanotrope cells, the amounts of both xunc18 mRNA and xunc18 protein are up-regulated in conjunction with the induction of exocytosis of alpha-MSH as a result of a physiological stimulation (environmental light condition). We propose that xunc18 is involved in physiologically controlled exocytotic secretion of neuroendocrine messengers.
GnRH acts via GnRH receptors (GnRH-R) in the pituitary to cause the release of gonadotropins that regulate vertebrate reproduction. In the teleost fish, Haplochromis burtoni, reproduction is socially regulated through the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal axis, making the pituitary GnRH-R a likely site of action for this control. As a first step toward understanding the role of GnRH-R in the social control of reproduction, we cloned and sequenced candidate GnRH-R complementary DNAs from H. burtoni tissue. We isolated a complementary DNA that predicts a peptide encoding a G protein-coupled receptor that shows highest overall identity to other fish type I GnRH-R (goldfish IA and IB and African catfish). Functional testing of the expressed protein in vitro confirmed high affinity binding of multiple forms of GNRH: Localization of GnRH-R messenger RNA using RT-PCR revealed that it is widely distributed in the brain and retina as well as elsewhere in the body. Taken together, these data suggest that this H. burtoni GnRH receptor probably interacts in vivo with all three forms of GNRH:

This paper provides an overview of the types of neuropsychological and behavioural measures used in randomised controlled trials (RCTS) of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in patients with epilepsy. The results of previous systematic reviews are reported in respect of the methods used in clinical trials to assess cognitive and behavioural effects of AED treatment. There were 46 trials incorporating behavioural measures and 40 trials incorporating neuropsychological measures. The evidence supporting the choice of test, and their reliability, validity, and sensitivity to change was minimal. It is concluded that poor reporting of methods and a plethora of both neuropsychological and behavioural measures make it difficult to provide any meaningful comments about the effects of AED treatment. A much more standardised approach to assessing these effects is necessary.
For proof of efficacy studies, ideally the seizure types included should also be the most common types of seizures so that an efficacy trial can recruit patients easily and in the shortest possible time frame, provide efficacy data that is valid for a large portion of the epilepsy population, include readily identifiable seizure types that are simple to count, and include seizures that occur frequently enough so that the trial can be short (3 months). Partial seizures are the most common seizure type in an adult population and therefore they represent the first choice for proof of efficacy studies, provided that data in experimental models support efficacy in this seizure type. Because there are already several antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) available which are effective for primary generalized seizure types, and patients with refractory primary generalized seizures are not so plentiful, and including these seizures as primary types to prove efficacy would be time consuming, expensive and therefore not feasible. It is concluded that, whereas proof of concept studies may include other seizure types, the first proof of efficacy studies should be undertaken in patients with frequent (&gt;3/month) partial seizures.
The efficacy of the cholinergic agonist pilocarpine to evoke generalized seizures in rats was examined over the 24-h photocycle. Both seizure latency and severity during the 24-h period exhibited marked diurnal variation. Seizure activity generalized more rapidly throughout the dark phase and was often characterized by wild running clonus and tonic extensor convulsions. In contrast, electrographic seizures during the light phase were mainly associated with facial/forelimb clonus and rearing typical of pilocarpine-induced seizures. These data suggest that the sensitivity of the rodent brain to pilocarpine exhibits day-night variation and seizure activity induced during the dark phase may generalize via the brainstem.
The main purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which blood flow through the profunda artery within the triceps brachii muscle may be compromised during maintained low-force isometric fatiguing contractions. Doppler ultrasound techniques were used to record mean blood velocity and arterial diameter of the profunda brachii artery during sustained isometric contractions of 20% maximal voluntary contraction. The arterial diameter did not change throughout the contraction. Thus, blood velocity was considered to be an indicator of blood flow. The mean blood velocity increased initially and then remained constant during the contraction period. When compared to rest [0.06 (SD 0.03) m s-1] mean blood velocity was significantly larger at the start of the contraction [0.13 (SD 0.07) m s-1] and larger yet during recovery following the contraction [0.30 (SD 0.14) m s-1]. Although blood flow through the conduit artery did not drop during the contraction, the post-contraction hyperaemia suggested that circulatory compromise might have occurred at the level of the capillary beds.
Unsaturated free fatty acids and adenosine operate two neuromodulatory systems with opposite effects on neuronal function. Here, we tested if fatty acids controlled inhibitory adenosine A1 receptors. Arachidonate (AA, 10 microM) decreased the Bmax of an A1 receptor agonist, (R)-[3H]phenylisopropyladenosine (PIA; from 812 to 267 fmol x mg(-1) protein), and antagonist, [3H]1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX; from 994 to 311 fmol x mg(-1) protein) and decreased the Kd of [3H]PIA (from 1.20 to 0.57 nM) binding to brain membranes of young adult rats (2 months old), these effects being mimicked by other cis but not trans unsaturated or saturated fatty acids. AA (10 microM) increased the potency of the A1 receptor agonist, 2-chloroadenosine to inhibit hippocampal synaptic transmission in young adult rats (EC50 decreased from 337 to 237 nM), which may constitute a safety feedback mechanism to control AA-induced neurotoxicity. Upon aging, there were increased free fatty acid levels and a concomitant decreased density of A1 receptors. This was more marked in hippocampal nerve terminals of aged rats (24 months old) and may be the determinant factor contributing to the lower potency of 2-choloroadenosine in aged rats (EC50 = 955 nM), in spite of the decreased Kd of PIA binding upon aging. The effects of AA on A1 receptor binding were attenuated upon aging, AA being devoid of effects in aged rats. Accordingly, AA (10 microM) failed to modify the potency of 2-choloroadenosine in aged rats (EC50 = 997 nM). However, albumin, which quenches free fatty acids, increased A1 receptor density by 65% and 2-chloroadenosine potency (EC50 = 703 nM) in aged rats, suggesting that the increased fatty acids levels in aged rats may contribute to the decreased potency of A1 receptor agonists in aged rats. Also, the observed saturation of the control by AA of A1 receptors may contribute to the decreased adaptability of neuromodulation to different firing conditions in aged rats.
A true paradigm shift or revolution of thinking is taking place in the field of neurology. Earlier, it was regarded as the science of exact diagnosis of incurable illnesses, according to the resigned dogma that damage to the central nervous system could not be repaired: &quot;Once development is complete, the sources of growth and regeneration of axons and dendrites are irretrievably lost. In the adult brain the nerve paths are fixed and immutable: everything can die, nothing can be regenerated&quot; (Cajal, 1928). Even then one could have countered this with what holds today: &quot;Rehabilitation does not take place in the test tube!&quot;, and one would have been supported only a short time later by a most authoritative source, if one had read and quoted what the professor of neurology and neurosurgery in Breslau, Otfried Foerster, wrote in a 100-page article about therapeutic exercises that appeared in the Handbuch der Neurologie. From his introduction, only three sentences are quoted, which illustrate his opinion of the importance of therapeutic exercises and are closer to our views of brain functions today (Foerster, 1936): There is no doubt that most motor disturbances caused by lesions of the nervous system are more or less completely compensated as a result of a tendency inherent to the organism to carry out as expediently as possible the tasks of which it is capable under normal circumstances, using all the forces still available to it with the remaining undamaged parts of the nervous system, even following injury to its substance. This happens spontaneously, when neither a reversal of the noxa nor a regeneration of the destroyed tissue is possible, simply by means of a reorganization of the remaining parts of the nervous system, which is not a machine composed of individual parts that stands still when one part fails; rather, it possesses an admirable plasticity and exhibits an astonishingly extensive adaptability, not only to changed external conditions but also to disruptions of its own substance. Therapeutic exercises influence the course of spontaneous restoration; they support it, strengthen it. Not infrequently, in fact, they actually set it in motion when the forces essential to restoration lie fallow and are not deployed by the organism.
Long-term modification of cortical receptive field maps follows learning of sensory discriminations and conditioned associations. In the process of determining whether appetitive - as opposed to aversive - conditioning is effective in causing such plastic changes, it was discovered that multineuron receptive fields, when measured in rats under ketamine-sedation, vary substantially over the course of a week, even in the absence of classical conditioning and electrode movement. Specifically, a simple correlation analysis showed that iso-intensity frequency response curves of multiunit clusters and local field potentials recorded from auditory cortex are nonstationary over 7 days. Nevertheless, significant plastic changes in receptive fields, due to conditioned pairing of a pure tone and electrical stimulation of brain reward centres, are detectable above and beyond these spontaneous daily variations. This finding is based on a novel statistical plasticity criterion which compares receptive fields recorded for three days before and three days after conditioning. Based on a more traditional criterion (i.e. one day before and after conditioning), the prevalence of learning-induced changes caused by appetitive conditioning appears to be comparable to that described in previous studies involving aversive conditioning.
In the dorsal striatum, there are two major populations of medium spiny projection neurons. One population is positive for dynorphin mRNA (DYN+), and these cells project preferentially to the substantia nigra, forming the so-called 'direct pathway'. A second population is positive for enkephalin mRNA (ENK+), and these cells influence the substantia nigra indirectly, via the globus pallidus and subthalamic nucleus. Psychostimulant drugs, such as amphetamine and cocaine, are reported to induce immediate early genes (IEGs) in only one subpopulation of dorsal striatal projection neurons, DYN+ cells. However, this apparent selectivity appears to be a function of environmental context. We found that when given in the animal's home cage, amphetamine and cocaine increased expression of the IEG, c-fos, almost exclusively in DYN+ cells. However, when given in a novel environment, amphetamine and cocaine increased c-fos mRNA in both DYN+ and ENK+ cells. Furthermore, amphetamine and cocaine increased c-fos mRNA expression in the subthalamic nucleus when administered in the novel environment, but not when given at home. We conclude that the neural circuitry engaged by psychostimulant drugs, and their ability to induce specific patterns of gene expression, are determined by the environmental context in which they are experienced. This may be related to the ability of environmental novelty to facilitate psychostimulant drug-induced neuroplasticity.
Single administration of the cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1) or the psychostimulant amphetamine causes long-term sensitization of the hypothalamus pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis, i.e. enhanced adrenocorticotropine hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone responses weeks later. HPA responses to these stimuli involve activation of hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons by noradrenergic projections to the paraventricular nucleus (PVN). In search of the underlying mechanisms, we studied the temporal pattern of HPA sensitization in relation to (1) the reactivity of noradrenergic projections to the PVN and (2) altered secretagogue production in hypothalamic CRH neurons. Single exposure to IL-1 or amphetamine induced cross-sensitization of ACTH and corticosterone responses 11 and 22 days later, but not after 42 days. Amphetamine-induced HPA sensitization was not accompanied by increased costorage of arginine vasopressin (AVP) in CRH terminals, as found previously after IL-1 pretreatment. The reactivity of noradrenergic terminals was assessed by measuring the electrically evoked release of [3H]-noradrenaline from superfused PVN slices. Single administration of amphetamine and IL-1 induced a long-lasting (up to 22 days) increase (up to 165%) of evoked noradrenaline release. This indicates that single exposure to psychostimulants or to cytokines can induce a long-lasting increase in stimulus-secretion coupling in brainstem noradrenergic neurons that innervate the PVN. This common, long-lasting functional change may underlie, at least in part, IL-1- and amphetamine-induced HPA cross-sensitization. In addition, increased AVP signalling by hypothalamic CRH neurons appears to play a role in IL-1-induced, but not in amphetamine-induced, HPA sensitization.
Peripheral immunological insults induce interleukin (IL)-1 beta and IL-6 in the brain. To elucidate the mechanism(s) of fever evoked by these brain-derived cytokines, and possible interactions between them, we examined in rats: (i) whether cyclooxygenase-2 is responsible for fever evoked by central injection of these cytokines; (ii) if so, where in the brain cyclooxygenase-2 is induced; (iii) where the receptors for these cytokines are located; and (iv) how the expression of these receptors is influenced by the cytokines. Intracerebroventricular injection of these cytokines evoked fever that was suppressed by a cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor. Brain endothelium was the site of cyclooxygenase-2 induction by these cytokines. IL-1 receptor (IL-1R) was constitutively expressed in brain endothelium, and its mRNA was further upregulated by either cytokine. IL-6R mRNA was constitutively expressed in the cerebral cortex, and was newly induced in as yet unidentified cells in brain blood vessels by either cytokine. Messenger RNAs for cyclooxygenase-2, IL-1R, and IL-6R were often observed in the same blood vessels. These results suggest that COX-2 induced in brain endothelium is, at least in part, involved in the fever evoked by these cytokines, and that one possible interaction between these two cytokines is mutual upregulation of their receptors in the endothelium or perivascular cells, resulting in augmentation of their actions.

Addition of a load to a moving upper limb produces a perturbation of the trunk due to transmission of mechanical forces. This experiment investigated the postural response of the trunk muscles in relation to unexpected limb loading. Subjects performed rapid, bilateral shoulder flexion in response to a stimulus. In one third of trials, an unexpected load was added bilaterally to the upper limbs in the first third of the movement. Trunk muscle electromyography, intra-abdominal pressure and upper limb and trunk motion were measured. A short-latency response of the erector spinae and transversus abdominis muscles occurred approximately 50 ms after the onset of the limb perturbation that resulted from addition of the load early in the movement and was coincident with the onset of the observed perturbation at the trunk. The results provide evidence of initiation of a complex postural response of the trunk muscles that is consistent with mediation by afferent input from a site distant to the lumbar spine, which may include afferents of the upper limb.
This study validated a human behavioral model of thermal nociception analogous to the rodent tail-flick assay. Effects of instructions and stimulus intensity on behavior (i.e., finger withdrawal latency) were evaluated. Using a repeated measures randomized crossover design, the authors exposed 10 volunteers to varying radiant heat intensities (from 42.2 to 52.2 degrees C) during each of four sessions. In the different sessions, participants were told to remove their finger when they felt heat, felt unpleasant, felt pain, or could no longer tolerate pain. Withdrawal latencies significantly decreased as stimulus intensity increased and significantly increased for sensory, affective, pain, and intolerance instructions. Instruction set differences were significantly larger at higher stimulus intensities. This technique may be useful in human psychopharmacological research.
The substituted phenylpiperidine (-)-OSU6162 is a novel modulator of the dopaminergic systems with low affinity for dopamine D(2) receptors and potent normalizing effects on l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. We studied the effects of coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 with l-DOPA on the regulation of striatal preproenkephalin (PPE) and prodynorphin (PDyn) mRNA expression in the primate brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Common marmoset monkeys sustaining unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway received l-DOPA/carbidopa, l-DOPA/carbidopa plus (-)-OSU6162, or vehicle over 14 days. In vehicle-treated animals, PPE mRNA levels were markedly increased in the sensorimotor territory of the lesioned striatum. By contrast, a rather uniform lesion-induced reduction of PDyn mRNA levels was found in the vehicle group. Subchronic l-DOPA treatment induced a further increase in PPE mRNA expression in a number of sensorimotor and associative subregions of the denervated striatum. Coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 with l-DOPA partially reversed the lesion- and l-DOPA-induced elevation of PPE expression and, by affecting PPE mRNA expression differentially on the intact and lesioned striatum, markedly reduced the side-to-side difference in PPE mRNA expression. The effects on PPE mRNA expression were apparent throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the putamen and the dorsal portions of the caudate nucleus. l-DOPA treatment resulted in an enhancement in PDyn mRNA expression in all functional compartments of the striatum. Coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 had no apparent influence on these l-DOPA-induced changes in PDyn mRNA expression. The present results suggest that (-)-OSU6162 acts primarily by modifying striatal output via the indirect pathway.



There is increasing evidence that extracellular nucleotides act on bone cells via P2 receptors. This study investigated the action of ADP and 2-methylthioADP, a potent ADP analog with selectivity for the P2Y(1) receptor, on osteoclasts, the bone-resorbing multinuclear cells. Using three different assays, we show that ADP and 2-methylthioADP at nanomolar to submicromolar levels caused up to fourfold to sixfold increases in osteoclastic bone resorption. On mature rat osteoclasts, cultured for 1 day on polished dentine disks, peak effects on resorption pit formation were observed between 20 nM and 2 microM of ADP. The same concentrations of ADP also stimulated osteoclast and resorption pit formation in 10-day mouse marrow cultures on dentine disks. In 3-day explant cultures of mouse calvarial bones, the stimulatory effect of ADP on osteoclast-mediated Ca(2+) release was greatest at 5-50 microM and equivalent to the maximal effects of prostaglandin E(2). The ADP effects were blocked in a nontoxic manner by MRS 2179, a P2Y(1) receptor antagonist. Using in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry, we found evidence for P2Y(1) receptor expression on both osteoclasts and osteoblasts; thus, ADP could exert its actions both directly on osteoclasts and indirectly via P2Y(1) receptors on osteoblasts. As a major ATP degradation product, ADP is a novel stimulator of bone resorption that could help mediate inflammatory bone loss in vivo.
This review contrasts the most-studied variety of attention, visuospatial attention, with several types of nonspatial visual attention. We: 1) discuss the manner in which spatial and nonspatial varieties of attention are experimentally defined, and the ecological validity of the paradigms in which they are studied, 2) review and compare differing effects of spatial and nonspatial attention on neural processing, 3) discuss the manner in which attention operates within the framework of an anatomical visual hierarchy, as well as 4) how attention relates to the temporal dynamics of visual processing, 5) describe cellular circuits and physiological processes that appear to be involved in attention effects, 6) discuss the relationship of attentional physiology to the perceptual and cognitive effects of attention, and 7) consider the strengths and limitations of several current models of selective attention. Throughout, we attempt to integrate the findings of monkey and human studies whenever possible. We have three main conclusions. First, two models, the Neural Specificity Model of Harter and colleagues and the Feature Similarity Gain Model of Treue and colleagues best incorporate findings in relation to both spatial and nonspatial varieties of attention. Significantly, these models explicitly note that the specific neuronal components used in attentional modulation of processing are flexible and determined by task demands. Second, current evidence also provides strong bases for deriving testable hypotheses about the specific brain mechanisms utilized by attention. Cellular processes, brain circuits and neurotransmitter components can and should be incorporated into our models of attention. Finally, it is increasingly evident that we can and should analyze temporal patterns of attentional modulation, both within and across brain areas. These patterns provide critical information on the dynamics of attention.
Vasotocin (AVT) promotes courtship in a wide range of vertebrates. However, this effect is not independent of steroid hormones. For example, androgens may work in concert with AVT and corticosterone (CORT) may work to oppose AVT action. In frogs, AVT promotes calling, and in some species, CORT inhibits calling. In addition, androgens are known to modulate AVT in the brain, and CORT may depress androgen secretion. Previous work in amphibians has suggested that AVT promotes courtship by overcoming a CORT-mediated stress response. Possible behavioral and hormonal interactions among AVT, CORT, and androgens were investigated in wild, free-living green treefrogs (Hyla cinerea). Saline, AVT, CORT, or a combination of AVT and CORT were administered to calling males, and several measures of spontaneous calling were evaluated for 1.5 h following injection. Plasma testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, and CORT were also measured. Saline-injected males had low CORT levels, and AVT and CORT injection elevated plasma CORT levels. AVT increased the likelihood of calling, but, in males who did call, AVT did not influence latency to call or how often they were observed calling. Very few saline-injected males resumed calling after injection, and therefore a CORT effect was only detectable in AVT-injected males. CORT inhibited calling in AVT-injected males only at the highest dose of CORT (40 microg); lower levels of CORT were unsuccessful at inhibiting AVT-induced calling. AVT appeared to have a specific effect on calling motivation. Further, the data suggest that disinhibition of a CORT response is not the primary mechanism by which AVT increases calling. In addition, CORT injection reduced endogenous androgen levels. Finally, endogenous androgens were negatively correlated with latency to begin calling, suggesting that they may have a positive effect on calling. These data indicate that AVT has positive effects on calling but provide only weak evidence that CORT inhibits courtship in this species.
Progress in understanding the biology of the neurofibromatoses (NF1 and NF2) offers hope for the development of new, effective methods of treatment. In May 2000, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) hosted a workshop that included leading researchers and clinicians from the NF community. The goal of the meeting was to assess current knowledge and identify priorities for future research. Needs identified included the development of better animal models, further study of the function of the NF1 and NF2 genes, and investigation of the role of modifier genes. The participants agreed that it will also be important to define further the natural history of NF1 and NF2 and to develop an infrastructure to support clinical trials. They also discussed the possible creation of research consortia and NF centers to promote the integration of basic and clinical research.

Previous studies suggest that oligodendrocytes express trophic molecules, including neurotrophins. These molecules have been shown to influence nearby neurons. To determine whether neuronal signals may, in turn, affect oligodendrocyte-derived trophins, we examined regulation of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) mRNA expression in cultured oligodendrocytes of the basal forebrain. Neuronal signals had distinct effects on individual neurotrophins. KCl elicited increases in BDNF mRNA, but did not affect expression of NGF or NT-3. The cholinergic agonist, carbachol, increased expression of NGF, but did not affect expression of BDNF or NT-3. Glutamate elicited a decrease in BDNF, but did not affect expression of NGF or NT-3. This glutamate effect is not due to toxicity, since the number of total cells was unchanged, while the number of mature myelin basic protein positive (MBP+) cells increased. Our observations suggest that individual neuronal signals distinctly influence the trophic function of oligodendrocytes.

Functional neuroanatomy of writing is relatively unknown compared to that of other linguistic processes. This study aimed at identifying brain regions crucial to the process of writing. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), brain hemodynamic activity was examined during three conditions that differentially engaged visual, linguistic, and/or motor functions: (1) writing names of pictures with the right index finger, (2) naming pictures silently, and (3) visually cued finger tapping. A writing minus naming comparison and a writing minus tapping comparison were performed, and brain regions commonly activated in these two contrasts were detected. Our main finding was that such common activation was observed in the anterior part of the left superior parietal lobule, the posterior part of the middle and superior frontal gyri, and the right cerebellum. The parietal and frontal regions were considered to subserve the process of writing as separated from that of naming and finger movements, which is consistent with the classical notion mainly proposed by studies of selective writing deficits called pure agraphia. The right cerebellar activation, on the other hand, was interpreted as the reflection of the execution of complex finger movements required for writing.
We identified novel polymorphisms in the calcitonin/CGRPalpha (CALCA) gene by direct sequencing of genomic DNA and subsequent genotyping by RFLP (restriction fragment length polymorphism) detection and investigated association with neurological or psychiatric disease. Four novel polymorphic alleles were found: two (g.979G&gt;A and g.4218T&gt;C) represented single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), one consisted of two coupled SNPs in close vicinity to each other (g.1210T&gt;C and g.1214C&gt;G), and one was an intronic 16-bp microdeletion (2919-2934del16). One of the SNPs (g.4218T&gt;C) causes a non-synonymous amino acid change (Leu66Pro) in the third exon, an exon common to both procalcitonin and pro-alpha-CGRP. In a subsequent association study, frequencies of the identified polymorphisms in Parkinson and schizophrenia patients were compared with frequencies in the normal population. No statistically significant association was found in our material. The 16-bp microdeletion polymorphism was present in a family with multiple cases of unipolar or bipolar depressive disorder. Using this polymorphism as marker, cosegregation with the phenotype was observed in the majority of individuals.

A method is proposed for three-dimensional (3-D) texture analysis of magnetic resonance imaging brain datasets. It is based on extended, multisort co-occurrence matrices that employ intensity, gradient and anisotropy image features in a uniform way. Basic properties of matrices as well as their sensitivity and dependence on spatial image scaling are evaluated. The ability of the suggested 3-D texture descriptors is demonstrated on nontrivial classification tasks for pathologic findings in brain datasets.
Mice with severe combined immunodeficiency (scid mice) and infected with the relapsing fever agent Borrelia turicatae develop manifestations that resemble those of disseminated Lyme disease. We have characterized two isogenic serotypes, A and B, which differ in their variable small proteins (Vsps) and disease manifestations. Serotype A but not serotype B was cultured from the brain during early infection, and serotype B caused more severe arthritis, myocarditis, and vestibular dysfunction than serotype A. Here we compared the localization and number of spirochetes and the severity of inflammation in scid mice, using immunostained and hematoxylin-and-eosin-stained coronal sections of decalcified heads. Spirochetes in the brain localized predominantly to the leptomeninges, and those in peripheral tissues localized mainly to the extracellular matrix. There were significantly more serotype A than B spirochetes in the leptomeninges and more serotype B than A spirochetes in the skin. The first tissue where spirochetes were observed outside the vasculature was the dura mater. Inflammation was more severe in the skin than in the brain. VspA, VspB, and the periplasmic flagellin protein were expressed in all tissues examined. These findings indicate that isogenic but antigenically distinct Borrelia serotypes can have marked differences in their localization in tissues.
Vascular dementia (VaD) and Alzheimer's disease are sometimes difficult to distinguish due to overlaps in symptomatology, pathophysiology and comorbidity. The issue of differential diagnosis is further complicated by the fact that many patients have concomitant Alzheimer's disease and cerebrovascular disease (CVD) ('mixed' dementia). Each pathology may contribute to varying degrees, giving rise to a continuum of patients in whom pure CVD and pure Alzheimer's disease represent the two extremes. Despite the clear overlap between the conditions, and the prevalence of 'mixed' dementia, a number of criteria for Alzheimer's disease and VaD do not make provision for 'mixed' dementia distinct from the coincidence of any two other dementing illnesses. We will discuss the current diagnostic criteria for VaD, with or without coexisting Alzheimer's disease, in an effort to determine how best to diagnose VaD. These include traditional criteria such as the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders or the Hachinski Ischemic Scale, and the more recently developed criteria by the California Alzheimer's Disease Diagnostic and Treatment Centers (CAD-DTC) and the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke and the Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (NINDS-AIREN) International Workshop. The CAD-DTC and NINDS-AIREN rely on neuroimaging--ideally, every patient suspected of dementia should have brain imaging, but although this is possible in clinical trials (for which these criteria were designed), it is not always feasible in population-based epidemiological studies and clinical practice in some countries.
Vascular dementia (VaD) describes dementia arising from cerebrovascular disease (CVD) and ischaemic brain injury, and relates to a number of different vascular mechanisms and clinical manifestations. The characterisation of brain lesions by neuroimaging analysis, and the study of their relation to clinical deficits such as cognitive and functional decline, are critical to the concept and treatment of VaD, and form an important part of widely used diagnostic criteria for this dementia type. For instance, the extent to which pathological brain lesions cause, compound or coexist with cognitive impairment is a major determinant of other clinical deficits, their nature and the rate of disease progression. Through numerous neuroimaging and epidemiological studies, VaD is now seen to encompass a heterogeneous group of clinical syndromes such as multiple-infarct (cortical) dementia, small-vessel (subcortical) dementia and, less commonly, dementia associated with strategic infarcts. Due to a large number of similarities in clinical symptoms, pathophysiological mechanisms, associated risk factors and neurochemical deficits between VaD and Alzheimer's disease, patients with coexistent Alzheimer's disease and CVD ('mixed' dementia) represent another important, but previously underestimated subgroup. This article reviews the clinical symptoms and neuroimaging findings most commonly observed in patients with VaD. Increased familiarity with the clinical picture of VaD should offer more hope of defining realistic treatment aims for future pharmacotherapy.
The expression of angiogenic factors may represent useful markers for diagnosis and prediction of disease outcome. Basic fibroblast growth factor (b-FGF) is a potent angiogenic factor which promotes in vitro growth of endothelial cells and in vivo vessel formation. We investigated the expression of b-FGF in patients affected with malignant and non-malignant pleural diseases and presenting clinically with non-specific signs and symptoms. We also studied the relationships between the expression of b-FGF in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma (MM) and tumour aggressiveness, assessed as tumour vessel density (TVD), or patient survival. Basic-FGF was measured by immunoassay in the serum and pleural effusions (PE) of 37 patients. Of these, MM was diagnosed in 15/37 patients while the remaining patients had either peripheral lung adenocarcinoma (PLA) or benign inflammatory pleural disease (BPD). The mean b-FGF level measured 8.5+/-6.1 pg/ml in the PE of the malignant group (MM + PLA) and 23.9+/-19.8 in the PE of the non-malignant group (BPD) (p=0.001). The mean b-FGF level was significantly lower in the PE of MM patients (6.9+/-5.2 pg/ml) compared to BPD patients (p=0.004). Linear regression analysis showed a significant inverse correlation (r=-0.59; p=0.041) between b-FGF levels found in MM PE and patient survival. A noteworthy relationship between high serum b-FGF levels and reduced survival was also observed (r=-0.57; p=0.052). Interestingly, both serum (r=0.48; p=0.114) and PE (r=0.26; p=0.413) b-FGF levels in MM patients correlated poorly with TVD. Our data indicate that b-FGF is significantly more expressed in non-malignant compared to malignant PE, this difference being particularly evident between MM and BPD. Our results also suggest that high b-FGF levels correlate with poor MM patient survival through mechanisms which may be independent of b-FGF angiogenic potential.




We carried out immunohistochemistry and western blotting of fresh frozen sections and crude extracts from adult rat thyroids. The histochemical and immunoblotting studies were performed with P2X receptor antibodies from 2 different sources. P2X-immunopositive cells were identified by fluorescence double labelling and confocal microscopy. Results of the western blotting experiments showed double bands of approximately 70 kDa and 140 kDa for all 7 P2X receptor subtypes with both sets of antibodies. Histochemical stains with antibodies from both sources also gave essentially identical results. P2X1, P2X, and P2X6 receptors were detected exclusively in vascular smooth muscle; P2X5 and P2X7 receptors were also present on vascular smooth muscle. Endothelial cells stained for P2X3, P2X4 and P2X7 receptors. Thyroid follicular cells displayed immunoreactivity for P2X3, P2X4 and P2X5 receptors. No immunostaining for P2X receptors was observed on C-cells. Possible roles for the broad expression of P2X receptor subtypes in the rat thyroid are discussed.
This communication considers a patient with episodic muscle spasms. Pharmacological intervention and electrophysiological studies provided adequate evidence confirming the diagnosis of stiff person syndrome. Electrophysiological studies in present communication similar to earlier reports, confirmed once again the autonomous state of the anterior horn cell in this disease process.
Release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to cytosol is a critical step in the mitochondrial-dependent signaling pathways of apoptosis. The authors have reported that manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) attenuated cytochrome c release and apoptotic cell death after focal cerebral ischemia (FCI). To investigate downstream to the cytochrome c-dependent pathway, the authors examined caspase-9 activation after transient FCI by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting in both wild-type and Sod2 -/+ mice. Mice were subjected to 60 minutes of middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by 1, 2, 4, or 24 hours of reperfusion. Two hours after reperfusion, cytochrome c and caspase-9 were observed in the cytosol and significantly increased in Sod2 -/+ mutants compared with wild-type mice as shown by Western blotting. Immunofluorescent double labeling for cytochrome c and caspase-9 showed cytosolic cytochrome c 1 hour after transient FCI. Cleaved caspase-9 first appeared in the cytosol at 2 hours and colocalized with cytochrome c. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated uridine 5;-triphosphate-biotin nick and labeling (TUNEL) showed significant increase of positive cells in Sod2 -/+ mice compared with the wild-type in the cortex, but not in the caudate putamen. The current study revealed Mn-SOD might affect cytochrome c translocation and downstream caspase activation in the mitochondrial-dependent cell death pathway after transient FCI.
The role of c-Fos in neurodegeneration or neuroprotection after cerebral ischemia is controversial. To investigate whether early c-Fos induction after ischemia is associated with neuroprotection, rats were subjected to 10 minutes of transient forebrain ischemia and c-Fos expression was examined. Resistant dentate granule cells and neurons in CA2-4 displayed more robust immunoreactivity than vulnerable neurons in the CA1 region of hippocampus during early hours of reperfusion. By 6 hours after reperfusion, c-Fos immunoreactivity was greatly diminished in all areas of the hippocampus. Administration of N-acetyl-O-methyldopamine (NAMDA), a compound previously shown to protect CA1 neurons against ischemia, increased c-Fos immunoreactivity in the CA1 vulnerable region at 6 hours after ischemia and protected SK-N-BE(2)C neurons from oxygen glucose deprivation. Further in vitro study showed that NAMDA potentiated phorbol-12 myristate-13 acetate (PMA)-induced c-Fos expression, AP1 binding activity, and late gene expression determined by chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) activity from AP1 containing tyrosine hydroxylase promoter-CAT fusion gene in SK-N-BE(2)C neurons. In vivo and in vitro results showed that a neuroprotectant, NAMDA, in concert with another stimulus (for example, ischemia or PMA) up-regulates c-Fos expression and suggested that the early rise of NAMDA-induced c-Fos expression in vulnerable CA1 neurons may account for neuroprotection by means of up-regulating late gene expression for survival.
Quantification of linear biological structures has important applications in neuroscience; for example, the length of neurotransmitter-specific axonal innervation or length of dendritic processes within particular brain structures. Until recently, however, there have been practical limitations in the application of stereological tools for the unbiased estimation of object length on tissue sections. The recent development of efficient new approaches allows for the wider application of theoretically unbiased sampling and estimation techniques that are devoid of the assumptions and models of earlier methods. In this review, we outline the historical background and recent advances in the estimation of total length for biological objects on tissue sections, including a practical method to estimate the length of cholinergic fibers using newly developed methods. These newer methods also take advantage of three-dimensional image datasets and virtual probes, techniques that may have wider application in quantitative morphometry.
Adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency is an autosomal-recessive disorder of the purine de novo synthesis pathway, diagnosed up to now in approximately 40 patients. The clinical presentation is characterized by severe neurologic involvement including seizures, developmental delay, hypotonia, and autistic features. Neonatal seizures and a severe infantile epileptic encephalopathy are often the first manifestations of this disorder. The existence of genetic heterogeneity for the adenylosuccinate lyase defect could account for variability of the clinical presentation. Deficiency of purine nucleotides, impairment of energy metabolism, and toxic effects are potential mechanisms of cerebral damage. Laboratory investigations show the presence in urine and cerebrospinal fluid of succinylpurines, which are normally undetectable. Currently, no effective treatment is available for adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency. A search for this disorder should be included in the screening program of children with unexplained neonatal seizures or severe infantile epileptic encephalopathy.

The study of dynamic changes in neural activity preceding epileptic seizure allows the characterization of a preictal state several minutes before seizure onset. This opens up new perspectives for studying the mechanisms of epileptogenesis as well as for possible therapeutic interventions, which represent a major breakthrough. In this review the authors present and discuss the results from their group in this domain using nonlinear analysis of brain signals, as well as the limitations of this topic and current questions.
Acute haemorrhagic presentation of spinal schwannoma is a rare event. A case of cervical spinal schwannoma presenting with spontaneous spinal subdural and intramedullary haemorrhage is described.
Despite a universal policy of community care, the number of frail older people entering care homes is likely to increase in the future. There have been relatively few studies exploring the experience of spouses who have placed a partner in care. Due to a lack of preparation, the placement process is often ad hoc, with little attention being given to spouses' emotional reactions or their efforts to maintain their relationship with their partner. The relationship between care home staff and families is often superficial and strained. There is a need for more proactive efforts to facilitate a partnership between care home staff and families.

Human beings have the capacity to recognize objects in natural visual scenes with high efficiency despite the complexity of such scenes, which usually contain multiple objects. One possible mechanism for dealing with this problem is selective attention. Psychophysical evidence strongly suggests that selective attention can enhance the spatial resolution in the input region corresponding to the focus of attention. In this work we adopt a computational neuroscience perspective to analyze the attentional enhancement of spatial resolution in the area containing the objects of interest. We extend and apply the computational model of Deco and Schrmann (2000), which consists of several modules with feedforward and feedback interconnections describing the mutual links between different areas of the visual cortex. Each module analyses the visual input with different spatial resolution and can be thought of as a hierarchical predictor at a given level of resolution. Moreover, each hierarchical predictor has a submodule that consists of a group of neurons performing a biologically based 2D Gabor wavelet transformation at a given resolution level. The attention control decides in which local regions the spatial resolution should be enhanced in a serial fashion. In this sense, the scene is first analyzed at a coarse resolution level, and the focus of attention enhances iteratively the resolution at the location of an object until the object is identified. We propose and simulate new psychophysical experiments where the effect of the attentional enhancement of spatial resolution can be demonstrated by predicting different reaction time profiles in visual search experiments where the target and distractors are defined at different levels of resolution.
Hippocampal lesions produce memory deficits, but the exact function of the hippocampus remains obscure. Evidence is presented that its role in memory may be ancillary to physiological regulation. Molecular studies demonstrate that the hippocampus is a primary target for ligands that reflect body physiology, including ion balance and blood pressure, immunity, pain, reproductive status, satiety and stress. Hippocampal receptors are functional, probably accessible to their ligands, and mediate physiological and cognitive changes. This argues that an early role of the hippocampus may have been in sensing soluble molecules (termed here 'enteroception') in blood and cerebrospinal fluid, perhaps reflecting a common evolutionary origin with the olfactory system ('exteroception'). Functionally, hippocampal enteroception may reflect feedback control; evidence is reviewed that the hippocampus modulates body physiology, including the activity of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis, blood pressure, immunity, and reproductive function. It is suggested that the hippocampus operates, in parallel with the amygdala, to modulate body physiology in response to cognitive stimuli. Hippocampal outputs are predominantly inhibitory on downstream neuroendocrine activity; increased synaptic efficacy in the hippocampus (e.g. long-term potentiation) could facilitate throughput inhibition. This may have implications for the role of the hippocampus and long-term potentiation in memory.
We evaluated the sensitivity of 5-HT1D receptors in patients with migraine using sumatriptan as a pharmacological probe. The drug inhibits the release of ACTH, cortisol and prolactin and this effect may be used to explore the function of serotoninergic systems in vivo. We administered sumatriptan (6 mg sc) and placebo to 15 migraineurs, during the headache-free period, and to 10 healthy controls. Blood samples were collected -15, 0, 15, 30, 45, 60 and 90 min after injections. Sumatriptan induced a significant (p&lt;0.01) decrease of ACTH, cortisol and prolactin concentrations both in patients with migraine and in controls. The neuroendocrine response was not significantly different in the two groups. Our results suggest that 5-HT1D receptor sensitivity is not altered in migraine.

For fast (13)C metabolite mapping in rat brains, (1)H-detected (13)C NMR spectroscopy using gradient-enhanced heteronuclear multiple-quantum coherence and (1)H echo planar spectroscopic imaging were combined. (13)C glucose and 3-/4-(13)C-Glu/Gln images of rat brain were successfully constructed with 35-minute temporal resolution under a 2T magnetic field. In the ischemic region of the suture middle cerebral artery occlusion model, glucose and Glu/Gln signals decreased and lactate signals appeared. J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2001;13:787-791.
We investigated the influence of different task demands, task designs, and presentation modalities on the functional MRI activation patterns during a language lateralization task in a group of 14 right-handed control subjects. A word classification task was presented as target task appropriate to evoke language-related activation in the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG). The choice of the contrasting baseline task was demonstrated to have a major impact on the functional outcome: While a fixation baseline elicited activations in the inferior frontal gyrus of both hemispheres, a nonsemantic perceptual control task helped to isolate the relevant target task of word classification. The modality of stimulus presentation did not influence the functional data: Auditory and visual presentation modes broadly evoked activations in similar brain regions during word classification. Minor differences in task performance and the side of the responding hand did not interfere with the functional activation patterns of the target task. On the basis of our results, a protocol of functional lateralization in the inferior frontal gyrus is suggested. J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2001;13:668-675.
Behavior is a manifestation of temporally and spatially defined neuronal activities. To understand how behavior is controlled by the nervous system, it is important to identify the neuronal substrates responsible for these activities, and to elucidate how they are integrated into a functional circuit. I introduce a novel and general method to conditionally perturb anatomically defined neurons in intact Drosophila. In this method, a temperature-sensitive allele of shibire (shi(ts1)) is overexpressed in neuronal subsets using the GAL4/UAS system. Because the shi gene product is essential for synaptic vesicle recycling, and shi(ts1) is semidominant, a simple temperature shift should lead to fast and reversible effects on synaptic transmission of shi(ts1) expressing neurons. When shi(ts1) expression was directed to cholinergic neurons, adult flies showed a dramatic response to the restrictive temperature, becoming motionless within 2 min at 30 degrees C. This temperature-induced paralysis was reversible. After being shifted back to the permissive temperature, they readily regained their activity and started to walk in 1 min. When shi(ts1) was expressed in photoreceptor cells, adults and larvae exhibited temperature-dependent blindness. These observations show that the GAL4/UAS system can be used to express shi(ts1) in a specific subset of neurons to cause temperature-dependent changes in behavior. Because this method allows perturbation of the neuronal activities rapidly and reversibly in a spatially and temporally restricted manner, it will be useful to study the functional significance of particular neuronal subsets in the behavior of intact animals.
We studied markers of myelin content and of the rate of myelination in brains of mice between 8 and 20 weeks of age. During the 12-week time-course, control animals showed slight increases in the content of oligodendroglial-specific cerebroside, as well as cholesterol (enriched in, but not specific to, myelin). In contrast, synthesis of these lipids, as assayed by in vivo incorporation of (3)H(2)O, was substantial, indicating turnover of 0.4% and 0.7% of total brain cerebroside and cholesterol, respectively, each day. We also studied mice exposed to a diet containing 0.2% of the copper chelator, cuprizone. After 6 weeks 20%, and by 12 weeks, over 30% of brain cerebroside was gone. Demyelination was accompanied by down-regulation of mRNA expression for enzymes controlling myelin lipid synthesis (ceramide galactosyl transferase for cerebroside; hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA reductase for cholesterol), and for myelin basic protein. Synthesis of myelin lipids was also greatly depressed. The 20% cerebroside deficit consequent to 6 weeks of cuprizone exposure was restored 6 weeks after return to a control diet. During remyelination, expression of myelin-related mRNA species, as well as cerebroside and cholesterol synthesis were restored to normal. However, in contrast to the steady state metabolic turnover in the control situation, all the cerebroside and cholesterol made were accumulated. To the extent that accumulating cerebroside is targeted for eventual inclusion in myelin (discussed) the rate of its synthesis is proportional to remyelination. With our assay, in vivo rates of cerebroside synthesis can be determined for a time window of the order of hours. This offers greater temporal resolution and accuracy relative to classical methods assaying accumulation of myelin components at time intervals of several days. We propose this experimental design, and the reproducible cuprizone model, as appropriate for studies of how to promote remyelination.
Defensins are cationic peptides with broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity. They are members of a supergene family consisting of alpha and beta subtypes and each subtype is comprised of a number of different isoforms. For example, human alpha-defensin (HAD) has six isoforms, which are expressed by polymorphonuclear leukocytes and Paneth cells. In contrast, human beta-defensin (HBD) has two isoforms that are expressed by epithelial cells of the skin, gut, respiratory and urogenital tracts. Recently, HBD-1 was detected in human brain biopsy tissue. However, little is known about the expression of HBD-1 or HBD-2 in the CNS and whether neural cells can secrete these peptides. For the present study, human astrocyte, microglial, meningeal fibroblast and neuronal cultures were probed for the expression of HBD-1 and HBD-2 mRNA and protein. Each cell type was either maintained in tissue culture medium alone or in medium containing lipopolysaccharide (LPS) at concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 1 microgram/mL, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta) at 1-50 ng/mL, or tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) at the same concentrations. The expression of HBD-1 and HBD-2 mRNAs was monitored by RT-PCR. The cDNA products were sequenced to characterize the gene product. HBD-2 protein was detected by immunoblot, immunoprecipitation and immunocytochemistry. Results of these studies showed that HBD-1 mRNA was detected in all cell cultures except in those enriched for neurons. In contrast, HBD-2 mRNA was detected only in astrocyte cultures that were treated with LPS, IL-1beta or TNF-alpha. The detection of the respective proteins correlated positively with the mRNA results. As such, these data represent the first demonstration of HBD-2 expression by astrocytes and suggest that this peptide may play a role in host defense against bacterial CNS pathogenesis.
Hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) is a robust and long-lasting form of synaptic plasticity that is the leading candidate for a cellular mechanism contributing to mammalian learning and memory. Investigations over the past decade have revealed that the biochemistry of LTP induction involves mechanisms of great subtlety and complexity. This review highlights themes that have emerged as a result of our increased knowledge of the signal transduction pathways involved in the induction of NMDA receptor-dependent LTP in area CA1 of the hippocampus. Among these themes are signal amplification, signal integration and signal coordination. Here we use these themes as an organizing context for reviewing the profusion of signaling mechanisms involved in the induction of LTP.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF) are neuroprotective for subpopulations of sensory neurons and thus are candidates for pain treatment. However, delivering these factors to damaged neurons will invariably result in undamaged systems also being treated, with possible consequences for sensory processing. In sensory neurons the purinergic receptor P2X(3) is found predominantly in GDNF-sensitive nociceptors. ATP signalling via the P2X(3) receptor may contribute to pathological pain, suggesting an important role for this receptor in regulating nociceptive function. We therefore investigated the effects of intrathecal GDNF or NGF on P2X(3) expression in adult rat spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia (DRG). In control spinal cords, P2X(3) expression was restricted to a narrow band of primary afferent terminals within inner lamina II (II(i)). Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor treatment increased P2X(3) immunoreactivity within lamina II(i) but not elsewhere in the cord. Nerve growth factor treatment, however, induced novel P2X(3) expression, with intense immunoreactivity in axons projecting to lamina I and outer lamina II and to the ventro-medial afferent bundle beneath the central canal. In the normal DRG, we found a greater proportion of P2X(3)-positive neurons at cervical levels, many of which were large-diameter and calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive. In both cervical and lumbar DRG, the number of P2X(3)-positive cells increased following GDNF or NGF treatment. De novo expression of P2X(3) in NGF-sensitive nociceptors may contribute to chronic inflammatory pain.
Orphanin FQ or nociceptin (OFQ/N), the heptadecapeptide agonist for the NOP receptor, is derived by proteolytic processing from a precursor protein, preproOFQ/N. Previous studies have reported alternative splicing between exons 3 and 4 of the mouse OFQ/N transcript, which, upon translation, would yield precursor proteins with different C-termini. Using RT-PCR, we identified similar alternative splicing of preproOFQ/N transcripts in humans and rats. In addition, we identified two novel human preproOFQ/N splice variants from which exon 2 has been excised and which also undergo alternative splicing between exons 3 and 4. Exon 2 contains the translational start site for preproOFQ/N and encodes the signal peptide sequence. In vitro translation of cRNAs lacking exon 2 yields shorter translation products which arise from an alternative initiator methionine located within exon 3. The resulting proteins would lack a signal peptide sequence, which would likely alter their cellular trafficking and processing.
Immunocytochemical studies at light and electron microscopic levels in hippocampi of patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy showed mGluR1 and mGluR5 immunoreactivity in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and CA1 area, especially at the border between stratum oriens and alveus. By electron microscopy, degenerating neuronal elements were found in all areas studied. There were glial filamentous tangles which appeared similar to intranuclear inclusions in astrocytes in all areas studied. Reactive product for mGluR1 was localised only in post-synaptic elements. However, mGluR5 immunoreactivity was demonstrated in both post- and pre-synaptic elements in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and CA1 area. Reactive product for mGluR5 was also demonstrated in astrocytes and in the periphery of fibrillary tangles. We postulate that in patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, mGluR1 may increase hippocampal excitability through postsynaptic activation, and mGluR5 may do so through both pre- and post-synaptic mechanisms.
Neuronal number in the mature CNS is determined by the balance of cell proliferation and death. The effects of ethanol on cell proliferation and death were examined in primary cultures of neocortical neurons derived from 16-day-old rat fetuses. The cells were treated with ethanol (0 or 400 mg/dl) and examined for (1) immunohistochemical identity, (2) cell cycle kinetics using a cumulative bromodeoxyuridine labeling technique, (3) viable cell number via a trypan blue assay, and (4) the incidence of cell death with terminal deoxy-nucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) and caspase 3 immunhistochemistry. After two days in culture, most (&gt;85%) cells expressed a neuron-specific antigen(s) whether or not ethanol was added to the culture medium. Ethanol affected the proliferation of the cultured cells, e.g., the length of the cell cycle was greater in the ethanol-treated cells than in controls. The number of trypan blue-negative (viable) cells was profoundly decreased by ethanol exposure. This decrease was accompanied by increases in the frequencies of TUNEL- and caspase 3-positive cells and of cells exhibiting nuclear condensations. Thus, ethanol decreases the number of viable cells in vitro by slowing cell proliferation and increasing the incidence of cell death. The expression of the death indices in untreated cultures is most consistent with a single (apoptotic) pathway of cell death, rather than simultaneous apoptotic and necrotic modes of death. Furthermore, it appears that ethanol initiates an apoptotic death among cultured cortical neurons.

The best management of patients with brain metastases from an unknown primary tumour is still unclear, as data are scarce and studies are retrospective. We report 33 patients with biopsy-proven brain metastases from a primary tumour not found at the first investigations, who were treated by surgery and/or radiotherapy and followed with serial CT until death. Median survival time for all patients was 10 months and survival rates at 6 months, 1 year and 2 years were 76 %, 42 % and 15 % respectively. Patients with single brain metastasis treated by gross total resection and whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) had a median survival of 13 months with 76% alive at 6 months, 57 % at 1 year and 19% at 2 years. Patients with multiple brain metastases who underwent either WBRT alone or WBRT preceded by gross total resection of the symptomatic lesions had a poorer prognosis: median survival of 6-8 months with 50-100% alive at 6 months, 17-20% at 1 year and none alive at 2 years. In 85% of patients with a single brain metastasis a significant improvement in neurological functions was observed after surgical resection; among patients with multiple brain metastases a neurological improvement was observed in all patients who had a resection of symptomatic lesions and only in a half of patients who had WBRT alone. During the follow-up the primary tumour was found in 27/33 patients (82 %) and was located in the lung in 78%. Between 1987 and 1991 (with limited screening for the primary tumour in the follow-up) the unknown tumours were 6/15 (40%); in the more recent period (1992-1996) (CT-based screening for the primary tumour in the follow-up) no primary tumour remained unknown but overall survival has not significantly improved. The number of brain metastases was the only significant factor affecting survival after both univariate and multivariate analysis. This study suggests that, in patients with both single and multiple brain metastases from an undetected primary site when first studied, surgery and/or WBRT enable the control of the brain disease, partly because the systemic disease may be silent for a prolonged time. Only a few asymptomatic patients may benefit from an early detection and treatment of the primary tumour during the follow-up.


Although autonomic symptoms are not prominent in dystrophinopathies, a reduced vagal activity and an enhanced sympathetic tone have been found in Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Twenty patients with Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) were investigated by a battery of six cardiovascular autonomic tests (beat-to-beat variability during quiet breathing and deep breathing, heart rate responses to Valsalva maneuver and standing, blood pressure responses to standing and sustained handgrip) and power spectral analysis (PSA) of heart rate variability. Although 11 patients revealed abnormal findings at some cardiovascular tests, none of them had a definite autonomic damage, as indicated by two or more abnormal tests. The mean results of the single tests did not differ from normal controls, except for the beat-to-beat variability during quiet breathing, which was significantly higher in BMD (p&lt;0.05). Such finding was confirmed by a significantly higher total variance (p&lt;0.05), indicating an increased parasympathetic activity. Spectral components were not significantly different from normal controls. PSA values were not influenced by age, functional ability score or presence of heart abnormalities. Our data suggest that autonomic involvement does not represent a major finding in BMD.
Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI) provides a unique form of MR contrast that enables the diffusional motion of water molecules to be quantitatively measured. As a consequence, DW-MRI provides information about the size, shape, integrity, and orientation of brain structures. Pathological processes able to alter tissue integrity by removing or modifying some of the structural barriers that normally restrict water molecular motion in biological tissues cause changes in water diffusion characteristics, which can be measured in-vivo using DW-MRI. Although DW-MRI has been shown to be of great clinical utility in the assessment of patients with cerebral ischemia, it is also increasingly being used to quantify in-vivo the extent and severity of multiple sclerosis (MS) pathology. The pathological elements of MS have the potential to alter the permeability or geometry of structural barriers to water molecular motion in the brain, optic nerve and spinal cord. The present review outlines the major contributions given by DW-MRI for the quantification of MS-related damage and for the understanding of MS pathophysiology.
Diffusion-weighted (DW) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the only technique that permits a non-invasive in vivo assessment of water molecular diffusion, which reflects tissue configuration at a microscopic level. Therefore, this technique appears to be particularly useful in monitoring brain abnormalities. However, the quantitative measurement of diffusion is not without problems, which may limit the widespread use of diffusion-weighted MRI. In this report, the phenomenon of diffusion is described, together with its effect on the nuclear magnetic resonance signal. The concepts of diffusion anisotropy and diffusion tensor are also introduced, and the technical and hardware requirements are discussed.
Conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) lacks pathological specificity to the heterogeneous substrates of multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions and is not able to detect subtle, disease-related changes in the normal-appearing white matter (NAWM). As a consequence, the correlation between MRI findings and the long-term evolution of MS is moderate at best. To overcome the limitations of conventional MRI, new quantitative magnetic resonance (MR) techniques, such as cell-specific imaging, magnetization transfer imaging (MTI), proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and functional MR imaging (fMRI) have all been recently applied to the study of MS. These techniques should provide more accurate and pathologically specific estimates of the MS lesion burden than conventional MR and should improve our understanding of the mechanisms leading to MS-related irreversible disability.
Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) may be a critical factor in the repair of injured tissues. In mice lacking iNOS we observed abnormalities in how the peripheral nerve responds to each of 3 fundamental types of injury: chronic constriction partial nerve injury (a model of neuropathic pain), nerve crush, and nerve transection. In each type of injury, mice lacking iNOS had evidence of a regenerative delay, preceded by slowing of myelinated fiber Wallerian degeneration (WD). In wild-type mice, iNOS immunoreactivity and the presence and upregulation of its mRNA were demonstrated distal to injury, but neither was observed in the knockout mice. Slowed WD was suggested by the abnormal persistence of apparent myelinated fiber profiles distal to the injury zones in mice lacking iNOS compared to wild-type controls. In mice lacking iNOS there were fewer regenerating myelinated fibers, smaller caliber regenerating fibers, and slowed reinnervation of muscle endplates distal to the injury zone. Slowed degeneration was also associated with normal initiation but delayed expression of neuropathic pain. Our findings highlight important relationships among nitric oxide, WD, neuropathic pain, and axon regeneration.
Single-unit discharges were recorded in the medial superior temporal area (MST) of five behaving monkeys. Brief (230-ms) horizontal disparity steps were applied to large correlated or anticorrelated random-dot patterns (in which the dots had the same or opposite contrast, respectively, at the two eyes), eliciting vergence eye movements at short latencies [65.8 +/- 4.5 (SD) ms]. Disparity tuning curves, describing the dependence of the initial vergence responses (measured over the period 50-110 ms after the step) on the magnitude of the steps, resembled the derivative of a Gaussian, the curves obtained with correlated and anticorrelated patterns having opposite sign. Cells with disparity-related activity were isolated using correlated stimuli, and disparity tuning curves describing the dependence of these initial neuronal responses (measured over the period of 40-100 ms) on the magnitude of the disparity step were constructed (n = 102 cells). Using objective criteria and the fuzzy c-means clustering algorithm, disparity tuning curves were sorted into four groups based on their shapes. A post hoc comparison indicated that these four groups had features in common with four of the classes of disparity-selective neurons in striate cortex, but three of the four groups appeared to be part of a continuum. Most of the data were obtained from two monkeys, and when the disparity tuning curves of all the individual neurons recorded from either monkey were summed together, they fitted the disparity tuning curve for that same animal's vergence responses remarkably well (r(2): 0.93, 0.98). Fifty-six of the neurons recorded from these two monkeys were also tested with anticorrelated patterns, and all showed significant modulation of their activity (P &lt; 0.005, 1-way ANOVA). Further, when all of the disparity tuning curves obtained with these patterns from either monkey were summed together, they too fitted the disparity tuning curve for that same animal's vergence responses very well (r(2): 0.95, 0.96). Indeed, the summed activity even reproduced idiosyncratic differences in the vergence responses of the two monkeys. Based on these and other observations on the temporal coding of events, we hypothesize that the magnitude, direction, and time course of the initial vergence velocity responses associated with disparity steps applied to large patterns are all encoded in the summed activity of the disparity-sensitive cells in MST. Latency data suggest that this activity in MST occurs early enough to play an active role in the generation of vergence eye movements at short latencies.
Two forms of short-term plasticity at inhibitory synapses were investigated in adult rat striatal brain slices using intracellular recordings. Intrastriatal stimulation in the presence of the ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (20 microM) and D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (50 microM) produced an inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP) that reversed polarity at -76 +/- 1 (SE) mV and was sensitive to bicuculline (30 microM). The IPSP rectified at hyperpolarized membrane potentials due in part to activation of K(+) channels. The IPSP exhibited two forms of short-term plasticity, paired-pulse depression (PPD) and synaptic augmentation. PPD lasted for several seconds and was greatest at interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of several hundred milliseconds, reducing the IPSP to 80 +/- 2% of its control amplitude at an ISI of 200 ms. Augmentation of the IPSP, elicited by a conditioning train of 15 stimuli applied at 20 Hz, was 119 +/- 1% of control when sampled 2 s after the conditioning train. Augmentation decayed with a time constant of 10 s. We tested if PPD and augmentation modify the ability of the IPSP to prevent the generation of action potentials. A train of action potentials triggered by a depolarizing current injection of constant amplitude could be interrupted by stimulation of an IPSP. If this IPSP was the second in a pair of IPSPs, it was less effective in blocking spikes due to PPD. By contrast, augmented IPSPs were more effective in blocking spikes. The same results were achieved when action potentials were triggered by a depolarizing current injection of varying amplitude, a manipulation that produces nearly identical spike times from trial to trial and approximates the in vivo behavior of these neurons. These results demonstrate that short-term plasticity of inhibition can modify the output of the striatum and thus may be an important component of information processing during behaviors that involve the striatum.
It is well established that neural networks respond to a wide variety of modulatory substances by which they can become reconfigured, yet few studies have examined the effects of neurotransmitter mixtures on such networks. In a previous study of the medicinal leech using triple intracellular recordings, we found that stimulation of identified mechanosensory neurons activated both the serotonergic cell 21 (a swimgating neuron) and the dorsal lateral octopamine (DLO) cell. Because these findings suggested that serotonin (5-HT) and octopamine (OA) may be released together, we investigated the effects of 5-HT and OA mixtures on isolated nerve cords of Hirudo medicinalis (which contained both head and tail brains). Fifty micromolar OA, 50 microM 5-HT, or a mixture of 50 microM OA and 50 microM 5-HT was bath applied to the nerve cord under constant perfusion conditions. Additional experiments were performed with combinations of either 25 or 100 microM OA and 5-HT. Neural activity was examined specifically in the segmentally repeated dorsal posterior (DP) nerve because it has been shown to contain identified swim motor units. Nonadditive effects of amine combinations were most apparent in their ability to decrease overall activity in the DP nerve and to alter patterned motor activity in the form of fictive swimming. Whereas swim burst activity has been previously shown to increase in nerve cords bathed in either 5-HT or OA solutions alone, we demonstrated that a mixture of the two amines resulted in a robust decrease in the number of swim bursts expressed and an inhibition of swim activity in preparations already swimming. Most compelling was the observation that when the amine mixture was replaced with normal saline, swim burst activity increased dramatically. We discuss that the effects of amine mixtures may be due to their interaction with descending interneurons known to trigger and inhibit swimming as the mixture-induced effects were not observed in nerve cords lacking the head and tail brains. Because the net effect of the two amines was not simply additive (i.e., 5-HT or OA is known to activate swimming, yet the mix inhibits swimming), this result reveals yet another layer of complexity inherent in &quot;simpler&quot; invertebrate nervous systems.
Whole cell patch-clamp recording and intracellular staining with biocytin allowed the morphological and electrophysiological characterization of &quot;giant&quot; cells, studied in stratum (st.) radiatum of the CA3 region in 17- to 21-day-old rat hippocampal slices. These neurons had extensive dendritic arborization, a triangular soma, and a bipolar vertical orientation with axons directed to the pyramidal layer or extended into the st. oriens. Giant cells had significantly higher input resistance and shorter action potentials compared with CA3 pyramidal cells. Evoked action potentials were typically followed by an afterdepolarizing potential (ADP). During depolarizing current injection, most (80%) of recorded giant cells displayed a regular firing pattern (maximum steady-state firing rate, approximately 30 Hz) characterized by a modest early accommodation, whereas irregular firing was observed in the remaining 20% of giant cells. Hyperpolarizing current pulses induced a slow inward rectification of the electrotonic voltage responses, blocked by 2 mM external Cs(+). N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) measured under voltage clamp were distinguished on the basis of their voltage dependence and sensitivity to specific NMDA and non-NMDA glutamate receptor blockers. Non-NMDA EPSCs possessed a linear current-voltage relationship. EPSCs elicited by st. lucidum stimulation were reversibly reduced (mean, 23%) by the group II metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (2S, 1'R, 2'R, 3'R)-2-(2,3-dicarboxyl-cyclopropyl)-glycine (DCG-IV, 1 microM). GABA(A)-mediated postsynaptic currents were subject to paired-pulse depression that was inhibited by the GABA(B) antagonist CGP 55845A (5 microM). We conclude that CA3 giant cells represent a particular class of hippocampal neuron located in st. radiatum that shares only some morphological and physiological properties with principal cells.
Stratum (st.) radiatum interneurons represent a heterogeneous class of hippocampal cells with as yet poorly characterized physiological properties. Intracellular staining with biocytin, in situ hybridization, and patch-clamp recording have been combined to investigate the morphological and electrophysiological properties of these cells in the CA3 hippocampal region in young rats [postnatal days 10 to 21 (P10-21)]. Labeled cells presented a heterogeneous morphology with various soma shapes, often found multipolar, and dendritic arborizations confined to st. radiatum. The passive membrane properties of these st. radiatum interneurons showed instead no significant differences between P10 and P21. Low resting potential, high-input resistance, and short time constants characterized CA3 st. radiatum interneurons, which were silent at rest. Action potentials, elicited by brief current pulses, were lower and shorter than in pyramidal cells and followed by a Ca(2+)-dependent medium-duration afterhyperpolarizing potential (mAHP). Prolonged depolarizing current injection generated trains of action potentials that fired at constant frequency after a slight accommodation. The maximum steady-state firing rate was 31 +/- 4 (SD) Hz. Hyperpolarizing current pulses revealed a prominent inward rectification characterized by a &quot;sag,&quot; followed by a depolarizing rebound that triggered action potentials. Sag and anodal brake excitation were blocked by Cs(+), suggesting that they were mediated by a hyperpolarization-activated cation conductance (I(h)). In the presence of tetrodotoxin and tetraethylammonium, biphasic tail currents were elicited in voltage clamp after a depolarizing step inducing Ca(2+) influx. Tail currents presented a fast Ca(2+)-activated and apamin-sensitive component (I(AHP)) and were further reduced by carbachol. The presence of I(AHP) was consistent with the high expression level of the apamin-sensitive SK2 subunit transcript in CA3 st. radiatum interneurons as detected by in situ hybridization. Different pharmacological agents were shown to affect the afterhyperpolarizing potential as well as the firing properties of st. radiatum interneurons. Exposure to Ca(2+)-free solutions mainly affected the late phase of repolarization and strongly reduced the mAHP. The mAHP was also attenuated by carbachol and by apamin, suggesting it to be partly mediated by I(AHP). Reduction of the mAHP increased the interneuron firing frequency. In conclusion, st. radiatum interneurons of CA3 hippocampal region represent a class of nonpyramidal cells with action potentials followed by an AHP of relatively short duration, partially generated by apamin and carbachol-sensitive conductances involved in the regulation of the cell firing rate.
Recent experiments have demonstrated that normal neural activity can cause significant decrements in external calcium levels, and that these decrements mediate a form of short-term synaptic depression. These findings raise the possibility that certain forms of short-term synaptic depression at glutamatergic synapses throughout the mammalian CNS may be influenced by similar changes in external calcium. We use a computational model of the extracellular space, combined with experimental data on calcium consumption, to show that such short-term depression can be accounted for by changes in calcium just outside active synapses, provided that external calcium diffusion is restricted. Remarkably, the model suggests the novel possibility that synapses may possess private pools of external calcium that enforce some forms of short-term depression in a synapse-specific manner.
To localize a seen object, the CNS has to integrate the object's retinal location with the direction of gaze. Here we investigate this process by examining the localization of static objects during smooth pursuit eye movements. The normally experienced stability of the visual world during smooth pursuit suggests that the CNS essentially compensates for the eye movement when judging target locations. However, certain systematic localization errors are made, and we use these to study the process of sensorimotor integration. During an eye movement, a static object's image moves across the retina. Objects that produce retinal slip are known to be mislocalized: objects moving toward the fovea are seen too far on in their trajectory, whereas errors are much smaller for objects moving away from the fovea. These effects are usually studied by localizing the moving object relative to a briefly flashed one during fixation: moving objects are then mislocalized, but flashes are not. In our first experiment, we found that a similar differential mislocalization occurs for static objects relative to flashes during pursuit. This effect is not specific for horizontal pursuit but was also found in other directions. In a second experiment, we examined how this effect generalizes to positions outside the line of eye movement. We found that large localization errors were found in the entire hemifield ahead of the pursuit target and were predominantly aligned with the direction of eye movement. In a third experiment, we determined whether it is the flash or the static object that is mislocalized ahead of the pursuit target. In contrast to fixation conditions, we found that during pursuit it is the flash, not the static object, which is mislocalized. In a fourth experiment, we used egocentric localization to confirm this result. Our results suggest that the CNS compensates for the retinal localization errors to maintain position constancy for static objects during pursuit. This compensation is achieved in the process of sensorimotor integration of retinal and gaze signals: different retinal areas are integrated with different gaze signals to guarantee the stability of the visual world.
We have used multiple-labeling immunohistochemistry, intracellular dye-filling, and intracellular microelectrode recordings to characterize the distribution of tachykinin receptors and substance P boutons on subpopulations of neurons within the guinea pig celiac ganglion. Superfusion of substance P (SP, 1 microM for 1 min) depolarized 42% of tonic neurons and inhibited afterhyperpolarizations in 66% of long afterhyperpolarizing (LAH) neurons without significant desensitization. Twenty-one percent of tonic neurons and 24% of LAH neurons responded to the NK(3) agonist senktide but did not respond to SP, indicating SP did not activate NK(3) receptors at this concentration. All effects of SP were abolished by the selective NK(1) receptor antagonist, SR140333, but not by the selective NK(3) receptor antagonist, SR142801, suggesting that exogenous SP activated a receptor with NK(1) pharmacology. No dye-filled LAH neuron and only 50% of tonic neurons responding to SP expressed NK(1) receptor immunoreactivity (NK(1)-IR). All neurons responding to SP had SP immunoreactive fibers within one cell diameter, indicating good spatial matching between SP release sites and target neurons. These results indicate that SP may act via a receptor with NK(1)-like pharmacology that has a C terminus not recognized by antibodies to the intracellular domain of the conventional NK(1) receptor. Inward currents evoked by SP acting on this NK(1)-like receptor or senktide acting through NK(3) receptors had identical current-voltage relationships. In LAH neurons, both agonists suppressed I(sAHP) without reducing I(AHP). Responses evoked by SP and senktide were resistant to PKC inhibitors, suggesting that the transduction mechanisms for the NK(1)-like receptor and the NK(3) receptor may be similar.
An important issue in neuroscience is the effect of visual loss on the remaining senses. Two opposing views have been advanced. On the one hand, visual loss may lead to compensatory plasticity and sharpening of the remaining senses. On the other hand, early blindness may also prevent remaining sensory modalities from a full development. In the case of sound localization, it has been reported recently that, under certain conditions, early-blind humans can localize sounds better than sighted controls. However, these studies were confined to a single sound source in the horizontal plane. This study compares sound localization of early-blind and sighted subjects in both the horizontal and vertical domain, whereas background noise was added to test more complex hearing conditions. The data show that for high signal-to-noise (S/N) ratios, localization by blind and sighted subjects is similar for both azimuth and elevation. At decreasing S/N ratios, the accuracy of the elevation response components deteriorated earlier than the accuracy of the azimuth component in both subject groups. However, although azimuth performance was identical for the two groups, elevation accuracy deteriorated much earlier in the blind subject group. These results indicate that auditory hypercompensation in early-blind humans does not extend to the frontal target domain, where the potential benefit of vision is maximal. Moreover, the results demonstrate for the first time that in this domain the human auditory system may require vision to optimally calibrate the elevation-related spectral pinna cues. Sensitivity to azimuth-encoding binaural difference cues, however, may be adequately calibrated in the absence of vision.
This study addressed the neural mediation of discriminative avoidance learning, wherein rabbits step in a wheel apparatus in response to an acoustic conditional stimulus, the CS+, to avoid a foot shock, and they learn to ignore a different stimulus, the CS-, not followed by foot shock. Previously, muscimol-induced inactivation of the amygdala in the first session of training prevented learning during the inactivation and permanently blocked the development of discriminative training-induced neuronal activity (TIA) in the medial division of the medial geniculate nucleus (MGm). These results suggested that amygdalar neurons induce discriminative TIA in the MGm via basolateral (BL) amygdalar axonal projections to the auditory cortex. To test this hypothesis, the activity of neurons in the MGm was recorded during learning in rabbits with lesions of the auditory cortex. Recordings were also made in the lateral and BL amygdalar nuclei and in the cingulate cortex. In support of the hypothesis, discriminative learning in rabbits with lesions was impaired significantly during early training sessions 1-4; in these same sessions, discriminative TIA was abolished in the MGm, the BL nucleus, and the anterior cingulate cortex. The lesions also blocked posterior cingulate cortical discriminative TIA in training sessions 1-2 but spared TIA in sessions 3-7. Lateral amygdalar neurons showed gradual development of discrimination that was not significantly affected by the lesions. The results demonstrate a critical role of auditory cortex in early discriminative learning and in the production of early discriminative TIA in multiple areas.
The activation of delta-opioid receptors (DORs) in the caudate-putamen nucleus (CPN) produces regionally distinct changes in motor functions, many of which are also influenced by opioids active at micro-opioid receptors (MORs). These actions most likely occur in MOR-enriched patch compartments in the CPN. To determine the functional sites for DOR activation and potential interactions involving MOR in these regions, immunoperoxidase and immunogold-silver labeling methods were applied reversibly for the ultrastructural localization of DOR and MOR in single rat brain sections containing patches of the CPN. DOR immunoreactivity was commonly seen within the cytoplasm of spiny and aspiny neurons, many of which also expressed MOR. In dendrites and spines, DOR labeling was preferentially localized to membranes of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and spine apparatus, whereas MOR showed a prominent plasmalemmal distribution. DOR- and/or MOR-labeled spines received asymmetric, excitatory synapses, some of which showed notable perforations, suggesting the involvement of these receptors in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. DORs were more frequently detected than were MORs within axon terminals that formed either asymmetric synapses with spine heads or symmetric synapses with spine necks. Our results suggest that in striatal patches, DORs, often in cooperation with MORs, play a direct modulatory role in controlling the postsynaptic excitability of spines, whereas presynaptic neurotransmitter release onto spines is mainly influenced by DOR activation. In comparison with MOR, the prevalent association of DOR with cytoplasmic organelles that are involved in intracellular trafficking of cell surface proteins suggests major differences in availability of these receptors to extracellular opioids.
Dopamine in dialysate from the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) increases during sexual and feeding behavior and after administration of drugs of abuse, even those that do not directly activate dopaminergic systems (e.g., morphine or nicotine). These findings and others have led to hypotheses that propose that dopamine is rewarding, predicts that reinforcement will occur, or attributes incentive salience. Examining increases in dopamine in NAcc or striatum during sexual behavior in female rats provides a unique situation to study these relations. This is because, for the female rat, sexual behavior is associated with an increase in NAcc dopamine and conditioned place preference only under certain testing conditions. This experiment was conducted to determine what factors are important for the increase in dopamine in dialysate from NAcc and striatum during sexual behavior in female rats. The factors considered were the number of contacts by the male, the timing of contacts by the male, or the ability of the female to control contacts by the male. The results indicate that increased NAcc dopamine is dependent on the timing of copulatory stimuli, independent of whether the female rat is actively engaged in regulating this timing. For the striatum, the timing of copulatory behavior influences the magnitude of the increase in dopamine in dialysate, but other factors are also involved. We conclude that increased extracellular dopamine in the NAcc and striatum conveys qualitative or interpretive information about the rewarding value of stimuli. Sexual behavior in the female rat is proposed as a model to determine the role of dopamine in motivated behavior.
We studied how object speed is reconstructed from the responses of motion-selective cells for the generation of a behavior that is tightly linked to the speed of visual motion. In theory, the speed of an object could be estimated either from the speed tuning of the active population of motion-selective cells or from the rate of displacement of activation across the cortical map of visual space. We measured the pursuit eye movements evoked by stimuli containing two conflicting motion components: a local component designed to excite motion-selective cells with a particular speed tuning and a displacement component designed to excite cells with a sequence of spatial receptive fields. Pursuit eye movements were driven primarily by the local-motion component and were affected to only a small degree by the rate of target displacement across visual space. Extracellular single-unit recordings using the same stimuli revealed that the responses of cells in the middle temporal visual area (MT) depended primarily on the local-motion component but were influenced by the displacement component to the same degree as were pursuit eye movements. We conclude that the initiation of pursuit is consistent with a reconstruction of target speed based on the speed tuning of the active population of MT cells.
The precision of projections from dorsal thalamus to neocortex are key toward understanding overall cortical organization and function. To identify the significance of layer 4 cells in receiving the bulk of thalamic projections in somatosensory cortex, we disrupted layer 4 genesis and studied the effect on thalamic terminations in ferrets. Second, we ascertained the result of layer 4 disruption on functional responses and topographic organization. Methylazoxy methanol (MAM) was injected into pregnant ferrets on embryonic day 33 (E33), when most layer 4 neurons of somatosensory cortex are generated. This treatment resulted in dramatic reduction in the thickness of targeted layer 4. E38 MAM treatment was used as a control, when layer 2-3 neurons are generated. The projections of ventrobasal thalamus into somatosensory cortex were studied using DiI injections. We found only subtle differences between groups (normal, E33, or E38 MAM-treated) in the thalamic afferent pattern on postnatal day 1 (P1) and P7. On P14, thalamic terminations distribute almost equally throughout the remaining cortical layers in the E33 MAM-treated group compared with normal and E38 MAM-treated animals, in which the ventrobasal thalamus projects primarily to central layers. Electrophysiological recordings conducted on mature ferrets treated with MAM on E33 demonstrated that somatotopic organization and receptive field size are normal. These findings emphasize the importance of layer 4 in determining the normal laminar pattern of thalamic termination and suggest that, although its absence is likely to impact on complex neocortical functional responses, topographic organization does not arise from the influence of layer 4.
Interleukin-10 (IL-10) has been shown to reduce neuronal degeneration after CNS injury. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the neuroprotective properties of this cytokine are still under investigation. Glutamate exacerbates secondary injury caused by trauma. Thus, we examined whether IL-10 prevents glutamate-mediated cell death. We used rat cerebellar granule cells in culture because these neurons undergo apoptosis upon exposure to toxic concentrations of glutamate (100-500 microm) or NMDA (300 microm). Pretreatment of cerebellar granule cells with IL-10 (1-50 ng/ml) elicited a dose- and time-dependent reduction of glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. Most importantly, IL-10 reduced the number of apoptotic cells when added to the cultures together or 1 hr after glutamate. Using patch-clamping and fluorescence Ca(2+) imaging techniques, we examined whether IL-10 prevents glutamate toxicity by blocking the function of NMDA channel. IL-10 failed to affect NMDA channel properties and to reduce NMDA-mediated rise in intracellular Ca(2+). Thus, this cytokine appears to prevent glutamate toxicity by a mechanism unrelated to a blockade of NMDA receptor function. Various proteases, such as caspase-3, and transcription factors, such as nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB), have been proposed to participate in glutamate-mediated apoptosis. Thus, we examined whether IL-10 modulates the activity of these apoptotic markers. IL-10 blocked both the glutamate-mediated induction of caspase-3 as well as NF-kappaB DNA binding activity, suggesting that the neuroprotective properties of IL-10 may rely on its ability to block the activity of proapoptotic proteins.
Membrane-associated guanylate kinases (MAGUKs) are abundant postsynaptic density (PSD)-95/discs large/zona occludens-1 (PDZ)-containing proteins that can assemble receptors and associated signaling enzymes at sites of cell-cell contact, including synapses. PSD-93, a postsynaptic neuronal MAGUK, has three PDZ domains that can bind to specific ion channels, including NMDA delta2 type glutamate receptors, as well as Shaker and inward rectifier type K(+) channels, and can mediate clustering of these channels in heterologous cells. Genetic analyses of Drosophila show that MAGUKs play critical roles in synaptic development because mutations of discs large disrupt the subsynaptic reticulum and block postsynaptic clustering of Shaker K(+) channels. It is uncertain whether MAGUKs play an essential role in the development of central synapses. There are four neuronal MAGUKs with overlapping expression patterns in the mammalian brain; however, we find PSD-93 is the only MAGUK expressed in cerebellar Purkinje neurons. Therefore, we targeted disruption of PSD-93 in mouse. Despite the absence of MAGUK immunoreactivity in Purkinje neurons from the knock-outs, these mice have no structural or functional abnormality in cerebellum. Both the dendritic architecture and the postsynaptic localization of PSD-93 interacting proteins remain intact at light and electron microscopic levels in the knock-outs. Postsynaptic Purkinje cell responses, monosynaptic climbing fiber innervation, and cerebellar-dependent behaviors are also normal. Our data demonstrate that MAGUK proteins of the PSD-93/95 family are not essential for development of certain central synapses but may instead participate in specialized aspects of synaptic signaling and plasticity.
Neurotrophin-4 (NT-4) is perhaps the still most enigmatic member of the neurotrophin family. We show here that NT-4 is expressed in neurons of paravertebral and prevertebral sympathetic ganglia, i.e., the superior cervical (SCG), stellate (SG), and celiac (CG) ganglion. Mice deficient for NT-4 showed a significant reduction (20-30%) of preganglionic sympathetic neurons in the intermediolateral column (IML) of the thoracic spinal cord. In contrast, neuron numbers in the SCG, SG, and CG were unchanged. Numbers of axons in the thoracic sympathetic trunk (TST) connecting the SG with lower paravertebral ganglia were also reduced, whereas axon numbers in the cervical sympathetic trunk (CST) were unaltered. Axon losses in the TST were paralleled by losses of synaptic terminals on SG neurons visualized by electron microscopy. Furthermore, immunoreactivity for the synaptic vesicle antigen SV2 was clearly reduced in the SG and CG. Levels of catecholamines and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity were dramatically reduced in the SG and the CG but not in the SCG. Despite this severe phenotype in the sympathetic system, blood pressure levels were not reduced and displayed a pattern more typical of deficits in baroreceptor afferents. Numbers of IML neurons were unaltered at postnatal day 4, suggesting a postnatal requirement for their maintenance. In light of these and previous data, we hypothesize that NT-4 provided by postganglionic sympathetic neurons is required for establishing and/or maintaining synapses of IML neurons on postganglionic cells. Impairment of synaptic connectivity may consequently reduce impulse flow, causing a reduction in transmitter synthesis in postganglionic neurons.
Histaminergic neurons of the tuberomammillary nucleus (TM) project monosynaptically to the supraoptic nucleus (SON). This projection remains intact in our hypothalamic slices and permits investigation of both brief synaptic responses and the effects of repetitively activating this pathway. SON oxytocin (OX) neurons respond to single TM stimuli with fast IPSPs, whose kinetics resemble those of GABA(A) or glycine receptors. IPSPs were blocked by the Cl(-) channel blocker picrotoxin, but not by bicuculline or strychnine, and by histamine H(2), but not by H(1) or H(3) receptor antagonists, suggesting the presence of an ionotropic histamine receptor and the possible nonspecificity of currently used H(2) antagonists. G-protein mediation of the IPSPs was ruled out using guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) (GDP-betaS), pertussis toxin, and Rp-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphothioate triethylamine (Rp-cAMPs), none of which blocked evoked IPSPs. We also investigated the effects of synaptically released histamine on dye coupling and neuronal excitability. One hundred seventy-three OX neurons were Lucifer yellow-injected in horizontal slices. Repetitive TM stimulation (10 Hz, 5-10 min) reduced coupling, an effect blocked by H(2), but not by H(1) or H(3), receptor antagonists. Because H(2) receptors are linked to activation of adenylyl cyclase, TM-stimulated reduction in coupling was blocked by GDP-betaS, pertussis toxin, and Rp-cAMPs and was mimicked by 8-bromo-cAMP, 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, and Sp-cAMP. Membrane potentials of OX and vasopressin neurons were hyperpolarized, accompanied by decreased conductances, in response to bath application of 8-bromo-cAMP but not the membrane-impermeable cAMP. These results suggest that synaptically released histamine, in addition to evoking fast IPSPs in OX cells, mediates a prolonged decrease in excitability and uncoupling of the neurons.
We investigated the role of protein kinase C (PKC) in cell mu-opioid receptor (MOR) internalization and MOR-mediated acute tolerance in vivo. When Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing MOR were exposed to [D-Ala(2),MePhe(4),Gly-ol(5)]-enkephalin (DAMGO), receptor internalization was observed at 30 min. Incubation with morphine failed to induce receptor internalization. When calphostin C, a PKC inhibitor, was added, receptor internalization was observed as early as 10 min after morphine stimulation. The MOR internalization induced by DAMGO or morphine in the presence of calphostin C was dynamin dependent, because it was abolished 2 d after pretreatment with recombinant adenovirus to express a dominant interfering dynamin mutant (K44A/dynamin adenovirus). On the other hand, in a peripheral nociception test in mice, the nociceptive flexor response after intraplantar injection (i.pl.) of bradykinin was markedly inhibited by DAMGO (i.pl.). DAMGO analgesia was not affected by 2 hr prior injection (i.pl.) of DAMGO. Marked acute tolerance was observed after pretreatment with dynamin antisense oligodeoxynucleotide or K44A/dynamin adenovirus. The DAMGO-induced acute tolerance under such pretreatments was inhibited by calphostin C. Together, these findings suggest that PKC desensitizes MOR or has a role in the development of acute tolerance through MOR by inhibiting internalization mechanisms as a resensitization process.
N-type Ca(2+) channels are modulated by a variety of G-protein-coupled pathways. Some pathways produce a transient, voltage-dependent (VD) inhibition of N channel function and involve direct binding of G-protein subunits; others require the activation of intermediate enzymes and produce a longer-lasting, voltage-independent (VI) form of inhibition. The ratio of VD:VI inhibition differs significantly among cell types, suggesting that the two forms of inhibition play unique physiological roles in the nervous system. In this study, we explored mechanisms capable of altering the balance of VD and VI inhibition in chick dorsal root ganglion neurons. We report that (1) VD:VI inhibition is critically dependent on the Gbetagamma concentration, with VI inhibition dominant at low Gbetagamma concentrations, and (2) syntaxin-1A (but not syntaxin-1B) shifts the ratio in favor of VD inhibition by potentiating the VD effects of Gbetagamma. Variations in expression levels of G-proteins and/or syntaxin provide the means to alter over a wide range both the extent and the rate of Ca(2+) influx through N channels.
We have reported recently that syntaxin 1A mediates two effects on N-type channels transiently expressed in tsA-201 cells: a hyperpolarizing shift in the steady-state inactivation curve as well as a tonic inhibition of the channel by G-protein betagamma subunits (Jarvis et al., 2000). Here we have examined some of the molecular determinants and factors that modulate the action of syntaxin 1A on N-type calcium channels. With the additional coexpression of SNAP25, the syntaxin 1A-induced G-protein modulation of the channel became reduced in magnitude by approximately 50% but nonetheless remained significantly higher than the low levels of background inhibition seen with N-type channels alone. In contrast, coexpression of nSec-1 did not reduce the syntaxin 1A-mediated G-protein inhibition; however, interestingly, nSec-1 was able to induce tonic G-protein inhibition even in the absence of syntaxin 1A. Both SNAP25 and nSec-1 blocked the negative shift in half-inactivation potential that was induced by syntaxin 1A. Activation of protein kinase C via phorbol esters or site-directed mutagenesis of three putative PKC consensus sites in the syntaxin 1A binding region of the channel (S802, S896, S898) to glutamic acid (to mimic a permanently phosphorylated state) did not affect the syntaxin 1A-mediated G-protein modulation of the channel. However, in the S896E and S898E mutants, or after PKC-dependent phosphorylation of the wild-type channels, the susceptibility of the channel to undergo shifts in half-inactivation potential was removed. Thus, separate molecular determinants govern the ability of syntaxin 1A to affect N-type channel gating and its modulation by G-proteins.
When cultured cerebellar granule neurons (CGN) are transferred from 25 mM KCl (K25) to 5 mM KCl (K5) caspase-3 and caspase-8, but not caspase-1 or caspase-9,activities are induced and cells die apoptotically. CGN death was triggered by a [Ca(2+)](i) modification when [Ca(2+)](i) was reduced from 300 nM to 50 nM in a K5 medium. The [Ca(2+)](i) changes were followed by an increase in ROS levels. The generation of both cytosolic and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) occurred at three different times, 10 min, 30 min and 3--4 hr but only those ROS produced after 3--4 hr are involved in the process of cell death. When CGN cultured in a K5 medium are treated with different antioxidants like scavengers of ROS (mannitol, DMSO) or antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase and catalase) phosphatidylserine translocation, caspase activity, chromatin condensation and cell death is markedly diminished. The protective effect of antioxidants is not mediated through a modification in [Ca(2+)](i). Caspase activation, PS translocation and chromatin condensation were downstream of ROS production. In contrast to H(2)O(2), ROS produced by a xanthine/xanthine oxidase system in CGN cultured in K25 were able to directly induce caspase-3 activation and death that resulted sensitive to z-VAD, a caspase inhibitor. These findings indicate that a reduction in [Ca(2+)](i) triggers CGN death by inducing a generation of ROS after 3--4 hr, which could play a critical role in the initial phases of the apoptotic process including PS translocation, chromatin condensation and the activation of initiator and executor caspases.
Telomerase is an enzyme activity consisting of a reverse transcriptase called TERT and an RNA component that adds repeats of a DNA sequence (TTAGGG) to the ends of chromosomes, thereby preventing their shortening. Associations between telomerase activity and proliferation and differentiation of neural tumor cells and neural stem cells have been reported, but the role of telomerase in brain development is unknown. We now report analyses of telomerase activity, TERT mRNA levels and levels of mRNAs encoding the telomere-associated proteins TRF1 and TRF2 in three different brain regions (brainstem, hippocampus and cerebral cortex) and the eye of mice at increasing developmental time points. Telomerase activity is high in the brain at embryonic day 13 (E13), declines markedly between E13 and E18, remains at a low level until postnatal day 3 (P3) and becomes undetectable by P10. Surprisingly, the temporal pattern of change in telomerase activity is not paralleled by a decrease in levels of TERT mRNA that remain elevated from E13 to P5 (with fluctuations during this time window that vary among brain regions), and then decrease to a lower level that is maintained into adulthood. TRF1 and TRF2 mRNA levels are relatively constant throughout brain development. Our data are consistent with a role for telomerase activity in proliferation of neural progenitor cells, and further suggest that TERT may play roles in neuronal differentiation and survival. The dissociation between TERT expression and telomerase activity is a novel finding that suggests biological functions for TERT in addition to telomere maintenance. J. Neurosci. Res. 64:252-260, 2001. Published 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

The action of FK960 [N-(4-acetyl-1-piperazinyl)-p-fluorobenzamide monohydrate], a novel cognitive enhancer, on excitatory synaptic transmission in the hippocampus was investigated. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and currents (EPSCs) were recorded intracellularly from CA1 neurons in rat hippocampus using the &quot;blind patch&quot; variant of whole-cell recording. FK960 (100 nM) significantly increased the amplitude of the EPSP, which was unchanged when changeover was made to control artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF). FK960 had no significant action on membrane potential, input resistance, or the early GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic current. The decay phase of the excitatory postsynaptic current was not significantly altered by exposure to FK960, indicating that the properties of desensitization and/or deactivation were unchanged and suggesting that the action of FK960 was unlikely to be the result of changes in the properties of the postsynaptic (S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid (AMPA) receptors. The quantal content of the EPSP (1/CV(2)) increased after exposure to FK960 but not to control aCSF. Methyllycaconitine or alpha-bungarotoxin blocked the modulatory action of FK960 on the EPSP, and the finding that these alpha 7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha 7nAChR) antagonists were effective raises the possibility that FK960 up-regulates the contribution of acetylcholine to synaptic efficacy in the hippocampus. It is concluded that FK960 increases the quantal release of glutamate from Schaffer collateral-commissural nerve terminals in area CA1 of the hippocampus either by changing the ambient level of acetylcholine or by positively modulating the activity of alpha 7nAChRs located on glutamatergic nerve terminals.
The active site tripeptide arginal inhibitor of thrombin, LY287045, was used to study thrombin-induced aortic relaxation and contraction, two responses that differ both pharmacologically and physiologically. Although thrombin (10(-7) M) and trypsin (10(-6) M) were tachyphylactic upon repeated administration, trypsin contracted the aorta following thrombin-induced contraction. LY287045 (10(-7) M) attenuated thrombin-induced vasorelaxation, but not vasoconstriction with -log K(B) of 8.4. LY287045 (10(-7) M) also attenuated vasorelaxation, but not vasoconstriction to trypsin, another serine-protease with a thrombin-like catalytic triad, with similar potency (-log K(B) = 8.6) to that for thrombin. Consistent with these vascular effects, LY287045 inhibited the protease activity of both thrombin and trypsin. To explore further the selective inhibitory effect of LY287045 on protease-induced relaxation, we examined the effect of LY287045 on the nitric oxide and prostacyclin pathways and found that LY287045 did not alter vascular responses mediated by nitric oxide or prostacyclin. Likewise, LY287045 did not exert a direct inhibitory effect on the relaxant protease-activated receptor (PAR) since relaxation to the PAR-2-activating peptide was not blocked. The selective effect of LY287045 to inhibit only protease-induced endothelial-dependent relaxation demonstrated that protease inhibition will not affect all protease responses equally. Furthermore, increases in trypsin and thrombin have been associated with inflammation and angiogenesis. To the extent that these findings suggest that LY287045 exhibit dual protease inhibition of endothelial responses, LY287045 may have specific utility in hypotensive inflammatory diseases and in cancer metastases where both trypsin and thrombin have been implicated as causative agents.
The application of transgenic (knockout) technology to the study of pain is rapidly expanding. Despite its power, this technique has several shortcomings that complicate the interpretation of the data obtained. Although compensation by other genes is a well recognized problem, issues related to the background genotype of the mutant mice are less well appreciated. This review describes these confounds as they apply to studies of pain and pain inhibition. We show that the 129 and C57BL/6 mouse strains, which provide the default genetic background on which null mutants are constructed, display significant and sometimes extreme phenotypic differences in many assays of nociception, hypersensitivity, and analgesia. Although problems related to the differential responsiveness of the two strains are minimized by placing knockouts onto &quot;pure&quot; 129 and/or C57BL/6 backgrounds, we also illustrate that neither of these strains are particularly representative of inbred mice in general. Procedures to reduce confounds and converging evidence must be used to accurately determine the functions of the targeted genes in pain-related phenomena.
This study tests the hypothesis that target size regulates the size of myelinated sensory and motor fibres in peripheral nerves. Cat medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscles were partially denervated and the size of the remaining nerve fibres that sprouted was examined 6.4 +/- 0.9 months later to determine whether nerve fibre size increased with target size. Electrophysiological and morphometric analyses were used to quantify myelinated nerve fibre size. Charge measurements from dorsal and ventral roots were used to electrophysiologically quantify the relative number of cut nerve fibres and the average size of the remaining intact sensory and motor nerve fibres. Medial gastrocnemius muscle and motor unit forces provided indirect measurements of the increase in target size. Conduction velocities and amplitude of unitary action potentials of motor nerve fibres innervating single motor units were also measured after partial denervation. Electrophysiological measurements of nerve fibre size and morphometric measurements of outer fibre perimeters and fibre areas concurred and demonstrated that myelinated nerve fibres supplying partially denervated MG muscles did not increase in size in parallel with the increase in the target size. Thus, unlike non-myelinated nerve fibres, the size of myelinated nerve fibres does not increase as target size increases. Retrograde control of size in non-myelinated but not in myelinated nerve fibres demonstrates differences in plasticity of neurons in the somatic and autonomic nervous systems.
In the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, activation of small fibre nociceptive afferents leads to the release of nitric oxide and enkephalins by interneurons. In this work we encountered unexpected relationships among local spinal cord dorsal horn blood flow, specific forms of afferent input, nitric oxide and intrinsic opioids. Selective rises in rat lumbar dorsal cord blood flow using laser Doppler flowmetry and microelectrode hydrogen clearance polarography were generated by ipsilateral, 'nociceptive' low (3 Hz) frequency stimulation of sciatic afferents. Inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) prevented rises in flow during stimulation without influencing baseline flow. Ipsilateral hindpaw intradermal injection of capsaicin, a nociceptive activator, also generated large rises in flow sensitive to NOS inhibition. During NOS blockade or morphine administration there were unexpected acute declines in the dorsal cord blood flow strictly confined to low frequency stimulation epochs. This acute vasoconstrictive effect was prevented by administration of an opioid receptor antagonist. Using immunohistochemistry, terminals apparently innervating dorsal spinal cord blood vessels were labelled with antibodies against neuronal NOS and met-enkephalin. We conclude that local nitric oxide and opioids, probably from interneurons, have competitive actions on dorsal horn microvessels once interneurons are activated during a nociceptive barrage. Collateral innervation of blood vessels may explain this property.
We previously reported that oxytocin (OXT), released from the dendrites of magnocellular neurons in the supraoptic nucleus (SON), acts retrogradely on presynaptic terminals to inhibit glutamatergic transmission. Here we test the hypothesis that oxytocin reduces calcium influx into the presynaptic terminal. We used nystatin perforated-patch recording in vitro to first identify the calcium channels involved in glutamatergic transmission in the SON. [omega]-Conotoxin GVIA ([omega]-CTx) and [omega]-Agatoxin TK ([omega]-Aga) both reduced evoked EPSC amplitude, while nicardipine and nickel had no effect. A combination of [omega]-CTx and [omega]-Aga completely abolished the evoked EPSCs. This depressant effect was accompanied by an increase in the paired pulse ratio with no change in the kinetics of the evoked EPSCs, AMPA currents or postsynaptic cell properties. These results suggest that presynaptic N- and P/Q-type calcium channels mediate glutamate release in the SON while L-, T- and R-type channels make little or no contribution. Oxytocin-induced reduction of the evoked EPSC was substantially occluded in the presence of [omega]-CTx but only partially in the presence of [omega]-Aga. Amastatin, an endopeptidase inhibitor that increases the level of endogenous OXT, also reduced the evoked EPSC. This amastatin effect was also occluded by [omega]-CTx and [omega]-Aga. Miniature EPSCs, which are independent of extracellular calcium, were unaffected by either [omega]-CTx or by OXT, thus further substantiating an action of both compounds on calcium channels. Therefore, dendritically released oxytocin acts mainly via a mechanism involving the N-type channel, and to a lesser extent the P/Q-type channel, to decrease excitatory transmission.
We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to identify brain regions involved in syntactic and semantic processing. Healthy adult males read well-formed sentences randomly intermixed with sentences which either contained violations of syntactic structure or were semantically implausible. Reading anomalous sentences, as compared to well-formed sentences, yielded distinct patterns of activation for the two violation types. Syntactic violations elicited significantly greater activation than semantic violations primarily in superior frontal cortex. Semantically incongruent sentences elicited greater activation than syntactic violations in the left hippocampal and parahippocampal gyri, the angular gyri bilaterally, the right middle temporal gyrus, and the left inferior frontal sulcus. These results demonstrate that syntactic and semantic processing result in nonidentical patterns of activation, including greater frontal engagement during syntactic processing and larger increases in temporal and temporo-parietal regions during semantic analyses.
In this contribution, we review an ERP experiment and an fMRI experiment which investigated the processing of German wh-questions. On the basis of the ERP results, we will discuss current models of sentence processing and resource distribution during sentence comprehension. We argue that there exists a separate cognitive or neural resource that supports syntactic working memory processes necessary for the temporary maintenance of syntactic information for the parser. In the context of wh-movement, such a memory component is necessary for establishing filler-gap dependencies. The data obtained from the fMRI experiment will be used to discuss the results of previous neuroimaging studies of sentence processing. It is claimed that syntactic working memory, rather than syntactic processing per se, is supported by Broca's Area.
Just as the false comma in this sentence, shows punctuation can influence sentence processing considerably. Pauses and other prosodic cues in spoken language serve the same function of structuring the sentence in smaller phrases. However, surprisingly little effort has been spent on the question as to whether both phenomena rest on the same mechanism and whether they are equally efficient in guiding parsing decisions. In a recent study, we showed that auditory speech boundaries evoke a specific positive shift in the listeners' event-related brain potentials (ERPs) that indicates the sentence segmentation and resulting changes in the understanding of the utterance (Steinhauer et al., 1999a). Here, we present three ERP reading experiments demonstrating that the human brain processes commas in a similar manner and that comma perception depends crucially on the reader's individual punctuation habits. Main results of the study are: (1) Commas can determine initial parsing as efficiently as speech boundaries because they trigger the same prosodic phrasing covertly, although phonological representations seem to be activated to a lesser extent. (2) Independent of the input modality, this phrasing is reflected online by the same ERP component, namely the Closure Positive Shift (CPS). (3) Both behavioral and ERP data suggest that comma processing varies with the readers' idiosyncratic punctuation habits. (4) A combined auditory and visual ERP experiment shows that the CPS is also elicited both by delexicalized prosody and while subjects replicate prosodic boundaries during silent reading. (5) A comma-induced reversed garden path turned out to be much more difficult than the classical garden path. Implications for psycholinguistic models and future ERP research are discussed.
German sentences which were either correct, contained a selectional restriction violation, or a word category violation were presented auditorily to 16 native speakers of German (L1 group) and to 16 native speakers of Russian, who had learned German after the age of 10 (L2 group). Semantic violations elicited an N400 effect for both groups, but with a reduced amplitude and a longer peak latency in the L2 group. Compared to correct sentences, sentences with a phrase structure violation elicited an early anterior negativity followed by a broad centro-parietal positivity in native speakers. By contrast, there was no differential modulation of the early anterior negativity in the L2 group. A late positivity was also elicited in the second language learners, but it was slightly delayed compared to that shown by native speakers. This pattern is discussed in terms of different degrees of automaticity with respect to the subprocesses involved in sentence comprehension.
The neural network supporting aspects of syntactic, prosodic, and semantic information processing is specified on the basis of two experiments using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In these two studies, the presence/absence of lexical-semantic and syntactic information is systematically varied in spoken language stimuli. Inferior frontal and temporal brain areas in the left and the right hemisphere are identified to support different aspects of auditory language processing. Two additional experiments using event-related brain potentials investigate the possible interaction of syntactic and prosodic information, on the one hand, and syntactic and semantic information, on the other. While the first two information types were shown to interact early during processing, the latter two information types do not. Implications for models of auditory language comprehension are discussed.





This review focuses on recent advances in our knowledge of estrogen action in the brain. The greatest amount of attention was devoted to those studies that impact our understanding of estrogen regulation of memory function and prevention of degenerative diseases associated with memory systems, such as Alzheimer's disease. A review of recent advances in our understanding of estrogen receptors, both nuclear and membrane, is also presented. Finally, these data are considered in regard to their relevancy to the use of estrogen replacement therapy for cognitive health throughout menopause and the development of an estrogen replacement therapy designed for the unique requirements of the brain.
This article describes the first application of true online motion correction to diffusion-weighted RARE imaging. Two orthogonal navigator echoes were acquired and zeroth and first-order phase corrections applied in less than 8 ms between a diffusion-weighted magnetization preparation and data acquisition using the RARE sequence. The zeroth-order phase correction was realized by pulsing the system's B(0)-coil: the first-order error corrected with appropriate magnetic field gradient pulses. Online correction ensured that no irreversible signal loss could occur in the imaging experiment. Diffusion-weighted images of the brain were obtained from healthy volunteers. EGG-triggered acquisition was applied at 400 ms after the R-wave. Data were acquired on a matrix of 256 x 256 with a RARE factor of 16 and a b-value of 804 smm(-2). The images obtained with online motion correction showed a remarkably high image quality, while those acquired without motion correction were severely degraded by artifacts.
Substance abuse and dependence is a public health problem with far-reaching societal implications. The acute toxicity of substances of abuse and medical consequences of chronic use are substantial. On a more optimistic note, a great deal of progress has been made in understanding and treating substance use disorders. Expanding knowledge concerning the neurobiology of substances of abuse and substance use disorders has led to a growth in pharmacotherapeutic treatment options. A growth in understanding of behavioral processes, motivational issues, and processes of behavioral change has been important in designing new and increasingly more effective psychosocial treatments. A growing body of evidence indicates that the treatment of substance use disorders can be effective, making early diagnosis and treatment or referral increasingly important.
The phenomenology of OCD and TS seem to match perfectly with the existing conceptualization of the functional relationship between frontal cortical and subcortical circuits. Failed editing of thoughts and impulses, perseverative patterns, and inhibitory deficits are the most convenient descriptors of the symptoms, and some operationalized measures can capture evidence for such deficits in TS and OCD patients. Beyond these expectations borne from conceptual models and some broad patterns of distributed metabolic disturbances in neuroimaging studies, a specific causal pathology within CSPT circuitry needs to be identified in these disorders. This is not a criticism of the existing studies of TS and OCD; to the contrary, the scarcity of pathologic material, the limits of resolution of existing technologies, and the heterogeneity of the phenotypes make the accomplishments of these studies more impressive. As clinicians strive to integrate clinical and scientific findings into coherent models for the pathophysiology of OCD and TS, it is useful to identify practical and effective strategies for therapeutic interventions.
GAD is common, often follows a chronic course, and usually is associated with extensive psychiatric and medical comorbidity. This disorder often presents in a primary care setting, commonly with somatic symptoms; it is important for primary care physicians to be aware of its existence, forms of presentation, and different treatments. GAD appears to be twice as common in women than men. There is some evidence that the neurobiologic basis of GAD may involve abnormalities in neurochemical, neuroendocrine, neurophysiologic, and neuroanatomic factors. Research on psychosocial treatment of GAD has favored the combination of cognitive therapy and relaxation techniques or anxiety management training. It also appears that relapse rates after termination of cognitive-behavioral therapy are low. Taking into consideration that GAD generally is chronic and associated frequently with depressive symptoms, the ideal pharmacotherapy may be a drug that can treat these comorbid disorders adequately. New antidepressants, especially those with action in the serotonin system and possibly noradrenergic, may be the appropriate option: They not only treat anxiety, but also treat or prevent the development of comorbid depression; they should be effective ideally during prolonged periods without risks related to addiction or withdrawal, such as may happen with benzodiazepines and some antidepressants. The role of newly emerging drugs, such as some anticonvulsants, in GAD needs to be defined more clearly. More research is warranted to address issues such as (1) whether pharmacotherapy is as effective, less effective, or more effective than cognitive-behavioral therapy; (2) whether antidepressants improve the rate of wellness or remission; and (3) whether prolonged antidepressant therapy for GAD protects against later emergent depression.
To provide the most effective care for this difficult patient population, it is helpful to remember that patients with schizophrenia have disease-intrinsic limitations that limit their ability to participate in their care. These limitations are symptoms of a disease and not volitional. For the physician to substitute for these deficits, a certain degree of flexibility as well as the willingness to use unorthodox interventions is necessary. Good medical care is as important for the patient with schizophrenia as for any other patient.
The advances made in the 1980s and 1990s have yielded many advances in the diagnosis and treatment of depression and dysthymia. Skill of the clinician is important in sorting out the diagnosis, taking care to consider the various medical conditions that can cause depression or disguise themselves as depression. Depressive disorders are highly treatable conditions. Clinicians must overcome the stigma associated with these disorders to alleviate the pain and suffering of those afflicted. The advances in treatment have been enormous and continue to grow. The keys to these treatments lie in continuing to acquire the knowledge to unlock all of the causes of depression. An appendix follows listing medications commonly used in the treatment of depression or for other conditions in patients under treatment for depression.
This article reviews the rapidly changing concepts related to the pathophysiology of major psychiatric disorders. The current era is an exciting one for psychiatric research and the rapidity with which advances are being made is a source of hope to patients with these disorders and for society.
To gain a better understanding of mammalian development at the molecular level, technology is needed that allows the transfer of exogenous genes into desired embryonic regions at defined stages of development. Our strategy has been to use electroporation (EP) of plasmid DNA following whole-embryo culture (WEC). In our gene transfer system, postimplantation rodent embryos are taken out of the uterus and a purified DNA solution of mammalian expression plasmid constructs is injected into the neural tube. A square-pulse current is delivered using an electroporator with an optimizer. Electroporated embryos are allowed to develop in the WEC system for 24--48 h. Within the targeted area, the proportion of transfected cells varied from 10% to approximately 100% depending on the test conditions (e.g., DNA concentration, voltage, duration of EP, and pulse number). The EP--WEC system has several advantages including rapid gene expression, minimal laboratory work, precisely targeted regions, and no risk for human beings. Application of the method is useful in improving our understanding of early neural development (E7--E12 in mice), e.g., alteration of gene function via ectopic expression, interference with dominant negative proteins, and fate mapping with marker genes. In addition, EP can complement genetic approaches such as the generation of knockout and transgenic mice.
Despite considerable research into the pathogenesis of idiopathic headaches, such as migraine, the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying them remain poorly understood. Although it is well established that the trigeminal nerve becomes activated during migraine, the consequences of this activation remain controversial. One theory, based on preclinical observations, is that activation of trigeminal sensory fibers leads to a painful neurogenic inflammation within the meningeal (dural) vasculature mediated by neuropeptide release from trigeminal sensory fibres and characterized by plasma protein extravasation, vasodilation, and mast cell degranulation. Effective antimigraine agents such as ergots, triptans, opioids, and valproate inhibit preclinical neurogenic dural extravasation, suggesting that this activity may be a predictor of potential clinical efficacy of novel agents. However, several clinical trials with other agents that inhibit this process preclinically have failed to show efficacy in the acute treatment of migraine in man. Alternatively, it has been proposed that painful neurogenic vasodilation of meningeal blood vessels could be a key component of the inflammatory process during migraine headache. This view is supported by the observation that jugular plasma levels of the potent vasodilator, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) are elevated during the headache and normalized by successful sumatriptan treatment. Preclinically, activation of trigeminal sensory fibers evokes a CGRP-mediated neurogenic dural vasodilation, which is blocked by dihydroergotamine, triptans, and opioids but unaffected by NK1 receptor antagonists that failed in clinical trials. These observations suggest that CGRP release with associated neurogenic dural vasodilation may be important in the generation of migraine pain, a theory that would ultimately be tested by the clinical testing of a CGRP receptor antagonist.
Secretory granules store neuropeptides and hormones and exhibit regulated exocytosis upon appropriate cellular stimulation. They are generated in the trans-Golgi network as immature secretory granules, short-lived vesicular intermediates, which undergo a complex and poorly understood maturation process. Due to their short half-life and low abundance, real-time studies of immature secretory granules have not been previously possible. We describe here a pulse/chase-like system based on the expression of a human chromogranin B-GFP fusion protein in neuroendocrine PC12 cells, which permits direct visualization of the budding of immature secretory granules and their dynamics during maturation. Live cell imaging revealed that newly formed immature secretory granules are transported in a direct and microtubule-dependent manner within a few seconds to the cell periphery. Our data suggest that the cooperative action of microtubules and actin filaments restricts immature secretory granules to the F-actin-rich cell cortex, where they move randomly and mature completely within a few hours. During this maturation period, secretory granules segregate into pools of different motility. In a late phase of maturation, 60% of secretory granules were found to be immobile and about half of these underwent F-actin-dependent tethering.
The specific identity of neuronal precursors within the embryonic brain is, at present, not clear. Here we show that cultures with glial characteristics derived from the embryonic mouse or human lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) can be expanded over many passages and maintain their glial identity. Interestingly, removal of serum and EGF from the culture medium results in the generation of large numbers of neurons. The neurons derived from these cultures display many characteristic features of striatal neurons, which normally derive from the LGE, even after extensive expansion in vitro. Furthermore, a portion of the neurons generated in these cultures were shown to arise from glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-expressing cells. These results demonstrate that at least a subpopulation of neurogenic LGE precursors exhibit glial characteristics.
Inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptors are subject to modulation at a variety of allosteric sites, with pharmacology dependent on receptor subunit combination. The influence of different alpha subunits in combination with beta3gamma2s was examined in stably expressed human recombinant GABA(A) receptors by measuring (36)Cl influx through the ion channel pore. Muscimol and GABA exhibited similar maximal efficacy at each receptor subtype, although muscimol was more potent, with responses blocked by picrotoxin and bicuculline. Receptors containing the alpha3 subunit exhibited slightly lower potency. The comparative pharmacology of a range of benzodiazepine site ligands was examined, revealing a range of intrinsic efficacies at different receptor subtypes. Of the diazepam-sensitive GABA(A) receptors (alpha1, alpha2, alpha3, alpha5), alpha5 showed the most divergence, being discriminated by zolpidem in terms of very low affinity, and CL218,872 and CGS9895 with different efficacies. Benzodiazepine potentiation at alpha3beta3gamma2s with nonselective agonist chlordiazepoxide was greater than at alpha1, alpha2, or alpha5 (P &lt; 0.001). The presence of an alpha4 subunit conferred a unique pharmacological profile. The partial agonist bretazenil was the most efficacious benzodiazepine, despite lower alpha4 affinity, and FG8205 displayed similar efficacy. Most striking were the lack of affinity/efficacy for classical benzodiazepines and the relatively high efficacy of Ro15-1788 (53 +/- 12%), CGS8216 (56 +/- 6%), CGS9895 (65 +/- 6%), and the weak partial inverse agonist Ro15-4513 (87 +/- 5%). Each receptor subtype was modulated by pentobarbital, loreclezole, and 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one, but the type of alpha subunit influenced the level of potentiation. The maximal pentobarbital response was significantly greater at alpha4beta3gamma2s (226 +/- 10% increase in the EC(20) response to GABA) than any other modulator. The rank order of potentiation for pregnanolone was alpha5 &gt; alpha2 &gt; alpha3 = alpha4 &gt; alpha1, for loreclezole alpha1 = alpha2 = alpha3 &gt; alpha5 &gt; alpha4, and for pentobarbital alpha4 = alpha5 = alpha2 &gt; alpha1 = alpha3.
Glutamate-gated chloride (GluCl) channels are the site of action of the anthelmintic ivermectin. Previously, the Xenopus laevis oocyte expression system has been used to characterize GluCl channels cloned from Caenorhabditis elegans. However, information on the native, pharmacologically relevant receptors is lacking. Here, we have used a quantitative pharmacological approach and intracellular recording techniques of C. elegans pharynx to characterize them. The glutamate response was a rapidly desensitizing, reversible, chloride-dependent depolarization (EC(50) = 166 microM), only weakly antagonized by picrotoxin. The order of potency of agonists was ibotenate &gt; L-glutamate &gt; kainate = quisqualate. Ivermectin potently and irreversibly depolarized the muscle (EC(50) = 2.7 nM). No further depolarization was seen with coapplication of maximal glutamate during the maximal ivermectin response, indicating that ivermectin depolarizes the muscle by the same ionic mechanism as glutamate (i.e., chloride). The potency of ivermectin on the pharynx was greater than at any of the GluCl subunits expressed in X. laevis oocytes. This effect of ivermectin was abolished in the mutant avr-15, which lacks a functional GluCl-alpha2 subunit. However, a chloride-dependent, nondesensitizing response to glutamate persisted. Therefore, the GluCl-alpha2 subunit confers ivermectin sensitivity and a high-affinity desensitizing glutamate response on the native pharyngeal GluCl receptor.
Protein kinase-C (PKC) activation differentially affects currents from N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type glutamate receptors depending upon their subunit composition. Experiments using chimeras initially indicated that the cytoplasmic C-terminal tails of NR2B (responsive to PKC) and NR2C (unresponsive to PKC) subunits contain the amino acid residues responsible for the observed disparity of PKC effects. However, truncation and point mutation experiments have suggested that PKC action on NMDA receptors may be entirely indirect, working via the phosphorylation of associated proteins. Here we suggest that PKC does, in fact, affect NR2B/NR1-011 NMDA currents by direct phosphorylation of the NR2B tail at residues S1303 and S1323. Replacement of either of these residues with Ala severely reduces PKC potentiation. To verify that S1303 and S1323 are sites of direct phosphorylation by PKC, synthetic peptides from the regions surrounding these sites were used as substrates for in vitro assays with purified rat brain PKC. These results indicate that PKC can directly phosphorylate S1303 and S1323 in the NR2B C terminus, leading to enhanced currents through NMDA receptor channels. The direct action of PKC on certain NMDA receptor subtypes may be important in any physiological or pathological process where PKC and NR2B/NR1 receptors interact.
Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a life threatening disorder affecting mostly adolescent women. It is a dramatic psychiatric syndrome accompanied by severe weight loss, hyperactivity and neuroendocrine changes (reviewed in Refs 1 and 2). Several studies have shown a strong genetic component in AN (reviewed in Ref 3). Recent advances in unraveling the mechanisms of weight control point to a crucial role of the melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4-r) system in regulating body weight. The orexigenic neuropeptide agouti-related protein (AGRP), a MC4-r antagonist, plays a crucial role in maintaining body weight, by inducing food intake. The sequence of the coding region of the human AGRP gene (AGRP) was determined and the AGRP of 100 patients with AN was screened for variations. Three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified and screened in a further 45 patients and 244 controls. Two alleles were in complete linkage disequilibrium and were significantly enriched in anorectic patients (11%; P = 0.015) compared to controls (4.5%). These data indicate that variations of AGRP are associated with susceptibility for AN. This is possibly caused by defective suppression of the MC4-r by the variant AGRP, leading to a decreased feeding signal, increasing the risk of developing AN. These results implicate that antagonism of the MC4-r might be considered as pharmacotherapy for patients with AN.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a disorder characterised by a progressive deterioration in memory and other cognitive functions. Glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3 beta) phosphorylates the microtubule associated protein tau at sites that are aberrantly phosphorylated in AD. GSK3 beta binds to presenilin 1 and plays a role in wnt and insulin signalling cascades, both of which have been proposed to be linked to AD. Moreover GSK3 beta activity may be altered in AD brain. These observations suggest a central role for GSK3 beta in AD and led us to investigate GSK3 beta as a candidate gene for AD. We sought to identify sequence variations in the gene and its promoter, as these could have an effect on activity and expression leading to abnormal function. Sequencing over 3000 bp of the GSK3 beta putative promoter revealed there to be five sequence variations, two of which were common (&gt;10%). However on further examination none of these, either alone or in synergy, had any association with late onset AD. Stratification of the data by APOE epsilon 4 status also produced no significant association. Sequencing of the GSK3 beta coding region revealed no variations. This would suggest that the aberrant phosphorylation of tau by GSK3 beta in AD is not due to sequence variations in the gene or its promoter.
Viral delivery of neurotrophins or other therapeutic genes is an attractive option for treating retinal degeneration. Regulated expression of these genes in the retina is needed to aid in dose delivery and to promote safety. To evaluate whether tetracycline (tet)-inducible transgenes encapsidated in recombinant adeno-associated viruses (rAAV) can provide controlled gene expression in vitro and in the rat retina, two viruses were constructed: a silencer/activator vector and an inducible doxycycline (dox)-responsive GFP vector. Combinations of these two viruses were subretinally injected into wild-type rats and dox was orally administered through the drinking water. Retinal GFP expression was monitored in vivo with a noninvasive fluorescence imaging method. Eyes were also examined by histology, Western analysis, and electroretinography. Subretinal injection of rAAV efficiently delivers inducible genes to both photoreceptors and retinal pigment epithelial cells. GFP expression was initially observed 1 week postinduction, and GFP protein was undetectable after removal of dox. In uninduced animals, GFP expression was negligible. The dox dosage was varied in vivo and showed a correlation to the level of GFP expression. Thus, transduction of retinal cells with tet-inducible vectors allows for tight regulation of gene expression.
This report provides the first videotape example of a patient with permanent cerebellar ataxia from high dose cytosine arabinoside. This case was unusual in that the patient was young, the effects are seemingly permanent and severe, and corticospinal tract damage also occurred. Early recognition to stop drug administration remains the only method to reduce risk.

Experimental evidence suggests that glutamatergic receptor blockade may improve the motor response complications associated with long-term levodopa treatment in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Our objective was to evaluate the acute effect of amantadine, a noncompetitive antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, on levodopa-induced dyskinesias, and to gain further insights into the antidyskinetic mechanism of this drug. Nine PD patients with motor fluctuations and severely disabling peak of dose dyskinesias received their first morning levodopa dose, followed by a 2-hour intravenous amantadine (200 mg) or placebo infusion, on two different days. Parkinsonian symptoms and dyskinesias were assessed every 15 minutes during the infusion and for 3 hours thereafter, while patients were taking their usual oral antiparkinsonian therapy, by means of Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS, motor examination), tapping test, and a modified Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS). Intravenous amantadine acutely improved levodopa-induced dyskinesias by 50%without any loss of the anti-parkinsonian benefit from levodopa. This study confirms the antidyskinetic effect of amantadine and strengthens the rationale for using antiglutamatergic drugs in the treatment of parkinsonian motor fluctuations.
Three patients with spasmodic torticollis (ST) obtained substantial benefit from bilateral globus pallidus internus (GPi) stimulation. Progressive improvement in ST occurred over several months but residual cervical dystonia remained. These results corroborate those obtained by Krauss et al. on three patients with ST.
The present experiment was designed to localize the neural substrates that process music-syntactic incongruities, using magnetoencephalography (MEG). Electrically, such processing has been proposed to be indicated by early right-anterior negativity (ERAN), which is elicited by harmonically inappropriate chords occurring within a major-minor tonal context. In the present experiment, such chords elicited an early effect, taken as the magnetic equivalent of the ERAN (termed mERAN). The source of mERAN activity was localized in Broca's area and its right-hemisphere homologue, areas involved in syntactic analysis during auditory language comprehension. We find that these areas are also responsible for an analysis of incoming harmonic sequences, indicating that these regions process syntactic information that is less language-specific than previously believed.
Protein movements underlying ligand-gated ion channel activation are poorly understood. Here we used disulfide bond trapping to examine the proximity and mobility of cysteines substituted for aligned GABAA receptor alpha1 and beta1 M2 segment channel-lining residues in resting and activated receptors. With or without GABA, disulfide bonds formed at alpha1N275C/beta1E270C (20') and alpha1S272C/beta1H267C (17'), near the extracellular end, suggesting that this end is more mobile and/or flexible than the rest of the segment. Near the middle of M2, at alpha1T261C/beta1T256C (6'), a disulfide bond formed only in the presence of GABA and locked the channels open. Channel activation must involve an asymmetric rotation of two adjacent subunits toward each other. This would move aligned engineered cysteines on different subunits into proximity and allow disulfide bond formation without blocking conduction. Asymmetric rotation of M2 segments is probably a common gating mechanism in other ligand-gated ion channels.
In recent years, it has become clear that motor learning, as revealed by associative eyelid conditioning and adaptation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex, contributes to the well-established cerebellar functions of sensorimotor integration and control. Long-term depression of the parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapse (which is often called 'cerebellar LTD') is a cellular phenomenon that has been suggested to underlie these forms of learning. However, it is clear that parallel fiber LTD, by itself, cannot account for all the properties of cerebellar motor learning. Here we review recent electrophysiological experiments that have described a rich variety of use-dependent plasticity in cerebellum, including long-term potentiation (LTP) and LTD of excitatory and inhibitory synapses, and persistent modulation of intrinsic neuronal excitability. Finally, using associative eyelid conditioning as an example, we propose some ideas about how these cellular phenomena might function and interact to endow the cerebellar circuit with particular computational and mnemonic properties.

For over 60 years, ideas about emotion in neuroscience and psychology have been dominated by a debate on whether emotion can be encompassed within a single, unifying model. In neuroscience, this approach is epitomized by the limbic system theory and, in psychology, by dimensional models of emotion. Comparative research has gradually eroded the limbic model, and some scientists have proposed that certain individual emotions are represented separately in the brain. Evidence from humans consistent with this approach has recently been obtained by studies indicating that signals of fear and disgust are processed by distinct neural substrates. We review this research and its implications for theories of emotion.
Depression is a major cause of disability worldwide, but we know little about the underlying fundamental biology. Research is hindered by the difficulties of modelling a disorder of higher cognitive functions in animals. Depression can be understood as the interaction of genetic susceptibility and environmental factors; however, current classifications are purely descriptive. The complexity of this field is best approached by rigorous explorations of known candidate systems in conjunction with the use of genomic tools to discover new targets for antidepressants and to predict therapeutic outcomes.
Activity-mediated changes in the strength of synaptic communication are important for the establishment of proper neuronal connections during development and for the experience-dependent modification of neural circuitry that is believed to underlie all forms of behavioural plasticity. Owing to the wide-ranging significance of synaptic plasticity, considerable efforts have been made to identify the mechanisms by which synaptic changes are triggered and expressed. New evidence indicates that one important expression mechanism of several long-lasting forms of synaptic plasticity might involve the physical transport of AMPA-type glutamate receptors in and out of the synaptic membrane. Here, we focus on the rapidly accumulating evidence that AMPA receptors undergo regulated endocytosis, which is important for long-term depression.

In the course of normal aging from about age 20 to 100, the population density of neocortical synapses declines toward, but not reaching, the level found in Alzheimer disease. A deficiency of synapses at birth or due to inadequate childhood education would theoretically cause the synaptic slope to reach the Alzheimer level early. The normal slope would cross into that dementia range at about age 130, resulting in true primary senile dementia without regard to the presence of plaques and tangles.
The interaction between platelet activating factor (PAF) and NMDA receptor function in hippocampal and dorsal striatal memory processes was examined. In both a hidden and a visible platform water maze task, peripheral post-training injection of MK-801 (0.05 mg/kg) impaired memory. Post-training intrahippocampal infusions of PAF (1.0 microg/0.5 microl) enhanced memory in the hidden platform task, while intradorsal striatal infusion of PAF (1.0 microg/0.5 microl) enhanced memory in the visible platform task. The memory impairing effects of post-training injection of MK-801 was blocked by concurrent intrahippocampal infusion of PAF. In contrast, post-training injection of MK-801 blocked the memory enhancing effects of concurrent intradorsal striatal infusion of PAF. The results suggest that (1) the memory enhancing effects of intracerebral PAF infusion involve an interaction with NMDA receptor function, and (2) the nature of this interaction may represent a differential mechanism mediating the distinct roles of the hippocampus and dorsal striatum in cognitive memory and stimulus-response habit formation, respectively.
The effects of continuous infusion of NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 on the modulation of NMDA receptor subunits NR1, NR2A, NR2B, and NR2C were investigated by using in situ hybridization study. Differential assembly of NMDA receptor subunits determines their functional characteristics. Continuous intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion with MK-801 (1 pmol/10 microl/h) for 7 days resulted in significant modulations in the NR1, NR2A, and NR2B mRNA levels without producing stereotypic motor syndromes. The levels of NR1 mRNA were significantly increased (9-20%) in the cerebral cortex, striatum, septum, and CA1 of hippocampus in MK-801-infused rats. The levels of NR2A mRNA were significantly decreased (11-16%) in the CA3 and dentate gyrus of hippocampus in MK-801-infused rats. In contrast to NR2A, NR2B subunit mRNA levels were increased (10-14%) in the cerebral cortex, caudate putamen, and thalamus. However, no changes of NR2C subunits in cerebellar granule layer were observed. Using quantitative ligand autoradiography, the binding of NMDA receptor ligand [3H]MK-801 was increased (12-25%) significantly in almost all brain regions except in the thalamus and cerebellum after 7 days infusion with MK-801. These results suggest that region-specific changes of NMDA receptor subunit mRNA and [3H]MK-801 binding are involved in the MK-801-infused adult rats.
Written Chinese as logographic script differs notably from alphabets such as English in visual form, orthography, phonology, and semantics. Thus, research on the Chinese language is important to advance our understanding of the universality and particularity of the organization of language systems in the brain. In this study, we examine the neural systems associated with logographic reading using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Two experimental tasks were devised, one based on semantic decision and the other on homophone decision. Compared to the fixation baseline, peak activations resulting from semantic as well as homophony decisions were localized in the left middle frontal gyrus (BA 9). Left inferior frontal cortex also mediated Chinese processing. In addition, more right hemisphere cortical regions (i.e., BAs 47/45, 7, 40/39, and the right visual system) were involved in reading Chinese relative to reading English. This is attributed to the square shape of the logograph which requires an elaborated analysis of the spatial information and locations of various strokes comprising the logographic character. We suggest that the left middle frontal area (BA 9) coordinates and integrates the intensive visuospatial analysis demanded by logographs' square configuration and the semantic (or phonological) analysis required by the present experimental tasks. Our study has implicated brain regions common to both logographic and alphabetic languages as well as brain regions specialized in processing logographs.
We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate cortical activation during the performance of three oculomotor tasks that impose increasing levels of cognitive demand. (1) In a visually guided saccade (VGS) task, subjects made saccades to flashed targets. (2) In a compatible task, subjects made leftward and rightward saccades in response to foveal presentation of the uppercase words &quot;LEFT&quot; or &quot;RIGHT.&quot; (3) In a mixed task, subjects made rightward saccades in response to the lowercase word &quot;left&quot; and leftward saccades in response to the lowercase word &quot;right&quot; on incompatible trials (60%). The remaining 40% of trials required compatible responses to uppercase words. The VGS and compatible tasks, when compared to fixation, activated the three cortical eye fields: the supplementary eye field (SEF), the frontal eye field (FEF), and the parietal eye field (PEF). The mixed task, when compared to the compatible task, activated three additional cortical regions proximate to the three eye fields: (1) rostral to the SEF in medial frontal cortex; (2) rostral to the FEF in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC); (3) rostral and lateral to the PEF in posterior parietal cortex. These areas may contribute to the suppression of prepotent responses and in holding novel visuomotor associations in working memory.
We studied exercise-induced changes in the adenosine triphosphate (ATP), phosphocreatine (PCr), and lactate levels in the skeletal muscle of mitochondrial patients and patients with McArdle's disease. Needle muscle biopsy specimens for biochemical measurement were obtained before and immediately after maximal short-term bicycle exercise test from 12 patients suffering from autosomal dominant and recessive forms of progressive external ophthalmoplegia and multiple deletions of mitochondrial DNA (adPEO, arPEO, respectively), five patients with mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) 3243 A--&gt;G point mutation, and four patients with McArdle's disease. Muscle ATP and PCr levels at rest or after exercise did not differ significantly from those of the controls in any patient group. In patients with mitochondrial disease, muscle lactate tended to be lower at rest and increase more during exercise than in controls, the most remarkable rise being measured in patients with adPEO with generalized muscle symptoms and in patients with MELAS point mutation. In McArdle patients, the muscle lactate level decreased during exercise. No correlation was found between the muscle ATP and PCr levels and the respiratory chain enzyme activity.
Primary merosin-deficient congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD) is a severe form of congenital muscular disorder which is caused by mutations in the laminin alpha2 chain gene (LAMA2). The disease is characterized by marked dystrophic changes in skeletal muscles during early infancy, while little is known about the pathological process of the muscle fiber degeneration. Here, we report the immunohistochemical analysis of skeletal muscle in ten patients with primary merosin-deficient CMD using a panel of molecular markers for skeletal muscle proteins, cellular necrosis, and apoptosis. In the youngest patient (a 52 day old baby), prominent massive muscle cell degeneration occurred in association with the deposition of the C5-9 complement membrane attack complex (MAC). Most of the MAC-positive muscle fibers showed a severely deranged immunoreaction to dystrophin, dystroglycans, and other sarcolemmal proteins. In addition, we found scattered positive signals for apoptosis. Similar but milder changes were also observed in six other patients younger than 1 year. In the patients older than 3 years, muscle fibers positive for MAC and apoptotic signals were barely detectable. These findings imply that massive muscle fiber degeneration occurs in the very early stage of merosin-deficient CMD and may contribute to the severe dystrophic changes in muscle from early infancy.
Neural responses accompanying anticipation and experience of monetary gains and losses were monitored by functional magnetic resonance imaging. Trials comprised an initial &quot;prospect&quot; (expectancy) phase, when a set of three monetary amounts was displayed, and a subsequent &quot;outcome&quot; phase, when one of these amounts was awarded. Hemodynamic responses in the sublenticular extended amygdala (SLEA) and orbital gyrus tracked the expected values of the prospects, and responses to the highest value set of outcomes increased monotonically with monetary value in the nucleus accumbens, SLEA, and hypothalamus. Responses to prospects and outcomes were generally, but not always, seen in the same regions. The overlap of the observed activations with those seen previously in response to tactile stimuli, gustatory stimuli, and euphoria-inducing drugs is consistent with a contribution of common circuitry to the processing of diverse rewards.
Previous in vitro studies of cysteine-string protein (CSP) imply a potential role for the clathrin-uncoating ATPase Hsc70 in exocytosis. We show that hypomorphic mutations in Drosophila Hsc70-4 (Hsc4) impair nerve-evoked neurotransmitter release, but not synaptic vesicle recycling in vivo. The loss of release can be restored by increasing external or internal Ca(2+) and is caused by a reduced Ca(2+) sensitivity of exocytosis downstream of Ca(2+) entry. Hsc4 and CSP are likely to act in common pathways, as indicated by their in vitro protein interaction, the similar loss of evoked release in individual and double mutants, and genetic interactions causing a loss of release in trans-heterozygous hsc4-csp double mutants. We suggest that Hsc4 and CSP cooperatively augment the probability of release by increasing the Ca(2+) sensitivity of vesicle fusion.
Synaptotagmins I and II are Ca(2+) binding proteins of synaptic vesicles essential for fast Ca(2+)-triggered neurotransmitter release. However, central synapses and neuroendocrine cells lacking these synaptotagmins still exhibit Ca(2+)-evoked exocytosis. We now propose that synaptotagmin VII functions as a plasma membrane Ca(2+) sensor in synaptic exocytosis complementary to vesicular synaptotagmins. We show that alternatively spliced forms of synaptotagmin VII are expressed in a developmentally regulated pattern in brain and are concentrated in presynaptic active zones of central synapses. In neuroendocrine PC12 cells, the C(2)A and C(2)B domains of synaptotagmin VII are potent inhibitors of Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis, but only when they bind Ca(2+). Our data suggest that in synaptic vesicle exocytosis, distinct synaptotagmins function as independent Ca(2+) sensors on the two fusion partners, the plasma membrane (synaptotagmin VII) versus synaptic vesicles (synaptotagmins I and II).


To determine the physiological role of tachykinin NK1 receptors in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLN) we have studied the electrophysiological effects of substance P (SP) in the absence and presence of selective tachykinin receptor antagonists in guinea pig brain slices. Recordings were made from two populations of neurones; spiny pyramidal and stellate neurones, both thought to be projection neurones. Activation of NK1 receptors with SP increased the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in the majority of cells. This effect was blocked by bicuculline or tetrodotoxin, but not ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists. The enhanced synaptic activity induced by SP was antagonised by the NK1 receptor antagonist L-760,735 but not by the less active enantiomer L-781,773 or the NK3 receptor antagonist L-769,927. Thus in the basolateral nucleus of the guinea pig amygdala, NK1 receptor activation preferentially stimulates inhibitory synaptic activity. Consistent with this observation, immunohistochemistry revealed NK1 receptor immunoreactivity to be largely restricted to a subset of GABA interneurones. These studies support a physiological role for SP in the regulation of pathways involved in the control of emotional behaviour.
Numerous abnormalities have been found in the serotonergic system in suicide attempters and completers. There is considerable evidence that the serotonergic system is partly under genetic control and that as yet unknown genetic factors mediate the risk for suicidal behavior independently of the genetic factors responsible for the heritability of major psychiatric conditions associated with suicide. An argument is made that there is a relationship of genetic variants to intermediate phenotypes, such as impulsivity, psychomotor change, pathological aggression and biological abnormalities including specific gene products. A variety of biological indices have been generated by new approaches using postmortem tissue and in vivo imaging that will provide a rich substrate for further genetic studies.
There has been some suggestion that 'risk assessment' defensive behaviors in rodents might resemble some of the behavioral/somatic symptoms of generalized anxiety in humans. Although the inclusion of some risk assessment behaviors enhanced the sensitivity of the elevated plus-maze to detect subtle changes in anxiety-like behavior, there is little evidence to support the inclusion of 15 or 20 indicator variables in an analysis. Several methodological, conceptual, complexity and interpretation problems associated with the factorial validity of recently published ethologically-derived large-scale principal components analyses of elevated plus-maze behavior are examined in this review. The utility of confirmatory factor analytic work currently being conducted in our laboratory to test structural hypotheses of anxiety-relevant elevated plus-maze behavior is then discussed with a view to address some of these issues. Finally, we propose that the growing number of measured behavioral indices in the elevated plus-maze test battery be reduced, and suggest that some of the underlying constructs thought to drive behavior in the apparatus are in need of re-evaluation.
Using the patch-clamp technique in the whole-cell configuration combined with intracellular dialysis of the fluorescent dye Lucifer yellow (LY), the membrane properties of cells in slices of the lumbar portion of the frog spinal cord (n=64) and the filum terminale (FT, n=48) have been characterized and correlated with their morphology. Four types of cells were found in lumbar spinal cord and FT with membrane and morphological properties similar to those of cells that were previously identified in the rat spinal cord (Chvtal, A., Pastor, A., Mauch, M., Sykov, E., Kettenmann, H., 1995. Distinct populations of identified glial cells in the developing rat spinal cord: Ion channel properties and cell morphology. Eur. J. Neurosci. 7, 129-142). Neurons, in response to a series of symmetrical voltage steps, displayed large repetitive voltage-dependent Na(+) inward currents and K(+) delayed rectifying outward currents. Three distinct types of non-neuronal cells were found. First, cells that exhibited passive symmetrical non-decaying currents were identified as astrocytes. These cells immunostained for GFAP and typically had at least one thick process and a number of fine processes. Second, cells with the characteristic properties of rat spinal cord oligodendrocytes, with passive symmetrical decaying currents and large tail currents after the end of the voltage step. These cells exhibited either long parallel or short hairy processes. Third, cells that expressed small brief inward currents in response to depolarizing steps, delayed rectifier outward currents and small sustained inward currents identical to rat glial precursor cells. Morphologically, they were characterized by round cell bodies with a number of finely branched processes. LY dye-coupling in the frog spinal cord gray matter and FT was observed in neurons and in all glial populations. All four cell types were found in both the spinal cord gray matter and FT. The glia/neuron ratio in the spinal cord was 0.78, while in FT it was 2.0. Moreover, the overall cell density was less in the FT than in the spinal cord. The present study shows that the membrane and morphological properties of glial cells in the frog and rat spinal cords are similar. Such striking phylogenetic similarity suggests a significant contribution from distinct glial cell populations to various spinal cord functions, particularly ionic and volume homeostasis in both mammals and amphibians.
Using Japanese monkeys, we examined the somatotopic organization of the hindlimb region of the primary motor cortex (MI) with intracortical microstimulation. In the hindlimb region of the MI, areas representing distal movements (digits and ankle joints) were basically surrounded by those representing proximal movements (knee and hip joints). Thus, the hindlimb region of the MI has a nested or horseshoe-like somatotopic representation. We then examined the topographic organization of corticocortical projections to the hindlimb region of the MI by the retrograde double-labeling technique: one monkey received paired injections of Fast blue (FB) and Diamidino yellow (DY) into hindlimb or forelimb representation of the MI, respectively, while two monkeys received those of FB and DY into proximal or distal representation of the hindlimb region of the MI, respectively. The neurons projecting to the hindlimb region of the MI were located in cortical areas largely separate from those projecting to the forelimb region of the MI. On the other hand, we found a substantial overlap of corticocortical neurons projecting to the proximal and distal parts of the hindlimb region of the MI in the dorsal division of the premotor cortex and the cingulate motor areas.





It has been concluded recently that if a projection from the marginal zone to the ventral posterior lateral (VPL) nucleus exists, it is sparse. Given the importance of the marginal zone in nociception, this conclusion has raised doubts about the significance of the role of the ventrobasal complex in nociception. We have reexamined this projection using injections of the retrograde tracer, cholera toxin subunit B, into one side of the lateral thalamus in macaque monkeys. The injections were confined to the ventrobasal complex (with minimal spread to adjacent nuclei that do not receive spinal projections) in two animals. Many retrogradely labeled neurons were found in lamina I (as well as in lamina V) of the contralateral spinal and medullary dorsal horn. The results are consistent with the view that neurons in the marginal zone contribute prominently to the spinothalamic and trigeminothalamic projections to the VPL and ventral posterior medial (VPM) nuclei. This pathway is likely to be important for the sensory-discriminative processing of nociceptive information with respect to the location and intensity of painful stimuli.
The hypothalamic peptide orexin-A and the orexin-1 receptor are localized in areas of the brain and spinal cord associated with nociceptive processing. In the present study, localization was confirmed in the spinal cord and demonstrated in the dorsal root ganglion for both orexin-A and the orexin-1 receptor. The link with nociception was extended when orexin-A was shown to be analgesic when given i.v. but not s.c. in mouse and rat models of nociception and hyperalgesia. The efficacy of orexin-A was similar to that of morphine in the 50 degrees C hotplate test and the carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia test. However, involvement of the opiate system in these effects was ruled out as they were blocked by the orexin-1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 but not naloxone. Orexin-1 receptor antagonists had no effect in acute nociceptive tests but under particular inflammatory conditions were pro-hyperalgesic, suggesting a tonic inhibitory orexin drive in these circumstances. These data demonstrate that the orexinergic system has a potential role in the modulation of nociceptive transmission.
Nephropathic cystinosis is a genetic disorder in which the amino acid cystine accumulates in lysosomes, resulting in multiorgan dysfunction. Progressive neuromuscular dysfunction, with bulbar and upper extremity weakness, has been described in adults with this disorder. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether there was evidence of early bulbar involvement, suggested by feeding difficulties or oral motor dysfunction in these patients, and whether the feeding and oral motor problems were associated with other evidence of neurologic dysfunction. Twenty-two children and adolescents with nephropathic cystinosis were studied. Parents completed questionnaires on feeding history and oral motor problems. Eighteen patients were given an oral motor examination, and 14 received a complete neurologic examination. The majority of children had a history of feeding difficulties. Seven children required a gastrostomy tube. Abnormalities on oral motor examination included hypotonia, abnormal gag reflex, and throaty or congested voice. Abnormalities on neurologic examination included hypotonia, muscle weakness, gross and fine motor dysfunction, and ataxia. The results indicate that feeding difficulties and oral motor dysfunction are common in children with cystinosis and appear to correlate with the general degree of neurologic dysfunction. Long-term follow-up is necessary to determine whether the early oral motor problems predict the later development of the progressive myopathy observed in adults with cystinosis.
This review will describe effects of corticosterone on the temporal dynamics of components within the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in response to sustained hypovolemia. The characterization of the synthetic and secretory profiles of HPA elements in these rat models reveals the complexities of steroid-mediated regulation of neuroendocrine and corticotrope function during a sustained stress event. Collectively, our data suggest activation of gene transcription and secretion are independently controlled, and that corticosterone affects adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) gene expression in the parvicellular neuroendocrine part of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus using two mechanisms: first, an inhibition which contributes to classic negative feedback, and second, a facilitation, which is seen at low plasma concentrations.
Activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is the main defining feature of the stress response. The primary mediator of this response is corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), a 41-residue peptide acknowledged as the principal hypophysiotropic factor driving stress-induced adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion. Although CRH is widely distributed within the central nervous system (CNS), the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus is the principal site of the parvocellular neurosecretory neurons responsible for delivering CRH to the hypophyseal portal system, an event that initiates the activity of the pituitary-adrenal axis. Stress-induced transcriptional activation of CRH takes place quite uniquely in this hypothalamic nucleus, despite the robust constitutive hybridization signal for CRH mRNA across the brain. The fact that CRH itself is capable of mimicking these effects and that de novo but transient expression of its type one receptor occurs in the PVN are data that make this hypothalamic region of great interest to study the mechanisms that lead to such specific transcriptional activity. This review will present evidence of such phenomenon by stressors of different categories as well as the possible neuromediators involved.
We report that when a flash and audible click occur in temporal proximity to each other, the perceived time of occurrence of both events is shifted in such a way as to draw them toward temporal convergence. In one experiment, observers judged when a flash occurred by reporting the clock position of a rotating marker. The flash was seen significantly earlier when it was preceded by an audible click and significantly later when it was followed by an audible click, relative to a condition in which the flash and click occurred simultaneously. In a second experiment, observers judged where the marker was when the click was heard. When a flash preceded or followed the click, similar but smaller capture effects were observed. These capture effects may reveal how temporal discrepancies in the input from different sensory modalities are reconciled and could provide a probe for examining the neural stages at which evoked responses correspond to the contents of conscious perception.
Changes in hippocampal electroencephalogram (EEG) have been suggested to be closely associated with spatial learning ability. Spatial learning can be improved in medial septal (MS)-lesioned mice by metrifonate, a cholinesterase inhibitor. We designed this study to investigate the effects of metrifonate on the hippocampal theta oscillation of intact and MS-lesioned mice. Intact and MS-lesioned C57BL mice were treated with acute injections of metrifonate (doses: 15, 50 and 100 mg/kg ip). These included a dose that considerably improved spatial memory of MS-lesioned mice in our earlier study. In addition, subtype selective muscarinic agents, BIBN-99, AF267B and AF150(S) were used. Recordings of hippocampal theta during movement and awake immobility revealed a dramatic reduction of theta in the lesioned animals. Metrifonate induced prominent changes in the EEG of intact mice, but not of MS-lesioned mice. The effect of metrifonate was not mimicked by two selective M(1)-agonists and was augmented by a combined injection of a selective M(2)-antagonist. These data suggest that improved spatial learning by the cholinesterase inhibitor metrifonate is unrelated to its effects on the hippocampal EEG. These two effects may be mediated through different muscarinic receptor subtypes.
Exposure to low levels of lead (Pb) results in a wide range of behavioral changes. These behavioral deficits of lead are modified by duration of exposure, level of exposure, and stage of exposure. The mesoaccumbens dopamine (DA) system appears to be critically involved in these alterations; however, the precise mechanisms are not completely understood. This study investigated the effects of systemic administrations of the dopamine D(2)-like receptor agonist, quinpirole, and antagonist, eticlopride, on response rates of postweaning lead-exposed rats in a fixed-interval 1-minute (FI-1) schedule. Postweaning exposure to 50 ppm lead (lead acetate) resulted in increased response rates. The dopamine D(2)-like agonist, quinpirole (0.05, 1.0, 3.0 mg/kg), reversed the effects of lead by reducing the response rates. However the antagonist, eticlopride (0.01 and 0.05), did not produce any marked modulation of the response rates of the lead group. Rather, systemic injections of eticlopride attenuated the response rates of control rats. The effects suggest that lead-induced alterations in FI responding are modulated by dopamine D(2)-like mechanisms. Thus, postweaning, subchronic exposure to lead resulted in enhanced sensitivity to quinpirole administration and reduced sensitivity to eticlopride. These observations are consistent with attenuated dopaminergic activity.
Compounds that inhibit the re-uptake and/or metabolism of biogenic amines (i.e. serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine) have been used to treat depression for more than 40 years. Selective re-uptake inhibitors, currently the most widely prescribed class of biogenic amine-based agents, are certainly safe and relatively easy to use, but do not exhibit either a faster onset of action or greater efficacy than their predecessors. An approach to overcome the limitations that may be inherent to these 'conventional' therapies is to circumvent the monoaminergic synapse. In this review, two potential antidepressant strategies are discussed that may converge with intracellular pathways impacted by chronic treatment with biogenic amine-based agents. Drugs emerging from these strategies may offer significant advantages over currently used antidepressants.
A number of inherited or drug-induced metabolic disorders involving dysfunctions in purines and pyrimidines are strongly associated with neurological dysfunction, e.g., Lesch Nyhan syndrome. Such disorders have been studied extensively using biochemical and molecular techniques in order to examine how such defects occur, sometimes using in vitro models based upon cultured neuroblastoma cell lines. However, these metabolic dysfunctions may manifest their effects in other ways, such as impaired synaptic transmission and gross abnormalities in neuronal growth and differentiation. This review outlines the latter novel facet of purine research. It is proposed that by employing cell imaging techniques and cultured neuroblastoma cell lines, believed to model the nervous system, significant insights into how inherited disorders of purine metabolism affect neuronal development can be obtained. This review provides an example of the application of these techniques to understand the etiology of Lesch Nyhan syndrome, and encourages further study of the role of purines and pyrimidines in the development of the nervous system.
We analyze convergence in discrete-time neural networks with specific performance such as decay rate and trajectory bounds in terms of componentwise absolute (exponential) stability. Simple necessary and sufficient stability and positive invariance conditions are presented, which allow us to design a convergent network with prescribed performance. Our approach is based on a decomposition of competitive-cooperative connectivity or inhibitory-excitatory interaction that abounds in neural networks, without assuming symmetry of the connection matrices. The key idea is that through the decomposition, we can always relate a competitive-cooperative network with a cooperative dynamical system. The latter possesses significant order-preserving properties that are basic to our analysis. The explicit division of connection weights into inhibitory and excitatory types offers a higher potential for relating formal neural network models to neurophysiology.
We evaluated the behavioral and neural toxicity of the artemisinin antimalarial compound, arteether (AE), using a novel radial-arm maze procedure. We have previously shown that AE can produce a distinctive pattern of neurotoxicity in the brainstem and that auditory nuclei are particularly vulnerable. Thus, we assessed performance which depended upon auditory processing. We trained rats to choose one of eight arms of a radial maze, depending upon which arm served as the source of a white noise stimulus. Correct responses produced food reinforcement while incorrect choices had no programmed consequences. When the task was acquired, AE (25 mg/kg/day; n=7) or oil vehicle (n=7) was administered (intramuscularly) for seven consecutive days. Behavioral sessions were conducted during the days of drug administrations and for 7 days following drug administrations. Subsequently, histopathology was conducted and a quantitative assessment of the nucleus trapezoideus was made. AE produced a progressive deficit in performance on the maze task. That is, accuracy decreased, choice latency increased, and the number of trials completed decreased. Moreover, the greatest deficits were observed during the period following drug administrations. AE-treated rats revealed marked damage in the nucleus trapezoideus. The damage included chromatolysis, necrosis, and gliosis. Vehicle-treated rats did not show performance deficits or neuropathology. These results extend earlier studies and show that AE can produce damage in the n. trapezoideus of rats, which is associated with performance deficits on a complex auditory task. Thus, the auditory radial-arm maze task is a useful tool for assessing AE-induced toxicity.
There is evidence that the experience of traumatic events may play a role in the pathogenesis of somatic diseases, including cardiovascular disorders. In this study, telemetry was used to investigate the long-term effects of a single stressful experience on cardiovascular and behavioral responses to novel challenges 2 weeks later. Rats were exposed to footshocks and tested for sensitization using the following challenges: novel cylinder (Day 14); shock prod acquisition test (Day 15); and shock prod retention test (Day 16). No difference in basal somatomotor activity (SA), heart rate (HR) and blood pressure between preshocked rats and control rats was found. However, preshocked rats displayed an enhanced blood pressure response compared to controls during the shock prod acquisition test and the shock prod retention test. No differential increase in HR response between both groups was found. During the novel cylinder test, the preshocked rats displayed less SA while no behavioral differences were found in the shock prod acquisition test and the shock prod retention test. We conclude that a single stressful experience induces long-term sensitization of blood pressure responses to novel challenges that are not necessarily linked to sensitized behavioral responses. The footshock model may be a useful model to study autonomic hyperresponsivity found in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
Intrathecal thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) potently inhibits penile erection at all doses (100, 500, 1000 or 5000 pmol) tested so far. Since the serotonin receptor antagonist methiothepin (MT) inhibits TRH responses in other systems, this study tested the hypothesis that MT-sensitive receptors mediate the effect of TRH on penile erection in rats. When compared to controls, the highest doses of IT TRH (0, 10 or 500 pmol) or MT (5 or 50 nmol) significantly altered penile reflex latency. When coadministered (50 nmol MT/500 pmol TRH), the effect of TRH was reversed, suggesting that the high dose of MT antagonized the inhibitory actions of TRH. The low dose of MT (5 nmol) did not block the 500 pmol TRH inhibition of reflex latency. These data further suggest that MT sensitive receptors are important in (1) mediating normal penile reflexes and (2) mediating the inhibitory response to TRH.
Integrins, a subgroup of adhesion receptors, are transmembrane glycoproteins that mediate interactions between cytoplasm and the extracellular environment. These interactions influence, among others, events such as cell migration, proliferation, and differentiation. Differential expression of integrins is developmentally regulated in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and is associated with crucial events in both physiological and pathological processes. Preliminary studies suggest that integrin expression influences neural crest cell migration, axonal outgrowth, and Schwann cell differentiation. Similarly, the abnormal expression of integrins or their ligands, is associated with degenerative, inflammatory, and malignant disorders of the PNS. Finally, integrins participate in the complex interactions that promote repair of the PNS. A better comprehension of the role of integrins in the PNS, their protein interactions and transducing signals is being achieved by selected biochemical and genetic experiments. Here we review a large bias of evidence suggesting the key functions for integrins in the PNS.
Numerous studies and reviews support an important contribution of endogenous opioid peptide systems in the mediation, modulation, and regulation of stress responses including endocrine (hypothalamopituitary-adrenal, HPA axis), autonomic nervous system (ANS axis), and behavioral responses. Although several discrepancies exist, the most consistent finding among such studies using different species and stressors is that opioids not only diminish stress-induced neuroendocrine and autonomic responses, but also stimulate these effector systems in the non-stressed state. A distinctive feature of the analgesic action of opioids is the blunting of the distressing, affective component of pain without dulling the sensation itself. Therefore, opioid peptides may diminish the impact of stress by attenuating an array of physiologic responses including emotional and affective states. The widespread distribution of enkephalin (ENK) throughout the limbic system (including the extended amygdala, cingulate cortex, entorhinal cortex, septum, hippocampus, and the hypothalamus) is consistent with a direct role in the modulation the stress responses. The predictability of stressful events reduces the impact of a wide range of stressors and ENK appears to play an important role in this process. Therefore, ENK and its receptors could represent a major modulatory system in the adaptation of an organism to stress, balancing the response that the stressor places on the central stress system with the potentially detrimental effects that a sustained stress may produce. Chronic neurogenic stressors will induce changes in specific components of the stress-induced ENKergic system, including ENK, delta- and mu-opioid receptors. This review presents evidences for adaptive cellular mechanisms underlying the response of the central stress system when assaulted by repeated psychogenic stress, and the involvement of ENK in these processes.
The history of pharmacotherapy of mental illness can be divided into three periods. Introduction of morphine, potassium bromide, chloral hydrate, hyoscine, paraldehyde, etc., during the second half of the 19th century (first period), led to the replacement of physical restraint by pharmacological means in behavior control. Introduction of nicotinic acid, penicillin, thiamine, etc., during the first half of the 20th century (second period), led to significant changes in the diagnostic distribution of psychiatric patients; psychoses due to cerebral pellagra, and dementia due to syphilitic general paralysis virtually disappeared from psychiatric hospitals, and the prevalence of dysmnesias markedly decreased. Treatment with therapeutically effective drugs of mania, schizophrenia, depression, bipolar disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, Alzheimer's disease, etc., during the second half of the 20th century (third period), brought to attention the heterogeneity of the populations within the diagnostic categories of schizophrenia and depression. Introduction of the first set of psychotropics and the spectrophotofluorimeter during the 1950s triggered the development of neuropsychopharmacology. Introduction of genetic technology for the separation of receptor subtypes in the 1980s opened the path for the &quot;tailoring&quot; of psychotropic drugs by the dawn of the 21st century, to receptor affinities.
Bipolar cells in the mammalian retina are postsynaptic to either rod or cone photoreceptors, thereby segregating their respective signals into parallel vertical streams. In contrast to the cone pathways, only one type of rod bipolar cell exists, apparently limiting the routes available for the propagation of rod signals. However, due to numerous interactions between the rod and cone circuitry, there is now strong evidence for the existence of up to three different pathways for the transmission of scotopic visual information. Here we survey work over the last decade or so that have defined the structure and function of the interneurons subserving the rod pathways in the mammalian retina. We have focused on: (1) the synaptic ultrastructure of the interneurons; (2) their light-evoked physiologies; (3) localization of specific transmitter receptor subtypes; (4) plasticity of gap junctions related to changes in adaptational state; and (5) the functional implications of the existence of multiple rod pathways. Special emphasis has been placed on defining the circuits underlying the different response components of the AII amacrine cell, a central element in the transmission of scotopic signals.
Behavioral evidence suggests that the processing of parafoveal stimuli decreases as the perceptual demands of a task at fixation increase. However, it remains unclear whether or not this effect of perceptual load occurs during initial sensory-level processing at early stages of visuocortical analysis. Using event-related potential measures, we found that increasing the perceptual load of foveal targets led to a significant decrease in the sensory-evoked response to parafoveal stimuli. Moreover, these effects were observed using two different operational definitions of perceptual load. This result indicates that perceptual load affects the flow of information during the initial stages of visuocortical processing.




In the cross-modal picture-word interference task, distractors phonologically related to a to-be-named picture facilitate the naming response as compared to unrelated distractors. Our experiment shows that this phonological priming effect can be obtained with as early an SOA as -300 ms. The experiment also demonstrates that this priming effect cannot be attributed to strategic behaviour of the participants as opposed to automatic preactivation processes in the lexical-conceptual system. The implications for studies using the picture-word interference task as a tool for investigating lexicalization processes in speech production are discussed.
Negative priming has traditionally been viewed as a reflection of an inhibitory mechanism of attention. However, recent accounts have suggested that negative priming does not reflect inhibitory mechanisms. Rather, slowed reaction times on negative priming trials are either due to retrieval of incompatible response tags or of mismatching perceptual information, or due to extra processes needed to distinguish past from present information. In contrast, it is proposed that there is no firm evidence to discount inhibition models. In fact, although retrieval processes can be implicated in negative priming effects, understanding of these requires consideration of the inhibitory processes involved in selecting information for goal-directed behaviour.
Background and purpose: patients with cardiac arrest have a high mortality and the long-term outcome is doubtful. The prognosis is mainly dependent on clinical parameters. S-100 and neurone specific enolase (NSE) are established biochemical markers of central nervous system (CNS) injury. The purpose of this study was to validate the use of serum determinations of S-100 and NSE with neurological investigations in regard to brain damage and long-term outcome after cardiac arrest. Methods: neurological examinations were performed on 66 patients after cardiac arrest. Serum levels of S-100 and NSE were determined during the first 3 days of post arrest, using commercial luminescent immunoassays (LIAs). The main outcome variable was the Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS), while secondary variables were the activity of daily living (ADL) index and mini mental state examination (MMSE). Outcome was determined at 1 year. Results: the serum levels of S-100 and NSE were increased during the first 3 days after the arrest and were related to coma depth, time of anoxia and abnormal brain stem reflexes. High levels predicted a poor outcome, according to the GOS (death, vegetative state and severe disability). The prognostic value of the brain damage markers was comparable with that of traditional clinical parameters. None of the secondary outcome variables (ADL and MMSE) was strongly associated with S-100 or NSE. Discussion: the serum levels of S-100 and NSE increased after cardiac arrest due to the anoxic brain damage. The determination of S-100 and NSE can be used as an adjunct to predict long-term outcome after cardiac arrest.



This review describes a research program aimed at evaluating the validity and specificity of the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), one of the most widely used tests of prefrontal function in clinical and experimental neuropsychology. In spite of its extensive use, voices of caution have arisen against the use of WCST scores as direct markers of prefrontal damage or dysfunction. Adopting a cognitive neuroscience approach, the present research program integrates behavioral, physiological, and anatomical information to investigate the cognitive and neural mechanisms behind WCST performance. The results show that WCST performance evokes conspicuous physiological changes over frontal as well as posterior brain regions. Moreover, WCST scores confound very heterogeneous cognitive and neural processes. This confounding effect may have led many authors to overlook the relative importance of certain dysfunctional states such as those indexed by random errors. These findings strongly suggest that WCST scores cannot be regarded as valid nor specific markers of prefrontal lobe function. However, they do provide some relevant clues to update our current knowledge about prefrontal function. In the long run, the integrative approach of cognitive neuroscience may help us design and develop more valid and sensitive tools for neuropsychological assessment.


The administration of a neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine (MA) produces an acute elevation in the extracellular concentrations of dopamine and glutamate in the striatum and a long-term depletion of striatal dopamine content in rats. The intent of the present study was to determine whether attenuation of the MA-induced increase in extracellular glutamate would prevent the depletion of striatal dopamine. Male rats were treated with MA (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle every 2 h for four injections and concomitantly perfused intrastriatally with either artificial cerebrospinal fluid or lubeluzole (300 microM), a novel neuroprotectant that has been shown to prevent the increase in extracellular glutamate after the induction of neocortical infarct in rats. Lubeluzole significantly attenuated the MA-induced increase in extracellular glutamate in the striatum without affecting the MA-induced increase in extracellular dopamine or the MA-induced hyperthermic response. Nevertheless, lubeluzole did not prevent the long-term depletion of striatal dopamine produced by a neurotoxic regimen of MA. These results suggest that the MA-induced depletion of striatal dopamine may not be dependent on the increased extracellular concentration of striatal glutamate.



Categorization is among the most important skills that any organism can possess. Recent advances in cognitive neuroscience have led to new insights about the neural basis of category learning. Perhaps most important is the finding that many different, widely separated neural structures appear to participate in category learning, but to varying degrees that depend on category structure. In particular, different brain regions are implicated according to whether the category-learning task involves explicit rules, prototype distortion or information integration.
The processing of visual information combines bottom-up sensory aspects with top-down influences, most notably attentional processes. Attentional influences have now been demonstrated throughout visual cortex, and their influence on the processing of visual information is profound. Neuronal responses to attended locations or stimulus features are enhanced, whereas those from unattended locations or features are suppressed. This influence of attention increases as one ascends the hierarchy of visual areas in primate cortex, ultimately resulting in a neural representation of the visual world that is dominated by the behavioral relevance of the information, rather than designed to provide an accurate and complete description of it. This realization has led to a rethinking of the role of areas that have previously been considered to be &quot;purely sensory&quot;.
The possibility that spreading depression (SD) of cortical activity, a phenomenon observed in all vertebrates, causes the aura of migraine remains an open question in spite of nearly half a century of investigation. SD is also thought to be associated with the progressive neuronal injury observed during cerebral ischaemia. Thus, the ability to detect and investigate SD in humans might prove clinically significant. Animal studies of cortical spreading depression (CSD) have benefited greatly from the advent of relatively non-invasive imaging techniques. The use of these new imaging techniques for clinical studies will accelerate progress in this area of neurobiology.
The recent success of large-scale industrialized genomic sequencing opens new doors in studies of biological systems. In the current post-genomic era we must ask how to translate this DNA sequence information into an understanding of living cells, tissues and organisms. One of the major goals is to characterize protein function, biochemical pathways and networks. Achieving this aim is greatly advanced by application of new proteomic tools combined with database mining. Neuroscience in particular is poised to benefit from these approaches in light of its high complexity and cross-talk between different neurotransmitter receptors within the same synapse or across the synaptic cleft. Little is known about the global in vivo protein interactions within synapses, and the knowledge of all proteins present in such structures will help in determining sub-complexes and the modular arrangement of proteins within them. This article reviews the impact of and outlines the application of proteomic analysis in the field of neuroscience, illustrating this with the example of NMDA receptor complexes.

Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the most prevalent inhibitory neurotransmitter in the vertebrate brain. It can exert its influence either as GABAergic projection pathways or as local interneurons, which play an essential role in many visual functions. However, no GABAergic visual pathways have been studied in frogs so far. In the present study, GABAergic pathways in the central visual system of Rana pipiens were investigated with double-labeling techniques, combining immunocytochemistry for GABA with Rhodamine microspheres for retrograde tracing. Three GABAergic visual pathways were identified: (1) a retino-tectal projection, from retina to the contralateral optic tectum (OT); (2) an ipsilateral projection from the nucleus of the basal optic root (nBOR) to the pretectal nucleus lentiformis mesencephali (nLM); and (3) a second-order pathway from the nucleus isthmi (NI), bilaterally, to the optic tectum. These results indicate that GABA is involved in both first-order (retina to optic tectum) as well as second-order (nucleus isthmi to optic tectum) visual projections in Rana pipiens, and may play a major role in mediating visuomotor reflexs such as optokinetic nystagmus or other visually guided behaviors.
Spinal bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA) is one of a family of inherited neurodegenerative diseases caused by expansion of CAG encoding polyglutamine repeats; in SBMA the affected gene is the androgen receptor. To understand further the mechanisms that lead to neuronal cell death in SBMA, we generated SHSY5Y neuroblastoma cell lines that stably express identical levels of wild-type (19 polyglutamine repeat) or SBMA (52 polyglutamine repeat) androgen receptor. Parental SHSY5Y cells do not express detectable levels of the androgen receptor. In the absence of androgen, the transfected cell lines have similar phenotypes and growth characteristics to parental SHSY5Y cells. However, upon treatment with androgen, both cell lines undergo a marked dose-dependent loss of viability; this loss was significantly greater in cells expressing the SBMA receptor. Morphological analyses of the androgen treated cells revealed that cell death bore hallmarks of apoptosis involving altered nuclear morphology and cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase and of caspase 3 in both wild-type and SBMA cell lines. The caspase inhibitor VAD-fmk was able to decrease loss of viability of both cell lines on exposure to androgen.
The staggerer (Rora(sg/sg)) mutation is a deletion in the RORalpha gene, one member of a family of nuclear receptor genes related to the retinoic acid receptor. Recently Steinmayr et al. (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95 (1998) 3960) generated a RORalpha null-mutant mouse (Rora(-/-)) by using a targeting vector in which a beta-Gal gene replaces the second finger of the DNA-binding domain of RORalpha. The Rora(-/-) cerebellum is qualitatively a phenocopy of the Rora(sg/sg) one, but the two strains differ slightly in their motor skills. To address the question whether the morphological defects in the Rora(-/-) cerebellum are identical to the Rora(sg/sg) one, we compared number and size of Purkinje cells in both staggerer and RORalpha null-mutant mice, using calbindin (CaBP) immunohistochemistry and revelation of beta-Gal activity. Compared to control cerebella the Rora(sg/sg) cerebellum has 82% fewer CaBP-positive cells. In Rora(-/-) mouse, all the the beta-Gal-positive Purkinje cells also expressed CaBP, but the cerebellum contained 78% less CaBP-positive cells than control, a deficit not different from the one observed in Rora(sg/sg). We show similar mediolateral compartments in Purkinje cell number and cytological abnormality in Rora(sg/sg) and Rora(-/-) mice. These results provide quantitative support for the hypothesis that the cerebellar phenotype in the homozygous Rora(sg/sg) is due to the lack of function of the RORalpha gene.
The ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (VNLL) is a prominent neuronal group that lies within the auditory pathway connecting the auditory lower brainstem and midbrain. Previous physiologic studies showed that VNLL neurons respond mainly to contralaterally presented sounds and display various firing patterns. To understand better the role that VNLL neurons play in transmitting and processing of auditory information, we examined the morphology of VNLL neurons and their cellular physiology in young rat brain slices. We made whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and labeled cells intracellularly with neurobiotin to investigate the relation between morphologic neuronal types, intrinsic membrane properties, and postsynaptic responses. VNLL neurons fell into two distinct morphologic groups, i.e., bushy cells and stellate cells, based on their dendritic patterns. Stellate cells were grouped further into stellate I, II, and elongate cells according to soma shape, dendritic branches, and orientation. Bushy cells showed an onset firing pattern and a nonlinear current-voltage relationship. All three subtypes of stellate cells had a linear current-voltage relationship, but exhibited different firing patterns. Stellate I cells showed regular and onset-pause firing patterns, whereas stellate II cells showed adapting and elongate cells showed burst firing patterns. Bushy cells and stellate cells responded to stimulation of the lateral lemniscus with excitatory and/or inhibitory synaptic potentials. These results suggest that the VNLL is a heterogeneous neuronal group and that it contains many channels for processing different kinds of auditory information. Neuronal morphology and intrinsic membrane properties contribute to the behavior of individual neurons.
The membrane-associated protein SCG10 is expressed specifically by neuronal cells. Recent experiments have suggested that it promotes neurite outgrowth by increasing microtubule dynamics in growth cones. SCG10 is related to the ubiquitous but neuron-enriched cytosolic protein stathmin. To better understand the role played by SCG10 and stathmin in vivo, we have analyzed the expression and localization of these proteins in both the olfactory epithelium and the olfactory bulb in developing and adult rats, as well as in adult bulbectomized rats. The olfactory epithelium is exceptional in that olfactory receptor neurons constantly regenerate and reinnervate the olfactory bulb throughout animal life-span. SCG10 and stathmin expression in the olfactory receptor neurons was found to be regulated during embryonic and postnatal development and to correlate with neuronal maturation. Whereas SCG10 expression was restricted to immature olfactory receptor neurons (GAP-43-positive, olfactory marker protein-negative), stathmin was also expressed by the basal cells. In the olfactory bulb of postnatal and adult rats, a moderate to strong SCG10 immunoreactivity was present in the olfactory nerve layer, whereas no labeling was detected in the glomerular layer. Olfactory glomeruli also showed no apparent immunoreactivity for several cytoskeletal proteins such as tubulin and microtubule-associated proteins. In unilaterally bulbectomized rats, SCG10 and stathmin were seen to be up-regulated in the regenerating olfactory epithelium at postsurgery stages corresponding to olfactory axon regeneration. Our data strongly suggest that, in vivo, both SCG10 and stathmin may play a role in axonal outgrowth during ontogenesis as well as during axonal regeneration.
alpha-2A-adrenergic receptor (alpha2A-AR) agonists modulate diverse autonomic functions. These actions are believed to involve functionally specialized, second-order neurons in catecholamine-containing portions of the medial nucleus tractus solitarius (mNTS) at both intermediate (NTSi) and caudal (NTSc) levels. However, the cellular mechanisms subserving alpha2A-AR-mediated actions within the mNTS have yet to be established. Immunocytochemistry was employed to examine the subcellular distribution of alpha2A-AR in both the intermediate and caudal mNTS and its association with cells containing the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Quantitative regional comparison using immunogold showed that this receptor was distributed differentially to dendrites (NTSi, 46%; NTSc, 31%) and glia (NTSi, 29%; NTSc, 48%) at different levels of the NTS. Somata, axons, and terminals less frequently contained alpha2A-AR. The subcellular distribution of alpha2A-AR relative to catecholaminergic neurons also was similar within both subregions. Approximately 50% of alpha2A-AR-labeled somata also contained TH. In somatic profiles, alpha2A-AR labeling was often found in the cytosol and in association with endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complexes, sites of receptor synthesis and trafficking. Approximately 20% of alpha2A-AR-immunoreactive dendrites also contained TH, where the receptor was often found on extrasynaptic portions of the plasma membrane near unlabeled terminals, some of which made symmetric contacts. However, TH-labeled terminals and dendrites usually were detected in the neuropil at a short distance (&lt;10 microm) from alpha2A-AR-labeled neurons. alpha2A-AR-labeled glia frequently apposed unlabeled dendrites and terminals and were often located near TH-immunoreactive dendrites. These results indicate that, within the mNTS, alpha2A-AR is involved in a variety of autonomic processes, including postsynaptic modulation of mostly noncatecholaminergic dendrites, as well as influencing glia functions.
Tachykinins are involved in pain transmission at the spinal level. In frog, at least four tachykinins [TK] have been isolated from the brain, but their organization in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord is still poorly known. We have reexamined TK distribution by immunocytochemistry using an antibody recognizing the sequence common to all tachykinins in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia of the green frog Rana esculenta. A dense tachykinin-like immunoreactivity (TK-LI) was observed in the dorsolateral fasciculus or Lissauer's tract running ventromedial to the entry of the dorsal root and in numerous small and medium-sized dorsal root ganglion cells showing a primary afferent origin for part of TK-LI of the dorsal horn. The observation of numerous cell bodies in the dorsal horn, in addition, suggested a local or propriospinal origin. One group of cells was localized at the entrance of the Lissauer's tract TK-LI fibers into the dorsal horn, and another group was localized in the upper dorsal horn, a region with a low density of TK-LI fibers. It was suggested that the latter group may correspond to neurokinin B. Electron microscopic examination of the Lissauer's tract showed numerous immunoreactive axons, some located at the center of glomerular-like arrangements, suggesting that the information brought by these fibers may be transmitted and most probably modulated before their entry in the dorsal horn. In conclusion, the functional organization of tachykinins in the frog spinal cord seems to be similar to that of mammals, albeit with a different morphological organization.
Single-cell recording from the brain of non-human primates has traditionally been performed in monkeys seated in a primate chair. However, this arrangement makes long-term recordings difficult, causes stress that may confound the data, and prevents the manifestation of natural behaviors. Extending our previous neurophysiological studies in non-human primates (Ludvig et al. Brain Res. Protocols 2000;5:75-85), we have developed a method for recording the electrical activity of single hippocampal neurons in freely moving squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus). The recording sessions lasted for up to 6 h, during which the monkeys moved freely around on the walls and the floor of a large test chamber and collected food pellets. Stable action potential waveforms were readily kept throughout the sessions. The following factors proved to be critical in this study: (a) selecting squirrel monkeys for the experiments, (b) using a driveable bundle of microwires for the recordings, (c) using a special recording cable, (d) implanting the microwires into the brain without causing neurological deficits, and (e) running the recording sessions in a special test chamber. The described method allows long-term extracellular recordings from the brain of non-human primates, without the stress of chairing, during a wide range of natural behaviors. Using this model, new insights can be obtained into the unique firing repertoire of the neurons of the primate brain.
Nonhuman primates offer a unique resource in neuroimaging research, providing the opportunity to manipulate appropriate biological and behavioral variables under well-controlled experimental conditions in an animal model that is closely related to humans, both functionally and neuroanatomically. The present report describes the development and standardization of PET neuroimaging protocols in conscious rhesus monkeys and their application to characterize the acute effects of cocaine on cerebral blood flow. Specific attention was devoted to the development of an effective and comfortable head restraint device to be used in the imaging of conscious monkeys. The restraint device was designed to attach to a standard primate chair to facilitate frequent immobilization. Subjects received extensive behavioral training prior to neuroimaging in order to ensure their comfort and minimize potential stress associated with the imaging protocols. Functional changes in cerebral blood flow were characterized in three subjects with the positron-emitting tracer 15O water following acute i.v. administration of cocaine. Regions of interest were defined on MRI scans with a high degree of accuracy. Cocaine caused pronounced increases in cerebral blood flow at 5 min postinjection that diminished markedly within 25 min. The results document the feasibility to conduct PET neuroimaging studies of cerebral blood flow in conscious nonhuman primates. Extension of the methodology to include brain activation during behavioral studies could contribute significantly to the growing discipline of behavioral neuroscience.
In vitro studies of dissociated neurons have provided crucial data regarding the regulation of plasticity in embryonic and perinatal neurons from both central and peripheral nervous systems. There have been few attempts to apply these methods to adult or aged neurons and the methods that have been reported have not been able to dissect the possible confounding contributions of non-neuronal cells and serum. Furthermore, quantitative assays of cultured neurons, particularly of their growth, have rarely been described. We report here the development of a novel method for the dissociation, purification and culture of sympathetic neurons from the adult and aged rat SCG under serum free conditions and in defined media. The technique results in a relatively high yield of viable, growing neurons. We describe methods for assaying the total yield of neurons, the proportion of surviving neurons and the proportion of neurons initiating neurite outgrowth after plating. A novel semiautomated assay of neurite outgrowth is outlined using image analysis of composite images of immunofluorescence-stained single neurons.
We have developed a novel method for detecting licking at a fluid well that is compatible with behavioral neurophysiology. This method uses off-the-shelf fiber optic technology to introduce a light beam through the fluid-air interface of a fluid bolus in a well. A self-adjusting optical sensor detects licking as disturbances in the amplified light surface within the interface when the fluid is disturbed. The proper configuration of fluid well and fiber optics will reliably detect licking and introduce no artifacts into simultaneous high-impedance recordings of extracellular neural activity. This method is also compatible with delivery of multiple fluids to the same well. Unlike present methods of detecting licking in neurophysiological experiments, our approach does not involve the passage of current or capacitance changes in which the animal forms part of a circuit, nor does it require movement of the licking apparatus or any other response beyond the actual licking of the fluid. As a result, noise artifacts in the unit recordings do not occur, and the sensor is highly resistant to artifacts caused by exploration or licking at the fluid well in the absence of liquid. We present neural recording data from units in the nucleus accumbens demonstrating these properties of the lick detector.
We have developed an instrument to perform microinjections of solid neural tracers into deep structures of the brain. The instrument consists of a thin hypodermic needle equipped with a movable internal rod, which is connected to a pressure chamber. When a pressure pulse is applied to the chamber, the rod moves forward and back inside the needle, pushing out a solid load previously packed inside the needle tip. By attaching a microelectrode to the instrument, it is also possible to have electrophysiological control of the injection placement. To test the instrument, we microinjected DiI and rhodamine crystals into selected structures of the visual system of pigeons. The results show small, well-defined injection sites, accurately located in the desired targets, together with well-developed anterogade and retrograde transport, selectively originated from the injection sites. This method extends the usage of solid tracers to most structures in the brain and may, in certain cases, be more advantageous than the conventional method of injecting tracer solutions.
Skeletal muscle is a convenient model system for studying basic questions on the neural regulation of synaptogenesis and of many properties of sarcolemma and contractile apparatus. The study of the neural signals involved in a particular regulation and of the mediating intracellular pathways, requires the chronic application of drugs, second messengers, antibodies, trophic factors and the like. The most common way of application is in vitro treatment of muscle cell lines or primary myotube cultures. As an alternative to tissue culture, we developed a technique for in vivo application of the agents under study directly on skeletal muscle. An initial surgical step secures the tip of a fine polyethylene catheter (&lt;or=250 microm) onto the proximal surface of the adult rat soleus muscle. The onset of perfusion of the solution containing the agent, however, starts only 10-15 days later, pushed by an implanted Alzet pump connected to the catheter. After chronic in vivo treatment for the appropriate number of days, the muscle is processed as needed. We used various agents which are known to affect muscle fibre acetylcholine receptor regulation, namely, CGRP, tetrodotoxin, and KCl and obtained results which demonstrate the full effectiveness of this way of application.
We study the propagation of traveling solitary pulses in one-dimensional networks of excitatory and inhibitory integrate-and-fire neurons. Slow pulses, during which inhibitory cells fire well before neighboring excitatory cells, can propagate along the network at intermediate inhibition levels. At higher levels, they destabilize via a Hopf bifurcation. There is a bistable parameter regime in which both fast and slow pulses can propagate. Lurching pulses with spatiotemporal periodicity can propagate in regimes for which continuous pulses do not exist.
The cytokine interleukin-12 (IL-12) is mainly produced in response to bacterial or parasitic infections. We examined the capacity of mouse brain microglia to release IL-12 forms upon challenge with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and studied its modulation by sympathomimetics. LPS evoked the release of IL-12p40 whereas the heterodimeric form, IL-12p70 was virtually undetectable. Sympathomimetics such as salbutamol dose-dependently inhibited IL-12p40 release, whereas the production of IL-6, TNFalpha and MIP-1alpha was only marginally influenced. The inhibitory effect of salbutamol could be abolished by beta-antagonists, such as oxprenolol. The cAMP-elevating agent forskolin could mimic the effects of beta-agonists, indicating that IL-12p40 release inhibition involves intracellular cAMP accumulation. While microglial IL-12p40 may play a role in the regulation of IL-12p70 bioactivity, microglial release is itself modulated by IL-12p70. Recombinant IL-12p70 was found to enhance the LPS-evoked release of MIP-1alpha and to have a biphasic effect on both TNFalpha and MIP-1alpha with release augmentation at lower and attenuation at higher doses. Finally, no functional correlation was found between the release of IL-12p40 and the induction of Kv1.3 potassium channels, another marker of microglial activation. Taken together, beta(2)-adrenoreceptor-mediated effects on microglial cyto- and chemokine release via cAMP accumulation could modulate inflammatory cascades during bacterial infections.
Neurophysiological assessment of the preterm human neonatal oromotor system has been limited due to their fragile medical state, and methodological limitations. A new, noninvasive technology known as the actifier was developed and used to evoke perioral motor unit activity during non-nutritive suck in preterm infants. A significant ontologic trend for the early component of the perioral reflex (R1) was discovered in the context of spontaneous, centrally-patterned oromotor behavior.
With advancing age, the incidence of neuronal atrophy and dystrophy increases and, in parallel, behavioural sensorimotor impairment becomes overt. Activated microglia has been implicated in cytotoxic and inflammatory processes in neurodegenerative diseases as well as during aging. Here we have used immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization to examine the expression of OX42, ED1, ED2, GFAP and clusterin in CNS of young adult and behaviourally tested aged rats (30-month-old), to study the occurrence of activated microglia/ED1 positive macrophages in senescence and to what extent this correlates with astrogliosis and signs of sensorimotor impairment among the individuals. The results show a massive region-specific increase in activated microglia and ED1 expressing cell profiles in aged rats. The infiltration was most prominent in the spinal cord dorsal columns, including their sensory relay nuclei, and the outer portions of the lateral and ventral columns. At such sites the occurrence of macrophages coincided with increased levels of GFAP and positive correlations were evident between the labeling for, on the one hand, OX42 and, on the other, GFAP and ED1. Also, the ventral and dorsal roots were heavily infiltrated by ED1 positive cells. The signs of gliosis were most pronounced among aged rats with advanced sensorimotor impairment. In contrast, the grey matter of aged rats showed very few activated microglia/ED1 labeled cells despite signs of focal astrogliosis. ED2 expression was confined to perivascular cells and leptominges with a similar labeling pattern in young and aged rats. In aged rats increased expression of clusterin was observed in GFAP-immunoreactive profiles of the white matter only. It is suggested that this increase may reflect a response to degenerative/inflammatory processes.
The two immunosuppressants, cyclosporin A (CsA) and FK506, when given 1 and 3 h after the start of reperfusion following 2 h of middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion, reduce infarct volume to 30% of control. This suggests a common effect, e.g. one due to suppression of the activation of calcineurin. However, when given by the intracarotid (i.c.) route after only 5 min of recirculation CsA, but not FK506, reduced infarct volume even further, to 10% of control. This was attributed to the fact that CsA, but not FK506, block the in vitro assembly of a mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) pore. The present experiments were undertaken to further characterize the anti-ischemic effect of CsA, when given i.c. 5 min after recirculation and to explore why CsA, when given at that time, is more efficacious than FK506. It was established that the i.c. administration of CsA in a dose of 10 mg/kg increased the tissue concentration of CsA 2- to 3-fold, when compared to the i.v. administration. CsA proved to be effective in reducing infarct volume even when the tissue damage was assessed by histopathology after 7 days of recovery. MCA occlusion of 2 h duration caused a sustained decrease in the phosphorylation Akt at threonine 308. Since this down regulation of Akt was prevented by CsA, the results suggested a link between dephosphorylaltion of Bad, and cell death. Interestingly FK506 did not prevent down regulation of Akt, it thus seems unlikely that the anti-ischemic effect of CsA is related to its association with cytosolic cyclophilin.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) plays a key role in motor control. Disorganization of its neuronal activity is implicated in the manifestation of parkinsonian motor symptoms. The aim of the present work was to study the time-course of changes in the firing activity of STN neurons in a rat model of parkinsonism. Electrophysiological recordings were done in normal rats and four groups of rats at different time points after 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) microinjection into the pars compacta of substantia nigra (SNc). Results showed a significant decrease in firing rate during the first and second weeks post lesion (5.53+/-0.56 and 7.66+/-0.73 spikes/s, respectively) compared to normal rats (11.13+/-0.59 spikes/s). From the 3rd week after 6-OHDA injection the firing rates returned toward baseline, with an average of 9.71+/-0.51 spikes/s during the 3rd week and 11.13+/-0.71 spikes/s during the 4th week. With regard to firing pattern, the majority of STN cells (90%) discharged regularly or slightly irregularly in normal animals. Only 4% exhibited burst activity and 6% had mixed firing patterns. After SNc-lesion, the percentage of cells exhibiting burst and mixed patterns increased progressively from 35% during the first week to 56% at week 4 post-lesion. In sum, these experiments revealed that the firing rate of STN neurons was altered only transiently following nigral lesions, whereas a progressive and stable change in the firing pattern was observed up to 4 weeks post lesion, suggesting that the persistence of bursts firing more closely relates to the motor pathologies of this rat model of parkinsonism.
This study investigated the effects of repeated administrations of nicotine (0.7 mg/kg) on dendritic morphology in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), prefrontal cortex (Cg 3), and parietal cortex (Par 1). Animals were habituated for 3 days to a locomotor box, and after habituation, every second day for 5 weeks rats were placed into the locomotor chamber immediately after a subcutaneous injection of nicotine or saline. Rats demonstrated tolerance to an initial hypoactive response after each nicotine injection, and this was followed by an increase in activity after each injection (behavioral sensitization). This increase in activity was still present on a nicotine challenge after a 2-week abstinence period. One week after the nicotine challenge day, all rats were perfused and brains were removed. These brains we stained using Golgi-Cox procedures, and dendrites from the nucleus accumbens (N Acc), medial frontal cortex (Cg 3) and parietal cortex (Par 1) were analyzed using the camera lucida procedure. Results showed that rats receiving nicotine demonstrated an increase in dendritic length and spine density relative to controls in the NAcc and Cg3 brain areas, but not Par 1. The increase observed in the NAcc was significantly greater than what has been found with amphetamine or cocaine, and possible underlying mechanisms were discussed.
The aims were (i) to investigate heteronymous excitatory and inhibitory Group Ia reflexes linking agonist/antagonist muscle pairs acting at the shoulder and elbow; clavicular pectoralis major (Pmajor) and posterior deltoid (Pdeltoid); biceps brachii (Bi) and Tri brachii (Tri), and linking muscles acting at the elbow (Bi and Tri) with muscles acting at the shoulder (Pmajor and Pdeltoid). (ii) To test the hypothesis that the excitability of the reflexes would vary between different tasks in a functionally relevant manner. The study was performed on 45 adults. Reflexes were recorded in the surface EMG when the target muscle was contracting at 10% maximum voluntary contraction. Reflexes were recorded in Bi and Tri with the elbow joint in one of three positions: 105 degrees, 80 degrees, or 55 degrees from full extension. Group Ia reflexes were evoked using a small, brief tap to the tendon of the muscle being stimulated. Reflexes were recorded by cross-correlation of the surface EMG and pseudo-random series of taps. All subjects demonstrated short latency inhibition and excitation between agonist/antagonist muscle pairs; inhibition was significantly more frequent than excitation. Excitation and inhibition occurred with equal frequency between muscle pairs acting between elbow and shoulder. Minimum central delays for excitatory reflexes were 1 ms, consistent with monosynaptic projections and for inhibitory responses were 2 ms consistent with disynaptic linkage. Later excitatory and inhibitory reflexes with central delays of up to 15 ms also occurred. The probability of evoking excitation or inhibition in Tri or Bi changed with the different elbow positions.
The aims were (1) to determine when in human postnatal development Group Ia reciprocal and Renshaw inhibition can be demonstrated; (2) to explore the relationship between the expression reciprocal inhibition and the disappearance of Group Ia excitatory reflexes between agonist and antagonist muscles. Studies were performed on 99 subjects, aged 1 day to 31 years, of whom 53 were neonates. A longitudinal study was also performed on 29 subjects recruited at birth and studied 3 monthly until 12 months of age. Reciprocal inhibitory and excitatory reflexes were recorded in the surface EMG of contracting biceps brachii (Bi), evoked by taps applied to the tendon of triceps brachii (Tri). Reciprocal excitatory reflexes were recorded in all but one neonate. Reciprocal inhibition was observed in 25% of neonates; evidence is provided that it was likely to have been masked by low threshold reciprocal excitation in the remaining neonates. Reciprocal inhibition was demonstrated in all subjects after 9 months of age. In four neonates there was depression of inhibition of Bi during co-contraction of Bi and Tri implying that Group Ia interneurones may be under segmental and suprasegmental control at birth. Renshaw cells, identified in human postmortem cervical spinal cord by their morphology, location and calbindin D28K immunoreactivity, were present at 11 weeks post-conceptional age (PCA) and by 35 weeks PCA had mature morphological characteristics. In four neonates reciprocal inhibitory responses in Bi disappeared when the tap to Tri evoked its own homonymous phasic stretch reflex, providing neurophysiological evidence for Renshaw inhibition of Group Ia inhibitory interneurones.
Interleukin (IL)-2 is a cytokine that influences exploratory behavior and central dopamine activity in rodents, and induces schizophrenic-like behavior and cognitive deficits in humans. We presently report that a single i.p. injection of murine IL-2 (0.05-0.80 microg/mouse) induced significant increases in novelty-induced locomotion and exploration in BALB/c mice. These measures were not significantly altered in mice that were pre-exposed to the test cage prior to cytokine injection. The IL-2-induced behavioral changes were not further augmented by repeated intermittent injections (five daily i.p. injections; 0.4 microg/mouse), however. Nonetheless, during the treatment period, activity scores of IL-2-treated mice significantly exceeded those of mice receiving saline; hence, repeated injections of IL-2 induced a persistent behavioral activation. IL-2 treatment also increased sensitivity to the behavior-stimulating effects of GBR 12909, a highly selective dopamine uptake inhibitor. This effect was a very long-lasting one since the dopamine agonist was administered 6 weeks after cessation of IL-2 treatment. The latter finding indicates that IL-2 interacts with the mesolimbic dopamine system, changing its sensitivity to seemingly different substances. Based on these data, and those of Zalcman and colleagues (S. Zalcman, I. Savina, R.A. Wise, Interleukin-6 increases sensitivity to the locomotor-stimulating effects of amphetamine in rats, Brain Res. 847 (1999) 276-283), it is suggested that cytokines can influence the development of behavioral abnormalities that are characteristic of aberrant mesolimbic dopamine activity via sensitization-like processes.
The effects of ethanol and higher alcohols on 45Ca(2+) fluxes, mediated by voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels (VDCCs), were investigated in inside-out transverse (T)-tubule membrane vesicles from rabbit skeletal muscle. 45Ca(2+) effluxes were induced by membrane potentials generated via establishing K(+) gradients across the vesicles, and were significantly inhibited by the inorganic Ca(2+) channel blocker La(3+) (1 mM) and the Ca(2+) channel antagonist nifedipine (1-10 microM). Ethanol, in the concentration range of 100-400 mM, caused a significant suppression of depolarization-induced 45Ca(2+) fluxes. Ethanol also functionally modulated the effect of nifedipine (1-10 microM) and the Ca(2+) channel agonist Bay K 8644 (1 microM) on Ca(2+) effluxes. Pretreatment with pertussis toxin (5 microg/ml) or phorbol 12-myrstate 13-acetate (PMA, 50 nM) did not affect the ethanol inhibition of 45Ca(2+) fluxes. Further experiments with alcohols revealed that butanol, hexanol, octanol and decanol also significantly inhibited 45Ca(2+) effluxes. However, undecanol and dodecanol did not cause any significant change on 45Ca(2+) fluxes, indicating that the effects of alcohols on 45Ca(2+) effluxes exhibit a cut-off phenomenon. In radioligand binding studies, it was found that at the concentrations used in flux studies, alcohols did not alter the characteristics of the specific binding of [3H]PN 200-110 to T-tubule membranes. Results indicate that ethanol directly inhibits the function of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels without modulating the specific binding of Ca(2+) channel ligands of the dihydropyridine class, and that this inhibition is independent of intracellular Ca(2+) levels.
When accumulation of a malfolded protein in the endoplastic reticulum (ER) is induced by various adverse conditions, such as hypoxia, glucose starvation, and perturbation of calcium homeostasis, cells respond to the stress by increasing transcription of genes encoding ER molecular chaperones, a process known as unfolded protein response. The signaling is initiated by IRE1s, ER stress sensors. Alternatively, excessive stress to the ER results in apoptosis. Caspase-12 is known to be essential for this ER stress-induced apoptosis. In this study, we analyzed the detailed regulatory mechanisms of IRE1s during ER stress. We identified c-Jun N-terminal inhibitory kinase (JIK) as a binding partner of IRE1alpha, and JIK was seen to modulate IRE1alpha-TRAF2 (tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 2) complex formation and the resultant alteration to c-Jun N-terminal kinase signaling from IRE1s in response to ER stress. We also demonstrated that TRAF2 interacts with procaspase-12 and promotes the clustering of procaspase-12 and its activation by cleavage in response to ER stress. These results indicate that TRAF2 plays crucial roles not only in the signaling of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase pathway but also in activation of caspase-12 to transduce signals from IRE1s. Thus, we provide a missing link in the ER stress-induced apoptosis-signaling pathway, one which connects the stress sensor molecule IRE1 and the activation of caspase-12.
We found in the present study that stimulation of A(2A) adenosine receptors (A(2A)-R) prevents apoptosis in PC12 cells. This A(2A)-protective effect was blocked by protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitors and was not observed in a PKA-deficient PC12 variant. Stimulation of PKA also prevented apoptosis, suggesting that PKA is required for the protective effect of A(2A)-R. A general PKC inhibitor, but not down-regulation of conventional and novel PKCs, readily blocked the protective effect of A(2A)-R stimulation and PKA activation, suggesting that atypical PKCs (aPKCs) serve a critical role downstream of PKA. Consistent with this hypothesis, stimulation of A(2A)-R or PKA enhanced nuclear aPKC activity. In addition, the A(2A)-protective effect was blocked by a specific inhibitor of one aPKC, PKCzeta, whereas overexpression of a dominant-positive PKCzeta enhanced survival. In contrast, inhibitors of MAP kinase and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase did not modulate the A(2A)-protective effect. Dominant-negative Akt also did not alter the A(2A)-protective effect, whereas it significantly reduced the protective action of nerve growth factor. Collectively, these data suggest that aPKCs can function downstream of PKA to mediate the A(2A)-R-promoted survival of PC12 cells. Furthermore, the results indicate that different extracellular stimuli can employ distinct signaling pathways to protect against apoptosis induced by the same insult.
The repressor element-1/neuron-restrictive silencing element (RE-1/NRSE) mediates transcriptional repression by the repressor element silencing transcription factor/neuron-restrictive silencing factor (REST/NRSF) in many neuron-specific genes. REST/NRSF is expressed most highly in non-neural tissues, where it is thought to repress gene transcription, but is also found in developing neurons and at low levels in the brain. Its null mutation in vivo results in embryonic lethality in mice. While the RE-1/NRSE-mediated repressive influence of REST/NRSF is well established, results in transgenic studies have suggested that the action of the system is more complex. Here, we report that transcription of the corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) gene is regulated by REST/NRSF, in part through the RE-1/NRSE. Expression of transfected Crh-luciferase constructs was down-regulated by REST/NRSF in a RE-1/NRSE-dependent fashion in both muscle-derived L6 and REST/NRSF co-transfected neuronal PC12 cells. Treatment of L6 cells with trichostatin A revealed that REST/NRSF repression depends, in part, on histone deacetylase activity in these cells. In another neuronal cell line, NG108, REST/NRSF also repressed expression from constructs containing an intact RE-1/NRSE. However, unexpectedly, REST/NRSF up-regulated expression levels of constructs lacking an intact RE-1/NRSE. These results suggest that REST/NRSF can act as both a repressor of Crh transcription, via the Crh RE-1/NRSE, and an enhancer of Crh transcription, via a mechanism independent of the Crh RE-1/NRSE.
Protein phosphatase inhibitor-1 is a prototypical mediator of cross-talk between protein kinases and protein phosphatases. Activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase results in phosphorylation of inhibitor-1 at Thr-35, converting it into a potent inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1. Here we report that inhibitor-1 is phosphorylated in vitro at Ser-67 by the proline-directed kinases, Cdk1, Cdk5, and mitogen-activated protein kinase. By using phosphorylation state-specific antibodies and selective protein kinase inhibitors, Cdk5 was found to be the only kinase that phosphorylates inhibitor-1 at Ser-67 in intact striatal brain tissue. In vitro and in vivo studies indicated that phospho-Ser-67 inhibitor-1 was dephosphorylated by protein phosphatases-2A and -2B. The state of phosphorylation of inhibitor-1 at Ser-67 was dynamically regulated in striatal tissue by glutamate-dependent regulation of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid-type channels. Phosphorylation of Ser-67 did not convert inhibitor-1 into an inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1. However, inhibitor-1 phosphorylated at Ser-67 was a less efficient substrate for cAMP-dependent protein kinase. These results demonstrate regulation of a Cdk5-dependent phosphorylation site in inhibitor-1 and suggest a role for this site in modulating the amplitude of signal transduction events that involve cAMP-dependent protein kinase activation.
Negative regulation of neuronal serotonin (5-HT1A) receptor levels by glucocorticoids in vivo may contribute to depression. Both types I (mineralocorticoid) and II (glucocorticoid) receptors (MR and GR, respectively) participate in corticosteroid-induced transcriptional repression of the 5-HT1A gene; however, the precise mechanism is unclear. A direct repeat 6-base pair glucocorticoid response element (GRE) half-site 5'-TGTCCT separated by 6 nucleotides was conserved in human, mouse, and rat 5-HT1A receptor promoters. In SN-48 neuronal cells that express MR, GR, and 5-HT1A receptors, deletion or inactivation of the nGRE (negative GRE) eliminated negative regulation of the rat 5-HT1A or heterologous promoters by corticosteroids, whereas its inclusion conferred corticosteroid-induced inhibition to a heterologous promoter. Bacterially expressed recombinant MR and GR preferentially bound to the nGRE as a heterodimer, as identified in nuclear extracts of MR/GR-transfected COS-7 cells, and with higher affinity than MR or GR homodimers. In SN48 and COS-7 cells, concentration-dependent coactivation of MR and GR was required for maximal inhibitory action by corticosteroids and was abrogated in the L501P-GR mutant lacking DNA binding activity. Corticosteroid-mediated transcriptional inhibition was greater for MR/GR in combination than for MR or GR alone. These data represent the first identification of an nMRE/GRE and indicate that heterodimerization of MR and GR mediates direct corticosteroid-induced transrepression of the 5-HT1A receptor promoter.
Muscarinic receptors have been implicated in the regulation of cognition and psychosis based on pharmacological evidence from pre-clinical and clinical studies. Muscarinic agonists have shown promise in the clinic in improving cognition and reducing psychotic episodes in Alzheimer's patients. However, lack of selective muscarinic ligands has limited their use due to troublesome side effects observed at higher doses. Without selective ligands, it has been difficult to assign a specific muscarinic receptor subtype to these high order mental processes. Recent development of muscarinic receptor knockout mice has provided additional tools to investigate cognition and psychosis in behavioral assays and to determine the receptor subtypes associated with parasympathomimetic physiology. Biochemical studies indicate that the M1 receptor plays a significant role in regulating G alpha q-mediated signal transduction in the hippocampus and cortex. Behavioral studies suggest that the M4 receptor is involved in movement regulation and prepulse inhibition of the startle reflex, a measure of attention. These findings support a role for the development of M1 and M4 receptor agonists for diseases in which symptoms include cognitive impairment and psychotic behaviors.
Determination of muscarinic agonist-induced parasympathomimetic effects in wild type and M2 and M4 muscarinic receptor knockout mice revealed that M2 receptors mediated tremor and hypothermia, but not salivation. The M4 receptors seem to play a modest role in salivation, but did not alter hypothermia and tremor. In the M2 knockout mice, agonist-induced bradycardia in isolated spontaneously beating atria was completely absent compared to their wild type litter mates, whereas agonist-induced bradycardia was similar in the M4 knockout and wild type mice. The potency of carbachol to stimulate contraction of isolated stomach fundus, urinary bladder and trachea was reduced by a factor of about 2 in the M2 knockout mice, but was unaltered in the M4 knockout mice. The binding of the muscarinic agonist, [3H]-oxotremorine-M, was reduced in cortical tissue from the M2 knockout mice and to a lesser extent from the M4 knockout mice, and was reduced over 90% in the brain stem of M2 knockout mice. The data demonstrate the usefulness of knockout mice in determining the physiological function of peripheral and central muscarinic receptors.
The adult mammalian brain has the capacity of reorganising its neural connections in response to lesions/modifications of the peripheral and central nervous system. We show in vivo, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), that in paraplegics the lower-limb sensorimotor cortex is invaded by the arm representation. This functional reshaping appears to be reversible. Indeed, surgical transfer of the ulnar nerve to the ipsilateral quadriceps and hip muscles allowed their contraction in a paraplegic patient. During fMRI, these voluntary movements activated the hip and thigh representation in sensorimotor cortex. We suggest that the functional recovery of the lower-limb functional maps might have been driven by the restored somatosensory inputs from the reactivated periphery. The voluntary movements of the lower-limbs are regained through the 're-awakening' of the corresponding sensorimotor cortex.
Ketamine is an N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist that induces cognitive dysfunctions. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effects of a subanesthetic dose of ketamine on human information processing, using the additive factor method. During perfusion of a subanesthetic dose of ketamine (0.5 mg/kg over 60 min) or a placebo (randomized double-blind, cross-over design), eight adults (aged 22-33, mean=27) performed a two-choice visual reaction time (RT) task. Signal intensity, stimulus-response mapping, and foreperiod duration were manipulated. The effects of these three variables were found to be additive on RT, indicating that three independent stages - namely, stimulus preprocessing, response selection and motor selection- were manipulated. Ketamine altered RT performance in a specific way: it interacted with foreperiod duration but its effect was additive with those of signal intensity and stimulus-response mapping. These results show that ketamine specifically affects the stage of motor adjustment, which suggests that the glutamatergic system plays an important role in motor processes.
Neurotensin interacts with central dopamine systems and has been suggested to exert antipsychotic drug-like actions. Antipsychotic drugs such as haloperidol induce striatal immediate-early gene expression. In order to study neurotensin's role in antipsychotic drug actions, rats were pretreated with the neurotensin antagonist SR 48692 and then injected with haloperidol. SR 48692 dose-dependently decreased haloperidol-elicited immediate-early gene expression in the dorsolateral and central striatum but not other striatal areas. SR 48692 reduced Fos expression in the striatal patch (striosome) and matrix compartments, with a significantly greater effect in the patch. These data suggest that neurotensin may play a role in the actions of haloperidol. In view of proposed functional roles of the striatal patch and matrix, we suggest that neurotensin may be important in the therapeutic rather than side effects of antipsychotic drugs.

Rats' exploratory patterns on a complex elevated maze were analyzed in both light and dark conditions. Rats were less active in the light than in the dark. In the light, they spent more time exploring the outer areas of the maze than the inner areas whereas exploration of both regions was similar in the dark. In both light and dark, rats spent more time investigating choice points (which provided multiple directions for movements) than runways that allowed only simple movements. In addition, choice points that provided more connections with other distant places were associated with more exploration. While such effects might be the result of stimulus-seeking of distant information in the light, increased exploration times in the dark presumably reflect the processing of local information associated with the maze connectivity. These results suggest that exploratory patterns in the dark reflect processing of the topological structure of the maze.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) non-B clade viral infections of the brain have not been studied to date. Among nine AIDS patients from Nairobi, Kenya, infected with HIV-1 A (N = 5) or D (N = 4) clade strains, brain-derived HIV-1 env sequences displayed greater evolutionary distance than B clade brain-derived viruses (P &lt; 0.001). Similarly, molecular diversity between matched brain and spleen env clones was clade-dependent and concentrated in the hypervariable V4 region (P &lt; 0.001), with phylogenetic clustering of sequences derived from the same organ. Brain-derived A and D clade sequences displayed significantly lower ratios of nonsynonymous/synonymous substitution rates (d(N)/d(S)) compared to matched spleen-derived clones and brain-derived B clade viruses. Interclade recombination events were infrequently observed among the present env sequences. A chimeric virus containing the C2V3 region from an A clade brain-derived sequence preferentially used CD4 and CCR5 for infection. These findings demonstrate that differences in molecular diversity in brain-derived sequences were dependent on the individual clade and domain within the env gene, but both B and non-B clade brain-derived viruses exhibit a preference for CCR5 as a coreceptor.




We have used a yeast two-hybrid approach to uncover protein interactions involving the D2-like subfamily of dopamine receptors. Using the third intracellular loop of the D2S and D3 dopamine receptors as bait to screen a human brain cDNA library, we identified filamin A (FLN-A) as a protein that interacts with both the D2 and D3 subtypes. The interaction with FLN-A was specific for the D2 and D3 receptors and was independently confirmed in pull-down and coimmunoprecipitation experiments. Deletion mapping localized the dopamine receptor-FLN-A interaction to the N-terminal segment of the D2 and D3 dopamine receptors and to repeat 19 of FLN-A. In cultures of dissociated rat striatum, FLN-A and D2 receptors colocalized throughout neuronal somata and processes as well as in astrocytes. Expression of D2 dopamine receptors in FLN-A-deficient M2 melanoma cells resulted in predominant intracellular localization of the D2 receptors, whereas in FLN-A-reconstituted cells, the D2 receptor was predominantly localized at the plasma membrane. These results suggest that FLN-A may be required for proper cell surface expression of the D2 dopamine receptors. Association of D2 and D3 dopamine receptors with FLN-A provides a mechanism whereby specific dopamine receptor subtypes may be functionally linked to downstream signaling components via the actin cytoskeleton.
Transient A-type K+ channels (I(A)) in neurons have been implicated in the delay of the spike onset and the decrease in the firing frequency. Here we have characterized biophysically and pharmacologically an I(A) current in lamprey locomotor network neurons that is activated by suprathreshold depolarization and is specifically blocked by catechol at 100 microM. The biophysical properties of this current are similar to the mammalian Kv3.4 channel. The role of the I(A) current both in single neuron firing and in locomotor pattern generation was analyzed. The I(A) current facilitates Na+ channel recovery from inactivation and thus sustains repetitive firing. The role of the I(A) current in motor pattern generation was examined by applying catechol during fictive locomotion induced by N-methyl-d-aspartate. Blockade of this current increased the locomotor burst frequency and decreased the firing of motoneurons. Although an alternating motor pattern could still be generated, the cycle duration was less regular, with ventral roots bursts failing on some cycles. Our results thus provide insights into the contribution of a high-voltage-activated I(A) current to the regulation of firing properties and motor coordination in the lamprey spinal cord.
Macrophages are stimulable cells able to increase the production of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species dramatically for a short period of time. Free radicals and other oxidants are able to oxidize the intracellular protein pool. These oxidized proteins are selectively recognized and degraded by the intracellular proteasomal system. We used the mouse macrophage-like cell line RAW264.7 to test whether macrophagial cells are able to increase their protein turnover after oxidative stress and whether this is accompanied by an increased protein oxidation. Macrophagial cells are particularly susceptible to bolus additions of hydrogen peroxide and peroxynitrite. In further experiments we activated RAW264.7 cells with PMA to test whether the production of endogenous oxidants has analogous effects. A clear dependence of the protein turnover and protein oxidation on the oxidative burst could be measured. In further experiments the role of the proteasomal system in the selective removal of oxidized proteins could be revealed exploring the proteasome specific inhibitor lactacystin. Therefore, although oxidants are able to attack the intracellular protein pool in macrophages, these cells are able to remove oxidized proteins selectively and protect the intracellular protein pool from oxidation.
The role of phospholemman (PLM) in taurine and Cl(-) efflux elicited by 30% hyposmotic solution was studied in cultured cerebellar astrocytes with reduced PLM expression by antisense oligonucleotide (AO) treatment. PLM, a substrate for protein kinases (PK) C and A, is a protein that increases an anion current in Xenopus oocytes and forms taurine-selective channels in lipid bilayers. Taurine contributes as an osmolyte to regulatory volume decrease (RVD) and is highly permeable through PLM channels in bilayers. Two antisense oligonucleotides (AO1 and AO2) effectively decreased the expression of the PLM protein by 40% and 30%, respectively, and markedly reduced [(3)H]taurine efflux by 67% and 62%. AO treatment also decreased the osmosensitive release of Cl(-), followed as (125)I. The inhibition of Cl(-) efflux (23% for AO1 and 13% for AO2) was notably lower than for [(3)H]taurine. The contribution of PKC and PKA in the function of PLM was also evaluated in astrocytes. Pharmacological activation or inhibition of PKC and PKA revealed that the osmosensitive taurine efflux is essentially PKC-independent while (125)I efflux is reduced by the PKC blockers H-7 (21%) and G6983 (41%). The PKA activator forskolin and dbcAMP increased taurine efflux by 66-70% and (125)I efflux by 21-45%. Norepinephrine increased the osmosensitive taurine efflux at about the same extent as dbcAMP and forskolin, and this was reduced by PKA blockers. These results suggest that PLM plays a role in RVD in astrocytes by predominantly influencing taurine fluxes, which are modulated by PKA but not PKC.
Previous studies have suggested that estrogen may regulate the expression of genes related to the inflammatory response within the nervous system, particularly within glia. In the present study, we examined whether injury induces estrogen sensitivity in reactive glia in the primate brain. Three adult Macaca fascicularis (cynomolgous) monkeys received unilateral fimbria fornix transections followed by chronic intracranial cannula implants through which a vehicle solution was infused intracerebroventricularly for a 4-week period. Astrocytes adjacent to areas of parenchymal disruption caused either by the lesion or by the instrumentation procedure became reactive, as evidenced by cellular hypertrophy and up-regulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunolabeling. Of note, specific estrogen receptor-alpha immunolabeling also was induced adjacent to injured regions, and this labeling strictly colocalized with GFAP immunoreactivity upon double fluorescent confocal immunolabeling. Induction of estrogen receptor immunoreactivity in reactive astrocytes occurred in all monkeys examined, whereas nonreactive glia distant from disrupted regions did not exhibit estrogen receptor labeling. Thus, expression of estrogen receptors is up-regulated in reactive astrocytes of the primate brain, potentially allowing estrogen to modulate aspects of the central nervous system's inflammatory response to injury.
Agonists of the mu-opioid receptor (MOR) produce profound hypotension and sympathoinhibition when microinjected into the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL). These effects are likely to be mediated by the inhibition of adrenergic and other presympathetic vasomotor neurons located in the RVL. The present ultrastructural studies were designed to determine whether these vasomotor neurons, or their afferents, contain MORs. RVL bulbospinal barosensitive neurons were recorded in anesthetized rats and filled individually with biotinamide by using a juxtacellular labeling method. Biotinamide was visualized by using a peroxidase method and MOR was identified by using immunogold localization of an antipeptide antibody that recognizes the cloned MOR, MOR1. The subcellular relationship of MOR1 to RVL neurons with fast- or slow-conducting spinal axons was examined by electron microscopy. Fast- and slow-conducting cells were not morphologically distinguishable. Immunogold-labeling for MOR1 was found in all RVL bulbospinal barosensitive neurons examined (9 of 9). MOR1 was present in 52% of the dendrites from both types of cells and in approximately half of these dendrites the MOR1 was at nonsynaptic plasmalemmal sites. A smaller portion of biotinamide-labeled dendrites (16%) from both types of cells were contacted by MOR1-containing axons or axon terminals. Together, these results suggest that MOR agonists can directly influence the activity of all types of RVL sympathoexcitatory neurons and that MOR agonists may also influence the activity of afferent inputs to these cells. The heterogenous distribution of MORs within individual RVL neurons indicates that the receptor is selectively targeted to specific pre- and postsynaptic sites.
Agonists of the mu-opioid receptor (MOR) have profound effects on blood pressure, heart rate, and respiration that may be mediated by C1 adrenergic neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL). C1 neurons are sympathoexcitatory and are involved in both tonic and reflex regulation of sympathetic outflow. This study was designed to determine whether C1 neurons, or their afferents, contain MOR. C1 neurons were identified by using an antibody against the epinephrine synthesizing enzyme phenylethanolamine-N-methyl transferase (PNMT), whereas MOR was localized by using an antipeptide antibody that recognizes the cloned MOR, MOR1. Combined immunoperoxidase and immunogold methods were used to examine the cellular distribution of MOR1 relative to PNMT-containing neurons in the RVL. MOR1 was found in 22% of PNMT-containing dendrites (n = 392), whereas MOR1-containing axons or axon terminals contacted 14% of PNMT-containing dendrites. This distribution was heterogenous with regard to dendritic size: PNMT-labeled dendrites containing MOR1 were usually large (60% were &gt;1.2 microm), whereas PNMT-containing dendrites that received MOR1-labeled afferents were usually small (79% were &lt;1.2 microm). Individual dendrites rarely contained MOR1 at both pre- and postsynaptic sites. Together these results suggest that MOR agonists may directly influence the activity of C1 neurons, as well as the activity of select afferents to these cells. Plasmalemmal membrane labeling for MOR1 was more frequent in smaller PNMT-containing dendrites, suggesting that postsynaptic receptors are more readily available for ligand binding in small dendrites, although the receptor was more frequently detected in larger PNMT dendrites. The selective distribution of MORs to specific pre- and postsynaptic sites suggests the receptor may be selectively trafficked to positions where it may regulate afferent activity that is heterogeneously distributed along the dendritic tree of C1 neurons.
Low-level exposure to volatile organic compounds may produce symptoms in humans reporting multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS) through altered hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis functioning. We determined whether repeated formaldehyde (Form) exposure would alter corticosterone (CORT) levels in a rat model of MCS. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given acute chamber exposures to Air or Form (0.7 or 2.4 ppm), and trunk blood was collected 20 or 60 min later. All groups showed increased CORT levels above nave basal levels at 20 min and a return to baseline by 60 min, with no differences between treatment groups. The second experiment examined the effect of repeated Form exposure (1 h/day x 5 days/week x 2 or 4 weeks) on basal CORT levels and after a final challenge. Basal CORT was increased above nave values after 2 week exposure to Air or 0.7 ppm Form. By 4 week, CORT levels in the Air group returned to nave values, but remained elevated in the 0.7 ppm Form group. There were no differences in basal CORT levels among either 2.4 ppm exposed groups. After a final Air or Form challenge, the 2 and 4 week Air and 0.7 ppm Form groups had elevated CORT levels similar to their acute response, while the 2 and 4 week 2.4 ppm Form groups had elevated CORT levels compared to their acute response, indicating enhanced reactivity of the HPA axis to subsequent Form. These findings suggest that altered HPA axis functioning occurs after repeated low-level Form exposure, and may have implications for mechanisms mediating MCS in humans.
Mechanisms responsible for anoxic/ischemic cell death in mammalian CNS grey and white matter involve an increase in intracellular Ca2+, however the routes of Ca2+ entry appear to differ. In white matter, pathological Ca2+ influx largely occurs as a result of reversal of Na+-Ca2+ exchange, due to increased intracellular Na+ and membrane depolarization. Na+ channel blockade has therefore been logically and successfully employed to protect white matter from ischemic injury. In grey matter ischemia, it has been traditionally presumed that activation of agonist (glutamate) operated and voltage dependent Ca2+ channels are the primary routes of Ca2+ entry. Less attention has been directed towards Na+-Ca2+ exchange and Na+ channel blockade as a protective strategy in grey matter. This study investigates mexiletine, a use-dependent sodium channel blocker known to provide significant ischemic neuroprotection to white matter, as a grey matter protectant. Pentobarbital (65 mg/kg) anesthetized, mechanically ventilated Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with mexiletine (80 mg/kg, i.p.). Then 25 min later the animals were subjected to 10 min of bilateral carotid occlusion plus controlled hypotension to 50 Torr by temporary partial exsanguination. Animals were sacrificed with perfusion fixation after 7 days. Ischemic and normal neurons were counted in standard H&amp;E sections of hippocampal CA1 and the ratio of ischemic to total neurons calculated. Mexiletine pre-treatment reduced hippocampal damage by approximately half when compared to control animals receiving saline alone (45 vs. 88% damage, respectively; P&lt;0.001). These results suggest that mexiletine (and perhaps other drugs of this class) can provide protection from ischemia to grey matter as well as white matter.
Eph receptors transduce short-range repulsive signals for axon guidance by modulating actin dynamics within growth cones. We report the cloning and characterization of ephexin, a novel Eph receptor-interacting protein that is a member of the Dbl family of guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) for Rho GTPases. Ephrin-A stimulation of EphA receptors modulates the activity of ephexin leading to RhoA activation, Cdc42 and Rac1 inhibition, and cell morphology changes. In addition, expression of a mutant form of ephexin in primary neurons interferes with ephrin-A-induced growth cone collapse. The association of ephexin with Eph receptors constitutes a molecular link between Eph receptors and the actin cytoskeleton and provides a novel mechanism for achieving highly localized regulation of growth cone motility.
A stochastic cell fate decision mediated by axon contact and calcium signaling causes one of the two bilaterally symmetric AWC neurons, either AWCL or AWCR, to express the candidate olfactory receptor str-2. nsy-1 mutants express str-2 in both neurons, disrupting AWC asymmetry. nsy-1 encodes a homolog of the human MAP kinase kinase kinase (MAPKKK) ASK1, an activator of JNK and p38 kinases. Based on genetic epistasis analysis, nsy-1 appears to act downstream of the CaMKII unc-43, and NSY-1 associates with UNC-43, suggesting that UNC-43/CaMKII activates the NSY-1 MAP kinase cassette. Mosaic analysis demonstrates that UNC-43 and NSY-1 act primarily in a cell-autonomous execution step that represses str-2 expression in one AWC cell, downstream of the initial lateral signaling pathway that coordinates the fates of the two cells.
We examined the effects of beta-phenylethylamine on striatal acetylcholine release in freely moving rats using in vivo microdialysis. beta-Phenylethylamine at 12.5 mg/kg, i.p. did not affect acetylcholine release in the striatum, whereas 25 and 50 mg/kg, i.p. immediately induced an increase in acetylcholine release in the striatum at 15-45 min. This increase following intraperitoneal administration of beta-phenylethylamine (25 mg/kg) was not affected by locally applied SCH-23390 (R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine, 10 microM), a dopamine D(1) receptor antagonist, nor by raclopride (10 microM), a dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist. The increased release of acetylcholine induced by beta-phenylethylamine was suppressed by local infusion of tetrodotoxin (1 microM). In contrast, the extracellular acetylcholine level in the striatum was significantly decreased by local application of beta-phenylethylamine (10 and 100 microM) in the striatum via a microdialysis probe. The decrease was completely blocked by local co-application of raclopride (10 microM). The beta-phenylethylamine-induced decrease in striatal acetylcholine release was not affected by co-perfusion with SCH-23390 (10 microM). These results indicate that systemic administration of beta-phenylethylamine increases acetylcholine release, whereas locally applied beta-phenylethylamine decreases striatal acetylcholine release in freely moving rats. Furthermore, the dopaminergic system, through the dopamine D(2) receptor, is involved in the locally applied beta-phenylethylamine-induced decrease in acetylcholine in the striatum.
To evaluate the promoter function of the 5'-flanking sequence of mouse gamma-sarcoglycan (gamma-SG) gene in vivo, we generated transgenic mice harboring this sequence fused with enhanced green fluorescent protein reporter gene. The reporter expression was restricted in striated muscles and particularly strong in all myofibers in skeletal muscles. Using these mice, we examine the spatial and temporal transcriptional patterns of the gamma-SG gene during mouse skeletal muscle development. The expression of basic helix loop helix transcriptional factors preceded that of the reporter. Differences between the expression of reporter and endogenous gamma-SG genes in non-muscle tissues suggested the existence of additional promoter elements in the endogenous gene, and the analysis of endogenous mRNAs demonstrated the existence of a novel upstream exon and promoter active in non-muscle tissues.
The transport of glucose across the mammalian blood-brain barrier is mediated by the GLUT1 glucose transporter, which is concentrated in the endothelial cells of the cerebral microvessels. Several studies supported an asymmetric distribution of GLUT1 protein between the luminal and abluminal membranes (1:4) with a significant proportion of intracellular transporters. In this study we investigated the activity and concentration of GLUT1 in isolated luminal and abluminal membrane fractions of bovine brain endothelial cells. Glucose transport activity and glucose transporter concentration, as determined by cytochalasin B binding, were 2-fold greater in the luminal than in the abluminal membranes. In contrast, Western blot analysis using a rabbit polyclonal antibody raised against the C-terminal 20 amino acids of GLUT1 indicated a 1:5 luminal:abluminal distribution. Western blot analysis with antibodies raised against either the intracellular loop of GLUT1 or the purified erythrocyte protein exhibited luminal:abluminal ratios of 1:1. A similar ratio was observed when the luminal and abluminal fractions were exposed to the 2-N-4[(3)H](1-azi-2,2,2,-trifluoroethyl)benzoxyl-1,3-bis-(d-mannos-4-yloxyl)-2-propylamine ([(3)H]ATB-BMPA) photoaffinity label. These observations suggest that either an additional glucose transporter isoform is present in the luminal membrane of the bovine blood-brain barrier or the C-terminal epitope of GLUT1 is &quot;masked&quot; in the luminal membrane but not in the abluminal membranes.
Much is known about the pathways from photoreceptors to higher visual areas in the brain. However, how we become aware of what we see or of having seen at all is a problem that has eluded neuroscience. Recordings from macaque V1 during deactivation of MT+/V5 and psychophysical studies of perceptual integration suggest that feedback from secondary visual areas to V1 is necessary for visual awareness. We used transcranial magnetic stimulation to probe the timing and function of feedback from human area MT+/V5 to V1 and found its action to be early and critical for awareness of visual motion.
Human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) can induce dementia with alarming occurrence worldwide. The mechanism remains poorly understood, but discovery in brain of HIV-1-binding sites (chemokine receptors) provides new insights. HIV-1 infects macrophages and microglia, but not neurons, although neurons are injured and die by apoptosis. The predominant pathway to neuronal injury is indirect through release of macrophage, microglial and astrocyte toxins, although direct injury by viral proteins might also contribute. These toxins overstimulate neurons, resulting in the formation of free radicals and excitotoxicity, similar to other neurodegenerative diseases. Recent advances in understanding the signalling pathways mediating these events offer hope for therapeutic intervention.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has a number of functions in mammalian physiology. Here we identify a role for NPY in promoting proliferation of postnatal neuronal precursor cells. NPY is synthesized in the postnatal olfactory epithelium by sustentacular cells, previously proposed to function only in structural support. Mice with a targeted deletion of NPY contain half as many dividing olfactory neuronal precursor cells as do controls. Furthermore, NPY-deficient mice develop significantly fewer olfactory neurons by adulthood. NPY acts on multipotent neuronal precursor or basal cells to activate rapidly and transiently the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 subgroup of mitogen-activated protein kinases. The NPY Y1 receptor subtype appears to mediate this effect. The ability of NPY to induce neuronal precursor proliferation is mediated by protein kinase C (PKC), indicating an upstream PKC-dependent activation of ERK1/2. These results indicate that NPY may regulate neuronal precursor proliferation in the adult mammal.
The members of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase family -- p44/p42 MAP kinase (ERK), c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 MAP kinase (p38) are known to be important mediators of the physiological plasticity or neurotoxicity induced in the striatum by activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors. However, our knowledge of the class of glutamate receptor and the intracellular pathways involved derives totally from studies on embryonic neurons, where the mechanisms are likely to be totally different from those operating in mature neurons. In superfused striatal slices from adult rats, NMDA and kainate, but not AMPA, were found to activate ERK. No activation of p38 or JNK was detected following treatment with any ionotropic glutamate receptor agonist. The activation of ERK by kainate was blocked by the ERK kinase (MEK) inhibitor PD98059, and the PI3 kinase inhibitor wortmannin, but not by the p38 MAP kinase inhibitor SB203580. This provides evidence for a novel pathway linking striatal kainate receptors to ERK activation via PI3 kinase and MEK.
Male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) are seasonal breeders. They show marked testicular regression when exposed to short autumnal photoperiods, and then remain sexually quiescent for several months. By mid-winter, however, they show a loss in responsiveness to the inhibitory influence of short photoperiods and their testes begin to recrudesce. To shed light on the neuroendocrine mechanism responsible for mediating these reproductive changes, we examined the influence of photoperiod on the expression of GnRH mRNA in the hamster forebrain. Adult males were either exposed to short photoperiods (6L:18D) for 16 weeks or were maintained under long photoperiods (14L:10D); additional animals were exposed to short or long photoperiods for 22 weeks. As expected, exposure to short photoperiods for 12 weeks resulted in a marked decrease (P&lt;0.01) in testicular mass and serum testosterone levels, but after 22 weeks these reproductive parameters were once again significantly elevated (P&lt;0.01). In contrast, quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry revealed no difference (P&gt;0.05) between the GnRH mRNA levels of the short-photoperiod hamsters and their aged-matched long-photoperiod controls, although an age-related decrease (P&lt;0.05) was evident in both photoperiod-treatment groups. These data emphasize that GnRH mRNA is highly expressed in hamsters even when their reproductive axis has been rendered sexually quiescent by exposure to short photoperiods, and that photoperiod-induced changes in GnRH secretion, rather than synthesis, are more likely to regulate the timing of the breeding season. On the other hand, the data indicate that GnRH mRNA levels show an aging-related decrease, regardless of photoperiod, suggesting that in the long term a decrease in GnRH gene expression may contribute to the reduced fertility of old hamsters.
In brain synapses, nitric oxide synthase activation is coupled to N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated calcium entry at postsynaptic densities through regulatory protein complexes, however a presynaptic equivalent to this signaling mechanism has not yet been identified. Novel evidence indicates that N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors may play a presynaptic role in synaptic plasticity. Thus, we investigated whether ionotropic glutamate receptor activation in isolated nerve terminals regulates neurotransmitter release, through nitric oxide formation. N-Methyl-D-aspartate dose-dependently inhibited the release of glutamate evoked by 4-aminopyridine (IC(50)=155 microM), and this effect was reversed by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphopentanoic acid and by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, L-nitroarginine, in synaptosomes isolated from whole hippocampus, CA3 and CA1 areas, but not from the dentate gyrus. In contrast, the 4-aminopyridine-evoked release of glutamate was reduced by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid or kainate by a nitric oxide-independent mechanism, since it was not blocked by L-nitroarginine, and N-methyl-D-aspartate, but not alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid or kainate, significantly increased cGMP formation. Presynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are probably involved since removing extracellular nitric oxide with the scavenger 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl 3-oxide did not block the depression of glutamate release by N-methyl-D-aspartate. The mechanism underlying this depression involves the inhibition of synaptic vesicle exocytosis since N-methyl-D-aspartate/nitric oxide inhibited the release of [3H]glutamate and [14C]GABA evoked by hypertonic sucrose. The results also suggest that presynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors may function as auto- and heteroreceptors.
The contribution of cardiovascular activity in the early central responses to systemic inflammation was assessed in rats following intravenous administration of subseptic doses of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). LPS at 12.5 microg/kg increased heart rate (HR) but did not alter mean arterial pressure (MAP), and induced interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) gene expression at 1 h in circumventricular organs (CVOs), choroid plexus, meninges, blood vessels, and pituitary gland. IL-1 beta mRNA levels were attenuated at 2 h in most regions studied. LPS at 50 microg/kg caused a biphasic change in MAP, increased HR, increased levels of arginine vasopressin heteronuclear RNA in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), and induced IL-1 beta gene expression in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) at 1 h. LPS (both doses) induced Fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI) in the area postrema, organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, NTS, preoptic area, supraoptic nucleus, and PVN at 1 h. In the PVN, neurons with FLI were found primarily in the dorsal and dorsal medial parvocellular divisions after 12.5 microg/kg of LPS whereas neurons with FLI were found throughout the PVN after 50 microg/kg of LPS. After 2 h, FLI was widespread throughout the brain. Plasma ACTH levels were elevated at 1 and 2 h in response to both doses of LPS, and levels of CRF mRNA were increased after 2 h in the parvocellular PVN. Our results reveal that central responses to increasing doses of LPS show different patterns which are related to activation of distinct immune and viscerosensory pathways, and that cardiovascular responses contribute to early neuronal activation as LPS concentrations are increased.
Nouns may refer to countable objects such as tables, or to mass entities such as rice. The mass/count distinction has been discussed in terms of both semantic and syntactic features encoded in the mental lexicon. Here we show that event-related potentials (ERPs) can reflect the processing of such lexical features, even in the absence of any feature-related violations. We demonstrate that count (vs mass) nouns elicit a frontal negativity which is independent of the N400 marker for conceptual-semantic processing, but resembles anterior negativities related to grammatical processing. This finding suggests that the brain differentiates between count and mass nouns primarily on a syntactic basis.
We examined dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) receptor-mediated influences on striatal preprotachykinin (PPT, tachykinin precursor) mRNA regulation in organotypic slice cultures. A 3 h exposure to SKF-38393 (10 microM, DA D1 agonist) or DOI (10 microM, 5-HT2 agonist) increased PPT mRNA levels to 196.4% and 154.0%, respectively. Responses to SKF-38393 were prevented by SCH-23390 (10 microM, D1 antagonist) whereas DOI-stimulated increases were prevented by ketanserin (10 microM, 5-HT2A antagonist). Since striatal tachykinin neurons also possess NMDA receptors that regulate gene expression, stimulation of PPT message levels was examined in the presence of MK-801, a non-competitive NMDA antagonist. Alone, MK-801 (10 nM) did not significantly alter basal PPT message levels. However, MK-801 prevented SKF-38393-stimulated increases in PPT mRNA expression while DOI-induced expression was not affected. These results provide evidence that D1 regulation of striatal tachykinin expression is dependent on NMDA-type glutamate neurotransmission while 5-HT2A regulation appears independent.
Patients with either left or right antero-medial-temporal lobe (MTL) resection were investigated as to their ability to reproduce and produce three durations (5, 14, or 38 s) in three conditions (silence, counting, articulatory suppression). The results showed that patients with unilateral MTL lesions did not differ from controls when they had to encode the duration of a visual stimulus in order to reproduce it. By contrast, patients with right MTL lesions underestimated all three durations, compared with controls and with patients with left MTL resection, when they had to produce durations given in chronometric units. This finding suggests that the right MTL retains long-term representations of the conventional units necessary to the accurate production of durations.
We examined whether early visual processing reflects perceptual properties of a stimulus in addition to physical features. We recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) of 13 subjects in a visual classification task. We used four different stimuli which were all composed of four identical elements. One of the stimuli constituted an illusory Kanizsa square, another was composed of the same number of collinear line segments but the elements did not form a Gestalt. In addition, a target and a control stimulus were used which were arranged differently. These stimuli allow us to differentiate the processing of colinear line elements (stimulus features) and illusory figures (perceptual properties). The visual N170 in response to the illusory figure was significantly larger as compared to the other collinear stimulus. This is taken to indicate that the visual N170 reflects cognitive processes of Gestalt perception in addition to attentional processes and physical stimulus properties.
Recently three orphan G-protein coupled receptors, RAIG1, GPRC5B and GPRC5C, with homology to members of family C (metabotropic glutamate receptor-like) have been identified. Using the protein sequences of these receptors as queries we identified overlapping expressed sequence tags which were predicted to encode an additional subtype. The full length coding regions of mouse mGprc5d and human GPRC5D were cloned and shown to contain predicted open reading frames of 300 and 345 amino acids, respectively. GPRC5D has seven putative transmembrane segments and is expressed in the cell membrane. The four human receptor subtypes, which we assign to group 5 of family C GPCRs, show 31-42% amino acid sequence identity to each other and 20-25% sequence identity to the transmembrane domains of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes 2 and 3 and other family C members. In contrast to the remaining family C members, the group 5 receptors have short amino terminal domains of some 30-50 amino acids. GPRC5D was shown to be clustered with RAIG1 on chromosome 12p13.3 and like RAIG1 and GPRC5B to consist of three exons, the first exon being the largest containing all seven transmembrane segments. GPRC5D mRNA is widely expressed in the peripheral system but all four receptors show distinct expression patterns. Interestingly, mRNA levels of all four group 5 receptors were found in medium to high levels in the kidney, pancreas and prostate and in low to medium levels in the colon and the small intestine, whereas other organs only express a subset of the genes. In an attempt to delineate the signal transduction pathway(s) of the orphan receptors, a series of chimeric receptors containing the amino terminal domain of the calcium sensing receptor or metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 1, and the seven transmembrane domain of the orphan receptors were constructed and tested in binding and functional assays.
We have studied by in situ hybridization for GAD65 mRNA in thick sections and by semiquantitative postembedding immunocytochemistry in consecutive semithin sections, the expression of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glycine in cell bodies and axosomatic puncta of the rat ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (VNLL), a prominent monaural brainstem auditory structure. The in situ hybridization and the densitometric analysis of the immunostaining suggest that the rat VNLL contains two main populations of neurons. Approximately one-third of neurons are unstained with either technique and are presumably excitatory; their cell bodies are enveloped by a large number of glycine-immunoreactive puncta. Most if not all of the remaining two-thirds colocalize GABA and glycine and are assumed to be inhibitory. These two populations show a complementary distribution within the VNLL, with inhibitory neurons located mainly ventrally and excitatory neurons dorsally. In scatterplots of gray values measured from cell bodies, the double-labeled cells appear to form a single cluster in terms of their staining intensities for the two transmitter candidates. However, this cluster may have to be further subdivided because cells with extreme GABA/glycine ratios differ from those with average ratios with respect to location or size. The VNLL seems unique among auditory structures by its large number of neurons that colocalize GABA and glycine. Although the functional significance of this colocalization remains unknown, our results suggest that the VNLL exerts convergent excitatory and inhibitory influences over the inferior colliculus, which may underlie the timing processing in the auditory midbrain.
Juan Valverde de Amusco (c. 1525-c. 1564) is considered to have been the most important Spanish anatomist of the XVI century. A follower of Vesalius, he increased and divulged knowledge of anatomy during the Renaissance and his book The history of the composition of the human body was printed in Rome in 1556. The objective of this paper is to study the neuroanatomy in this book and present unpublished biographical data and describe the main contributions of this Castilian doctor to the neurosciences, in the context of Spanish medicine during the Renaissance period. He was born in the town of Hamusco (today Amusco) in the province of Palencia, which belonged to the Crown of Castile. Juan Valverde emigrated to Italy to improve his scientific knowledge. He carried out anatomical studies using the then revolutionary method of direct observation, as opposed to the Galenic criteria of authority inherited from the Medieval period. He trained in Padua under Realdo Colombo and lived in Rome where he practiced medicine until his death, becoming deservedly famous. He did not return to Spain since in the Spanish universities of the time there was a mentality which was reactionary to modern anatomy. His works, published in Italy but in the Spanish language, give an idea of the power of the Crown of Castile in the Europe of that period. The book is profusely illustrated with the first illustrations ever published in the history of printing, drawn by Nicolas Beatrizet. The book was sold widely and was translated and reedited on many occasions, until well into the XVIII century. For the first time Valverde made precise references to the minor circulation. He was the first anatomist to describe the muscles for movement of the eye correctly and the intracranial course of the carotid arteries. In his work he made the first drawing of the stapes, described by the Valencian Luis Collado. Vesalius and Valverde contributed decisively to the beginnings of modern neuroanatomy. Thanks to them, the brain is no longer an organ unknown to science.
We have developed an off-line coupling of capillary electrophoresis (CE) to matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry(MALDI-TOF-MS) based on CE fraction collection onto prestructured MALDI sample supports. Analyte carryover and detection sensitivity were investigated using a standard peptide mixture. Low femtomole amounts were detected, and no noticeable carryover was discovered. The performance of the method was evaluated with a mixture of tryptic digests of proteins from a human fetal brain cDNA expression library. The total number of identified peptides was increased from 47 to 211 when the CE-MALDI interface was used compared to direct MALDI-MS analysis. Sequence coverage with CE-MALDI was in the 25-60% range for the different proteins, corresponding to an increase of 1.3-4.9 times relative to that obtained with MALDI-MS of the crude mixture. Fractionation of sample components also facilitated protein identification by MALDI postsource decay analysis. Our initial results suggest this CE-MALDI interface can be used for the analysis of complex peptide mixtures isolated from biological tissues.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is the most prominent circulating steroid in humans, and it is a precursor for sex-steroid synthesis in peripheral tissues, including the prostate. Recently, enzyme-mediated pre-receptor metabolism has been recognized as a key step in determining steroid action in vivo. Hydroxylation of 3beta-steroids at the 7alpha-position has been reported in rat and human prostate to be a major inhibitory pathway to sex-steroid synthesis/action. However, the molecular identity of the enzyme responsible is so far unknown. We recently described a novel cytochrome P450 enzyme, cyp7b1, strongly expressed in the hippocampus of rodent brain, which catalyses the metabolism of DHEA, pregnenolone and 25-hydroxycholesterol to 7alpha-hydroxy products. In the light of this new enzyme, we have examined its possible role in 7alpha-hydroxylation conversion in rat prostate. NADPH-dependent 7alpha-hydroxylation was confirmed for 3beta-hydroxysteroids including DHEA and androstenediol, as well as 25-hydroxycholesterol. Kinetic analysis yielded an apparent K(m) of 14+/-1 microM for 7alpha-hydroxylation of DHEA in the prostate gland, a value similar to that recorded for recombinant cyp7b1 enzyme [13.6 microM; Rose, Stapleton, Dott, Kieny, Best, Schwarz, Russell, Bjoorkheim, Seckl and Lathe (1997) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 94, 4925-4930]. The V(max) value of the prostate was 46+/-2 pmol/min per mg, and this activity was inhibited by clotrimazole, a P450-enzyme blocker. Moreover, RNA analysis (reverse-transcription PCR, Northern blotting and in situ hybridization) revealed a high expression of cyp7b1 mRNA in the rat prostate, restricted to the epithelium, suggesting that cyp7b1 catalyses oxysterol 7alpha-hydroxylation in the prostate gland.




Neural crest-derived melanocyte precursors (MPs) in avian and murine embryos emerge from the dorsal neural tube into a migration staging area (MSA). MPs subsequently migrate from the MSA on a dorsolateral pathway between the dermamyotome and the overlying epithelium. In mouse embryos, MPs express the receptor tyrosine kinase, KIT, and require its cognate ligand, Mast cell growth factor (MGF), for survival and differentiation. Prior to the onset of MP migration, MGF is expressed on the dorsolateral pathway at some distance from cells in the MSA and appears to be required for normal MP development. To learn if MGF is required solely for MP survival on this pathway, or if it also provides directional cues for migration, we uncoupled survival from chemoattractive or motogenic functions of this ligand using mice that carry a targeted mutation at the Neurofibromin (Nf1) locus and consequently lack RAS-GAP function. We show that Nf1-mutant MPs survive in the absence of MGF in vitro and in vivo and that Nf1-mutant MPs disperse normally on the lateral migration pathway in the presence of MGF. In contrast, Nf1-mutant MPs persist in the location of the MSA but are not observed on the lateral migration pathway in double-mutant mice that also lack MGF. We conclude that MGF/KIT function provides a signal required for directed migration of the MPs on the lateral pathway in vivo, independent of its function in survival. We further suggest that the MGF mediates MP migration through a signaling pathway that does not involve RAS.
Secreted peptide growth factors are critical extracellular signals that interact to promote the proliferation, differentiation, and survival of progenitor cells in developing tissues. IGF-I signaling through the IGF type I receptor provides a mitogenic signal for numerous cell types, including stem and progenitor cells. We have utilized the O-2A oligodendrocyte progenitor to study the mechanism of IGF-I mitogenic actions since these progenitors respond to IGF-I in vitro, and gene targeting studies in mice have demonstrated that IGF-I is essential for normal oligodendrocyte development in vivo. The goal of this study was to elucidate the mechanism by which IGF-I promotes the proliferation of oligodendrocyte progenitors in the context of other mitogens critical for their proliferation. Results presented here show that IGF-I significantly amplified the actions of FGF-2 and PDGF to promote DNA synthesis in O-2A progenitors. Investigation of cell cycle kinetics revealed that IGF-I had no significant effect on the rate of cell cycle progression. Instead, IGF-I promoted increased recruitment of O-2A progenitors into the S phase of the cell cycle. These studies support a role for IGF-I as a cell cycle progression factor for progenitor cells.
Ensheathing cells exclusively enfold olfactory axons. The ability of olfactory axons to reinnervate the adult mammalian olfactory bulb throughout the lifetime of an organism is believed to result from the presence of this unique glial cell in the olfactory system. This theory has been substantiated by research demonstrating the ability of transplanted ensheathing cells to promote axonal regrowth in areas of the central nervous system that are normally nonpermissive. A simple method for purifying ensheathing cells resulting in a large yield of cells is therefore invaluable for transplantation studies. We have developed such a method based on the differing rates of attachment of the various harvested cell types. The greatest percentage of cells (70.4%) that attached during the first step of the separation was determined to be fibroblasts. The remainder of the cells were classified as astrocytes (20.8%) and ensheathing cells (6.8%). The percentage of attached astrocytes (67.6%) was greatly increased during the second purification step while the percentage of fibroblasts decreased greatly (27.9%) and the percentage of ensheathing cells (5.3%) slightly decreased. In the final cultures, 93.2 % of the attached cells were ensheathing cells, while astrocytes (5.9%) and fibroblasts (1.4%) were only minor components. This simple, inexpensive method of purifying ensheathing cells will facilitate their use in central nervous system regeneration research.
Modulatory interneurons that can drive central pattern generators (CPGs) are considered as good candidates for decision-making roles in rhythmic behaviors. Although the mechanisms by which such neurons activate their target CPGs are known in detail in many systems, their role in the sensory activation of CPG-driven behaviors is poorly understood. In the feeding system of the mollusc Lymnaea, one of the best-studied rhythmical networks, intracellular stimulation of either of two types of neuron, the cerebral ventral 1a (CV1a) and the slow oscillator (SO) cells, leads to robust CPG-driven fictive feeding patterns, suggesting that they might make an important contribution to natural food-activated behavior. In this paper we investigated this contribution using a lip-CNS preparation in which feeding was elicited with a natural chemostimulant rather than intracellular stimulation. We found that despite their CPG-driving capabilities, neither CV1a nor SO were involved in the initial activation of sucrose-evoked fictive feeding, whereas a CPG interneuron, N1M, was active first in almost all preparations. Instead, the two interneurons play important and distinct roles in determining the characteristics of the rhythmic motor output; CV1a by modulating motoneuron burst duration and SO by setting the frequency of the ongoing rhythm. This is an example of a distributed system in which (1) interneurons that drive similar motor patterns when activated artificially contribute differently to the shaping of the motor output when it is evoked by the relevant sensory input, and (2) a CPG rather than a modulatory interneuron type plays the most critical role in initiation of sensory-evoked rhythmic activity.
Previous studies have shown that the functional efficacy of intrastriatal transplants of fetal dopamine (DA) neurons in the rat Parkinson model depends on their ability to establish a new functional innervation of the denervated striatum. Here we report that the survival, growth, and function of the grafted DA neurons greatly depend on the severity of the lesion of the host nigrostriatal system. Fiber outgrowth, and to a lesser extent also cell survival, were significantly reduced in animals in which part of the intrinsic DA system was left intact. Moreover, graft-induced functional recovery, as assessed in the stepping, paw-use, and apomorphine rotation tests, was obtained only in severely lesioned animals, i.e., in rats with &gt;70% DA denervation of the host striatum. Functional recovery seen in these animals in which the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion was confined to the striatum was more pronounced than that previously obtained in rats with complete lesions of the mesencephalic DA system, indicating that spared portions of the host DA system, particularly those innervating nonstriatal forebrain areas, may be necessary for the grafts to exert their optimal functional effect. These data have implications for the optimal use of fetal nigral transplants in Parkinson patients in different stages of the disease.
The inferior colliculus (IC) processes auditory information ascending from the brainstem. The response of the IC to this information and its ability to transform it is partly determined by the types of ionic currents that generate the intrinsic discharge patterns of IC neurons and their susceptibility to changes in the external environment. We have used whole-cell patch-clamp techniques on IC neurons in rat brain slices to characterize the potassium currents present and to correlate them with the firing patterns observed. Neurons in the IC can be classified into six physiologically distinct cell types. Each of these cell types has a firing pattern that is generated by a unique potassium current and set of cellular parameters. Sustained-regular cells show mainly delayed rectifier K(+) channels. Onset cells have a unique high-threshold tetraethylammonium-sensitive K(+) current. Pause-build cells have an A-current. Rebound-regular cells have calcium-dependent rebound depolarizations. Rebound-adapting cells have both an apamin-sensitive calcium-dependent K(+) current and a calcium-dependent rebound depolarization. Transient-rebound cells have a charybdotoxin-sensitive calcium-dependent K(+) current and a calcium-dependent rebound. Our data suggest that there would be similarities as well as differences among IC neurons in their responses to excitatory or inhibitory inputs. Furthermore, some cells are likely to show little or no plasticity and behave as simple relays of temporal and intensity information, whereas others are likely to transform their inputs.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN), a component of the basal ganglia motor system, sends an excitatory amino acid (EAA)-containing projection to the ventral pallidum (VP), a major limbic system output region. The VP contains both NMDA and AMPA subtypes of EAA receptors. To characterize the physiology of the subthalamic pathway to the VP, and to determine the influence of EAA receptor subtypes, in vivo intracellular recordings, and in vivo extracellular recordings combined with microiontophoresis, were made from VP neurons in anesthetized rats. Of the intracellularly recorded neurons, 86% responded to STN stimulation, and these displayed EPSPs with an onset of 8.7 msec, consistent with a monosynaptic input. The EPSPs evoked in spontaneously firing neurons were nearly twice the amplitude of those in nonfiring cells (13.1 vs 6.8 mV, respectively). As neurons were depolarized by current injection, the latency for spiking decreased from 24.2 to 14.2 msec, although EPSP latency was unaffected. Eighty-seven percent of the extracellularly recorded VP neurons responded to STN stimulation with a rapid and robust enhancement of spiking; the response onset, like the EPSP onset, equaled 8.7 msec. Firing rate was enhanced by NMDA in 94% of the STN-excited cells, and AMPA increased firing in 94% as well. The NMDA-selective antagonist AP-5 attenuated 67% of the STN-evoked excitatory responses, and the AMPA-selective antagonist CNQX attenuated 52%. Both antagonists attenuated 33% of responses, and 78% were attenuated by at least one. This evidence suggests that a great majority of VP neurons are directly influenced by STN activation and that both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors are involved. Moreover, the VP response to STN stimulation appears to be strongly dependent on the depolarization state of the neuron.
Perispinal (intrathecal) injection of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) envelope glycoprotein gp120 creates exaggerated pain states. Decreases in response thresholds to both heat stimuli (thermal hyperalgesia) and light tactile stimuli (mechanical allodynia) are rapidly induced after gp120 administration. gp120 is the portion of HIV-1 that binds to and activates microglia and astrocytes. These glial cells have been proposed to be key mediators of gp120-induced hyperalgesia and allodynia because these pain changes are blocked by drugs thought to affect glial function preferentially. The aim of the present series of studies was to determine whether gp120-induced pain changes involve proinflammatory cytokines [interleukin-1beta (IL-1) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)], substances released from activated glia. IL-1 and TNF antagonists each prevented gp120-induced pain changes. Intrathecal gp120 produced time-dependent, site-specific increases in TNF and IL-1 protein release into lumbosacral CSF; parallel cytokine increases in lumbar dorsal spinal cord were also observed. Intrathecal administration of fluorocitrate (a glial metabolic inhibitor), TNF antagonist, and IL-1 antagonist each blocked gp120-induced increases in spinal IL-1 protein. These results support the concept that activated glia in dorsal spinal cord can create exaggerated pain states via the release of proinflammatory cytokines.
The spatial structure of color cell receptive fields is controversial. Here, spots of light that selectively modulate one class of cones (L, M, or S, or loosely red, green, or blue) were flashed in and around the receptive fields of V-1 color cells to map the spatial structure of the cone inputs. The maps generated using these cone-isolating stimuli and an eye-position-corrected reverse correlation technique produced four findings. First, the receptive fields were Double-Opponent, an organization of spatial and chromatic opponency critical for color constancy and color contrast. Optimally stimulating both center and surround subregions with adjacent red and green spots excited the cells more than stimulating a single subregion. Second, red-green cells responded in a luminance-invariant way. For example, red-on-center cells were excited equally by a stimulus that increased L-cone activity (appearing bright red) and by a stimulus that decreased M-cone activity (appearing dark red). This implies that the opponency between L and M is balanced and argues that these cells are encoding a single chromatic axis. Third, most color cells responded to stimuli of all orientations and had circularly symmetric receptive fields. Some cells, however, showed a coarse orientation preference. This was reflected in the receptive fields as oriented Double-Opponent subregions. Fourth, red-green cells often responded to S-cone stimuli. Responses to M- and S-cone stimuli usually aligned, suggesting that these cells might be red-cyan. In summary, red-green (or red-cyan) cells, along with blue-yellow and black-white cells, establish three chromatic axes that are sufficient to describe all of color space.
Growing axons are often guided to their final destination by intermediate targets. In the developing spinal cord and optic nerve, specialized cells at the embryonic midline act as intermediate targets for guiding commissural axons. Here we investigate whether similar intermediate targets may play a role in guiding cortical axons in the developing brain. During the development of the corpus callosum, cortical axons from one cerebral hemisphere cross the midline to reach their targets in the opposite cortical hemisphere. We have identified two early differentiating populations of midline glial cells that may act as intermediate guideposts for callosal axons. The first differentiates directly below the corpus callosum forming a wedge shaped structure (the glial wedge) and the second differentiates directly above the corpus callosum within the indusium griseum. Axons of the corpus callosum avoid both of these populations in vivo. This finding is recapitulated in vitro in three-dimensional collagen gels. In addition, experimental manipulations in organotypic slices show that callosal axons require the presence and correct orientation of these populations to turn toward the midline. We have also identified one possible candidate for this activity because both glial populations express the chemorepellent molecule slit-2, and cortical axons express the slit-2 receptors robo-1 and robo-2. Furthermore, slit-2 repels-suppresses cortical axon growth in three-dimensional collagen gel cocultures.
Sensory information, relayed through the thalamus, arrives in the neocortex as excitatory input, but rapidly induces strong disynaptic inhibition that constrains the cortical flow of excitation both spatially and temporally. This feedforward inhibition is generated by intracortical interneurons whose precise identity and properties were not known. To characterize interneurons generating feedforward inhibition, neurons in layers IV and V of mouse somatosensory (&quot;barrel&quot;) cortex in vitro were tested in the cell-attached configuration for thalamocortically induced firing and in the whole-cell mode for synaptic responses. Identification as inhibitory or excitatory neurons was based on intrinsic firing patterns and on morphology revealed by intracellular staining. Thalamocortical stimulation evoked action potentials in approximately 60% of inhibitory interneurons but in &lt;5% of excitatory neurons. The inhibitory interneurons that fired received fivefold larger thalamocortical inputs compared with nonfiring inhibitory or excitatory neurons. Thalamocortically evoked spikes in inhibitory interneurons followed at short latency the onset of excitatory monosynaptic responses in the same cells and slightly preceded the onset of inhibitory responses in nearby neurons, indicating their involvement in disynaptic inhibition. Both nonadapting (fast-spiking) and adapting (regular-spiking) inhibitory interneurons fired on thalamocortical stimulation, as did interneurons expressing parvalbumin, calbindin, or neither calcium-binding protein. Morphological analysis revealed that some interneurons might generate feedforward inhibition within their own layer IV barrel, whereas others may convey inhibition to upper layers, within their own or in adjacent columns. We conclude that feedforward inhibition is generated by diverse classes of interneurons, possibly serving different roles in the processing of incoming sensory information.
Fever is triggered by an elevation of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) in the brain. However, the mechanism of its elevation remains unanswered. We herein cloned the rat glutathione-dependent microsomal prostaglandin E synthase (mPGES), the terminal enzyme for PGE(2) biosynthesis, and examined its induction in the rat brain after intraperitoneal injection of pyrogen lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In Northern blot analysis, mPGES mRNA was weakly expressed in the brain under the normal conditions but was markedly induced between 2 and 4 hr after the LPS injection. In situ hybridization study revealed that LPS-induced mPGES mRNA signals were mainly associated with brain blood vessels, especially vein or venular-type ones, in the whole brain area. Immunohistochemical study demonstrated that mPGES-like immunoreactivity was expressed in the perinuclear region of brain endothelial cells, which were identified as von Willebrand factor-positive cells. Furthermore, in the perinuclear region of the endothelial cells, mPGES was colocalized with cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), which is the enzyme essential for the production of the mPGES substrate PGH(2). Inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 activity resulted in suppression of both PGE(2) level in the CSF and fever (Cao et al., 1997), suggesting that the two enzymes were functionally linked and that this link is essential for fever. These results demonstrate that brain endothelial cells play an essential role in the PGE(2) production during fever by expressing COX-2 and mPGES.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating dementia of late life that is correlated with a region-specific neuronal cell loss. Despite progress in uncovering many of the factors that contribute to the etiology of the disease, the cause of the nerve cell death remains unknown. One promising theory is that the neurons degenerate because they reenter a lethal cell cycle. This theory receives support from immunocytochemical evidence for the reexpression of several cell cycle-related proteins. Direct proof for DNA replication, however, has been lacking. We report here the use of fluorescent in situ hybridization to examine the chromosomal complement of interphase neuronal nuclei in the adult human brain. We demonstrate that a significant fraction of the hippocampal pyramidal and basal forebrain neurons in AD have fully or partially replicated four separate genetic loci on three different chromosomes. Cells in unaffected regions of the AD brain or in the hippocampus of nondemented age-matched controls show no such anomalies. We conclude that the AD neurons complete a nearly full S phase, but because mitosis is not initiated, the cells remain tetraploid. Quantitative analysis indicates that the genetic imbalance persists for many months before the cells die, and we propose that this imbalance is the direct cause of the neuronal loss in Alzheimer's disease.
Glial-derived inhibitory molecules and a weak cell-body response prevent sensory axon regeneration into the spinal cord after dorsal root injury. Neurotrophic factors, particularly neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), may increase the regenerative capacity of sensory neurons after dorsal rhizotomy, allowing regeneration across the dorsal root entry zone (DREZ). Intrathecal NT-3, delivered at the time of injury, promoted an upregulation of the growth-associated protein GAP-43 primarily in large-diameter sensory profiles (which did not occur after rhizotomy alone), as well as regeneration of cholera toxin B-labeled sensory axons across the DREZ and deep into the dorsal horn. However, delaying treatment for 1 week compromised regeneration: although axons still penetrated the DREZ, growth within white matter was qualitatively and quantitatively restricted. This was not associated with an impaired cell-body response (GAP-43 upregulation was equivalent for both immediate and delayed treatments), or with astrogliosis at the DREZ, which begins almost immediately after rhizotomy, but with the delayed appearance of mature ED1-expressing phagocytes in the dorsal white matter between 1 and 2 weeks after lesion, marking the beginning of myelin breakdown. After rhizotomy with immediate NT-3 treatment, regeneration continues beyond 2 weeks, but in the dorsal gray matter rather than in the degenerating dorsal columns. The ability of NT-3 to promote regeneration across the DREZ, but not after the beginning of degeneration after delayed treatment reveals a hierarchy of inhibitory influences: the astrogliotic, but not the degenerative barrier is surmountable by NT-3 treatment.
Activity-dependent neuronal gene expression is thought to require activation of L-type calcium channels, a view based primarily on studies in which chronic potassium (K(+)) depolarization was used to mimic neuronal activity. However, N-type calcium channels are primarily inactivated during chronic depolarization, and their potential contribution to gene expression induced by physiological patterns of stimulation has not been defined. In the present study, electrical stimulation of dissociated primary sensory neurons at 5 Hz, or treatment with elevated K(+), produced a large increase in the percentage of neurons that express tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA and protein. However, blockade of L-type channels, which completely inhibited K(+)-induced expression, had no effect on TH expression induced by patterned stimulation. Conversely, blockade of N-type channels completely inhibited TH induction by patterned stimulation, whereas K(+)-induced expression was unaffected. Similar results were obtained for depolarization-induced expression of the immediate early genes Nurr1 and Nur77. In addition, TH induction by patterned stimulation was significantly reduced by inhibitors of PKA and PKC but was unaffected by inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. On the other hand, K(+)-induced TH expression was significantly reduced by inhibition of the MAPK pathway but was unaffected by inhibitors of PKA or PKC. These results demonstrate that N-type calcium channels can directly link phasic membrane depolarization to gene expression, challenging the view that activation of L-type channels is required for nuclear responses to physiological patterns of activity. Moreover, our data show that phasic and chronic depolarizing stimuli act through distinct mechanisms to induce neuronal gene expression.
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is characterized by cerebral accumulation of beta-amyloid peptides (Abeta), which are proteolytically derived from beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP). betaAPP metabolism is highly regulated via various signal transduction systems, e.g., several serine/threonine kinases and phosphatases. Several growth factors known to act via receptor tyrosine kinases also have been demonstrated to regulate sbetaAPP secretion. Among these receptors, insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 receptors are highly expressed in brain, especially in hippocampus and cortex. Emerging evidence indicates that insulin has important functions in brain regions involved in learning and memory. Here we present evidence that insulin significantly reduces intracellular accumulation of Abeta and that it does so by accelerating betaAPP/Abeta trafficking from the trans-Golgi network, a major cellular site for Abeta generation, to the plasma membrane. Furthermore, insulin increases the extracellular level of Abeta both by promoting its secretion and by inhibiting its degradation via insulin-degrading enzyme. The action of insulin on betaAPP metabolism is mediated via a receptor tyrosine kinase/mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase pathway. The results suggest cell biological and signal transduction mechanisms by which insulin modulates betaAPP and Abeta trafficking in neuronal cultures.
Regulation of extracellular excitotoxins by glial and neuronal glutamate transporters is critical to maintain synaptic terminal integrity. Factors interfering with the normal functioning of these transporters might be involved in neurodegeneration. Among them, recent studies have shown that hypoxia alters glutamate transporter function; however, it is unclear if hypoxia has an effect on the expression of glutamate transporters and which intracellular signaling pathways are involved. The C6 rat glial and GT1--7 mouse neuronal cell lines were exposed to hypoxic conditions (5% CO(2), 95% N(2)) and levels of glutamate transporter mRNA were determined by ribonuclease protection assay. After 21 hr, there was a 100% increase in levels of rat excitatory amino acid transporter 3 (EAAT3) mRNA in C6 cells and a 600% increase in levels of murine EAAT2 mRNA in GT1--7 cells. There was a similar increase in mRNA levels after hypoxia in C6 cells transfected with human EAAT2, whereas reoxygenation normalized the expression levels of glutamate transporters. Although the expression of EAATs was associated with increased immunoreactivity by Western blot, functioning of the transporters was decreased as evidenced by D-aspartate uptake. Finally, although the protein kinase C stimulator phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate enhanced EAAT2 mRNA levels after hypoxia, protein kinase C inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide I had the opposite effect. Taken together, this study suggests that the hypoxia is capable of upregulating levels of EAATs via a protein kinase C-dependent compensatory mechanism. This increased expression is not sufficient to overcome the decreased functioning of the EAATs associated with decreased ATP production and mitochondrial dysfunction.
Functional analyses of neural RNA-binding proteins have focused mainly on their roles as modulators of posttranscriptional gene regulation, e.g., alternative splicing, dendritic mRNA localization, and local translation. Here we identified a mouse homologue of human IMP3, which is known to bind to and repress the translation of igf2 leader 3 mRNA. The mouse igf2 mRNA-binding protein 3 (mIMP3) is a member of the zipcode binding protein-1 (ZBP-1) family previously reported in chick fibroblast cells. mIMP3 was expressed in undifferentiated neuroepithelial cells and some postmitotic neurons at early embryonic stages (E10.5--E12.5), and its expression level decreased after the midembryonic stage (E12.5) until birth. The expression profile of mIMP3 is very similar to that of mouse igf2 leader 3 mRNA. In vitro UV cross-linking experiments showed that mIMP3 preferentially bound to igf2 leader 3 mRNA rather than igf2 leader 4 mRNA and did not bind the zipcode region of beta-actin or c-myc mRNA. Furthermore, persistent expression of mIMP3 protein in an undifferentiated P19 cell line revealed that mIMP3 inhibited neuronal differentiation morphologically and immunohistochemically. Taken together, these observations raise the possibility that mIMP3 represses neuronal differentiation through the regulation of igf2 mRNA expression.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a biologically active inorganic molecule produced when the semiessential amino acid l-arginine is converted to l-citrulline and NO via the enzyme nitric oxide synthase (NOS). NO is known to be involved in the regulation of many physiological processes, such as control of blood flow, platelet adhesion, endocrine function, neurotransmission, neuromodulation, and inflammation, to name only a few. During neuropathological conditions, the production of NO can be either protective or toxic, dependent on the stage of the disease, the isoforms of NOS involved, and the initial pathological event. This paper reviews the properties of NO and NOS and the pathophysiology of Huntington's disease (HD). It discusses ways in which NO and NOS may interact with the protein product of HD and reviews data implicating NOS in the neuropathology of HD. This is followed by a synthesis of current information regarding how NO/NOS may contribute to HD-related pathology and identification of areas for potential future research.
1. Recordings were made from muscle spindle primary afferents from medial gastrocnemius and soleus muscles of the cat to study the modulating effects of varying gamma-motor stimulation frequency at constant muscle length. Stimulus trains had a mean frequency of 50 Hz and were sinusoidally frequency modulated at 1 Hz, with an amplitude of modulation of +/- 5 to +/- 30 Hz. 2. When dynamic gamma-axons (gamma(d)) were selected for their pure effect on bag(1) fibres, they were found to have very little modulating effect on afferent firing. 3. Static gamma-axons (gamma(s)) were tested with a random stimulus and correlation method to determine whether they acted purely on bag(2) fibres, purely on chain fibres or on both together. Pure bag(2) gamma(s)-axons had weak modulating effects with large values of phase lag. Pure chain connections were effective in modulating with very little phase lag, but their mean gain was low. Mixed bag(2) and chain axons were most effective and showed phase shifts proportional to gain. 4. The effects of muscle length changes recorded previously from locomotor movements were also tested, with and without accompanying stimulation of mixed gamma(s)-axons with pulse trains recorded from gamma(s)-axons. This gamma(s) stimulation had a powerful effect in increasing afferent discharge during muscle shortening. The difference in afferent firing between the stimulated and non-stimulated conditions accurately predicted the profile of the gamma(s) stimulation. 5. The results are discussed in relation to the ways in which the gamma-motor system may be used in natural movements.
1. Long-term facilitation is a respiratory memory expressed as an increase in motor output lasting more than an hour. This change is induced by repeated hypoxia, stimulation of carotid chemoreceptors, or electrical stimulation of the carotid sinus nerve or brainstem mid-line. The present work addressed the hypothesis that persistent changes in medullary respiratory neural networks contribute to long-term facilitation. 2. Carotid chemoreceptors were stimulated by close arterial injection of CO(2)-saturated saline solution. Phrenic nerve efferent activity and up to 30 single medullary neurones were recorded simultaneously in nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) including the dorsal respiratory group (DRG), Botzinger-ventral respiratory group (Bt-VRG), and nucleus raphe obscurus of nine adult cats, anaesthetized, injected with a neuromuscular blocking agent, vagotomized and artificially ventilated. 3. The firing rates of 87 of 105 neurones (83 %) changed following induction of long-term facilitation. Nine of eleven DRG and Bt-VRG putative premotor inspiratory neurones had increased firing rates with long-term facilitation. Fourteen of twenty-one raphe obscurus neurones with control firing rates less than 4 Hz had significant long-term increases in activity. 4. Cross-correlogram analysis suggested that there were changes in effective connectivity of neuron pairs with long-term facilitation. Joint peristimulus time histograms and pattern detection methods used with 'gravity' analysis also detected changes in short time scale correlations associated with long-term facilitation. 5. The results suggest that changes in firing rates and synchrony of VRG and DRG premotor neurones and altered effective connectivity among other functionally antecedent elements of the medullary respiratory network contribute to the expression of long-term facilitation.
The light microscopical and ultrastructural morphology of the innervation of the major cerebral arteries and pial vessels is described, including the origins of the different groups of nerve fibres and their characteristic neurotransmitter phenotype. Species and region specific variations are described and novel data regarding the parasympathetic innervation of cerebral vessels are presented. The dynamic nature, or plasticity, of cerebrovascular innervation is emphasized in describing changes affecting particular subpopulations of neurons during normal ageing and in Alzheimer's disease. The molecular controls on plasticity are discussed with particular reference to target-associated factors such as the neurotrophins and their neuronal receptors, as well as extracellular matrix related factors such as laminin. Hypotheses are presented regarding the principal extrinsic and intrinsic influences on plasticity of the cerebrovascular innervation.
Transcription-coupled repair (TCR) plays an important role in removing DNA damage from actively transcribed genes. It has been speculated that TCR is the most important mechanism for repairing DNA damage in non-dividing cells such as neurons. Therefore, abnormal TCR may contribute to the development of many age-related and neurodegenerative diseases. However, the molecular mechanism of TCR is not well understood. Oligonucleotide DNA triplex formation provides an ideal system to dissect the molecular mechanism of TCR since triplexes can be formed in a sequence-specific manner to inhibit transcription of target genes. We have recently studied the molecular mechanism of triplex-forming oligonucleotide (TFO)-mediated TCR in HeLa nuclear extracts. Using plasmid constructs we demonstrate that the level of TFO-mediated DNA repair activity is directly correlated with the level of transcription of the plasmid in HeLa nuclear extracts. TFO-mediated DNA repair activity was further linked with transcription since the presence of rNTPs in the reaction was essential for AG30-mediated DNA repair activity in HeLa nuclear extracts. The involvement of individual components, including TFIID, TFIIH, RNA polymerase II and xeroderma pigmentosum group A (XPA), in the triplex-mediated TCR process was demonstrated in HeLa nuclear extracts using immunodepletion assays. Importantly, our studies also demonstrated that XPC, a component involved in global genome DNA repair, is involved in the AG30-mediated DNA repair process. The results obtained in this study provide an important new understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in the TCR process in mammalian cells.
After more than 100 years of research, the neuropathology of schizophrenia remains unknown and this is despite the fact that both Kraepelin (1919/1971: Kraepelin, E., 1919/1971. Dementia praecox. Churchill Livingston Inc., New York) and Bleuler (1911/1950: Bleuler, E., 1911/1950. Dementia praecox or the group of schizophrenias. International Universities Press, New York), who first described 'dementia praecox' and the 'schizophrenias', were convinced that schizophrenia would ultimately be linked to an organic brain disorder. Alzheimer (1897: Alzheimer, A., 1897. Beitrage zur pathologischen anatomie der hirnrinde und zur anatomischen grundlage einiger psychosen. Monatsschrift fur Psychiarie und Neurologie. 2, 82-120) was the first to investigate the neuropathology of schizophrenia, though he went on to study more tractable brain diseases. The results of subsequent neuropathological studies were disappointing because of conflicting findings. Research interest thus waned and did not flourish again until 1976, following the pivotal computer assisted tomography (CT) finding of lateral ventricular enlargement in schizophrenia by Johnstone and colleagues. Since that time significant progress has been made in brain imaging, particularly with the advent of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), beginning with the first MRI study of schizophrenia by Smith and coworkers in 1984 (Smith, R.C., Calderon, M., Ravichandran, G.K., et al. (1984). Nuclear magnetic resonance in schizophrenia: A preliminary study. Psychiatry Res. 12, 137-147). MR in vivo imaging of the brain now confirms brain abnormalities in schizophrenia. The 193 peer reviewed MRI studies reported in the current review span the period from 1988 to August, 2000. This 12 year period has witnessed a burgeoning of MRI studies and has led to more definitive findings of brain abnormalities in schizophrenia than any other time period in the history of schizophrenia research. Such progress in defining the neuropathology of schizophrenia is largely due to advances in in vivo MRI techniques. These advances have now led to the identification of a number of brain abnormalities in schizophrenia. Some of these abnormalities confirm earlier post-mortem findings, and most are small and subtle, rather than large, thus necessitating more advanced and accurate measurement tools. These findings include ventricular enlargement (80% of studies reviewed) and third ventricle enlargement (73% of studies reviewed). There is also preferential involvement of medial temporal lobe structures (74% of studies reviewed), which include the amygdala, hippocampus, and parahippocampal gyrus, and neocortical temporal lobe regions (superior temporal gyrus) (100% of studies reviewed). When gray and white matter of superior temporal gyrus was combined, 67% of studies reported abnormalities. There was also moderate evidence for frontal lobe abnormalities (59% of studies reviewed), particularly prefrontal gray matter and orbitofrontal regions. Similarly, there was moderate evidence for parietal lobe abnormalities (60% of studies reviewed), particularly of the inferior parietal lobule which includes both supramarginal and angular gyri. Additionally, there was strong to moderate evidence for subcortical abnormalities (i.e. cavum septi pellucidi-92% of studies reviewed, basal ganglia-68% of studies reviewed, corpus callosum-63% of studies reviewed, and thalamus-42% of studies reviewed), but more equivocal evidence for cerebellar abnormalities (31% of studies reviewed). The timing of such abnormalities has not yet been determined, although many are evident when a patient first becomes symptomatic. There is, however, also evidence that a subset of brain abnormalities may change over the course of the illness. The most parsimonious explanation is that some brain abnormalities are neurodevelopmental in origin but unfold later in development, thus setting the stage for the development of the symptoms of schizophrenia. Or there may be additional factors, such as stress or neurotoxicity, that occur during adolescence or early adulthood and are necessary for the development of schizophrenia, and may be associated with neurodegenerative changes. Importantly, as several different brain regions are involved in the neuropathology of schizophrenia, new models need to be developed and tested that explain neural circuitry abnormalities effecting brain regions not necessarily structurally proximal to each other but nonetheless functionally interrelated. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
Treatment of ovariectomized female rats with estrogen for 2 days reduces alpha2-adrenoceptor binding density by 25%, increases G protein coupled receptor kinase (GRK) activity by 50% and elevates GRK 2 protein levels by 50% in the frontal cortex. These results suggest that estrogen may decrease alpha2-adrenoceptor expression in the frontal cortex of female rats by regulating GRK 2.
There is evidence of similarities and interactions between central opioid and cannabinoid system with reference to drug reinforcement and abuse. Here we demonstrate that repeated injection of heroin produces behavioral sensitization towards administration of the synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55212.2 in the rat. These effects were blocked by both the cannabinoid antagonist SR141716A and the opioid antagonist naloxone. These findings suggest that repeated exposure to heroin produces neuroadaptative changes in brain circuits that contribute to mediate the behavioral consequences of acute administration of WIN55212.2. The present results expand our knowledge on the interactions between central opioid and cannabinoid systems with respect to drug abuse.
The effects of neonatal and adult enucleation on the adult pattern of cholinergic inputs to the rat superior colliculus (SC) was analysed. In the superficial layers immunohistochemical labelling revealed that choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) was predominantly confined to single boutons which were almost continuously distributed throughout the rostrocaudal and lateromedial axes. In these layers a higher density of boutons was observed in the stratum zonale (SZ) and lower stratum griseum superficiale (SGSl) than in the upper stratum griseum superficiale (SGS(u)) and stratum opticum (SO). In intermediate collicular layers ChAT-immunostaining was mainly found in axonal profiles which were arranged in a patchy fashion. Neonatal enucleation caused a drastic increase in bouton density in the SZ, SGS(u) and SGSl. The density of boutons was particularly high in the SGS(u), giving the appearance of an almost homogeneous distribution of boutons from the collicular surface down to the upper limit of SO. Visual deafferentiation at the adult stage was followed by an increase in the bouton density exclusively in the SZ. Neonatal enucleation produced a dorsoventral enlargement of the region containing patches of ChAT staining which was slightly greater following adult deafferentiation. The results described here show that after visual deafferentiation an increase in ChAT innervation to superficial and intermediate collicular layers occurs, providing new information regarding plasticity in the visual system. In view of previous data on cholinergic function in the central nervous system, such an increase could compensate for the loss of retinal excitatory input by facilitating neuronal responses in the SC.
Homobaclofen (5-amino-3-(4-chlorophenyl) pentanoic acid) is a homologue of the classical GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen. In a recent study, the two enantiomers of this compound were tested in a GABA(B) receptor selective [3H]gamma-aminobutyric acid ([3H]GABA) binding assay using rat brain homogenate and in an assay of electrically induced contractions of guinea pig ileum. The results from the two tissues did, however, not correlate very well, and in order to further investigate these discrepancies, we have pharmacologically characterized these enantiomers on recombinant wild type and mutant rat GABA(B)1b receptors coexpressed with rat GABA(B)2 receptors. The results from this study correlate nicely with the binding data from rat brain. (R)-Homobaclofen was shown to act like (R)-baclofen albeit with 20-fold less potency, and (S)-homobaclofen was inactive on the receptor. The discrepancies between the data obtained in this study and those from the guinea pig ileum model could be ascribed to differences in amino acid sequence or receptor splicing of GABA(B) receptors between the two species. Another explanation for the observation is the possible existence of a novel yet uncloned GABA(B) receptor in guinea pig ileum.
Mammalian mitochondria are known to proliferate in response to several stimuli. Proliferation requires an increase in expression of genes encoding proteins involved in mitochondrial biogenesis, as well as in the replication and expression of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). In contrast, we report that inhibiting mitochondrial protein synthesis causes a modulation in mtDNA gene expression without the concomitant increase in proliferative markers. Further, inhibition results in the production of a previously unidentified light-strand mitochondrial RNA that spans the entire displacement loop, the function of which is currently unknown.
A large body of experimental and clinical data have documented the damaging effects of light exposure on photoreceptor cells although the identities of the biologically relevant molecular targets of photodamage are still uncertain. Several lines of evidence point to retinoids or retinoid derivatives as chromophores that can mediate light damage. We report here that ABCR, a photoreceptor-specific transporter involved in the recycling of all-trans-retinal, is unusually sensitive to photooxidation damage mediated by all-trans-retinal in vitro. Partial loss of ABCR function is responsible for Stargardt macular dystrophy, which is associated with accumulation of A2E, a diretinoid adduct within the retinal pigment epithelium. Photodamage to ABCR causes it to aggregate in SDS gels and results in the loss of retinal-stimulated ATPase activity. Peripherin/RDS and ROM-1, two structural proteins that colocalize with ABCR at the outer segment disc rim, are also significantly more susceptible to all-trans-retinal-mediated photodamage than are the major proteins from the rod outer segment. These observations imply that there may be specific protein targets of photodamage within the outer segment, and they may be especially relevant to assessing the risk of light exposure in those individuals who already have diminished ABCR activity due to mutation in one or both copies of the ABCR gene.
Adenosine modulates hippocampal synaptic plasticity, namely long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), through activation of A1 and A2A receptors. We now report a novel role for the recently described adenosine A3 receptor in the regulation of synaptic plasticity in the CA1 area of hippocampal slices. Activation of adenosine A3 receptors by (1-[2-chloro-6-[[(3-iodophenyl)methyl]amino]-9H-purin-p-yl]-1-deoxy-N-methyl-beta-D-ribofuranuronamide (Cl-IBMECA) (100 nM) increased the magnitude of theta-burst induced LTP (from 1.2+/-0.6% in the control solution to 25.5+/-0.8% in the presence of Cl-IBMECA) and attenuated LTD (from 30.0+/-5.5% decrease in the control solution to 13.6+/-6.6% decrease in the presence of Cl-IBMECA). The selective adenosine A3 receptor antagonist, MRS 1191 (5-10 microM), prevented the effects of Cl-IBMECA. These findings indicate a functional role for adenosine A3 receptors in the modulation of synaptic plasticity.


The nervous system can modulate neurotransmitter release by neurotransmitter activation of heterotrimeric GTP-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptors. We found that microinjection of G protein betagamma subunits (Gbetagamma) mimics serotonin's inhibitory effect on neurotransmission. Release of free Gbetagamma was critical for this effect because a Gbetagamma scavenger blocked serotonin's effect. Gbetagamma had no effect on fast, action potential-evoked intracellular Ca2+ release that triggered neurotransmission. Inhibition of neurotransmitter release by serotonin was still seen after blockade of all classical Gbetagamma effector pathways. Thus, Gbetagamma blocked neurotransmitter release downstream of Ca2+ entry and may directly target the exocytotic fusion machinery at the presynaptic terminal.
When an observer moves forward in the environment, the image on his or her retina expands. The rate of this expansion conveys information about the observer's speed and the time to collision. Psychophysical and physiological studies have provided abundant evidence that these expansionary motions are processed by specialized mechanisms in mammalian visual systems. It is commonly assumed that the rate of expansion is estimated from the divergence of the optic-flow field (the two-dimensional field of local translational velocities). But this rate might also be estimated from changes in the size (or scale) of image features. To determine whether human vision uses such scale-change information, we have synthesized stochastic texture stimuli in which the scale of image elements increases gradually over time, while the optic-flow pattern is random. Here we show, using these stimuli, that observers can estimate expansion rates from scale-change information alone, and that pure scale changes can produce motion after-effects. These two findings suggest that the visual system contains mechanisms that are explicitly sensitive to changes in scale.
Targeted genetic correction of mutations in cells is a potential strategy for treating human conditions that involve nonsense, missense, and transcriptional splice junction mutations. One method of targeted gene repair, single-stranded short-fragment homologous replacement (ssSFHR), has been successful in repairing the common deltaF508 3-bp microdeletion at the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) locus in 1% of airway epithelial cells in culture. This study investigates in vitro and in vivo application of a double-stranded method variant of SFHR gene repair to the mdx mouse model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). A 603-bp wild-type PCR product was used to repair the exon 23 C-to-T mdx nonsense transition at the Xp21.1 dys locus in cultured myoblasts and in tibialis anterior (TA) from male mdx mice. Multiple transfection and variation of lipofection reagent both improved in vitro SFHR efficiency, with successful conversion of mdx to wild-type nucleotide at the dys locus achieved in 15 to 20% of cultured loci and in 0.0005 to 0.1% of TA. The genetic correction of mdx myoblasts was shown to persist for up to 28 days in culture and for at least 3 weeks in TA. While a high frequency of in vitro gene repair was observed, the lipofection used here appeared to have adverse effects on subsequent cell viability and corrected cells did not express dystrophin transcript. With further improvements to in vitro and in vivo gene repair efficiencies, SFHR may find some application in DMD and other genetic neuromuscular disorders in humans.

Although neurogenesis in the embryo proceeds in a region- or lineage-specific fashion coincident with neuropeptide expression, a regulatory role for G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) remains undefined. Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) stimulates sympathetic neuroblast proliferation, whereas the peptide inhibits embryonic cortical precursor mitosis. Here, by using ectopic expression strategies, we show that the opposing mitogenic effects of PACAP are determined by expression of PACAP receptor splice isoforms and differential coupling to the phospholipase C (PLC) pathway, as opposed to differences in cellular context. In embryonic day 14 (E14) cortical precursors transfected with the hop receptor variant, but not cells transfected with the short variant, PACAP activates the PLC pathway, increasing intracellular calcium and eliciting translocation of protein kinase C. Ectopic expression of the hop variant in cortical neuroblasts transforms the antimitotic effect of PACAP into a promitogenic signal. Furthermore, PACAP promitogenic effects required PLC pathway function indicated by antagonist U-73122 studies in hop-transfected cortical cells and native sympathetic neuroblasts. These observations highlight the critical role of lineage-specific expression of GPCR variants in determining mitogenic signaling in neural precursors.


Arachidonoyldiacylglycerol (20:4-DAG) is a second messenger derived from phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate and generated by stimulation of glutamate metabotropic receptors linked to G proteins and activation of phospholipase C. 20:4-DAG signaling is terminated by its phosphorylation to phosphatidic acid, catalyzed by diacylglycerol kinase (DGK). We have cloned the murine DGKepsilon gene that showed, when expressed in COS-7 cells, selectivity for 20:4-DAG. The significance of DGKepsilon in synaptic function was investigated in mice with targeted disruption of the DGKepsilon. DGKepsilon(-/-) mice showed a higher resistance to electroconvulsive shock with shorter tonic seizures and faster recovery than DGKepsilon(+/+) mice. The phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-signaling pathway in cerebral cortex was greatly affected, leading to lower accumulation of 20:4-DAG and free 20:4. Also, long-term potentiation was attenuated in perforant path-dentate granular cell synapses. We propose that DGKepsilon contributes to modulate neuronal signaling pathways linked to synaptic activity, neuronal plasticity, and epileptogenesis.
To investigate the types of memory traces recovered by the medial temporal lobe (MTL), neural activity during veridical and illusory recognition was measured with the use of functional MRI (fMRI). Twelve healthy young adults watched a videotape segment in which two speakers alternatively presented lists of associated words, and then the subjects performed a recognition test including words presented in the study lists (True items), new words closely related to studied words (False items), and new unrelated words (New items). The main finding was a dissociation between two MTL regions: whereas the hippocampus was similarly activated for True and False items, suggesting the recovery of semantic information, the parahippocampal gyrus was more activated for True than for False items, suggesting the recovery of perceptual information. The study also yielded a dissociation between two prefrontal cortex (PFC) regions: whereas bilateral dorsolateral PFC was more activated for True and False items than for New items, possibly reflecting monitoring of retrieved information, left ventrolateral PFC was more activated for New than for True and False items, possibly reflecting semantic processing. Precuneus and lateral parietal regions were more activated for True and False than for New items. Orbitofrontal cortex and cerebellar regions were more activated for False than for True items. In conclusion, the results suggest that activity in anterior MTL regions does not distinguish True from False, whereas activity in posterior MTL regions does.
The process of background adaptation in the toad Xenopus laevis is controlled by neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SC) that inhibit the release of alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone from the neuroendocrine melanotrope cells in the pituitary gland. We have identified the structural and functional organization of different neuropeptide Y (NPY)-containing cell groups in the Xenopus SC in relation to background adaptation. A ventrolateral, a dorsomedial, and a caudal group were distinguished, differing in location as well as in number, size, and shape of their cells. They also show different degrees of NPY immunoreactivity in response to different background adaptation conditions. In situ hybridization using a Xenopus mRNA probe for the exocytosis protein DOC2 revealed that melanotrope cells of black-adapted animals have a much higher expression of DOC2-mRNA than white-adapted ones. This establishes that the degree of DOC2-mRNA expression is a good parameter to measure cellular secretory activity in Xenopus. We show that in the ventrolateral SC group, more NPY-positive neurons express DOC2-mRNA in white- than in black-adapted animals. In contrast, NPY-positive neurons in the dorsomedial group have a high secretory activity under the black-adaptation condition. We propose that in black-adapted animals, NPY-positive neurons in the ventrolateral group, known to inhibit the melanotrope cells in white-adapted animals synaptically, are inhibited by NPY-containing interneurons in the dorsmedial group. NPY-positive neurons in the caudal group have similar secretory dynamics as the dorsomedial NPY neurons, indicating that they also play a role in background adaptation, distinct from that exerted by the ventrolateral and dorsomedial group.
Most New World monkeys have an X-chromosome opsin gene polymorphism that produces a variety of different colour vision phenotypes. Howler monkeys (Alouatta), one of the four genera in the family Atelidae lack this polymorphism. Instead, they have acquired uniform trichromatic colour vision similar to that of Old World monkeys, apes and people through opsin gene duplication. In order to determine whether closely related monkeys share this arrangement, spectral sensitivity functions that allow inferences about cone pigments were measured for 56 monkeys from two other Atelid genera, spider monkeys (Ateles) and woolly monkeys (Lagothrix). Unlike howler monkeys, both spider and woolly monkeys are polymorphic for their middle- and long-wavelength cone photopigments. However, they also differ from other polymorphic New World monkeys in having two rather than three possible types of middle- and long-wavelength cone pigments. This feature directly influences the relative numbers of dichromatic and trichromatic monkeys.
A subpopulation of sensory neurons in the petrosal ganglion transmits information between peripheral chemoreceptors (glomus cells) in the carotid body and relay neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract. Expression of voltage-gated K+ channels in these neurons was characterized by immunohistochemical localization. Five members of the Kv1 family, Kv1.1, Kv1.2, Kv1.4, Kv1.5 and Kv1.6 and members of two other families, Kv2.1 and Kv4.3, were identified in over 90% of the chemoreceptor neurons. Although the presence of these channel proteins was consistent throughout the population, individual neurons showed considerable variation in K+ current profiles.
Within the brain-renin angiotensin system, it is generally assumed that angiotensin peptide fragments shorter than angiotensins II and III, including angiotensin IV (AngIV), are inactive. This belief has been challenged by the recent discovery that AngIV, and AngIV-like analogs, bind with high affinity and specificity to a putative angiotensin binding site termed AT4. In the brain these sites include the hippocampus, cerebellum, and cerebral cortex, and influence associative and spatial learning tasks. The present study investigated the effects of two AngIV analogs, Nle1-AngIV (an AT4 receptor agonist) and Nle1-Leual3-AngIV (an AT4 receptor antagonist), on long-term potentiation (LTP). Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) were recorded from the CA1 stratum radiatum following stimulation of the Schaffer collateral pathway. Activation of AT4 receptors by Nle1-AngIV enhanced synaptic transmission during low-frequency test pulses (0.1 Hz), and increased the level of tetanus-induced LTP by 63% over that measured under control conditions. Paired stimulation before and during infusion of Nle1-AngIV indicated no change in paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) as a result of AT4 receptor activation suggesting that the underlying mechanism(s) responsible for Nle1-AngIV-induced increase in synaptic transmission and LTP is likely a postsynaptic event. Further, applications of Nle1-Leual3-AngIV prior to, but not 15 or 30 min after, tetanization prevented stabilization of LTP. These results extend previous findings from behavioral data in that AT4 receptor agonists and antagonists are capable of activating, and inhibiting, learning and memory pathways in the hippocampus, and suggest that the AT4 receptor subtype is involved in synaptic plasticity.
Transmembrane B ephrins and their Eph receptors signal bidirectionally. However, neither the cell biological effects nor signal transduction mechanisms of the reverse signal are well understood. We describe a cytoplasmic protein, PDZ-RGS3, which binds B ephrins through a PDZ domain, and has a regulator of heterotrimeric G protein signaling (RGS) domain. PDZ-RGS3 can mediate signaling from the ephrin-B cytoplasmic tail. SDF-1, a chemokine with a G protein-coupled receptor, or BDNF, act as chemoattractants for cerebellar granule cells, with SDF-1 action being selectively inhibited by soluble EphB receptor. This study reveals a pathway that links reverse signaling to cellular guidance, uncovers a novel mode of control for G proteins, and demonstrates a mechanism for selective regulation of responsiveness to neuronal guidance cues.

A full pharmacological characterisation of the recently cloned human vanilloid VR1 receptor was undertaken. In whole-cell patch clamp studies, capsaicin (10 microM) elicited a slowly activating/deactivating inward current in human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells stably expressing human vanilloid VR1 receptor, which exhibited pronounced outward rectification (reversal potential -2.1+/-0.2 mV) and was abolished by capsazepine (10 microM). In FLIPR-based Ca(2+) imaging studies the rank order of potency was resiniferatoxin&gt;olvanil&gt;capsaicin&gt;anandamide, and all were full agonists. Isovelleral and scutigeral were inactive (1 nM-30 microM). The potencies of capsaicin, olvanil and resiniferatoxin, but not anandamide, were enhanced 2- to 7-fold at pH 6.4. Capsazepine, isovelleral and ruthenium red inhibited the capsaicin (100 nM)-induced Ca(2+) response (pK(B)=6.58+/-0.02, 5.33+/-0.03 and 7.64+/-0.03, respectively). In conclusion, the recombinant human vanilloid VR1 receptor stably expressed in HEK293 cells acted as a ligand-gated, Ca(2+)-permeable channel with similar agonist and antagonist pharmacology to rat vanilloid VR1 receptor, although there were some subtle differences.
Recent data suggest that omega-3 fatty acids may be effective in epilepsy, cardiovascular disorders, arthritis, and as mood stabilizers for bipolar disorder; however, the mechanism of action of these compounds is unknown. Based on earlier studies implicating omega-3 fatty acids as inhibitors of protein kinase C activity in intact cells, we hypothesized that omega-3 fatty acids may act through direct inhibition of second messenger-regulated kinases and sought to determine whether the omega-3 double bond might uniquely confer pharmacologic efficacy and potency for fatty acids of this type. In our studies we observed that omega-3 fatty acids inhibited the in vitro activities of cAMP-dependent protein kinase, protein kinase C, Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, and the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). Our results with a series of long-chain fatty acid structural homologs suggest an important role for the omega-3 double bond in conferring inhibitory efficacy. To assess whether omega-3 fatty acids were capable of inhibiting protein kinases in living neurons, we evaluated their effect on signal transduction pathways in the hippocampus. We found that omega-3 fatty acids could prevent serotonin receptor-induced MAPK activation in hippocampal slice preparations. In addition, we evaluated the effect of omega-3 fatty acids on hippocampal long-term potentiation, a form of synaptic plasticity known to be dependent on protein kinase activation. We observed that omega-3 fatty acids blocked long-term potentiation induction without inhibiting basal synaptic transmission. Overall, our results from both in vitro and live cell preparations suggest that inhibition of second messenger-regulated protein kinases is one locus of action of omega-3 fatty acids.
G-protein-coupled inwardly rectifying K(+) (GIRK; Kir3.x) channels are the primary effectors of numerous G-protein-coupled receptors. GIRK channels decrease cellular excitability by hyperpolarizing the membrane potential in cardiac cells, neurons, and secretory cells. Although direct regulation of GIRKs by the heterotrimeric G-protein subunit Gbetagamma has been extensively studied, little is known about the number of Gbetagamma binding sites per channel. Here we demonstrate that purified GIRK (Kir 3.x) tetramers can be chemically cross-linked to exogenously purified Gbetagamma subunits. The observed laddering pattern of Gbetagamma attachment to GIRK4 homotetramers was consistent with the binding of one, two, three, or four Gbetagamma molecules per channel tetramer. The fraction of channels chemically cross-linked to four Gbetagamma molecules increased with increasing Gbetagamma concentrations and approached saturation. These results suggest that GIRK tetrameric channels have four Gbetagamma binding sites. Thus, GIRK (Kir 3.x) channels, like the distantly related cyclic nucleotide-gated channels, are tetramers and exhibit a 1:1 subunit/ligand binding stoichiometry.
The synthesis rate, half-life and degradation rate constant of dopamine and serotonin transporter proteins have been determined using RTI-76, an irreversible inhibitor of ligand binding at transporters, and a model assuming that synthesis rate is zero order and degradation rate is a first order process. The half-lives of transporter recovery after inactivation with RTI-76 are approximately 2-3 days, which are similar to those for other synaptic proteins.
Caenorhabditis elegans senses at least five attractive odours with a single pair of olfactory neurons, AWC, but can distinguish among these odours in behavioural assays. The two AWC neurons are structurally and functionally similar, but the G-protein-coupled receptor STR-2 is randomly expressed in either the left or the right AWC neuron, never in both. Here we describe the isolation of a mutant, ky542, with specific defects in odour discrimination and odour chemotaxis. ky542 is an allele of nsy-1, a neuronal symmetry, or Nsy, mutant in which STR-2 is expressed in both AWC neurons. Other Nsy mutants exhibit discrimination and olfactory defects like those of nsy-1 mutants. Laser ablation of the AWC neuron that does not express STR-2 (AWCOFF) recapitulates the behavioural phenotype of Nsy mutants, whereas laser ablation of the STR-2-expressing AWC neuron (AWCON) causes different chemotaxis defects. We propose that odour discrimination can be achieved by segregating the detection of different odours into distinct olfactory neurons or into unique combinations of olfactory neurons.
The ability to discriminate between different chemical stimuli is crucial for food detection, spatial orientation and other adaptive behaviours in animals. In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, spatial orientation in gradients of soluble chemoattractants (chemotaxis) is controlled mainly by a single pair of chemosensory neurons. These two neurons, ASEL and ASER, are left-right homologues in terms of the disposition of their somata and processes, morphology of specialized sensory endings, synaptic partners and expression profile of many genes. However, recent gene-expression studies have revealed unexpected asymmetries between ASEL and ASER. ASEL expresses the putative receptor guanylyl cyclase genes gcy-6 and gcy-7, whereas ASER expresses gcy-5 (ref. 4). In addition, only ASEL expresses the homeobox gene lim-6, an orthologue of the human LMX1 subfamily of homeobox genes. Here we show, using laser ablation of neurons and whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology, that the asymmetries between ASEL and ASER extend to the functional level. ASEL is primarily sensitive to sodium, whereas ASER is primarily sensitive to chloride and potassium. Furthermore, we find that lim-6 is required for this functional asymmetry and for the ability to distinguish sodium from chloride. Thus, a homeobox gene increases the representational capacity of the nervous system by establishing asymmetric functions in a bilaterally symmetrical neuron pair.
Every neuroscientist knows that emotions are as much to do with the head as the heart, but as a number of new studies show, the heart - or rather the body - and the brain are by no means independent purveyors of feeling and emotion.
Ca(2+) regulation of neurotransmitter release is thought to require multiple Ca(2+) sensors with distinct affinities. However, no low-affinity Ca(2+) sensor has been identified at the synapse. We now show that piccolo/aczonin, a recently described active-zone protein with C-terminal C(2)A- and C(2)B-domains, constitutes a presynaptic low-affinity Ca(2+) sensor. Ca(2+) binds to piccolo by virtue of its C(2)A-domain via an unusual mechanism that involves a large conformational change. The distinct Ca(2+)-binding properties of the piccolo C(2)A- domain are mediated by an evolutionarily conserved sequence at the bottom of the C(2)A-domain, which may fold back towards the Ca(2+)-binding sites on the top. Point mutations in this bottom sequence inactivate it, transforming low-affinity Ca(2+) binding (100-200 microM in the presence of phospholipids) into high-affinity Ca(2+) binding (12-14 microM). The unusual Ca(2+)-binding mode of the piccolo C(2)A-domain reveals that C(2)-domains are mechanistically more versatile than previously envisaged. The low Ca(2+) affinity of the piccolo C(2)A-domain suggests that piccolo could function in short-term synaptic plasticity when Ca(2+) concentrations accumulate during repetitive stimulation.
The developing brain is exquisitely sensitive to gonadal steroid hormones, which permanently differentiate the neural substrate during a critical developmental period. One of the more striking sexual dimorphisms in the adult rat brain is synaptic patterning in the arcuate nucleus (ARC); females have twice the number of axospinous synapses as males (Matsumoto and Arai [1980] Brain Res. 190:238-242). Previously, we have demonstrated that a similar dimorphism in spine densities on ARC dendrites is present as early as early as postnatal day 2 (PN2) in Golgi-impregnated rat brains (Mong et al. [1999] J. Neurosci. 19:1464-1472). Males have 37% fewer dendritic spines than females. Moreover, these spine densities are sensitive to changes in the hormonal milieu such that males castrated on the day of birth have a significant increase in spine density, whereas females masculinized at birth by gonadal steroid exposure have a decreased dendritic spine density. One of the limitations of the Golgi technique is the inability to confirm the presence of synapses. The current study used quantitative electron microscopy and demonstrated that testosterone exposure dramatically reduced axospinous synapses in the ARC by PN 2. Males had 54% fewer and masculinized females had 77% fewer axospinous synapses than females (P &lt; 0.05 and P &lt; 0.01, respectively). We previously reported that gonadal steroids induce coincident changes in neuronal and astrocyte morphology in the neonatal ARC (Mong et al., 1999), and here confirm that these changes include an altered synaptic pattern that is strikingly similar to that observed in the adult (Matsumoto and Arai, 1980).
The toxin-antibody complex anti-d(beta)h-saporin (DSAP) selectively destroys d(beta)h-containing catecholamine neurons. To test the role of specific catecholamine neurons in glucoregulatory feeding and adrenal medullary secretion, we injected DSAP, unconjugated saporin (SAP), or saline bilaterally into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH) or spinal cord (T2-T4) and subsequently tested rats for 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG)-induced feeding and blood glucose responses. Injections of DSAP into the PVH abolished 2DG-induced feeding, but not hyperglycemia. 2DG-induced Fos expression was profoundly reduced or abolished in the PVH, but not in the adrenal medulla. The PVH DSAP injections caused a nearly complete loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive (TH-ir) neurons in the area of A1/C1 overlap and severe reduction of A2, C2, C3 (primarily the periventricular portion), and A6 cell groups. Spinal cord DSAP blocked 2DG-induced hyperglycemia but not feeding. 2DG-induced Fos-ir was abolished in the adrenal medulla but not in the PVH. Spinal cord DSAP caused a nearly complete loss of TH-ir in cell groups A5, A7, subcoeruleus, and retrofacial C1 and a partial destruction of C3 (primarily the ventral portion) and A6. Saline and SAP control injections did not cause deficits in 2DG-induced feeding, hyperglycemia, or Fos expression and did not damage catecholamine neurons. DSAP eliminated d(beta)h immunoreactivity but did not cause significant nonspecific damage at injection sites. The results demonstrate that hindbrain catecholamine neurons are essential components of the circuitry for glucoprivic control of feeding and adrenal medullary secretion and indicate that these responses are mediated by different subpopulations of catecholamine neurons.
Vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM)-1 plays a critical role in mediating inflammatory cell adhesion and migration. Factors regulating the expression of membrane (m)VCAM and its cleaved counterpart soluble (s)VCAM are poorly understood. We previously demonstrated that serum sVCAM levels are increased in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients treated with interferon beta 1b (IFNbeta1b), which correlated with a reduction in gadolinium enhancing lesions on magnetic resonance imaging. However, subsequent studies have shown that IFNbeta does not directly induce VCAM expression on endothelial cells. We demonstrate here that co-culture with IFNbeta-conditioned T cells induces mVCAM on human brain endothelial cells (HBEC). Further, rapid shedding of sVCAM occurs, which mirrors the response after in vivo IFNbeta treatment. The VCAM induction is mediated partially through tumor necrosis factor (TNF)alpha and can be abrogated by sTNF receptor. VCAM could also be induced on astroglioma lines using IFNbeta-conditioned T cells, which suggests the effect is not specific for HBEC. Kinetic studies demonstrated an increase in the sVCAM to mVCAM ratio over time, which may contribute to the ultimate therapeutic effect of IFNbeta in patients. These data have important implications for understanding the events occurring at the blood brain barrier in vivo, and for determining the mechanism of action of IFNbeta in MS.
It is generally considered that myoblasts are unable to prime naive T cell responses without help from professional antigen-presenting cells (APC). However, their ability to present endogenous antigens to previously primed T lymphocytes in the secondary phase of a T cell response has not been well studied. We show here that primary human myoblasts, when stimulated with IFNgamma to express class II MHC, can present an endogenous epitope, probably an acetylcholine receptor (AChR) peptide, to a CD4(+) AChR-specific T helper lymphocyte clone. Presentation leads to secretion of IFNgamma by the T cell clone and, in addition, killing of the myoblast. Our results suggest that, during the effector phase of the immune response, myoblasts could enhance the inflammatory response by presenting endogenous antigen, and thereby become targets for CD4(+) T lymphocyte-induced cytotoxicity; subsequent release of myoblast antigens could then lead to inter- and intra-molecular determinant spreading.
Numerous studies have implicated interleukin-2 (IL-2) in various brain processes, and more recently, several studies have also attributed neurobiological actions to interleukin-15 (IL-15). On lymphocytes, receptors for IL-2 and IL-15 share a common subunit, the IL-2/15 receptor-beta (IL-2/15Rbeta) that is essential for intracellular signaling. Although a short segment of IL-2/15Rbeta has been cloned (0.35 kb) from normal brain cells, attempts to isolate the full-length cDNA have been unsuccessful, suggesting the possibility that the genes expressed by brain cells and lymphocytes may differ. Using conventional and anchored PCR cloning strategies, we isolated the full-length cDNA of IL-2/15Rbeta (2038 bp) from well-perfused, normal mouse forebrain. The coding sequence and the adjacent 5' and 3' UTR sequences from brain and lymphocyte were found to be fully homologous. Although evidence of expression of IL-2/15Rbeta can be found in many brain regions using PCR, clear evidence of gene expression by in situ hybridization was detectable only in the hippocampal formation, habenula and piriform cortex. This same pattern of mRNA expression in situ was also observed for the common gamma subunit shared by IL-2 and IL-15. In the hippocampus, IL-2/15Rbeta expression was localized to neurons by high resolution in situ hybridization and evidence of IL-2 receptor protein expression was also detected by radioligand receptor binding using hippocampal homogenates. Comparison of undifferentiated and differentiated, immortalized H19-7 hippocampal neurons showed that IL-2/15Rbeta was constitutively expressed across disparate stages of hippocampal neuronal differentiation. These data indicate that IL-2/15Rbeta may serve to modulate neuronal processes in the hippocampus and associated limbic brain regions.
In patients suffering from temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) a highly variable degree of hippocampal sclerosis (HS) can be observed. For standard neuropathological evaluation after hippocampal resection, neuronal cell loss in the hippocampal subareas is assessed (Wyler score 0-4) [Wyler et al. (1992) J Epilepsy 5: 220-225]. Other marked morphological changes in the sclerotic hippocampus are gliosis and loss of mossy fibers in the hilus and mossy fiber sprouting in the supragranular layer. In this study we quantified changes in mossy fiber density using Timm's stain in resected hippocampal tissue from patients with various degrees of sclerosis. We found that tissue specimens from patients without sclerosis (W0) show almost no mossy fiber sprouting. Patients with moderate sclerosis show sprouting without fiber loss in the hilus, whereas specimens from patients with severe sclerosis show sprouting as well as fiber loss in the hilus. Thus, analysis of mossy fiber abundance in hilus and supragranular layer by the rapid and simple Timm's stain is a sensitive measure for hippocampal sclerosis. It provides a reliable rapid tool for neuropathological evaluation, even if the tissue only contains dentate gyrus due to the sectioning procedure.
It has been reported that transplacental administration of ethylnitrosourea (ENU), which is cytotoxic immediately after administration, to rat fetuses at the neurogenesis stage induces dysgenesis of the cerebral cortex, characterized by neuronal sparseness and architectural irregularity. In the present study, we examined the topographic distribution of neurons containing 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU), and those containing calbindin D-28k (CaBP) and parvalbumin (PV), most of latter two are considered to be interneurons located in particular layers of the normal cerebral cortex in rats with experimentally induced cerebral cortical dysgenesis. Pregnant Wistar albino rats were given a single transplacental administration of ENU on embryonic day 16, followed 4, 8, 16, 24, 36, or 48 h later by a single intraperitoneal injection of BrdU. The pups were killed 10 weeks after birth. In the normal cerebral cortex, BrdU-immunopositive neurons showed an inside-out pattern according to the time of BrdU injection, whereas in ENU-treated rats the topographic localization of the BrdU-immunopositive neurons was irregular and the inside-out pattern was disrupted. Although the number of CaBP- and PV-immunopositive neurons was lower in ENU-treated animals, no topographic difference was evident between the normal and the dysgenetic cerebral cortices. These findings indicate that the expression of CaBP and PV in the neurons of the rat cerebral cortex is extrinsic, and depends on the position of the neurons rather than on the time of their formation or on genetic control. This suggests the existence of re-regulation of the expression of CaBP and PV in the developing brain, which may be one of the effective mechanisms by which the cerebral cortex can maintain its normal function in spite of cytoarchitectural abnormality.
It has long been known that there is some degree of localisation of function in the human brain, as indicated by the effects of traumatic head injury. Work in the middle of the 20th century, notably the direct cortical stimulation of patients during neurosurgery, suggested that the degree and specificity of such localisation of function were far greater than had earlier been imagined. One problem with the data based on lesions and direct stimulation was that the work depended on the study of what were, by definition, damaged brains. During the second half of the 20th century, a collection of relatively non-invasive tools for assessing and localising human brain function in healthy volunteers has led to an explosion of research in what is often termed &quot;Brain Mapping&quot;. The present article reviews some of the history associated with these tools, but emphasises the current state of development with speculation about the future.
Recently, neuroimaging techniques have been applied to the study of human motion perception, complementing established techniques such as psychophysics, neurophysiology and neuropsychology. Because vision, particularly motion perception, has been studied relatively extensively, it provides an interesting case study to examine the contributions and limitations of neuroimaging to cognitive neuroscience. We suggest that in the domain of motion perception neuroimaging has: (1) revealed an extensive network of motion areas throughout the human brain, in addition to the well-studied motion complex (MT+); (2) verified and extended findings from other techniques; (3) suggested extensive top-down influences on motion perception; and (4) allowed experimenters to examine the neural correlates of awareness. We discuss these contributions, along with limitations and future directions for the neuroimaging of motion.
When human subjects suffer from a lesion to the primary visual cortex, they lose all visual percepts in the region of space that corresponds to the site of the lesion. However, they are still capable of responding to stimuli in this region when asked to 'guess' or to execute forced-choice motor commands related to these stimuli. This phenomenon, termed blindsight, is still only partly understood. Here, the possible roles of feedforward and feedback corticocortical connections in the visual brain in the understanding of blindsight are reviewed. What emerges is substantial evidence in favor of the theory that unconscious visuo-motor transformations, as in blindsight, may be executed in an entirely feedforward processing cycle, while visual awareness is critically dependent on feedback connections to the primary visual cortex.
After decades of research the notion that faces are special is still at the heart of heated debates. New techniques like brain imaging have advanced some of the arguments but empirical data from brain-damaged patients like paradoxical recognition effects have required more complex explanations aside from localisation of the face area in normal adults. In this paper we focus on configural face processes and discuss configural processes in prosopagnosics in the light of findings obtained in brain-imaging studies. In order to account for data like paradoxical face recognition effects we propose a dual route model of face recognition. The model is based on the distinction between two separate aspects of face recognition, detection and identification, considered as dynamical and interrelated. In this perspective the face detection system appears as the stronger candidate for face-specific processes. The face identification system on the other hand is part of the object recognition system but derives its specificity in part from interaction with the face-specific detection system. The fact that face detection appears intact in some patients provides us with a possible explanation for the interference of configural processes on feature-based identification.
Using a variety of experimental rodent and human models, age-related alterations in cytokine production by immune cells have been described extensively. While the precise mechanism(s) responsible for such age-related changes in cytokine responses remain unclear, it seems likely that these changes may have a significant effect on immune cell function. In an attempt to clarify such changes in aging primates, we examined cytokine production by white cells derived from a controlled colony of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). Non-fractionated whole blood and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were obtained from male monkeys of different ages (6-28 years), and were subsequently evaluated for their ability to express mRNA and protein for the cytokines, IL-10, IL-6, IFNgamma, IL-1beta, and TNFalpha, following in vitro stimulation with polyclonal mitogens. Our results suggest that white blood cells derived from aged rhesus monkeys exhibit a significant increase in their ability to produce the Th2-associated cytokine, IL-10, upon stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) when compared to white cells derived from younger counterparts. Similarly, a significant age-related decrease in the expression of the Th1-associated cytokine, IFNgamma, was also observed using phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated PBMCs. No significant age-related differences in the production of IL-1beta or TNFalpha were observed in response to any stimulation, but there was limited evidence of an age-related increase in IL-6 production. Overall, our results suggest that a possible systemic change from a Th0/Th1 to a Th2-like cytokine profile occurs in circulating leukocytes derived from aging primates. We believe that such age-related alterations in cytokine production may play a role in the reduced immune responses observed in elderly human populations.


In mammalian cells, mitochondria provide energy from aerobic metabolism. They play an important regulatory role in apoptosis, produce and detoxify free radicals, and serve as a cellular calcium buffer. Neurodegenerative disorders involving mitochondria can be divided into those caused by oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) abnormalities either due to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) abnormalities, e.g., chronic external ophthalmoplegia, or due to nuclear mutations of OXPHOS proteins, e.g., complex I and II associated with Leigh syndrome. There are diseases caused by nuclear genes encoding non-OXPHOS mitochondrial proteins, such as frataxin in Friedreich ataxia (which is likely to play an important role in mitochondrial-cytosolic iron cycling), paraplegin (possibly a mitochondrial ATP-dependent zinc metalloprotease of the AAA-ATPases in hereditary spastic paraparesis), and possibly Wilson disease protein (an abnormal copper transporting ATP-dependent P-type ATPase associated with Wilson disease). Huntingon disease is an example of diseases with OXPHOS defects associated with mutations of nuclear genes encoding non-mitochondrial proteins such as huntingtin. There are also disorders with evidence of mitochondrial involvement that cannot as yet be assigned. These include Parkinson disease (where a complex I defect is described and free radicals are generated from dopamine metabolism), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Alzheimer disease, where there is evidence to suggest mitochondrial involvement perhaps secondary to other abnormalities.
Regulation of Na-K-ATPase by cAMP-dependent protein kinase occurs in a variety of tissues. Phosphorylation of the enzyme's catalytic subunit at a classical phosphorylation consensus motif has been observed with purified enzyme. Demonstration of phosphorylation at the same site in normal living cells or tissues has been more difficult, however, making it uncertain that the Na-K-ATPase is a direct physiological substrate of the kinase. Recently, the structure of the homologous sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca-ATPase (SERCA1a) has been determined at 2.6 A resolution (Toyoshima C, Nakasako M, Nomura H, and Ogawa H. Nature 405: 647-655, 2000.), and the Na-K- ATPase should have the same fold. Here, the Na-K-ATPase sequence has been aligned with the Ca-ATPase structure to examine the predicted disposition of the phosphorylation site. The location is close to the membrane and partially buried by adjacent loops, and the site is unlikely to be accessible to the kinase in this conformation. Conditions that may expose the site or further bury it are discussed to highlight the issues facing future research on regulation of Na-K-ATPase by cAMP-dependent pathways.
In lactating rats, ANG II receptor binding in the arcuate nucleus (ARH) and median eminence is decreased. To further evaluate brain angiotensinergic activity during lactation, we assessed angiotensinogen (AON) mRNA by in situ hybridization in forebrains of day 10 or 11 postpartum lactating and diestrous rats. AON mRNA was abundantly expressed in the ARH, preoptic, suprachiasmatic, supraoptic, paraventricular, and dorsomedial hypothalamic nuclei, and other regions, similar to that reported in male rat brains. AON mRNA levels were decreased 27% in the midcaudal ARH of lactating rats but did not differ between lactating or diestrous rats in any of the other brain areas examined. Immunofluorescence for AON and glial fibrillary acidic protein or tyrosine hydroxylase confirmed that the AON immunoreactivity in the ARH was limited to astrocytes. Confocal microscopy revealed close appositions of AON-positive astrocytes to dopaminergic neurons in the ARH. The decrease in AON mRNA in the midcaudal ARH during lactation coupled with decreased ARH ANG II receptor binding suggests that lactating rats are less subject to ANG II-mediated inhibition of prolactin secretion.
Central injections of neuropeptide Y (NPY) increase food intake in Syrian hamsters; however, the effect of NPY on sexual behavior in hamsters is not known nor are the receptor subtypes involved in feeding and sexual behaviors. We demonstrate that NPY inhibits lordosis duration in a dose-related fashion after lateral ventricular injection in ovariectomized, steroid-primed Syrian hamsters. Under the same conditions, we compared the effect of two receptor-differentiating agonists derived from peptide YY (PYY), PYY-(3-36) and [Leu(31),Pro(34)]PYY, on lordosis duration and food intake. PYY-(3-36) produced a 91% reduction in lordosis duration at 0.24 nmol. [Leu(31),Pro(34)]PYY was less potent, producing a reduction in lordosis duration (66%) only at 2.4 nmol. These results suggest NPY effects on estrous behavior are principally mediated by Y2 receptors. PYY-(3-36) and [Leu(31),Pro(34)]PYY stimulated comparable dose-related increases in total food intake (2 h), suggesting Y5 receptors are involved in feeding. The significance of different NPY receptor subtypes controlling estrous and feeding behavior is highlighted by results on expression of Fos immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) elicited by either PYY-(3-36) or [Leu(31),Pro(34)]PYY at a dose of each that differentiated between the two behaviors. Some differences were seen in the distribution of Fos-IR produced by the two peptides. Overall, however, the patterns of expression were similar. Our behavioral and anatomic results suggest that NPY-containing pathways controlling estrous and feeding behavior innervate similar nuclei, with the divergence in pathways controlling the separate behaviors characterized by linkage to different NPY receptor subtypes.
The primary purpose of the study was to test the hypothesis that reduced leptin signaling is necessary to elicit the cardiovascular and metabolic responses to fasting. Lean (Fa/?; normal leptin receptor; n = 7) and obese (fa/fa; mutated leptin receptor; n = 8) Zucker rats were instrumented with telemetry transmitters and housed in metabolic chambers at 23 degrees C (12:12-h light-dark cycle) for continuous (24 h) measurement of metabolic and cardiovascular variables. Before fasting, mean arterial pressure (MAP) was higher (MAP: obese = 103 +/- 3; lean = 94 +/- 1 mmHg), whereas oxygen consumption (VO(2): obese = 16.5 +/- 0.3; lean = 18.6 +/- 0.2 ml. min(-1). kg(-0.75)) was lower in obese Zucker rats compared with their lean controls. Two days of fasting had no effect on MAP in either lean or obese Zucker rats, whereas VO(2) (obese = -3.1 +/- 0.3; lean = -2.9 +/- 0.1 ml. min(-1). kg(-0.75)) and heart rate (HR: obese = -56 +/- 4; lean = -42 +/- 4 beats/min) were decreased markedly in both groups. Fasting increased HR variability both in lean (+1.8 +/- 0.4 ms) and obese (+2.6 +/- 0.3 ms) Zucker rats. After a 6-day period of ad libitum refeeding, when all parameters had returned to near baseline levels, the cardiovascular and metabolic responses to 2 days of thermoneutrality (ambient temperature 29 degrees C) were determined. Thermoneutrality reduced VO(2) (obese = -2.4 +/- 0.2; lean = -3.3 +/- 0.2 ml. min(-1). kg(-0.75)), HR (obese = -46 +/- 5; lean = -55 +/- 4 beats/min), and MAP (obese = -13 +/- 6; lean = -10 +/- 1 mmHg) similarly in lean and obese Zucker rats. The results indicate that the cardiovascular and metabolic responses to fasting and thermoneutrality are conserved in Zucker rats and suggest that intact leptin signaling may not be requisite for the metabolic and cardiovascular responses to reduced energy intake.
It has been suggested that proinflammatory cytokines communicate to the brain via a neural pathway involving activation of vagal afferents by interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), in addition to blood-borne routes. In support, subdiaphragmatic vagotomy blocks IL-1beta-induced, brain-mediated responses such as fever. However, vagotomy has also been reported to be ineffective. Neural signaling would be expected to be especially important at low doses of cytokine, when local actions could occur, but only very small quantities of cytokine would become systemic. Here, we examined core body temperature after intraperitoneal injections of three doses of recombinat human IL-1beta (rh-IL-1beta). Subdiaphragmatic vagotomy completely blocked the fever produced by 0.1 microg/kg, only partially blocked the fever produced by 0.5 microg/kg, and had no effect at all on the fever that followed 1.0 microg/kg rh-IL-1beta. Blood levels of rh-IL-1beta did not become greater than normal basal levels of endogenous rat IL-beta until the 0.5-microg/kg dose nor was IL-1beta induced in the pituitary until this dose. These results suggest that low doses of intraperitoneal IL-1beta induce fever via a vagal route and that dose may account for some of the discrepancies in the literature.
This re-survey of neurosurgical centres was conducted to determine whether the publication of management guidelines has resulted in changes in the intensive care management of severely head-injured patients (defined as Glasgow Coma Score &lt; 9) in the UK and Ireland. Results were compared with data collected from a similar survey conducted 2 years earlier. Almost 75% of centres monitor intracranial pressure in the majority of patients and 80% now set a target cerebral perfusion pressure of &gt; 70 mmHg. The use of prolonged hyperventilation (&gt; 12 h) is declining and the target PaCO2 is now most commonly &gt; 4 kPa. More centres maintain core temperature &lt; 36.5 degrees C. Although wide variations in the management of severely head-injured patients still exist, we found evidence of practice changing to comply with published guidelines.
Unipolar brush cells are a distinct class of excitatory interneurons situated in the granular layer of the cerebellar cortex, where they form giant synapses with individual mossy fiber terminals. We have previously shown that primary cerebellar cell cultures from embryonic and postnatal rodents contain neurons displaying morphological and chemical phenotypes characteristic of unipolar brush cells in situ, including intense staining with calretinin antiserum. In cultures from both embryonic and postnatal rats, the large majority of calretinin-positive neurons are unipolar brush cells, while granule cells are usually calretinin-negative. A small percentage of putative Golgi/Lugaro cells also express calretinin. We demonstrate here that the developmental stage of the source tissue, the concentration of potassium in the medium, and treatment with glutamate after differentiation have substantial effects on the density of putative unipolar brush cells in the cultures. In dissociated cultures obtained from embryos at gestation day E18 and E20 and from pups at postnatal day P0, P2, P5, P8, and P10 grown in 25 mM KCl, the percentage calretinin-positive cells progressively decreases from 24% to 0.1% of total cells. In cultures from E20 embryos grown in physiological potassium (5 mM KCl), calretinin-positive cells are enriched to approximately 60% of total cells, while the majority of calretinin-negative cells die. In embryonic cultures exposed to high concentrations of glutamate after 12 days in vitro, calretinin-positive neurons have a survival advantage over calretinin-negative cells and represent up to 83% of total cells.
Magnetic resonance (MR; synonymous with NMR = nuclear magnetic resonance) is a universal physical technique best known for non-invasive detection and anatomical mapping of water protons (H). MR-spectroscopy (MRS) records protons from tissue chemicals other than water, intrinsic phosphorus containing metabolites, sodium, potassium, carbon, nitrogen, and fluorine. MRS is therefore an imaging technique with the potential to record human and animal biochemistry in vivo. As a result of wide availability of MRI equipment in research laboratories and hospitals, MRS is a serious competitor with PET to define normal body composition and its perturbation by pharmacological and pathological events. This article describes practical aspects of in vivo MRS with particular emphasis on the brain, where novel metabolites have been described. A survey of these new aspects of neurochemistry emphasize their practical utility as neuronal and axonal markers, measures of energy status, membrane constituents, and osmolytes, as well as some xenobiotics, such as alcohol. The concept of multinuclear in vivo MRS is illustrated by diagnosis and therapeutic monitoring of several human brain disorders. Although these methods are currently most frequently encountered in human studies, as well as with transgenic and knockout mouse models, MRS adds a new dimension to anatomic and histopathologic descriptions.
Magnetic resonance imaging offers a means of observing the internal structure of the brain where traditional procedures of embedding, sectioning, staining, mounting, and microscopic examination of thousands of sections are not practical. Furthermore, internal structures can be analyzed in their precise quantitative spatial interrelationships, which is difficult to accomplish after the spatial distortions often accompanying histological processing. For these reasons, magnetic resonance imaging makes specimens that were traditionally difficult to analyze, more accessible. In the present study, images of the brain of a white whale (Beluga) Delphinapterus leucas were scanned in the coronal plane at 119 antero-posterior levels. From these scans, a computer-generated three-dimensional model was constructed using the programs VoxelView and VoxelMath (Vital Images, Inc.). This model, wherein details of internal and external morphology are represented in three-dimensional space, was then resectioned in orthogonal planes to produce corresponding series of &quot;virtual&quot; sections in the horizontal and sagittal planes. Sections in all three planes display the sizes and positions of such structures as the corpus callosum, internal capsule, cerebral peduncles, cerebral ventricles, certain thalamic nuclear groups, caudate nucleus, ventral striatum, pontine nuclei, cerebellar cortex and white matter, and all cerebral cortical sulci and gyri.
In a long-term longitudinal study of aging in rhesus monkeys, a primary objective has been to determine the effects of aging and caloric restriction (CR) on behavioral and neural parameters. Through the use of automated devices, locomotor activity can be monitored in the home cages of the monkeys. Studies completed thus far indicate a clear age-related decline in activity consistent with such observations in many other species, including humans. However, no consistent effects of CR on activity have been observed. Selected groups of monkeys have also been involved in brain imaging studies, using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET). MRI studies completed thus far reveal a clear age-related decline in the volumes of the basal ganglia, the putamen, and the caudate nucleus, with no change in total brain volume. PET analysis has revealed an age-related decline in the binding potential of dopamine D2 receptors in the same brain regions. These results are consistent with findings in humans. Although additional longitudinal analysis is needed to confirm the present results, it would appear that locomotor activity, volume of the basal ganglia, as well as dopamine D2 receptor binding potential provide reliable, noninvasive biomarkers of aging in rhesus monkeys.
Dietary caloric restriction (CR) is the only intervention conclusively and reproducibly shown to slow aging and maintain health and vitality in mammals. Although this paradigm has been known for over 60 years, its precise biological mechanisms and applicability to humans remain unknown. We began addressing the latter question in 1987 with the first controlled study of CR in primates (rhesus and squirrel monkeys, which are evolutionarily much closer to humans than the rodents most frequently employed in CR studies). To date, our results strongly suggest that the same beneficial &quot;antiaging&quot; and/or &quot;antidisease&quot; effects observed in CR rodents also occur in primates. These include lower plasma insulin levels and greater sensitivity; lower body temperatures; reduced cholesterol, triglycerides, blood pressure, and arterial stiffness; elevated HDL; and slower age-related decline in circulating levels of DHEAS. Collectively, these biomarkers suggest that CR primates will be less likely to incur diabetes, cardiovascular problems, and other age-related diseases and may in fact be aging more slowly than fully fed counterparts. Despite these very encouraging results, it is unlikely that most humans would be willing to maintain a 30% reduced diet for the bulk of their adult life span, even if it meant more healthy years. For this reason, we have begun to explore CR mimetics, agents that might elicit the same beneficial effects as CR, without the necessity of dieting. Our initial studies have focused on 2-deoxyglucose (2DG), a sugar analogue with a limited metabolism that actually reduces glucose/energy flux without decreasing food intake in rats. In a six-month pilot study, 2DG lowered plasma insulin and body temperature in a manner analagous to that of CR. Thus, metabolic effects that mediate the CR mechanism can be attained pharmacologically. Doses were titrated to eliminate toxicity; a long-term longevity study is now under way. In addition, data from other laboratories suggest that at least some of the same physiological/metabolic end points that are associated with the beneficial effects of underfeeding may be obtained from other potential CR mimetic agents, some naturally occurring in food products. Much work remains to be done, but taken together, our successful results with CR in primates and 2DG administration to rats suggest that it may indeed be possible to obtain the health- and longevity-promoting effects of the former intervention without actually decreasing food intake.
Caloric restriction (CR) remains the only nongenetic intervention that reproducibly extends mean and maximal life span in short-lived mammalian species. This nutritional intervention also delays the onset, or slows the progression, of many age-related disease processes. The diverse effects of CR have been demonstrated many hundreds of times in laboratory rodents and other short-lived species, such as rotifers, water fleas, fish, spiders, and hamsters. Until recently, the effects of CR in longer-lived species, more closely related to humans, remained unknown. Long-term studies of aging in nonhuman primates undergoing CR have been underway at the National Institute on Aging (NIA) and the University of Wisconsin-Madison (UW) for over a decade. A number of reports from the NIA and UW colonies have shown that monkeys on CR exhibit nearly identical physiological responses as reported in laboratory rodents. Studies of various markers related to age-related diseases suggest that CR will prevent or delay the onset of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and perhaps cancer, and preliminary data indicate that mortality due to these and other age-associated diseases may also be reduced in monkeys on CR, compared to controls. Conclusive evidence showing that CR extends life span in primates is not presently available; however, the emerging data from the ongoing primate studies strengthens the possibility that the diverse beneficial effects of CR on aging in rodents will also apply to nonhuman primates and perhaps ultimately to humans.
Bipolar disorder is associated with increased mortality because of complications of commonly comorbid substance use and stress-sensitive medical disorders as well as accidents and very high rates of suicide. Long-term lithium treatment may be associated with reduced suicidal risk. We review and summarize findings that help to quantify relationships between the presence versus the absence of lithium maintenance and suicides or attempts in patients with bipolar or other major affective disorders. Results from 33 studies (1970-2000) yielded 13-fold lower rates of suicide and reported attempts during long-term lithium treatment than without it or after it was discontinued. Although greatly reduced, these rates remain above those estimated for the general population. Evidence for substantial, if incomplete, protection against suicide with lithium is supported by more compelling evidence than that for any other treatment provided for patients with mood disorders. Studies of commonly used, but incompletely evaluated, alternative treatments are required, and further protection against premature mortality can be anticipated with better protection against bipolar depression.
Consciousness is often seen as requiring a special kind of explanation. But the various aspects of self-awareness can presumably emerge when certain levels of complexity are reached in an organism: it is not necessary to assume additional mechanisms or hidden causes. Looking at the most fundamental level, that of elementary particle physics, three principles appear--the conformability of nature to herself, the applicability of the criterion of simplicity, and the utility of certain parts of mathematics in describing physical reality--which are in themselves emergent properties of the fundamental laws of physics. At successive levels, it is the availability of similar mathematical descriptions from related problems that makes the next step appear with simplicity and elegance. Thus, once the concept of emergence is properly established, a huge burden is lifted from the inquiring mind. The whole explanatory loop may be closed by looking at the ability of the human mind to figure out the laws of nature. All the other sciences emerge in principle from fundamental physics plus historical accidents, even though &quot;reduction&quot; is obviously inadequate as a strategy. While bridges or staircases are under construction connecting the various sciences, each science needs to be studied at its own level as well. Although the idea of &quot;vital forces&quot; in biology alien to physics and chemistry has largely disappeared, consciousness remains the last refuge of obscurantists. Finally, it is argued that appeals to the alleged weirdness of quantum mechanics are based on a misunderstanding and are unlikely to have any place in a discussion of consciousness.
After a brief introduction, a series of Cajal's own thoughts and recollections of his difficult childhood and adolescence are literally transcribed. They clearly represent the astonishing achievements of an equally astonishing child who was born in a tiny village of the Pyrenees mountains. Even today, visitors find it very difficult to understand how it was possible for a child to free himself from a medieval atmosphere and climb to the highest scientific level: to be awarded with the Nobel Prize in Medicine.
The goal of this paper is to explore the basic assumption that largescale, temporal coincidence of specific and nonspecific thalamic activity generates the functional states that characterize human cognition.
The discovery of chemical synaptic transmission together with the asymmetric distribution of neurotransmitter release sites and receptors offer an explanation for Cajal's theory on dynamic polarization.
This chapter summarizes a theory of consciousness based on brain structure and dynamics. The theory centers around the notion of reentry--on-going recursive signaling across multiple reciprocally connected brain regions present mainly in the thalamocortical system. It recognized the fundamental beginnings provided by the complementary efforts of Ramn y Cajal and William James.
One hundred years after Santiago Ramon y Cajal provided critical evidence for the &quot;neuron doctrine,&quot; his cellular view of the brain remains the basis of modern neural science. This article begins with a review of how the early work of Ramon y Cajal, Charles Sherrington, and John Eccles and their contemporaries laid the groundwork for our current understanding of he information processing of neural systems and for understanding the task faced by studies of how the brain develops. The visual system is examined in some detail as a model for experimental investigation into the structure, operational mechanisms, and functions of large neural systems. Discussion of the phenomena of visual awareness and consciousness, links between the visual system and other brain systems, and disorders that disrupt voluntary control of cognition and emotion lead to a broader consideration of the problem of consciousness.
One hundred years after Santiago Ramn Cajal established the bases of modern neuroscience in his masterpiece Textura del sistema nervioso del hombre y de los vertebrados, the question is stated again: What is the status of consciousness today? The responses in this book, by contemporary leading figures of neuroscience, evolution, molecular biology, computer science, and quantum physics, collectively compose a fascinating conceptual landscape. Both the evolutionary emergence of consciousness and its development towards the highest level may be analyzed by a wealth of new theories and hypotheses, including Cajal's prescient ones. Some noticeable gaps remain, however. Celebrating the centennial of Textura is a timely occasion to reassess how close--and how far--our system of the sciences is to explaining consciousness.
Neurological complications are common in sickle cell disease (SCD). However, it is often difficult to relate the clinical presentation to conventional neuroimaging, because subclinical infarction is common and stroke has been described in the absence of large-vessel disease. We studied 48 patients with SCD aged 4-34 (median 13) years with T2-weighted, diffusion and perfusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and with MR angiography. Forty-four underwent transcranial Doppler (TCD). Abnormalities on perfusion imaging were seen in 25 cases, 24 of whom had been symptomatic. The remaining patient had evidence of executive dysfunction and reduced perfusion in the frontal lobes. The perfusion abnormality was larger than the area of infarction in 9 patients and was seen in an arterial distribution with no infarction in a further 9. In 3 patients with transient ischemic attacks, perfusion abnormalities were demonstrated in the absence of any other neuroimaging abnormalities, and perfusion changes were seen in 3 others despite normal MR angiography and TCD. Perfusion abnormalities are associated with neurological symptoms in patients with SCD, whether or not MRI, MR angiography, and TCD are abnormal. It is likely that this technique will guide management in individual patients.

Recent work indicates that the orexin/hypocretin-containing neurons of the lateral hypothalamus are involved in control of REM sleep phenomena, but site-specific actions in control of wakefulness have been less studied. Orexin-containing neurons project to both brainstem and forebrain regions that are known to regulate sleep and wakefulness, including the field of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain (BF) that is implicated in regulation of wakefulness, and includes, in the rat, the horizontal limb of the diagonal band, the substantia innominata, and the magnocellular preoptic region. The present study used microdialysis perfusion of orexin-A directly in the cholinergic BF region of rat to test the hypothesis that orexin-A enhances W via a local action in the BF. A significant dose-dependent increase in W was produced by the perfusion of three doses of orexin-A in the BF (0.1, 1.0, and 10.0 microM), with 10.0 microM producing more than a 5-fold increase in wakefulness, which occupied 44% of the light (inactive) phase recording period. Orexin-A perfusion also produced a significant dose-dependent decrease in nonREM sleep, and a trend-level decrease in REM sleep. The results clearly demonstrate a potent capacity of orexin-A to induce wakefulness via a local action in the BF, and are consistent with previous work indicating that the BF cholinergic zone neurons have a critical role in the regulation of EEG activation and W. The data suggest further that orexin-A has a significant role in the regulation of arousal/wakefulness, in addition to the previously described role of orexin in the regulation and expression of REM sleep and REM sleep-related phenomena.
A role for sleep in memory processes and neural plasticity has been suggested many times and in many different forms. However, we are far from a consensus on what this role might be and why it would be fulfilled preferentially by sleep. In this review, we distinguish between memory acquisition, consolidation, and maintenance, and we consider how sleep may specifically contribute to each of these phases. We also distinguish between declarative and nondeclarative memories and their relationships to different stages of sleep. Finally, we discuss whether different molecular and cellular aspects of neural plasticity may be associated preferentially with different behavioral states. A consideration of such molecular aspects could lead to more conclusive experiments concerning the relationship between sleep and plasticity.

Contradictory results are found in the literature concerning the role of vision in the perception of space or in spatial navigation, in part because of the lack of murine models of total blindness used so far. The authors evaluated the spatial abilities of anophthalmic transgenic mice. These mice did not differ qualitatively from their wild-type littermates in general locomotor activity, spontaneous alternation, object exploration, or anxiety, but their level of exploratory activity was generally lower. In the spatial version of the water maze, they displayed persistent thigmotaxic behavior and showed severe spatial learning impairments. However, their performances improved with training, suggesting that they may have acquired a rough representation of the platform position. These results suggest that modalities other than vision enable some degree of spatial processing in proximal and structured spaces but that vision is critical for accurate spatial navigation.
The effects of several stressors were assessed in inbred strains of mice, BALB/cByJ and C57BL/6ByJ, thought to be differentially reactive to stressors. Behavioral reactivity was greater in BALB/cByJ mice with respect to open-field emergence, step-down responding, response to a predator (rat) or to fox urine odor. Neurogenic insults (e.g., footshock, forced swim, restraint) and a systemic stressor (intraperitoneal interleukin-1beta treatment) likewise provoked a greater rise of plasma corticosterone in the BALB/cByJ mice. Psychogenic stressors (e.g., novel open-field exposure, acoustic startle stimuli) also enhanced plasma corticosterone to a greater extent in BALB/cByJ mice, but such an outcome was not apparent following predator-related cues. It appears that whereas stressor reactivity and adrenal glucocorticoid release may be exaggerated in BALB/cByJ mice, such effects may be dependent on the specific characteristic of the stressor situation.
Biological markers for acquisition and extinction of fear conditioning were studied in 40 individuals selected for displaying either good or poor acquisition of fear conditioning. as estimated by the skin conductance response. Participants with a short serotonin transporter (5-HTT) promoter allele or low monoamine oxidase activity in platelets (trbc-MAO) displayed better acquisition than those with only long alleles or high trbc-MAO, whereas participants with a long dopamine D4 receptor (D4DR) exon III allele showed delayed extinction compared with those with only short alleles. The findings, that D4DR exon III and 5-HTT promoter genotypes and trbc-MAO activity are related to human fear conditioning, a basic form of associative learning, are consistent with animal studies suggesting a genetic contribution to fear conditioning. The authors suggest that in humans these genetic mechanisms are partly dopaminergic and serotonergic in origin.
Recent research in the areas of animal conditioning, the neural systems underlying emotion and memory, and the effect of fear on these systems is reviewed. This evidence points to an important distinction between hippocampally-dependent and non-hippocampally-dependent forms of memory that are differentially affected by extreme stress. The cognitive science perspective is related to a recent model of posttraumatic stress disorder, dual representation theory, that also posits separate memory systems underlying vivid reexperiencing versus ordinary autobiographical memories of trauma. This view is compared with other accounts in the literature of traumatic memory processes in PTSD, and the contrasting implications for therapy are discussed.
The influence of pulsed radiofrequency (RF) electromagnetic fields of digital GSM mobile phones (902 MHz, 217 Hz pulse modulation) on subjective symptoms or sensations in healthy subjects were studied in two single-blind experiments. The duration of the RF exposure was about 60 min in Experiment 1 and 30 min in Experiment 2. Each subject rated symptoms or sensations in the beginning of the experimental session and at the end of both the exposure and the nonexposure conditions. The symptoms rated were headache, dizziness, fatigue, itching or tingling of the skin, redness on the skin, and sensations of warmth on the skin. The results did not reveal any differences between exposure and non-exposure conditions, suggesting that a 30-60 min exposure to this RF field does not produce subjective symptoms in humans.
Many animals have an abundance and diverse assortment of peripheral sensors, both across and within sensory modalities. Multiple sensors offer many functional advantages to an animal's ability to perceive and respond to environmental signals. Advantages include extending the ability to detect and determine the spatial distribution of stimuli, improving the range and accuracy of discrimination among stimuli of different types and intensities, increasing behavioral sensitivity to stimuli, ensuring continued sensory capabilities when the probability of damage or other loss of function to some sensors is high, maintaining sensory function over the entire sensory surface during development and growth, and increasing the richness of behavioral output to sensory stimulation. In this paper, we use the crustacean chemosensory system as the primary example to discuss these functions of multiple sensors. These principles may be applicable to the function of autonomous robots and should be considered in their design.
Re-implementing biological mechanisms on robots not only has technological application but can provide a unique perspective on the nature of sensory processing in animals. To make a robot work, we need to understand the function as part of an embodied, behaving system. I argue that this perspective suggests that the terms &quot;representation&quot; and &quot;information processing&quot; can be misleading when we seek to understand how neurobiological mechanisms carry out perceptual processes. This argument is presented here with reference to a robot model of cricket behavior, which has demonstrated competence comparable to that of the insect, but utilizes surprisingly simple central processing. Instead it depends on sensory interfaces that are well matched to the task, and on the link between environment, action, and perception.
The opening and closing of the pore of voltage-gated ion channels is the basis for the nervous impulse. These conformational changes are triggered by the movement of an intrinsic voltage sensor, the fourth transmembrane segment, S4. The central problem of how the movement of S4 is coupled to channel opening and where S4 is located in relation to the pore is still unsolved. Here, we estimate the position of the extracellular end of S4 in the Shaker potassium channel by analyzing the electrostatic effect of introduced charges in the pore-forming motif (S5-S6). We also present a three-dimensional model for all transmembrane segments. Knowledge of this structure is essential for the attempts to understand how voltage opens these channels.
There is evidence that noradrenaline contributes to the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain produced by trauma to a peripheral nerve. It is, however, unclear which subtype(s) of alpha adrenergic receptors (AR) may be involved. In addition to pro-nociceptive actions of AR stimulation, alpha(2) AR agonists produce antinociceptive effects. Here we studied the contribution of the alpha(2) AR subtypes, alpha(2A), alpha(2B) and alpha(2C) to the development of neuropathic pain. We also examined the antinociceptive effect produced by the alpha(2) AR agonist dexmedetomidine in nerve-injured mice. The studies were performed in mice that carry either a point (alpha(2A)) or a null (alpha(2B) and alpha(2C)) mutation in the gene encoding the alpha(2) AR. To induce a neuropathic pain condition, we partially ligated the sciatic nerve and measured changes in thermal and mechanical sensitivity. Baseline mechanical and thermal withdrawal thresholds were similar in all mutant and wild-type mice; and, after peripheral nerve injury, all mice developed comparable hypersensitivity (allodynia) to thermal and mechanical stimulation. Dexmedetomidine reversed the allodynia at a low dose (3 microg kg(-1), s.c.) and produced antinociceptive effects at higher doses (10 - 30 microg kg(-1)) in all groups except in alpha(2A) AR mutant mice. The effect of dexmedetomidine was reversed by intrathecal, but not systemic, injection of the alpha(2) AR antagonist RS 42206. These results suggest that neither alpha(2A), alpha(2B) nor alpha(2C) AR is required for the development of neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury, however, the spinal alpha(2A) AR is essential for the antinociceptive effects of dexmedetomidine.
The endogenous cannabinoid receptor agonist anandamide (AEA) and the related compound palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) are inactivated by transport into cells followed by metabolism by fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). The cellular uptake of AEA has been characterized in detail, whereas less is known about the properties of the PEA uptake, in particular in neuronal cells. In the present study, the pharmacological and functional properties of PEA and AEA uptake have been investigated in mouse Neuro-2a neuroblastoma and, for comparison, in rat RBL-2H3 basophilic leukaemia cells. Saturable uptake of PEA and AEA into both cell lines were demonstrated with apparent K(M) values of 28 microM (PEA) and 10 microM (AEA) in Neuro-2a cells, and 30 microM (PEA) and 9.3 microM (AEA) in RBL-2H3 cells. Both PEA and AEA uptake showed temperature-dependence but only the AEA uptake was sensitive to treatment with Pronase and phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. The AEA uptake was inhibited by AM404, 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), R1- and S1-methanandamide, arachidonic acid and olvanil with similar potencies for the two cell types. PEA, up to a concentration of 100 microM, did not affect AEA uptake in either cell line. AEA, 2-AG, arachidonic acid, R1-methanandamide, (9)-THC, and cannabidiol inhibited PEA transport in both cell lines. The non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indomethacin inhibited the AEA uptake but had very weak effects on the uptake of PEA. From these data, it can be concluded that PEA is transported in to cells both by passive diffusion and by a facilitated transport that is pharmacologically distinguishable from AEA uptake.
1. The presence of 5-HT(7) receptor mRNA and protein in 5-HT neurons suggests that this receptor may act as a 5-HT autoreceptor. In this study, the effect of the 5-HT(7) receptor antagonist, SB-269970 ((R)-1-[3-hydroxy phenyl)sulfonyl]-2-[2-(4-methyl-1-piperidinyl)ethyl]pyrrolidine), was investigated on 5-HT release in the guinea-pig and rat cortex and the rat dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), using the techniques of in vitro [(3)H]-5-HT release or fast cyclic voltammetry, respectively. 2. Cortical slices were loaded with [(3)H]-5-HT and release was evoked by electrical stimulation. 5-CT inhibited the evoked release of [(3)H]-5-HT in a concentration-dependent manner. SB-269970 had no significant effect on [(3)H]-5-HT release while the 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist, SB-224289 significantly potentiated [(3)H]-5-HT release. In addition, SB-269970 was unable to attenuate the 5-CT-induced inhibition of release while SB-224289 produced a rightward shift of the 5-CT response, generating estimated pK(B) values of 7.8 and 7.6 at the guinea-pig and rat terminal 5-HT autoreceptors respectively. 3. Rat DRN slices were electrically stimulated and the evoked 5-HT efflux detected by voltammetric analysis. 8-OH-DPAT inhibited evoked 5-HT efflux and was fully reversed by WAY 100635. SB-269970 had no effect on either 5-HT efflux per se or 8-OH-DPAT-induced inhibition of 5-HT efflux. In addition, 5-CT inhibited 5-HT efflux in a concentration-dependent manner. SB-269970 was unable to attenuate the 5-CT-induced inhibition of 5-HT efflux. 4. In conclusion, we were unable to provide evidence to suggest a 5-HT autoreceptor role for 5-HT(7) receptors. However, investigations with more selective 5-HT(7) receptor agonists are needed to confirm the data reported here.
1. The effects of tonabersat (SB-220453) were evaluated on trigeminal nerve ganglion stimulation-induced sensory-autonomic neurovascular reflexes in the anaesthetized cat. Comparisons were made to intravenous administration of carabersat (SB-204269), and to valproate, gabapentin and lamotrigine following intraduodenal administration. 2. There were no effects on resting blood pressure, heart rate, carotid blood flow or carotid vascular resistance for any compound evaluated. 3. Trigeminal nerve ganglion stimulation increased carotid blood flow by 65% and reduced vascular resistance by 41% with minimal effect on blood pressure (&lt; 10%) and no effect on heart rate. Intravenous infusion of tonabersat or carabersat (both 3.4 micromol h(-1)) produced time related reductions in stimulation-induced responses with a maximal inhibition (relative to control) of 30 +/- 7% (n=4), at 240 min for tonabersat and 33+/-4% (n=3) at 180 min for carabersat. Tonabersat (11.5 micromol h(-1)) produced a similar inhibitory effect (32 +/- 9%, n=4) after 120 min of infusion. 4. Following intraduodenal administration of tonabersat, the maximal inhibition of nerve stimulation-induced responses was 55 +/- 4% at 120 min (n=4) for tonabersat 10 mg kg(-1), and 24+/-2% after 180 min for 1 mg kg(-1) (n=4). 5. Intraduodenal administration of sodium valproate (10 or 100 mg kg(-1) n=4/group) had no effect on neurovascular reflexes. Maximal inhibition of nerve ganglion-stimulated reductions in carotid vascular resistance were observed at 150 min for lamotrigine (50 mg kg(-1), 52+/-12%, n=4) and gabapentin (100 mg kg(-1), 17+/-13%, n=3). Lamotrigine 10 mg kg(-1) produced 22+/-11% (n=3) inhibition after 180 min. 6. These data demonstrate blockade of trigeminal parasympathetic reflexes with tonabersat, carabersat and other anticonvulsants. These agents may therefore have therapeutic benefit in conditions where this type of reflex is evident.
1. These experiments determined whether the housing conditions of rats influenced the effects of nicotine in two animal tests of anxiety, social interaction and elevated plus-maze tests. 2. In animals housed singly for 7 days, (-)nicotine (0.025 mg kg(-1) s.c.) was ineffective, but 0.05, 0.1 and 0.25 mg kg(-1) (s.c.) significantly increased the time spent in social interaction, without changing locomotor activity, thus indicating anxiolytic actions. (-)Nicotine (0.45 mg kg(-1) s.c.) significantly reduced social interaction, indicating an anxiogenic effect. 3. However, in group-housed animals, (-)nicotine (0.025 mg kg(-1) s.c.) had a significant anxiolytic effect in the social interaction test, but 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.25 and 0.45 mg kg(-1) were ineffective. (-)Nicotine (1 mg kg(-1)) reduced motor activity and social interaction in the group-housed animals. 4. In the elevated plus-maze, the time-course and the dose-response curve to nicotine were investigated. In both singly- and group-housed rats, (-) nicotine (0.1 - 0.45 mg kg(-1) s.c.) decreased the per cent entries into, and per cent time spent on, the open arms, indicating anxiogenic effects. 5. The housing condition influenced the time course, with significant effects at 5 and 30 min after injection in group-housed rats, and significant effects at 30 and 60 min in singly-housed rats. 6. In the social interaction test there was no difference in the scores of the first and last rats removed from group cages, whereas the order of removal from the cages did affect the scores in the elevated plus-maze. 7. These results provide further evidence that the two animal tests model distinct states of anxiety, and show how social isolation powerfully modifies both anxiolytic and anxiogenic effects of nicotine.


