
Prothymosin  (ProT) possesses multiple functions for cell robustness. This protein functions intracellularly to stimulate cell proliferation and differentiation through epigenetic or genomic mechanisms. ProT also regulates the cell defensive mechanisms through an interaction with the Nrf2-Keap1 system. Under the apoptotic conditions, it inhibits apoptosome formation by binding to Apaf-1. Regarding extracellular functions, ProT is extracellularly released from the nucleus upon necrosis-inducing ischemia stress in a manner of nonclassical release, and thereby inhibits necrosis. However, under the condition of apoptosis, the C-terminus of ProT is cleaved off and loses binding activity to cargo protein S100A13 for nonclassical release. However, cleaved ProT is retained in the cytosol and inhibits apoptosome formation. ProT was recently reported to cause immunological actions through the Toll-like receptor 4. However, the authors also suggest the possible existence of additional receptors for robust cell activities against ischemia stress.


Since the introduction of the Orphan Drug Act in 1983, designed to promote development of treatments for rare diseases, at least 378 orphan drugs have been approved. Incentives include financial support, tax credits, and perhaps most importantly, extended market exclusivity. These incentives have encouraged industry interest and accelerated research on rare diseases, allowing patients with orphan diseases access to treatments. However, extended market exclusivity has been associated with unacceptably high drug costs, both for newly developed drugs and for drugs that were previously widely available. We suggest that a paradoxical effect of orphan product exclusivity can be reduced patient access to existing drugs. In addition, the costs of each new drug are arguably unsustainable for patients and for the American health care system. Of all the specialties, neurology has the third highest number of orphan product designations, and neurological diseases account for at least one-fifth of rare diseases. Citing the use of tetrabenazine for chorea in Huntington disease, adrenocorticotropic hormone for infantile spasms, and enzyme replacement therapy with alglucosidase alpha for Pompe disease, we highlight these paradoxical effects.
Although genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have proven remarkably effective at identifying reliably associated genetic variants, the biology underlying these discoveries is rarely immediately apparent and in most cases seems bound to require extensive fine mapping and functional analysis before it is revealed. In this context, it is logical and appropriate to try to interrogate available genetic data for biological insights. However, because such efforts invariably depend upon mathematical modeling, misperceptions can easily arise if the relevant mathematical properties are overlooked or forgotten. In this report, we will examine these mathematical issues, highlight some of the more common misconceptions, and hopefully help to clarify the somewhat blurry distinction between biology and mathematics that can so easily undermine and obscure the value of GWAS discoveries.

Poor response inhibition has been associated with obesity, excessive food intake, and other consumptive behaviours, including alcohol use. However, the correlation between obesity and addictive behaviours like alcoholism is low: people who are obese appear to have a specific problem in restraining food intake. This would imply that obese people have more difficulties in inhibiting responses towards food, compared to other rewarding stimuli. In the present study 89 children (ages 7-9) were tested with the stop signal task, in which responses towards food pictures or toy pictures had to be inhibited. Results showed that children were less effective in inhibiting responses towards food and percentage overweight predicted a lower ability to inhibit responses in general. When dichotomizing the sample in overweight and lean children, it appeared that overweight children were specifically less effective in inhibition towards food cues, compared to lean children. In conclusion: The results confirm weight related inhibitory problems and might explain the increased overeating to food cues in overweight children, as reported in the literature.
Abnormal distributions of transition metals inside the body are potential diagnostic markers for several diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Wilson's disease, and cancer. In this article, we demonstrate that P57/Gd, a novel prion-based contrast agent, can selectively image tissues with excessive copper accumulation using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). P57/Gd selectivity binds copper(II) over other physiologically relevant cations such as zinc, iron, manganese, and calcium. To simulate a metabolic copper disorder, we treated mice with an intraperitoneal injection of a CuSO(4) solution to induce a renal copper overload. The MRI signal intensities from the renal cortex and medulla of copper spiked animals that were administered P57/Gd were found to correlate with the ex vivo copper concentrations determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry.
While some studies on dietary supplementation with docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n-3) have reported a beneficial effect on memory as a function of age, others have failed to find any effect. To clarify this issue, we sought to determine whether supplementing mice with a DHA-enriched diet could alter the ability of synapses to undergo activity-dependent changes in the hippocampus, a brain structure involved in forming new spatial memories. We found that DHA was increased by 29% 5% (mean SE) in the hippocampus for the supplemented (DHA+) versus nonsupplemented (control) group (n = 5 mice per group; p&lt; 0.05). Such DHA elevation was associated with enhanced synaptic transmission (p&lt; 0.05) as assessed by application of a high-frequency electrical stimulation protocol (100Hz stimulation, which induced transient (&lt;2h) increases in synaptic strength) to slices from DHA+ (n = 4 mice) hippocampi when compared with controls (n = 4 mice). Increased synaptic responses were evident 60min poststimulation. These results suggest that dietary DHA supplementation facilitates synaptic plasticity following brief high-frequency stimulation. This increase in synaptic transmission might provide a physiological correlation for the improved spatial learning and memory observed following DHA supplementation.

Although significant progress has occurred in the past 20 years regarding our understanding of Alzheimer disease pathogenesis, we have yet to identify disease-modifying therapeutics capable of substantially altering the clinical course of this prevalent neurodegenerative disease. In this short review, we discuss 2 approaches that are currently being tested clinically (-secretase inhibition and -secretase modulation) and emphasize the significant differences between these 2 therapeutic approaches. We also discuss certain genetic- and biomarker-based translational and clinical trial paradigms that may assist in developing a useful therapeutic agent.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is among the earliest illnesses described in human history and remains a major source of morbidity and mortality in the modern era. It is estimated that 2% of the US population lives with long-term disabilities due to a prior TBI, and incidence and prevalence rates are even higher in developing countries. One of the most feared long-term consequences of TBIs is dementia, as multiple epidemiologic studies show that experiencing a TBI in early or midlife is associated with an increased risk of dementia in late life. The best data indicate that moderate and severe TBIs increase risk of dementia between 2- and 4-fold. It is less clear whether mild TBIs such as brief concussions result in increased dementia risk, in part because mild head injuries are often not well documented and retrospective studies have recall bias. However, it has been observed for many years that multiple mild TBIs as experienced by professional boxers are associated with a high risk of chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), a type of dementia with distinctive clinical and pathologic features. The recent recognition that CTE is common in retired professional football and hockey players has rekindled interest in this condition, as has the recognition that military personnel also experience high rates of mild TBIs and may have a similar syndrome. It is presently unknown whether dementia in TBI survivors is pathophysiologically similar to Alzheimer disease, CTE, or some other entity. Such information is critical for developing preventive and treatment strategies for a common cause of acquired dementia. Herein, we will review the epidemiologic data linking TBI and dementia, existing clinical and pathologic data, and will identify areas where future research is needed.



The human brain represents different kinds of visual feature dimensions in different ways. For example, surface features exhibit some properties that are very different from contour features, and some feature dimensions may be represented more extensively in either the dorsal or the ventral visual stream. Given such differences, we investigated feature binding across different feature dimensions and whether some feature dimensions might be more easily bound together than others. In Experiment 1, we looked at cross-dimension bindings for all combinations of color, orientation, and shape dimensions, while at the same time controlling for feature discriminability. Rates of correct binding, illusory conjunctions, and feature errors were equivalent in all cases. There was no bias so that some feature dimensions were easier to combine than others. In Experiment 2, we manipulated the difficulty of feature discrimination for the key, target-defining feature and the report feature. Rates of binding errors increased with difficulty of the key feature, but not with that of the report feature. The accuracy of feature discrimination could be dissociated from the accuracy of binding the feature to an object. Across both experiments, the accuracy of feature binding was independent of specific feature dimensions or perceptibility. These findings are discussed in relation to both feature integration and multiple-stage accounts of visual feature integration.

Joseph V. Brady (1922-2011) created behavior-analytic neuroscience and the analytic framework for understanding how the external and internal neurobiological environments and mechanisms interact. Brady's approach offered synthesis as well as analysis. He embraced Findley's approach to constructing multioperant behavioral repertoires that found their way into designing environments for astronauts as well as studying drug effects on human social behavior in microenvironments. Brady created translational neurobehavioral science before such a concept existed. One of his most lasting contributions was developing a framework for ethical decision making to protect the rights of the people who participate in scientific research.
The amygdala is not only a critical site for the generation of anxiety and fear, but is involved in the affective processing of sensory information including nociception. Previously, we demonstrated that the stress hormone corticosterone (CORT) localized to the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) induces anxiety-like behavior and increases the sensitivity to visceral or somatic stimuli in rats. Here we test the hypothesis that exposure of the CeA to elevated CORT alters the expression of key receptors and ion channels that are implicated in anxiety and pain processing.
The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) measures decision-making processes by simulating real-life decisions involving reward, punishment, and uncertainty of outcomes. In humans, men show more choices for the advantageous option than women. Here, we investigated sex differences in a rat model of the IGT (r-IGT). In our r-IGT mildly food-deprived rats learn to differentiate a long-term advantageous arm from a long-term disadvantageous arm differing in frequency and amount of sugar pellets as well as unpalatable but not uneatable quinine-treated sugar pellets. We also used a T-maze discrimination procedure in which rats learn to differentiate a high from a low reward arm to further explore sex differences in reward-related decision-making. In line with human data, male rats showed a stronger task progression of choices for the advantageous option than female rats. Furthermore, male rats showed more win-stay and less lose-shift behaviour in the advantageous arm as the task progressed than female rats. Whilst both male and female rats had a stronger preference for the high over the small reward arm in the T-maze, males increased this preference over sessions, whilst females did not. These data are discussed in relation to sex differences in processing rewards and punishments.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is thought to play a role in the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative disorders. However, clinical trials with COX-2 inhibitors have yielded contradictory results. In the present study we investigated whether COX-2 plays a role in the behavioral and cognitive impairments seen in olfactory bulbectomized rats. These impairments arise from neurodegenerative processes. First, we determined the time course of the OBX-induced behavioral (hyperactivity) and cognitive changes (fear memory) and how these correlate with changes in COX-2 mRNA expression in hippocampus. This experiment showed that the major impairments in behavior and cognition developed between Days 3 and 14 after OBX surgery, which correlated with changes in mRNA levels of COX-2, which increased at Days 7 and 14 after surgery but not anymore at day 28. In a subsequent experiment, rats were treated, starting two days before surgery, with the COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib (10 mg/kg, dissolved in drinking water) for 4 weeks. OBX-induced hyperactivity in the open field was normalized after 2 weeks of celecoxib treatment, but not longer after 4 weeks. Celecoxib partly rescued fear learning and memory deficits without affecting spatial memory. The effects of celecoxib on fear memory lasted up to 1 week posttreatment, but disappeared thereafter. Our results show that COX-2 plays a limited role (both in magnitude and time) in the development of the OBX syndrome.
Autism is a highly disabling neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by social deficits, language impairment, and repetitive behaviors. There are few effective biological treatments for this disorder, partly due to the lack of translational biomarkers. However, recent data suggest that autism has reliable electrophysiological endophenotypes, along with evidence that some deficits may be caused by NMDA receptor (NMDAR) dysfunction. Similarly, the NMDAR antagonist MK801 has been used in behavioral animal models of autism. Since MK801 has also been used as a model of schizophrenia, this paper examines the independent and overlapping ways in which MK801 recreates the electrophysiogical changes present in both diseases. Mouse EEG was recorded in response to auditory stimuli after either vehicle or MK801 and the dose-response relationship for each measure was determined. ERP component amplitude and latency analysis was performed along with time-frequency analysis of gamma frequency inter-trial coherence and evoked power. Evoked gamma power and ITC were decreased by MK801 at the highest dose. P1, N1 latency and gamma baseline power were increased in dose dependent fashion following MK801. There were no amplitude changes in P1 or N1. MK801 caused alterations in evoked gamma activity, gamma ITC, gamma baseline power, P1 and N1 latency similar to findings in autism. These data provide evidence indicating that NMDAR dysfunction may contribute to deficits specific to autism and some that overlap with other disorders such as schizophrenia. Such observations could be important for developing novel therapeutics, as electrophysiological endophenotypes associate with functional measures and may provide early biomarkers for efficacy in clinical trials.
Adolescence is a developmental period in which brain structures involved with stress responses, such as the medial pre-frontal cortex (mPFC), mature. Therefore, exposure to a stressor at this time may have effects that endure the lifespan. The goal of the present study was to determine whether behavioral control over an adolescent stressor mitigates the behavioral and neurochemical consequences of the stressor as occurs in adult rats. Adolescent rats (post natal day 35) were exposed to either inescapable (IS) or escapable tailshocks (ES). As in adults we observed a &quot;stressor controllability effect&quot;; IS reduced social exploration and activated the serotonergic dorsal raph nucleus while ES did not. Excitotoxic lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex prevented the stressor controllability effect. We also demonstrate that a controllable adolescent stress prevents the behavioral and neurochemical consequences of IS in adulthood. Thus, the controllability of a stressor during adolescence is an important psychological factor.
The corpus callosum (CC) is the major white matter tract that connects the two cerebral hemispheres. Some have theorized that individual differences in behavioral and brain asymmetries are linked to variation in the density of axon fibers that traverse different sections of the CC. In this study, we examined whether variation in axon fiber density in the CC was associated with variation in asymmetries in the planum temporale (PT) in a sample of 20 post-mortem chimpanzee brains. We further tested for sex differences in small and large CC fiber proportions and density in the chimpanzees. We found that the distribution of small and large fibers within the CC of chimpanzees follows a similar pattern to those reported in humans. We also found that chimpanzees with larger asymmetries in the PT had fewer large fibers in the posterior portion of the CC, particularly among females. As has been reported in human brains, the findings reported here indicate that individual differences in brain asymmetries are associated with variation in interhemispheric connectivity as manifest in axon fiber density and size.
We tested the hypotheses that (a) the propensity to emit high-frequency (50 kHz) ultrasonic vocalizations in response to manual &quot;tickling&quot; by an experimenter, may serve as a behavioral marker of positive affect in rats and, (b) that tickling may reduce the severity of stress. Group-housed adult rats were subjected to the 15-s tickling procedure daily, and their ultrasonic vocalization response was measured over a period of two weeks, until it has stabilized. The animals were then subjected to the restraint stress lasting for one week. The experimental groups were exposed to stress 1 h before or 1 h after tickling and the controls were tickled without stressing. Rats that were stressed 1 h before tickling demonstrated a decreased number of the high-frequency calls as compared with the non-stressed controls. Stressing 23 h before tickling reduced the call response less effectively. The propensity to emit high-frequency calls has normalized 7 and 12 days following the end of stressing. In addition, stressed groups showed a diminution of sucrose preference, which in the case of rats stressed 23 h before tickling persisted even for 12 days following the end of restraint. The present data suggest that repeated stress may decrease the propensity to produce high-frequency vocalizations, and that this measure may serve as a biomarker of the depressive state of animals.
The present study aimed to step into two-person neuroscience by investigating the hemodynamic correlates of between-brain connectivity during joint task performance. To test this approach, wireless functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) was used to record brain signals during performance of a dual n-back task simultaneously in paired players as compared to single players. Evaluating functional connectivity between the paired players' brains using wavelet transform coherence (WTC) analysis revealed (1) a significant increase in between-brain coherence during joint task performance as compared to baseline condition. These patterns were observed in two frequency bands, i.e. in the heart rate (HR) frequency and in low-frequency oscillations (LFOs). (2) Averaged hemodynamic responses revealed larger responses in total hemoglobin concentration changes [tHb] for the paired players as compared to the single players; in addition, within the paired players groups joint task performance revealed larger changes in [tHb] as compared to a rest period and to a baseline condition. (3) No increase in behavioral performance was found in the paired players as compared to the single players. Our findings designate fNIRS as suitable tool for monitoring interpersonal performances between two subjects. The results show that two-person performance leads to relevant and significant effects, which are detectable using between-brain connectivity analysis. Using this approach can provide additional insight into interpersonal activation patterns not detectable using typical one-person experiments. Our study demonstrates the potential of simultaneously assessing cerebral hemodynamic responses for various two-person experimental paradigms and research areas where interpersonal performances are involved.
We address current needs for neogenomics-based theoretical and computational approaches for several neuroscience research fields, from investigations of heritability properties, passing by investigations of spatiotemporal dynamics in the neuromodulatory microcircuits involved in perceptual learning and attentional shifts, to the application of genetic algorithms to create robots exhibiting ongoing emergence.
The target article by Charney convincingly argues that genomic plasticity perinatally induced by the environment creates a complication in determining which parts of behavior are attributed to nature and which to nurture. I argue that real life is even more complex because (1) genotype influences sensitivity to environmental stimuli, and (2) the genome continues to be modified throughout life.
Charney describes several mechanisms that will bias estimates of heritability in unpredictable directions. In addition, the mechanisms described by Charney explain the puzzling fact that research in human-behavior genetics routinely reports higher heritabilities than animal studies do. However, I argue that the concept of heritability has no real place in human research anyway.
Children's reading and spelling errors show that orthographic learning involves complex interactions with phonology, morphology, and meaning throughout development. Even young children seek to make their visual word recognition strategies linguistically coherent. Orthographic knowledge gained through spelling affects reading, and vice versa. Developmental data support Frost's claim that letter-coding flexibility reflects the optimization of encoding resources in a highly developed system.
Fluoxetine is the only selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor registered for the treatment of major depressive disorder in pediatric populations, despite reports that it is disproportionately associated with an array of adverse side effects that include agitation, hostility, and overt acts of pathological aggression and violence in youth. This study examined the effects of repeated adolescent fluoxetine administration on offensive aggression and the development of the serotonin (5HT) and vasopressin (AVP) neural systems modulating this behavior using pubertal Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) as an adolescent-animal model. Adolescent hamsters administered fluoxetine were tested for offensive aggression using the resident/intruder test, sacrificed the following day, and, using immunohistochemistry, examined for 5HT and AVP afferent innervation/development to areas of the brain implicated in aggression control. Repeated exposure to a low dose (0.3 mg/kg/day) of fluoxetine during adolescence increased nearly all measures of offensive aggression (i.e., upright offensive attacks, lateral attacks, flank/rump bites, pursuits, flank marks), whereas measures of social interest (i.e., olfactory investigation, contact time), comfort (i.e., grooming), and locomotion (i.e., contact time, cage climbing) remained constant. Fluoxetine exposure also increased 5HT and AVP afferent development to brain areas implicated in aggressive behavior, most notably the latero-anterior hypothalamus (LAH)-an area of convergence for developmental and neuroplastic changes correlated with offensive aggression in hamsters. These data indicate that repeated administration of clinically relevant doses of fluoxetine during adolescent development directly stimulates aggressive behavior and alters LAH 5HT and AVP development, yet only alterations in AVP afferent development within the LAH correlate with the fluoxetine-induced aggressive behavioral phenotype.
Previous work has demonstrated that injections of the -aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) agonist muscimol into the nucleus accumbens shell (AcbSh) induce pronounced increases in the intake of solid foods and sucrose solutions, but do not potentiate water intake. In order to clarify the range of situations in which inactivation of the AcbSh potentiates ingestive behavior, we examined the effects of muscimol injections on the intake of a 3% NaCl solution in sodium-depleted animals. Although sodium-depleted subjects avidly consumed this solution, muscimol injections had no effect either on the volume consumed or on a variety of microstructural licking parameters. In contrast, in these same animals, muscimol injections significantly increased licking of a 10% sucrose solution. These results suggest that inactivation of the AcbSh may selectively increase the intake of foods, but not that of other homeostatically relevant ingestates. Examination of microstructural parameters suggested that the effect of muscimol on sucrose intake was not mediated by alterations in the &quot;palatability&quot; of the sucrose solution. We also observed that sodium-depleted subjects displayed significantly larger salt intakes after their second experience with sodium depletion than their first, and microstructural analysis in this case indicated that this sensitization effect was produced in a manner consistent with the animals showing increased &quot;hedonic responsiveness&quot; to the salt solution.
Chronic exposure to light at night (LAN) is a circadian disruptor and may be linked to various health risks, including mood disorders. We recently demonstrated that chronic exposure to dim (5 lux) LAN provokes depressive-like behaviors and reduced hippocampal CA1 dendritic spine density in female hamsters. Whether this model is responsive to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors remains unspecified. In this study, we exposed hamsters to 5 lux LAN and treated with citalopram to determine effects on depressive-like behavior and CA1 dendritic spine density. Female hamsters were ovariectomized at adulthood and housed in either a standard light-dark cycle (LD) or dim LAN (dLAN). After 4 weeks exposure, treatment with either citalopram or vehicle was administered for 2 weeks while hamsters remained in experimental lighting conditions. Depressive-like behavior was assayed using the forced swim test and brains were processed for Golgi-Cox staining and analyzed for dendritic spine density. Treatment with citalopram rescued behavior in the forced swim test in hamsters housed in dLAN, but had no effect on hamsters housed in LD. Dendritic spine density in CA1 was moderately improved by citalopram treatment, but not fully restored. These results validate our LAN paradigm as a depression model by showing citalopram selectively improves depressive-like behavior in dLAN conditions, but not in LD conditions. These data also suggest standard SSRI therapy may be effective for individuals experiencing depression related to circadian disruption and LAN exposure, such as shift workers.
Adolescence is an ontogenetic period characterized by numerous hormonal, neural, and behavioral changes. In animal models, adolescents exhibit greater levels of novelty-seeking behavior and risk-taking relative to adults, behaviors associated in humans with increases in impulsivity and elevated propensities to engage in drug and alcohol seeking behaviors. The current series of experiments sought to explore possible age-related differences in impulsivity when indexed using delay discounting in adolescent (postnatal day [P] 25-27) and adult (P68-71) female (Experiment 1) and male (Experiment 2) Sprague-Dawley rats. In both experiments, adolescents exhibited significantly greater levels of impulsive-like behavior in this test relative to adults-even when data were adjusted to account for baseline differences in activity levels (i.e., general nose-poking behavior) across age. Taken together, these results extend to both sexes previous findings of adolescent-associated elevations in impulsivity observed among male mice using delay discounting, as well as among male rats using other procedures to index impulsivity. That these age differences were observed among both male and female rats suggests that impulsivity may be a pervasive feature of adolescence, and contributes to the expression of risky behaviors during this ontogenetic period.
Drug-associated cues are believed to be important mediators of addiction and drug relapse. Although such cues may influence drug-seeking behavior through multiple routes, it is their putative incentive motivational properties-their ability to elicit &quot;craving&quot;-that interests many addiction researchers. The Pavlovian-to-instrumental transfer paradigm is commonly used to assay cue-evoked incentive motivation in situations involving natural rewards, but has not been widely applied to the study of drug self-administration. We used this paradigm to determine whether cues paired with intravenous cocaine could promote performance of an independently trained task in which rats self-administered cocaine by completing a chain of two different lever press actions, a procedure used to parse behavior into cocaine seeking (first action) and cocaine taking (second action). Rats showed significant transfer, increasing task performance during cocaine-paired cues. This effect was observed for both seeking and taking actions, although a trend toward greater cocaine taking was observed, a result that is consistent with studies using natural rewards. Our results demonstrate that cocaine-paired cues can provoke the pursuit of cocaine through a Pavlovian motivational process. This phenomenon may provide a useful new tool for modeling drug relapse, particularly as a method for targeting the response-invigorating effects of stimulus-drug learning.
It is well known that the metabolism of alcohol and cognitive functions can vary during the menstrual cycle. Also, both alcohol ingestion and hormonal variations during menstruation have been associated with characteristic changes in electroencephalographic (EEG) activity. The aim of the present study was to determine whether EEG activity during the performance of the Tower of London (TOL) task is affected by previous ingestion of alcohol and whether these EEG patterns vary in relation to different phases of the menstrual cycle. For this purpose, female participants consumed a moderate dose of alcohol or placebo during the follicular and early luteal phases of the menstrual cycle and then, 35 min after liquid ingestion, EEG activity was recorded during the performance of TOL. A deleterious effect of alcohol on TOL performance was potentiated in the follicular phase, related to a higher 1 relative power, probably as a result of the low progesterone levels characteristic of this menstrual phase. These data show the feasibility of examining the interaction of alcohol and menstrual cycle phases on cognitive performance by means of EEG recording, and contribute toward a better understanding of the brain mechanisms that underlie the cognitive changes that occur during the menstrual cycle under the effects of alcohol.
Salvinorin A (SalvA), the hallucinogenic derivative of the plant Salvia divinorum, is a selective -opioid receptor agonist that may also have antidepressant properties. Chronic mild stress (CMS) was applied to male and female Long-Evans rats to model anhedonia common in depression. The progressive loss in preference for a sucrose solution over plain water, a measure of anhedonia, and locomotor activity were monitored for 7 weeks. Because antidepressant medications often modify reproductive functions, endocrine glands and hormone-sensitive tissues were assessed at necropsy after the conclusion of the behavioral protocol. Three weeks of CMS exposure led to a decrease in sucrose preference. CMS was continued for 3 additional weeks and animals were randomly assigned to treatment with 1 mg SalvA/kg body weight or to a vehicle control group. The results indicate that SalvA reversed anhedonia whereas control animals continued to show a suppressed preference for the sucrose solution. In addition, no change in sucrose preference was observed in nonstressed rats that were exposed to the same dosage of SalvA. The results indicate that SalvA is an effective antidepressant agent when administered chronically to rats showing symptoms of depression similar to those observed in humans.
Two types of model propose that strategic decisions during contests are determined either by (i) a mutual-assessment process or (ii) a self-assessment process. Vocal signals are thought to convey information about the competitive abilities of individuals, the ultimate function of which is a reduction in costs associated with fighting consistent with the principle of mutual assessment. Nevertheless, the limited evidence that male ungulates engage in mutual assessment of vocal rates during dyadic contests has been questioned. Therefore, we examined the vocal rates of winners and losers during escalated dyadic contests between male fallow deer in order to further inform on this issue. Our results showed that winners and losers did not differ in vocal rate. The best model fit that accounted for individual vocal rates included a preponderance of factors related to the opponent indicating that contestants were attending to their opponent during fights. Vocal rate was, therefore, dependent on estimates of opponent quality without reference to self, supporting an 'opponent-only' rather than a mutual assessment process.
LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) is an enzyme implicated in human disease, containing kinase and GTPase functions within the same multidomain open reading frame. Dominant mutations in the LRRK2 gene are the most common cause of familial PD (Parkinson's disease). Additionally, in genome-wide association studies, the LRRK2 locus has been linked to risk of PD, Crohn's disease and leprosy, and LRRK2 has also been linked with cancer. Despite its association with human disease, very little is known about its pathophysiology. Recent reports suggest a functional association between LRRK2 and autophagy. Implications of this set of data for our understanding of LRRK2's role in physiology and disease are discussed in the present paper.
Missense mutations in LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) contribute significantly to autosomal dominant PD (Parkinson's disease). Genome-wide association studies have suggested further that mutations in LRRK2 comprise a risk factor for sporadic PD. How LRRK2 contributes to PD, however, is largely unknown. Recent work has shown that LRRK2 is highly expressed in tissue and circulating immune cells and is suggestive of a potential role for LRRK2 in innate immunity. These studies and their potential implications for PD are discussed in the present paper.
The PD (Parkinson's disease) protein LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) occurs in cells as a highly phosphorylated protein, with the majority of phosphosites clustering in the region between the ankyrin repeat and leucine-rich repeat domains. The observation that several pathogenic variants of LRRK2 display strongly reduced cellular phosphorylation suggests that phosphorylation of LRRK2 is involved in the PD pathological process. Furthermore, treatment of cells with inhibitors of LRRK2 kinase activity, which are currently considered as potential disease-modifying therapeutics for PD, leads to a rapid decrease in the phosphorylation levels of LRRK2. For these reasons, understanding the cellular role and regulation of LRRK2 as a kinase and as a substrate has become the focus of intense investigation. In the present review, we discuss what is currently known about the cellular phosphorylation of LRRK2 and how this relates to its function and dysfunction.
The human ROCO proteins are a family of four proteins characterized by a conserved supradomain: a Ras-like GTPase domain. This domain consists of ROC (Ras of complex proteins) occurring in tandem with a COR (C-terminal of ROC) domain. Together, these proteins are linked to various pathologies including cancer and PD (Parkinson's disease). Despite an increasing research focus on these proteins, their functions in general, and their specific roles in disease, are still unknown. In the case of MASL1 (malignant fibrous histiocytoma amplified sequences with leucine-rich tandem repeats 1), a predicted oncoprotein in MFHs (malignant fibrous histiocytomas), there is a particular lack of information available in the literature. The aim of the present review is therefore to summarize the existing information on MASL1 and also to compile data that could be linked to MASL1 and thus help our understanding of this neglected ROCO protein.
LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) is a large protein encoding multiple functional domains, including two catalytically active domains, a kinase and a GTPase domain. The LRRK2 GTPase belongs to the Ras-GTPase superfamily of GTPases, more specifically to the ROC (Ras of complex proteins) subfamily. Studies with recombinant LRRK2 protein purified from eukaryotic cells have confirmed that LRRK2 binds guanine nucleotides and catalyses the hydrolysis of GTP to GDP. LRRK2 is linked to PD (Parkinson's disease) and GTPase activity is impaired for several PD mutants located in the ROC and COR (C-terminal of ROC) domains, indicating that it is involved in PD pathogenesis. Ras family GTPases are known to function as molecular switches, and several studies have explored this possibility for LRRK2. These studies show that there is interplay between the LRRK2 GTPase function and its kinase function, with most data pointing towards a role for the kinase domain as an upstream regulator of ROC. The GTPase function is therefore a pivotal functionality within the LRRK2-mediated signalling cascade which includes partners encoded by other LRRK2 domains as well as other cellular signalling partners. The present review examines what is known of the enzymatic properties of the LRRK2 GTPase, the interplay between ROC and other LRRK2 domains, and the interplay between ROC and other cellular proteins with the dual goal to understand how LRRK2 GTPase affects cellular functions and point to future research venues.
Mutations in LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) are the most common genetic cause of PD (Parkinson's disease). To investigate how mutations in LRRK2 cause PD, we generated LRRK2 mutant mice either lacking its expression or expressing the R1441C mutant form. Homozygous R1441C knockin mice exhibit no dopaminergic neurodegeneration or alterations in steady-state levels of striatal dopamine, but they show impaired dopamine neurotransmission, as was evident from reductions in amphetamine-induced locomotor activity and stimulated catecholamine release in cultured chromaffin cells as well as impaired dopamine D2 receptor-mediated functions. Whereas LRRK2-/- brains are normal, LRRK2-/- kidneys at 20 months of age develop striking accumulation and aggregation of -synuclein and ubiquitinated proteins, impairment of the autophagy-lysosomal pathway, and increases in apoptotic cell death, inflammatory responses and oxidative damage. Our further analysis of LRRK2-/- kidneys at multiple ages revealed unique age-dependent biphasic alterations of the autophagic activity, which is unchanged at 1 month of age, enhanced at 7 months, but reduced at 20 months. Levels of -synuclein and protein carbonyls, a general oxidative damage marker, are also decreased in LRRK2-/- kidneys at 7 months of age. Interestingly, this biphasic alteration is associated with increased levels of lysosomal proteins and proteases as well as progressive accumulation of autolysosomes and lipofuscin granules. We conclude that pathogenic mutations in LRRK2 impair the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway, and LRRK2 plays an essential role in the dynamic regulation of autophagy function in vivo.
LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) is a gene of unknown function that has been linked to a number a human diseases, including PD (Parkinson's disease), IBD (inflammatory bowel disease), leprosy and cancer. The papers from the LRRK2: Function and Dysfunction meeting in this issue of Biochemical Society Transactions explore our growing knowledge of LRRK2's normal function, the role that it plays in disease and emerging strategies to exploit LRRK2 as a therapeutic target.
The spatial responses of many of the cells recorded in all layers of rodent medial entorhinal cortex (mEC) show mutually aligned grid patterns. Recent experimental findings have shown that grids can often be better described as elliptical rather than purely circular and that, beyond the mutual alignment of their grid axes, ellipses tend to also orient their long axis along preferred directions. Are grid alignment and ellipse orientation aspects of the same phenomenon? Does the grid alignment result from single-unit mechanisms or does it require network interactions? We address these issues by refining a single-unit adaptation model of grid formation, to describe specifically the spontaneous emergence of conjunctive grid-by-head-direction cells in layers III, V, and VI of mEC. We find that tight alignment can be produced by recurrent collateral interactions, but this requires head-direction (HD) modulation. Through a competitive learning process driven by spatial inputs, grid fields then form already aligned, and with randomly distributed spatial phases. In addition, we find that the self-organization process is influenced by any anisotropy in the behavior of the simulated rat. The common grid alignment often orients along preferred running directions (RDs), as induced in a square environment. When speed anisotropy is present in exploration behavior, the shape of individual grids is distorted toward an ellipsoid arrangement. Speed anisotropy orients the long ellipse axis along the fast direction. Speed anisotropy on its own also tends to align grids, even without collaterals, but the alignment is seen to be loose. Finally, the alignment of spatial grid fields in multiple environments shows that the network expresses the same set of grid fields across environments, modulo a coherent rotation and translation. Thus, an efficient metric encoding of space may emerge through spontaneous pattern formation at the single-unit level, but it is coherent, hence context-invariant, if aided by collateral interactions.
Since publication of the first randomized controlled trial describing rapid antidepressant effects of ketamine, several reports have confirmed the potential utility of this dissociative anesthetic medication for treatment of major depressive episodes, including those associated with bipolar disorder and resistant to other medications and electroconvulsive therapy. These reports have generated several questions with respect to who might respond to ketamine, how, and for how long. To start answering these questions. We used PubMed.gov and ClinicalTrials.gov to perform a systematic review of all available published data on the antidepressant effects of ketamine and of all recently completed, ongoing, and planned studies. To date, 163 patients, primarily with treatment-resistant depression, have participated in case studies, open-label investigations, or controlled trials. All controlled trials have used a within-subject, crossover design with an inactive placebo as the control. Ketamine administration has usually involved an anaesthesiologist infusing a single, subanesthetic, intravenous dose, and required hospitalization for at least 24 hours postinfusion. Response rates in the open-label investigations and controlled trials have ranged from 25% to 85% at 24 hours postinfusion and from 14% to 70% at 72 hours postinfusion. Although adverse effects have generally been mild, some patients have experienced brief changes in blood pressure, heart rate, or respiratory rate. Risk-benefit analyses support further research of ketamine for individuals with severe mood disorders. However, given the paucity of randomized controlled trials, lack of an active placebo, limited data on long-term outcomes, and potential risks, ketamine administration is not recommended outside of the hospital setting.


Fear extinction can be viewed as an inhibitory learning process. This is supported by post-extinction phenomena demonstrating the return of fear, such as reinstatement. Recent work has questioned this account, claiming that extinction initiated immediately after fear acquisition can abolish the return of fear. In the current study, participants were fear conditioned to four different conditioned stimuli (CS) and underwent extinction either immediately or after a 24 h delay. During extinction, we manipulated CS contingency awareness by presenting two of the CSs (one CS+, one CS-) under non-masked conditions and the other two CSs under masked conditions. Compared to delayed extinction, immediate extinction of non-masked CSs promoted less extinction of fear-potentiated startle and shock expectancy ratings and less reinstatement of fear-potentiated startle without affecting shock expectancy ratings. Critically, future research should clarify how the differences between immediate and delayed extinction in within-session extinction modulate the recovery of fear.
Recent years have witnessed a steep increase in cognitive, differential and clinical neuroscience research on the neural basis of intra-subject variability of reaction times. Most theoretical accounts make the implicit assumption that individual differences in intra-subject variability are consistent across sensory modalities, but this remains largely untested. The present EEG study aims to fill this gap by analyzing, for the first time, stimulus- and response-locked single-trial P3bs across visual and auditory sensory modalities, and employing an innovative supra-task latent variables approach. We found unidimensionality of intra-subject variability variables across modalities as well as high correlations between the latency jitter of stimulus- and response-locked P3bs. These findings support the hypothesis that intra-subject variability represents a unitary construct, and that the processes underlying that generalises not only across different cognitive tasks, but also across different sensory modalities.
This task-switching ERP study of 16 young participants investigated whether increased RT slowing on stay trials and faster RTs on switch trials for frequent than infrequent switching are explained by an activation or preparation account. The activation account proposes that task sets are maintained at a higher baseline activation level for frequent switching, necessitating increased task-set updating, as reflected by a larger and/or longer lasting early parietal positivity. The preparation account assumes advance (pre-cue) switch preparation (i.e., task-set reconfiguration), preceding stay and switch trials for frequent switching, as reflected by pre-cue and post-cue late parietal positivities. By and large, the data support the activation account. However, we also found increased, pre-cue task-set updating on frequent stay trials and pre-cue, task-set reconfiguration prior to predictable, frequent switches. These results lead us to propose an extended activation account to explain the effects of switch probability on the executive processes underlying task-switching behavior.
Dementia is one of the most common causes of health problems in the elderly populations of Western industrialized countries. A combined analysis of cerebrospinal fluid-based neurochemical dementia diagnostics biomarkers (amyloid- peptides, total tau and phosphorylated forms of tau) provides sensitivity and specificity in the range of 85% for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, the most common cause of dementia. The alterations occur very early in the course of neurodegeneration, enabling medical follow-up of persons with increased risk of developing dementia. With a growing number of laboratories performing neurochemical dementia diagnostics routinely, it is important to standardize protocols and laboratory performance to enable comparisons of results and their interpretations. Together with the recently published expert guidelines for sample handling and preparation, as well as the interpretation (post-analytical) algorithms developed by experienced centers, ISO 15189 norm provides an extremely useful tool for standardization of neurochemical dementia diagnostics.
Replacing the tissue lost after a stroke potentially provides a new neural substrate to promote recovery. However, significant neurobiological and biotechnological challenges need to be overcome to make this possibility into a reality. Human neural stem cells (hNSCs) can differentiate into mature brain cells, but require a structural support that retains them within the cavity and affords the formation of a de novo tissue. Nevertheless, in our previous work, even after a week, this primitive tissue is void of a vasculature that could sustain its long-term viability. Therefore, tissue engineering strategies are required to develop a vasculature. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is known to promote the proliferation and migration of endothelial cells during angio- and arteriogenesis. VEGF by itself here did not affect viability or differentiation of hNSCs, whereas growing cells on poly(D,L-lactic acid-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) microparticles, with or without VEGF, doubled astrocytic and neuronal differentiation. Secretion of a burst and a sustained delivery of VEGF from the microparticles in vivo attracted endothelial cells from the host into this primitive tissue and in parts established a neovasculature, whereas in other parts endothelial cells were merely interspersed with hNSCs. There was also evidence of a hypervascularization indicating that further work will be required to establish an adequate level of vascularization. It is therefore possible to develop a putative neovasculature within de novo tissue that is forming inside a tissue cavity caused by a stroke.
Energy homoeostasis, a co-ordinated balance of food intake and energy expenditure, is regulated by the CNS (central nervous system). The past decade has witnessed significant advances in our understanding of metabolic processes and brain circuitry which responds to a broad range of neural, nutrient and hormonal signals. Accumulating evidence demonstrates altered synaptic plasticity in the CNS in response to hormone signals. Moreover, emerging observations suggest that synaptic plasticity underlies all brain functions, including the physiological regulation of energy homoeostasis, and that impaired synaptic constellation and plasticity may lead to pathological development and conditions. Here, we summarize the current knowledge on the regulation of postsynaptic receptors such as AMPA (-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid), NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) and GABA (-aminobutyric acid) receptors, and the presynaptic components by hormone signals. A detailed understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms by which hormones regulate energy homoeostasis may lead to novel strategies in treating metabolic disorders.
Techniques for fast, noninvasive measurement of neuronal excitability within a broad area will be of major importance for analyzing and understanding neuronal networks and animal behavior in neuroscience field. In this research, a novel implantable imaging system for fluorescence potentiometry was developed using a complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) technology, and its application to the analysis of cultured brain slices and the brain of a living mouse is described. A CMOS image sensor, small enough to be implanted into the brain, with light-emitting diodes and an absorbing filter was developed to enable real-time fluorescence imaging. The sensor, in conjunction with a voltage-sensitive dye, was certainly able to visualize the potential statuses of neurons and obtain physiological responses in both right and left visual cortex simultaneously by using multiple sensors for the first time. This accomplished multiplanar and multipoint measurement provides multidimensional information from different aspects. The light microsensors do not disturb the animal behavior. This implies that the imaging system can combine functional fluorescence imaging in the brain with behavioral experiments in a freely moving animal.
The communication between neurons is inherently electrical and chemical in nature. In situ, simultaneous acquisition for the dual mode signals is important for neuroscience research. In this paper, the concept of dual mode neural microelectrode array (MEA) sensor was proposed, and a low cost thin film MEA chip for in vitro test was fabricated using standard lithography technology. The sensor incorporates arrayed microelectrodes, a counter electrode and a reference electrode on one glass slide, which is suitable for electrophysiological and electrochemical recording in vitro. Electrophysiological recordings were carried out on acute hippocampus slice. Local field potentials and three different spike firing patterns with the amplitude ranging from  20 V to  60 V were acquired by the arrayed microelectrodes. Electrochemical current response of the microelectrodes to calibrated dopamine solution was tested. A good linear relationship between the current and dopamine concentration was observed, with the detection sensitivity of 4671 A mM(-1)cm(-2) and a correlation coefficient of 0.986. The sensor is novel for its capability of detecting in vitro dual mode neural signals on one single chip.
We constructed a highly responsive ascorbic acid (AA) sensor utilizing over-oxidized polypyrrole (OPPy) and Palladium nanoparticles (PdNPs) composites (OPPy-PdNPs). In the presence of PdNPs, polypyrrole (PPy) was coated on a gold (Au) electrode through cyclic voltammetry (CV) and over-oxidized at a fixed potential in NaOH solution. The PdNPs were characterized using ultraviolet-visible (UV-vis) spectrum and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The surface of OPPy-PdNPs on the Au electrode was investigated using field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM). Results revealed that the OPPy-PdNPs-modified Au electrode (OPPy-PdNPs/Au) has the capacity to catalyze the oxidation of AA by lowering its oxidation potential to 0 V. The OPPy-PdNPs/Au electrode exhibited 2 different linear concentration ranges. In the low concentration range (1-520 M), OPPy-PdNPs/Au exhibited a direct linear relation with current responses and had high sensitivity (570 A mM(-1)cm(-2)) and a high correlation coefficient (0.995). In contrast, in the higher concentration range (120-1600 M), the relationship between current responses and concentration of AA can be represented by a two-parameter sigmoidal equation. In addition, the sensor exhibited a short response time (less than 2s) and a very low limit of detection of 1 M. The electrochemical AA sensor constructed in this study was simple, inexpensive, reproducible, sensitive, and resistant to interference. Thus, the proposed sensor has great potential for detecting AA in complex biosystems and can be applied in various fields, particularly neuroscience.
The central nervous system is derived from the neural plate, which undergoes a series of complex morphogenetic events resulting in formation of the neural tube in a process known as neurulation. The cellular behaviors driving neurulation in the cranial region involve forces generated by the neural tissue itself as well as the surrounding epithelium and mesenchyme. Of interest, the cranial mesenchyme underlying the neural plate undergoes stereotypical rearrangements hypothesized to drive elevation of the neural folds. As the neural folds rise, the hyaluronate-rich extracellular matrix greatly expands resulting in increased space between individual cranial mesenchyme cells. Based on inhibitor studies, expansion of the extracellular matrix has been implicated in driving neural fold elevation; however, because the surrounding neural and epidermal ectoderm were also affected by inhibitor exposure, these studies are inconclusive. Similarly, treatment of neurulating embryos with teratogenic doses of retinoic acid results in altered organization of the cranial mesenchyme, but alterations in surrounding tissues are also observed. The strongest evidence for a critical role for the cranial mesenchyme in neural fold elevation comes from studies of genes expressed exclusively in the cranial mesenchyme that when mutated result in exencephaly associated with abnormal organization of the cranial mesenchyme. Twist is the best studied of these and is expressed in both the paraxial mesoderm and neural crest derived cranial mesenchyme. In this article, we review the evidence implicating the cranial mesenchyme in providing a driving force for neural fold elevation to evaluate whether there are sufficient data to support this hypothesis.


A professional boxer developed an acute subdural haematoma after boxing sparring. Despite timely surgical decompression, he had a poor overall outcome predominantly from a delayed brainstem haematoma. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to elucidate the pathophysiology of the patients' injury and clinical condition.
Superior oblique myokymia (SOM) is a rare disorder with an unclear pathogenesis. We describe a first reported case of chronic disabling SOM in association with a cerebellopontine angle arachnoid cyst, who had a gradual and eventually complete symptomatic resolution 8 months following cyst marsupialisation. Among other aetiologies, SOM may therefore be due to abnormal CSF flow dynamics resulting in structural compromise of the nerve.

P/Q-type calcium channels are high-voltage-gated calcium channels contributing to vesicle release at synaptic terminals. A number of neurological diseases have been attributed to malfunctioning of P/Q channels, including ataxia, migraine and Alzheimer's disease. To date, only two specific P/Q-type blockers are known: both are peptides deriving from the spider venom of Agelenopsis aperta, -agatoxins. Other peptidic calcium channel blockers with activity at P/Q channels are available, albeit with less selectivity. A number of low molecular weight compounds modulate P/Q-type currents with different characteristics, and some exhibit a peculiar bidirectional pattern of modulation. Interestingly, there are a number of therapeutics in clinical use, which also show P/Q channel activity. Because selectivity as well as the exact mode of action is different between all P/Q-type channel modulators, the interpretation of clinical and experimental data is complicated and needs a comprehensive understanding of their target profile. The situation is further complicated by the fact that information on potency varies vastly in the literature, which may be the result of different experimental systems, conditions or the splice variants of the P/Q channel. This review attempts to provide a comprehensive overview of the compounds available that affect the P/Q-type channel and should help with the interpretation of results of in vitro experiments and animal models. It also aims to explain some clinical observations by implementing current knowledge about P/Q channel modulation of therapeutically used non-selective drugs. Chances and challenges of the development of P/Q channel-selective molecules are discussed.


Cortical inflammatory lesions have been correlated with disability and cortical atrophy in multiple sclerosis. The extent to which cortical lesion load is associated with longer-term physical and cognitive disability in different multiple sclerosis phenotypes has not yet been investigated. Thus, a 5-year prospective longitudinal study was carried on in a large group of patients with multiple sclerosis. Three hundred and twelve consecutive patients suffering from multiple sclerosis (157 relapsing remitting, 35 paediatric, 45 benign, 44 primary progressive and 31 secondary progressive) were enrolled in a 5-year prospective clinical and neuroimaging study. Several magnetic resonance parameters (including cortical lesion number and volume, contrast-enhancing cortical lesions and grey matter atrophy) were analysed to find associations with clinical and cognitive outcomes. Patients with high cortical lesion load had higher Expanded Disability Status Scale increase (median = 1.5; range = 0-3) during the study than both patients with low cortical lesion load (median = 1.0; range = 1-3, P &lt; 0.001) and without cortical lesions (median = 0.5; range = -1 to 2, P &lt; 0.001). Compared with clinically stable patients, 101 (32.4%) patients showing clinical progression at 5 years had the highest rate of cortical lesion accumulation (P &lt; 0.001). Stepwise regression analysis revealed significant and independent contributions from age ( = 0.55), cortical lesion volume ( = 0.58), T(2) white matter lesion volume ( = 0.34) and grey matter fraction ( = 0.42) as predictors (final model with r(2 )= 0.657, P &lt; 0.001) of Expanded Disability Status Scale change. Disease duration ( = 0.52, P &lt; 0.001), cortical lesion volume ( = 0.67, P &lt; 0.001), grey matter fraction ( = 0.56, P &lt; 0.001) and T(2) white matter lesion volume ( = 0.31, P = 0.040) at baseline were found to be independent predictors of cognitive status at the end of the study. While confirming the relevance of cortical pathology in all multiple sclerosis phenotypes, but benign, our study suggests that grey matter and white matter changes in multiple sclerosis occur, at least, partly independently, and that grey matter, more than white matter, damage is associated with physical and cognitive disability progression. Thus, the combination of grey and white matter parameters gives a more comprehensive view of multiple sclerosis pathology and allows a better understanding of the progressive phase of the disease, which, however, seems more related to cortical damage than to subcortical white matter changes.
Behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia can present with episodic memory deficits as severe as those in Alzheimer's disease. Little is known of the integrity of grey matter areas and white matter tracts of the Papez memory circuit in these diseases. The integrity of the Papez circuit (hippocampus, fornix, mammillary bodies, anterior thalamus, cingulate cortex) was investigated in vivo and at post-mortem in behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease cohorts using voxel-based morphometry, diffusion tensor imaging and manual volumetric tracing. Our findings indicate that behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease show similar degrees of hippocampal atrophy in vivo, but patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia show greater hippocampal atrophy at post-mortem, with the frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 inclusions subtype being particularly affected. Cingulate cortex findings show an expected atrophy pattern with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia being affected more anteriorly and Alzheimer's disease showing more posterior atrophy. More importantly, subcortical Papez circuit regions (fornix and anterior thalamus) were affected in behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia only, with atrophy in these regions determining the degree of amnesia in behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia. Hippocampal atrophy does not appear to be an efficient diagnostic marker for underlying behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia or Alzheimer's disease pathology, although for behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia, episodic memory deficits in conjunction with marked hippocampal atrophy emerge as potential biomarkers for frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 inclusions pathology. Sub-regions of the Papez circuit were differentially affected in behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease with subcortical regions determining the degree of episodic memory deficits in behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia. Subcortical atrophy should be taken into account when establishing whether the severe amnesia observed in a patient is likely to be due to behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia or Alzheimer's disease pathology.
This study used magnetoencephalography to record oscillatory activity in a group of 17 patients with chronic tinnitus. Two methods, residual inhibition and residual excitation, were used to bring about transient changes in spontaneous tinnitus intensity in order to measure dynamic tinnitus correlates in individual patients. In residual inhibition, a positive correlation was seen between tinnitus intensity and both delta/theta (6/14 patients) and gamma band (8/14 patients) oscillations in auditory cortex, suggesting an increased thalamocortical input and cortical gamma response, respectively, associated with higher tinnitus states. Conversely, 4/4 patients exhibiting residual excitation demonstrated an inverse correlation between perceived tinnitus intensity and auditory cortex gamma oscillations (with no delta/theta changes) that cannot be explained by existing models. Significant oscillatory power changes were also identified in a variety of cortical regions, most commonly midline lobar regions in the default mode network, cerebellum, insula and anterior temporal lobe. These were highly variable across patients in terms of areas and frequency bands involved, and in direction of power change. We suggest a model based on a local circuit function of cortical gamma-band oscillations as a process of mutual inhibition that might suppress abnormal cortical activity in tinnitus. The work implicates auditory cortex gamma-band oscillations as a fundamental intrinsic mechanism for attenuating phantom auditory perception.
Children with a history of a prolonged febrile seizure show signs of acute hippocampal injury on magnetic resonance imaging. In addition, animal studies have shown that adult rats who suffered febrile seizures during development reveal memory impairments. Together, these lines of evidence suggest that memory impairments related to hippocampal injury may be evident in human children after prolonged febrile seizures. The current study addressed this question by investigating memory abilities in 26 children soon after a prolonged febrile seizure (median: 37.5 days) and compared their results to those of 37 normally developing children. Fifteen patients were reassessed at a mean of 12.5 months after their first assessment to determine the transiency of any observed effects. We used the visual paired comparison task to test memory abilities in our group, as this task does not depend on verbal abilities and also because successful performance on the task has been proven to depend on the presence of functional hippocampi. Our findings show that patients perform as well as controls in the absence of a delay between the learning phase and the memory test, suggesting that both groups are able to form representations of the presented stimulus. However, after a 5-min delay, patients' recognition memory is not different from chance, and comparison of patients and controls points to an accelerated forgetting rate in the prolonged febrile seizure group. The patients' performance was not related to the time elapsed from the acute event or the duration of the prolonged febrile seizure, suggesting that the observed effect is not a by-product of the seizure itself or a delayed effect of medication administered to terminate the seizure. By contrast, performance was related to hippocampal size; participants with the smallest mean hippocampal volumes revealed the biggest drop in performance from the immediate to the delayed paradigm. At follow-up, children were still showing deficiencies in recognizing a face after a 5-min delay. Similarly, this suggests that the observed memory impairments are not a transient effect of the prolonged febrile seizures. This is the first report of such impairments in humans, and it is clinically significant given the links between mesial temporal sclerosis and prolonged febrile seizures. The persistence of these impairments a year onwards signals the potential benefits of intervention in these children who run the risk of developing episodic memory deficits in later childhood.
The primary progressive form of multiple sclerosis is characterized by accrual of neurological dysfunction from disease onset without remission and it is still a matter of debate whether this disease course results from different pathogenetic mechanisms compared with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis. Inflammation in the leptomeninges has been identified as a key feature of secondary progressive multiple sclerosis and may contribute to the extensive cortical pathology that accompanies progressive disease. Our aim was to investigate the extent of perivascular and meningeal inflammation in primary progressive multiple sclerosis in order to understand their contribution to the pathogenetic mechanisms associated with cortical pathology. A comprehensive immunohistochemical analysis was performed on post-mortem brain tissue from 26 cases with primary progressive multiple sclerosis. A variable extent of meningeal immune cell infiltration was detected and more extensive demyelination and neurite loss in the cortical grey matter was found in cases exhibiting an increased level of meningeal inflammation. However, no tertiary lymphoid-like structures were found. Profound microglial activation and reduction in neuronal density was observed in both the lesions and normal appearing grey matter compared with control cortex. Furthermore, cases with primary progressive multiple sclerosis with extensive meningeal immune cell infiltration exhibited a more severe clinical course, including a shorter disease duration and younger age at death. Our data suggest that generalized diffuse meningeal inflammation and the associated inflammatory milieu in the subarachnoid compartment plays a role in the pathogenesis of cortical grey matter lesions and an increased rate of clinical progression in primary progressive multiple sclerosis.
Although bereavement is associated with increased morbidity and mortality in the surviving spouse, some widow(er)s remain healthy. Genetic variability in expression of inflammatory markers in response to stress may be the key to this observation. The present study compares bereaved vs. married/partnered older adults, investigating the impact of bereavement status, pro-inflammatory cytokine single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on circulating markers of inflammation and hypothesizing a gene by environment (GxE) effect. The study sample included 64 older adults, of which 36 were widow(er)s. Circulating levels of inflammatory markers IL-6, IL-1RA and sTNFRII were measured. Participants were genotyped for SNPs in the IL-6 gene (IL-6 -174 and -572), the IL-1 gene (IL-1 -511), and TNF- gene (TNF- -308). Grief severity was assessed with the Inventory of Complicated Grief. Bereaved participants had higher circulating levels of IL-1RA and IL-6. This increase could not be explained by pro-inflammatory genotype frequency differences, or Complicated Grief diagnosis. However, a GxE effect with the IL-6 -174 SNP moderated individual vulnerability to higher circulating levels of inflammation resulting from bereavement exposure. These results suggest a possible mechanism for the increase in morbidity and mortality in the surviving spouse. Genetic variability interacts with an environmental stressor, leading to increased inflammatory markers in genetically susceptible subjects only. For these patients, clinical interventions for bereavement-related stressor reduction might be crucial for overall health.
Epidemiological evidence for the inflammatory hypothesis of depression is largely cross-sectional; people with depression have elevated levels of circulating pro-inflammatory markers compared to people without depression. The limitation of cross sectional research is the potential for extraneous factors to influence observed effects. The purpose of this meta-analysis of cross-sectional studies of interleukin(IL)-6 and IL-10 in people with and without depression is to provide a targeted analysis of potential moderator factors relating to the diagnosis of depression and to physical and psychiatric comorbidity. Electronic searches of Embase and Medline databases were conducted using subject headings &quot;interleukin-6&quot; or &quot;interleukin-10&quot; and those relating to depression. Studies were included if they measured circulating marker levels in serum or plasma in a group of people with and without depressive symptoms (99 studies for IL-6, 19 studies for IL-10). IL-6 was elevated in depressed compared to non-depressed groups (d = 0.46, 99% CI 0.34 to 0.58, I(2) = 85.9%). This effect was larger in subgroups where depressive disorders were diagnosed compared to those with only depressive symptoms via standardized inventory, and subgroups where participants were recruited from inpatient or outpatient settings compared to the general community. The effect was also larger in those who were not selected for a particular comorbidity compared to those selected for cardiovascular disease. IL-10 effect size was not significant (d = -0.31, 99% CI -0.95 to 0.32, I(2) = 94.1%) which was not accounted for in subgroup analyses or meta-regression, indicating there is not a global elevation in cytokines. These data highlight that comorbidity and behavioral aspects of depression need to be measured and controlled in future prospective and experimental research testing the inflammatory hypothesis of depression.
Research on the neural substrates of morality is a recently emerging field in neuroscience. The anatomical structures implicated to play a role in morality include the frontal lobe, temporal lobe, cingulate gyrus, amygdala, hippocampus, and basal ganglia. In particular, the orbitofrontal or ventromedial prefrontal areas are thought to be involved in decision-making, and damage to these areas is likely to cause decision-making deficits and/or problems in impulsive control, which may lead to antisocial and less moral behaviors. In this article, we focus on case presentation and theory development with regard to moral judgment. First, we discuss notable cases and syndromes developing after orbitofrontal/ventromedial prefrontal damage, such as the famous cases of Gage and EVR, cases of childhood orbitofrontal damage, forced collectionism, squalor syndrome, and hypermoral syndrome. We then review the proposed theories and neuropsychological mechanisms underlying decision-making deficits following orbitofrontal/ventromedial prefrontal damage, including the somatic-marker hypothesis, reversal learning, preference judgment, theory of mind, and moral dilemma.
Learned associations between the rewarding effect of addictive drugs and drug-paired contexts resist extinction and contribute to the high rate of relapse observed in drug addicts. Although it has been shown that extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) activity in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) is modulated by the primary rewarding effect of opiates, little is known as to its role in the morphine-associated contextual memory. In the present study, we investigated the ERK1/2 activity indicated by phosphorylated ERK1/2 (pERK1/2) levels in rats using a morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) procedure. Our results showed that, in rats that had undergone morphine conditioning, after testing (expression phase) pERK1/2 in the NAc shell but not the NAc core or the adjacent caudate putamen was specifically increased. pERK1/2 levels in several other parts of the brain involved in drug-seeking, such as the medial prefrontal cortex, dorsal hippocampus, and basolateral amygdala, showed no significant changes. A significant positive correlation was observed between the elevated pERK1/2 level in the NAc shell and the degree of conditioned preference for morphine-associated contexts. Bilateral injection of an inhibitor of ERK activation into the NAc shell attenuated ERK1/2 phosphorylation and prevented the expression of morphine CPP, but injections into the core did not. Selective inhibition of NR2B-containing NMDA receptor in the NAc shell by ifenprodil prevented CPP expression and down-regulated local ERK1/2 phosphorylation. These findings collectively suggest that recall of morphine-associated contextual memory depends specifically upon ERK1/2 activation in the NAc shell and that ERK1/2 phosphorylation is regulated by the upstream NR2B-containing NMDA receptor.
This study investigated the role of amygdala H(1) receptors in state-dependent memory deficits induced by l-histidine (LH). Tests using an elevated plus-maze (EPM) were performed on two consecutive days: Trial 1 (T1) and Trial 2 (T2). Before each trial, mice were intraperitoneally (IP) injected with LH (500mg/kg). Two hours later, they were microinjected with the H(1) receptor antagonist, chlorpheniramine (CPA 0.016, 0.052, or 0.16 nmol/0.1l), or saline (SAL) into the amygdala and submitted to the EPM. LH-CPA did not affect trial 1 performances in the EPM, which indicated that these drugs did not affect anxiety. Emotional memory, as revealed by a reduction in open arm exploration between both trials, was present in the SAL-SAL groups as well as in the SAL-CPA groups for the lower doses of CPA (0.016 and 0.052nmol). On the contrary, neither the LH-SAL group nor the LH-CPA groups exhibited this decrease in open arm activity between both trials, which reveals that LH impaired emotional memory. While intra-amygdalar CPA did not interact with LH effect, it impaired per se the emotional memory performances at the highest dose (0.16nmol). No significant changes were observed in the number of enclosed arm entries (EAE), an EPM index of general exploratory activity. These results may be attributed to a combined effect in the different nucleus of the amygdala. Taken together, these results suggest that the H(1) receptors in the amygdala are not implicated in anxiety-like behaviors but are involved in emotional states induced by the T1/T2 EPM protocol in mice.


Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a noninvasive method of modulating cortical excitability. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of short-duration tDCS (1.6 seconds per trial) on memory performance, and whether the effects were affected by stimulation administered early or late in a trial. Participants memorize words under anodal and cathodal tDCS to the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in two separate sessions in no-stimulation, early stimulation, and late stimulation trials. Early stimulation occurred during word presentation, whereas late stimulation occurred after word presentation. Early anodal tDCS led to significantly better accuracy and speed in a subsequent recognition test compared to anodal late or no-stimulation conditions. Early cathodal tDCS, on the other hand, led to significantly worse accuracy and speed in a subsequent recognition testcompared with cathodal late or no-stimulation conditions. The results of this study suggest that short-duration tDCS can modulate memory performance and highlight the importance of period of stimulation.
The vestibular system is unique among the senses because of the entirely multisensory nature of its cortical projections. Neuroanatomical and neuroimaging studies show that vestibular stimulation activates somatosensory areas, and particularly the so-called parieto-insular vestibular cortex (PIVC) in the monkey, while deactivating visual areas. Further, recent psychophysical studies showed that vestibular stimulation facilitates detection of electrocutaneous stimuli, suggesting a vestibular-somatosensory perceptual interaction. However, the functional mechanism underlying this perceptual facilitation remains unclear. We therefore recorded somatosensory potentials evoked by left median nerve stimulation, before and immediately after left cold caloric vestibular stimulation (CVS), in a small-scale study of eight healthy volunteers. CVS selectively enhanced the N80 component recorded over both ipsilateral and contralateral somatosensory areas, without significantly affecting earlier or later components. Interestingly, the N80 component has been localised to the parietal operculum, which includes the human homologue of the monkey PIVC, and is thus a prime neuroanatomical candidate for vestibular-somatosensory convergence. As a control, we measured visual evoked potentials to reversing checkerboard patterns and found no effects of vestibular stimulation. This rules out explanations based on indirect effects of vestibular modulations, such as general arousal or supramodal spatial attention. We believe our results provide the first clue linking brain structure to function for the interaction between vestibular and somatosensory systems.
The spotlight on borderline personality disorder (BPD) has been growing in recent years, with the number of papers discussing potential causes and triggers of the disorder rapidly on the increase. Also on the increase, though still lacking sufficient numbers to produce well-supported hypotheses, are studies employing neuroimaging techniques as investigative tools in BPD. In this review, we investigate the current state and findings of neuroimaging studies in BPD, focusing in particular, on the studies examining structural, functional, and neurometabolic abnormalities in the disorder. Some suspected trends in the data are highlighted, including reductions in the hippocampi and amygdalae of BPD patients compared to healthy controls, exaggerated amygdala activity in BPD patients when confronted with emotion-related stimulus, and negative correlations between increases in left amygdalar creatine and reductions in amygdalar volume, reductions in absolute N-acetylaspartate concentration in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of BPD patients, and increases in glutamate concentration in the anterior cingulate cortices of BPD patients. We also discuss the limitations of some of the current studies including hindrances due to sample effects and techniques used and the potential of future neuroimaging research in BPD.
This study explored the use of non-radioactive 2-deoxy glucose (2DG)-labeled magnetonanoparticles (MNP) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to detect functional activity during rest, peripheral stimulation, and epileptic seizures, in animal models. Non-radioactive 2DG was covalently attached to magnetonanoparticles composed of iron oxide and dextran and intravenous (tail) injections were performed. 2DG-MNP was injected in resting and stimulated nave rodents and the subsequent MRI was compared to published (14)C-2DG autoradiography data. Reproducibility and statistical significance was established in one studied model. Negative contrast enhancement (NCE) in acute seizures and chronic models of epilepsy were investigated. MRI NCE due to 2DG-MNP particles was compared to that of plain (unconjugated) MNP in one animal. NCE due to 2DG-MNP particles at 3T, which is approved for human use, was also investigated. Histology showed presence of MNP (following intravenous injection) in the brain tissues of resting nave animal. 2DG-MNP intraparenchymal uptake was visible on MRI and histology. The locations of NCE agreed with published results of 2DG autoradiography in resting and stimulated animals and epileptic rats. Localization of epileptogenicity was confirmed by subsequent depth-electrode EEG (iEEG). Non-radioactive 2DG-MNP can cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and may accurately localize areas of increased activity. Although, this proof-of-principle study involves only a limited number of animals, and much more research and quantification are necessary to demonstrate that 2DG-MNP, or MNPs conjugated with other ligands, could eventually be used to image localized cerebral function with MRI in humans, this MNP-MRI approach is potentially applicable to the use of many bioactive molecules as ligands for imaging normal and abnormal localized cerebral functions.

It has long been argued that cell cycle regulators such as cyclins, cyclin-dependent kinases and their inhibitors affect the fate of neuronal progenitor cells. Recently, we identified that cyclin D2, which localizes at the basal tip of the radial glial cell (i.e., the neural progenitor in the developing neocortex), functions to give differential cell fates to its daughter cells just after cell division. This basally biased localization is due to transportation of cyclin D2 mRNA via its unique cis-regulatory sequence and local translation into cyclin D2 protein at the basal endfoot. During division of the neural progenitor cells, cyclin D2 protein is inherited by the daughter cell that retain the basal process, resulting in asymmetric distribution of cyclin D2 protein between the two daughter cells. Cyclin D2 is similarly localized in the human fetal cortical primordium, suggesting a common mechanism for the maintenance of neural progenitors and a possible scenario in evolution of primate brains. Here we introduce our recent findings and discuss how cyclin D2 functions in mammalian brain development and evolution.
Regulated removal of proteins and organelles by autophagy-lysosome system is critical for muscle homeostasis. Excessive activation of autophagy-dependent degradation contributes to muscle atrophy and cachexia. Conversely, inhibition of autophagy causes accumulation of protein aggregates and abnormal organelles, leading to myofiber degeneration and myopathy. Defects in lysosomal function result in severe muscle disorders such as Pompe (glycogen storage disease type II (GSDII)) disease, characterized by an accumulation of autophagosomes. However, whether autophagy is detrimental or not in muscle function of Pompe patients is unclear. We studied infantile and late-onset GSDII patients and correlated impairment of autophagy with muscle wasting. We also monitored autophagy in patients who received recombinant -glucosidase. Our data show that infantile and late-onset patients have different levels of autophagic flux, accumulation of p62-positive protein aggregates and expression of atrophy-related genes. Although the infantile patients show impaired autophagic function, the late-onset patients display an interesting correlation among autophagy impairment, atrophy and disease progression. Moreover, reactivation of autophagy in vitro contributes to acid -glucosidase maturation in both healthy and diseased myotubes. Together, our data suggest that autophagy protects myofibers from disease progression and atrophy in late-onset patients.

The use of fluorescence microscopy is central to cell biology in general, and essential to many fields (e.g., membrane traffic) that rely upon it to identify cellular locations of molecules under study and the extent to which they co-localize with others. Rigorous localization or co-localization data require quantitative image analyses that can vary widely between fields and laboratories. While most published data use two-dimensional images, there is an increasing appreciation for the advantages of collecting three-dimensional data sets. These include the ability to evaluate the entire cell and avoidance of focal plane bias. This is particularly important when imaging and quantifying changes in organelles with irregular borders and which vary in appearance between cells in a population, e.g., the Golgi. We describe a method developed for quantifying changes in signal intensity of one protein within any three-dimensional structure, defined by the presence of a different marker. We use as examples of this method the quantification of adaptor recruitment to transmembrane protein cargos at the Golgi though it can be directly applied to any site in the cell. Together, these advantages facilitate rigorous statistical testing of differences between conditions, despite variations in organelle structure, and we believe that this method of quantification of fluorescence data can be productively applied to a wide array of experimental questions.
Skin acts as a barrier between the environment and internal organs and performs functions that are critical for the preservation of body homeostasis. In mammals, a complex network of circadian clocks and oscillators adapts physiology and behavior to environmental changes by generating circadian rhythms. These rhythms are induced in the central pacemaker and peripheral tissues by similar transcriptional-translational feedback loops involving clock genes. In this work, we investigated the presence of functional oscillators in the human skin by studying kinetics of clock gene expression in epidermal and dermal cells originating from the same donor and compared their characteristics. Primary cultures of fibroblasts, keratinocytes, and melanocytes were established from an abdominal biopsy and expression of clock genes following dexamethasone synchronization was assessed by qPCR. An original mathematical method was developed to analyze simultaneously up to nine clock genes. By fitting the oscillations to a common period, the phase relationships of the genes could be determined accurately. We thereby show the presence of functional circadian machinery in each cell type. These clockworks display specific periods and phase relationships between clock genes, suggesting regulatory mechanisms that are particular to each cell type. Taken together, our data demonstrate that skin has a complex circadian organization. Oscillators are present not only in fibroblasts but also in epidermal keratinocytes and melanocytes and are likely to act in coordination to drive rhythmic functions within the skin.
Wnt/-catenin signaling has a well-established role in the development of the central nervous system (CNS), and recent evidence is extending this role to include the regulation of adult hippocampal function, including neurogenesis within the dentate gyrus. While the neuroanatomical expression pattern of many canonical Wnt signaling components have been investigated, the sites of signal integration and functional downstream -catenin activation remain comparatively less characterized in the adult CNS. Using two independent transgenic -catenin-activated LacZ reporter mouse lines (BatGal and ins-TopGal), we demonstrate that Wnt/-catenin signaling is active in discrete regions of the adult mouse CNS. Intriguingly, BatGal mice exhibit a broad pattern of reporter expression in the CNS, while expression in ins-TopGal mice is more restricted. Further investigation of these two lines reveals temporal differences in -catenin-activated reporter expression during neurogenesis within the adult hippocampus. Ins-TopGal mice display peaks of Wnt/-catenin-activated reporter expression during early and later stages of neurogenesis suggesting Wnt/-catenin signaling plays an important role during both progenitor cell amplification as well as neuronal maturation, integration, and/or maintenance; however, results from BatGal mice are not as convincing. Thus our data using ins-TopGal mice are consistent with the idea that Wnt signaling plays diverse roles during adult hippocampal neurogenesis and support the idea that multiple transgenic reporter lines must be rigorously compared during scientific investigations.

Some of the most striking symptoms after prefrontal damage are reduction of behavioral initiation and inability to suppress automatic behaviors. However, the relation between these 2 symptoms and the location of the lesions that cause them are not well understood. This study investigates the cerebral correlates of initiation and suppression abilities assessed by the Hayling Sentence Completion Test, using the human lesion approach. Forty-five patients with focal brain lesions and 110 healthy matched controls were examined. We combined a classical group approach with 2 voxel-based lesion methods. The results show several critical prefrontal regions to Hayling Test performance, associated with either common or differential impairment in &quot;initiation&quot; and &quot;suppression&quot; conditions. A crucial role for medial rostral prefrontal cortex (BA 10) in the initiation condition was shown by both group and lesion-mapping methods. A posterior inferolateral lesion provoked both initiation and suppression slowness, although to different degrees. An orbitoventral region was associated with errors in the suppression condition. These findings are important for clinical practice since they indicate that the brain regions required to perform a widely used and sensitive neuropsychological test but also shed light on the regions crucial for distinct components of adaptative behaviors, in particular, rostral prefrontal cortex.
The canonical Wnt/Wingless pathway is implicated in regulating cell proliferation and cell differentiation of neural stem/progenitor cells. Depending on the context, -Catenin, a key mediator of the Wnt signaling pathway, may regulate either cell proliferation or differentiation. Here, we show that -Catenin signaling regulates the differentiation of neural stem/progenitor cells in the presence of the -Catenin interactor Homeodomain interacting protein kinase-1 gene (Hipk1). On one hand, Hipk1 is expressed at low levels during the entire embryonic forebrain development, allowing -Catenin to foster proliferation and to inhibit differentiation of neural stem/progenitor cells. On the other hand, Hipk1 expression dramatically increases in neural stem/progenitor cells, residing within the subventricular zone (SVZ), at the time when the canonical Wnt signaling induces cell differentiation. Analysis of mouse brains electroporated with Hipk1, and the active form of -Catenin reveals that coexpression of both genes induces proliferating neural stem/progenitor cells to escape the cell cycle. Moreover, in SVZ derive neurospheres cultures, the overexpression of both genes increases the expression of the cell-cycle inhibitor P16Ink4. Therefore, our data confirm that the -Catenin signaling plays a dual role in controlling cell proliferation/differentiation in the brain and indicate that Hipk1 is the crucial interactor able to revert the outcome of -Catenin signaling in neural stem/progenitor cells of adult germinal niches.
Neuroscience explanations of conscious access focus on neural events elicited by stimuli. In contrast, here, we used the attentional blink paradigm in combination with event-related brain potentials to examine whether the ongoing state of the brain before a stimulus can determine both conscious access and the poststimulus neural events associated with consciousness. Participants were required to detect 2 target letters from digit distractors while their brain activity was being recorded. Trials were classified based on whether the secondcritical target (T2) was detected. We found that T2-detection was predetermined by brain activity prior to the onset of the stimulation stream. Specifically, T2-detected trials were predicated by a frontocentral positive going deflection that started more than 200 ms before the stream began. Accurate T2 detection was also accompanied by enhanced poststimulus neural activity, as reflected by a larger P3b component. Furthermore, prestimulus and poststimulus markers of T2-detection were highly correlated with one another. We therefore argue that conscious experiences are shaped by potentially random fluctuations in neural activity. Overall, the results reveal that conscious access is underpinned by an important relationship involving predictive prestimulus neural activity and responsive poststimulus brain activity.
Variation in responsiveness to bitter-tasting compounds has been associated with differences in alcohol consumption. One strong genetic determinant of variation in bitter taste sensitivity is alleles of the TAS2R gene family, which encode chemosensory receptors sensitive to a diverse array of natural and synthetic compounds. Members of the TAS2R family, when expressed in the gustatory system, function as bitter taste receptors. To better understand the relationship between TAS2R function and alcohol consumption, we asked if TAS2R variants are associated with measures of alcohol consumption in a head and neck cancer patient cohort. Factors associated with increased alcohol intake are of strong interest to those concerned with decreasing the incidence of cancers of oral and pharyngeal structures. We found a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) located within the TAS2R13 gene (rs1015443 [C1040T, Ser259Asn]), which showed a significant association with measures of alcohol consumption assessed via the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT). Analyses with other SNPs in close proximity to rs1015443 suggest that this locus is principally responsible for the association. Thus, our results provide additional support to the emerging hypothesis that genetic variation in bitter taste receptors can impact upon alcohol consumption.
Increasing evidence from retrospective and prospective studies is beginning to validate criteria to identify individuals at high risk for developing bipolar disorder or schizophrenia. In parallel, intervention trials are evaluating the efficacy and tolerability of pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic approaches for the treatment of subthreshold and possibly prodromal presentations in these high-risk populations with the ultimate objective of mitigating illness progression. This article reviews current evidence for candidate interventions for high-risk individuals to guide future research in this rapidly emerging field. A clinical vignette describing antidepressant-induced manic symptoms in an adolescent with a family history of bipolar disorder is provided.
The hypothalamus is crucially involved in the circadian timing of the sleep-wake rhythm, yet also accommodates the most important thermoregulatory neuronal network. We have shown before that adults with pituitary insufficiency and history of chiasm compression due to a tumor with suprasellar extension fall asleep later and sleep shorter than those without such history and presumed hypothalamic involvement. To solidify the hypothesized link between vigilance and thermoregulation by the hypothalamus, we aimed to test the hypothesis that the presumed hypothalamic impairment in these patients also affects skin temperature and its association with sleep onset. In a case-control study of 50 patients (54.7  14.5 yrs of age, 30 males) with pituitary insufficiency, 33 of whom had a history of chiasm compression, ambulatory distal and proximal skin temperatures were assessed continuously for 24 h. Sleep parameters were assessed via questionnaire. Group differences in mean skin temperature, calculated over the wake and sleep periods separately, and group differences in the strength of association between pre-sleep skin temperature and sleep onset latency were compared. Results showed that patients with a medical history of chiasm compression had lower proximal skin temperature during the day (34.1C  .7C vs. 34.6C  .7C, p =.045). Additionally, the typical association between sleep onset latency and pre-sleep distal-to-proximal skin temperature gradient was absent in these patients (r =-.01, p =.96), whereas it was unimpaired in those without chiasm compression (r =-.61, p =.02). Thus, patients with history of chiasm compression show impaired skin temperature regulation in association with disturbed sleep. The findings support the hypothesis that a medical history of chiasm compression affects hypothalamic regulation of both vigilance and temperature, possibly by chronically affecting relevant nuclei, including the ventrolateral preoptic area and anterior hypothalamic preoptic area.

In recent years, there has been an increasing line of research dedicated to the investigation of the default mode network (DMN) of the brain and resting state networks. However, the mental activity of the DMN has not been rigorously assessed to date. The specific aims of the current study were 2-fold: First, we sought to determine whether the current source density (CSD) levels in the DMN would correspond to other neuroimaging techniques. Second, we sought to understand the subjective mental activity of the DMN during baseline recordings. This study was conducted with 63 nonclinical participants, 34 female and 29 males with a mean age of 19.2 years (standard deviation = 2.0). The participants were recorded in 8 conditions. First, 4-minute eyes-closed baseline (ECB) and eyes-opened baseline (EOB) were obtained. The participants then completed 3 assessment instruments and 3 image conditions while the electroencephalography (EEG) was continuously recorded. Participants completed subjective reports for baselines and image conditions. These were rated by 3 independent raters and compared for reliability using a random effects model with an absolute agreement definition. The mean CSD between all conditions differed significantly, in many but not all regions of interest in the DMN. Interestingly, as suggested by other studies, the DMN appears preferential to self-relevant, self-specific, or self-perceptive processes. The reliability analyses show  for interrater agreement for ECB at .95 and EOB at .96. The subjective reports obtained from the participants regarding the mental activities employed during baseline recordings correspond to attentional and self-regulatory processes, which may also implicate the resting state or DMN as playing a direct role in the maintenance of a complex behavior (eg, being still, attending, and self-regulating). Thus, attention and self-regulation constitute the phenomenology of the resting state (DMN) in this study. The results also demonstrate that EEG CSD is a useful method to examine the DMN during concept-specific tasks to elucidate the neural activity associated with these concepts. Standardized low-resolution electromagnetic tomography (sLORETA) can localize to 5 mm(3), which is comparable to the findings in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). However, sLORETA can provide data about the difference in activity between groups, individuals, or populations which in many cases fMRI cannot provide.
Survival of all animals depends on an accurate representation of the world, and an organism must be capable of prioritizing and responding to potentially hazardous conditions. This ability is dependent on nociception, the sensory process allowing animals to detect and avoid potentially harmful stimuli. Nociception is the sensory process that results in the subjective experience of 'pain' in humans. Because of its vital and broad role in animal biology, pain/nociception is a complex, whole-body physiological process that is under stringent evolutionary pressure. Here, we discuss the utility of Drosophila melanogaster as an emerging model organism for studying the conserved genetics of nociception, particularly with respect to recently developed high-throughput Drosophila 'pain' paradigms.
The Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network (DIAN) is a collaborative effort of international Alzheimer disease (AD) centers that are conducting a multifaceted prospective biomarker study in individuals at-risk for autosomal dominant AD (ADAD). DIAN collects comprehensive information and tissue in accordance with standard protocols from asymptomatic and symptomatic ADAD mutation carriers and their non-carrier family members to determine the pathochronology of clinical, cognitive, neuroimaging, and fluid biomarkers of AD. This article describes the structure, implementation, and underlying principles of DIAN, as well as the demographic features of the initial DIAN cohort.
Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors (DNTs) are usually located within the supratentorial cortex, often in the temporal lobe and they are frequently associated with intractable complex partial seizures. DNTs in extracortical sites are rare. Thus far, 21 cases of 36 DNT-lesions occurring in these areas have been reported; only 8 out of them had epilepsy. We report a case of a 39-year-old woman who had pharmacoresistant epilepsy associated to a DNT in the caudate nucleus-periventricular area treated by lesionectomy. During a 4-year follow-up period, the patient was seizure free and the tumor did not recur. We discuss the hypothetical epileptogenic mechanism involved and we review the pertinent literature.




Psychostimulants robustly induce alterations in neuronal structural plasticity throughout brain reward circuits. However, despite our extensive understanding of how these circuits modulate motivated behavior, it is still unclear whether structural plasticity within these regions drives pathological behavioral responses in addiction. Although these structural changes have been subjected to an exhaustive phenomenological characterization, we still have a limited understanding of the molecular mechanisms regulating their induction and the functional relevance of such changes in mediating addiction-like behavior. Here we have highlighted the known molecular pathways and intracellular signaling cascades that regulate psychostimulant-induced changes in neuronal morphology and synaptic restructuring, and we discuss them in the larger context of addiction behavior.
Animal movement is immensely varied, from the simplest reflexive responses to the most complex, dexterous voluntary tasks. Here, we focus on the control of movement in mammals, including humans. First, the sensory inputs most closely implicated in controlling movement are reviewed, with a focus on somatosensory receptors. The response properties of the large muscle receptors are examined in detail. The role of sensory input in the control of movement is then discussed, with an emphasis on the control of locomotion. The interaction between central pattern generators and sensory input, in particular in relation to stretch reflexes, timing, and pattern forming neuronal networks is examined. It is proposed that neural signals related to bodily velocity form the basic descending command that controls locomotion through specific and well-characterized relationships between muscle activation, step cycle phase durations, and biomechanical outcomes. Sensory input is crucial in modulating both the timing and pattern forming parts of this mechanism.
Pontine respiratory nuclei provide synaptic input to medullary rhythmogenic circuits to shape and adapt the breathing pattern. An understanding of this statement depends on appreciating breathing as a behavior, rather than a stereotypic rhythm. In this review, we focus on the pontine-mediated inspiratory off-switch (IOS) associated with postinspiratory glottal constriction. Further, IOS is examined in the context of pontine regulation of glottal resistance in response to multimodal sensory inputs and higher commands, which in turn rules timing, duration, and patterning of respiratory airflow. In addition, network plasticity in respiratory control emerges during the development of the pons. Synaptic plasticity is required for dynamic and efficient modulation of the expiratory breathing pattern to cope with rapid changes from eupneic to adaptive breathing linked to exploratory (foraging and sniffing) and expulsive (vocalizing, coughing, sneezing, and retching) behaviors, as well as conveyance of basic emotions. The speed and complexity of changes in the breathing pattern of behaving animals implies that &quot;learning to breathe&quot; is necessary to adjust to changing internal and external states to maintain homeostasis and survival.
Personality disorder-not otherwise specified (PD-NOS) has received little study despite being a very prevalent diagnosis of personality disorder (PD). Although some studies suggest that PD-NOS is intermediate in severity between subjects with, and without, formal PD, studies examining a comprehensive set of measures and control subjects have not been reported. Nearly 800 subjects were studied with semi-structured diagnostic interviews and with a variety of measures of temperament, character, and specific dimensions of personality and behavior. The subjects were divided into healthy controls (n = 176), Axis I controls (n = 87), PD subjects (n = 344) and PD-NOS subjects (n = 177). Subjects who met General Diagnostic Criteria for Personality Disorder (GDCPD), but not criteria for any one, specific PD, were designated as PD-NOS. On nearly all measures, PD-NOS differed from Healthy and from Axis I Controls in the direction of more pathology. Although subjects meeting criteria for specific PDs appeared more pathological than PD-NOS, this was always due to severity of PD as reflected by the Structured Interview for the Diagnosis of DSM Personality 4 severity score. When compared with subjects with only one specific PD diagnosis, subjects with PD-NOS did not differ in any way. When diagnosed by GDCPD, subjects with PD-NOS are similar to subjects with specific personality disorders and differ, as expected, from Healthy and Axis I Controls on measures of psychosocial function and on various dimensions of personality and related behavior. Accordingly, PD-NOS by GDCPD is as valid a PD as any other specific PD by DSM criteria.

Patients with schizophrenia present deficits in multiple domains of cognition. The study of the relationship between cognitive performance and symptoms of schizophrenia has yielded heterogeneous results. The purposes of this study were to examine the extent of the relationship between psychopathologic symptoms, cognitive function, and subjective disturbances in a group of patients affected by schizophrenia spectrum disorders and to compare short-term with remitted patients. Seventy-nine patients meeting Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, criteria for schizophrenia, schizophreniform disorder, and schizoaffective disorder were assessed through the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale, the Frankfurt Complaint Questionnaire, and a neuropsychologic battery exploring the 7 Measurement and Treatment Research to improve Cognition in Schizophrenia cognitive domains (speed of processing, attention/vigilance, working memory, verbal learning, visual learning, reasoning and problem solving, and social cognition) plus executive control. Neuropsychologic and psychopathologic variables were compared and correlated. Treatment groups did not differ in neuropsychologic and psychopathologic measures. The cognitive factor of the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale correlated with worse performance on cognitive tasks and with higher scores on the Frankfurt Complaint Questionnaire 24 in the short-term, remitted, and combined groups. Subjective disturbances correlated with impaired executive control, reasoning and problem solving, and social cognition but not during the short-term phase. Both &quot;objective&quot; and subjective psychopathology are intertwined with cognitive function, suggesting some common underlying neural bases. The condition of being in a short-term or a remitted phase of the illness influences this interrelationship, regardless of the type of antipsychotic medication taken.
In this paper we present the &quot;R&amp;W Simulator&quot; (version 3.0), a Java simulator of Rescorla and Wagner's prediction error model of learning. It is able to run whole experimental designs, and compute and display the associative values of elemental and compound stimuli simultaneously, as well as use extra configural cues in generating compound values; it also permits change of the US parameters across phases. The simulator produces both numerical and graphical outputs, and includes a functionality to export the results to a data processor spreadsheet. It is user-friendly, and built with a graphical interface designed to allow neuroscience researchers to input the data in their own &quot;language&quot;. It is a cross-platform simulator, so it does not require any special equipment, operative system or support program, and does not need installation. The &quot;R&amp;W Simulator&quot; (version 3.0) is available free.
Fundamental advances in neuroscience have come from investigations into neuroplasticity and learning. These investigations often focus on identifying universal principles across different individuals of the same species. Increasingly, individual differences in learning success have also been observed, such that any seemingly universal principle might only be applicable to a certain extent within a particular learner. One potential source of this variation is individuals' genetic differences. Adult language learning provides a unique opportunity for understanding individual differences and genetic bases of neuroplasticity because of the large individual differences in learning success that have already been documented, and because of the body of empirical work connecting language learning and neurocognition. In this article, we review the literature on the genetic bases of neurocognition, especially studies examining polymorphisms of dopamine (DA)-related genes and procedural learning. This review leads us to hypothesize that there may be an association between DA-related genetic variation and language learning differences. If this hypothesis is supported by future empirical findings we suggest that it may point to neurogenetic markers that allow for language learning to be personalized.
Dj vu (DV) is a widespread, fascinating and mysterious human experience. It occurs both in health and in disease, notably as an aura of temporal lobe epilepsy. This feeling of inappropriate familiarity has attracted interest from psychologists and neuroscientists for over a century, but still there is no widely agreed explanation for the phenomenon of non-pathological DV. Here we investigated differences in brain morphology between healthy subjects with and without DV using a novel multivariate neuroimaging technique, Source-Based Morphometry. The analysis revealed a set of cortical (predominantly mesiotemporal) and subcortical regions in which there was significantly less gray matter in subjects reporting DV. In these regions gray matter volume was inversely correlated with the frequency of DV. Our results demonstrate a structural correlate of DV in healthy individuals for the first time and support a neurological explanation for the phenomenon. We hypothesis that the observed local gray matter decrease in subjects experiencing DV reflects an alteration of hippocampal function and postnatal neurogenesis with resulting changes of volume in remote brain regions.
Primary progressive aphasia is clinically heterogeneous. We report a patient, alias Don, with a novel form of progressive aphasia, characterised by deep dyslexia and dysgraphia and dissociated access to phonological and orthographic word forms. The hallmarks of deep dyslexia and dysgraphia were present early in the course and persisted over time. Writing was initially poorer than reading, but this reversed over time. There was a lack of concordance between reading and writing errors. Don benefited from a semantic mediation strategy to learn letter sounds, involving associating letters with a country name (e.g., A=Afghanistan). Remarkably, he continued to be able to generate those phonologically complex country names when no longer able to name or sound letters. Don's performance is compatible with a traditional dual-route account of deep dyslexia and dysgraphia. Thefindings have potential practical implications for speech and language therapy in progressive aphasia. Moreover, they illustrate both the remarkable specificity yet clinical diversity in presentation of progressive aphasia.
Bilinguals need an effective neural mechanism to select and control their languages for successful communication. Recent evidence indicates that the left caudate nucleus (LCN) is a critical part of this mechanism. Here we show that bimodal bilinguals, who use spoken and sign languages, have greater grey matter volume (GMV) in the head of the LCN as compared to monolinguals. We also found higher functional activation of this region in bimodal bilinguals when they switched between sign language and spoken language compared to when they did not switch languages. Furthermore, GMV was positively correlated with the magnitude of the switching effect in the head of the LCN. These findings indicate that for bimodal bilinguals, the LCN is shaped by bilingualism both anatomically and functionally.
For over 30 years, empirical studies have demonstrated expression of chemically authentic morphine by diverse animal tissues and organs systems. De novo biosynthesis of endogenous morphine by animal cells displays striking similarities to the multi-enzyme mediated biosynthetic pathway previously characterized in great biochemical and molecular detail in opium poppy (Papaver somniferum). The committed enzyme step within this pathway involves an asymmetric Pictet-Spengler condensation of dopamine (DA) and 3,4 dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (DOPAL), the oxidation product of L- 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), to form the essential intermediate precursor tetrahydropapaveroline (THP). We have hypothesized that endogenous morphine is synthesized within peripheral sites via conversion of THP in a regulated biosynthetic pathway, or conversely, THP may be directly transported into the CNS and converted to endogenous morphine within a similar biosynthetic pathway. The fundamental chemical relationship of the prototype catecholamine DA and its immediate precursor L-DOPA to endogenous morphine expression indicates a novel reciprocally interactive mechanism that links catecholamine and &quot;morphinergic&quot; pathways in the activation and inhibition of key physiological responses, including higher order neural integration. Dysregulation of interactive DAergic and &quot;morphinergic&quot; signaling pathways within CNS foci may contribute to the etiological factors driving co-morbid behavioral syndromes in major psychiatric disorders. Our short review is designed to provide insights on comorbidity and self-medication in schizophrenia from a novel perspective involving endogenous morphine signaling mechanisms.

The numbers and proportions of elderly are increasing rapidly in developing countries, where prevalence of dementia is often high. Providing cost-effective services for dementia sufferers and their caregivers in these resource-poor regions poses numerous challenges; developing resources for diagnosis must be the first step. Capacity building for diagnosis involves training and education of healthcare providers, as well as the general public, development of infrastructure, and resolution of economic and ethical issues. Recent progress in some low-to-middle-income countries (LMICs) provides evidence that partnerships between wealthy and resource-poor countries, and between developing countries, can improve diagnostic capabilities. Without the involvement of the mental health community of developed countries in such capacity-building programs, dementia in the developing world is a disaster waiting to happen.
During the conflicts of the Global War on Terror, which are Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) in Afghanistan and Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF), there have been over a quarter of a million diagnosed cases of traumatic brain injury (TBI). The vast majority are due to explosive blast. Although explosive blast TBI (bTBI) shares many clinical features with closed head TBI (cTBI) and penetrating TBI (pTBI), it has unique features, such as early cerebral edema and prolonged cerebral vasospasm. Evolving work suggests that diffuse axonal injury (DAI) seen following explosive blast exposure is different than DAI from focal impact injury. These unique features support the notion that bTBI is a separate and distinct form of TBI. This review summarizes the current state of knowledge pertaining to bTBI. Areas of discussion are: the physics of explosive blast generation, blast wave interaction with the bony calvarium and brain tissue, gross tissue pathophysiology, regional brain injury, and cellular and molecular mechanisms of explosive blast neurotrauma.
We highlight recent progress in understanding cadherin and integrin function in the model organism Drosophila. New functions for these adhesion receptors continue to be discovered in this system, emphasising the importance of cell adhesion within the developing organism and showing that the requirement for cell adhesion changes between cell types. New ways to control adhesion have been discovered, including controlling the expression and recruitment of adhesion components, their posttranslational modification, recycling and turnover. Importantly, even ubiquitous adhesion components can function differently in distinct cellular contexts.
Many lineage-specific genes are poised and silenced in stem cells. Upon differentiation, genes that are related to self-renewal and alternative lineages are stably silenced. CpG methylation at proximal promoters and PRC2-mediated H3K27me3 play a role in silencing genes temporarily or permanently, with or without coexistence of active epigenetic marks, respectively. Interestingly, DNA methylation on neuronal genes that is distal to transcription start site enable transcription activation owing to its ability to repel PRC2-mediated inhibition. In addition, DNA demethylase Tet proteins play a role in regulation of changes in DNA methylation and related H3K27me3 during differentiation. Collectively, a complex epigenetic network formed by H3K4me3, histone acetylation/deacetylation, H3K27me3 and DNA methylation/demethylation act together to regulate stem cell self-renewal and differentiation.
Neural control of locomotion in human adults involves the generation of a small set of basic patterned commands directed to the leg muscles. The commands are generated sequentially in time during each step by neural networks located in the spinal cord, called Central Pattern Generators. This review outlines recent advances in understanding how motor commands are expressed at different stages of human development. Similar commands are found in several other vertebrates, indicating that locomotion development follows common principles of organization of the control networks. Movements show a high degree of flexibility at all stages of development, which is instrumental for learning and exploration of variable interactions with the environment.
A growing understanding of the genetic origins of autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) and the impact of ASD risk genes on synaptic function presents new opportunities for drug discovery. Large-scale human genetics studies have begun to reveal molecular pathways and potential therapeutic drug targets. Subsequent validation and characterization of ASD risk genes in mouse models holds promise for defining relevant cellular mechanisms and brain circuits associated with the core behavioral symptoms of autism. Here we review recent advances in the molecular therapeutics in ASDs and discuss opportunities and obstacles for converting emerging biology into new medicines. We present emerging concepts on the impact of risk genes during development and adulthood that define points of intervention. We further highlight ongoing clinical trials in patients with syndromic forms of autism. These clinical studies will be an important test of the utility of human genetics as a starting point for drug discovery in ASDs.
The neuroimaging literature on attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is growing rapidly. Here, we provide a critical overview of neuroimaging studies published recently, highlighting perspectives that may be of relevance for clinicians. After a comprehensive search of PubMed, Ovid, Web of Science, and EMBASE, we located 41 pertinent papers published between January 2011 and April 2012, comprising both structural and functional neuroimaging studies. This literature is increasingly contributing to the notion that the pathophysiology of ADHD reflects abnormal interplay among large-scale brain circuits. Moreover, recent studies have begun to reveal the mechanisms of action of pharmacological treatment. Finally, imaging studies with a developmental perspective are revealing the brain correlates of ADHD over the lifespan, complementing clinical observations on the phenotypic continuity and discontinuity of the disorder. However, despite the increasing potential to eventually inform clinical practice, current imaging studies do not have validated applications in day-to-day clinical practice. Although novel analytical techniques are likely to accelerate the pace of translational applications, at the present we advise caution regarding inappropriate commercial misuse of imaging techniques in ADHD.




Evolutionarily conserved Tcf/Lef transcription factors (Lef1, Tcf7, Tcf7l1, and Tcf7l2) mediate gene expression regulated by Wnt/-catenin signaling, which has multiple roles in early embryogenesis, organogenesis, adult tissue homeostasis, and tissue regeneration. However, the spatiotemporal dynamics of Tcf/Lef activity during these events remain poorly understood. We generated stable transgenic zebrafish lines carrying a new Wnt/-catenin signaling reporter, Tcf/Lef-miniP:dGFP. The reporter revealed the transcriptional activities of four Tcf/Lef members controlled by Wnt/-catenin signaling, which were expressed in known Wnt/-catenin signaling-active sites during embryogenesis, organ development and growth, and tissue regeneration. We used the transgenic lines to demonstrate the contribution of Tcf/Lef-mediated Wnt/-catenin signaling to the development of the anterior lateral line, dorsal and secondary posterior lateral lines, and gill filaments. Thus, these reporter lines are highly useful tools for studying Tcf/Lef-mediated Wnt/-catenin signaling-dependent processes.
Episodic memory is central to the human experience. In typically developing children, episodic memory improves rapidly during middle childhood. While the developmental cognitive neuroscience of episodic memory remains largely uncharted, recent research has begun to provide important insights. It has long been assumed that hippocampus-dependent binding mechanisms are in place by early childhood, and that improvements in episodic memory observed during middle childhood result from the protracted development of the prefrontal cortex. We revisit the notion that binding mechanisms are age-invariant, and propose that changes in the hippocampus and its projections to cortical regions also contribute to the development of episodic memory. We further review the role of developmental changes in lateral prefrontal and parietal cortices in this development. Finally, we discuss changes in white matter tracts connecting brain regions that are critical for episodic memory. Overall, we argue that changes in episodic memory emerge from the concerted effort of a network of relevant brain structures.
Studies comparing neural correlates of reward processing across development yield inconsistent findings. This challenges theories characterizing adolescents as globally hypo- or hypersensitive to rewards. Developmental differences in reward sensitivity may fluctuate based on reward magnitude, and on whether rewards require decision-making. We examined whether these factors modulate developmental differences in neural response during reward anticipation and/or receipt in 26 adolescents (14.052.37 yrs) and 26 adults (31.258.23 yrs). Brain activity was assessed with fMRI during reward anticipation, when subjects made responses with-vs.-without decision-making, to obtain large-vs.-small rewards, and during reward receipt. When reward-receipt required decision-making, neural activity did not differ by age. However, when reward receipt did not require decision-making, neural activity varied by development, reward magnitude, and stage of the reward task. During anticipation, adolescents, but not adults, exhibited greater activity in the insula, extending into putamen, and cingulate gyrus for large-vs.-small incentives. During feedback, adults, but not adolescents, exhibited greater activity in the precuneus for large-vs.-small incentives. These data indicate that age-related differences in reward sensitivity cannot be characterized by global hypo- or hyper-responsivity. Instead, neural responding in striatum, prefrontal cortex and precuneus is influenced by both situational demands and developmental factors. This suggests nuanced maturational effects in adolescent reward sensitivity.

PRRT2 is the gene recently associated with paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia (PKD), benign familial infantile epilepsy, and choreoathetosis infantile convulsions. We report four family members with PRRT2 mutations who had heterogeneous paroxysmal disorders. The index patient had transient infantile paroxysmal torticollis, then benign infantile epilepsy that responded to carbamazepine. The index patient's father had PKD and migraine with aphasia, and his two brothers had hemiplegic migraine with onset in childhood. All four family members had the same PRRT2 c.649dupC mutation. We conclude that heterogeneous paroxysmal disorders are associated with PRRT2 mutations and include paroxysmal torticollis and hemiplegic migraine. We propose that PRRT2 is a new gene for hemiplegic migraine.



Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex disorder that appears to be caused by interactions between genetic changes and environmental insults during early development. A wide range of factors have been linked to the onset of ASD, but recently both genetic associations and environmental factors point to a central role for immune-related genes and immune responses to environmental stimuli. Specifically, many of the proteins encoded by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) play a vital role in the formation, refinement, maintenance, and plasticity of the brain. Manipulations of levels of MHC molecules have illustrated how disrupted MHC signaling can significantly alter brain connectivity and function. Thus, an emerging hypothesis in our field is that disruptions in MHC expression in the developing brain caused by mutations and/or immune dysregulation may contribute to the altered brain connectivity and function characteristic of ASD. This review provides an overview of the structure and function of the three classes of MHC molecules in the immune system, healthy brain, and their possible involvement in ASD.
The mammalian cortex is a multilaminar structure consisting of specialized layer-specific neurons that form complex circuits throughout the brain and spinal cord. These neurons are generated in a defined sequence dictated by their birthdate such that early-born neurons settle in deep cortical layers whereas late-born neurons populate more superficial layers. Cortical neuronal birthdate is partly controlled by an intrinsic clock-type mechanism; however, the role of extrinsic factors in the temporal control of cell-cycle exit is less clear. Here, we show that Gde2, a six-transmembrane protein that induces spinal neuronal differentiation, is expressed in the developing cortex throughout cortical neurogenesis. In the absence of Gde2, cortical progenitors fail to exit the cell cycle on time, remain cycling, accumulate and exit the cell cycle en masse towards the end of the neurogenic period. These dynamic changes in cell-cycle progression cause deficits and delays in deep-layer neuronal differentiation and robust increases in superficial neuronal numbers. Gde2(-/-) cortices show elevated levels of Notch signaling coincident with when progenitors fail to differentiate, suggesting that abnormal Notch activation retains cells in a proliferative phase that biases them to superficial fates. However, no change in Notch signaling is observed at the time of increased cell-cycle exit. These observations define a key role for Gde2 in controlling cortical neuronal fates by regulating the timing of neurogenesis, and show that loss of Gde2 uncovers additional mechanisms that trigger remaining neuronal progenitors to differentiate at the end of the neurogenic period.
Neurons must develop complex structure to form proper connections in the nervous system. The initiation of axons in defined locations on the cell body and their extension to synaptic targets are critical steps in neuronal morphogenesis, yet the mechanisms controlling axon formation in vivo are poorly understood. The centrosome has been implicated in multiple aspects of neuronal morphogenesis; however, its function in axon development is under debate. Conflicting results from studies of centrosome function in axonogenesis suggest that its role is context dependent and underscore the importance of studying centrosome function as neurons develop in their natural environment. Using live imaging of zebrafish Rohon-Beard (RB) sensory neurons in vivo, we discovered a spatiotemporal relationship between centrosome position and the formation of RB peripheral, but not central, axons. We tested centrosome function by laser ablation and found that centrosome disruption inhibited peripheral axon outgrowth. In addition, we show that centrosome position and motility are regulated by LIM homeodomain transcription factor activity, which is specifically required for the development of RB peripheral axons. Furthermore, we show a correlation between centrosome mislocalization and ectopic axon formation in bashful (laminin alpha 1) mutants. Thus, both intrinsic transcription factor activity and extracellular cues can influence centrosome position and axon formation in vivo. This study presents the first positive association between the centrosome and axon formation in vivo and suggests that the centrosome is important for differential neurite formation in neurons with complex axonal morphologies.


The major imperative of the pharmaceutical industry is to effectively translate insights gained from basic research into new medicines. This task is toughest for CNS disorders. Compared with non-CNS drugs, CNS drugs take longer to get to market and their attrition rate is greater. This is principally because of the complexity of the human brain (the cause of many brain disorders remains unknown), the liability of CNS drugs to cause CNS side effects (which limits their use) and the requirement of CNS medicines to cross the blood-CNS barrier (BCNSB) (which restricts their ability to interact with their CNS target). In this review we consider the factors that are important in translating neuroscience research into CNS medicines.
Constant efforts are being made in the stroke community to aim for maximum benefit from thrombolytic therapy since the approval of intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA; alteplase) for the management of acute ischaemic stroke. However, fear of symptomatic haemorrhage secondary to thrombolytic therapy has been a major concern for treating physicians. Certain imaging and clinical variables may help guide the clinician towards better treatment decision making. Aggressive management of some predictive variables that have been shown to be surrogate outcome measures has been related to better clinical outcomes. Achieving faster, safer and complete recanalization with evolving endovascular techniques is routinely practiced to achieve better clinical outcomes. Selection of an 'ideal candidate' for thrombolysis can maximize functional outcomes in these patients. Although speed and safety are the key factors in acute management of stroke patients, there must also be a systematic and organized pattern to assist the stroke physician in making decisions to select the 'ideal candidate' for treatment to maximize results.


This study explored how the effectiveness of specific emotion regulation strategies might be influenced by aging and by time of day, given that in older age the circadian peak in cognitive performance is earlier in the day. We compared the benefit gained by 40 older (60-78 years; 20 women) and 40 younger (18-30 years; 20 women) adults during either on-peak or off-peak circadian times on 2 specific types of cognitive emotion regulation strategies: distraction and reappraisal. Participants rated their negative emotional responses to negative and neutral images under 3 conditions: a baseline nonregulation condition, a distraction condition involving a working memory task, and a reappraisal condition that involved reinterpreting the situation displayed using specific preselected strategies. First, as hypothesized, there was a crossover interaction such that participants in each age group reported more negative reactivity at their off-peak time of day. Second, a double dissociation was observed as circadian rhythms affected only negative reactivity-with reactivity highest at off-peak times-and aging diminished reappraisal but not distraction ability or reactivity. These findings add to growing evidence that understanding the effects of aging on emotion and emotion regulation depends on taking both time of day and type of regulatory strategy into account.
Greater levels of conscientiousness have been associated with lower levels of negative affect. We focus on one mechanism through which conscientiousness may decrease negative affect: effective emotion regulation, as reflected by greater recovery from negative stimuli. In 273 adults who were 35-85 years old, we collected self-report measures of personality including conscientiousness and its self-control facet, followed on average 2 years later by psychophysiological measures of emotional reactivity and recovery. Among middle-aged adults (35-65 years old), the measures of conscientiousness and self-control predicted greater recovery from, but not reactivity to, negative emotional stimuli. The effect of conscientiousness and self-control on recovery was not driven by other personality variables or by greater task adherence on the part of high conscientiousness individuals. In addition, the effect was specific to negative emotional stimuli and did not hold for neutral or positive emotional stimuli.
Which emotions underlie our positive experiences of art? Although recent evidence from neuroscience suggests that emotions play a critical role in art perception, no research to date has explored the extent to which specific emotional states affect aesthetic experiences or whether general physiological arousal is sufficient. Participants were assigned to one of five conditions-sitting normally, engaging in 15 or 30 jumping jacks, or viewing a happy or scary video-prior to rating abstract works of art. Only the fear condition resulted in significantly more positive judgments about the art. These striking findings provide the first evidence that fear uniquely inspires positively valenced aesthetic judgments. The results are discussed in the context of embodied cognition.
Research on the perception of emotional expressions in faces and voices is exploding in psychology, the neurosciences, and affective computing. This article provides an overview of some of the major emotion expression (EE) corpora currently available for empirical research and introduces a new, dynamic, multimodal corpus of emotion expressions, the Geneva Multimodal Emotion Portrayals Core Set (GEMEP-CS). The design features of the corpus are outlined and justified, and detailed validation data for the core set selection are presented and discussed. Finally, an associated database with microcoded facial, vocal, and body action elements, as well as observer ratings, is introduced.
Early exposure to the steroid sex hormone testosterone and its estrogen metabolite estradiol masculinize neural tissue during a developmental critical period. Many aspects of neuron anatomy and physiology are permanently altered, including later sensitivity to estradiol. Although it is well established that early hormone exposure alters neuronal responsiveness regarding classical estradiol actions (i.e. acting via nuclear estrogen receptors), it has not yet been determined whether it also alters neuronal processing of nonclassical estrogen receptor signaling, including the actions of membrane-associated estrogen receptors. Hence, we tested whether membrane estrogen receptor regulation of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation observed in female (but not male) hippocampal pyramidal neurons is due to the lack of androgen and/or estrogen exposure in females during this critical period. Female rat neonates on postnatal d 0 and 1 were systemically injected with one of four compounds: vehicle, testosterone, the nonaromatizable androgen dihydrotestosterone, or estradiol. On postnatal d 2, primary hippocampal neuron cultures were generated from these animals. After 8-9 d in culture, we assessed whether estradiol affected CREB phosphorylation. Neurons from female neonates exposed to testosterone lacked estradiol signaling to CREB. In contrast, dihydrotestosterone injections of female neonates did not disrupt estradiol regulation of CREB. Estradiol injections of female neonates, however, eliminated estradiol signaling to CREB. These findings indicate that testosterone aromatization to estradiol leads to a masculinization/defeminization process whereby hippocampal neurons fail to exhibit rapid estradiol signaling to CREB. Broadly, these findings extend the organizational and aromatization hypotheses to rapid, nonclassical hormone action.

The objective of this study was to describe the current situation of patients with epilepsy after rehabilitation with emphasis on employment and education and to investigate if clinical factors at admission were associated with increase in employment or education. All patients that participated in a comprehensive rehabilitation were eligible. Data were collected from medical records at admission, during rehabilitation, at discharge and from a structured telephone interview at follow-up 1-17 years after admission. In total, 124 patients participated in the follow-up. Participation in employment or education improved from admission to follow-up in 38 patients. In univariable analysis, active epilepsy with tonic-clonic seizures at admission was significantly associated with increased participation in employment or education at follow-up, so was decreased frequency of tonic-clonic seizures from admission to follow-up. The significance of the associations disappeared in adjusted multivariable analysis. Participation in employment or education was improved for many patients at follow-up.

The D-amino acid oxidase activator (DAOA) protein regulates the function of D-amino oxidase (DAO), an enzyme that catalyzes the oxidative deamination of D-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (D-DOPA) and D-serine. D-DOPA is converted to L-3,4-DOPA, a precursor of dopamine, whereas D-serine participates in glutamatergic transmission. We hypothesized that DAOA polymorphisms are associated with dopamine, serotonin and noradrenaline turnover in the human brain. Four single-nucleotide polymorphisms, previously reported to be associated with schizophrenia, were genotyped. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples were drawn by lumbar puncture, and the concentrations of the major dopamine metabolite homovanillic acid (HVA), the major serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and the major noradrenaline metabolite 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) were measured. Two of the investigated polymorphisms, rs3918342 and rs1421292, were significantly associated with CSF HVA concentrations. Rs3918342 was found to be nominally associated with CSF 5-HIAA concentrations. None of the polymorphisms were significantly associated with MHPG concentrations. Our results indicate that DAOA gene variation affects dopamine turnover in healthy individuals, suggesting that disturbed dopamine turnover is a possible mechanism behind the observed associations between genetic variation in DAOA and behavioral phenotypes in humans.
Evidence suggests that the acquisition of recognition memory depends upon CREB-dependent long-lasting changes in synaptic plasticity in the perirhinal cortex.The CREB-responsive microRNA miR-132 has been shown to regulate synaptic transmission and we set out to investigate a role for this microRNA in recognition memory and its underlying plasticity mechanisms. To this end we mediated the specific overexpression of miR-132 selectively in the rat perirhinal cortex and demonstrated impairment in short-term recognition memory. This functional deficit was associated with a reduction in both long-term depression and long-term potentiation. These results confirm that microRNAs are key coordinators of the intracellular pathways that mediate experience-dependent changes in the brain. In addition, these results demonstrate a role for miR-132 in the neuronal mechanisms underlying the formation of short-term recognition memory.
Plasma levels of corticosterone exhibit both circadian and ultradian rhythms. The circadian component of these rhythms is regulated by the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Our studies investigate the importance of the SCN in regulating ultradian rhythmicity. Two approaches were used to dissociate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis from normal circadian input in rats: (i) exposure to a constant light (LL) environment and (ii) electrolytic lesioning of the SCN. Blood was sampled using an automated sampling system. As expected, both treatments resulted in a loss of the circadian pattern of corticosterone secretion. Ultradian pulsatile secretion of corticosterone however, was maintained across the 24 h in all animals. Furthermore, the loss of SCN input revealed an underlying relationship between locomotor and HPA activity. In control (LD) rats there was no clear correlation between ultradian locomotor activity and hormone secretion, whereas, in LL rats, episodes of ultradian activity were consistently followed by periods of increased pulsatile hormone secretion. These data clearly demonstrate that the ultradian rhythm of corticosterone secretion is generated through a mechanism independent of the SCN input, supporting recent evidence for a sub-hypothalamic pulse generator.
The free-running circadian period is approximately 30 min shorter in adult male than in adult female Octodon degus. The sex difference emerges after puberty, resulting from a shortened free-running circadian period in males. Castration before puberty prevents the emergence of the sex difference, but it is not a function of circulating gonadal hormones as such, because castration later in life does not affect free-running circadian period. The aim of this study was to determine whether or not the shortening of the free-running circadian period in male degus results from exposure to gonadal hormones after puberty. We hypothesized that masculinization of the circadian period results from an organizational effect of androgen exposure during a post-pubertal sensitive period. Male degus were castrated before puberty and implanted with capsules filled with dihydrotestosterone (DHT), 17-estradiol (E2) or empty capsules at one of three ages: peri-puberty (2-7 months), post-puberty (7-12 months), or adulthood (14-19 months). Long-term exposure to DHT or E2 did not result in a shortened free-running circadian period when administered at 2-7 or 14-19 months of age. However, E2 treatment from 7 to 12 months of age decreased the free-running circadian period in castrated males. This result was replicated in a subsequent experiment in which E2 treatment was limited to 8-12 months of age. E2 treatment at 7-12 months of age had no effect on the free-running circadian period in ovariectomized females. Thus, there appears to be a post-pubertal sensitive period for sexual differentiation of the circadian system of degus, during which E2 exposure decreases the free-running circadian period in males. These data demonstrate that gonadal hormones can act during adolescent development to permanently alter the circadian system.
We employed an electroencephalography paradigm manipulating predictive context to dissociate the neural dynamics of anticipatory mechanisms. Subjects either detected random targets or targets preceded by a predictive sequence of three distinct stimuli. The last stimulus in the three-stimulus sequence (decisive stimulus) did not require any motor response but 100% predicted a subsequent target event. We showed that predictive context optimises target processing via the deployment of distinct anticipatory mechanisms at different times of the predictive sequence. Prior to the occurrence of the decisive stimulus, enhanced attentional preparation was manifested by reductions in the alpha oscillatory activities over the visual cortices, resulting in facilitation of processing of the decisive stimulus. Conversely, the subsequent 100% predictable target event did not reveal the deployment of attentional preparation in the visual cortices, but elicited enhanced motor preparation mechanisms, indexed by an increased contingent negative variation and reduced mu oscillatory activities over the motor cortices before movement onset. The present results provide evidence that anticipation operates via different attentional and motor preparation mechanisms by selectively pre-activating task-dependent brain areas as the predictability gradually increases.
The purpose of this study was to identify and compare the afferent projections to the primary visual cortex in intact and enucleated C57BL/6 mice and in ZRDCT/An anophthalmic mice. Early loss of sensory-driven activity in blind subjects can lead to activations of the primary visual cortex by haptic or auditory stimuli. This intermodal activation following the onset of blindness is believed to arise through either unmasking of already present cortical connections, sprouting of novel cortical connections or enhancement of intermodal cortical connections. Studies in humans have similarly demonstrated heteromodal activation of visual cortex following relatively short periods of blindfolding. This suggests that the primary visual cortex in normal sighted subjects receives afferents, either from multisensory association cortices or from primary sensory cortices dedicated to other modalities. Here cortical afferents to the primary visual cortex were investigated to determine whether the visual cortex receives sensory input from other modalities, and whether differences exist in the quantity and/or the structure of projections found in sighted, enucleated and anophthalmic mice. This study demonstrates extensive direct connections between the primary visual cortex and auditory and somatosensory areas, as well as with motor and association cortices in all three animal groups. This suggests that information from different sensory modalities can be integrated at early cortical stages and that visual cortex activations following visual deprivations can partly be explained by already present intermodal corticocortical connections.


The relationship between prior antidepressant treatment and prefrontal brain functional response to subsequent treatment with antidepressant medication or placebo is unknown. Eighty-nine adults with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), characterized as antidepressant-experienced or antidepressant-naive, received one week of single-blind placebo treatment prior to eight weeks of randomized treatment with medication (fluoxetine or venlafaxine; n = 47) or placebo (n = 42) in one of three similar placebo-controlled trials. Brain function was assessed at baseline, end of placebo lead-in, and during randomized treatment using quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG). The authors assessed change in prefrontal theta-band cordance (PFC) in antidepressant-experienced vs. antidepressant-naive subjects. Treatment history groups differed significantly on PFC change during the placebo lead-in even when controlling for clinical and demographic variables (F(1,62) = 4.27, p = .04). As assessed in linear mixed models that examined treatment history (antidepressant-experienced or antidepressant-naive), treatment assignment (medication or placebo), and their interaction as predictors, treatment history also predicted PFC change during the randomized phase of treatment even when controlling for pretreatment clinical and demographic and symptom improvement during treatment (F(1,5o) = 5.20, p = .03). The interaction was not significant. Post hoc analyses showed that antidepressant-experienced subjects treated with placebo showed PFC changes that did not differ from PFC changes seen in the medication group. Results suggest that prefrontal brain functional changes during treatment for MDD may differ depending upon prior treatment with antidepressant medication.

Neuroinflammation is known to elicit numerous changes in brain physiology and is associated with various pathologies, including neurodegenerative diseases, and behaviors, such as sleep and acute illness. In addition, there is accumulating evidence that the behavioral response to alcohol is affected by perturbations to the neuroimmune system. Recent studies have shown that administration of proinflammatory mediators increases alcohol consumption, while anti-inflammatory drugs, such as minocycline, decrease consumption. Doxycycline is an anti-inflammatory mediator and a tetracycline derivative, and is commonly used in the tetracycline regulatory system, a transgenic approach widely accredited for its inducible and reversible nature. Given the established link between anti-inflammatory agents and response to and consumption of alcohol, and because the tetracycline regulatory system is becoming increasingly employed for genetic manipulations and behavioral phenotyping, we investigated the effect of doxycycline administration on alcohol sensitivity and consumption. Two independent transgenic lines containing a tetracycline transactivator transgene or the tetracycline operator promoter insertion, along with wild-type littermate mice (C57Bl/6J), were used to measure changes in alcohol consumption, alcohol-induced motor impairment and sedation, and blood alcohol concentration with doxycycline administration (40 mg/kg in chow). Using repeated sessions of the drinking-in-the-dark paradigm, we found that doxycycline consistently reduced consumption of 20% alcohol during two- and four-hour access. Doxycycline also increased sensitivity to the motor-impairing effects of alcohol (2 g/kg), and the duration of loss of righting reflex after ethanol injection (3.5 g/kg), without causing a significant alteration in blood alcohol levels. Despite the many advantages of using a tetracycline-regulated transgenic approach, it is important to consider the effects of doxycycline administration in behaviors that may be influenced by neuroinflammation, including alcohol behaviors.
The goal of this study was to identify whether impaired cortical preparation may relate to impaired scaling of postural responses of people with Parkinson's disease (PD). We hypothesized that impaired scaling of postural responses in participants with PD would be associated with impaired set-dependent cortical activity in preparation for perturbations of predictable magnitudes. Participants performed postural responses to backward surface translations. We examined the effects of perturbation magnitude (predictable small vs. predictable large) and predictability of magnitude (predictable vs. unpredictable-in-magnitude) on postural responses (center-of-pressure (CoP) displacements) and on preparatory electroencephalographic (EEG) measures of contingent negative variation (CNV) and alpha and beta event-related desynchronization (ERD). Our results showed that unpredictability of perturbation magnitude, but not the magnitude of the perturbation itself, was associated with increased CNV amplitude at the CZ electrode in both groups. While control participants scaled their postural responses to the predicted magnitude of the perturbation, their condition-related changes in CoP displacements were not correlated with condition-related changes in EEG preparatory activity (CNV or ERD). In contrast, participants with PD did not scale their postural responses to the predicted magnitude of the perturbation, but they did demonstrate greater beta ERD in the condition of predictably small-magnitude perturbations and greater beta ERD than the control participants at the CZ electrode. In addition, increased beta ERD in PD was associated with decreased adaptability of postural responses, suggesting that preparatory cortical activity may have a more direct influence on postural response scaling for people with PD than for control participants.
Autism spectrum disorder is typically associated with social deficits and is often specifically linked to difficulty with processing faces and other socially relevant stimuli. Emerging research has suggested that children with autism might also have deficits in basic perceptual abilities including multisensory processing (e.g., simultaneously processing visual and auditory inputs). The current study examined the relationship between multisensory temporal processing (assessed via a simultaneity judgment task wherein participants were to report whether a visual stimulus and an auditory stimulus occurred at the same time or at different times) and self-reported symptoms of autism (assessed via the Autism Spectrum Quotient questionnaire). Data from over 100 healthy adults revealed a relationship between these two factors as multisensory timing perception correlated with symptoms of autism. Specifically, a stronger bias to perceive auditory stimuli occurring before visual stimuli as simultaneous was associated with greater levels of autistic symptoms. Additional data and analyses confirm that this relationship is specific to multisensory processing and symptoms of autism. These results provide insight into the nature of multisensory processing while also revealing a continuum over which perceptual abilities correlate with symptoms of autism and that this continuum is not just specific to clinical populations but is present within the general population.
In two experiments we investigated whether bistable visual perception is influenced by passive own body displacements due to vestibular stimulation. For this we passively rotated our participants around the vertical (yaw) axis while observing different rotating bistable stimuli (bodily or non-bodily) with different ambiguous motion directions. Based on previous work on multimodal effects on bistable perception, we hypothesized that vestibular stimulation should alter bistable perception and that the effects should differ for bodily versus non-bodily stimuli. In the first experiment, it was found that the rotation bias (i.e., the difference between the percentage of time that a CW or CCW rotation was perceived) was selectively modulated by vestibular stimulation: the perceived duration of the bodily stimuli was longer for the rotation direction congruent with the subject's own body rotation, whereas the opposite was true for the non-bodily stimulus (Necker cube). The results found in the second experiment extend the findings from the first experiment and show that these vestibular effects on bistable perception only occur when the axis of rotation of the bodily stimulus matches the axis of passive own body rotation. These findings indicate that the effect of vestibular stimulation on the rotation bias depends on the stimulus that is presented and the rotation axis of the stimulus. Although most studies on vestibular processing have traditionally focused on multisensory signal integration for posture, balance, and heading direction, the present data show that vestibular self-motion influences the perception of bistable bodily stimuli revealing the importance of vestibular mechanisms for visual consciousness.
The most conspicuous feature of the rabbit retina is the visual streak that extends along the horizontal azimuth from the nasal margin to the temporal limit of the retina. We believe the streak processes movement vision and that the temporal region (area centralis) is responsible for pattern perception. Both anatomical and behavioural experiments were used to test this hypothesis. Behavioural measures of pattern vision in normal and chiasma-sectioned rabbits revealed both to have the same visual acuity. Using OKN as a measure of movement vision, normal rabbits showed both a directional and velocity-tuned response. The chiasma-sectioned rabbits, with only uncrossed fibre projections remaining, showed a total loss of movement detection. The injection of HRP into the vitreal chamber of one eye in normal rabbits revealed extensive uptake throughout the contralateral thalamus. In the ipsilateral thalamus, there was uptake solely from the ipsilateral retinal projection to a restricted wafer of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). The chiasma cut rabbits showed a very different distribution of HRP in the thalamus. The uptake was restricted to a thin wafer of the LGN, with no contralateral uptake. Thus, the thalamic projections from the retinal area centralis were strictly segregated from the thalamic target areas for the visual streak without any overlap. These findings provide strong evidence for separate retinal origins with anatomically separate pathways for pattern and movement vision in the rabbit.
Adaptation of a rapid ballistic movement requires that commands for the next movement are updated on the basis of sensory error signals from the current movement. Previous experiments, mostly using visual feedback, have demonstrated that adaptation is highly sensitive to the timing of feedback and can be substantially impaired by delays of 100ms or so. Here, we use the phenomenon of surround inhibition (SI) to explore the consequences of somatosensory feedback delay in a task requiring participants to flex the index finger without generating any electromyographical (EMG) activity in other fingers. Participants were requested to perform brief isolated flexion movements of the index finger. After a short period of practice, SI in the distant abductor digiti minimi (ADM) muscle was quantified by measuring the amplitude of EMG responses evoked by a standard pulse of transcranial magnetic stimulation to the contralateral motor cortex at the onset of flexion. SI indicates that the response during flexion was smaller than the response at rest. After this, two training blocks were performed in which the ADM muscle was vibrated (80Hz, 100ms) either at the onset (VIB(onset)) of finger flexion or with a delay of 100ms (VIB(100)). SI was reassessed after training. SI measured after VIB(onset) training was transiently more effective than at baseline. In contrast, SI was unchanged compared to baseline after VIB(100). The present study demonstrates that SI can be modified by experience. The timing of the sensory stimulation was found to be critical for the modification of SI, suggesting that only sensory signals closely related to the movement onset can induce adaptive changes, presumably through a feed-forward process.
The purpose of this work was to investigate the expression of glutamine synthase (GS), nitric oxide synthase (NOS) superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione transferase (GST) in the aqueous humor of patients with primary open angle glaucoma and controls. Aqueous humor proteome was analyzed by antibody microarray. The expression of tested proteins was detected by protein Cy3/Cy5 labeling, column purification and hybridization on antibody-spotted glass microarray. Fluorescent signals were detected by fluorescence laser scanning. Aqueous humor levels of SOD as well as of GST were significantly lower (2.0- and 2.2-fold, p &lt; 0.01) among patients than controls; both NOS and GS expression were significantly higher (2.2- and 2.6 fold, p &lt; 0.01) among patients than controls. Our data showed substantial differences of GS, NOS2, SOD and GST aqueous humor levels between glaucomatous patients and controls as measured by antibody microarray technology. The overproduction of NO through inducible NOS can form toxic products and change the metabolic conditions of the TM. The GS over-expression might be related to neuronal injury or to the potential role of glutamate as a modulator in the ciliary body signaling. The reduced expression of the antioxidant enzymes SOD and GST could aggravate the unbalance between both oxygen- and nitrogen-derived free radicals production and detoxification. Based on our results, GS, NOS2, SOD and GST as measured by antibody microarray technology may be useful oxidative markers in aqueous humor of glaucomatous patients.
In the vertebrate retina, melatonin is synthesized by the photoreceptors with high levels of melatonin at night and lower levels during the day. Melatonin exerts its influence by interacting with a family of G-protein-coupled receptors that are negatively coupled with adenylyl cyclase. Melatonin receptors belonging to the subtypes MT(1) and MT(2) have been identified in the mammalian retina. MT(1) and MT(2) receptors are found in all layers of the neural retina and in the retinal pigmented epithelium. Melatonin in the eye is believed to be involved in the modulation of many important retinal functions; it can modulate the electroretinogram (ERG), and administration of exogenous melatonin increases light-induced photoreceptor degeneration. Melatonin may also have protective effects on retinal pigment epithelial cells, photoreceptors and ganglion cells. A series of studies have implicated melatonin in the pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration, and melatonin administration may represent a useful approach to prevent and treat glaucoma. Melatonin is used by millions of people around the world to retard aging, improve sleep performance, mitigate jet lag symptoms, and treat depression. Administration of exogenous melatonin at night may also be beneficial for ocular health, but additional investigation is needed to establish its potential.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is a bioactive lipid mediator with strong inflammatory properties. PAF induces the expression and activation of metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in corneal epithelial cells and myofibroblasts, and delays epithelial wound healing in an organ culture system. Lipoxin A(4) (LXA(4)) is a lipid mediator involved in resolution of inflammation and cornea epithelial wound healing. We developed an in vivo mouse model of injury to the anterior stroma that is sustained by PAF and evaluated the action of LXA(4). In this model mice were treated with vehicle, PAF alone and in combination with PAF receptor antagonist LAU-0901 or LXA(4). Mice were euthanized 1, 2 and 7 days after injury and corneas were processed for histology (H&amp;E staining) and immunofluorescence with antibodies for MMP-9, -smooth muscle actin (-SMA), fibronectin (FN) and neutrophil. Interleukin 1- (IL-1) and keratinocyte-derived chemokine (KC/CXCL1) were assayed by ELISA. Myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity was performed in corneal homogenates. In this in vivo model PAF inhibited epithelial wound healing that was blocked by the PAF receptor antagonist LAU-0901. Treatment with LXA(4) significantly reduced the injured area compared to PAF at 1 and 2 days of treatment. The strong stromal cell infiltration and MPO activity stimulated by PAF was also decreased with LXA(4) treatment. PAF increased MMP-9 and decreased FN expression compared to vehicle treatment and less -SMA positive cells migrated to the wounded area. The PAF actions were reverted by LXA(4) treatment. The results demonstrated a powerful action of LXA(4) in protecting corneas with injuries that compromise the stroma by decreasing inflammation and increasing wound healing.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a devastating stroke causing considerable tissue destruction from mechanical trauma and secondary degeneration. Free iron, released over days from degrading erythrocytes, causes free radicals that likely contribute to delayed injury. Indeed, an intracerebral injection of iron rapidly kills cells and causes cerebral edema. We expanded upon these observations by: determining a dose-response relationship of iron infusion, examining the structural appearance of surviving striatal neurons, and evaluating injury over months. First, we measured 24-h edema in rats given 3.8, 19.0 or 38.0 g infusions of FeCl (i.e., 30 L of a 1, 5 or 10 mmol/L solution). Second, rats were given these infusions (vs. saline controls) followed by behavioral assessment and histology at 7 days. Third, dendritic structure was measured in Golgi-Cox stained neurons at 7 days after a 0.95-g dose (30 L of a 0.25 mmol/L solution). Last, rats survived 7 or 60 days post-injection (19.0 g) for histological assessment. Larger doses of iron caused greater injury, but this was generally not reflected in behavior that indicated similar deficits among the 3.8-38.0 g groups. Similarly, edema occurred but was not linearly related to dose. Even after a low iron dose the surviving neurons in the peri-injury zone were considerably atrophied (vs. contralateral side and controls). Finally, continuing tissue loss occurred over weeks with prominent neuronal death and iron-positive cells (e.g., macrophages) at 60 days. Iron alone may account for the chronic degeneration found after ICH in rodent models.
The story of cell death began with the origins of cell biology, including important observations by Elie (Ilya) Metchnikoff, who realized that phagocytes engulfed dying cells. Most of the early studies were observational. By the middle of the 20th C, researchers were beginning to explore how cells died, had recognized that cell death was a physiologically controlled process, that the most common mode of death (&quot;shrinkage necrosis&quot;, later apoptosis) was tightly controlled, and were speculating whether lysosomes were &quot;suicide bags&quot;. Just prior to 1990 several discoveries led to rapid expansion of interest in the field and elucidation of the mechanisms of apoptosis. Closer to the beginning of the 21st C comprehensive analysis of the molecules that controlled and effected apoptosis led to the conclusion that autophagic processes were linked to apoptosis and could serve to limit or increase cell death. Today, realizing that knowledge of the components of cell death has not yet produced pharmaceuticals of therapeutic value, research is turning to questions of what metabolic or other mechanisms indirectly control the activation or suppression of the cell death positive feedback loop. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Apoptosis: Four Decades Later&quot;



The authors systematically reviewed evidence on iron status, as well as studies of iron supplementation, in individuals with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). PubMed, Ovid, EMBASE and Web of Knowledge were searched on 4 July 2012. Quantitative appraisal of trials was performed using Jadad's score. Most (n = 20) of the retrieved studies assessed an index of peripheral iron status (i.e., serum ferritin), with overall mixed results - that is, both significant and nonsignificant association between ADHD symptoms and serum ferritin levels. One MRI study reported significantly lower indices of thalamic iron in ADHD versus comparison subjects. Two trials, an open-label and a pilot randomized placebo-controlled study with high Jaded score (4), showed improvement in some but not all measures of ADHD symptoms. Three studies showed that children with ADHD plus sleep disorders, in particular restless legs syndrome, are at risk of iron deficiency. Finally, two studies suggested that iron deficiency might decrease the effectiveness of psychostimulant treatment. The authors discussed how the field could move from initial research mainly focused on serum ferritin towards a more comprehensive and translational investigation of iron in ADHD, with the potential to inform clinical practice in terms of screening and treating iron deficiency in individuals with ADHD.
Neurexin-1 (NRXN1) and neuroligin-1 (NLGN1) are synaptic cell adhesion molecules that connect pre- and postsynaptic neurons at synapses and mediate signaling across the synapse, which modulates synaptic activity and determines the properties of neuronal networks. Defects in the genes encoding NLGN1 have been linked to cognitive diseases such as autism. The roles of both NRXN1 and NLGN1 during synaptogenesis have been studied extensively, but little is known about the role of these molecules in neuritogenesis, which eventually results in neuronal circuitry formation. The present study investigated the neuritogenic effect of NLGN1 in cultures of hippocampal neurons. Our results show that NLGN1, both in soluble and membrane-bound forms, induces neurite outgrowth that depends on the interaction with NRXN1 and on activation of fibroblast growth factor receptor-1. In addition, we demonstrate that a synthetic peptide, termed neurolide, which is modeled after a part of the binding interface of NLGN1 for NRXN1, can bind to NRXN1 and mimic the biological properties of NLGN1 in vitro.
Turner syndrome (TS) is a complex developmental disorder in individuals with short stature who possess a 45,X cell line, with or without mosaicism. Because the single X chromosome is maternally derived in 80% of patients, the genesis of the 45,X karyotype is due to instability of the Y chromosome leading to its loss during meiosis. Phenotypic features vary depending on the mode of ascertainment, with postnatal presentation usually generating a more severe phenotype than a prenatal one. Although patients with pure 45,X present with delayed puberty more often than those with mosaicism for 46,XX or 47,XXX cell lines, the chromosomal complement cannot reliably predict the clinical presentation. Most living TS patients are mosaics, whereas nearly all first-trimester TS fetuses have a single 45,X cell line. Exclusion of a Y cell line, the presence of which increases the risk of gonadoblastomas and subsequent gonadal germ cell tumors, is best accomplished by karyotype, fluorescence in situ hybridization, and DNA analysis if necessary. The precise genetic etiology of TS has not been elucidated, but it does appear that deletion of the short arm of the X chromosome is sufficient to result in the TS phenotype, thereby implicating haploinsufficiency of multiple genes, including SHOX.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and extracellular adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) participate in autocrine and paracrine regulation in skeletal muscle. However, the link between these two signaling systems is not well established. Here, we studied cell proliferation as a possible consequence of the trophic effect of ATP in cultured skeletal mouse myoblasts and we tested the possibility that low concentrations of ROS represent the intermediate signaling molecule mediating this effect. Exposure to 10 M ATP increased proliferation of mouse myoblasts by ~20%. ATP also induced intracellular Ca(2+) oscillations, which were independent of extracellular Ca(2+). Both effects of ATP were prevented by suramin, a broad-spectrum purinergic P2 receptor antagonist. In contrast, the adenosine receptor blocker CGS-15943 did not modify the ATP-mediated effects. Consistent with this, adenosine per se did not change myoblast growth, indicating the direct action of ATP via P2 receptor activation. The proliferative effect of ATP was prevented after depletion of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) by the peroxidase enzyme catalase. Low-micromolar concentrations of exogenous H(2)O(2) mimicked the stimulatory effect of ATP on myoblast growth. DCF imaging revealed ATP-induced catalase and DPI-sensitive ROS production in myoblasts. In conclusion, our results indicate that extracellular ATP controls mouse myoblast proliferation via induction of ROS generation.
Beside their genomic mode of action, estrogens also activate a variety of cellular signaling pathways through non-genomic mechanisms. Until recently, little was known regarding the functional significance of such actions in males and the mechanisms that control local estrogen concentration with a spatial and time resolution compatible with these non-genomic actions had rarely been examined. Here, we review evidence that estrogens rapidly modulate a variety of behaviors in male vertebrates. Then, we present in vitro work supporting the existence of a control mechanism of local brain estrogen synthesis by aromatase along with in vivo evidence that rapid changes in aromatase activity also occur in a region-specific manner in response to changes in the social or environmental context. Finally, we suggest that the brain estrogen provision may also play a significant role in females. Together these data bolster the hypothesis that brain-derived estrogens should be considered as neuromodulators.
This review focuses on the effects of estrogens upon the cerebellum, a brain region long ignored as a site of estrogen action. Highlighted are the diverse effects of estradiol within the cerebellum, emphasizing the importance of estradiol signaling in cerebellar development, modulation of synaptic neurotransmission in the adult, and the potential influence of estrogens on various health and disease states. We also provide new data, consistent with previous studies, in which locally synthesized estradiol modulates cerebellar glutamatergic neurotransmission, providing one underlying mechanism by which the actions of estradiol can affect this brain region.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) tractography and image registration were used to investigate a patient with a massive left-sided brain tumor, whose size was largely disproportionate to his subtle neurological deficits. MRI was obtained from the patient and his healthy identical twin, who acted as anatomical reference for DTI and as a control for quantitative measures. To compensate for the patient's altered anatomy, seed and way points for probabilistic tractography were drawn on the color-coded direction maps of the healthy twin. Registration, based on the combination of b0-images, T2-weighted and T1-weighted images, was used to identify the corresponding regions in the patient. The corticospinal tract (CST), the superior longitudinal fasciculus (SLF), and the cingulum bundle (CB) showed displaced anatomy. A significant difference was found between fractional anisotropy distribution along the left SLF and CB, but not along the CST. These findings fit well with the patient's substantial preservation of his motor abilities, while abnormalities of the SLF and CB could explain the subtle but detectable cognitive deficits.
Fluctuation is a common feature of all psychogenic gait disorder (PGD) patterns. Whether this fluctuation involves only the degree of impairment or whether it affects the gait pattern itself remains an interesting question. We hypothesize that, on repeated measurements, both normal and abnormal gait may present quantitative differences while maintaining their basic underlying pattern; conversely, in psychogenic gait, the basic pattern appears not to be preserved. Using an optoelectronic system, data acquired from 19 normal subjects and 66 patients were applied to train a neural network (NN) and subsequently classify gait patterns into four different groups (normal, ataxic, spastic-paraparetic and parkinsonian). Five patients who fulfilled clinical criteria for psychogenic gait and six controls were then prospectively evaluated on two separate occasions, three months apart. Normal controls and ataxic, parkinsonian or spastic patients were correctly identified by the NN, and categorized within the corresponding groups at baseline as well as at a three-month follow-up evaluation. NN analysis showed that after three months, no PGD patient preserved the gait pattern detected at baseline, even though this finding was not clinically apparent. Modification of gait pattern detected by repeated kinematic measurement and NN analysis could suggest the presence of PGD, particularly in difficult-to-diagnose cases.
Individual variation in physiological responsiveness to stress mediates risk for mental illness and is influenced by both experiential and genetic factors. Common polymorphisms in the human gene for FK506 binding protein 5 (FKBP5), which is involved in transcriptional regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, have been shown to interact with childhood abuse and trauma to predict stress-related psychopathology. In the current study, we examined if such gene-environment interaction effects may be related to variability in the threat-related reactivity of the amygdala, which plays a critical role in mediating physiological and behavioral adaptations to stress including modulation of the HPA axis. To this end, 139 healthy Caucasian youth completed a blood oxygen level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging probe of amygdala reactivity and self-report assessments of emotional neglect (EN) and other forms of maltreatment. These individuals were genotyped for 6 FKBP5 polymorphisms (rs7748266, rs1360780, rs9296158, rs3800373, rs9470080 and rs9394309) previously associated with psychopathology and/or HPA axis function. Interactions between each SNP and EN emerged such that risk alleles predicted relatively increased dorsal amygdala reactivity in the context of higher EN, even after correcting for multiple testing. Two different haplotype analyses confirmed this relationship as haplotypes with risk alleles also exhibited increased amygdala reactivity in the context of higher EN. Our results suggest that increased threat-related amygdala reactivity may represent a mechanism linking psychopathology to interactions between common genetic variants affecting HPA axis function and childhood trauma.
The three major human apoE isoforms (apoE2, apoE3 and apoE4) are encoded by distinct alleles (2, 3 and 4). Compared with 3, 4 is associated with increased risk to develop Alzheimer's disease (AD), cognitive impairments in Parkinson's disease (PD), and other conditions. In contrast, a recent study indicated an increased susceptibility to the recurring and re-experiencing symptom cluster of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), as well as related memory impairments, in patients carrying at least one 2 allele. Contextual fear conditioning and extinction are used in human and animal models to study this symptom cluster. In this study, acquisition (day 1, training), consolidation (day 2, first day of re-exposure) and extinction (days 2-5) of conditioned contextual fear in human apoE2, apoE3 and apoE4 targeted replacement and C57BL/6J wild-type (WT) mice was investigated. Male and female apoE2 showed acquisition and retrieval of conditioned fear, but failed to exhibit extinction. In contrast, WT, apoE3 and apoE4 mice showed extinction. While apoE2 mice exhibited lower freezing in response to the context on day 2 than apoE3 and apoE4 mice, this cannot explain their extinction deficit as WT mice exhibited similar freezing levels as apoE2 mice on day 2 but still exhibited extinction. Elevating freezing through extended training preserved extinction in controls, but failed to ameliorate extinction deficits in apoE2 animals. These data along with clinical data showing an association of apoE2 with susceptibility to specific symptom clusters in PTSD supports an important role for apoE isoform in the extinction of conditioned fear.
There are sex differences in free-running rhythms, activity level and activity distribution that are attributed, in part, to the action of gonadal hormones. We tested the hypothesis that non-classical estrogenic signaling pathways at estrogen receptor subtype 1 (ESR1) modify the amplitude and phase of activity. We used ESR1 knock-out mice (ERKO) and non-classical estrogen receptor knock-in mice (NERKI). ERKO animals are unable to respond to estrogen at the ESR1 and NERKI animals lack the ability to respond to estrogens via the estrogen response element-mediated pathway, but can still respond via non-classical mechanisms. We compared intact male and female ERKO, NERKI and wildtype (WT) mice with respect to total wheel-running activity, activity distribution across the 24-h day, phase angle of activity onset and free-running period () and the duration of activity in constant conditions. WT females had significantly greater activity than WT males, and this activity was more consolidated to the dark phase of the light:dark cycle. These sex differences were absent in the NERKI and ERKO animals. Among females, NERKI and ERKO animals had greater activity during the light phase than WT counterparts. Additionally, we have identified a novel contribution of non-classical estrogen signaling pathways on the distribution of activity. Our data suggest that total activity is ESR1-dependent and daily activity patterns depend on both classical and non-classical actions of estrogens. These data will aid in identifying the mechanisms underlying sex differences in sleep-wake cycles and the influence of steroid hormones on circadian patterns.
Recognizing and avoiding aversive situations are central aspects of mammalian cognition. These abilities are essential for health and survival and are expected to have a prominent genetic basis. We modeled these abilities in eight common mouse inbred strains covering 75% of the species' natural variation and in gene-trap mice (&gt;2000 mice), using an unsupervised, automated assay with an instrumented home cage (PhenoTyper) containing a shelter with two entrances. Mice visited this shelter for 20-1200 times/24 h and 71% of all mice developed a significant and often strong preference for one entrance. Subsequently, a mild aversive stimulus (shelter illumination) was automatically delivered when mice used their preferred entrance. Different genotypes developed different coping strategies. Firstly, the number of entries via the preferred entrance decreased in DBA/2J, C57BL/6J and 129S1/SvImJ, indicating that these genotypes associated one specific entrance with the aversive stimulus. Secondly, mice started sleeping outside (C57BL/6J, DBA/2J), indicating they associated the shelter, in general, with the aversive stimulus. Some mice showed no evidence for an association between the entrance and the aversive light, but did show markedly shorter shelter residence times in response to illumination, indicating they did perceive illumination as aversive. Finally, using this assay, we screened 43 different mutants, which yielded a novel gene, specc1/cytospinB. This mutant showed profound and specific delay in avoidance learning. Together, these data suggest that different genotypes express distinct learning and/or memory of associations between shelter entrance and aversive stimuli, and that specc1/cytospinB is involved in this aspect of cognition.
The fne (found-in-neurons) locus encodes one of the three paralogs of the ELAV gene family of Drosophila melanogaster. Members of this family are found throughout metazoans and encode RNA-binding proteins with primarily neuronal localization, but with remarkably diverse functions given their high level of amino acid sequence conservation. The first identified member of the family, elav of Drosophila is a vital gene. Mutations in the second Drosophila elav paralog, rbp9, are viable but female sterile. No alleles of fne were previously available. FNE protein is normally present in the cytoplasm of all neurons throughout development. Here we describe the generation and characterization of fne(null) mutations by homologous recombination. In contrast to elav and similar to rbp9, fne(null) mutants are viable, but exhibit a specific and fully penetrant fusion of the -lobes in their mushroom bodies (MB), a paired neuropil of the central brain involved in a variety of complex behaviors. Mutant males have reduced courtship indices, but normal short- and long-term courtship memory. Our data show that fne has specific functions which are non-overlapping with the other two family members, namely in courtship behavior and in the development of the adult MB. The data further show that courtship memory does not require intact -lobes in the MB.
Polycomb repressive complexes (PRCs) establish and maintain gene repression through chromatin modifications, but their specific roles in cell fate determination events are poorly understood. Here we show an essential role for the PRC1 component Bmi1 in motor neuron (MN) subtype differentiation through dose-dependent effects on Hox gene expression. While Bmi1 is dispensable for generating MNs as a class, it has an essential role in specifying and determining the position of Hox-dependent MN columnar and pool subtypes. These actions are mediated through limiting anterior Hox expression boundaries, functions deployed in post-mitotic MNs, temporally downstream from morphogen gradients. Within the HoxC gene cluster, we found a progressive depletion of PRC-associated marks from rostral to caudal levels of the spinal cord, corresponding to major demarcations of MN subtypes. Selective ablation of Bmi1 elicits a derepression of more posterior Hox genes, leading to a switch in MN fates. Unexpectedly, Hox patterns and MN fates appear to be sensitive to absolute PRC1 activity levels; while reducing Bmi1 switches forelimb lateral motor column (LMC) MNs to a thoracic preganglionic (PGC) identity, elevating Bmi1 expression at thoracic levels converts PGC to LMC MNs. These results suggest that graded PRC1 activities are essential in determining MN topographic organization.
The Drosophila transmembrane semaphorin-1a (Sema-1a) is a repulsive guidance cue that uses the Plexin A (PlexA) receptor during neural development. Sema-1a is required in axons to facilitate motor axon defasciculation at guidance choice points. We found that mutations in the trol gene strongly suppress Sema-1a-mediated repulsive axon guidance. trol encodes the phylogenetically conserved secreted heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG) perlecan, a component of the extracellular matrix. Motor axon guidance defects in perlecan mutants resemble those observed in Sema-1a- and PlexA-null mutant embryos, and perlecan mutants genetically interact with PlexA and Sema-1a. Perlecan protein is found in both the CNS and the periphery, with higher expression levels in close proximity to motor axon trajectories and pathway choice points. Restoring perlecan to mutant motor neurons rescues perlecan axon guidance defects. Perlecan augments the reduction in phospho-focal adhesion kinase (phospho-FAK) levels that result from treating insect cells in vitro with Sema-1a, and genetic interactions among integrin, Sema-1a, and FAK in vivo support an antagonistic relationship between Sema-1a and integrin signaling. Therefore, perlecan is required for Sema-1a-PlexA-mediated repulsive guidance, revealing roles for extracellular matrix proteoglycans in modulating transmembrane guidance cue signaling during neural development.
The chemotrophic factor Netrin can simultaneously instruct different neurodevelopmental programs in individual neurons in vivo. How neurons correctly interpret the Netrin signal and undergo the appropriate neurodevelopmental response is not understood. Here we identify MIG-10 isoforms as critical determinants of individual cellular responses to Netrin. We determined that distinct MIG-10 isoforms, varying only in their N-terminal motifs, can localize to specific subcellular domains and are differentially required for discrete neurodevelopmental processes in vivo. We identified MIG-10B as an isoform uniquely capable of localizing to presynaptic regions and instructing synaptic vesicle clustering in response to Netrin. MIG-10B interacts with Abl-interacting protein-1 (ABI-1)/Abi1, a component of the WAVE complex, to organize the actin cytoskeleton at presynaptic sites and instruct vesicle clustering through SNN-1/Synapsin. We identified a motif in the MIG-10B N-terminal domain that is required for its function and localization to presynaptic sites. With this motif, we engineered a dominant-negative MIG-10B construct that disrupts vesicle clustering and animal thermotaxis behavior when expressed in a single neuron in vivo. Our findings indicate that the unique N-terminal domains confer distinct MIG-10 isoforms with unique capabilities to localize to distinct subcellular compartments, organize the actin cytoskeleton at these sites, and instruct distinct Netrin-dependent neurodevelopmental programs.
Hundreds of gene families expanded in the early vertebrate tetraploidizations including many gene families in the phototransduction cascade. We have investigated the evolution of the heterotrimeric G-proteins of photoreceptors, the transducins, in relation to these events using both phylogenetic analyses and synteny comparisons. Three alpha subunit genes were identified in amniotes and the coelacanth, GNAT1-3; two of these were identified in amphibians and teleost fish, GNAT1 and GNAT2. Most tetrapods have four beta genes, GNB1-4, and teleosts have additional duplicates. Finally, three gamma genes were identified in mammals, GNGT1, GNG11 and GNGT2. Of these, GNGT1 and GNGT2 were found in the other vertebrates. In frog and zebrafish additional duplicates of GNGT2 were identified. Our analyses show all three transducin families expanded during the early vertebrate tetraploidizations and the beta and gamma families gained additional copies in the teleost-specific genome duplication. This suggests that the tetraploidizations contributed to visual specialisations.
This review focuses on the possible relevance of 14-3-3 proteins in geriatric neuroscience. 14-3-3 proteins are mainly localized in the synapses and neuronal cytoplasm. These proteins regulate intracellular signal cascades for differentiation, development, growth, apoptosis and survival. Seven isoforms have so far been identified in mammals. The binding motifs and potential functions of 14-3-3 proteins are now recognized to have a wide range of functional relevance. First, we provide a brief summary of the molecular structure and multiple functions of 14-3-3 proteins. Second, we review the involvement of 14-3-3 proteins in common diseases of geriatric neurology, such as Alzheimer's disease and tauopathies, Parkinson's disease and -synucleinopathies, Huntington's disease and polyglutamine diseases, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and prion diseases, cerebral infarction, and atherosclerosis. Finally, we discuss the immunohistochemical localization of 14-3-3 proteins and its isoforms during the postnatal development of rat brains as a basis for understanding adult neurogenesis. The elucidation of the isoform-dependent functions of 14-3-3 proteins with regard to brain development might be promising for the future development of novel therapeutic interventions for common diseases of geriatric neurology.

Much is still unknown about mechanisms underlying the phenotypical and functional versatility of human microglia. Therefore, we developed a rapid procedure to isolate pure microglia from postmortem human brain tissue and studied their immediate ex vivo phenotype and responses to key inflammatory mediators. Microglia were isolated, along with macrophages from the choroid plexus by tissue dissociation, density gradient separation, and selection with magnetic microbeads. By flow cytometry, microglia were identified by a CD11b(+) CD45(dim) phenotype and a smaller size compared with CD11b(+) CD45(high) macrophages. Interestingly, white matter microglia from donors with peripheral inflammation displayed elevated CD45 levels and increased size and granularity, but were still distinct from macrophages. The phenotype of isolated microglia was further specified by absent surface expression of CD14, CD200 receptor, and mannose receptor (MR, CD206), all of which were markedly expressed by macrophages. Microglia stimulated immediately after isolation with LPS and IFN failed to upregulate TNF or CCR7. Notably, responsiveness to LPS and IFN was clearly instigated in microglia after overnight preculture, which coincided with a strong upregulation of CD14. Culture of microglia with IL-4 resulted in the induction of HLA-DR and CCL18 but not MR, whereas culture with dexamethasone did induce MR, in addition to CD163 and CCL18. In conclusion, this study demonstrates phenotypic changes of microglia associated with peripheral inflammation, and reveals tight regulation of responses to LPS and IFN as well as distinct microglial responses to IL-4 and glucocorticoids. These findings are of high relevance to studies on human microglia functioning in health and disease.
Type I interferons (IFN/) provide a primary defense against infection. Nevertheless, the dynamics of IFN/ induction and responsiveness by central nervous system (CNS) resident cells in vivo in response to viral infections are poorly understood. Mice were infected with a neurotropic coronavirus with tropism for oligodendroglia and microglia to probe innate antiviral responses during acute encephalomyelitis. Expression of genes associated with the IFN/ pathways was monitored in microglia and oligodendroglia purified from nave and infected mice by fluorescent activated cell sorting. Compared with microglia, oligodendroglia were characterized by low basal expression of mRNA encoding viral RNA sensing pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), IFN/ receptor chains, interferon sensitive genes (ISG), as well as kinases and transcription factors critical in IFN/ signaling. Although PRRs and ISGs were upregulated by infection in both cell types, the repertoire and absolute mRNA levels were more limited in oligodendroglia. Furthermore, although oligodendroglia harbored higher levels of viral RNA compared with microglia, Ifn/ was only induced in microglia. Stimulation with the double stranded RNA analogue poly I:C also failed to induce Ifn/ in oligodendroglia, and resulted in reduced and delayed induction of ISGs compared with microglia. The limited antiviral response by oligodendroglia was associated with a high threshold for upregulation of Ikk and Irf7 transcripts, both central to amplifying IFN/ responses. Overall, these data reveal that oligodendroglia from the adult CNS are poor sensors of viral infection and suggest they require exogenous IFN/ to establish an antiviral state.
A prominent signaling pathway in the development of neuropathic pain involves ATP acting on microglial purinergic receptors. Among the P2Y metabotropic receptors, we reported before that the P2Y12 receptor is upregulated in microglia following nerve injury and involved in the phosphorylation of p38 MAPK, and in the development of pain behavior. In this study, we examined the expression of P2Y6, P2Y13, and P2Y14 receptors in the spinal cord and whether these receptors are involved in the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain following peripheral nerve injury. We found that spared nerve injury induced a dramatic increase of not only P2Y12, but also P2Y6, 13, and 14 receptor mRNA expression in spinal microglia. The increase continued for at least 2 weeks after injury. To determine whether p38 MAPK can induce the expression of P2Y receptors, we administered intrathecally the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB203580 and found that it significantly suppressed P2Y6, P2Y13, and P2Y14 but not P2Y12 mRNAs. Intrathecal injection of the specific P2Y6 antagonist MRS2578, specific P2Y13 antagonist MRS2211 or P2Y14 antisense LNA, attenuated mechanical pain hypersensitivity. The mixture of three antagonists for P2Y6, 12, and 13 showed a longer suppressive effect on pain behavior than the individual treatments. Our data demonstrate that ATP and other nucleotides may stimulate activated microglia with the upregulation of P2Y6, P2Y12, P2Y13, and P2Y14 receptors following nerve injury and these receptors are involved in the development of neuropathic pain.

Isoflurane is a volatile inhaled anaesthetic widely used in animal research, with particular utility for hearing research. Isoflurane has been shown to blunt hearing sensitivity compared with the awake state, but little is known about how isoflurane compares with other anaesthetics with regard to hair cell transduction and auditory neurotransmission. The current study was undertaken in C57Bl/6J and C129/SvEv strains of mice to determine whether isoflurane anaesthesia affects hearing function relative to ketamine-based anaesthesia. Cochlear function and central auditory transmission were assessed using auditory brainstem response (ABR) and distortion product otoacoustic emission (DPOAE), comparing thresholds and input/output functions over time, for isoflurane vs. ketamine/xylazine/acepromazine anaesthesia. ABR thresholds at the most sensitive region of hearing (16kHz) were initially higher under isoflurane anaesthesia. This reduced hearing sensitivity worsened over the 1h study period, and also became evident with broadband click stimulus. Ketamine anaesthesia provided stable ABR thresholds. Although the growth functions were unchanged over time for both anaesthetics, the slopes under isoflurane anaesthesia were significantly less. Cubic (2f(1)-f(2)) DPOAE thresholds and growth functions were initially similar for both anaesthetics. After 60min, DPOAE thresholds increased for both groups, but this effect was significantly greater with ketamine anaesthesia. The isoflurane-mediated increase in ABR thresholds over time is attributable to action on cochlear nerve activation, evident as a right-shift in the P1-N1 input/output function compared to K/X/A. The ketamine-based anaesthetic produced stable ABR thresholds and gain over time, despite a right-shift in the outer hair cell - mediated DPOAE input/output function.
Glutamate has been implicated in signal transmission between inner hair cells and afferent fibers of the organ of Corti. The inner hair cells are enriched in glutamate and the postsynaptic membranes express AMPA glutamate receptors. However, it is not known whether inner hair cells contain a mechanism for glutamate replenishment. Such a mechanism must be in place to sustain glutamate neurotransmission. Here we provide RT-PCR and immunofluorescence data indicating that system A transporter 1 (SLC38A1), which is associated with neuronal glutamine transport and synthesis of the neurotransmitters GABA and glutamate in CNS, is expressed in inner hair cells. It was previously shown that inner hair cells contain glutaminase that converts glutamine to glutamate. Thus, our finding that inner hair cells express a glutamine transporter and the key glutamine metabolizing enzyme glutaminase, provides a mechanism for glutamate replenishment and bolsters the idea that glutamate serves as a transmitter in the peripheral synapse of the auditory system.
Rats with combined lesions of the perirhinal (PER) and postrhinal (POR) cortices were trained on a complex discrimination in the simultaneous feature-positive and feature-negative discrimination task. In this task, a panel light (L) paired with an auditory stimulus determined whether a tone (T) or white noise (N) would be rewarded (+) or not rewarded (-). Thus, the light feature determined whether the target auditory stimuli were rewarded or not. In each session, trial types were LT+, T-, N+, and LN-. We had hypothesized that damage to the target regions would impair performance on this task. Acquisition was altered in the lesioned rats, but not in the predicted direction. Instead, lesioned rats exhibited significantly enhanced acquisition of the discrimination. Manipulation of intertrial intervals indicated that reduction of proactive interference did not explain the enhancement. Lesioned rats were not different from controls on a multiple-cued interval timing task, providing evidence that the enhancement does not extend to all types of discriminations and is not due to a deficit in timing. Other research shows that rats with PER lesions are impaired on similar tasks, thus the enhancement is likely due to the effects of POR damage. Normally in this task, context is thought to accrue inhibitory control over other cues. Without this inhibitory control, animals might be expected to learn the task more efficiently. Our conclusion is that deficits in processing contextual information underlie the enhanced acquisition observed in rats with combined PER and POR damage on this complex discrimination task.
In recent years, stem cell-mediated therapies have gained considerable ground as potential treatments for a wide variety of brain pathologies including traumatic brain injury, stroke and neurodegenerative diseases. Despite extensive preclinical studies, many of these therapies have not been fully translated into viable clinical approaches. This is partly due to our inability to reliably track and monitor transplanted stem cells longitudinally over long periods of time in vivo. In this review, we discuss the predominant histological cell tracing methodologies, such as immunohistochemistry, and fluorescent cellular dyes and proteins, and compare them to emerging cellular imaging technologies. We show that advances in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have resulted in opportunities to use this technology to further our understanding of stem cell characteristics and behaviors in vivo. While MRI may not completely replace conventional cell tracking methods in pre-clinical, mechanistic work, it is clear that it has the potential to function as a powerful diagnostic tool for tracking stem cell migration and survival as well as for evaluating the efficacy of stem cell-mediated therapies.
Current theories suggest that disrupting cortical information integration may account for the mechanism of general anesthesia in suppressing consciousness. Human cognitive operations take place in hierarchically structured neural organizations in the brain. The process of low-order neural representation of sensory stimuli becoming integrated in high-order cortices is also known as cognitive binding. Combining neuroimaging, cognitive neuroscience, and anesthetic manipulation, we examined how cognitive networks involved in auditory verbal memory are maintained in wakefulness, disrupted in propofol-induced deep sedation, and re-established in recovery. Inspired by the notion of cognitive binding, an functional magnetic resonance imaging-guided connectivity analysis was utilized to assess the integrity of functional interactions within and between different levels of the task-defined brain regions. Task-related responses persisted in the primary auditory cortex (PAC), but vanished in the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and premotor areas in deep sedation. For connectivity analysis, seed regions representing sensory and high-order processing of the memory task were identified in the PAC and IFG. Propofol disrupted connections from the PAC seed to the frontal regions and thalamus, but not the connections from the IFG seed to a set of widely distributed brain regions in the temporal, frontal, and parietal lobes (with exception of the PAC). These later regions have been implicated in mediating verbal comprehension and memory. These results suggest that propofol disrupts cognition by blocking the projection of sensory information to high-order processing networks and thus preventing information integration. Such findings contribute to our understanding of anesthetic mechanisms as related to information and integration in the brain.
Being looked at by a person enhances the subsequent memorability of her/his identity. Here, we tested the specificity of this effect and its underlying brain processes. We manipulated three social cues displayed by an agent: Gaze Direction (Direct/Averted), Emotional Expression (Anger/Neutral), and Pointing gesture (Presence/Absence). Our behavioral experiment showed that direct as compared with averted gaze perception enhanced subsequent retrieval of face identity. Similar effect of enhanced retrieval was found when pointing finger was absent as compared with present but not for anger as compared with neutral expression. The fMRI results revealed amygdala activity for both Anger and Direct gaze conditions, suggesting emotional arousal. Yet, the right hippocampus, known to play a role in self-relevant memory processes, was only revealed during direct gaze perception. Further investigations suggest that right hippocampal activity was maximal for the most self-relevant social event (i.e. actor expressing anger and pointing toward the participant with direct gaze). Altogether, our results suggest that the perception of self-relevant social cues such as direct gaze automatically prompts &quot;self-relevant memory&quot; processes.
The G2019S leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) mutation is the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease (PD), clinically and pathologically indistinguishable from idiopathic PD. Mitochondrial abnormalities are a common feature in PD pathogenesis and we have investigated the impact of G2019S mutant LRRK2 expression on mitochondrial bioenergetics. LRRK2 protein expression was detected in fibroblasts and lymphoblasts at levels higher than those observed in the mouse brain. The presence of G2019S LRRK2 mutation did not influence LRRK2 expression in fibroblasts. However, the expression of the G2019S LRRK2 mutation in both fibroblast and neuroblastoma cells was associated with mitochondrial uncoupling. This was characterized by decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and increased oxygen utilization under basal and oligomycin-inhibited conditions. This resulted in a decrease in cellular ATP levels consistent with compromised cellular function. This uncoupling of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation was associated with a cell-specific increase in uncoupling protein (UCP) 2 and 4 expression. Restoration of mitochondrial membrane potential by the UCP inhibitor genipin confirmed the role of UCPs in this mechanism. The G2019S LRRK2-induced mitochondrial uncoupling and UCP4 mRNA up-regulation were LRRK2 kinase-dependent, whereas endogenous LRRK2 levels were required for constitutive UCP expression. We propose that normal mitochondrial function was deregulated by the expression of G2019S LRRK2 in a kinase-dependent mechanism that is a modification of the normal LRRK2 function, and this leads to the vulnerability of selected neuronal populations in PD.
Fast reaching movements are an important component of our daily interaction with the world and are consequently under investigation in many fields of science and engineering. Today, useful models are available for such studies, with tools for solving the inverse dynamics problem involved by these analyses. These tools generally provide a set of model parameters that allows an accurate and locally optimal reconstruction of the original movements. Although the solutions that they generate may provide a data curve fitting that is sufficient for some pattern recognition applications, the best possible solution is often necessary in others, particularly those involving neuroscience and biomedical signal processing. To generate these solutions, we present a globally optimal parameter extractor for the delta-lognormal modeling of reaching movements based on the branch-and-bound strategy. This algorithm is used to test the impact of white noise on the delta-lognormal modeling of reaching movements and to benchmark the state-of-the-art locally optimal algorithm. Our study shows that, even with globally optimal solutions, parameter averaging is important for obtaining reliable figures. It concludes that physiologically derived rules are necessary, in addition to global optimality, to achieve meaningful  extractions which can be used to investigate the control patterns of these movement primitives.



Dhat syndrome is a culture-bound syndrome prevalent in the natives of the Indian subcontinent characterized by excessive concern about harmful consequences of loss of semen (ICD-10). Treatment offered to the patients suffering from it continues to be esoteric, unstructured and without standardization. The present study aimed to develop and examine the feasibility of Cognitive - Behavior Therapy module for patients with Dhat syndrome. A draft module was developed based on existing theoretical knowledge and suggestions from five mental health professionals. This module was then applied on five patients with Dhat syndrome to assess and judge the suitability of the module. The pre and post-assessments were carried out using Sexual Knowledge and Attitude Questionnaire - II, Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, The Cognitive-Somatic Anxiety Scale, Screener for Somatoform Disorder, International Index for Erectile Function, Clinical Global Impressions, The World Health Organization Quality of Life Assessment - BREF. Experiences and insights gained from each patient were used to refine the module before applying on the next patient. The final module consisted of the following components was developed: Basic sex education, cognitive restructuring, relaxation training, imaginal desensitization, masturbatory training as homework and Kegel's exercises and 'start-stop technique' and 'squeeze technique' for sexual dysfunctions. Results of the study reveal that it is feasible to carry out the CBT module in clinical settings. Number of sessions ranged from 11 to 16 sessions. The duration of the session was 45 minutes on the average. Findings of the present study revealed improvement in sexual knowledge, anxiety, depressive and somatic symptoms. Implications and limitations of the study are highlighted and suggestions for future research offered.
Insomnia is a general clinical term that refers to a difficulty in initiating or maintaining sleep. Insomnia is widely prevalent in the general population, especially in the elderly and in those with medical and psychiatric disorders. Hypnotic drug treatments of insomnia are effective but are associated with potential disadvantages. This article presents an overview of behavioral interventions for insomnia. Behavioral interventions for insomnia include relaxation training, stimulus control therapy, sleep restriction therapy, sleep hygiene, paradoxical intention therapy, cognitive restructuring, and other approaches. These are briefly explained. Research indicates that behavioral interventions are efficacious, effective, and likely cost-effective treatments for insomnia that yield reliable, robust, and long-term benefits in adults of all ages. Detailed guidance is provided for the practical management of patients with insomnia.


Major mental disorders such as schizophrenia and affective disorders are highly disabling illnesses. The cultural factors that influence the diagnosis and treatment of these disorders are of paramount clinical significance. We attempted to critically review the cultural factors in relation to the epidemiology, phenomenology, treatment, and outcome of major mental disorders from an Indian perspective, and tried to compare these with the cultural factors identified in major international studies. The clinical expression of major mental disorders was noted to vary across cultures in the review. In addition, the outcome of major mental disorders is reported to be better in developing nations than in the developed countries. Transcultural variations are also noted to exist in pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, traditional healing practices, and psychotherapeutic approaches. The role of cultural factors in severe mental illnesses needs adequate attention from mental health professionals. Continued research on the cultural aspects is required to understand the interplay of all social, cultural, and biological factors. It is important to consider other cultural, traditional, and folk methods for understanding and management of mental illnesses.
Previous studies have implicated a role of G(i) proteins as co-regulators of Toll-like receptor (TLR) activation. These studies largely derived from examining the effect of G(i) protein inhibitors or genetic deletion of G(i) proteins. However, the effect of increased G(i) protein function or G(i) protein expression on TLR activation has not been investigated. We hypothesized that gain of function or increased expression of G(i) proteins suppresses TLR2- and TLR4-induced inflammatory cytokines. Novel transgenic mice with genomic &quot;knock-in&quot; of a regulator of G protein signaling (RGS)-insensitive Gnai2 allele (G(i2)(G184S/G184S) ; GS/GS) were employed. These mice express essentially normal levels of G(i2) protein; however, the G(i2) is insensitive to its negative regulator RGS thus rendering more sustained G(i2) protein activation following ligand/receptor binding. In subsequent studies, we generated Raw 264.7 cells that stably overexpress G(i2) protein (Raw G(i2)). Peritoneal macrophages, splenocytes, and mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) were isolated from WT and GS/GS mice and were stimulated with LPS, Pam3CSK4, or Poly (I:C). We also subjected WT and GS/GS mice to endotoxic shock (LPS, 25 mg/kg i.p.) and plasma tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) and interleukin (IL)-6 production were determined. We found that in vitro LPS and Pam3CSK4-induced TNF-, and IL-6 production are decreased in macrophages from GS/GS mice compared with WT mice (p&lt;0.05). In vitro, LPS and Pam3CSK4 induced IL-6 production in splenocytes, and in vivo, LPS-induced IL-6 were suppressed in GS/GS mice. Poly (I:C)-induced TNF-, and IL-6 in vitro demonstrated no difference between GS/GS mice and WT mice. LPS-induced IL-6 production was inhibited in MEFs from GS/GS mice similarly to macrophage and splenocytes. In parallel studies, Raw G(i2) cells also exhibit decreased TNF- and IL-6 production in response to LPS and Pam3CSK4. These studies support our hypothesis that G(i2) proteins are novel negative regulators of TLR activation.

We recently reported that overexpression of progastrin (PG) in embryonic epithelial cells (HEKmGAS cells) increased proliferation of the cells compared to that of control HEKC cells. Here, we report the novel finding that tumorigenic and metastatic potential of HEKmGAS cells is also increased significantly compared to that of HEKC cells. Cell surface-associated annexinA2 (CS-ANXA2) binds PG and is overexpressed on cancer cells, allowing us to successfully use fluorescently labeled PG peptide for enumerating metastatic lesions of transformed/cancer cells in vivo. Next, we examined the hypothesis that increased tumorigenic/metastatic potential of isogenic HEKmGAS versus HEKC cells maybe due to transformed phenotype of stem cells. FACSorting/FACScanning of cells demonstrated significant increases in percent doublecortin-CAM-kinase-like1 (DCLK1)/Lgr5-positive stem cells, coexpressing cluster of differentiation44 (CD44)/CS-ANXA2, in HEKmGAS versus HEKC cells. Distinct differences were noted in the morphology of HEKC versus HEKmGAS spheroidal growths on nonadherent cultures (selective for stem cells). HEKC spheroids were rounded with distinct perimeters (e.g., basement membranes), whereas HEKmGAS spheroids were amorphous with no perimeters. Relative levels of DCLK1/Lgr5/CD44 and ANXA2/-catenin/pNFBp65/metalloproteinases were significantly increased in HEKmGAS versus HEKC cells, growing as monolayer cultures, 3D spheroids (in vitro), or xenografts (in vivo). Interestingly, HEKC cells enriched for CS-ANXA2 developed amorphous spheroids, whereas downregulation of ANXA2 in HEKmGAS clones resulted in loss of matrixmetalloproteinases (MMPs) and re-formation of rounded spheroids, suggesting that high levels of CS-ANXA2/MMPs may impact spheroid morphology. Downregulation of DCLK1 significantly attenuated activation of -catenin, with loss of proliferation of HEKmGAS and HEKC cells, suggesting that DCLK1 is required for maintaining proliferation of cells. Our results suggest the novel possibility that transformed stem cells, unlike nontransformed stem cells, coexpress stem cell markers DCLK1 and CD44 with CS-ANXA2.
Opticospinal demyelinating diseases in humans are mostly characterized by the opticospinal form of multiple sclerosis (MS) and neuromyelitis optica (NMO). Increasing attention has recently focused on astrocyte markers, aquaporin-4 (AQP4) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in these diseases. We induced opticospinal demyelination in Brown Norway rats with soluble recombinant rat myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (1-116) and incomplete Freund's adjuvant. Clinical, MRI, neuropathological and immunological evaluations were performed, with a focus on AQP4 and GFAP. We confirmed the opticospinal phenotype, including extensive myelitis, but also showed the MRI-characterized involvement of the periventricular area. Expression levels of myelin, AQP4 and GFAP showed the early involvement of astrocytes before demyelination in the optic nerve. The overexpression of AQP4 was particularly pronounced in the spinal cord and was concomitant with demyelination and astrocyte apoptosis. The disability scores were correlated with demyelination and inflammation but not with AQP4/GFAP expression. No antibodies against the linear and conformational epitopes of AQP4 were detected. Whereas a NMO-like phenotype was observed in this model, the AQP4/GFAP expression during the disease process was more closely related to opticospinal MS than NMO. However, this model raises the question of a continuum between opticospinal MS and the seronegative NMO subtype.

There are currently no assessment tools that focus on evaluating patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) who are experiencing a relapse or that evaluate patients' response to acute relapse treatment. In practice, assessments are often subjective, potentially resulting in overlooked symptoms, unaddressed patient concerns, unnoticed or underrecognized side effects of therapies (both disease modifying and symptomatic), and suboptimal therapeutic response. Systematic evaluation of specific symptoms and potential side effects can minimize the likelihood of overlooking important information. However, given the number of potential symptoms and adverse events that patients may experience, an exhaustive evaluation can be time-consuming. Clinicians are thus challenged to balance thoroughness with brevity. A need exists for a brief but comprehensive objective assessment tool that can be used in practice to 1) help clinicians assess patients when they present with symptoms of a relapse, and 2) evaluate outcomes of acute management. A working group of expert nurses convened to discuss recognition and management of relapses. In this article, we review data related to recognition and management of relapses, discuss practical challenges, and describe the development of an assessment questionnaire that evaluates relapse symptoms, the impact of symptoms on the patient, and the effectiveness and tolerability of acute treatment. The questionnaire is designed to be appropriate for use in MS specialty clinics, general neurology practices, or other practice settings and can be administered by nurses, physicians, other clinicians, or patients (self-evaluation). The relapse assessment questionnaire is currently being piloted in a number of practice settings.
We have reported that clinically relevant concentrations of valproic acid (VPA) up-regulate the G-protein-coupled melatonin MT1 receptor in rat C6 glioma cells. To determine whether this effect occurs in vivo, the effects of chronic VPA treatment on the expression of both melatonin receptor subtypes, MT1 and MT2, were examined in the rat brain. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and real-time PCR analyses revealed significant increases in MT1 and MT2 mRNA expression in the hippocampus, following VPA (4 mg/ml drinking water) treatment for 17 d. Increases in the mRNA and protein expression of the novel neurotrophic factors, conserved dopamine neurotrophic factor and mesencephalic astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor, were detected in the hippocampus and/or striatum. In addition, significant changes in persephin, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA expression were observed. The robust multi-fold induction of MT1 and MT2 receptors in the hippocampus suggests a role for the melatonergic system in the psychotropic effects of VPA.
Chronic stress is a risk factor for depression, and chronic stress can induce cognitive impairments associated with prefrontal cortical dysfunction, which are also major components of depression. We have previously shown that 5 wk chronic intermittent cold (CIC) stress induced a reversal-learning deficit in rats, associated with reduced serotonergic transmission in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) that was restored by chronic treatment with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). However, the mechanisms underlying the beneficial cognitive effects of chronic SSRI treatment are currently unknown. Thus, the purpose of this study was to investigate the potential modulatory influence specifically of 5-HT2A receptors (5-HT2ARs) in the OFC on reversal learning, and their potential contribution to the beneficial cognitive effects of chronic SSRI treatment. Bilateral microinjections of the selective 5-HT2AR antagonist, MDL 100,907 into OFC (0.02-2.0 nmol) had a dose-dependent detrimental effect on a reversal-learning task, suggesting a facilitatory influence of 5-HT2ARs in the OFC. In the next experiment, rats were exposed to 5 wk CIC stress, which compromised reversal learning, and treated chronically with the SSRI, citalopram (20 mg/kg.d) during the final 3 wk of chronic stress. Chronic citalopram treatment improved reversal learning in the CIC-stressed rats, and bilateral microinjection of MDL 100,907 (0.20 nmol, the optimal dose from the preceding experiment) into OFC once again had a detrimental effect on reversal learning, opposing the beneficial effect of citalopram. We conclude that 5-HT2ARs in the OFC facilitate reversal learning, and potentially contribute to the beneficial cognitive effects of chronic SSRI treatment.
Deficits in prefrontal cortical activity are consistent observations in a number of psychiatric diseases with two major regions consistently implicated being the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), regions that carry out independent, but complementary forms of cognitive processing in changing environmental conditions. Information from the prefrontal cortex is integrated in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) to guide goal-directed behaviour. Anatomical studies have demonstrated that distinct prefrontal cortical regions provide an overlapping but distinct innervation of NAc subregions; however, how information from these distinct regions regulates NAc output has not been conclusively demonstrated. Here we demonstrate that, while neurons receiving convergent glutamatergic inputs from the mPFC and OFC have a synergistic effect on single-spike firing, medium spiny neurons that receive a monosynaptic input from only one region are actually inhibited by activation of the complementary region. Therefore, the mPFC and OFC negatively regulate evoked activity within the lateral and medial regions of the NAc, respectively, and exist in a state of balance with respect to their influence on information processing within ventral striatal circuits.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH)-induced brain injury is highly related to neurological deficits and mortality. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) changes and vasoconstriction are two complications that occur soon after SAH experimentally. In this study we investigated the changes in rCBF and vertebro-basilar arterial diameter in a cisterna megna SAH model in Sprague-Dawley rats and intended to explore whether improving early rCBF reduction and cerebral vasospasm could contribute to alleviating blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction. In rats for rCBF, vasospasm and BBB permeability assessments, nimodipine (NDP) or saline was administered intravenously 5 minutes after SAH. rCBF within the first 60 minutes after SAH was measured by laser Doppler flowmetry. BBB permeability indexed by Evans Blue extravasation was assessed 4 hours after SAH. Angiography for the caliber changes of the vertebro-basilar artery were conducted 30 minutes post SAH. Pronounced rCBF reduction and vasospasm were observed soon after SAH, followed by BBB permeability increment. NDP administration could improve rCBF and attenuate vasospasm, followed by the alleviation of BBB permeability. Our results demonstrate that early improvement of cerebral circulation by NDP may contribute to the reduction in brain injury indexed by BBB disruption.



There is mounting evidence that shows how poorly non-contrast computed tomography (NCCT) Alberta Stroke Program Early CT Score (ASPECTS) performs in the first three-hours after stroke onset compared to Diffusion weighted (DWI) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). It is time to move into the 21st century and use more advanced imaging routinely in hyper-acute stroke assessment. While a useful tool if one is limited to NCCT alone, ASPECTS becomes somewhat superfluous as we now have rapid, validated, automated infarct core and penumbra volumes with either MRI or perfusion CT.
Stroke is a risk factor for dementia and dementia predisposes to stroke. Dementia prevalence in subjects with stroke is comparable with that seen in stroke-free subjects who are 10 years older. Although overall there is heterogeneity between studies of prestroke and poststroke dementia, stratifying by study method and clinical criteria (e.g. inclusion/exclusion of prestroke dementia, first ever vs. any vs. recurrent stroke) results in reasonably consistent estimates. Pooled dementia rates from studies of consecutive patients hospitalized with stroke indicate that around 10% have dementia prior to first stroke and 10% have new dementia in the first year after first-ever stroke with highest rates (over 30%) seen after recurrent stroke. After the immediate high-risk poststroke period, rates of new incident dementia are lower but remain elevated at around four times the background risk. Factors associated with prestroke and poststroke dementia are broadly similar but age, medial temporal lobe atrophy, female sex, and family history are more strongly associated with prestroke dementia suggesting a greater role for degenerative pathology. Poststroke dementia is associated with factors indicating a reduced cognitive reserve (prestroke cognitive decline, premorbid disability, low education, white matter disease, and atrophy) and is also strongly associated with stroke factors (lesion size, multiple lesions, and stroke recurrence) and complications of stroke (delirium, seizures, hypotension, systemic illness and incontinence) indicating the likely impact of optimal acute stroke care and secondary prevention in reducing the burden of dementia. Future studies are needed to clarify the interaction between degenerative, vascular, and systemic processes in the development of stroke-associated dementia.
Stem cell therapy holds great promise in medicine, but clinical development should be based on a sound understanding of potential weaknesses in supporting experimental data. The aim of this article was to provide a systematic overview of evidence relating to the efficacy of stem cell-based therapies in animal models of stroke to foster the clinical application of stem cell-based therapies and to inform the design of large-scale clinical trials. We conducted a systematic search for reports of experiments using stem cells in animal models of cerebral ischaemia, and performed DerSimmonian and Laird random effects meta-analysis. We assessed the impact of study characteristics, of publication bias and of measures to reduce bias. We identified 6059 publications, 117 met our prespecified inclusion criteria. One hundred eighty-seven experiments using 2332 animals described changes in structural outcome and 192 experiments using 2704 animals described changes in functional outcome. Median study quality score was 4 (interquartile range 3 to 6) and less than half of studies reported randomization or blinded outcome assessment; only three studies reported a sample size calculation. Nonrandomized studies gave significantly higher estimates of improvement in structural outcome, and there was evidence of a significant publication bias. For structural outcome autologous (i.e. self-derived) stem cells were more effective than allogeneic (donor-derived) cells, but for functional outcome, the reverse was true. A significant dose-response relationship was observed only for structural outcome. For structural outcome, there was an absolute reduction in efficacy of 15% (-24 to -06) for each days delay to treatment; functional outcome was independent of the time of administration. While stem cells appear to be of some benefit in animal models of stroke the internal and external validity of this literature is potentially confounded by poor study quality and by publication bias. The clinical development of stem cell-based therapies, in stroke and elsewhere, should acknowledge these potential weaknesses in the supporting animal data.


Women and children with psychotic disorders in developing countries may be vulnerable and have considerable social disadvantages. Gender disadvantage has implications for all health outcomes including mental illnesses. In the more relevant gender-related context we discuss several important issues which affect women with schizophrenia, namely stigma, caregiver burden, functional outcome, marriage, victimization and help-seeking. The findings indicate that there are variations in clinical and functional outcomes and age of onset of illness between different regions. Drug side effects, such as metabolic syndrome appear to be quite common, adding to disease burden in women from developing countries. Victimization and coercion may contribute to poor quality of life and health concerns such as STIs and HIV. Stigma among women with schizophrenia appears to play a major role in help-seeking, caregiver burden and issues such as marriage and parenting. Gender-sensitive care and practices are few and not well documented. Research in the area of psychoses in children and adolescents from LAMI countries is sparse and is mainly restricted to a few clinic-based studies. More research is needed on organic and medical factors contributing to childhood psychoses, pathways to care, help-seeking, and impact of early detection and community care.

Neuroimaging studies in schizophrenia help clarify the neural substrates underlying the pathogenesis of this neuropsychiatric disorder. Contemporary brain imaging in schizophrenia is predominated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-based research approaches. This review focuses on the various imaging studies from India and their relevance to the understanding of brain abnormalities in schizophrenia. The existing studies are predominantly comprised of structural MRI reports involving region-of-interest and voxel-based morphometry approaches, magnetic resonance spectroscopy and single-photon emission computed tomography/positron emission tomography (SPECT/PET) studies. Most of these studies are significant in that they have evaluated antipsychotic-nave schizophrenia patients--a relatively difficult population to obtain in contemporary research. Findings of these studies offer robust support to the existence of significant brain abnormalities at very early stages of the disorder. In addition, theoretically relevant relationships between these brain abnormalities and developmental aberrations suggest possible neurodevelopmental basis for these brain deficits.
Despite being the most significant consumers of health care resources and medications worldwide, recent international research has highlighted the under-representation of older participants from clinical trials. This creates problems for physicians as the patients seen in clinical practice are not representative of those on which medical treatments and interventions have been trialled, and we need to consider whether results (both negative and positive) from these trials are applicable to these patients. Our aim was to gauge whether exclusion of older people was prevalent in research proposals submitted to Dublin teaching hospitals. We audited all clinical research proposals submitted to the Research Ethics committee (REC) covering the teaching hospitals attached to Trinity College Dublin (TCD) from July 2008 to July 2011 inclusive, recording exclusion of patients based on an arbitrary upper age limit. Of the 226 relevant trials studied, 31(13.7%) excluded participants based solely on an arbitrary upper age limit. 22 (9.8%) of the relevant trials were submitted by geriatricians, none of which excluded patients based solely on age. Over 50% (12 of 22) trials submitted by neurology/psychiatry excluded patients based on an upper age limit. The mean upper age limit used over all trials as a cut-off was 69.2 years of age. As well as this, the majority of the remaining trials also contained other exclusion criteria, especially those based on cognitive function which further limited participation of older people. While we found that a significant proportion of clinical trials submitted to the TCD REC still excluded patients based arbitrarily on an upper age limit, participation rates of older people seem to be higher in this Irish centre than that seen in international trials. Significant room for improvement still remains however and there needs to be a promotion of greater awareness of the need for developing, testing and licensing medicines so that it mirrors the consumer groups in which they will be used. Increased input from geriatricians around the testing and licensing of medicines, and in licensing agencies, would greatly help in this regard. It is both unhelpful for optimal healthcare as well as fundamentally unjust to exclude participants from clinical research based solely on an arbitrary age limit.
Cannabis is one of the most widely abused substances throughout the world. The primary psychoactive constituent of cannabis, delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol ((9_)THC), produces a myriad of pharmacological effects in animals and humans. Although it is used as a recreational drug, it can potentially lead to dependence and behavioral disturbances and its heavy use may increase the risk for psychotic disorders.Many studies that endeavor to understand the mechanism of action of cannabis concentrate on pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cannabinoids in humans. However, there is limited research on the chronic adverse effects and retention of cannabinoids in human subjects.Cannabis can be detected in body fluids following exposure through active/passive inhalation and exposure through breastfeeding. Cannabis detection is directly dependent on accurate analytical procedures for detection of metabolites and verification of recent use.In this review, an attempt has been made to summarize the properties of cannabis and its derivatives, and to discuss the implications of its use with emphasis on bioavailability, limit of detection, carry over period and passive inhalation, important factors for detection and diagnosis.
Dopamine receptor agonists and L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) counteract dopamine loss in the striatum and are therefore used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). T-Lymphocytes express some features of the dopaminergic system, and their function or activation might be regulated by dopaminergic treatments. Two-dimensional electrophoresis of total protein extract from T-lymphocytes was performed to identify therapy-induced proteome changes in T-cells of 17 patients with PD. Specific protein level alterations were further validated by Western blotting. Of 17 enrolled patients, 11 were treated with different doses of L-DOPA; in this group, we found that the levels of two spots, corresponding to ATP synthase subunit  and proteasome subunit  type-2, correlated linearly with the L-DOPA daily dose. Moreover, we identified seven proteins (prolidase, actin-related protein 2, F-actin-capping protein subunit , tropomyosin -3 chain, proteasome activator complex subunit 1, peroxiredoxin 6, and a glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase isoform) whose levels were significantly different in patients treated with dopamine agonists. These findings demonstrate that dopaminergic stimulation has important effects on T-cell proteome in patients under long-term treatment. Therefore, therapies acting on the dopaminergic system may have additional effects on the immune system.
Recent studies have shown that transient parts of a speech signal contribute most to speech intelligibility in normal-hearing listeners. In this study, the influence of enhancing the onsets of the envelope of the speech signal on speech intelligibility in noisy conditions using an eight channel cochlear implant vocoder simulation was investigated. The enhanced envelope (EE) strategy emphasizes the onsets of the speech envelope by deriving an additional peak signal at the onsets in each frequency band. A sentence recognition task in stationary speech shaped noise showed a significant speech reception threshold (SRT) improvement of 2.5 dB for the EE in comparison to the reference continuous interleaved sampling strategy and of 1.7 dB when an ideal Wiener filter was used for the onset extraction on the noisy signal. In a competitive talker condition, a significant SRT improvement of 2.6 dB was measured. A benefit was obtained in all experiments with the peak signal derived from the clean speech. Although the EE strategy is not effective in many real-life situations, the results suggest that there is potential for speech intelligibility improvement when an enhancement of the onsets of the speech envelope is included in the signal processing of auditory prostheses.
A number of treatment guidelines for bipolar disorder have been published and updated in the last few years. They are aimed at providing a synthesis of the best available scientific knowledge, and their application to every-day work should be helpful to clinicians. The aim of this report is to critically review recent guidelines focusing on the treatment of manic/hypomanic and mixed episodes. Guidelines are quite heterogeneous in methodology and conclusions, but they all agree that the treatment of manic/hypomanic and mixed episodes should generally be initiated with a medication such as lithium (Li), valproate (VPA) or atypical antipsychotics (AAP), including aripiprazole, olanzapine, quetiapine, risperidone, and ziprasidone as monotherapy. All guidelines agree on stopping ongoing antidepressant medication during mania. Combination therapy including Li or VPA with an AAP is suggested usually as second-line choice, sometimes as first-choice treatment for severe mania. Carbamazepine is mostly suggested as second line and not recommended in combination. Other antiepileptic drugs are not recommended for the treatment of mania, although lamotrigine may be maintained if it was prescribed previously for the prevention of depressive episodes. Main sources of discrepancies among guidelines include benefit-risk ratio issues (how much priority is given to efficacy over safety and tolerability), starting with combination versus monotherapy, and how to deal with treatments which are more experience-based than evidence-based (i.e.: electroconvulsive therapy).
Barbiturate use in conjunction with alcohol can result in severe respiratory depression and overdose deaths. The mechanisms underlying the additive/synergistic actions were unresolved. Current management of ethanol-barbiturate-induced apnea is limited to ventilatory and circulatory support coupled with drug elimination. Based on recent preclinical and clinical studies of opiate-induced respiratory depression, we hypothesized that ampakine compounds may provide a treatment for other types of drug-induced respiratory depression. The actions of alcohol, pentobarbital, bicuculline, and the ampakine CX717, alone and in combination, were measured via 1) ventral root recordings from newborn rat brain stem-spinal cord preparations and 2) plethysmographic recordings from unrestrained newborn and adult rats. We found that ethanol caused a modest suppression of respiratory drive in vitro (50 mM) and in vivo (2 g/kg ip). Pentobarbital induced an 50% reduction in respiratory frequency in vitro (50 M) and in vivo (28 mg/kg for pups and 56 mg/kg for adult rats ip). However, severe life-threatening apnea was induced by the combination of the agents in vitro and in vivo via activation of GABA(A) receptors, which was exacerbated by hypoxic (8% O(2)) conditions. Administration of the ampakine CX717 alleviated a significant component of the respiratory depression in vitro (50-150 M) and in vivo (30 mg/kg ip). Bicuculline also alleviated ethanol-/pentobarbital-induced respiratory depression but caused seizure activity, whereas CX717 did not. These data demonstrated that ethanol and pentobarbital together caused severe respiratory depression, including lethal apnea, via synergistic actions that blunt chemoreceptive responses to hypoxia and hypercapnia and suppress central respiratory rhythmogenesis. The ampakine CX717 markedly reduced the severity of respiratory depression.
Many non-mammalian vertebrates produce hair cells throughout life and recover from hearing and balance deficits through regeneration. In contrast, embryonic production of hair cells declines sharply in mammals where deficits from hair cell losses are typically permanent. Hair cell density estimates recently suggested that the vestibular organs of mice continue to add hair cells after birth, so we undertook comprehensive counting in murine utricles at different ages. The counts show that 51% of the hair cells in adults arise during the 2 weeks after birth. Immature hair cells are most common near the neonatal macula's peripheral edge and striola, where anti-Ki-67 labels cycling nuclei in zones that appear to contain niches for supporting-cell-like stem cells. In vivo lineage tracing in a novel reporter mouse where tamoxifen-inducible supporting cell-specific Cre expression switched tdTomato fluorescence to eGFP fluorescence showed that proteolipid-protein-1-expressing supporting cells are an important source of the new hair cells. To assess the contributions of postnatal cell divisions, we gave mice an injection of BrdU or EdU on the day of birth. The labels were restricted to supporting cells 1 day later, but by 12 days, 31% of the labeled nuclei were in myosin-VIIA-positive hair cells. Thus, hair cell populations in neonatal mouse utricles grow appreciably through two processes: the progressive differentiation of cells generated before birth and the differentiation of new cells arising from divisions of progenitors that progress through S phase soon after birth. Subsequent declines in these processes coincide with maturational changes that appear unique to mammalian supporting cells.
Otitis media with effusion (OME) is a pathologic condition of the middle ear that leads to a mild to moderate conductive hearing loss as a result of fluid in the middle ear. Recurring OME in children during the first few years of life has been shown to be associated with poor detection and recognition of sounds in noisy environments, hypothesized to result due to altered sound localization cues. To explore this hypothesis, we simulated a middle ear effusion by filling the middle ear space of chinchillas with different viscosities and volumes of silicone oil to simulate varying degrees of OME. While the effects of middle ear effusions on the interaural level difference (ILD) cue to location are known, little is known about whether and how middle ear effusions affect interaural time differences (ITDs). Cochlear microphonic amplitudes and phases were measured in response to sounds delivered from several locations in azimuth before and after filling the middle ear with fluid. Significant attenuations (20-40dB) of sound were observed when the middle ear was filled with at least 1.0ml of fluid with a viscosity of 3.5 Poise (P) or greater. As expected, ILDs were altered by ~30dB. Additionally, ITDs were shifted by ~600s for low frequency stimuli (&lt;4kHz) due to a delay in the transmission of sound to the inner ear. The data show that in an experimental model of OME, ILDs and ITDs are shifted in the spatial direction of the ear without the experimental effusion.
The aim of this study was to compare human dental pulp stress and programmed cell death after 3 and 6 months of orthodontic treatments by assessing the degree of apoptosis and related proteins. Human dental pulps were collected from twenty young patients orthodontically treated by Straight Wire technique. Samples were fixed, paraffin-embedded and processed for histology and immunohistochemistry using anti-heat shock protein 60 kDa (Hsp60), -caspase 3, -caspase 9, and -PCNA antibodies, as well as TUNEL reactions. Moreover, we performed immunoprecipitation for Hsp60 and caspase 3, and for Hsp60 and caspase 9, from paraffin extracted tissues. Increased levels of both caspases and Hsp60 occurred in 6-months treated samples; at the same time, we found increased levels of proliferating cell nuclear antigen and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling positive cells. Immunoprecipitation showed that Hsp60 forms a complex with both Pro-caspase 3 and Caspase 3, and this may accelerate Pro-caspase 3 activation, especially in the 6-months treated group. On the contrary, no complex between Hsp60 and Pro-caspase 9 was detected. The orthodontic tractions may be a cause of stress, apoptosis and proliferation in pulp tissue. These results suggest the need of further studies about the effects of long term orthodontic treatments on the dental pulp.

Brain repair involves a compendium of natural mechanisms that are activated following stroke. From a therapeutic viewpoint, reparative therapies that encourage cerebral plasticity are needed. In the last years, it has been demonstrated that modulatory treatments for brain repair such as trophic factor- and stem cell-based therapies can promote neurogenesis, gliogenesis, oligodendrogenesis, synaptogenesis and angiogenesis, all of which having a beneficial impact on infarct volume, cell death and, finally, and most importantly, on the functional recovery. However, even when promising results have been obtained in a wide range of experimental animal models and conditions these preliminary results have not yet demonstrated their clinical efficacy. Here, we focus on brain repair modulatory treatments for ischaemic stroke, that use trophic factors, drugs with trophic effects and stem cell therapy. Important and still unanswered questions for translational research ranging from experimental animal models to recent and ongoing clinical trials are reviewed here.
Growth/differentiation factor 5 (GDF5) is a neurotrophic factor that promotes the survival of midbrain dopaminergic neurons in vitro and in vivo and as such is potentially useful in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). This study shows that a continuous supply of GDF5, produced by transplanted GDF5-overexpressing CHO cells in vivo, has neuroprotective and neurorestorative effects on midbrain dopaminergic neurons following 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced lesions of the adult rat nigrostriatal pathway. It also increases the survival and improves the function of transplanted embryonic dopaminergic neurons in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat model of PD. This study provides the first proof-of-principle that sustained delivery of GDF5 in vivo may be useful in the treatment of PD.
Rates of cerebral blood flow (CBF) and glucose consumption (CMR(glc)) rise in cerebral cortex during continuous stimulation, while the oxygen-glucose index (OGI) declines as an index of mismatched coupling of oxygen consumption (cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen-CMRO(2)) to CBF and CMR(glc). To test whether the mismatch reflects a specific role of aerobic glycolysis during functional brain activation, we determined CBF and CMRO(2) with positron emission tomography (PET) when 12 healthy volunteers executed finger-to-thumb apposition of the right hand. Movements began 1, 10, or 20minutes before administration of the radiotracers. In primary and supplementary motor cortices and cerebellum, CBF had increased at 1minute of exercise and remained elevated for the duration of the 20-minute session. In contrast, the CMRO(2) numerically had increased insignificantly in left M1 and supplementary motor area at 1minute, but had declined significantly at 10minutes, returning to baseline at 20minutes. As measures of CMR(glc) are impossible during short-term activations, we used measurements of CBF as indices of CMR(glc). The decline of CMRO(2) at 10minutes paralleled a calculated decrease of OGI at this time. The implied generation of lactate in the tissue suggested an important hypothetical role of the metabolite as regulator of CBF during activation.
We report the distribution of immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers containing calcitonin gene-related peptide in the alpaca diencephalon. This study was carried out in alpacas that lived from birth to death at 0 m above sea level. Immunoreactive fibers were widely distributed throughout the thalamus and hypothalamus. A moderate density of these fibers was found in the zona incerta, the central medial, subparafascicular, reuniens and rhomboid thalamic nuclei, in the preoptic, anterior, lateral and dorsal hypothalamic areas, around the fornix, in the posterior, ventromedial and paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei and in the lateral mammillary nucleus. Cell bodies were only found in the hypothalamus: a high density in the paraventricular and supraoptic hypothalamic nuclei and a low density in the anterior, lateral and dorsal hypothalamic areas, around the fornix, and in the posterior and ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei. The widespread distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide in the alpaca diencephalon suggests that it is involved in many physiological actions that must be investigated in-depth in the future, since alpacas lives from 0 m above sea level to altitudes of up to 5000 m altitude and hence the involvement of neuropeptides in special and unique regulatory physiological mechanisms could be suggested.
To what extent the intrinsic glutamatergic system of the cerebellum is able to keep normal features in the absence of mossy and climbing fibres, is at present not known. To answer this question, immunocytochemistry for light and high resolution electron microscopy was used to reveal the cellular and subcellular distribution of glutamate receptors in isolated cerebellar cultures. The localization of the ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits GluA2/3 and the metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) 1a and mGlu2/3 receptor subtypes was carried out in 0 to 9-day-old rat parasagittal slices developed in vitro for 20-40 days. The typical localization of GluA2/3, mGlu1a and mGlu2/3 observed in Purkinje cells, granule cells, Golgi cells and unipolar brush cells was maintained in the organotypic cultures. Furthermore, the subcellular distribution of mGlu1a showed the characteristic in vivo perisynaptic position in Purkinje cell dendritic spines receiving parallel fibre synapses. We conclude that the cellular and subcellular localization of the studied ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors is not affected by the removal of the two extrinsic cerebellar glutamatergic inputs, the mossy and climbing fibres.

Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal, inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by an expanded CAG repeat in the gene encoding huntingtin (HTT). Therapeutic approaches to lower mutant HTT (mHTT) levels are expected to proceed to human trials, but noninvasive quantification of mHTT is not currently possible. The importance of the peripheral immune system in neurodegenerative disease is becoming increasingly recognized. Peripheral immune cells have been implicated in HD pathogenesis, but HTT levels in these cells have not been quantified before. A recently described time-resolved Frster resonance energy transfer (TR-FRET) immunoassay was used to quantify mutant and total HTT protein levels in leukocytes from patients with HD. Mean mHTT levels in monocytes, T cells, and B cells differed significantly between patients with HD and controls and between pre-manifest mutation carriers and those with clinical onset. Monocyte and T cell mHTT levels were significantly associated with disease burden scores and caudate atrophy rates in patients with HD. mHTT N-terminal fragments detected in HD PBMCs may explain the progressive increase in mHTT levels in these cells. These findings indicate that quantification of mHTT in peripheral immune cells by TR-FRET holds significant promise as a noninvasive disease biomarker.
The formation of a long-lasting memory requires a transcription-dependent consolidation period that converts a short-term memory into a long-term memory. Nuclear receptors compose a class of transcription factors that regulate diverse biological processes, and several nuclear receptors have been implicated in memory formation. Here, we examined the potential contribution of nuclear receptors to memory consolidation by measuring the expression of all 49 murine nuclear receptors after learning. We identified 13 nuclear receptors with increased expression after learning, including all 3 members of the Nr4a subfamily. These CREB-regulated Nr4a genes encode ligand-independent &quot;orphan&quot; nuclear receptors. We found that blocking NR4A activity in memory-supporting brain regions impaired long-term memory but did not impact short-term memory in mice. Further, expression of Nr4a genes increased following the memory-enhancing effects of histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors. Blocking NR4A signaling interfered with the ability of HDAC inhibitors to enhance memory. These results demonstrate that the Nr4a gene family contributes to memory formation and is a promising target for improving cognitive function.

Radiosurgery (RS) and hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy (HSRT) were performed in 23 and 22 patients respectively for the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia. RS and HSRT were performed with a dedicated linear accelerator (LINAC): an invasive frame (for RS) or a relocatable stereotactic frame fitted with a thermoplastic mask and bite blocks (HSRT) were used for positioning patients. The RS treatment delivered 40 Gy in a single fraction, or for HSRT, the equivalent radiobiological fractionated dose - a total of 72 Gy in six fractions. The target (the retrogasserian cisternal portion of the trigeminal nerve) was identified by fusion of CT scans with 1-mm-thick T2-weighted MRI, and the radiant dose was delivered by a 10-mm-diameter cylindrical collimator. The results were evaluated using the Barrow Neurological Institute pain scale during follow-up (mean 3.9 years). The 95% isodose was applied to the entire target volume. After RS (23 patients), Class 1 results were observed in 10 patients; Class II in nine, Class IIIa in two, Class IIIb in one, and Class V results in one patient. Facial numbness occurred in two (8.7%) patients, and the trigeminal neuralgia recurred in two patients (8.7%). Following HSRT (22 patients), Class I results were achieved in eight patients, Class II in eight, Class IIIa in four, and Class IIIb in two patients; recurrence occurred in six (27.5%), and there were no complications. Thus, both RS and HSRT provided effective and safe therapy for the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia. Patients who underwent RS experienced better pain relief and a lower recurrence rate, whereas those who underwent HRST had no side effects, and in particular, no facial numbness.

This study examined whether the opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone is efficacious in smoking cessation and whether sex moderates the response. We assessed smoking quit rates and weight gain in a double-blind randomized trial comparing oral naltrexone (n = 162) with placebo (n = 154) in nicotine-dependent participants who wanted to quit smoking. The medication was gradually titrated up to 50 mg during the week before the quit date and then maintained at this dose for 12 weeks. For the first 4 weeks after the quit date, all participants received a nicotine patch to mitigate tobacco withdrawal and attended weekly individual cognitive-behavioral smoking cessation counseling sessions. After this time, participants continued with naltrexone or placebo through 12 weeks. Follow-up assessments were conducted at 26 and 52 weeks. During treatment, naltrexone (vs placebo) increased quit rates, attenuated smoking urge, and reduced weight gain. At follow-up, after medication discontinuation, the effect of naltrexone on improving quit rates was no longer evident. Men and women experienced different benefits from naltrexone; men showed greater reductions in smoking, whereas women showed greater reductions in weight gain. In sum, naltrexone showed acute efficacy in treating nicotine dependence, but after the medication was discontinued, the effect on quit rate was not maintained. Further study of naltrexone in smoking cessation treatment and reduction of cessation-related weight gain, as well as preclinical investigation of mechanisms underlying sex differences, is warranted.
Our everyday actions are often performed in the context of a social interaction. We previously showed that, in adults, selecting an action on the basis of either social or symbolic cues was associated with activations in the fronto-parietal cognitive control network, whereas the presence and use of social versus symbolic cues was in addition associated with activations in the temporal and medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) social brain network. Here we investigated developmental changes in these two networks. Fourteen adults (21-30 years of age) and 14 adolescents (11-16 years) followed instructions to move objects in a set of shelves. Interpretation of the instructions was conditional on the point of view of a visible &quot;director&quot; or the meaning of a symbolic cue (Director Present vs. Director Absent) and the number of potential referent objects in the shelves (3-object vs. 1-object). 3-object trials elicited increased fronto-parietal and temporal activations, with greater left lateral prefrontal cortex and parietal activations in adults than adolescents. Social versus symbolic information led to activations in superior dorsal MPFC, precuneus, and along the superior/middle temporal sulci. Both dorsal MPFC and left temporal clusters exhibited a Director  Object interaction, with greater activation when participants needed to consider the directors' viewpoints. This effect differed with age in dorsal MPFC. Adolescents showed greater activation whenever social information was present, whereas adults showed greater activation only when the directors' viewpoints were relevant to task performance. This study thus shows developmental differences in domain-general and domain-specific PFC activations associated with action selection in a social interaction context.
Embodied theories hold that cognitive concepts are grounded in our sensorimotor systems. Specifically, a number of behavioral and neuroimaging studies have buttressed the idea that language concepts are represented in areas involved in perception and action [Pulvermueller, F. Brain mechanisms linking language and action. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 6, 576-582, 2005; Barsalou, L. W. Perceptual symbol systems. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 22, 577-660, 1999]. Proponents of a strong embodied account argue that activity in perception/action areas is triggered automatically upon encountering a word and reflect static semantic representations. In contrast to what would be expected if lexical semantic representations are automatically triggered upon encountering a word, a number of studies failed to find motor-related activity for words with a putative action-semantic component [Raposo, A., Moss, H. E., Stamatakis, E. A., &amp; Tyler, L. K. Modulation of motor and premotor cortices by actions, action words and action sentences. Neuropsychologia, 47, 388-396, 2009; Rueschemeyer, S.-A., Brass, M., &amp; Friederici, A. D. Comprehending prehending: Neural correlates of processing verbs with motor stems. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 19, 855-865, 2007]. In a recent fMRI study, Van Dam and colleagues [Van Dam, W. O., Van Dijk, M., Bekkering, H., &amp; Rueschemeyer, S.-A. Flexibility in embodied lexical-semantic representations. Human Brain Mapping, in press] showed that the degree to which a modality-specific region contributes to a representation considerably changes as a function of context. In the current study, we presented words for which both motor and visual properties (e.g., tennis ball, boxing glove) were important in constituting the concept. Our aim was to corroborate on earlier findings of flexible and context-dependent language representations by testing whether functional integration between auditory brain regions and perception/action areas is modulated by context. Functional connectivity was investigated by means of a psychophysiological interaction analysis, in which we found that bilateral superior temporal gyrus was more strongly connected with brain regions relevant for coding action information: (1) for Action Color words vs. Abstract words, and (2) for Action Color words presented in a context that emphasized action vs. a context that emphasized color properties.
In recent years, multiple independent neuroscience investigations have implicated critical roles for the rostral temporal lobe in auditory and visual perception, language, and semantic memory. Although arising in the context of different cognitive functions, most of these suggest that there is a gradual convergence of sensory information in the temporal lobe that culminates in modality- and perceptually invariant representations at the most rostral aspect. Currently, however, too little is known regarding connectivity within the human temporal lobe to be sure of exactly how and where convergence occurs; existing hypotheses are primarily derived on the basis of cross-species generalizations from invasive nonhuman primate studies, the validity of which is unclear, especially where language function is concerned. In this study, we map the connectivity of the human rostral temporal lobe in vivo for the first time using diffusion-weighted imaging probabilistic tractography. The results indicate that convergence of sensory information in the temporal lobe is in fact a graded process that occurs along both its longitudinal and lateral axes and culminates in the most rostral limits. We highlight the consistency of our results with those of prior functional neuroimaging, computational modeling, and patient studies. By going beyond simple fasciculus reconstruction, we systematically explored the connectivity of specific temporal lobe areas to frontal and parietal language regions. In contrast to the graded within-temporal lobe connectivity, this intertemporal connectivity was found to dissociate across caudal, mid, and rostral subregions. Furthermore, we identified a basal rostral temporal region with very limited connectivity to areas outside the temporal lobe, which aligns with recent evidence that this subregion underpins the extraction of modality- and context-invariant semantic representations.
From which regions of the brain do conscious representations of visual stimuli emerge? This is an important but controversial issue in neuroscience because some studies have reported a major role of the higher visual regions of the ventral pathway in conscious perception, whereas others have found neural correlates of consciousness as early as in the primary visual areas and in the thalamus. One reason for this controversy has been the difficulty in focusing on neural activity at the moment when conscious percepts are generated in the brain, excluding any bottom-up responses (not directly related to consciousness) that are induced by stimuli. In this study, we address this issue with a new approach that can induce a rapid change in conscious perception with little influence from bottom-up responses. Our results reveal that the first consciousness-related activity emerges from the higher visual region of the ventral pathway. However, this activity is rapidly diffused to the entire brain, including the early visual cortex. These results thus integrate previous &quot;higher&quot; and &quot;lower&quot; views on the emergence of neural correlates of consciousness, providing a new perspective for the temporal dynamics of consciousness.
The central complex in the brains of insects is a series of midline neuropils involved in motor control, sensory integration, and associative learning. To understand better the role of this center and its supply of sensory information, intracellular recordings and dye fills were made of central complex neurons in the fly, Neobellieria bullata. Recordings were obtained from 24 neurons associated with the ellipsoid body, fan-shaped body, and protocerebral bridge, all of which receive both visual and mechanosensory information from protocerebral centers. One neuron with dendrites in an area of the lateral protocerebrum associated with motion-sensitive outputs from the optic lobes invades the entire protocerebral bridge and was driven by visual motion. Inputs to the fan-shaped body and ellipsoid body responded both to visual stimuli and to air puffs directed at the head and abdomen. Intrinsic neurons in both of these structures respond to changes in illumination. A putative output neuron connecting the protocerebral bridge, the fan-shaped body, and one of the lateral accessory lobes showed opponent responses to moving visual stimuli. These recordings identify neurons with response properties previously known only from extracellular recordings in other species. Dye injections into neurons connecting the central complex with areas of the protocerebrum suggest that some classes of inputs into the central complex are electrically coupled.
The central complex of the insect brain is a system of midline neuropils involved in transforming sensory information into behavioral outputs. Genetic studies focusing on nerve cells supplying the central complex from the protocerebrum propose that such neurons play key roles in circuits involved in learning the distinction of visual cues during operant conditioning. To better identify the possible sites of such circuits we used Bodian and anti-synapsin staining to resolve divisions of the superior protocerebrum into discrete neuropils. Here we show that in the fly Neobellieria bullata, the superior protocerebrum is composed of at least five clearly defined regions that correspond to those identified in Drosophila melanogaster. Intracellular dye fills and Golgi impregnations resolve &quot;tangential neurons&quot; that have intricate systems of branches in two of these regions. The branches are elaborate, decorated with specializations indicative of pre- and postsynaptic sites. The tangentially arranged terminals of these neurons extend across characteristic levels of the central complex's fan-shaped body. In this and another blowfly species, we identify an asymmetric pair of neuropils situated deep in the fan-shaped body, called the asymmetric bodies because of their likely homology with similar elements in Drosophila. One of the pair of bodies receives collaterals from symmetric arrangements of tangential neuron terminals. Cobalt injections reveal that the superior protocerebrum is richly supplied with local interneurons that are likely participants in microcircuitry associated with the distal processes of tangential neurons. Understanding the morphologies and arrangements of these and other neurons is essential for correctly interpreting functional attributes of the central complex.
How does the brain develop differently to support nocturnality in some mammals, but diurnality in others? To answer this question, one might look to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), which is entrained by light via the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT). However, because the SCN is more active during the day in all mammals studied thus far, it alone cannot determine circadian phase preference. In adult Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus), which are nocturnal, the RHT also projects to the ventral subparaventricular zone (vSPVZ), an adjacent region that expresses an in-phase pattern of SCN-vSPVZ neuronal activity. In contrast, in adult Nile grass rats (Arvicanthis niloticus), which are diurnal, an anti-phase pattern of SCN-vSPVZ neuronal activity is expressed. We hypothesized that these species differences result in part from a weak or absent RHT-to-vSPVZ projection in grass rats. Here, using a developmental comparative approach, we assessed species differences in behavior, hypothalamic activity, and RHT anatomy. We report that a robust retina-to-vSPVZ projection develops in Norway rats around the end of the second postnatal week when nocturnal wakefulness and the in-phase pattern of neuronal activity emerge. In grass rats, however, such a projection does not develop and the emergence of the anti-phase pattern during the second postnatal week is accompanied by increased diurnal wakefulness. When considered within the context of previously published reports on RHT projections in a variety of species, the current findings suggest that how and when the retina connects to the hypothalamus differentially shapes brain and behavior to produce animals that occupy opposing temporal niches.
Previous studies have shown that retinal input plays an important role in the development of interhemispheric callosal connections, but little is known about the role retinal input plays on the development of ipsilateral striate-extrastriate connections and the interplay that might exist between developing ipsilateral and callosal pathways. We analyzed the effects of bilateral enucleation performed at different ages on both the distribution of extrastriate projections originating from restricted loci in medial, acallosal striate cortex, and the overall pattern of callosal connections revealed following multiple tracer injections. As in normal rats, striate-extrastriate projections in rats enucleated at birth consisted of multiple, well-defined fields that were largely confined to acallosal regions throughout extrastriate cortex. However, these projections were highly irregular and variable, and they tended to occupy correspondingly anomalous and variable acallosal regions. Moreover, area 17, but not area 18a, was smaller in enucleates compared to controls, resulting in an increase in the divergence of striate projections. Anomalies in patterns of striate-extrastriate projections were not observed in rats enucleated at postnatal day (P)6, although the size of area 17 was still reduced in these rats. These results indicate that the critical period during which the eyes influence the development of striate-extrastriate, but not the size of striate cortex, ends by P6. Finally, enucleation did not change the time course and definition of the initial invasion of axons into gray matter, suggesting that highly variable striate projections patterns do not result from anomalous pruning of exuberant distributions of 17-18a fibers in gray matter.
During development, neurons form supernumerary synapses, most of which are selectively pruned leading to stereotyped patterns of innervation. During the development of skeletal muscle innervation, or its regeneration after nerve injury, each muscle fiber is transiently innervated by multiple motor axon branches but eventually by a single branch. The selective elimination of all but one branch is the result of competition between the converging arbors. It is thought that motor neurons initially innervate muscle fibers randomly, but that axon branches from the same neuron (sibling branches) do not converge to innervate the same muscle fiber. However, random innervation would result in many neonatal endplates that are co-innervated by sibling branches. To investigate whether this occurs we examined neonatal levator auris longus (LAL) and 4th deep lumbrical (4DL) muscles, as well as adult reinnervated deep lumbrical muscles (1-4) in transgenic mice expressing yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) as a reporter. We provide direct evidence of convergence of sibling neurites within single fluorescent motor units, both during development and during regeneration after nerve crush. The incidence of sibling neurite convergence was 40% lower in regeneration and at least 75% lower during development than expected by chance. Therefore, there must be a mechanism that decreases the probability of its occurrence. As sibling neurite convergence is not seen in normal adults, or at later timepoints in regeneration, synapse elimination must also remove convergent synaptic inputs derived from the same motor neuron. Mechanistic theories of synaptic competition should now accommodate this form of isoaxonal plasticity.
In recent years, the problem of reconstructing the connectivity in large neural circuits (&quot;connectomics&quot;) has re-emerged as one of the main objectives of neuroscience. Classically, reconstructions of neural connectivity have been approached anatomically, using electron or light microscopy and histological tracing methods. This paper describes a statistical approach for connectivity reconstruction that relies on relatively easy-to-obtain measurements using fluorescent probes such as synaptic markers, cytoplasmic dyes, transsynaptic tracers, or activity-dependent dyes. We describe the possible design of these experiments and develop a Bayesian framework for extracting synaptic neural connectivity from such data. We show that the statistical reconstruction problem can be formulated naturally as a tractable L-regularized quadratic optimization. As a concrete example, we consider a realistic hypothetical connectivity reconstruction experiment in C. elegans, a popular neuroscience model where a complete wiring diagram has been previously obtained based on long-term electron microscopy work. We show that the new statistical approach could lead to an orders of magnitude reduction in experimental effort in reconstructing the connectivity in this circuit. We further demonstrate that the spatial heterogeneity and biological variability in the connectivity matrix--not just the &quot;average&quot; connectivity--can also be estimated using the same method.
Hippocampal population codes play an important role in representation of spatial environment and spatial navigation. Uncovering the internal representation of hippocampal population codes will help understand neural mechanisms of the hippocampus. For instance, uncovering the patterns represented by rat hippocampus (CA1) pyramidal cells during periods of either navigation or sleep has been an active research topic over the past decades. However, previous approaches to analyze or decode firing patterns of population neurons all assume the knowledge of the place fields, which are estimated from training data a priori. The question still remains unclear how can we extract information from population neuronal responses either without a priori knowledge or in the presence of finite sampling constraint. Finding the answer to this question would leverage our ability to examine the population neuronal codes under different experimental conditions. Using rat hippocampus as a model system, we attempt to uncover the hidden &quot;spatial topology&quot; represented by the hippocampal population codes. We develop a hidden Markov model (HMM) and a variational Bayesian (VB) inference algorithm to achieve this computational goal, and we apply the analysis to extensive simulation and experimental data. Our empirical results show promising direction for discovering structural patterns of ensemble spike activity during periods of active navigation. This study would also provide useful insights for future exploratory data analysis of population neuronal codes during periods of sleep.

Considerable efforts have been made to investigate how homing pigeons (Columba livia f. domestica) are able to return to their loft from distant, unfamiliar sites while the mechanisms underlying navigation in familiar territory have received less attention. With the recent advent of global positioning system (GPS) data loggers small enough to be carried by pigeons, the role of visual environmental features in guiding navigation over familiar areas is beginning to be understood, yet, surprisingly, we still know very little about whether homing pigeons can rely on discrete, visual landmarks to guide navigation. To assess a possible role of discrete, visual landmarks in navigation, homing pigeons were first trained to home from a site with four wind turbines as salient landmarks as well as from a control site without any distinctive, discrete landmark features. The GPS-recorded flight paths of the pigeons on the last training release were straighter and more similar among birds from the turbine site compared with those from the control site. The pigeons were then released from both sites following a clock-shift manipulation. Vanishing bearings from the turbine site continued to be homeward oriented as 13 of 14 pigeons returned home. By contrast, at the control site the vanishing bearings were deflected in the expected clock-shift direction and only 5 of 13 pigeons returned home. Taken together, our results offer the first strong evidence that discrete, visual landmarks are one source of spatial information homing pigeons can utilize to navigate when flying over a familiar area.
Whereas physiological studies indicate that illusory contours (ICs) are signaled in early visual areas at short latencies, behavioral studies are divided as to whether IC processing can proceed in a fast, automatic, bottom-up manner or whether it requires extensive top-down intracortical feedback or even awareness and cognition. Here, we employ a response priming paradigm to assess two measures of IC processing using identical stimuli: response priming by ICs, which can occur independently of visual awareness, and a measure of visual awareness of the ICs. In three experiments, participants responded to the orientation of illusory and real-contour targets preceded by illusory and real-contour primes at stimulus-onset asynchronies from 35 to 106 ms. Both illusory and real-contour targets were strongly primed by ICs, and this effect was independent of prime visibility. The effect was fully present in the fastest responses and cannot be explained by responses to stimulus features other than the ICs. Results indicate that ICs, regardless of whether they are consciously perceived, activate fast motor responses, indicating that they are processed without time-consuming intracortical feedback. We conclude that conflicting studies were based on qualitatively different measures of IC processing, some depending on visual awareness and others independent of it.
The contents of working memory (WM) have predominantly been viewed as necessarily conscious. However, recent findings suggest otherwise. Here we investigate whether visual WM can represent subliminal stimuli, such that the positions of an invisible moving object can be extrapolated or learned about in terms of their task-relevant predictive power. We presented a moving cue subliminally and measured subjects' performance on an orientation-discrimination task at the naturally anticipated location on the cue's trajectory and at variably predictable off-trajectory locations. Our data show that orientation discriminability at the on-trajectory location was not significantly different from that at a nearby off-trajectory location. However, orientation discriminability at locations near the final position of the cue was significantly better than that at distal locations. This finding suggests that a moving object can still attract attention when presented subliminally. In contrast, the dynamic trajectory of the object and its task-relevant predictive patterns may not be monitored and maintained in visual WM.



Primary headache disorders are a major public-health problem globally and, possibly more so, in low- and middle-income countries. No methodologically sound studies of prevalence and burden of headache in the adult Indian population have been published previously. The present study was a door-to-door cold-calling survey in urban and rural areas in and around Bangalore, Karnataka State. From 2,714 households contacted, 2,514 biologically unrelated individuals were eligible for the survey and 2,329 (92.9 %) participated (1,103 [48 %] rural; 1,226 [52 %] urban; 1,141 [49 %] male; 1,188 [51 %] female; mean age 38.0 years). The focus was on primary headache (migraine and tension-type headache [TTH]) and medication-overuse headache. A structured questionnaire administered by trained lay interviewers was the instrument both for diagnosis (algorithmically determined from responses) and burden estimation. The screening question enquired into headache in the last year. The validation study compared questionnaire-based diagnoses with those obtained soon after through personal interview by a neurologist in a random sub-sample of participants (n = 381; 16 %). It showed high values (&gt; 80 %) for sensitivity, specificity and predictive values for any headache, and for specificity and negative predictive value for migraine and TTH. Kappa values for diagnostic agreement were good for any headache (0.69 [95 % CI 0.61-0.76]), moderate (0.46 [0.35-0.56]) for migraine and fair (0.39 [0.29-0.49]) for TTH. The survey methodology, including identification of and access to participants, proved feasible. The questionnaire proved effective in the survey population. The study will give reliable estimates of the prevalence and burden of headache, and of migraine and TTH specifically, in urban and rural Karnataka.
In Italy, the nationwide newborn screening programme for congenital hypothyroidism (CH) represents an integrated approach to the disease including screening tests, diagnosis, treatment, follow up and nation-wide surveillance of the disease. The latter is performed by the Italian National Registry of Infants with Congenital Hypothyroidism (INRICH). The INRICH is a population-based Registry, this implies that results obtained in the analyses conducted on the data collected in the INRICH are highly representative, can be easily used to improve the health of CH children, and provide information critical to understanding the etiology of the disease. Over the years, the INRICH has contributed: i) to improve procedures for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of affected babies, by identifying critical points in screening program procedures; ii) to estimate the incidence of CH and the prevalence of the different forms of the disease (thyroid dysgenesis, normally located and shaped thyroid) in our country; iii) to provide a unique opportunity for research into this condition given the large amount and the high quality of information collected in this registry.

Bacteria of the genus Corynebacterium are important primary and opportunistic pathogens. Many are zoonotic agents. In this report, phenotypic (API Coryne analysis), genetic (rpoB and 16S rRNA gene sequencing), and physical methods (MS) were used to distinguish the closely related diphtheroid species Corynebacterium ulcerans and Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis, and to definitively diagnose Corynebacterium renale from cephalic implants of rhesus (Macaca mulatta) and cynomolgus (Macaca fascicularis) macaques used in cognitive neuroscience research. Throat and cephalic implant cultures yielded 85 isolates from 43 macaques. Identification by API Coryne yielded C. ulcerans (n=74), Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis (n=2), C. renale or most closely related to C. renale (n=3), and commensals and opportunists (n=6). The two isolates identified as C. pseudotuberculosis by API Coryne required genetic and MS analysis for accurate characterization as C. ulcerans. Of three isolates identified as C. renale by 16S rRNA gene sequencing, only one could be confirmed as such by API Coryne, rpoB gene sequencing and MS. This study emphasizes the importance of adjunct methods in identification of coryneforms and is the first isolation of C. renale from cephalic implants in macaques.



Munc18-1 was originally described as an essential docking factor in chromaffin cells. Recent findings showed that Munc18-1 has an additional role in the regulation of the cortical F-actin network, which is thought to function as a physical barrier preventing secretory vesicles from access to their release sites under resting conditions. In our review, we discuss whether this function is evolutionarily conserved in all Sec1/Munc18-like (SM) proteins. In addition, we introduce a new quantification method that improves the analysis of cortical filamentous actin (F-actin) in comparison with existing methods. Since the docking process is highly evolutionarily conserved in the SM protein superfamily, we use our novel quantification method to investigate whether the F-actin-regulating function is similarly conserved among SM proteins. Our preliminary data suggest that the regulation of cortical F-actin is a shared function of SM proteins, and we propose a way to gain more insight in the molecular mechanism underlying the Munc18-1-mediated cortical F-actin regulation.
Chromogranin A (CgA) is a member of the granins, a family of acidic proteins found in abundance in (neuro)endocrine cells (e.g., in chromaffin cells) and in some tumors. Like other granins, CgA has a granulogenic role in secretory granule biogenesis and is stored in these organelles. CgA is partially processed differentially in various cell types to yield biologically active peptides, such as vasostatin, pancreastatin, catestatin, and serpinins. In this review, we describe the roles of CgA and several of its derived peptides. CgA, which is elevated in the blood of cancer patients, inhibits angiogenesis and exerts protective effects on the endothelial barrier function in tumors, thus affecting response to chemotherapy. Recent studies indicate that the serpinins promote cell survival and myocardial contractility and relaxation. Other peptides such as pancreastatin were found to have significant effects on inhibition of glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and glucose up-take, induction of glycogenolysis in hepatocytes, and inhibition of lipogenesis. In contrast, catestatin has opposite effects to that of pancreastatin in glucose metabolism and lipogenesis. Catestatin appears to also play a significant role in cardiac function, blood pressure regulation, and mutations in the catestatin domain of the CgA gene are associated with hypertension in humans.

The 24-h rhythms in sleep and temperature both change in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Characteristic changes consist of a more fragmented diurnal sleep profile with frequent nocturnal awakenings and daytime sleepiness, as well as a reduction in the amplitude of the 24-h rhythm in core body temperature (CBT). Although the 24-h rhythm in CBT is to a large extent the result of a 24-h rhythm in heat loss from the skin caused by pronounced changes in skin blood flow and consequently skin temperature (Ts), changes in the diurnal skin temperature profile in AD as compared to normal aging have remained unexplored. Because recent work indicates a causal contribution of fluctuations in skin temperature to daytime sleepiness and nocturnal sleep depth, the present study aimed to investigate the skin temperature rhythm in AD and its association with daytime sleepiness and nocturnal sleep. Ambulatory recorders were used to estimate sleep and 24-h rhythms in skin temperature in 55 AD patients and 26 matched non-demented elderly controls. Subjective sleep and daytime sleepiness were obtained using questionnaires. The results indicate that AD patients had a significantly higher daytime proximal skin temperature (PST) than elderly controls. In both AD patients and elderly controls, an elevated daytime PST was associated with more daytime sleepiness. The findings suggest a deficient downregulation of daytime proximal skin blood flow that might contribute to daytime sleepiness. Because daytime sleepiness contributes to cognitive dysfunction in AD, further research into the underlying mechanisms and possible reversibility is warranted.
CLOCK gene research and the analysis of circadian rhythmicity on the behavioural, cellular and molecular level are increasingly contributing to accumulate clinically relevant knowledge in the fields of neuroscience, psychopharmacology and adult psychiatry. However, the role of circadian phenomena, including sleep alterations in mental disorders during childhood and adolescence remains largely enigmatic. Fortunately, recent publications have addressed this problem and there is now some evidence available highlighting the relevance of CLOCK genes in conditions, such as ADHD, mood disorders, schizophrenia and anxiety disorders.
Sleep and circadian rhythm disruption (SCRD) and schizophrenia are often co-morbid. Here, we propose that the co-morbidity of these disorders stems from the involvement of common brain mechanisms. We summarise recent clinical evidence that supports this hypothesis, including the observation that the treatment of SCRD leads to improvements in both the sleep quality and psychiatric symptoms of schizophrenia patients. Moreover, many SCRD-associated pathologies, such as impaired cognitive performance, are routinely observed in schizophrenia. We suggest that these associations can be explored at a mechanistic level by using animal models. Specifically, we predict that SCRD should be observed in schizophrenia-relevant mouse models. There is a rapidly accumulating body of evidence which supports this prediction, as summarised in this review. In light of these emerging data, we highlight other models which warrant investigation, and address the potential challenges associated with modelling schizophrenia and SCRD in rodents. Our view is that an understanding of the mechanistic overlap between SCRD and schizophrenia will ultimately lead to novel treatment approaches, which will not only ameliorate SCRD in schizophrenia patients, but also will improve their broader health problems and overall quality of life.


Little is known about the mechanisms that regulate the expression of adenosine receptors during CNS development. We demonstrate here that retinas from chick embryos injected in ovo with selective adenosine receptor ligands show changes in A1 receptor expression after 48 h. Exposure to A1 agonist N-cyclohexyladenosine (CHA) or antagonist 8-Cyclopentyl-1, 3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX) reduced or increased, respectively, A1 receptor protein and [H]DPCPX binding, but together, CHA+DPCPX had no effect. Interestingly, treatment with A(2A) agonist 3-[4-[2-[[6-amino-9-[(2R,3R,4S,5S)-5-(ethylcarbamoyl)-3,4-dihydroxy-oxolan-2-yl]purin-2-yl]amino] ethyl]phenyl] propanoic acid (CGS21680) increased A1 receptor protein and [H]DPCPX binding, and reduced A(2A) receptors. The A(2A) antagonists 7-(2-phenylethyl)-5-amino-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo-[4,3-e]-1,2,4-trizolo[1,5-c] pyrimidine (SCH58261) and 4-(2-[7-amino-2-[2-furyl][1,2,4]triazolo[2,3-a][1,3,5]triazo-5-yl-amino]ethyl)phenol (ZM241385) had opposite effects on A1 receptor expression. Exposure to CGS21680 + CHA did not change A1 receptor levels, whereas CHA + ZM241385 or CGS21680 + DPCPX had no synergic effect. The blockade of adenosine transporter with S-(4-nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine (NBMPR) also reduced [H]DPCPX binding, an effect blocked by DPCPX, but not enhanced by ZM241385. [H]DPCPX binding kinetics showed that treatment with CHA reduced and CGS21680 increased the Bmax, but did not affect Kd values. CHA, DPCPX, CGS21680, and ZM241385 had no effect on A1 receptor mRNA. These data demonstrated an in vivo regulation of A1 receptor expression by endogenous adenosine or long-term treatment with A1 and A(2A) receptors modulators.
Prothymosin alpha (ProT), a nuclear protein devoid of signal sequence, has been shown to possess a number of cellular functions including cell survival. Most recently, we demonstrated that ProT is localized in the nuclei of neurons, while it is found in both nuclei and cytoplasm in the astrocytes and microglia of adult brain. However, the cell type-specific non-classical release of ProT under cerebral ischemia is yet unknown. In this study, we report that ProT is non-classically released along with S100A13 from neurons in the hippocampus, striatum and somatosensory cortex at 3h after cerebral ischemia, but amlexanox (an anti-allergic compound) reversibly blocks this neuronal ProT release. We found that none of ProT is released from astrocytes and microglia under ischemic stress. Indeed, ProT intensity is increased gradually in astrocytes and microglia through 24h after the cerebral ischemia. Interestingly, Z-Val-Ala-Asp fluoromethyl ketone, a caspase 3 inhibitor, pre-treatment induces ProT release from astrocytes in the ischemic brain, but this release is reversibly blocked by amlexanox. However, Z-Val-Ala-Asp fluoromethyl ketone as well as amlexanox has no effect on ProT distribution in microglia upon cerebral ischemia. Taken together, these results suggest that only neurons have machineries to release ProT upon cerebral ischemic stress in vivo.
Age-dependent accumulation of the amyloid- peptide (A) in the brain is a pre-condition for development of Alzheimer's disease. A relative increase in the generation of longer A species such as A42 and A43 is critical for A deposition, but the underlying mechanism remains unresolved. Here, we performed a cell-free assay using microsome fractions of temporal cortex tissues from 42 cynomolgus monkeys and found that A40-generating -secretase activity (40) decreased with age, whereas A42-generating -secretase activity (42) was unaltered. In ELISAs, more than 80% of monkeys over 20-years old showed evidence of A accumulation in the temporal cortex. The ratio of 42 to 40 increased with age and correlated with the level of accumulated A. These results suggest that -secretase activity undergoes age-related, non-genetic modulation and that this modulation may cause A accumulation in aging brains. Similar modulation may predispose aged human brains to Alzheimer's disease.
Calcyon is a neural enriched, single transmembrane protein that interacts with clathrin light chain and stimulates clathrin assembly and clathrin-mediated endocytosis. A similar property is shared by the heterotetrameric adaptor protein (AP) complexes AP-1, AP-2, and AP-3 which recruit cargoes for insertion into clathrin coated transport vesicles. Here we report that AP medium () subunits interact with a YXX-type tyrosine motif located at residues 133-136 in the cytoplasmic domain of calcyon. Site specific mutagenesis of the critical tyrosine and bulky hydrophobic residues tyrosine 133 and methionine 136 preferentially abrogated binding of the ubiquitous and neuronal isoforms of 3, and also impacted 1 and 2 binding to a lesser degree. The relevance of these interactions was explored in vivo using mice harboring null alleles of calcyon. As seen in the mutagenesis studies, calcyon deletion in mice preferentially altered the subcellular distribution of AP-3 suggesting that calcyon could regulate membrane-bound pools of AP-3 and AP-3 function. To test this hypothesis, we focused on the hilar region of hippocampus, where levels of calcyon, AP-3, and AP-3 cargoes are abundant. We analyzed brain cryosections from control and calcyon null mice for zinc transporter 3 (ZnT3), and phosphatidylinositol-4-kinase type II alpha (PI4KII), two well-defined AP-3 cargoes. Confocal microscopy indicated that ZnT3 and PI4KII are significantly reduced in the hippocampal mossy fibers of calcyon knock-out brain, a phenotype previously described in AP-3 deficiencies. Altogether, our data suggest that calcyon directly interacts with 3A and 3B, and regulates the subcellular distribution of AP-3 and the targeting of AP-3 cargoes.
Low concentrations of circulating testosterone have been associated with dementia manifesting with advancing age and in neurodegenerative conditions. Huntington's disease (HD) is a dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disease with an invariably fatal outcome. Severe motor symptoms, psychosis and dementia are symptomatic hallmarks of the progression of HD that result from the dysfunction and death of neocortical and basal ganglia neurones. Treatments are directed toward manifest symptoms, although they are largely ineffectual in slowing or preventing disease progression. Emerging data have identified hypothamic pathologies in HD that result in endocrine disturbances. Clinically defined primary or secondary hypogonadism elicit low circulating testosterone concentrations and have been linked to the development of Alzheimer's disease in men. Examining similar neuroendocrine dysfunction in HD including the nature of manifest hypogonadism in male patients could allow an elucidation of the complex pathophysiology of HD and provide an impetus for hitherto untested testosterone replacement therapy.
Neural production of 17-oestradiol via aromatisation of testosterone may play a critical role in rapid, nongenomic regulation of physiological and behavioural processes. In brain nuclei implicated in the control of sexual behaviour, sexual or stressfull stimuli induce, respectively, a rapid inhibition or increase in preoptic aromatase activity (AA). In the present study, we tested quail that were either nonstressed or acutely stressed (15 min of restraint) immediately before sexual interaction (5 min) with stressed or nonstressed partners. We measured nuclei-specific AA changes, corresponding behavioural output, fertilisation rates and corticosterone (CORT) concentrations. In males, sexual interaction rapidly reversed stress-induced increases of AA in the medial preoptic nucleus (POM). This time scale (&lt; 5 min) highlights the dynamic potential of the aromatase system to integrate input from stimuli that drive AA in opposing directions. Moreover, acute stress had minimal effects on male behaviour, suggesting that the input from the sexual stimuli on POM AA may actively preserve sexual behaviour despite stress exposure. We also found distinct sex differences in contextual physiological responses: males did not show any effect of partner status, whereas females responded to both their stress exposure and the male partner's stress exposure at the level of circulating CORT and AA. In addition, fertilisation rates and female CORT correlated with the male partner's exhibition of sexually aggressive behaviour, suggesting that female perception of the male can affect their physiology as much as direct stress. Overall, male reproduction appears relatively simple: sexual stimuli, irrespective of stress, drives major neural changes including rapid reversal of stress-induced changes of AA. By contrast, female reproduction appears more nuanced and context specific, with subjects responding physiologically and behaviourally to stress, the male partner's stress exposure, and female-directed male behaviour.

German internist and neurologist Adolf von Strmpell (1853-1925) was a leading figure in German neurosciences around 1900 and helped to establish neurology as a discipline in its own right. He made contributions that were crucial to the development of the subject and in many cases his were the first descriptions of complex diseases such as Bechterew disease (ankylosing spondylitis), primary lateral sclerosis, hereditary spastic paraplegia, and syphilis. His Textbook of Special Pathology and Therapy of Internal Diseases, published in English as Text-book of Medicine for Students and Practitioners, and in particular the subvolume on neurological diseases, were the guiding manuals for the training in neurology for decades. However, despite his pioneering achievements, his name has almost become unknown within medical terminology. This article, therefore, wishes to revive an awareness not only of the most important stages in Strmpell's life in Erlangen, Leipzig, Breslau (Wrocaw), and Vienna, but also of his scientific achievements, focusing primarily on his neurological studies. To this end, the article reviews his most important publications on the subject and seeks to evaluate their and hence Strmpell's impact on the understanding of certain illnesses.
The association between common neuroradiological markers of multiple sclerosis (MS) and clinical disability is weak, a phenomenon known as the clinico-radiological paradox. Here, we investigated to which degree it is possible to predict individual disease profiles from conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using multivariate analysis algorithms. Specifically, we conducted cross-validated canonical correlation analyses to investigate the predictive information contained in conventional MRI data of 40 MS patients for the following clinical parameters: disease duration, motor disability (9-Hole Peg Test, Timed 25-Foot Walk Test), cognitive dysfunction (Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test), and the expanded disability status scale (EDSS). It turned out that the information in the spatial patterning of MRI data predicted the clinical scores with correlations of up to 0.80 (p &lt; 10(-9)). Maximal predictive information for disease duration was identified in the precuneus and somatosensory cortex. Areas in the precuneus and precentral gyrus were maximally informative for motor disability. Cognitive dysfunction could best be predicted using data from the angular gyrus and superior parietal lobe. For EDSS, the inferior frontal gyrus was maximally informative. In conclusion, conventional MRI is highly predictive of clinical disability in MS when pattern-based algorithms are used for prediction. Thus, the so-called clinico-radiological paradox is not apparent when using suitable analysis techniques.
Eye tics seem to be common in Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (GTS). We analyzed the frequency and clinical characteristics of eye tics in 212 GTS patients. Of the 212 patients, 201 (94.8 %) reported eye tics in their life-time; 166 (78.3 %) reported eye movement tics (rolling eyes up/down, eyes looking sideways, staring), and 194 (91.5 %) eyelid/eyebrow movement tics (frowning, raising eyebrows, blinking or winking). Patients with eye movement tics were younger at age of GTS onset (7.1  4 years) than those without (8.9  6.8; p = 0.024). Tic severity positively correlated to lifetime history of eye and/or eyelid/eyebrow movement tics. Our data confirm that eye and eyelid/eyebrow movement tics are very common in GTS, and most patients have several types of eye tics over time. Eye tic phenomenology was similar in patients with or without co-morbidity. Eye tics are therefore likely to be a core feature of GTS and should be routinely evaluated in order to strengthen the clinician's confidence in diagnosing GTS.
Elevated homocysteine (Hcy) levels exert several neurotoxic actions and vascular dysfunctions that may be involved in pathogenesis and progression of multiple sclerosis (MS). The effective role of Hcy in MS however remains to be determined. The aim of this work was to compare plasma Hcy levels in MS patients and neurological disease controls (NDC) and to evaluate their relationships with clinical and demographic variables. In this cross-sectional study, we examined plasma Hcy levels in 217 patients with MS [53 clinically isolated syndromes (CIS) suggestive of MS, 134 relapsing remitting (RR), 23 secondary progressive (SP) and seven primary progressive (PP) MS], recruited among patients attending a tertiary clinical center in southern Italy and in 219 age/sex-matched controls. Median Hcy levels were slightly higher in MS patients compared to NDC (9.1 mol/l; range, 3.4-35.9 vs. 8.6, range 3.5-27.4; p = 0.02). Median Hcy concentrations were increased in males more than in females in the MS population (10.4 vs. 8.4; p &lt; 0.0001), whereas no differences across genders were found in NDC (9.1 vs. 8.5). Hcy levels were higher in male MS patients compared to the male NDC patients (p = 0.001). Patients with CIS had lower Hcy (7.5 mol/l; p = 0.004) compared to patients with RR (9.5 mol/l), SP (10.1 mol/l) and PP (9.9 mol/l). Median Hcy concentration was higher in patients with disease duration longer than 22 months (9.7 vs. 8.6 mol/l; p = 0.02). Plasma Hcy levels are increased in patients with definite MS. Higher Hcy levels are associated with male sex, suggesting a role of Hcy in neurodegenerative processes of MS, which are prominent in male patients.
B cell dyscrasias are often refractory to medical treatments, and hematological stem cell therapy (SCT) may be warranted. It is not clear whether an associated polyneuropathy may also profit from SCT. In exceptional cases SCT has been tried in patients with monoclonal gammopathy and progressive polyneuropathy refractory to medical treatments. In a cohort of 225 patients with monoclonal gammopathy and polyneuropathy, we selected the six patients who underwent SCT and retrospectively examined the effects of SCT on the disease course of the associated polyneuropathy. In all patients except one, the indication for SCT was hemato-oncological (multiple myeloma in 4 patients and primary AL amyloidosis in 1). The remaining patient had an IgG monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance and a progressive and painful polyneuropathy for which she was treated with SCT. SCT led to improvement of motor scores and autonomic symptoms in one patient; three patients experienced improvement of neuropathic pain or sensory deficits but showed further progression of weakness. One patient showed no improvement at all. One patient died within 100 days after SCT. In conclusion, SCT as a treatment of refractory hematological malignancy may occasionally have a positive effect on the associated progressive polyneuropathy, although the benefits are very limited and the treatment-related mortality is high.
Transcranial electrical stimulation (tES) is a promising therapeutic tool for a range of neurological diseases. Understanding how the small currents used in tES spread across the scalp and penetrate the brain will be important for the rational design of tES therapies. Alternating currents applied transcranially above visual cortex induce the perception of flashes of light (phosphenes). This makes the visual system a useful model to study tES. One hypothesis is that tES generates phosphenes by direct stimulation of the cortex underneath the transcranial electrode. Here, we provide evidence for the alternative hypothesis that phosphenes are generated in the retina by current spread from the occipital electrode. Building on the existing literature, we first confirm that phosphenes are induced at lower currents when electrodes are placed farther away from visual cortex and closer to the eye. Second, we explain the temporal frequency tuning of phosphenes based on the well-known response properties of primate retinal ganglion cells. Third, we show that there is no difference in the time it takes to evoke phosphenes in the retina or by stimulation above visual cortex. Together, these findings suggest that phosphenes induced by tES over visual cortex originate in the retina. From this, we infer that tES currents spread well beyond the area of stimulation and are unlikely to lead to focal neural activation. Novel stimulation protocols that optimize current distributions are needed to overcome these limitations of tES.
The question of how infants attain upright sitting is at the core of understanding the development of most functional abilities. Our simple, practical method of securing the hips and different trunk segments while evaluating the infant's ability to vertically align and stabilize the trunk in space contributes a useful method and new insights into the development of upright control. Previous studies have considered the trunk to develop as a single segment. The goal of the present study was to examine how postural control changes across multiple trunk segments during typical development (TD) of sitting balance. For this purpose, electromyography (EMG) and kinematic data were collected at four levels of trunk support (axillae, midribs, waist, hips), in a longitudinal study of eight TD infants (3-9 mo of age). We found that developmental changes in stability were specific to the region of the trunk being investigated, changes in antagonistic muscle activity differed for the anterior-posterior versus the medial-lateral axis, and the relationship between muscle activation and movement changed from erratic attempts to gain upright position to anticipatory graded responses as infants developed upright control through a four-stage behavioral process. This information can be used by researchers to further refine hypotheses regarding this developmental process and by clinicians who wish to develop and test more specific treatment programs for children with postural dysfunction.
When perceiving properties of the world, we effortlessly combine multiple sensory cues into optimal estimates. Estimates derived from the individual cues are generally retained once the multisensory estimate is produced and discarded only if the cues stem from the same sensory modality (i.e., mandatory fusion). Does multisensory integration differ in that respect when the object of perception is one's own body, rather than an external variable? We quantified how humans combine visual and vestibular information for perceiving own-body rotations and specifically tested whether such idiothetic cues are subjected to mandatory fusion. Participants made extensive size comparisons between successive whole body rotations using only visual, only vestibular, and both senses together. Probabilistic descriptions of the subjects' perceptual estimates were compared with a Bayes-optimal integration model. Similarity between model predictions and experimental data echoed a statistically optimal mechanism of multisensory integration. Most importantly, size discrimination data for rotations composed of both stimuli was best accounted for by a model in which only the bimodal estimator is accessible for perceptual judgments as opposed to an independent or additive use of all three estimators (visual, vestibular, and bimodal). Indeed, subjects' thresholds for detecting two multisensory rotations as different from one another were, in pertinent cases, larger than those measured using either single-cue estimate alone. Rotations different in terms of the individual visual and vestibular inputs but quasi-identical in terms of the integrated bimodal estimate became perceptual metamers. This reveals an exceptional case of mandatory fusion of cues stemming from two different sensory modalities.
The striatum is connected to the cerebral cortex through multiple anatomical loops that process sensory, limbic, and heteromodal information. Tract-tracing studies in the monkey reveal that these corticostriatal connections form stereotyped patterns in the striatum. Here the organization of the striatum was explored in the human with resting-state functional connectivity MRI (fcMRI). Data from 1,000 subjects were registered with nonlinear deformation of the striatum in combination with surface-based alignment of the cerebral cortex. fcMRI maps derived from seed regions placed in the foot and tongue representations of the motor cortex yielded the expected inverted somatotopy in the putamen. fcMRI maps derived from the supplementary motor area were located medially to the primary motor representation, also consistent with anatomical studies. The topography of the complete striatum was estimated and replicated by assigning each voxel in the striatum to its most strongly correlated cortical network in two independent groups of 500 subjects. The results revealed at least five cortical zones in the striatum linked to sensorimotor, premotor, limbic, and two association networks with a topography globally consistent with monkey anatomical studies. The majority of the human striatum was coupled to cortical association networks. Examining these association networks further revealed details that fractionated the five major networks. The resulting estimates of striatal organization provide a reference for exploring how the striatum contributes to processing motor, limbic, and heteromodal information through multiple large-scale corticostriatal circuits.
Early visual evoked potentials (VEPs) measured in humans have recently been observed to be modulated by the image statistics of natural scene imagery. Specifically, the early VEP is dominated by a strong positivity when participants view minimally complex natural scene imagery, with the magnitude of that component being modulated by luminance contrast differences across spatial frequency (i.e., the slope of the amplitude spectrum). For scenes high in structural complexity, the early VEP is dominated by a prominent negativity that exhibits little dependency on luminance contrast. However, since natural scene imagery is broad band in terms of spatial frequency, it is not known whether the above-mentioned modulation results from a complex interaction within or between the early neural processes tuned to different bands of spatial frequency. Here, we sought to address this question by measuring early VEPs (specifically, the C1, P1, and N1 components) while human participants viewed natural scene imagery that was filtered to contain specific bands of spatial frequency information. The results show that the C1 component is largely unmodulated by the luminance statistics of natural scene imagery (being only measurable when such stimuli were made to contain high spatial frequencies). The P1 and N1, on the other hand, were observed to exhibit strong spatial frequency-dependent modulation to the luminance statistics of natural scene imagery. The results therefore suggest that the dependency of early VEPs on natural image statistics results from an interaction between the early neural processes tuned to different bands of spatial frequency.
Our percept of visual stability across saccadic eye movements may be mediated by presaccadic remapping. Just before a saccade, neurons that remap become visually responsive at a future field (FF), which anticipates the saccade vector. Hence, the neurons use corollary discharge of saccades. Many of the neurons also decrease their response at the receptive field (RF). Presaccadic remapping occurs in several brain areas including the frontal eye field (FEF), which receives corollary discharge of saccades in its layer IV from a collicular-thalamic pathway. We studied, at two levels, the microcircuitry of remapping in the FEF. At the laminar level, we compared remapping between layers IV and V. At the cellular level, we compared remapping between different neuron types of layer IV. In the FEF in four monkeys (Macaca mulatta), we identified 27 layer IV neurons with orthodromic stimulation and 57 layer V neurons with antidromic stimulation from the superior colliculus. With the use of established criteria, we classified the layer IV neurons as putative excitatory (n = 11), putative inhibitory (n = 12), or ambiguous (n = 4). We found that just before a saccade, putative excitatory neurons increased their visual response at the RF, putative inhibitory neurons showed no change, and ambiguous neurons increased their visual response at the FF. None of the neurons showed presaccadic visual changes at both RF and FF. In contrast, neurons in layer V showed full remapping (at both the RF and FF). Our data suggest that elemental signals for remapping are distributed across neuron types in early cortical processing and combined in later stages of cortical microcircuitry.
Independent control of finger movements characterizes skilled motor behaviors such as tool use and musical performance. The purpose of the present study was to identify the effect of movement frequency (tempo) on individuated finger movements in piano playing. Joint motion at the digits was recorded while 5 expert pianists were playing 30 excerpts from musical pieces with different fingering and key locations either at a predetermined normal tempo or as fast as possible. Principal component analysis and cluster analysis using an expectation-maximization algorithm determined three distinct patterns of finger movement coordination for a keypress with each of the index, middle, ring, and little fingers at each of the two tempi. The finger kinematics of each coordination pattern was overall similar across the tempi. Tone sequences assigned into each cluster were also similar for both tempi. A linear regression analysis determined no apparent difference in the amount of movement covariation between the striking and nonstriking fingers at both metacarpo-phalangeal and proximal-interphalangeal joints across the two tempi, which indicated no effect of tempo on independent finger movements in piano playing. In addition, the standard deviation of interkeystroke interval across strokes did not differ between the two tempi, indicating maintenance of rhythmic accuracy of keystrokes. Strong temporal constraints on finger movements during piano playing may underlie the maintained independent control of fingers over a wider range of tempi, a feature being likely to be specific to skilled pianists.
Many sensory systems are endowed with mechanisms of neural plasticity that are restricted to a sensitive period in the young developing animal. In this study, we performed experiments in slices of the main olfactory bulb (OB) from rats to examine possible age-dependent cellular mechanisms of plasticity in the olfactory system. We focused on the neurotransmitter norepinephrine (NE), shown to be important in different forms of olfactory learning, examining whether two specific cellular effects of NE previously observed in rats less than P14 extended to older animals. These included an acute reduction in GABAergic synaptic transmission from granule cells (GCs) onto output mitral cells (MCs) and an enhancement in gamma frequency (30-70 Hz) oscillations that persists long after removal of NE. We found that NE failed to reduce GC-to-MC transmission or enhance gamma oscillations in older rats at P18-23. The loss of NE actions on both phenomena appeared to reflect an age-dependent loss of function of (2)-adrenergic receptors. In addition, we found that NE induced an age-dependent enhancement of transient excitation in MCs, providing a mechanism to link the acute decrease in GC-to-MC inhibition to the long-term increase in gamma oscillations through increases in intracellular calcium. The age-dependent cellular mechanisms that we describe could underlie an olfactory-sensitive period in newborn rodents.
Certain hand-held tools alter the mapping between hand motion and motion of the tool end point that must be controlled in order to perform a task. For example, when using a pool cue, the motion of the cue tip is reversed relative to the hand. Previous studies have shown that the time required to initiate a reaching movement (Fernandez-Ruiz J, Wong W, Armstrong IT, Flanagan JR. Behav Brain Res 219: 8-14, 2011), or correct an ongoing reaching movement (Gritsenko V, Kalaska JF. J Neurophysiol 104: 3084-3104, 2010), is prolonged when the mapping between hand motion and motion of a cursor controlled by the hand is reversed. Here we show that these time costs can be significantly reduced when the reversal is instantiated by a virtual hand-held tool. Participants grasped the near end of a virtual tool, consisting of a rod connecting two circles, and moved the end point to displayed targets. In the reversal condition, the rod translated through, and rotated about, a pivot point such that there was a left-right reversal between hand and end point motion. In the nonreversal control, the tool translated with the hand. As expected, when only the two circles were presented, movement initiation and correction times were much longer in the reversal condition. However, when full vision of the tool was provided, the reaction time cost was almost eliminated. These results indicate that tools with complex kinematics can be efficiently incorporated into sensorimotor control mechanisms used in movement planning and online control.
The phase-response curve (PRC), relating the phase shift of an oscillator to external perturbation, is an important tool to study neurons and their population behavior. It can be experimentally estimated by measuring the phase changes caused by probe stimuli. These stimuli, usually short pulses or continuous noise, have a much wider frequency spectrum than that of neuronal dynamics. This makes the experimental data high dimensional while the number of data samples tends to be small. Current PRC estimation methods have not been optimized for efficiently discovering the relevant degrees of freedom from such data. We propose a systematic and efficient approach based on a recently developed signal processing theory called compressive sensing (CS). CS is a framework for recovering sparsely constructed signals from undersampled data and is suitable for extracting information about the PRC from finite but high-dimensional experimental measurements. We illustrate how the CS algorithm can be translated into an estimation scheme and demonstrate that our CS method can produce good estimates of the PRCs with simulated and experimental data, especially when the data size is so small that simple approaches such as naive averaging fail. The tradeoffs between degrees of freedom vs. goodness-of-fit were systematically analyzed, which help us to understand better what part of the data has the most predictive power. Our results illustrate that finite sizes of neuroscientific data in general compounded by large dimensionality can hamper studies of the neural code and suggest that CS is a good tool for overcoming this challenge.
Recent findings indicate that the motor and premotor cortices are hyperexcitable in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). The authors have performed the first randomized, double-blind clinical trial of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in OCD, with a 3-month follow-up. OCD patients (N=22) were assigned to either 2 weeks of active or sham rTMS to the supplementary motor area bilaterally. After 14 weeks, the response rate was 41% (7/12) with active and 10% (1/10) with sham treatment. At 14 weeks, patients receiving active rTMS showed, on average, a 35% reduction on the Y-BOCS, as compared with a 6.2% reduction in those receiving sham treatment.
Although comorbid psychiatric illness is increasingly being recognized in patients with mitochondrial disorders, there has been relatively little attention to psychiatric symptomatology as the primary clinical presentation. The authors report detailed clinical, biochemical, neuroradiological, and genetic findings in a series of 12 patients with mitochondrial disorders in whom psychiatric symptoms were a prominent aspect of the clinical presentation. The psychiatric presentations included depression, anorexia nervosa, bipolar disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorder. A review of the literature, in conjunction with the present series, indicates that psychiatric symptoms can be the presenting feature of mitochondrial disorders and highlights the importance of considering this diagnosis.
Several studies have successfully employed GM1 ganglioside to treat animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD), suggesting involvement of this ganglioside in PD etiology. We recently demonstrated that genetically engineered mice (B4galnt1(-/-) ) devoid of GM1 acquire characteristic symptoms of this disorder, including motor impairment, depletion of striatal dopamine, selective loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing neurons, and aggregation of -synuclein. The present study demonstrates similar symptoms in heterozygous mice (HTs) that express only partial GM1 deficiency. Symptoms were alleviated by administration of L-dopa or LIGA-20, a membrane-permeable analog of GM1 that penetrates the blood-brain barrier and accesses intracellular compartments. Immunohistochemical analysis of paraffin sections from PD patients revealed significant GM1 deficiency in nigral dopaminergic neurons compared with age-matched controls. This was comparable to the GM1 deficiency of HT mice and suggests that GM1 deficiency may be a contributing factor to idiopathic PD. We propose that HT mice with partial GM1 deficiency constitute an especially useful model for PD, reflecting the actual pathophysiology of this disorder. The results point to membrane-permeable analogs of GM1 as holding promise as a form of GM1 replacement therapy.

The year 2012 marks the 40th anniversary of the Society of Neuroscience in Anesthesiology and Critical Care (SNACC). To celebrate this occasion, we provide a review, speculative synthesis, and commentary addressing research relevant to neurosurgical anesthesiology in 1973 and 1974--the early years of SNACC. We address topics such as effects of anesthetic drugs, neuroprotection, cerebral physiology, and monitoring as they relate to the perioperative care of neurosurgical patients or patients experiencing or at risk for neurological disorders. Our hypothesis is that a review of these publications will identify the foundations of research and practice concepts that persist until today and will also identify concepts that have dwindled or outright disappeared.
The 40-year history of the Society of Neurosurgical Anesthesia and Critical Care (SNACC) is reviewed. Annual meetings have been a focus for reporting scientific advances and providing education to those attending. The society has undergone significant maturation dealing with transitions in leadership and dealing with an existential threat and undergoing name changes reflecting growth and maturation in its mission. SNACC has collaborated with several other professional societies, most notable being the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA), in which SNACC members have advocated for neuroscience in the ASA's educational and scientific activities, with several SNACC members being recognized through several major ASA awards and presentations. SNACC has been a strong advocate for educational advances, most recently addressing issues in neuroanesthesia fellowship accreditation and possibly certification. SNACC's initial North American focus has grown such that SNACC is now an international society dedicated to the advancement of neuroanesthesia, neurocritical care, neuromonitoring, and neuroscience.

A polymorphism (rs28357094) in the promoter region of the SPP1 gene coding for osteopontin (OPN) is a strong determinant of disease severity in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). The rare G allele of rs28357094 alters gene promoter function and reduces mRNA expression in transfected HeLa cells. To dissect the molecular mechanisms of increased disease severity associated with the G allele, we characterized SPP1 mRNA and protein in DMD muscle biopsies of patients with defined rs28357094 genotype. We did not find significant differences in osteopontin mRNA or protein expression between patients carrying the T (ancestral allele) or TG/GG genotypes at rs28357094. The G allele was significantly associated with reduced CD4(+) and CD68(+) cells on patient muscle biopsy. We also quantified transforming growth factor- (TGFB) and TGFB receptor-2 (TGFBR2) mRNA in DMD muscle biopsies, given the ability of TGFB and TGFBR2 to activate SPP1 promoter region and their role in DMD pathogenesis. The amount of TGFB and TGFBR2 mRNA did not predict the amount of SPP1 mRNA or protein, while a polymorphism in the TGFBR2 gene (rs4522809) was found to be a strong predictor of SPP1 mRNA level. Our findings suggest that OPN mediates inflammatory changes in DMD and that TGFB signalling has a role in the complex regulation of osteopontin expression.

Within the group I family of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), substantial evidence points to a role for mGluR5 mechanisms in cocaine's abuse-related behavioral effects, but less is understood about the contribution of mGluR1, which also belongs to the group I mGluR family. The selective mGluR1 antagonist JNJ16259685 [(3,4-dihydro-2H-pyrano-[2,3-b]quinolin-7-yl)-(cis-4-methoxycyclohexyl)-methanone] was used to investigate the role of mGluR1 in the behavioral effects of cocaine and methamphetamine. In drug discrimination experiments, squirrel monkeys were trained to discriminate cocaine from saline by using a two-lever, food-reinforced operant procedure. JNJ16259685 (0.56 mg/kg) pretreatments significantly attenuated cocaine's discriminative stimulus effects and the cocaine-like discriminative stimulus effects of methamphetamine. In monkeys trained to self-administer cocaine or methamphetamine under a second-order schedule of intravenous drug injection, JNJ16259685 (0.56 mg/kg) significantly reduced drug-reinforced responding, resulting in a downward displacement of dose-response functions. In reinstatement studies, intravenous priming with cocaine accompanied by restoration of a cocaine-paired stimulus reinstated extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior, which was significantly attenuated by JNJ16259685 (0.56 mg/kg). Finally, in experiments involving food rather than drug self-administration, cocaine and methamphetamine increased the rate of responding, and the rate-increasing effects of both psychostimulants were significantly attenuated by JNJ16259685 (0.3 mg/kg). At the doses tested, JNJ16259685 did not significantly suppress food-reinforced behavior (drug discrimination or fixed-interval schedule of food delivery), but did significantly reduce species-typical locomotor activity in observational studies. To the extent that the psychostimulant-antagonist effects of JNJ16259685 are independent of motor function suppression, further research is warranted to investigate other mGluR1 antagonists for potential therapeutic value in psychostimulant abuse.
There is growing evidence supporting a role for histamine H(3) receptors in the modulation of pathological pain. To further our understanding of this modulation, we examined the effects of a selective H(3) receptor antagonist, 6-((3-cyclobutyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepin-7-yl)oxy)-N-methyl-3-pyridinecarboxamide (GSK189254), on spinal neuronal activity in neuropathic (L5 and L6 ligations) and sham rats. Systemic administration of GSK189254 (0.03-1 mg/kg i.v.) dose-dependently decreased both evoked (10-g von Frey hair for 15 s) and spontaneous firing of wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in neuropathic, but not sham-operated, animals. The effects on spontaneous firing suggest that H(3) receptors may have a role in central sensitization and/or modulating non-evoked pain. Transection of the spinal cord (T9-T10) completely eliminated the effects (both evoked and spontaneous) of systemic GSK189254 (1 mg/kg, i.v.) on WDR neuronal firing in neuropathic rats, indicating that the descending modulatory system has an important role in the H(3)-related dampening of spinal neuronal activity. Subsequently, lesions of the locus coeruleus, or direct GSK189254 (3 and 10 nmol/0.5 l) injections into this site, demonstrate that the locus coeruleus is a key component of the H(3) descending modulatory pathway. In summary, blockade of H(3) receptors reduces spontaneous firing as well as the responses of spinal nociceptive neurons to mechanical stimulation. This effect is in large part mediated via supraspinal sites, including the locus coeruleus, that send descending projections to modulate spinal neuronal activity.
Despite maximal voluntary effort, the output of human motoneurone pools diminishes during fatigue. To assess motoneurone behaviour, we measured recurrent discharges evoked antidromically by supramaximal nerve stimulation after isometric maximal voluntary contractions (MVCs).They were measured as F-waves in the electromyographic activity (EMG). Supramaximal stimuli to the common peroneal and ulnar nerves evoked F-waves at rest before and after MVCs in tibialis anterior (TA) and abductor digit minimi (ADM), respectively. F-waves were depressed immediately after a sustained MVC. For TA, the size and time course of depression of the F-wave area (26  13%; mean  SD; P =0.007) and persistence (20%) were similar after a 10-s or 1-min MVC. For ADM, the decline in F-wave area (39.8  19.6%; P &lt;0.01) was similar after the two contractions but the decline in persistence (probability of occurrence) of the F-wave differed (14.6  10.5% and 32.5  17.1% after 10-s and 1-min MVCs respectively). Comparison of a very long (2-min) with a very short (2-s)MVC in ADM showed that the depression of F-wave area, as well as persistence, was greater after the longer contraction. This suggests, at least for ADM, that the depression is related to the duration of voluntary activity and that the decrease in F-waves could contribute to central fatigue. To examine whether changes in motor axon excitability caused the depression, we measured compound muscle action potentials (M-waves) to submaximal stimulation of the ulnar nerve after a 2-s and 2-min MVC. Submaximal M-waves were not depressed after a 2-s MVC. They were depressed by a 2-min MVC, but the time course of depression of the F- and M-waves differed. Thus, depression of F-waves does not simply reflect reduced excitability of peripheral motor axons.Hence, we propose that activity-dependent changes at the soma or the initial segment depress the recurrent discharge of human motoneurones and that this may contribute to central fatigue.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is critically involved in the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders, which often emerge during brain development. Several studies have characterized postnatal changes to the morphology and biochemistry of BLA neurons, and many more have identified sensitive periods of emotional maturation. However, it is impossible to determine how BLA development contributes to emotional development or the aetiology of psychiatric disorders because no study has characterized the physiological maturation of BLA neurons. We addressed this critical knowledge gap for the first time using whole-cell patch clamp recording in rat BLA principal neurons to measure electrophysiological properties at postnatal day (P)7, P10, P14, P21, P28 and after P35. We show that intrinsic properties of these neurons undergo significant transitions before P21 and reach maturity around P28. Specifically, we observed significant reductions in input resistance and membrane time constant of nearly 10-and 4-fold, respectively, from P7 to P28. The frequency selectivity of these neurons to input also changed significantly, with peak resonance frequency increasing from 1.0 Hz at P7 to 5.7 Hz at P28. In the same period, maximal firing frequency significantly increased and doublets and triplets of action potentials emerged. Concomitantly, individual action potentials became significantly faster, firing threshold hyperpolarized 6.7 mV, the medium AHP became faster and shallower, and a fast AHP emerged. These results demonstrate neurons of the BLA undergo vast change throughout postnatal development, and studies of emotional development and treatments for juvenile psychiatric disorders should consider the dynamic physiology of the immature BLA.

Several phosphodiesterase inhibitors (PDEis) improve cognition, suggesting that an increase in brain cAMP and cGMP facilitates learning and memory. Since extinction of drug-seeking behavior requires associative learning, consolidation and formation of new memory, the present study investigated the efficacy of three different PDEis in the extinction of cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in B6129S mice. Mice were conditioned by escalating doses of cocaine which was resistant to extinction by free exploration. Immediately following each extinction session mice received (a) saline/vehicle, (b) rolipram (PDE4 inhibitor), (c) BAY-73-6691 (PDE9 inhibitor) or (d) papaverine (PDE10A inhibitor). Mice that received saline/vehicle during extinction training showed no reduction in CPP for &gt;10 days. BAY-73-6691 (a) dose-dependently increased cGMP in hippocampus and amygdala, (b) significantly facilitated extinction and (c) diminished the reinstatement of cocaine CPP. Rolipram, which selectively increased brain cAMP levels, and papaverine which caused increases in both cAMP and cGMP levels, had no significant effect on the extinction of cocaine CPP. The results suggest that increase in hippocampal and amygdalar cGMP levels via blockade of PDE9 has a prominent role in the consolidation of extinction learning.
There is growing evidence that drugs of abuse alter processing of emotional information in ways that could be attractive to users. Our recent report that -tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) diminishes amygdalar activation in response to threat-related faces suggests that THC may modify evaluation of emotionally-salient, particularly negative or threatening, stimuli. In this study, we examined the effects of acute THC on evaluation of emotional images. Healthy volunteers received two doses of THC (7.5 and 15 mg; p.o.) and placebo across separate sessions before performing tasks assessing facial emotion recognition and emotional responses to pictures of emotional scenes. THC significantly impaired recognition of facial fear and anger, but it only marginally impaired recognition of sadness and happiness. The drug did not consistently affect ratings of emotional scenes. THC's effects on emotional evaluation were not clearly related to its mood-altering effects. These results support our previous work, and show that THC reduces perception of facial threat. Nevertheless, THC does not appear to positively bias evaluation of emotional stimuli in general.
The D2-like dopamine receptors mediate the emotional/aversive state during morphine withdrawal. Given age-dependent differences in the affective responses to withdrawal, this study examined whether the response to dopamine receptor agonists is altered differentially across ages following morphine administration. Adolescent and adult mice were injected with morphine (twice daily, 10-40 mg/kg, s.c.) or saline for 6 days. Subsequently, they were examined for their locomotor response to quinpirole, a D2/D3 receptor agonist, and SKF 38393, a D1 receptor agonist. Quinpirole dose-dependently reduced locomotion in drug-nave animals. Initial suppression was also observed in morphine-treated animals, but was followed by enhanced locomotion. Notably, this enhanced locomotion was markedly greater in adolescents than adults. Quinpirole-induced hypo-locomotion is thought to be mediated by the presynaptic D2Short receptors, whereas its activating effect is mediated by postsynaptic D2Long/D3 receptors. This suggests that following morphine administration, the postsynaptic, but not the presynaptic, dopaminergic signaling is differentially modulated across ages. This locomotor supersensitivity was not observed for SKF 38393, a D1 dopamine receptor agonist. The D2/D3 receptors are involved in the pathophysiology of many mental illnesses. Thus, this study offers a potential explanation for the increased psychiatric disorder co-morbidities when drug use begins during adolescence.





Functional outcome after stroke varies significantly between countries. However, whether health-related quality of life (QoL) after stroke also differs between countries is unknown. TAIST was a randomised controlled trial assessing the safety and efficacy of tinzaparin versus aspirin in 1484 patients with acute ischaemic stroke across 11 countries. Countries were grouped into 5 geographic regions: British Isles (Ireland and UK), Franco (Belgium and France), North America (Canada), northwest Europe (Germany and The Netherlands), and Scandinavia (Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden). QoL was measured at 6 months using the Short-Form 36 (SF-36) health survey. The relationship between region and QoL was assessed relative to the British Isles using linear regression adjusted for case mix, service quality variables, and treatment assignment. A total of 1220 survivors were included in this analysis. Significant differences in QoL were identified between countries and regions; northwest Europe rated their QoL highest in terms of physical functioning (20.3; 95% confidence interval [CI] 10.8-29.8), bodily pain (12.3; 95% CI, 2.7-22.0), and vitality (9.0; 95% CI, 1.1-16.9). Franco countries reported the lowest QoL for emotional role (-17.9; 95% CI, -32.6 to -3.3) and mental health (-11.2; 95% CI, -18.2 to -4.3). The British Isles rated QoL lowest for physical and social functioning. Our data indicate that QoL varies considerably among countries and regions, even when adjusted for prognostic case mix and care quality variables. How different case mixes and healthcare systems might contribute to these findings merits further investigation.
A concentrated review on the toxicology of inorganic mercury together with an extensive review on the neurotoxicology of methylmercury is presented. The challenges of using inorganic mercury in dental amalgam are reviewed both regarding the occupational exposure and the possible health problems for the dental patients. The two remaining &quot;mysteries&quot; of methylmercury neurotoxicology are also being reviewed; the cellular selectivity and the delayed onset of symptoms. The relevant literature on these aspects has been discussed and some suggestions towards explaining these observations have been presented.

There has been a growing emphasis on the use of core competencies to design and inform curricula. Based on our Faculty for Undergraduate Neuroscience workshop at Pomona we developed a set of neuroscience core competencies. Following the workshop, faculty members were asked to complete an online survey to determine which core competencies are considered most essential and the results are presented. Backward Design principles are then described and we discuss how core competencies, through a backward design process, can be used to design and assess an undergraduate neuroscience curriculum. Oberlin College is used as a case study to describe the use of core competencies to help develop learning objectives, activities, and assessment measures for an undergraduate neuroscience major.
In this article, I discuss the ways that faculty can work with academic administrators to advance neuroscience programs. To be successful in making the case for resources, you should identify the institutional and administrative priorities, and be sure that your proposal aligns well with those. You should demonstrate the need and expected benefits that the additional resources will provide for the students and institution, and you should muster a group of like-minded colleagues who support your proposal. Expect that the process may extend over several years, as resource constraints and proposals from other programs will compete with yours and possibly delay your obtaining the resources you seek. Patience, persistence, and politeness will all come in handy during these potentially prolonged negotiations.
The sympathetic skin response can be measured across the hands and feet with a simple bio amplifier. Controlled by the sympathetic nervous system, this response results from the activation of the eccrine sweat glands by many types of stimuli. This classical clinical test is used to evaluate peripheral neuropathies caused by a wide range of diseases, and can easily be adapted to teach a range of physiology applicable to neuroscience curricula.
Laboratory courses in neurophysiology fulfill a critical need for inquiry-based training in undergraduate programs in neuroscience and biology. These courses typically use classical electrophysiological preparations to explore the basic features of neuronal function. However, current neuroscience research also focuses on elucidating the molecular and genetic mechanisms of neuronal function, using model systems that include mutant and transgenic animals. To bridge laboratory training in neurophysiology with modern molecular genetics, we describe a teaching model based on electroretinography of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, a long-established model system for basic neuroscience research. Drosophila are easily maintained, economical, and have hundreds of neurophysiologically relevant mutant strains and genetic tools readily available. The Drosophila electroretinogram (ERG) is a simple and accessible extracellular recording of a neural signal in the fly eye in response to flashes of light. The signal is multifaceted and the response is sensitive to stimulation parameters such as intensity, duration and wavelength, thus forming a rich source of analysis for students. Most importantly, different mutations affecting key components of intracellular signaling, synaptic transmission or neuronal function can affect the ERG waveform in characteristic ways. Recording wild type and mutant ERGs allows students to examine firsthand the connection between genetics, biochemical pathways, and electrophysiology. This neurophysiology laboratory course can facilitate and enhance an understanding of the cellular and molecular contributions to neurophysiological recordings.
The traditional science lecture, where an instructor delivers a carefully crafted monolog to a large audience of students who passively receive the information, has been a popular mode of instruction for centuries. Recent evidence on the science of teaching and learning indicates that learner-centered, active teaching strategies can be more effective learning tools than traditional lectures. Yet most colleges and universities retain lectures as their central instructional method. This article highlights several simple collaborative teaching techniques that can be readily deployed within traditional lecture frameworks to promote active learning. Specifically, this article briefly introduces the techniques of: reader's theatre, think-pair-share, roundtable, jigsaw, in-class quizzes, and minute papers. Each technique is broadly applicable well beyond neuroscience courses and easily modifiable to serve an instructor's specific pedagogical goals. The benefits of each technique are described along with specific examples of how each technique might be deployed within a traditional lecture to create more active learning experiences.
Because of its focus on the biological underpinnings of action and behavior, neuroscience intersects with many fields of human endeavor. Some of these cross-disciplinary intersections have been long standing, while others, such as neurotheology or neuroeconomics, are more recently formed fields. Many undergraduate institutions have sought to include cross-disciplinary courses in their curriculum because this style of pedagogy is often seen as applicable to real world problems. However, it can be difficult for faculty with specialized training within their discipline to expand beyond their own fields to offer cross-disciplinary courses. I have been creating a series of multi- or cross-disciplinary courses and have found some strategies that have helped me successfully teach these classes. I will discuss general strategies and tools in developing these types of courses including: 1) creating mixed experience classrooms of students and contributing faculty 2) finding the right tools that will allow you to teach to a mixed population without prerequisites 3) examining the topic using multiple disciplinary perspectives 4) feeding off student experience and interest 5) assessing the impact of these courses on student outcomes and your neuroscience program. This last tool in particular is important in establishing the validity of this type of teaching for neuroscience students and the general student population.
In response to the Society for Neuroscience initiative to help improve the neuroscience related content in Wikipedia, I implemented Wikipedia article construction and revision in my Introduction to Neuroscience course at Boston College as a writing intensive and neuroscience related outreach activity. My students worked in small groups to revise neuroscience &quot;stubs&quot; of their choice, many of which had little or no useful content. The exercise resulted in the successful development of well-written Wikipedia neuroscience articles, and was received well by my students, receiving positive marks in our course evaluations. Much of the student guidance and assessment was done by student peer groups as well as other Wikipedia editors outside of our course, reducing the instructor involvement to below that of a typical term paper.
The biology of the 21(st) century requires a revolution in teaching that corresponds to the revolution that the discipline experienced in the last decades of the 20(th) century. Consensus is not a tradition in the many disparate subdisciplines that constitute modern biology, but the demands of effective instruction prompted an unprecedented series of conversations among all the stakeholders of undergraduate biology education. A culminating conference resulted in consensus on both the form and substance of modern biology courses: They should emphasize repeatedly five core concepts and six core competencies in a student-centered, inquiry-driven pedagogy modeled on a number of &quot;best practices.&quot; The conference report can serve as a guide to individual faculty members, departments, and institutions seeking to reform their teaching practices.
Computer simulation is a valuable tool for teaching the fundamentals of neurophysiology in undergraduate laboratories where time and equipment limitations restrict the amount of course content that can be delivered through hands-on interaction. However, students often find such exercises to be tedious and unstimulating. In an effort to engage students in the use of computational modeling while developing a deeper understanding of neurophysiology, an attempt was made to use an educational neurosimulation environment as the basis for a novel, inquiry-based research project. During the semester, students in the class wrote a research proposal, used the Neurodynamix II simulator to generate a large data set, analyzed their modeling results statistically, and presented their findings at the Midbrains Neuroscience Consortium undergraduate poster session. Learning was assessed in the form of a series of short term papers and two 10-min in-class writing responses to the open-ended question, &quot;How do ion channels influence neuronal firing?&quot;, which they completed on weeks 6 and 15 of the semester. Students' answers to this question showed a deeper understanding of neuronal excitability after the project; their term papers revealed evidence of critical thinking about computational modeling and neuronal excitability. Suggestions for the adaptation of this structured-inquiry approach into shorter term lab experiences are discussed.
Many phenomena that we take for granted are illusions - color and motion on a TV or computer monitor, for example, or the impression of space in a stereo music recording. Even the stable image that we perceive when looking directly at the real world is illusory. One of the important lessons from sensory neuroscience is that our perception of the world is constructed rather than received. Sensory illusions effectively capture student interest, but how do you then move on to substantive discussion of neuroscience? This article illustrates several illusions, attempts to connect them to neuroscience, and shows how students can explore and experiment with them. Even when (as is often the case) there is no agreed-upon mechanistic explanation for an illusion, students can form hypotheses and test them by manipulating stimuli and measuring their effects. In effect, students can experiment with illusions using themselves as subjects.
Students today have unprecedented access to technology, the Internet, and social media. Their nearly ubiquitous use of these platforms is well documented. Given that today's students may be primed to learn using a different medium, incorporating various technological elements into the classroom in a manner compatible with traditional approaches to teaching becomes a challenge. We recently designed and implemented a strategy that capitalized on this knowledge. Students in their first neuroscience course were required to create a 3-5 minute digital video using video-making freeware available on any Mac or PC. They used images, text, animation, as well as downloaded music to describe the fundamental process of neurotransmission as it applies to a topic of their choice. In comparison to students taught using other more traditional approaches to demonstrate the process of neurotransmission, we observed that students who took part in the video-making project exhibited better understanding of the neurological process at multiple levels, as defined by Bloom's revised taxonomy. This was true even of students who had no aspirations of pursuing a Neuroscience career, thus suggesting that there was an overall increased level of student engagement regardless of personal career interests. The utility of our approach was validated by both direct and indirect assessments. Importantly, this particular strategy to teaching difficult concepts offers a high degree of flexibility allowing it to potentially be incorporated into any upper-level Neuroscience course.
Capstone courses are becoming increasingly visible on college and university campuses. In this paper, we describe a capstone experience for undergraduate students pursuing our neuroscience concentration. The course is intended to provide an in-depth and interdisciplinary examination of contemporary topics in the field of neuroscience, and is designed for students who have completed the majority of requirements for the concentration. We describe the evolution of such a course, the goals and objectives of the course, and offer a workable model for similar courses in the context of a liberal arts institution. We summarize the positive aspects of such a course, describe the challenges involved in creating a course of this nature, and offer suggestions for successful similar capstone courses in Neuroscience.
Although powerful bioinformatics tools are available for free on the web and are used by neuroscience professionals on a daily basis, neuroscience students are largely ignorant of them. This Neuroinformatics module weaves together several bioinformatics tools to make a comprehensive unit. This unit encompasses quantifying a phenotype through a Quantitative Trait Locus (QTL) analysis, which links phenotype to loci on chromosomes that likely had an impact on the phenotype. Students then are able to sift through a list of genes in the region(s) of the chromosome identified by the QTL analysis and find a candidate gene that has relatively high expression in the brain region of interest. Once such a candidate gene is identified, students can find out more information about the gene, including the cells/layers in which it is expressed, the sequence of the gene, and an article about the gene. All of the resources employed are available at no cost via the internet. Didactic elements of this instructional module include genetics, neuroanatomy, Quantitative Trait Locus analysis, molecular techniques in neuroscience, and statistics-including multiple regression, ANOVA, and a bootstrap technique. This module was presented at the Faculty for Undergraduate Neuroscience (FUN) 2011 Workshop at Pomona College and can be accessed at http://mdcune.psych.ucla.edu/modules/bioinformatics.
Promoting quality mentorship of undergraduate science students has recently emerged as an important strategy for successfully recruiting and retaining students in the sciences. Although numerous faculty members are naturally gifted mentors, most faculty are inserted into a mentorship role with little, if any, training. Successfully mentoring undergraduate science students requires a myriad of skills that can be honed with forethought and practice. In this essay, the value of mentoring, the developmental profile of young adult students, and the traits of a good mentor are explored. The Triangular Model proposed by W. Brad Johnson provides a theoretical framework for the development of effective mentorship. Fifteen tips gleaned from the literature and the author's personal experience are provided to help improve mentoring skills of faculty working with undergraduate science students.
An editorial in Science (Alberts, 2012) has expressed the need to teach &quot;real science,&quot; firmly based on hands-on and inquiry methodology. Also in a recent article, Stevens (2011) highlighted the contrast between the emphasis that federal agencies and professional associations place on science outreach, and the scarcity of support for such activities at the classroom level. To bridge this gap, we have developed a way to redefine science education by involving college students and faculty in &quot;real science&quot; outreach. Incorporating outreach activities into a college science curriculum is an efficient means to affect not only future scientists but also the world at large with which scientists need to communicate. In this paper we describe a Science Education Partnership Award (SEPA) project. The project has been implemented in a minority setting, at a small college of allied health located in one of the most underserved areas of Los Angeles. Some of its outcomes were presented at two Society for Neuroscience meetings (Gizerian et al., 2009; Ayers and de Lacalle, 2010), before being also discussed as an example of outreach program during the FUN summer workshop in Pomona (California) in 2011. This project entails the development of a working partnership between K-12 institutions and college science students and faculty. Participation was voluntary (but college students could request community service credit) and most importantly built on student interests and connections with the community. The three components are described in terms of efficacy (i.e., impact on college students' communication skills) and community value (i.e., impact on educational outcomes for the partner K-12 institution).
In 2007 FUN established the FUN Program and Department Consultations Service, or FUN-PDCS. Since that founding, the service has provided numerous consultation recommendations to undergraduate programs seeking assistance with external program reviews, designing and improving courses and many other programmatic needs. FUN-PDCS, like FUN, is primarily a grassroots organization and draws on the expertise of the FUN membership to aid programs in their more personalized pursuit of the FUN mission: to promote and improve undergraduate neuroscience education and research.
In 2011 FUN celebrated 20 years of training tomorrow's neuroscientists today. Over the past two decades we've become an international organization of members dedicated to excellence in teaching and research at the undergraduate level. FUN has enacted its mission through our flagship journal JUNE, student travel awards, faculty awards, education workshops, and regional conferences. More recent initiatives include the equipment loan program, department/program consulting service, the honor society Nu Rho Psi, and neuroscience study abroad opportunities. FUN is poised to continue enhancing undergraduate neuroscience education and research over the next 20 years.
Consciousness remains a mystery despite centuries of inquiry, but neuroscience research is beginning to offer insights into the conscious brain. Although the influence of neuroscience in decoding consciousness is growing, it is distinctly absent from collegiate education. Many psychology and neuroscience textbooks devote a single paragraph or an appendix to consciousness. Simultaneously absent from undergraduate education are opportunities for students to practice teaching skills. Our course, Consciousness and Mind (PSYC 499), was designed to address these inadequacies. The course was designed and taught by an undergraduate student at Ohio Wesleyan University and supervised by the Director of the Neuroscience program. The class met once a week for a three hour block period, which required active engagement to keep students interested and motivated. Several novel class activities were designed to hold student attention and offer a checkpoint for the student-instructor to assess the strength of the preceding lecture. These activities included varied group discussions, an animal-mind debate, a movie screening, and a final presentation. The course received positive feedback from all who participated. Although the once-a-week class period offered a manageable workload for the student-instructor, more frequent meetings would have strengthened the interaction with the material. With preparation, motivated students, and frequent feedback from a seasoned professional, a student-instructed course can be a rewarding experience for all involved.
To help students master the content of a neurophysiology course, they were asked to participate in collaborative writing projects. In the first two years, students contributed to a class wiki by summarizing one lecture and editing summaries of several others. In the second two years, students worked in teams of three or four to write a series of illustrated chapters spanning the entire semester. The second assignment kept students more engaged than the wiki project, and although they found it a significant amount of work, they also believed that it helped them learn the subject matter. Working in teams, however, was not always a happy experience.
Science facility renovation and expansion projects provide opportunities for faculty members to play a role in working with architects and administrators to produce effective spaces for teaching and research. This article summarizes information regarding the process and design features that have proved beneficial for many recent science facilities projects. Although the context focuses on large projects, the general principles pertain to smaller changes in spaces that individual departments might be pursuing.
Incorporating service learning (SL) components can be a very powerful way to engage students, add relevance, and develop community-building skills. SL experiences can play important roles in neuroscience classes, although the roles can be different depending on the needs of the classes. In this paper, we will present two models of incorporating service learning into neuroscience courses. The first model gives an example of using SL in a non-majors course, and the second model gives an example of using SL in a neuroscience class for neuroscience concentrators. After describing the two sets of experiences, we summarize the positive aspects and the challenges involved in creating SL components in neuroscience courses, develop some keys to success, and then provide a list of additional resources.
Drosophila researchers have developed a powerful suite of genetic techniques for studying the neural basis of animal behavior. Many of these tools can be exported to neuroscience teaching laboratories (Berni et al., 2010; Pulver et al., 2011a,b), but often neuroscience educators lack the basic knowledge and resources to obtain, generate and rear transgenic fruit flies on their own. Fly researchers in turn may take for granted resources that are readily available in research laboratories, but out of reach for educators. Our goal is to provide a primer for neuroscience educators who want to incorporate Drosophila genetics into their teaching, but have limited knowledge of fruit fly genetics, and/or small budgets. First we review the available methods for manipulating gene expression in Drosophila. Then we provide educators with blueprints for obtaining transgenic animals tailored for specific types of teaching modules. We outline simple techniques for rearing transgenic Drosophila, performing genetic crosses, and preparing a teaching laboratory without the use of expensive animal-care facilities. Overall, we try to break down the practical barriers educators may face when integrating modern neurogenetic experiments into teaching laboratories.
Collaborative and international scientific efforts continue to be of increasing importance in the development of successful educational and research programs. The goal of our study abroad program, Neuroscience Seminar in Germany, is to bring this fact to light for undergraduates and make them aware of the global opportunities that exist in the neurosciences and related biological sciences. Here we discuss our experience of conducting a four-week summer study abroad course in collaboration with two universities associated with the German Graduate Schools of Neuroscience: Munich Center for Neurosciences - Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitt (MCN-LMU) and Charit - Universittsmedizin, Berlin (a joint institution of the Freie Universitt and the Humboldt-Universitt). This course combined the historical foundations of neuroscience in Germany with current research programs at these two prominent German research universities. Two weeks were spent at each location and faculty members from the participating universities provided seminars, laboratory exercises, demonstrations and tours. Students were presented with background reading and lecture material prior to the seminars and activities. Additionally, they were responsible for leading seminar-style class discussions through brief presentations and submitting written critical analyses of primary research papers associated with the laboratory exercises. These assignments provided a means to assess learning outcomes, coupled with course evaluations. Overall, this experience may serve as a template for those interested in study abroad course development and research opportunities in the neurosciences.
The lack of racial and ethnic diversity in science, technology, engineering and mathematic or STEM fields requires immediate attention if the United States is to continue to compete in the global marketplace of ideas. Here, the argument is made for immediate action in four specific directions. First, we need to continue to recruit and incentivize the mentoring of a diverse pool of junior faculty. Second, we need to introduce Under-Represented Minority (URM) students to &quot;science in practice&quot; through our research labs as early as possible. Third, we need to provide the resources to allow URM students to succeed in STEM fields. Fourth and finally, we need to encourage students of all backgrounds to &quot;reach back&quot; and involve themselves in K-12 science education.
In the Fall of 2002, the Faculty for Undergraduate Neuroscience (FUN) began publication of its flagship journal, the Journal of Undergraduate Neuroscience Education (JUNE). For the past ten years, JUNE has been a major forum for the free exchange of information among undergraduate neuroscience educators. Numerous articles on laboratory exercises, media, pedagogy, curriculum, and issues pertinent to neuroscience educators have been published in JUNE during the past decade. Given the vast expertise in pedagogy amongst the FUN membership and within the undergraduate neuroscience education community at large, we strongly encourage all FUN members and JUNE readers to become actively involved in JUNE by contributing manuscripts and/or by offering your services as a reviewer.

Vasectomized mice are needed in the production of genetically-modified animals. The BVAAWF/FRAME/RSPCA/UFAW Joint Working Group on Refinement recommended that vasectomy should be performed via an incision in the scrotal sac, rather than via laparotomy, arguing that the former could be less painful due to minimal tissue trauma. This study was undertaken to assess the validity of this recommendation. Mice underwent vasectomy via either abdominal or scrotal approach surgery. Mice were filmed for 15 min presurgery and at one, 24 and 48 h postsurgery. Data were obtained using automated behaviour recognition software (HomeCageScan). Meloxicam was administered either alone or combined with acetaminophen prior to surgery. A third group received only saline subcutaneously. Postsurgery behaviour changes were compared between groups at each time point. Exploratory behaviours such as rearing, walking and sniffing were most greatly reduced at one hour following surgery whereas the duration of grooming increased. By 48 h these changes had largely subsided. Results indicated mice undergoing scrotal approach surgery fared better at one hour postsurgery, but the magnitude of this was relatively insignificant compared with the overall effects of surgery. If the observed behaviour changes resulted from pain, results suggested there was no significant advantage of scrotal versus abdominal approach vasectomy. These and other recently obtained data on the effects of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in mice suggest considerably larger doses of these or more potent analgesics, more precise monitoring of surgical outcomes, or a combination of these factors are needed to determine the extent of pain experienced by mice undergoing vasectomy.
Stress can influence a number of physiological processes including adult neurogenesis, metabolism, cardiovascular function, immune function, neurophysiological function, endocrine function and inflammatory processes following injury. In testing drugs which may be used to treat various diseases or injuries, reducing stress associated with chronic drug delivery to animal models should then be an imperative, which led us to design a reliable voluntary oral drug delivery method. Various drug combinations were tested versus vehicle controls in four different rat stocks or strains (Wistar, Fisher, Long Evans and Sprague Dawley) with our voluntary oral delivery system. Oral medications were placed into a store-bought sugar cookie dough ball (~4 g), thoroughly integrating the dry drugs with the dough. This method has worked consistently to deliver the medication (complete ingestion) in four different stocks or strains of rats, with reliabilities ranging from 98.6% to 100%. The percentage of rats in each stock or strain that have at any time during the study had incomplete ingestion of the drugs ranged from 1% in Sprague Dawley, approximately 4% in Wistar and Fisher, to approximately 16% in Long Evans. Both serum and brain samples were analysed for high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) detection of one of our administered drugs: 5 mg/kg fluoxetine. HPLC analysis shows that serum levels are detectable 2-4 h after ingestion, but not 24 h after ingestion. Brain samples however, showed detectable levels of both fluoxetine and norfluoxetine more than a week following ingestion of a single dose, with higher norfluoxetine levels seen following a month of daily administered drugs.

Characterizing the diffusion properties of cortical tissue is complicated by intersubject variability in the relative locations of gyri and sulci. Here we extend methods of measuring the average diffusion properties of gyral and sulcal structures after they have been aligned to a common template of cortical surface anatomy. Diffusion tensor image (DTI) data were gathered from 82 young subjects and co-registered with high-resolution T1 images that had been inflated and co-registered to a hemispherically unified spherical coordinate system based on FreeSurfer. We analyzed fractional anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD) and the novel quantity of cortical primary diffusion direction (cPDD) at five surfaces parallel to the white/gray junction, spanning approximately 5 mm from the pial surface into white matter. FA increased with increasing depth, whereas MD and cPDD were reduced. There were highly significant and reliable regional differences in FA, MD and cPDD as well as systematic differences between cortical lobes and between the two hemispheres. The influence of nearby cortical spinal fluid (CSF), local cortical curvature and thickness, and sulcal depth was also investigated. We found that FA correlated significantly with cortical curvature and sulcal depth, while MD was strongly influenced by nearby CSF. The measurement of FA, MD and cPDD near the cortical surface clarifies the organization of fiber projections to and from the cortex.
Inhomogeneities of the main magnetic field cause geometric distortion in echo-planar imaging, a method central to functional MRI. A number of correction methods have been proposed, most of which are based on the acquisition of a fieldmap providing the local offsets to the main magnetic field. Here, accelerated multiecho echo-planar imaging is used, with echo times short enough to enable the construction of a fieldmap of comparable quality from the data themselves. This way, each volume in a time series can be unwarped using a fieldmap obtained from that volume, avoiding volume-to-volume field-motion interactions that invalidate reference data in conventional approaches that use a single, static, fieldmap. The combination of accelerated acquisition with dynamic distortion correction yields volumes with very low distortion at repetition times similar to conventional echo-planar imaging. The method is applied to data acquired at 3 and 7 T and is shown to effectively correct image geometry. Furthermore, it is shown that dynamic distortion correction yields better temporal signal stability than correction using a static fieldmap in the presence of subject motion.
Despite its wide use, echo-planar imaging (EPI) suffers from geometric distortions due to off-resonance effects, i.e., strong magnetic field inhomogeneity and susceptibility. This article reports a novel method for correcting the distortions observed in EPI acquired at ultra-high-field such as 7 T. Point spread function (PSF) mapping methods have been proposed for correcting the distortions in EPI. The PSF shift map can be derived either along the nondistorted or the distorted coordinates. Along the nondistorted coordinates more information about compressed areas is present but it is prone to PSF-ghosting artifacts induced by large k-space shift in PSF encoding direction. In contrast, shift maps along the distorted coordinates contain more information in stretched areas and are more robust against PSF-ghosting. In ultra-high-field MRI, an EPI contains both compressed and stretched regions depending on the B0 field inhomogeneity and local susceptibility. In this study, we present a new geometric distortion correction scheme, which selectively applies the shift map with more information content. We propose a PSF-ghost elimination method to generate an artifact-free pixel shift map along nondistorted coordinates. The proposed method can correct the effects of the local magnetic field inhomogeneity induced by the susceptibility effects along with the PSF-ghost artifact cancellation. We have experimentally demonstrated the advantages of the proposed method in EPI data acquisitions in phantom and human brain using 7-T MRI.
A major function of the human brain is to mediate interactions with other people. Until recently, studying social interactions as they occur within the brain was not possible due to the lack of measurable methods to observe two interacting minds simultaneously. We have developed a novel MRI dual-head volume coil pair that can scan two subjects' brains simultaneously while the subjects are socially interacting in one MRI scanner. The feasibility of using this coil for dyadic functional MRI (fMRI) study has been successfully demonstrated for the first time. Meanwhile, an innovative robust scheme for decoupling two circular-polarized coils (not surface coils) is introduced in theory and validated in practice in the coil technology development.
Standards are needed to control the quality of the lungs from nonheart-beating donors as potential grafts. This was here assessed using the metabolomics 1H high-resolution magic angle spinning NMR spectroscopy. Selective perfusion of the porcine bilung block was set up 30 min after cardiac arrest with cold Perfadex. Lung alterations were analyzed at 3, 6, and 8 h of cold ischemia as compared to baseline and to nonperfused lung. Metabolomics analysis of lung biopsies allowed identification of 35 metabolites. Levels of the majority of the metabolites increased over time at 4C without perfusion, indicating cellular degradation, whereas levels of glutathione decreased. When lung was perfused at 4C, levels of the majority of the metabolites remained stable, including levels of glutathione. Levels of uracil by contrast showed a reverse profile, as its signal increased over time in the absence of perfusion while being totally absent in perfused samples. Our results showed glutathione and uracil as potential biomarkers for the quality of the lung. The metabolomics 1H high-resolution magic angle spinning NMR spectroscopy can be efficiently applied for the assessment of the quality of the lung as an original technique characterized by a rapid assessment of intact biopsy samples without extraction and can be implemented in hospital environment.
Telemetric EEG in the rat's brain has been used for experiments which tests the effects of an antiepileptic compound on it's antiseizures activity. A simple classification correlating epileptiform discharge and Racine's behavioral activity is discussed.
Knowledge of the structure, genetics, circuits, and physiological properties of the mammalian brain in both normal and pathological states is ever increasing as research labs worldwide probe the various aspects of brain function. Until recently, however, comprehensive cataloging of gene expression across the central nervous system has been lacking. The Allen Institute for Brain Science, as part of its mission to propel neuroscience research, has completed several large gene-mapping projects in mouse, nonhuman primate, and human brain, producing informative online public resources and tools. Here we present the Allen Mouse Brain Atlas, covering ~20,000 genes throughout the adult mouse brain; the Allen Developing Mouse Brain Atlas, detailing expression of approximately 2,000 important developmental genes across seven embryonic and postnatal stages of brain growth; and the Allen Spinal Cord Atlas, revealing expression for ~20,000 genes in the adult and neonatal mouse spinal cords. Integrated data-mining tools, including reference atlases, informatics analyses, and 3-D viewers, are described. For these massive-scale projects, high-throughput industrial techniques were developed to standardize and reliably repeat experimental goals. To verify consistency and accuracy, a detailed analysis of the 1,000 most viewed genes for the adult mouse brain (according to website page views) was performed by comparing our data with peer-reviewed literature and other databases. We show that our data are highly consistent with independent sources and provide a comprehensive compendium of information and tools used by thousands of researchers each month. All data and tools are freely available via the Allen Brain Atlas portal (www.brain-map.org).
The starting point of this paper is the analysis of the reference problem in intra-cerebral electroencephalographic (iEEG) recordings. It is well accepted that both surface and depth EEG signals are always recorded with respect to some unknown time-varying signal called reference. This article discusses different methods for determining and reducing the influence of the reference signal for the iEEG signals. In particular, we derive optimal approaches for the estimation of the reference signal in iEEG recording setups and demonstrate their relation to the well-known minimum power/variance distortionless response approaches derived for general array and antenna signal processing applications. We show that the proposed approaches achieve optimal performance in terms of estimation error and that they outperform other reference identification methods proposed in the literature. The developed algorithms are illustrated on simulated examples and on real iEEG signals.
Normal tissue toxicity resulting from both disease and treatment is an adverse side effect in the management of patients with central nervous system malignancies. We tested the hypothesis that despite these improvements, certain tumors place patients at risk for neurocognitive, neuroendocrine, and neurosensory late effects. Defining patient groups at risk for these effects could allow for development of preventive strategies. Fifty patients with primary brain tumors underwent radiation planning with magnetic resonance imaging scan and computed tomography datasets. Organs at risk (OAR) responsible for neurocognitive, neuroendocrine, and neurosensory function were defined. Inverse-planned intensity-modulated radiation therapy was optimized with priority given to target coverage while penalties were assigned to exceeding normal tissue tolerances. Tumor laterality, location, and histology were compared with OAR doses, and analysis of variance was performed to determine the significance of any observed correlation. The ipsilateral hippocampus exceeded dose limits in frontal (74%), temporal (94%), and parietal (100%) lobe tumor locations. The contralateral hippocampus was at risk in the following tumor locations: frontal (53%), temporal (83%), or parietal (50%) lobe. Patients with high-grade glioma were at risk for ipsilateral (88%) and contralateral (73%) hippocampal damage (P &lt;0.05 compared with other histologies). The pituitary gland and hypothalamus exceeded dose tolerances in patients with pituitary tumors (both 100%) and high-grade gliomas (50% and 75%, P &lt;0.05 compared with other histologies), respectively. Despite application of modern radiation therapy, certain tumor locations and histologies continue to place patients at risk for morbidity. Patients with high-grade gliomas or tumors located in the frontal, temporal, or parietal lobes are at risk for neurocognitive decline, likely because of larger target volumes and higher radiation doses. Data from this study may help to stratify patients at risk for late effects to develop strategies to reduce frequency and severity of radiation sequelae.
Motor unit number index (MUNIX) is a recently developed novel neurophysiological technique providing an index proportional to the number of motor units in a muscle. The MUNIX is derived from maximum M wave and voluntary surface electromyogram (EMG) recordings. The objective of this study was to address a practical question for computing MUNIX in the first dorsal interosseous (FDI), a multifunctional muscle that generates torque about the second metacarpophalangeal joint, i.e., how will different lines of muscle activation influence its MUNIX estimates? To address this question, the MUNIX technique was applied in the FDI muscle of 15 neurologically intact subjects, using surface EMG signals from index finger abduction and flexion, respectively, while the maximum M wave remained the same. Across all subjects, the average MUNIX value of the FDI muscle was 228  45 for index finger abduction, slightly smaller than the MUNIX estimate of 251  56 for index finger flexion. Different FDI muscle activation patterns resulted in an approximately 10% difference in MUNIX estimates. The findings from this study suggest that appropriate definition of voluntary activation of the FDI muscle should be kept to ensure consistency in measurements and avoid source of error. The current study is limited by only assessing neurologically intact muscles. It is important to perform a similar analysis for patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), given that ALS is the primary intention of the MUNIX method as a potential follow-up measurement for motor unit loss.
Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) enables non-invasive investigation and characterization of the white matter but suffers from a relatively poor spatial resolution. Increasing the spatial resolution in DWI is challenging with a single-shot EPI acquisition due to the decreased signal-to-noise ratio and T2() relaxation effect amplified with increased echo time. In this work we propose a super-resolution reconstruction (SRR) technique based on the acquisition of multiple anisotropic orthogonal DWI scans. DWI scans acquired in different planes are not typically closely aligned due to the geometric distortion introduced by magnetic susceptibility differences in each phase-encoding direction. We compensate each scan for geometric distortion by acquisition of a dual echo gradient echo field map, providing an estimate of the field inhomogeneity. We address the problem of patient motion by aligning the volumes in both space and q-space. The SRR is formulated as a maximum a posteriori problem. It relies on a volume acquisition model which describes how the acquired scans are observations of an unknown high-resolution image which we aim to recover. Our model enables the introduction of image priors that exploit spatial homogeneity and enables regularized solutions. We detail our SRR optimization procedure and report experiments including numerical simulations, synthetic SRR and real world SRR. In particular, we demonstrate that combining distortion compensation and SRR provides better results than acquisition of a single isotropic scan for the same acquisition duration time. Importantly, SRR enables DWI with resolution beyond the scanner hardware limitations. This work provides the first evidence that SRR, which employs conventional single shot EPI techniques, enables resolution enhancement in DWI, and may dramatically impact the role of DWI in both neuroscience and clinical applications.
The fungal cell wall polymer -(1,3)-D-glucan is synthesized by the enzyme -(1,3)- D-glucan synthase that is a complex composed of at least two proteins, Rho1p and Fks1p. Here, we report the nucleotide sequence of a single FKS gene and of the regulatory unit, RHO1 from the dematiaceous pathogenic fungus Alternaria infectoria. The predicted AiFks and AiRho share, respectively, 93% and 100% identity with that of Drechslera tritici-repentis. We also report that the sensitivity to caspofungin of eight different A. infectoria clinical strains is similar, with a MIC &gt;32 g/ml and a MEC of 1 g/ml, except for one strain which had a MEC of 1.4 g/ml. This same strain exhibited one substitution at the hot spot 2, S1405A, compatible with less susceptible phenotypes, with the other seven strains having no mutations in either hot spot 1 or 2. The relative quantification of the expression of AiFKS and of AiRHO demonstrated a decrease in response to an exposure to caspofungin at 0.5 g/ml.


Herein we discuss the effects of hormones on reproduction, but with a focus on the ripples that emanate from the main effects. That is, the role of hormones in reproductive events is both well-known and well accepted; less studied and understood are effects that appear to be ancillary to the primary objectives of the hormonal effects, which support, complement and extend their primary effects. We present evidence for how the hormonal stimulation of pregnancy constructs the maternal brain; makes it more efficient; enhances cognition; regulates stress responsiveness; modifies sensory systems (we discuss mainly olfaction); neurogenesis; and learning. Thus, steroid and other hormones and neuropeptides restructure the nervous system, particularly of females, to produce and regulate maternal behavior as well as behaviors and physiological systems that contribute to and support what is arguably the primary function of the hormones: survival and effective nurturance of the female's metabolic and genetic investment.
Aquaporins have been assumed to be selective for water alone, and aquaglyceroporins are accepted as carrying water and small uncharged solutes including glycerol. This review presents an expanded view of aquaporins as channels with more complex mechanisms of regulation and diverse repertoires of substrate permeabilities than were originally appreciated in the early establishment of the field. The role of aquaporins as dual water and gated ion channels is likely to have physiological and potentially translational relevance, and can be evaluated with newly developed molecular and pharmacological tools. Ion channel activity has been shown for Aquaporins -0, -1, and -6, Drosphila Big Brain, and plant Nodulin-26. Although the concept of ion channel function in aquaporins remains controversial, research advances are beginning to define not only the ion channel function but also the detailed molecular mechanisms that govern and mediate the multifunctional capabilities. With regard to physiological relevance, the adaptive benefit of expression of ion channel activity in aquaporins, implied by amino acid sequence conservation of the ion channel gating domains, suggests they provide more than water or glycerol and solute transport. Dual ion and water channels are of interest for understanding the modulation of transmembrane fluid gradients, volume regulation, and possible signal transduction in tissues expressing classes of aquaporins that have the dual function capability. Other aquaporin classes might be found in future work to have ion channel activities, pending identification of the possible signaling pathways that could govern activation.
During the development of the vertebrate neuromuscular junction (NMJ), motor axon tips stop growing after contacting muscle and transform into presynaptic terminals that secrete the neurotransmitter acetylcholine and activate postsynaptic ACh receptors (AChRs) to trigger muscle contraction. The neuron-intrinsic signaling that retards axonal growth to facilitate stable nerve-muscle interaction and synaptogenesis is poorly understood. In this paper, we report a novel function of presynaptic signaling by phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN) in mediating a growth-to-synaptogenesis transition in neurons. In Xenopus nerve-muscle cocultures, axonal growth speed was halved after contact with muscle, when compared with before contact, but when cultures were exposed to the PTEN blocker bisperoxo (1,10-phenanthroline) oxovanadate, axons touching muscle grew ~50% faster than their counterparts in control cultures. Suppression of neuronal PTEN expression using morpholinos or the forced expression of catalytically inactive PTEN in neurons also resulted in faster than normal axonal advance after contact with muscle cells. Significantly, interference with PTEN by each of these methods also led to reduced AChR clustering at innervation sites in muscle, indicating that disruption of neuronal PTEN signaling inhibited NMJ assembly. We thus propose that PTEN-dependent slowing of axonal growth enables the establishment of stable nerve-muscle contacts that develop into NMJs.
The Drosophila melanogaster orthologue of the c-Cbl proto-oncogene acts to downregulate signalling from receptor tyrosine kinases by enhancing endocytosis of activated receptors. Expression of an analogue of the C-terminally truncated v-Cbl oncogene, Dv-cbl, in the developing Drosophila eye conversely leads to excess signalling and disruption to the well-ordered adult compound eye. Co-expression of activated Ras with Dv-cbl leads to a severe disruption of eye development. We have used a transposon-based inducible expression system to screen for molecules that can suppress the Dv-cbl phenotype and have identified an allele that upregulates the A-kinase anchoring protein, Akap200. Overexpression of Akap200 not only suppresses the phenotype caused by Dv-cbl expression, but also the severe disruption to eye development caused by the combined expression of Dv-cbl and activated Ras. Akap200 is also endogenously expressed in the developing Drosophila eye at a level that modulates the effects of excessive signalling caused by expression of Dv-cbl.

Increased glucocorticoid secretion is a common response to stress and has been implicated as a mediator of reproductive suppression upon the pituitary gland. We utilized complementary in vitro and in vivo approaches in the mouse to investigate the role of glucocorticoids as a stress-induced intermediate capable of gonadotrope suppression. Repeated daily restraint stress lengthened the ovulatory cycle of female mice and acutely reduced GnRH-induced LH secretion and synthesis of LH -subunit (LH) mRNA, coincident with increased circulating glucocorticoids. Administration of a stress level of glucocorticoid, in the absence of stress, blunted LH secretion in ovariectomized female mice, demonstrating direct impairment of reproductive function by glucocorticoids. Supporting a pituitary action, glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is expressed in mouse gonadotropes and treatment with glucocorticoids reduces GnRH-induced LH expression in immortalized mouse gonadotrope cells. Analyses revealed that glucocorticoid repression localizes to a region of the LH proximal promoter, which contains early growth response factor 1 (Egr1) and steroidogenic factor 1 sites critical for GnRH induction. GR is recruited to this promoter region in the presence of GnRH, but not by dexamethasone alone, confirming the necessity of the GnRH response for GR repression. In lieu of GnRH, Egr1 induction is sufficient for glucocorticoid repression of LH expression, which occurs via GR acting in a DNA- and dimerization-independent manner. Collectively, these results expose the gonadotrope as an important neuroendocrine site impaired during stress, by revealing a molecular mechanism involving Egr1 as a critical integrator of complex formation on the LH promoter during GnRH induction and GR repression.
The mature brain is a highly dynamic organ that constantly changes its organization by destroying and forming new connections. Collectively, these changes are referred to as brain plasticity and are associated with functional changes, such as memory, addiction, and recovery of function after brain damage. Neuronal plasticity is sustained by the fine regulation of protein synthesis and organelle biogenesis and their degradation to ensure efficient turnover. Thus, autophagy, as quality control mechanism of proteins and organelles in neurons, is essential to their physiology and pathology. Here, we review recent several findings proving that defects in autophagy affect neuronal function and impair functional recovery after brain insults, contributing to neurodegeneration, in chronic and acute neurological disorders. Thus, an understanding of the molecular mechanisms by which the autophagy machinery is finely regulated might accelerate the development of therapeutic interventions in many neurological disorders for which no cure is available.
Dopamine and glutamate systems are both involved in cognitive, behavioral, and motor processes. Dysfunction of dopamine-glutamate interplay has been suggested in several psychotic diseases, above all in schizophrenia, for which there exists a need for novel medications. Intracellular calcium-dependent transduction pathways are key determinants of dopamine-glutamate interactions, which take place mainly, albeit not exclusively, in the postsynaptic density (PSD), a highly specialized postsynaptic ultrastructure. Stimulation of dopamine and glutamate receptors modulates the gene expression and the function of specific PSD proteins, the &quot;scaffolding&quot; proteins (Homer, Shank, and PSD95), belonging to a complex Ca(2+)-regulated network that integrates and converges dopamine and glutamate signaling to appropriate nuclear targets. Dysfunction of scaffolding proteins leads to severe impairment of Ca(2+)-dependent signaling, which may underlie the dopamine-glutamate aberrations putatively implicated in the pathogenesis of psychotic disorders. Antipsychotic therapy has been demonstrated to directly and indirectly affect the neuronal Ca(2+)-dependent pathways through the modulation of PSD scaffolding proteins, such as Homer, therefore influencing both dopaminergic and glutamatergic functions and enforcing Ca(2+)-mediated long-term synaptic changes. In this review, we will discuss the role of PSD scaffolding proteins in routing Ca(2+)-dependent signals to the nucleus. In particular, we will address the implication of PSD scaffolding proteins in the intracellular connections between dopamine and glutamate pathways, which involve both Ca(2+)-dependent and Ca(2+)-independent mechanisms. Finally, we will discuss how new strategies for the treatment of psychosis aim at developing antipsychotics that may impact both glutamate and dopamine signaling, and what should be the possible role of PSD scaffolding proteins.
Glucocorticoids affect learning and memory but the cellular mechanisms involved are poorly understood. The present studies tested if the stress-responsive glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is present and regulated within dendritic spines, and influences local signaling to the actin cytoskeleton. In hippocampal field CA1, 13 % of synapses contained GR-immunoreactivity. Three-dimensional reconstructions of CA1 dendrites showed that GR aggregates are present in both spine heads and necks. Consonant with evidence that GR mRNA associates with the translation regulator Fragile X Mental Retardation Protein (FMRP), spine GR levels were rapidly increased by group 1 mGluR activation and reduced in mice lacking FMRP. Treatment of cultured hippocampal slices with the GR agonist dexamethasone rapidly (15-30 min) increased total levels of phosphorylated (p) Cofilin and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2, proteins that regulate actin polymerization and stability. Dexamethasone treatment of adult hippocampal slices also increased numbers of PSD95+ spines containing pERK1/2, but reduced numbers of pCofilin-immunoreactive spines. Dexamethasone-induced increases in synaptic pERK1/2 were blocked by the GR antagonist RU-486. These results demonstrate that GRs are present in hippocampal spines where they mediate acute glucocorticoid effects on local spine signaling. Through effects on these actin regulatory pathways, GRs are positioned to exert acute effects on synaptic plasticity.
Kalirin-7 (Kal7), the major kalirin isoform in adult brain, plays a key role in the formation of dendritic spines in hippocampal/cortical neurons. Its role in the GABAergic medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and striatum, the areas known to play a key role in the common reward pathway, is not as well understood. Although Kal7 expression in mouse NAc increased in response to cocaine, MSN dendritic spine density did not differ from that for the wild type in Kal7-null mice. Unlike wild-type mice, Kal7-null mice did not respond to cocaine with an increase in MSN dendritic spine density. To explore further the role of Kal7 in cocaine-induced alterations in MSN morphology, we turned to the rat. Based on immunostaining, both Kal7 and Kal12 are expressed at moderate levels in the MSNs of the NAc and striatum. Expression of Kal7 and Kal12 in MSNs of both areas increases after repeated cocaine treatments. Overexpression of Kal7 in cultured MSN neurons increases dendritic spine density, as observed in rats after long-term cocaine administration. Reducing endogenous expression of all major kalirin isoforms in cultured MSN neurons causes a decrease in total dendritic length and dendritic spine density. These data suggest that kalirin is essential for maintaining spine density in NAc MSNs under normal conditions and that Kal7 is an obligatory intermediate in the response of MSNs to repeated exposure to cocaine.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults is associated with impaired sleep, and it has been postulated that this impairment may contribute to the psychopathology of this common condition. One key driver of sleep/wake cycles is the circadian system, which at the molecular level consists of a series of transcriptional feedback loops of clock genes, which in turn produce endocrine, physiological and behavioural outputs with a near 24 h periodicity. We set out to examine circadian rhythms at the behavioural, endocrine and molecular levels in ADHD. Adults with ADHD as well as age- and sex-matched controls were recruited. Circadian rhythms were measured by means of actigraphy for the determination of gross motor patterns, by self-sampling of oral mucosa for assessment of rhythmic expression of the clock genes BMAL1 and PER2, and by estimation of salivary cortisol and melatonin levels. Actigraphic analysis revealed significant diurnal and nocturnal hyperactivity in the ADHD group, as well as a significant shorter period of best fit for the locomotor circadian rhythm in ADHD. BMAL1 and PER2 showed circadian rhythmicity in controls with this being lost in the ADHD group. Cortisol rhythms were significantly phase delayed in the ADHD group. These findings indicate that adult ADHD is accompanied by significant changes in the circadian system, which in turn may lead to decreased sleep duration and quality in the condition. Further, modulation of circadian rhythms may represent a novel therapeutic avenue in the management of ADHD.
Schizophrenia is a highly heritable disorder with a polygenic pattern of inheritance and a population prevalence of ~1%. Previous studies have implicated synaptic dysfunction in schizophrenia. We tested the accumulated association of genetic variants in expert-curated synaptic gene groups with schizophrenia in 4673 cases and 4965 healthy controls, using functional gene group analysis. Identifying groups of genes with similar cellular function rather than genes in isolation may have clinical implications for finding additional drug targets. We found that a group of 1026 synaptic genes was significantly associated with the risk of schizophrenia (P=7.6  10(-11)) and more strongly associated than 100 randomly drawn, matched control groups of genetic variants (P&lt;0.01). Subsequent analysis of synaptic subgroups suggested that the strongest association signals are derived from three synaptic gene groups: intracellular signal transduction (P=2.0  10(-4)), excitability (P=9.0  10(-4)) and cell adhesion and trans-synaptic signaling (P=2.4  10(-3)). These results are consistent with a role of synaptic dysfunction in schizophrenia and imply that impaired intracellular signal transduction in synapses, synaptic excitability and cell adhesion and trans-synaptic signaling play a role in the pathology of schizophrenia.
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether application of bipolar galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) would influence the common modulation of motor unit discharge rate in bilateral soleus muscles during quiet standing. Soleus motor unit activity was recorded with fine wire electrodes in each leg. Subjects stood, with eyes closed, on two adjacent force platforms to record postural sway with the head facing straight ahead, turned to right, or turned left. Subjects also swayed voluntarily without GVS to the same position as evoked during the GVS. There was no difference in the common drive to bilateral soleus motoneurons during quiet standing and voluntary sway tasks. Common drive was significantly lower during right cathode GVS with the head straight or turned to the right. These results demonstrate that manipulation of vestibular afferent input influences the common modulation of bilateral soleus motor unit pairs during quiet standing.
Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) often develop a spectrum of cognitive symptoms that can evolve into dementia. Dopamine (DA) replacement medications, though improving motor symptoms, can exert both positive and negative effects on cognitive ability, depending on the severity of the disease and the specific skill being tested. By considering the behavioral and clinical aspects of disease- and treatment-mediated changes in cognition alongside the pathophysiology of PD, an understanding of the factors that govern the heterogeneous expression of cognitive impairment in PD is beginning to emerge. Here, we review the neuroimaging studies revealing the neural correlates of cognitive changes after DA loss and DA replacement as well as those that may accompany the conversion from milder stages of cognitive impairment to frank dementia.
The facial phenotype of psychogenic movement disorders has not been fully characterized. Seven tertiary-referral movement disorders centers using a standardized data collection on a computerized database performed a retrospective chart review of psychogenic movement disorders involving the face. Patients with organic forms of facial dystonia or any medical or neurological disorder known to affect facial muscles were excluded. Sixty-one patients fulfilled the inclusion criteria for psychogenic facial movement disorders (91.8% females; age: 37.0  11.3 years). Phasic or tonic muscular spasms resembling dystonia were documented in all patients most commonly involving the lips (60.7%), followed by eyelids (50.8%), perinasal region (16.4%), and forehead (9.8%). The most common pattern consisted of tonic, sustained, lateral, and/or downward protrusion of one side of the lower lip with ipsilateral jaw deviation (84.3%). Ipsi- or contralateral blepharospasm and excessive platysma contraction occurred in isolation or combined with fixed lip dystonia (60.7%). Spasms were reported as painful in 24.6% of cases. Symptom onset was abrupt in most cases (80.3%), with at least 1 precipitating psychological stress or trauma identified in 57.4%. Associated body regions involved included upper limbs (29.5%), neck (16.4%), lower limbs (16.4%), and trunk (4.9%). There were fluctuations in severity and spontaneous exacerbations and remissions (60%). Prevalent comorbidities included depression (38.0%) and tension headache (26.4%). Fixed jaw and/or lip deviation is a characteristic pattern of psychogenic facial movement disorders, occurring in isolation or in combination with other psychogenic movement disorders or other psychogenic features.





Integrins in focal adhesions (FAs) mediate adhesion and force transmission to extracellular matrices essential for cell motility, proliferation and differentiation. Different fibronectin-binding integrins, simultaneously present in FAs, perform distinct functions. Yet, how integrin dynamics control biochemical and biomechanical processes in FAs is still elusive. Using single-protein tracking and super-resolution imaging we revealed the dynamic nano-organizations of integrins and talin inside FAs. Integrins reside in FAs through free-diffusion and immobilization cycles. Integrin activation promotes immobilization, stabilized in FAs by simultaneous connection to fibronectin and actin-binding proteins. Talin is recruited in FAs directly from the cytosol without membrane free-diffusion, restricting integrin immobilization to FAs. Immobilized 3-integrins are enriched and stationary within FAs, whereas immobilized 1-integrins are less enriched and exhibit rearward movements. Talin is enriched and mainly stationary, but also exhibited rearward movements in FAs, consistent with stable connections with both -integrins. Thus, differential transmission of actin motion to fibronectin occurs through specific integrins within FAs.
In zebrafish, retinal injury stimulates Mller glia (MG) reprograming, allowing them to generate multipotent progenitors that replace damaged cells and restore vision. Recent studies suggest that transcriptional repression may underlie these events. To identify transcriptional repressors, we compared the transcriptomes of MG and MG-derived progenitors and identified insm1a, a repressor exhibiting a biphasic pattern of expression that is essential for retina regeneration. Insm1a was found to suppress ascl1a and its own expression, and link injury-dependent ascl1a induction with the suppression of the Wnt inhibitor dickkopf (dkk), which is necessary for MG dedifferentiation. We also found that Insm1a was responsible for sculpting the zone of injury-responsive MG by suppressing hb-egf(a) expression. Finally, we provide evidence that Insm1a stimulates progenitor cell-cycle exit by suppressing a genetic program driving progenitor proliferation. Our studies identify Insm1a as a key regulator of retina regeneration and provide a mechanistic understanding of how it contributes to multiple phases of this process.
A primary function of the brain is the storage and retrieval of information. Except for working memory, where extracellular recordings have shown persistent discharges during delay-response tasks, it has been difficult to link memories with changes in individual neurons or specific synaptic connections. We found that transient stimuli are reliably encoded in the ongoing activity of brain tissue in vitro. Patterns of synaptic input onto dentate hilar neurons predicted which of four pathways were stimulated with an accuracy of 76% and performed significantly better than chance for &gt;15 s. Dentate gyrus neurons were also able to accurately encode temporal sequences using population representations that were robust to variation in sequence interval. These results demonstrate direct neural encoding of temporal sequences in the spontaneous activity of brain tissue and suggest a local circuit mechanism that may contribute to diverse forms of short-term memory.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are critical to synaptogenesis, neural circuitry and higher cognitive functions. A hallmark feature of NMDARs is an early postnatal developmental switch from those containing primarily GluN2B to primarily GluN2A subunits. Although the switch in phenotype has been an area of intense interest for two decades, the mechanisms that trigger it and the link between experience and the switch are unclear. Here we show a new role for the transcriptional repressor REST in the developmental switch of synaptic NMDARs. REST is activated at a critical window of time and acts via epigenetic remodeling to repress Grin2b expression and alter NMDAR properties at rat hippocampal synapses. Knockdown of REST in vivo prevented the decline in GluN2B and developmental switch in NMDARs. Maternal deprivation impaired REST activation and acquisition of the mature NMDAR phenotype. Thus, REST is essential for experience-dependent fine-tuning of genes involved in synaptic plasticity.
Alcoholism is frequently co-morbid with post-traumatic stress disorder, but it is unclear how alcohol affects the neural circuits mediating recovery from trauma. We found that chronic intermittent ethanol (CIE) impaired fear extinction and remodeled the dendritic arbor of medial prefrontal cortical (mPFC) neurons in mice. CIE impaired extinction encoding by infralimbic mPFC neurons in vivo and functionally downregulated burst-mediating NMDA GluN1 receptors. These findings suggest that alcohol may increase risk for trauma-related anxiety disorders by disrupting mPFC-mediated extinction of fear.
Neurons in the mammalian brain receive thousands of synaptic inputs on their dendrites. In many types of neurons, such as cortical pyramidal neurons, excitatory synapses are formed on fine dendritic protrusions called spines. Usually, an individual spine forms a single synaptic contact with an afferent axon. In this protocol, we describe a recently established experimental procedure for measuring intracellular calcium signals from dendritic spines in cortical neurons in vivo by using a combination of two-photon microscopy and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. We have used mice as an experimental model system, but the protocol may be readily adapted to other species. This method involves data acquisition at high frame rates and low-excitation laser power, and is termed low-power temporal oversampling (LOTOS). Because of its high sensitivity of fluorescence detection and reduced phototoxicity, LOTOS allows for prolonged and stable calcium imaging in vivo. Key aspects of the protocol, which can be completed in 5-6 h, include the use of a variant of high-speed two-photon imaging, refined surgery procedures and optimized tissue stabilization.
Axons of various hippocampal neurons are myelinated mainly postnatally, which is important for the proper function of neural circuits. Demyelination in the hippocampus has been observed in patients with multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease or temporal lobe epilepsy. However, very little is known about the mechanisms and exact functions of the interaction between the myelin-making oligodendrocytes and the axons within the hippocampus. This is mainly attributable to the lack of a system suitable for molecular studies. We recently established a new myelin coculture from embryonic day (E) 18 rat embryos consisting of hippocampal neurons and oligodendrocytes, with which we identified a novel intra-axonal signaling pathway regulating the juxtaparanodal clustering of Kv1.2 channels. Here we describe the detailed protocol for this new coculture. It takes about 5 weeks to set up and use the system. This coculture is particularly useful for studying myelin-mediated regulation of ion channel trafficking and for understanding how neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission are regulated by myelination.
Spatial neglect increases hospital morbidity and costs in around 50% of the 795,000 people per year in the USA who survive stroke, and an urgent need exists to reduce the care burden of this condition. However, effective acute treatment for neglect has been elusive. In this article, we review 48 studies of a treatment of intense neuroscience interest: prism adaptation training. Due to its effects on spatial motor 'aiming', prism adaptation training may act to reduce neglect-related disability. However, research failed, first, to suggest methods to identify the 50-75% of patients who respond to treatment; second, to measure short-term and long-term outcomes in both mechanism-specific and functionally valid ways; third, to confirm treatment utility during the critical first 8 weeks poststroke; and last, to base treatment protocols on systematic dose-response data. Thus, considerable investment in prism adaptation research has not yet touched the fundamentals needed for clinical implementation. We suggest improved standards and better spatial motor models for further research, so as to clarify when, how and for whom prism adaptation should be applied.

The discrimination of complex auditory stimuli relies on the spatiotemporal structure of spike patterns arriving in the cortex. While recordings from auditory areas reveal that many neurons are highly selective to specific spatiotemporal stimuli, the mechanisms underlying this selectivity are unknown. Using computer simulations, we show that selectivity can emerge in neurons in an entirely unsupervised manner. The model is based on recurrently connected spiking neurons and synapses that exhibit short-term synaptic plasticity. During a developmental stage, spoken digits were presented to the network; the only type of long-term plasticity present was a form of homeostatic synaptic plasticity. From an initially unresponsive state, training generated a high percentage of neurons that responded selectively to individual digits. Furthermore, units within the network exhibited a cardinal feature of vocalization-sensitive neurons in vivo: differential responses between forward and reverse stimulus presentations. Direction selectivity deteriorated significantly, however, if short-term synaptic plasticity was removed. These results establish that a simple form of homeostatic plasticity is capable of guiding recurrent networks into regimes in which complex stimuli can be discriminated. In addition, one computational function of short-term synaptic plasticity may be to provide an inherent temporal asymmetry, thus contributing to the characteristic forward-reverse selectivity.
The moving bar experiment is a classic paradigm for characterizing the receptive field (RF) properties of neurons in primary visual cortex (V1). Current approaches for analyzing neural spiking activity recorded from these experiments do not take into account the point-process nature of these data and the circular geometry of the stimulus presentation. We present a novel analysis approach to mapping V1 receptive fields that combines point-process generalized linear models (PPGLM) with tomographic reconstruction computed by filtered-back projection. We use the method to map the RF sizes and orientations of 251 V1 neurons recorded from two macaque monkeys during a moving bar experiment. Our cross-validated goodness-of-fit analyses show that the PPGLM provides a more accurate characterization of spike train data than analyses based on rate functions computed by the methods of spike-triggered averages or first-order Wiener-Volterra kernel. Our analysis leads to a new definition of RF size as the spatial area over which the spiking activity is significantly greater than baseline activity. Our approach yields larger RF sizes and sharper orientation tuning estimates. The tomographic reconstruction paradigm further suggests an efficient approach to choosing the number of directions and the number of trials per direction in designing moving bar experiments. Our results demonstrate that standard tomographic principles for image reconstruction can be adapted to characterize V1 RFs and that two fundamental properties, size and orientation, may be substantially different from what is currently reported.
In low-level sensory systems, it is still unclear how the noisy information collected locally by neurons may give rise to a coherent global percept. This is well demonstrated for the detection of motion in the aperture problem: as luminance of an elongated line is symmetrical along its axis, tangential velocity is ambiguous when measured locally. Here, we develop the hypothesis that motion-based predictive coding is sufficient to infer global motion. Our implementation is based on a context-dependent diffusion of a probabilistic representation of motion. We observe in simulations a progressive solution to the aperture problem similar to physiology and behavior. We demonstrate that this solution is the result of two underlying mechanisms. First, we demonstrate the formation of a tracking behavior favoring temporally coherent features independent of their texture. Second, we observe that incoherent features are explained away, while coherent information diffuses progressively to the global scale. Most previous models included ad hoc mechanisms such as end-stopped cells or a selection layer to track specific luminance-based features as necessary conditions to solve the aperture problem. Here, we have proved that motion-based predictive coding, as it is implemented in this functional model, is sufficient to solve the aperture problem. This solution may give insights into the role of prediction underlying a large class of sensory computations.
Cerebellar mutism syndrome (CMS) is an important medical challenge in the management of pediatric posterior fossa brain tumors, because it occurs in a subset of children following tumor resection. A definitive clinical profile and neuroanatomical substrate associated with CMS remains unclear. We investigated the relationship between presurgical and clinical variables and the incidence of CMS, along with diffusion tensor imaging, to characterize the integrity of cerebello-thalamo-cerebral white matter pathways. Seventeen children with posterior fossa tumors and CMS, 34 children with posterior fossa tumors without CMS, and 28 healthy children were enrolled in this study. Bilateral cerebello-thalamo-cerebral pathways were delineated and segmented into anatomical regions. Mean integrity measures for each region were compared among children with CMS, children without CMS, and healthy children. Left-handedness, medulloblastoma histology, and larger tumor size distinguished between patients with CMS and patients without CMS (P &lt; .04). Right cerebellar white matter within the cerebello-thalamo-cerebral pathway was compromised in children with CMS relative to children without CMS and healthy children (P &lt; .02). We provide a potential schema for CMS risk among children treated for posterior fossa tumors. Left-handed children treated for medulloblastoma may be the most at risk for CMS, and unilateral, localized damage within the cerebello-thalamo-cerebral pathway at the level of the right cerebellum is implicated in the presentation of CMS. This disruption in communication between the right cerebellum and left frontal cortex may contribute to speech-language problems observed in children with CMS. Our findings may be relevant for surgical planning and speech-language therapy to mitigate symptoms of CMS.
A hexanucleotide repeat expansion (RE) in C9ORF72 gene was recently reported as the main cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and cases with frontotemporal dementia. We screened C9ORF72 in a large cohort of 259 familial ALS, 1275 sporadic ALS, and 862 control individuals of Italian descent. We found RE in 23.9% familial ALS, 5.1% sporadic ALS, and 0.2% controls. Two cases carried the RE together with mutations in other ALS-associated genes. The phenotype of RE carriers was characterized by bulbar-onset, shorter survival, and association with cognitive and behavioral impairment. Extrapyramidal and cerebellar signs were also observed in few patients. Genotype data revealed that 95% of RE carriers shared a restricted 10-single nucleotide polymorphism haplotype within the previously reported 20-single nucleotide polymorphism risk haplotype, detectable in only 27% of nonexpanded ALS cases and in 28% of controls, suggesting a common founder with cohorts of North European ancestry. Although C9ORF72 RE segregates with disease, the identification of RE both in controls and in patients carrying additional pathogenic mutations suggests that penetrance and phenotypic expression of C9ORF72 RE may depend on additional genetic risk factors.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) shows clinical and pathological overlap with frontotemporal dementia that includes the presence of hallmark ubiquitinated inclusions in affected neurons. Mutations in UBQLN2, which encodes ubiquilin 2, were recently identified in X-linked juvenile and adult-onset ALS and ALS/dementia. As part of an established exome sequencing program to identify disease genes in familial ALS, we identified a novel missense UBQLN2 mutation (c.1460C&gt;T, p.T487I) in 2 apparently unrelated multigenerational ALS families with no evidence of frontotemporal dementia. This mutation segregated with the disease and was absent in 820 healthy controls and all public single nucleotide polymorphism databases. The UBQLN2 p.T487I mutation substitutes a highly conserved residue and is located immediately upstream of a PXX region where all previous mutations have been identified. Immunostaining of spinal cord from a patient with UBQLN2 p.T487I mutation showed colocalization of ubiquilin 2 with ubiquitin in all neuronal inclusions examined and frequent colocalization with TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) and fused in sarcoma protein (FUS). To examine ubiquilin 2 pathology in broader ALS, we showed that ubiquilin 2 pathology also extends to ALS with a FUS mutation. These data further support the importance of ubiquilin 2 in the pathogenesis of ALS.
One of the most reliable psychophysiological markers of aging is a linear decrease in the amplitude of the P300 potential, accompanied by a more frontal topographical orientation, but the precise neural origins of these differences have yet to be explored. We acquired simultaneous electroencephalogram (EEG)/functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) recordings from 14 older and 15 younger adults who performed a 3-stimulus visual oddball task designed to elicit P3a and P3b components. As in previous reports, older adults had significantly reduced P3a/P3b amplitudes over parietal electrodes but larger amplitudes over frontal scalp with no between-group differences in accuracy or reaction time. Electroencephalogram/functional magnetic resonance imaging fusion revealed that the P3a age effects were driven by increased activation of left inferior frontal and cingulate cortex and decreased activation of inferior parietal cortex in the older group. P3b differences were driven by increased activation of left temporal regions, right hippocampus, and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in the older group. Our results support the proposal that the age-related P300 anterior shift arises from an increased reliance on prefrontal structures to support target and distractor processing.
Our aim was to identify the best diagnostic test sequence for predicting Alzheimer's disease (AD)-type dementia in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) using cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) biomarkers. We selected 153 subjects with mild cognitive impairment from a multicenter memory clinic-based cohort. We tested the CSF beta amyloid (A)1-42/tau ratio using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and hippocampal volumes (HCVs) using the atlas-based learning embeddings for atlas propagation (LEAP) method. Outcome measure was progression to AD-type dementia in 2 years. At follow-up, 48 (31%) subjects converted to AD-type dementia. In multivariable analyses, CSF A1-42/tau and HCV predicted AD-type dementia regardless of apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype and cognitive scores. Test sequence analyses showed that CSF A1-42/tau increased predictive accuracy in subjects with normal HCV (p &lt; 0.001) and abnormal HCV (p = 0.025). HCV increased predictive accuracy only in subjects with normal CSF A1-42/tau (p = 0.014). Slope analyses for annual cognitive decline yielded similar results. For selection of subjects for a prodromal AD trial, the best balance between sample size and number of subjects needed to screen was obtained with CSF markers. These results provide further support for the use of CSF and magnetic resonance imaging biomarkers to identify prodromal AD.
We have previously reported that a modified Stone T-maze (STM), using escape from water as motivation, was effective in evaluating learning and memory ability in young C57/BL6 mice. Here we report on the effectiveness and sensitivity of the STM in the assessment of age-related learning and memory deficits in mice using either escape from foot shock or water as the motivational manipulations. C57BL/6Nia mice 7-, 12-, 20- and 24-months old received 15 massed trials in the escape from foot shock motivated STM while C57BL/6Nia mice 5-, 12-, and 25-months old were tested in the escape from water STM. Analysis of errors, the main performance variable, revealed similar results in both versions of the task with younger mice making fewer errors. Notably, mice of all ages in the water-motivated version moved quickly through the maze, while all ages of mice in the shock-motivated version tended to wait for shock to be initiated to move forward. Overall, both versions of the STM appear to be sensitive to age-related changes in learning and memory and provide an alternative to other testing paradigms such as the Morris water maze which are susceptible to performance confounds which can lead to uninterpretable results.
Components of the central autonomic network attract the greatest neurofibrillary degeneration and related cell death during the course of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The insular cortex and brainstem are affected from the early stages of disease. Acetylcholine, the main neurotransmitter of the parasympathetic system may be deficient in mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Hence, autonomic dysfunction may be a novel biomarker of neurodegeneration. Autonomic function was examined in 97 MCI participants and 36 controls using beside cardiovascular reflex tests and heart rate variability. The association between dysautonomia and neuropsychiatric deficits was examined. This observational study was conducted in a clinical setting. MCI participants showed significant parasympathetic deficits in bedside cardiovascular reflex tests and heart rate variability compared with controls. Those with more significant autonomic dysfunction had more severe neuropsychological deficits. MCI participants were 5.60 (95% confidence interval, 1.6-27.2) times more likely than a control to have autonomic dysfunction. Autonomic dysfunction, particularly parasympathetic dysfunction is prevalent in MCI. This may be due to early neuroanatomical and neurochemical changes in the central autonomic network in Alzheimer's disease. This may accelerate cognitive decline via proinflammatory mechanisms and/or hypotension-induced cerebral hypoperfusion. This provides insight into the pathophysiological mechanisms that contribute to cognitive decline, and may lead to the development of effective therapeutic interventions.
The GABRG2 nonsense mutation, Q40X, is associated with the severe epilepsy syndrome, Dravet syndrome, and is predicted to generate a premature translation-termination codon (PTC) in the GABA(A) receptor 2 subunit mRNA in a position that codes for the first amino acid of the mutant subunit. We determined the effects of the mutation on 2 subunit mRNA and protein synthesis and degradation, as well as on 122 GABA(A) receptor assembly, trafficking and surface expression in HEK cells. Using bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) constructs, we found that 2(Q40X) subunit mRNA was degraded by nonsense mediated mRNA decay (NMD). Undegraded mutant mRNA was translated to a truncated peptide, likely the signal peptide, which was cleaved further. We also found that mutant 2(Q40X) subunits did not assemble into functional receptors, thus decreasing GABA-evoked current amplitudes. The GABRG2(Q40X) mutation is one of several epilepsy-associated nonsense mutations that have the potential to be rescued by reading through the PTC, thus restoring full-length protein translation. As a first approach, we investigated the use of the aminoglycoside, gentamicin, to rescue translation of intact mutant subunits by inducing mRNA read-through. In the presence of gentamicin, synthesis of full length 2 subunits was partially restored, and surface biotinylation and whole cell recording experiments suggested that rescued 2 subunits could corporate into functional, surface GABA(A) receptors, indicating a possible direction for future therapy.
The cardinal symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD), akinesia, rigidity and tremor, are only observed when the striatal level of dopamine (DA) is decreased by 60-80%. It is likely that compensatory mechanisms during the early phase of DA depletion delay the appearance of motor symptoms. In a previous study, we proposed a new PD monkey model with progressive MPTP intoxication. Monkeys developed all of the motor symptoms and then fully recovered despite a large DA cell loss in the substantia nigra (SN). Compensatory mechanisms certainly help to offset the dysfunction induced by the DA lesion, facilitating motor recovery in this model. Neurotransmitter measurements in the striatal sensorimotor and associative/limbic territories of these monkeys subsequently revealed that DA and serotonin (5-HT) could play a role in recovery mechanisms. To try to determine the involvement of these neurotransmitters in compensatory mechanisms, we performed local injections of DA and 5-HT antagonists (cis-flupenthixol and mianserin, respectively) into these two striatal territories and into the external segment of the globus pallidus (GPe). Injections were performed on monkeys that were in an asymptomatic state after motor recovery. Most parkinsonian motor symptoms reappeared in animals with DA antagonist injections either in sensorimotor, associative/limbic striatal territories or in the GPe. In contrast to the effects with DA antagonist, there were mild parkinsonian effects with 5-HT antagonist, especially after injections in sensorimotor territories of the striatum and the GPe. These results support a possible, but slight, involvement of 5-HT in compensatory mechanisms and highlight the possible participation of 5-HT in some behavioural disorders. Furthermore, these results support the notion that the residual DA in the different striatal territories and the GPe could be involved in important mechanisms of compensation in PD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is diagnosed when striatal dopamine (DA) loss exceeds a certain threshold and the cardinal motor features become apparent. The presymptomatic compensatory mechanisms underlying the lack of motor manifestations despite progressive striatal depletion are not well understood. Most animal models of PD involve the induction of a severe dopaminergic deficit in an acute manner, which departs from the typical, chronic evolution of PD in humans. We have used 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) administered to monkeys via a slow intoxication protocol to produce a more gradual development of nigral lesion. Twelve control and 38 MPTP-intoxicated monkeys were divided into four groups. The latter included monkeys who were always asymptomatic, monkeys who recovered after showing mild parkinsonian signs, and monkeys with stable, moderate and severe parkinsonism. We found a close correlation between cell loss in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and striatal dopaminergic depletion and the four motor states. There was an overall negative correlation between the degree of parkinsonism (Kurlan scale) and in vivo PET ((18)F-DOPA K(i) and (11)C-DTBZ binding potential), as well as with TH-immunoreactive cell counts in SNc, striatal dopaminergic markers (TH, DAT and VMAT2) and striatal DA concentration. This intoxication protocol permits to establish a critical threshold of SNc cell loss and dopaminergic innervation distinguishing between the asymptomatic and symptomatic parkinsonian stages. Compensatory changes in nigrostriatal dopaminergic activity occurred in the recovered and parkinsonian monkeys when DA depletion was at least 88% of control, and accordingly may be considered too late to explain compensatory mechanisms in the early asymptomatic period. Our findings suggest the need for further exploration of the role of non-striatal mechanisms in PD prior to the development of motor features.
Movement representations in the motor cortex can reorganize to support motor skill learning during young adulthood. However, little is known about how motor representations change during aging or whether their change is influenced by continued practice of a skill after it is learned. We used intracortical microstimulation to characterize the organization of the forelimb motor cortex in young and aged C57/BL6 mice after short (2-4 weeks) or long (8 weeks) durations of training on a skilled reaching task or control procedures. In young mice, a short duration of reach training increased the area of proximal forelimb movement representations at the expense of distal representations. Following a longer training duration, ratios of proximal to distal movements returned to baseline, even with ongoing practice and skill maintenance. However, lingering changes were evident in thresholds for eliciting distal forelimb movements, which declined over the longer training period. In aged mice, movement representations and movement thresholds failed to change after either duration of training. Furthermore, there was an age-related loss of digit representations and performance decrements on other sensorimotor tests. Nevertheless, in quantitative measures of reaching success, aged mice learned and performed the skilled reaching task at least as well as younger mice. These results indicate that experience-driven topographical reorganization of motor cortex varies with age, as well as time, and is partially dissociable from behavioral performance. They also support an enduring capacity to learn new manual skills during aging, even as more youthful forms of cortical plasticity and sensorimotor function are lost.
The investigation of GABAergic systems in learning and extinction has principally focused on ionotropic GABA(A) receptors. Less well characterized is the metabotropic GABA(B) receptor, which when activated, induces a more sustained inhibitory effect and has been implicated in regulating oscillatory activity. Few studies have been carried out utilizing GABA(B) ligands in learning, and investigations of GABA(B) in extinction have primarily focused on interactions with drugs of abuse. The current study examined changes in GABA(B) receptor function using the GABA(B) agonist baclofen (2 mg/mL) or the GABA(B) antagonist phaclofen (0.3 mg/mL) on trace cued and contextual fear conditioning and extinction. The compounds were either administered during training and throughout extinction in Experiment 1, or starting 24 h after training and throughout extinction in Experiment 2. All drugs were administered 1 mL/kg via intraperitoneal injection. These studies demonstrated that the administration of baclofen during training and extinction trials impaired animals' ability to extinguish the fear association to the CS, whereas the animals that were administered baclofen starting 24 h after training (Experiment 2) did display some extinction. Further, contextual fear extinction was impaired by baclofen in both experiments. Tissue analyses suggest the cued fear extinction deficit may be related to changes in the GABA(B2) receptor subunit in the amygdala. The data in the present investigation demonstrate that GABA(B) receptors play an important role in trace cued and contextual fear extinction, and may function differently than GABA(A) receptors in learning, memory, and extinction.
Actin rearrangement, the polymerization of globular actin (G-actin) to filamentous actin, causes morphological changes in dendritic spines and is hypothesized to be a substrate of learning and memory. The ovarian hormone estradiol promotes hippocampal actin rearrangement and enhances performance on hippocampus-dependent tasks, including object placement memory. The goals of the current study were to determine a role for actin rearrangement and its regulatory pathway in object placement memory in female rats and to determine if estradiol impacts actin rearrangement in ovariectomized rats during the performance of the task. In an initial experiment, young adult Long-Evans rats were ovariectomized and implanted with capsules containing either cholesterol vehicle or estradiol. Bilateral intrahippocampal infusions of aCSF vehicle or the actin rearrangement inhibitor, latrunculin A, were administered 15 min prior to initiation of the object placement task. Latrunculin A dose-dependently impaired object placement memory. Estradiol had no impact on the ability of latrunculin A to affect performance. In a second experiment, rats were ovariectomized and received implants containing cholesterol or estradiol. Half of each hormone treatment group was exposed to the object placement memory task and half underwent control procedures. Immediately following completion of behavior, rats were euthanized and hippocampi removed. Western blotting was used to measure hippocampal levels of phosphorylated and total levels of a regulator of actin polymerization, the actin depolymerization factor cofilin. Exposure to the object placement memory task resulted in significant increases in phosphorylated levels of cofilin. Estradiol treatment had no impact on protein levels. These data support a role for hippocampal actin rearrangement and its regulatory proteins in object placement memory in female rats and suggest that chronic estradiol treatment does not impact hippocampal actin arrangement.
The neural mechanisms and brain circuitry involved in the formation, storage, and utilization of multisensory object representations are poorly understood. We have recently introduced a crossmodal object recognition (CMOR) task that enables the study of such questions in rats. Our previous research has indicated that the perirhinal and posterior parietal cortices functionally interact to mediate spontaneous (tactile-to-visual) CMOR performance in rats; however, it remains to be seen whether other brain regions, particularly those receiving polymodal sensory inputs, contribute to this cognitive function. In the current study, we assessed the potential contribution of one such polymodal region, the hippocampus (HPC), to crossmodal object recognition memory. Rats with bilateral excitotoxic HPC lesions were tested in two versions of crossmodal object recognition: (1) the original CMOR task, which requires rats to compare between a stored tactile object representation and visually-presented objects to discriminate the novel and familiar stimuli; and (2) a novel 'multimodal pre-exposure' version of the CMOR task (PE/CMOR), in which simultaneous exploration of the tactile and visual sensory features of an object 24 h prior to the sample phase enhances CMOR performance across longer retention delays. Hippocampus-lesioned rats performed normally on both crossmodal object recognition tasks, but were impaired on a radial arm maze test of spatial memory, demonstrating the functional effectiveness of the lesions. These results strongly suggest that the HPC, despite its polymodal anatomical connections, is not critically involved in tactile-to-visual crossmodal object recognition memory.
The mutant ubiquitin UBB(+1) is a substrate as well as an inhibitor of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and accumulates in the neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A role for the UPS has been suggested in the generation of amyloid  (A) plaques in AD. To investigate the effect of UBB(+1) expression on amyloid pathology in vivo, we crossed UBB(+1) transgenic mice with a transgenic line expressing AD-associated mutant amyloid precursor protein (APPSwe) and mutant presenilin 1 (PS1dE9), resulting in APPPS1/UBB(+1) triple transgenic mice. In these mice, we determined the A levels at 3, 6, 9 and 11 months of age. Surprisingly, we found a significant decrease in A deposition in amyloid plaques and levels of soluble A(42) in APPPS1/UBB(+1) transgenic mice compared to APPPS1 mice at 6 months of age, without alterations in UBB(+1) protein levels or proteasomal chymotrypsin activity. These lowering effects of UBB(+1) on A deposition were transient, as this relative decrease in plaque load was not significant in APPPS1/UBB(+1) mice at 9 and 11 months of age. We also show that APPPS1/UBB(+1) mice exhibit astrogliosis, indicating that they may not be improved functionally compared to APPPS1 mice despite the A reduction. The molecular mechanism underlying this decrease in A deposition in APPPS1/UBB(+1) mice is more complex than previously assumed because UBB(+1) is also ubiquitinated at K63 opening the possibility of additional effects of UBB(+1) (e.g. kinase activation).
Neuroinflammation has been shown to contribute to neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and major depression due to the inappropriate release of pro-inflammatory cytokines from activated microglia. The precise molecular events that mediate cytokine release from glia remain unknown but we suggest that the serine/threonine kinase glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) may be involved. The aim of this study therefore was to investigate the effect of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on expression and activity of the GSK-3 isoform in glia, and to assess if GSK-3 mediates the LPS-induced change in inflammatory cytokine levels in culture medium from rat glial-enriched cortical cultures. GSK-3 was expressed in microglia and astrocytes, and stimulation of these cultures with LPS induced an increase in GSK-3 expression and activity, and in pro-inflammatory cytokine levels in culture media. We show that GSK-3 inhibition using a small molecule inhibitor SB216763 or the mood stabiliser lithium chloride reduced the LPS-induced elevated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines present in culture media from rat glial-enriched cortical cultures. These results demonstrate a role for GSK-3 as a modulator of inflammatory cytokine levels in the brain, and contribute to a mechanistic insight into neurological disorders in which neuroinflammation is a characteristic feature.
Chronic stress and stress-related disorders, such as major depression (MD), have been shown to increase the risk for developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been postulated as a neurophysiological link between these illnesses. Our previous research has indicated that exposing the APPswe/PS1dE9 mouse model of AD to prenatal maternal stress (PS) induced a depressive-like phenotype, specifically in female mice. Considering the role of BDNF in depressive-like behavior and its interactions with amyloid- (A), our aim was to explore whether these mice would also exhibit alterations in soluble A, mature BDNF (mBDNF), proBDNF, and the receptors TrkB and p75(NTR) in comparison to non-stressed animals. Our results demonstrate that female APPswe/PS1dE9 mice have higher levels of hippocampal proBDNF and soluble A as compared to their male littermates. Additionally, a tendency was observed for PS to lower mBDNF protein levels in the hippocampus, but only in female mice, while receptor levels remained unaltered by sex or PS exposure. Given that female mice both have higher proBDNF and A levels, these findings suggest an underlying role for BDNF signaling and A production in the selective vulnerability of women for MD and AD development.




The brain is organized into a set of widely distributed networks. Therefore, although structural damage from stroke is focal, remote dysfunction can occur in regions connected to the area of lesion. Historically, neuroscience has focused on local processing due in part to the absence of tools to study the function of distributed networks. In this article we discuss how a more comprehensive understanding of the effects of stroke can be attained using resting state functional connectivity BOLD magnetic resonance imaging (resting state fcMRI). Resting state fcMRI has a number of advantages over task-evoked fMRI for studying brain network reorganization in response to stroke, including the ability to image subjects with a broad range of impairments and the ability to study multiple networks simultaneously. We describe our rationale for using resting state connectivity as a tool for investigating the neural substrates of stroke recovery in a heterogeneous population of stroke patients and discuss the main questions we hope to answer, in particular whether resting state fcMRI measures in the acute phase of stroke can predict subsequent recovery. Early results suggest that disruption of inter-hemispheric connectivity in the somatomotor network and the dorsal attention network is more strongly associated with behavioral impairment in those domains than is intra-hemispheric connectivity within either the lesioned or unaffected hemisphere. We also observe in the somatomotor network an interesting interaction between corticospinal tract damage and decreased inter-hemispheric connectivity that suggests that both processes combine to contribute to neuromotor impairment after stroke. A connectivity-based approach will provide greater insight into network reorganization in the acute and chronic phases after stroke and will contribute to improving prognostic ability and the development of therapeutic interventions.
Converging electrophysiological and neuroimaging data show that mammalian brain dynamics are governed by spontaneous modulations of neuronal activity levels in cortical and subcortical structures. The time scales of these fluctuations form a continuum from seconds to tens and hundreds of seconds corresponding to slow (0.1-1Hz), infra-slow (0.01-0.1Hz), and &quot;ultradian&quot; (&lt;0.01Hz) frequency bands, respectively. We focus here on the spontaneous neuronal dynamics in the infra-slow frequency band, infra-slow fluctuations (ISFs), and explore their electrophysiological substrates and behavioral correlates. Although electrophysiological ISFs and the associated infra-slow modulations of fast (here, &gt;1Hz) neuronal activities have been recognized on numerous occasions since late 50's, a resurgence in interest towards this frequency band has been driven by a discovery that ISFs in blood-oxygenation-level dependent (BOLD) signals are correlated among specific constellations of brain regions, which constitute intrinsic connectivity networks and define the dynamic architecture of spontaneous brain activity at large. Importantly, electrophysiological and BOLD signal ISFs are directly correlated both with ISFs in amplitudes of fast neuronal activities and with ISFs in behavioral performance. Moreover, both electrophysiological and neuroimaging data suggest that the apparently scale-free ISFs may arise from more local quasi-periodic infra-slow oscillations with a contribution of time-scale-specific cellular-level mechanisms. We conclude that ISFs in electrophysiological recordings, BOLD signals, neuronal activity levels, and behavioral time series are likely to reflect the same underlying phenomenon; a superstructure of interacting and transiently oscillatory ISFs that regulate both the integration within and decoupling between concurrently active neuronal communities.
Optogenetic functional magnetic resonance imaging (ofMRI) is a novel approach that combines optogenetic control of neural circuits with high-field functional MRI. Optogenetics is a neuro-modulation technology in which light-activated trans-membrane conductance regulators are introduced into specifically targeted cell types to allow temporally precise, millisecond-scale activity modulation in vivo. By combining optogenetic control with fMRI readout, neural activity arising from specific circuit elements defined by genetic identity, cell body location, and axonal projection targets can be monitored in vivo across the whole brain. These unique features of ofMRI open new vistas for in vivo characterization of the dense plexus of neural connections according to their type and functionality.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has revealed that the human brain undergoes prominent, regional hemodynamic fluctuations when a subject is at rest. These ongoing fluctuations exhibit distinct patterns of spatiotemporal synchronization that have been dubbed &quot;resting state functional connectivity&quot;, and which currently serve as a principal tool to investigate neural networks in the normal and pathological human brain. Despite the wide application of this approach in human neuroscience, the neural mechanisms that give rise to spontaneous fMRI correlations are largely unknown. Here we review results of recent electrophysiological studies in the cerebral cortex of humans and nonhuman primates that link neural activity to ongoing fMRI fluctuations. We begin by describing results obtained with simultaneous fMRI and electrophysiological measurements that allow for the identification of direct neural correlates of resting state functional connectivity. We next highlight experiments that investigate the correlational structure of spontaneous neural signals, including the spatial variation of signal coherence over the cortical surface, across cortical laminae, and between the two hemispheres. In the final section we speculate on the origins and potential consequences of ongoing signals for normal brain function, and point out inherent limitations of the fMRI correlation approach.

The objective of this study was to determine the relationship between sleepiness and migraine in the intercritical period and to evaluate the time course of critical drowsiness during the attacks. One hundred patients fulfilling IHCD 2nd (2004) criteria for migraine without aura were compared to 100 healthy subjects. Habitual excessive daily sleepiness, evaluated by means of Epworth Sleepiness Scale, was not more frequent in patients with episodic migraine than in controls (12% migraineurs vs. 8% controls, NS). The analysis of critical sleepiness by means of Stanford Sleepiness Scale (SSS) revealed a beginning of sleepiness increase before the attack onset, starting 12 h before, a peak of SSS values at the migraine attack onset and then a gradual decrease to reach baseline values only 12-24 h later. Moreover, patients responding to symptomatic drugs showed a greater and faster decrease of critical sleepiness in comparison with non-responder migraineurs; this finding allows excluding the role of medications in promoting critical somnolence and together with critical drowsiness time-course supports the hypothesis that vigilance impairment could be related to migraine pathogenesis.
Saitohin (STH) is an intronless gene nested within the human tau gene, which contains a single nucleotide polymorphism (A/G), suggested to be involved in the physiopathology and clinical course of several neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric diseases. Recently, an association between this polymorphism and frontal hypoperfusion and clinical prognosis in frontotemporal dementia was reported. The present study sought to evaluate the possible role of the STH polymorphism as a concurring factor of cognitive decline in schizophrenia, a disease sharing both early psychotic manifestations, a core deficit of executive functions and hypofrontality with frontotemporal lobe dementia. 220 clinically stabilized patients with schizophrenia were assessed with the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) for evaluation of executive functions and compared for STH allele frequency with 48 patients affected by frontotemporal dementia and 47 healthy subjects. There was no significant difference in allelic distribution between the healthy controls and all other groups, while we observed a significantly greater frequency of G allele among both patients with frontotemporal dementia (p = 0.037) and schizophrenia patients with poor performances of WCST (p = 0.044), compared to schizophrenia patients with best WCST performances. Among the patients with schizophrenia, stratified for age and gender, the STH polymorphism resulted in a significant predictor of WCST performance (p = 0.007). These results suggest a possible contribution of STH gene products on the heterogeneity of core frontal executive functions deterioration, probably through complex interactions with mechanism involved in neurodevelopment and neurodegeneration.
Accumulating evidence indicates that the intraneuronal accumulation of beta-amyloid peptide (A) is earlier than the formation of extraneuronal amyloid plaque but the mechanism of the accumulation remains unclear. p75NTR is a receptor for A and interacts with A in vitro and in vivo but whether p75NTR mediates A internalization and intraneuronal accumulation is not known. In this study, we aim to determine if p75NTR mediates A internalization, which might provide new insights into A metabolism and toxicity. FRET analysis in PC12 cells showed that internalized A was close to p75NTR. A1-42 could be internalized in PC12 cells in a concentration-dependent manner but the antibody to the p75NTR extracellular domain did not prevent its internalization. A1-42 could also be internalized in mouse neonatal cortical neurons and the deletion of p75NTR in these neurons did not prevent its internalization but prevented A neurotoxicity. Cholesterol at 10 M significantly increased A1-42 internalization in PC12 cells. Internalized A1-42 is mainly co-localized with Beclin-1 (a biomarker of autophagosomes) but not with endosomal and lysomal markers. p75NTR may not play a main role in A internalization at the concentrations tested but is responsible for A induced toxicity in primary neurons. Internalized A is mainly sorted to autophagosomes for metabolism.
According to the reserve hypothesis, a high educational/occupational attainment can modulate Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinical expression. The impact of the Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) 4 allele on the reserve mechanism in AD has not been assessed. Aim of this European multicenter study was to evaluate the metabolic correlates of reserve and ApoE genotype in early probable AD. 51 AD subjects, 27 4 carriers, and 24 noncarriers, underwent FDG-PET brain imaging. We used the general linear model as implemented in SPM2 to test for the linear correlation of a reserve index, accounting for both educational and occupational level, with brain glucose metabolism, controlling for demographic variables (age and gender) and for cognitive performance. We found an inverse correlation between a reserve index, accounting for educational/occupational level, and metabolism in the posterior cingulate cortex and precuneus in both 4 carriers and noncarriers, and no significant difference between the groups. We show that education and occupation act as proxies for reserve in 4 carriers, compensating for an unfavorable genetic background; we also show that the degree of compensation does not differ significantly by ApoE 4 status.
Neuropathology has been the key to understanding the aetiology of many neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, frontotemporal degeneration and cerebellar ataxias. Dystonia shares many clinical features with these conditions but research in general, has been unrewarding in providing information on disease processes. Neuropathological studies are few in number and only limited morphological abnormalities have been described. In the genetic literature, dystonia loci are represented as DYT and are assigned ascending numerals chronologically as they are identified. This review will concentrate on the neuropathology of primary pure dystonia, focusing on DYT1 and DYT6 and the correlation between clinical and genetic findings. Research in this area is incomplete and confounded by the rarity of post mortem brain tissue. However, recent findings, indicating a direct interaction between the torsinA (TOR1A) gene responsible for DYT1 and the thanatos-associated domain-containing apoptosis-associated protein 1 (THAP1) gene responsible for DYT6, have important implications in understanding these two entities and also for other members of this group of disorders.
The transactive response DNA binding protein (TDP-43) proteinopathies describe a clinico-pathological spectrum of multi-system neurodegeneration that spans motor neuron disease/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (MND/ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). We have identified four male patients who presented with the clinical features of a pure MND/ALS phenotype (without dementia) but who had distinctive cortical and cerebellar pathology that was different from other TDP-43 proteinopathies. All patients initially presented with weakness of limbs and respiratory muscles and had a family history of MND/ALS. None had clinically identified cognitive decline or dementia during life and they died between 11 and 32 months after symptom onset. Neuropathological investigation revealed lower motor neuron involvement with TDP-43-positive inclusions typical of MND/ALS. In contrast, the cerebral pathology was atypical, with abundant star-shaped p62-immunoreactive neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions in the cerebral cortex, basal ganglia and hippocampus, while TDP-43-positive inclusions were sparse. This pattern was also seen in the cerebellum where p62-positive, TDP-43-negative inclusions were frequent in granular cells. Western blots of cortical lysates, in contrast to those of sporadic MND/ALS and FTLD-TDP, showed high p62 levels and low TDP-43 levels with no high molecular weight smearing. MND/ALS-associated SOD1, FUS and TARDBP gene mutations were excluded; however, further investigations revealed that all four of the cases did show a repeat expansion of C9orf72, the recently reported cause of chromosome 9-linked MND/ALS and FTLD. We conclude that these chromosome 9-linked MND/ALS cases represent a pathological sub-group with abundant p62 pathology in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum but with no significant associated cognitive decline.
Galanin, a 29-aminoacid peptide (30 in humans), is widely distributed in the nervous and endocrine systems and exerts its actions via three G-protein-coupled receptors, GalR1-3. The galanin system has, among others, been associated with tumorigenesis. Our objective was to assess the expression of galanin and its receptors in pituitary tumors. Transcript levels of galanin and galanin receptors 1-3 (GalR1-3) were measured using quantitative real-time PCR (q-PCR) in pituitary tumors, surgically removed from thirteen patients, and twelve post mortem pituitaries. Galanin, GalR1 and GalR2 mRNA, but not GalR3 mRNA, were found in the twelve human post-mortem pituitaries. Expression of GalR1 was relatively increased in most, whereas GalR2 was decreased in some tumors. High levels of GalR3 were only found in tumors of five patients, who all relapsed shortly after surgical intervention. The results suggest that GalR3, a receptor for the neuroendocrine peptide galanin, is a potential marker for relapsing pituitary tumors. Thus, galanin receptors may play an important role in pituitary tumors, also for surgical outcome and prognosis, and may serve as a diagnostic tool. The association of GalR3 with tumor relapse suggests that antagonists to this receptor represent a potential therapeutic approach to treatment of pituitary tumors.
Alterations in synaptic plasticity and neurocognitive function with age have been well documented in the literature. These changes are accompanied by modifications of neurotransmitter systems in the central nervous system (CNS). The serotonergic system in particular plays an important role in attention, alertness and cognition. Disturbances in serotonergic function have been implicated in differing neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders including depression, psychosis aggression and dementia. The serotonin receptor subtype 5HT6 is distributed within CNS regions relevant to learning and memory, including the striatum, cortex and hippocampus. We examined here the effects of acute and chronic administration of the 5HT6 receptor antagonist SB742457 on performance in a delayed non-matching-to-sample task (DNMS), which was used to identify neurocognitive differences between middle-aged (MA, 13months) and young adult (YG, 3months) rats. We found that MA rats have significantly lower performance in the DNMS task compared to YG rats. Acute administration of SB742457 (3mg/kg/po) significantly improved performance of the MA rats. Chronic administration of SB742457 (3mg/kg) reversed the age-related deficit of the MA to match their performance to that of YG rats. Furthermore, these improvements were observed for 1 week post-SB742457 treatment cessation. The acute and chronic effects of this treatment suggest that there is both an immediate effect on neurotransmitter action and potentially a longer-term modification of synaptic plasticity. Together these data indicate a role for modulation of the serotonergic system in the development of cognition-enhancing agents.
Ischemic postconditioning, a series of mechanical interruptions of blood flow immediately after reperfusion, has been described in brain studies. However, hypoxic postconditioning (HPC) has never been reported in transient global cerebral ischemia (tGCI) adult rat model. The purpose of this study is to explore the effects of neuroprotection by delayed HPC against tGCI in adult rats and investigate underlying mechanisms involving the Akt/Forkhead transcription factor, class O (FoxO) and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathways. Postconditioning with 60-120min hypoxia significantly reduced cell death in hippocampal CA1 subregion after 10min of tGCI. Postconditioning was effective only when applied 1-2 days after tGCI. Nevertheless, the combination of hypoxic preconditioning and postconditioning provided no additive protection. Additionally, postconditioning increased phosphorylation of Akt and FoxOs after tGCI. Inhibiting phosphorylation of Akt and FoxOs with LY294002 suppressed the postconditioning-induced neuroprotection. In addition, postconditioning blocked the increase of MEK and ERK phosphorylation after tGCI. Inhibiting phosphorylation of MEK and ERK with U0126 attenuated neuronal damage after tGCI. These results suggest that delayed HPC exerts neuroprotection against tGCI-induced injury in adult rats. The activation of Akt/FoxO and inactivation of MEK/ERK pathways by postconditioning contributed to the induction of neuroprotection against tGCI.
The periodic presentation of a sensory stimulus induces, at certain frequencies of stimulation, a sustained electroencephalographic response of corresponding frequency, known as steady-state evoked potentials (SS-EP). In visual, auditory and vibrotactile modalities, studies have shown that SS-EP reflect mainly activity originating from early, modality-specific sensory cortices. Furthermore, it has been shown that SS-EP have several advantages over the recording of transient event-related brain potentials (ERP), such as a high signal-to-noise ratio, a shorter time to obtain reliable signals, and the capacity to frequency-tag the cortical activity elicited by concurrently presented sensory stimuli. Recently, we showed that SS-EP can be elicited by the selective activation of skin nociceptors and that nociceptive SS-EP reflect the activity of a population of neurons that is spatially distinct from the somatotopically-organized population of neurons underlying vibrotactile SS-EP. Hence, the recording of SS-EP offers a unique opportunity to study the cortical representation of nociception and touch in humans, and to explore their potential crossmodal interactions. Here, (1) we review available methods to achieve the rapid periodic stimulation of somatosensory afferents required to elicit SS-EP, (2) review previous studies that have characterized vibrotactile and nociceptive SS-EP, (3) discuss the nature of the recorded signals and their relationship with transient event-related potentials and (4) outline future perspectives and potential clinical applications of this technique.
To be considered specific for nociception, a cortical region should: (a) have plausible connections with ascending nociceptive pathways; (b) be activated by noxious stimuli; (c) trigger nociceptive sensations if directly stimulated; and (d) tone down nociception when injured. In addition, lesions in this area should have a potential to develop neuropathic pain, as is the case of all lesions in nociceptive pathways. The single cortical region approaching these requirements in humans encompasses the suprasylvian posterior insula and its adjoining medial operculum (referred to as &quot;PIMO&quot; in this review). This region does not contain, however, solely nociceptive networks, but represents in primates the main sensory receiving area of the spinothalamic system, and as such contributes to the processing of thermo-sensory, nociceptive, C-fibre tactile, and visceral input. Nociception (and, a fortiori, pain) should therefore not be considered as a separate sensory modality, like vision or audition, but rather as one component of a global system subtending the most primitive forms of somatosensation. Although a clear functional segregation of PIMO sub-areas has not yet been achieved, some preferential distribution has been described in humans: pain-related networks appear preferentially distributed within the posterior insula, and non-noxious thermal processing in the adjacent medial operculum. Thus, spinothalamic sub-modalities may be partially segregated in the PIMO, in analogy with the separate representation of dorsal column input from joint, muscle spindle and tactile afferents in S1. Specificity, however, may not wholly depend on ascending 'labelled lines' but also on cortical network properties driven by intrinsic and extrinsic circuitry. Given its particular anatomo-functional properties, thalamic connections, and tight relations with limbic and multisensory cortices, the PIMO region deserves to be considered as a third somatosensory region (S3) devoted to the processing of spinothalamic inputs.
Representation of time may affect pain perception. We investigated a group of volunteers looking at different clocks while they were being exposed to the same intensity of pain in two experiments. In one case, they saw the actual time, while in the other, they gazed at a clock that made it seem like the stimulation was shortened, even though it wasn't. These results show that simply believing that time is on your side can make anything more bearable. The results were not influenced by the color of the clock (red or green), or the presence of indexes such as (sad or smiling) smileys. The effects were maximal for high intensities of stimulation (pain threshold +1C) if the stimulation lasted for at least 25s but were absent if the stimulation was short (15 min). These results suggest that pain modulation by time context is mainly available for long and intense painful stimulations. The right upper and posterior parietal cortex may support this effect. These findings are discussed with regard to previous literature of pain modulations but also with regard to the concept of the &quot;pain matrix&quot;, its inputs and the temporal dynamics of its constitutive responses.
The variability of warm and heat pain sensitivity between body regions is usually ascribed to differences in intraepidermal nerve fiber (IENF) density. However, although crucial to assess the function of the thermo-nociceptive system, especially in the context of small fiber neuropathies, the relationship between psychophysical performance and IENF density is poorly understood. Here, we examine the hypothesis according to which the nociceptive system must receive a critical amount of afferent information to generate a conscious percept and/or a behavioral response. The amount of nociceptive information is defined by the stimulus, but also by the state of the nervous system encoding, transmitting and processing the afferent input. Furthermore, this amount may be expected to depend on the number of activated IENF, itself dependent on the size of the stimulated surface area as well as the density of IENF. By characterizing the relationship between psychophysical responses to nociceptive stimuli, size of the stimulated surface area and IENF density estimated using skin biopsies in healthy subjects as well as experimental and pathological conditions of reduced IENF density, we were able to estimate the number of nociceptive afferents required to elicit a conscious percept. Convergent results were obtained across the different experiments, indicating that the detection rate to brief small-diameter CO(2) laser pulses could be used to estimate IENF density and, hence, to diagnose and quantify denervation in small fiber neuropathies.
Acquiring literacy establishes connections between the spoken and written system and modifies the functioning of the spoken system. As most evidence comes from on-line speech recognition tasks, it is still a matter of debate when and how these two systems interact in metaphonological tasks. The present event-related potentials study investigated the role and activation time course of the phonological and orthographic representations in an auditory same/different phoneme judgment task in which the congruency between phoneme and grapheme was orthogonally manipulated. We reported distinct time windows and topographies for phonological and orthographic effects. The phonological effect emerged early at central and parietal electrode sites and faded away later on, whereas the orthographic effect increased progressively, first observable at central and parietal sites before generalizing at the frontal site. These effects are clearly different from what has been reported in speech recognition tasks and suggest that our cognitive system is flexible enough to adjust its functioning to respond to the task demands in an optimal way.
Alcoholism (ALC) and HIV-1 infection (HIV) each affects emotional and attentional processes and integrity of brain white matter fibers likely contributing to functional compromise. The highly prevalent ALC+HIV comorbidity may exacerbate compromise. We used diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and an emotional Stroop Match-to-Sample task in 19 ALC, 16 HIV, 15 ALC+HIV, and 15 control participants to investigate whether disruption of fiber system integrity accounts for compromised attentional and emotional processing. The task required matching a cue color to that of an emotional word with faces appearing between the color cue and the Stroop word in half of the trials. Nonmatched cue-word color pairs assessed selective attention, and face-word pairs assessed emotion. Relative to controls, DTI-based fiber tracking revealed lower inferior longitudinal fasciculus (ilf) integrity in HIV and ALC+HIV and lower uncinate fasciculus (uf) integrity in all three patient groups. Controls exhibited Stroop effects to positive face-word emotion, and greater interference was related to greater callosal, cingulum and ilf integrity. By contrast, HIV showed greater interference from negative Stroop words during color-nonmatch trials, correlating with greater uf compromise. For face trials, ALC and ALC+HIV showed greater Stroop-word interference, correlating with lower cingulate and callosal integrity. Thus, in HIV, conflict resolution was diminished when challenging conditions usurped resources needed to manage interference from negative emotion and to disengage attention from wrongly cued colors (nonmatch). In ALC and ALC+HIV, poorer callosal integrity was related to enhanced emotional interference suggesting curtailed interhemispheric exchange needed between preferentially right-hemispheric emotion and left-hemispheric Stroop-word functions.
Unwanted memories, such as emotionally negative, can be intentionally suppressed through voluntary control in humans. Memory suppression is thought to be mediated by the interplay of a chain of neurocognitive processes. However, empirical data in support of this notion is lacking. Using high-temporal resolution event-related potential (ERP) technique, we investigated the time course of ERPs associated with suppression of negative and neutral memories in a Think/No-Think paradigm in young, healthy participants. Results showed that participants had greater difficulty in suppressing emotionally negative memories than neutral ones. ERPs and source analyses demonstrated that memory suppression processing for negative and neutral memories were generally associated with changes during early components of a time window of 70-260 ms, such as P1 and N2, mainly at the right inferior frontal gyrus and occipital lobe; suppression of aversive memories was associated with two major late ERP components between 380 and 800 ms, with significantly smaller later negativity (LN) but larger late parietal positivity (LPP), primarily at the right medial and superior frontal gyri. These results suggest that differences in early components may reflect early stages of suppression processing including visual awareness, attention reallocation, and executive processing. Differences in late components between suppression of aversive and neutral memories may reflect a process of down-regulating conscious recollection of memory representations supported by prefrontal and parietal networks. A less effective control of this process, as evidenced by smaller LN and larger LPP, may explain the fact that emotionally negative memories were harder to be suppressed. Altogether, these findings suggest that suppression of aversive memories requires down-regulation of late conscious recollection, which can be dissociated from early visual and attention processing in memory suppression.
Letter recognition is the foundation of the human reading system. Despite this, it tends to receive little attention in computational modelling of single word reading. Here we present a model that can be trained to recognise letters in various spatial transformations. When presented with degraded stimuli the model makes letter confusion errors that correlate with human confusability data. Analyses of the internal representations of the model suggest that a small set of learned visual feature detectors support the recognition of both upper case and lower case letters in various fonts and transformations. We postulated that a damaged version of the model might be expected to act in a similar manner to patients suffering from pure alexia. Summed error score generated from the model was found to be a very good predictor of the reading times of pure alexic patients, outperforming simple word length, and accounting for 47% of the variance. These findings are consistent with a hypothesis suggesting that impaired visual processing is a key to understanding the strong word-length effects found in pure alexic patients.
Whereas the majority of cocaine users quit as they experience the negative consequences of drug use, some lose control over their drug taking and compulsively seek drugs. We report that 20% of rats compulsively seek cocaine despite intermittent negative outcomes after escalating their cocaine self-administration. This compulsive subgroup showed marked reductions in forebrain serotonin utilization; increasing serotonin transmission reduced their compulsive cocaine seeking. Depleting forebrain serotonin induced compulsive cocaine seeking in rats with a limited cocaine taking history; this was reversed by systemic treatment with a 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT2C) receptor agonist and mimicked by systemic treatment with a 5-HT2C receptor antagonist in intact animals. These results indicate the causal involvement of reduced serotoninergic transmission in the emergence of compulsive drug seeking after a long cocaine-taking history.
A number of lines of evidence suggest that negative emotional symptoms of withdrawal involve reduced activity in the mesolimbic dopamine system. This study examined the contribution of dopaminergic signaling in structures downstream of the ventral tegmental area to withdrawal from acute morphine exposure, measured as potentiation of the acoustic startle reflex. Systemic administration of the general dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine or a cocktail of the D1-like receptor agonist SKF82958 and the D2-like receptor agonist quinpirole attenuated potentiated startle during morphine withdrawal. This effect was replicated by apomorphine infusion into the nucleus accumbens shell. Finally, apomorphine injection was shown to relieve startle potentiation during nicotine withdrawal and conditioned place aversion to morphine withdrawal. These results suggest that transient activation of the ventral tegmental area mesolimbic dopamine system triggers the expression of anxiety and aversion during withdrawal from multiple classes of abused drugs.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are neurodevelopmental syndromes characterised by repetitive behaviours and restricted interests, impairments in social behaviour and relations, and in language and communication. These symptoms are also observed in a number of developmental disorders of known origin, including Fragile X Syndrome, Rett Syndrome, and Foetal Anticonvulsant Syndrome. While these conditions have diverse etiologies, and poorly understood pathologies, emerging evidence suggests that they may all be linked to dysfunction in particular aspects of GABAergic inhibitory signalling in the brain. We review evidence from genetics, molecular neurobiology and systems neuroscience relating to the role of GABA in these conditions. We conclude by discussing how these deficits may relate to the specific symptoms observed.
The paper reviews of all of the current evidence on Theory of Mind (ToM) abilities in patients with neurodegenerative diseases. ToM refers to the abilities to attribute mental states to others. Two neural systems are involved in processing other people's beliefs and intentions (cognitive component) and others' emotions and feelings (affective component). We hypothesize that patients with different neurodegenerative diseases may present different patterns of ToM deficits on the basis of how different neuropathological processes affect the neural bases of ToM components during the progression of a disease. The studies we reviewed provided evidence of a deficit of the cognitive ToM component in cortical (Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia) and frontal-subcortical (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and basal ganglia disorders) neurodegenerative diseases. As regards the affective ToM component, it resulted markedly impaired in frontotemporal dementia; it also resulted that performances in tasks assessing this process are heterogeneous in Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The findings presented support the opportunity to introduce validated ToM tasks in the neuropsychological assessment of neurodegenerative diseases.


Although physical activity reduces anxiety in humans, the neural basis for this response is unclear. Rodent models are essential to understand the mechanisms that underlie the benefits of exercise. However, it is controversial whether exercise exerts anxiolytic-like potential in rodents. Evidence is reviewed to evaluate the effects of wheel running, an experimental mode of exercise in rodents, on behavior in tests of anxiety and on norepinephrine and galanin systems in neural circuits that regulate stress. Stress is proposed to account for mixed behavioral findings in this literature. Indeed, running promotes an adaptive response to stress and alters anxiety-like behaviors in a manner dependent on stress. Running amplifies galanin expression in noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) and suppresses stress-induced activity of the LC and norepinephrine output in LC-target regions. Thus, enhanced galanin-mediated suppression of brain norepinephrine in runners is supported by current literature as a mechanism that may contribute to the stress-protective effects of exercise. These data support the use of rodents to study the emotional and neurobiological consequences of exercise.
We suggest that working memory (WM) performance can be conceptualized as the interplay of low-level feature binding processes and top-down control, relating to posterior and frontal brain regions and their interaction in a distributed neural network. We propose that due to age-differential trajectories of posterior and frontal brain regions top-down control processes are not fully mature until young adulthood and show marked decline with advancing age, whereas binding processes are relatively mature in children, but show senescent decline in older adults. A review of the literature spanning from middle childhood to old age shows that binding and top-down control processes undergo profound changes across the lifespan. We illustrate commonalities and dissimilarities between children, younger adults, and older adults reflecting the change in the two components' relative contribution to visual WM performance across the lifespan using results from our own lab. We conclude that an integrated account of visual WM lifespan changes combining research from behavioral neuroscience and cognitive psychology of child development as well as aging research opens avenues to advance our understanding of cognition in general.
While the amygdalar role in fear conditioning is well established, it also appears to be involved in a wide spectrum of other functions concerning emotional information. For example, the amygdala is thought to be involved in guiding spatial attention to emotionally relevant information such as the eye region in faces, and it gets activated differentially during different tasks. Here, we propose that the guidance of feature-based attention is the basis for the involvement of the amygdala in these seemingly disparate functions. Feature-based attention usually precedes spatial attention, and performing different tasks usually requires attending to different features. Although to date, no experiments have specifically tested the amygdalar role in feature-based attention, studies showing that the amygdala responds to simple elements, and findings of amygdalar involvement in non-spatial forms of attention hint at such a role. Our hypothesis that the amygdala guides feature-based attention builds on earlier proposals that the amygdala guides spatial attention and assesses biological relevance, but it is more specific and accounts for the failure to find amygdalar activation when spatial cues guide attention. Our hypothesis results in the testable prediction that the amygdala is involved when searching for stimuli based on their feature information, but not when searching for stimuli based on spatial cues.
Neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) are generated in early embryonic brains and maintained to produce neurons and glial cells in the central nervous system throughout the lifespan. A transcription factor Pax6 is a pivotal player in various neurodevelopmental processes. Previously, we have shown that Pax6 heterozygous rodents have defects in hippocampal neurogenesis and production of olfactory bulb interneurons. However, characters of NSPCs derived from Pax6 heterozygous rodents have not been studied in vitro. Here we examined the maintenance/proliferation and differentiation of Pax6 heterozygous mutant (rSey(2)/+) rat NSPCs in the neurosphere culture system. We found that the proliferative activity of NSPCs derived from rSey(2)/+ rats was reduced after serial passages. We also observed an excess astrogenesis in serially passaged NSPCs from rSey(2)/+ rats. These results show that Pax6 is essential for maintaining NSPCs and determining their differentiation fates.
The neural pathways underlying the respiratory responses elicited by electrical or chemical stimulation of the lateral part of the periaqueductal gray (lPAG) remain unsettled. In the present study, we examined the lPAG projection to neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1R)-immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the ventrolateral medulla (VLM) which have been implicated in the control of respiration. After biotinylated dextranamine (BDA) injection into the lPAG, NK1R-ir neurons in the rostral VLM were embedded in the plexus of BDA-labeled fibers. At the electron microscopic level, the BDA-labeled terminals made asymmetrical synaptic contacts predominantly with dendrites and additionally with somata of the NK1R-ir neurons. Using retrograde tracing combined with in situ hybridization, we demonstrated that the vast majority of the lPAG neurons projecting to the rostral VLM were positive for vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) mRNA, but not for glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 mRNA. Using a combination of anterograde tracing and immunohistochemistry, we further demonstrated that the lPAG axon terminals with VGLUT2 immunoreactivity made close apposition with the NK1R-ir neuronal profiles in the rostral VLM. These data suggest that lPAG neurons exert an excitatory influence on NK1R-expressing neurons in the rostral VLM for the control of respiration.
Myoclonus is defined as large-amplitude rhythmic movements. Brain regions underlying myoclonic jerks include brainstem, cerebellum, and cortex. Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) appears to be the main neurotransmitter involved in myoclonus, possibly interacting with biogenic amines, opiates, acetylcholine, and glycine. Myoclonic jumping is a specific subtype seen in rodents, comprising rearing and hopping continuously against a wall. Myoclonic jumping can be seen in normal mouse strains, possibly as a result of simply being put inside a cage. Like other types, it is also triggered by changes in GABA, 5HT, and dopamine neurotransmission. Implicated brain regions include hippocampus and dorsal striatum, possibly with respect to D(1) dopamine, NMDA, and  opioid receptors. There is reason to suspect that myoclonic jumping is underreported due to insufficient observations into mouse cages.






A 21-year-old woman was admitted with right hemiparesis, bilateral papilledema, negative myoclonus of right upper extremity, and bilateral pyramidal findings. An MRI showed no venous flow in the inferior sagittal sinus. Lipoprotein a (Lp [a]) level was high and iron deficiency anemia (IDA) was found. The coexistence of IDA and Lp (a) in patients with cerebral venous thrombosis is a very rare condition in adult patients. These risk factors should be investigated in patients with cerebral venous thrombosis.
Pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy presents early in life, even in utero. It is usually refractory to conventional antiepileptic medications and responds only to lifelong pyridoxine supplementation. Seizures are usually generalized tonic clonic. We report a 3-year-old child that was born prematurely at 25 weeks of gestation. He presented with abnormal movements in the second month of life. At 10 months of age he presented with status epilepticus, which was refractory to multiple antiepileptic medications and was controlled with intravenous pyridoxine. An elevated level of a-aminoadipic semialdehyde excretion in the urine supported the diagnosis of pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy. Subsequently, a c.1195G&gt;C homozygous mutation in the 5q31 aldehyde dehydrogenase 7A1 gene was confirmed. This case calls for considering pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy and its early management in cases with resistant seizures; even in the presence of extreme prematurity with its neurological consequences.
Thrombolysis with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) is clinically effective at treating acute ischemic stroke. However, the use of thrombolytic therapy is associated with an increased risk of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (sICH). Whether unacceptable surgical hemorrhage occurs after emergent decompressive craniotomy during the first hours for sICH remains unknown. We report a 69-year-old Chinese woman with a fibrinolysis-related sICH, and discuss the efficacy and the safety of craniotomy in this setting. An urgent decompressive craniotomy was performed through a standard pterional approach without any procoagulant therapy before operation. No unacceptable surgical hemorrhage occurred during the first hours after onset of sICH, and the outcome of this patient is fairly good. Early urgent decompressive craniectomy in the treatment of fibrinolysis-related sICH may be a safe therapy, which may improve clinical outcomes.
Management of intracranial hypertension is a major cornerstone of neurocritical care. Apart from traumatic brain injury, there are no clear guidelines for intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring. The insertion of ICP monitors is an invasive procedure with inherent risks and could be contraindicated in case of severe coagulopathy. The transcranial Doppler (TCD) pulsatility index (PI) has emerged as a surrogate marker for ICP. This is a technical report with illustrative cases on the use of PI in the management of high ICP, as a guide for optimal dosing of hyperosmolar agents we use in our institution. The use of TCD PI is a useful adjunct to guide the use of hyperosmolar therapy in various conditions with raised intracranial hypertension. We will discuss the combination of the PI determination with an anatomical evaluation of the optic nerve diameter to eliminate confounding factors in PI determination.







Suicide by self-immolation, or lighting oneself on fire, is the most common method of suicide used among women in rural Iran. Understanding the underlying mechanisms that may lead women to commit suicide by self-immolation is necessary for the development of empirically-supported prevention programs. Currently, no integrative approach to the risk factors for self-immolation among women in rural areas, or the interactions between them, is available. Based in ecology theory, we review the risk factors for suicide by self-immolation and present them in terms of ecological theory in an attempt to offer an integrative approach for prevention of self-immolation among women in rural Iran. We conclude by recommending a multifaceted approach to prevention of self-immolation.
Remote cerebellar hemorrhage (RCH) is a rare complication in neurosurgery that remains enigmatic both in underlying mechanism and clinical behavior. The range of procedures associated with RCH is diverse and includes both supratentorial and spinal procedures that entail significant CSF loss or lesion resection. The risk factors identified in the literature are not sufficient in predicting the patients at risk of developing RCH. It thereby remains an unpredictable hazard that requires better understanding of its pathophysiology. This study is a comprehensive review of the available literature to provide an understanding of where it stands so far, and to explain an observation in the literature that may have implications for better understanding the disease. Areas of future research are also identified.
The description of ionic currents that flow across the membrane of the squid giant axon during an action potential sparked an interest in determining whether there were similar currents in vertebrates. The preparation of choice was the node of Ranvier in single myelinated fibers in frog. Jos del Castillo spent 3 years on the United States mainland from 1956 to 1959. During that time, he collaborated with Jerome Y. Lettvin and John W. Moore. I discuss how these individuals met one another and some of their scientific discoveries using the voltage clamp to study squid giant axons and frog nodes. Much of this work was conducted at the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, MA, and I attempt to convey a sense of the unique scientific &quot;melting pot&quot; that existed at the Marine Biological Laboratory and the broader effect that del Castillo had on &quot;modern&quot; neuroscience.
Understanding restricted functional recovery and designing efficient treatments to alleviate dysfunction after injury of the nervous system remain major challenges in neuroscience and medicine. Numerous molecules of potential significance in neural repair have been identified in vitro, but only few of these have proved to be of major importance in vivo up to now. Among the molecules involved in regeneration are several members of the immunoglobulin superfamily, most notably the neural cell adhesion molecules L1, its close homologue CHL1, and NCAM and, in particular, its polysialic acid glycan moiety. Sufficient evidence is now available to justify the statement that these molecules are major players not only in nervous system development but also in the adult during neural repair and synaptic plasticity. Importantly, insights into the functions of these molecules in promoting or inhibiting functional recovery have allowed the design and assessment of therapeutic approaches in animal models of central nervous system injury that could prove to be applicable in clinical settings.
Why do memory abilities vary so greatly across individuals and cognitive domains? Although memory functions are highly heritable, what exactly is being genetically transmitted? Here we review evidence for the contribution of both common and partially independent inheritance of distinct aspects of memory function. We begin by discussing the assessment of long-term memory and its underlying neural and molecular basis. We then consider evidence for both specialist and generalist genes underlying individual variability in memory, indicating that carving memory into distinct subcomponents may yield important information regarding its genetic architecture. And finally we review evidence from both complex and single-gene disorders, which provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the genetic basis of human memory function.
Real-time fMRI permits simultaneous measurement and observation of brain activity during an ongoing task. One of the most challenging applications of real-time fMRI in neuroscientific and clinical research is the possibility of acquiring volitional control of localized brain activity using real-time fMRI-based neurofeedback protocols. Real-time fMRI allows the experimenter to noninvasively manipulate brain activity as an independent variable to observe the effects on behavior. Real-time fMRI neurofeedback studies demonstrated that learned control of the local brain activity leads to specific changes in behavior. Here, the authors describe the implementation and application of real-time fMRI with particular emphasis on the self-regulation of local brain activity and the investigation of brain-function relationships. Real-time fMRI represents a promising new approach to cognitive neuroscience that could complement traditional neuroimaging techniques by providing more causal insights into the functional role of circumscribed brain regions in behavior.
The surgical management of cervical spine metastases continues to evolve and improve. The authors provide an overview of the various techniques for anterior reconstruction and stabilization of the subaxial cervical spine after corpectomy for spinal metastases. Vertebral body reconstruction can be accomplished using a variety of materials such as bone autograft/allograft, polymethylmethacrylate, interbody spacers, and/or cages with or without supplemental anterior cervical plating. In some instances, posterior instrumentation is needed for additional stabilization.



Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive weakness, muscle atrophy, and paralysis due to the loss of upper and lower motoneurons (MNs). Sigma-1 receptor (sigma-1R) activation promotes neuroprotection after ischemic and traumatic injuries to the central nervous system. We recently reported that sigma-1R agonist (PRE-084) improves the survival of MNs after root avulsion injury in rats. Moreover, a mutation of the sigma-1R leading to frontotemporal lobar degeneration/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) was recently described in human patients. In the present study, we analyzed the potential therapeutic effect of the sigma-1R agonist (PRE-084) in the SOD1(G93A) mouse model of ALS. Mice were daily administered with PRE-084 (0.25 mg/kg) from 8 to 16 weeks of age. Functional outcome was assessed by electrophysiological tests and computerized analysis of locomotion. Histological, immunohistochemical analyses and Western blot of the spinal cord were performed. PRE-084 administration from 8 weeks of age improved the function of MNs, which was manifested by maintenance of the amplitude of muscle action potentials and locomotor behavior, and preserved neuromuscular connections and MNs in the spinal cord. Moreover, it extended survival in both female and male mice by more than 15 %. Delayed administration of PRE-084 from 12 weeks of age also significantly improved functional outcome and preservation of the MNs. There was an induction of protein kinase C-specific phosphorylation of the NR1 subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in SOD1(G93A) animals, and a reduction of the microglial reactivity compared with untreated mice. PRE-084 exerts a dual therapeutic contribution, modulating NMDA Ca(2+) influx to protect MNs, and the microglial reactivity to ameliorate the MN environment. In conclusion, sigma-1R agonists, such as PRE-084, may be promising candidates for a therapeutical strategy of ALS.
Currently, there is no effective treatment for neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Thus, a major focus of neuroscience research is to examine the mechanisms involved in neuronal loss in order to identify potential drug targets. Recent results indicate that DNA damage and re-entry into the cell cycle may constitute a common pathway in apoptosis in neurological diseases. The role of the cell cycle in such disorders is supported by data on the brain of patients who showed an increase in cell-cycle protein expression. Indeed, studies performed in neuronal cell preparations indicate that oxidative stress could be the main mechanism responsible for cell cycle re-entry. DNA damage and repair after oxidative stress may activate the enzyme ataxia telangiectasia mutated, which is a cell-cycle regulator. Once the cell cycle is activated, the increase in the expression of transcription factor E2F-1 could induce neuronal apoptosis. Furthermore, the potential routes involved in E2F-1 induced apoptosis could be p53-dependent or p53-independent. Under this E2F-1 hypothesis of cell death, multiple mitochondria-dependent pathways may be activated, including caspase and caspase-independent signaling cascades. Finally, given that cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitory drugs have neuroprotective and anti-apoptotic effects in experimental models, their potential application for the treatment of neurological disorders should be taken into account.
Over the past two decades, key advancements have been made in understanding the complex pathology that occurs following not only high levels of arsenic exposure (&gt;1 ppm) but also levels previously considered to be low (&lt;100 ppb). Past studies have characterized the deleterious effects of arsenic on the various functions of cardiovascular, pulmonary, immunological, respiratory, endocrine and neurological systems. Other research has demonstrated an elevated risk of a multitude of cancers and increased rates of psychopathology, even at very low levels of arsenic exposure. The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis represents a multisite integration center that regulates a wide scope of biological and physiological processes: breakdown within this system can generate an array of far-reaching effects, making it an intriguing candidate for arsenic-mediated damage. Using a mouse model, we examined the effects of perinatal exposure to 50 ppb sodium arsenate on the functioning of the HPA axis through the assessment of corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF), proopiomelanocortin (Pomc) mRNA, adrenocorticotrophin hormone (ACTH), corticosterone (CORT), 11-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase Type 1 (11-HSD 1), and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) protein and mRNA. Compared to controls, we observed that the perinatal arsenic-exposed offspring exhibit an increase in hypothalamic CRF, altered CORT secretion both at baseline and in response to a stressor, decreased hippocampal 11-HSD 1 and altered subcellular GR distribution in the hypothalamus. These data indicate significant HPA axis impairment at post-natal day 35 resulting from perinatal exposure to 50 ppb sodium arsenate. Our findings suggest that the dysregulation of this critical regulatory axis could underlie important molecular and cognitive pathology observed following exposure to arsenic.
Walnut is extensively used in traditional medicine for treatment of various ailments. It is described as an anticancer, anti-inflammatory, blood purifier and antioxidant agent. In this study, we investigated whether or not Walnut could protect neurons against cisplatin-induced neurotoxicity in rats. Dietary walnut (6%) was assessed for its neuroprotective effects through the alteration in performance of hippocampus- and cerebellum-related behaviors following chronic cisplatin treatment (5 mg/kg/week for 5 consecutive weeks) in male rats. We also evaluated the effect of cisplatin and walnut administration on nociception. We showed that exposure of adolescent rats to cisplatin resulted in significant decrease in explorative behaviors and memory retention. Walnut consumption improved memory and motor abilities in cisplatin treated rats, while walnut alone did not show any significant changes in these abilities compared to saline. Cisplatin increased latency of response to nociception, and walnut reversed this effect of cisplatin. We conclude that walnuts in the diet following anticancer drugs such as cisplatin might have a protective effect against cisplatin-induced disruptions in motor and cognitive function. However, further studies are needed to elucidate the exact mechanisms of this protective effect of walnut and to explore underlying mechanisms.
Nerve agents are deadly threats to military and civilian populations around the world. Nerve agents cause toxicity to peripheral and central sites through the irreversible inhibition of acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme that metabolizes acetylcholine. Excessive acetylcholine accumulation in synapses results in status epilepticus in the central nervous system. Prolonged status epilepticus leads to brain damage, neurological dysfunction and poor outcome. Anticonvulsants are effective but must be given rapidly following exposure. Because these agents cause mass casualties, effective neuroprotective agents are needed to reduce brain damage and improve cognitive outcome. -Linolenic acid is an omega-3 fatty acid that is found in vegetable products and has no known side effects. -Linolenic acid is neuroprotective against kainic acid-induced brain damage in vivo, but its neuroprotective efficacy against nerve agents is unknown. -Linolenic acid also exerts anti-depressant and anti-inflammatory activities and enhances synaptic plasticity in vivo. These properties make this polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) a potential candidate against nerve agent-induced neuropathology. Here we show that -linolenic acid is neuroprotective against soman-induced neuropathology in either a pretreatment or post-treatment paradigm. We also show that subcutaneous injection of -linolenic acid shows greater neuroprotective efficacy compared with intravenous injection in a brain region-specific manner.
Chronic exposure to aerosolized manganese induces a neurological disorder that includes extrapyramidal motor symptoms and cognitive impairment. Inhaled manganese can bypass the blood-brain barrier and reach the central nervous system by transport down the olfactory nerve to the brain's olfactory bulb. However, the mechanism by which Mn disrupts neural function remains unclear. Here we used optical imaging techniques to visualize exocytosis in olfactory nerve terminals in vivo in the mouse olfactory bulb. Acute Mn exposure via intranasal instillation of 2-200 g MnCl(2) solution caused a dose-dependent reduction in odorant-evoked neurotransmitter release, with significant effects at as little as 2 g MnCl(2) and a 90% reduction compared to vehicle controls with a 200 g exposure. This reduction was also observed in response to direct electrical stimulation of the olfactory nerve layer in the olfactory bulb, demonstrating that Mn's action is occurring centrally, not peripherally. This is the first direct evidence that Mn intoxication can disrupt neurotransmitter release, and is consistent with previous work suggesting that chronic Mn exposure limits amphetamine-induced dopamine increases in the basal ganglia despite normal levels of dopamine synthesis (Guilarte et al., J Neurochem 2008). The commonality of Mn's action between glutamatergic neurons in the olfactory bulb and dopaminergic neurons in the basal ganglia suggests that a disruption of neurotransmitter release may be a general consequence wherever Mn accumulates in the brain and could underlie its pleiotropic effects.
In addition to cancer imaging, (13) C-MRS of hyperpolarized pyruvate has also demonstrated utility for the investigation of cardiac metabolism and ischemic heart disease. Although no adverse effects have yet been reported for doses commonly used in vivo, high substrate concentrations have lead to supraphysiological pyruvate levels that can affect the underlying metabolism and should be considered when interpreting results. With lactate serving as an important energy source for the heart and physiological lactate levels one to two orders of magnitude higher than for pyruvate, hyperpolarized lactate could potentially be used as an alternative to pyruvate for probing cardiac metabolism. In this study, hyperpolarized [1-(13) C]lactate was used to acquire time-resolved spectra from the healthy rat heart in vivo and to measure dichloroacetate (DCA)-modulated changes in flux through pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH). Both primary oxidation of lactate to pyruvate and subsequent conversion of pyruvate to alanine and bicarbonate could reliably be detected. Since DCA stimulates the activity of PDH through inhibition of PDH kinase, a more than 2.5-fold increase in bicarbonate-to-substrate ratio was found after administration of DCA, similar to the effect when using [1-(13) C]pyruvate as the substrate.

The structure specific flap endonuclease 1 (FEN1) plays an essential role in long-patch base excision repair (BER) and in DNA replication. We have generated a fluorescently tagged FEN1 expressing mouse which allows monitoring the localization and kinetics of FEN1 in response to DNA damage in living cells and tissues. The expression of FEN1, which is tagged at its C-terminal end with enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (FEN1-YFP), is under control of the endogenous Fen1 transcriptional regulatory elements. In line with its role in processing of Okazaki fragments during DNA replication, we found that FEN1-YFP expression is mainly observed in highly proliferating tissue. Moreover, the FEN1-YFP fusion protein allowed us to investigate repair kinetics in cells challenged with local and global DNA damage. In vivo multi-photon fluorescence microscopy demonstrates rapid localization of FEN1 to local laser-induced DNA damage sites in nuclei, providing evidence of a highly mobile protein that accumulates fast at DNA lesion sites with high turnover rate. Inhibition of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) disrupts FEN1 accumulation at sites of DNA damage, indicating that PARP1 is required for FEN1 recruitment to DNA repair intermediates in BER.
We have developed a new method for introducing large numbers of isolated mitochondria into tissue culture cells. Direct microinjection of mitochondria into typical mammalian cells has been found to be impractical due to the large size of mitochondria relative to microinjection needles. To circumvent this problem, we inject isolated mitochondria through appropriately sized microinjection needles into rodent oocytes or single-cell embryos, which are much larger than tissue culture cells, and then withdraw a 'mitocytoplast' cell fragment containing the injected mitochondria using a modified holding needle. These mitocytoplasts are then fused to recipient cells through viral-mediated membrane fusion and the injected mitochondria are transferred into the cytoplasm of the tissue culture cell. Since mouse oocytes contain large numbers of mouse mitochondria that repopulate recipient mouse cells along with the injected mitochondria, we used either gerbil single-cell embryos or rat oocytes to package injected mouse mitochondria. We found that the gerbil mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is not maintained in recipient rho0 mouse cells and that rat mtDNA initially replicated but was soon completely replaced by the injected mouse mtDNA, and so with both procedures mouse cells homoplasmic for the mouse mtDNA in the injected mitochondria were obtained.
The expression of cell adhesion molecule L1 has been identified in a vast spectrum of tumors; however, its expression pattern with regard to tumor type is rarely discussed. In the present study, we studied L1 levels in human glioblastomas and neuroblastomas, and compared the expression and secretion of L1 in human glioblastoma U87-MG and neuroblastoma SK-N-SH cells. Immunofluorescence staining revealed different grades of L1 staining in human glioblastoma and neuroblastoma samples. In U87-MG cells, full-length L1 was weakly detected in cell lysates (CLs), while greater levels of abundant soluble L1 were confined in conditioned culture medium (CCM). In contrast, higher levels of full-length L1 were confined in SK-N-SH CLs, while almost no soluble forms of L1 were detected in CCM. Our data indicates various expression patterns of L1 in U87-MG and SK-N-SH cells, which may underlie the different malignancies of the two neural tumor types and further stress the importance of soluble L1-mediated signaling pathways in cell malignancy.
Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) continues to have a poor patient prognosis despite optimal standard of care. Glioma stem cells (GSCs) have been implicated as the presumed cause of tumor recurrence and resistance to therapy. With this in mind, we screened a diverse chemical library of 2,000 compounds to identify therapeutic agents that inhibit GSC proliferation and therefore have the potential to extend patient survival. High-throughput screens (HTS) identified 78 compounds that repeatedly inhibited cellular proliferation, of which 47 are clinically approved for other indications and 31 are experimental drugs. Several compounds (such as digitoxin, deguelin, patulin and phenethyl caffeate) exhibited high cytotoxicity, with half maximal inhibitory concentrations (IC50) in the low nanomolar range. In particular, the FDA approved drug for the treatment of alcoholism, disulfiram (DSF), was significantly potent across multiple patient samples (IC50 of 31.1 nM). The activity of DSF was potentiated by copper (Cu), which markedly increased GSC death. DSF-Cu inhibited the chymotrypsin-like proteasomal activity in cultured GSCs, consistent with inactivation of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway and the subsequent induction of tumor cell death. Given that DSF is a relatively non-toxic drug that can penetrate the blood-brain barrier, we suggest that DSF should be tested (as either a monotherapy or as an adjuvant) in pre-clinical models of human GBM. Data also support targeting of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway as a therapeutic approach in the treatment of GBM.

Lacrimal ductal cysts are uncommon lesions that can occur everywhere in and around the eye. Ectopic location is very rare and can be misleading in the differential diagnosis of orbital masses. In this article we present the case of a 61-year-old-man with a medial intraconal ductal cyst of his right orbit. The patient was successfully treated with surgical excision.
This systematic review aims to establish which cognitive domains are associated with falls or falls risk. Recent evidence suggests that impaired cognition increases seniors' risk of falling. The purpose of this review was to identify the cognitive domains that are significantly associated with falls or falls risk in older adults. We conducted a systematic review of peer-reviewed journal articles published from 1948 to present, focusing on studies investigating different domains of cognitive function and their association with falls or falls risk in adults aged 60 years or older. In accordance with Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines, we completed a comprehensive search of MEDLINE, PubMed, and EMBASE databases to identify studies examining the association between cognitive function and falls or falls risk. With an expert in the field, we developed a quality assessment questionnaire to rate the quality of the studies included in this systematic review. Twenty-five studies were included in the review. We categorized studies based on two related but distinct cognitive domains: (1) executive functions or (2) dual-task ability. Twelve studies reported a significant association between executive functions and falls risk. Thirteen studies reported that dual-task performance is a predictor of falls or falls risk in older adults. Three studies did not report an association between cognition and falls risk. Consistent evidence demonstrated that executive functions and dual-task performance were highly associated with falls or falls risk. The results from this review will aid healthcare professionals and researchers in developing innovative screening and treatment strategies for mitigating falls risk by targeting specific cognitive domains.



Cannabinoids are emerging as potential options for neuropathic pain treatment. This study evaluated an oral cannabinoid, nabilone, in the treatment of refractory human diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPN). We performed a single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, flexible-dose study with an enriched enrollment randomized withdrawal design. DPN subjects with a pain score  4 (0-10 scale) continued regular pain medications and were administered single-blinded adjuvant nabilone for 4 weeks. Subjects achieving  30% pain relief (26/37) were then randomized and treated with either flexible-dose nabilone 1-4 mg/day (n=13) or placebo (n=13) in a further 5-week double-blind treatment period, with 30% (11/37) of subjects deemed run-in-phase nabilone nonresponders. For nabilone run-in-phase responders, there was an improvement in the change in mean end-point neuropathic pain vs placebo (mean treatment reduction of 1.27; 95% confidence interval 2.29-0.25, P=0.02), with an average nabilone dose at end point of 2.9  1.1mg/day, and improvements from baseline for the anxiety subscale of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, the Medical Outcomes Study sleep scale problems index, and the European Quality of Life-5-Domains index score (each P&lt;0.05). Nabilone run-in-phase responders reported greater global end-point improvement with nabilone than with placebo (100% vs 31%; P&lt;0.05). Medication-related confusion led to discontinuation in 2/37 subjects during single-blind nabilone treatment. Potential unmasking occurred in 62% of both groups. Flexible-dose nabilone 1-4 mg/day was effective in relieving DPN symptoms, improving disturbed sleep, quality of life, and overall patient status. Nabilone was well tolerated and successful as adjuvant in patients with DPN.
Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) is a target-derived neurotrophic factor that regulates sensory neuronal survival and growth. Here we report that NT-3 plays a critical permissive role in cutaneous sensory nerve sprouting that contributes to pain and sensitivity following skin wounding in young animals. Sensory terminal sprouting in neonatally wounded dermis and epidermis is accompanied by increased NT-3 transcription, NT-3 protein levels, and NT-3 protein release 3-7 days post skin injury in newborn rats and mice. Functional blockade of NT-3 activity with specific antibodies greatly reduces sensory neurite outgrowth induced by wounded skin, but not by nave skin, in dorsal root ganglion/skin co-cultures. The requirement for NT-3 for sensory terminal sprouting in vivo is confirmed by the absence of wound-induced hyperinnervation in heterozygous transgenic mice (NT-3(+/-)lacZ). We conclude that upregulation of NT-3 in neonatally wounded skin is a critical factor mediating the sensory nerve sprouting that underlies hypersensitivity and pain following skin injury.

A vast diversity of salient cues is sensed by numerous classes of primary sensory neurons, defined by specific neuropeptides, ion channels, or cytoskeletal proteins. Recent evidence has demonstrated a correlation between the expression of some of these molecular markers and transmission of signals related to distinct sensory modalities (eg, heat, cold, pressure). Voltage-gated sodium channel Na(v)1.8 has been reported to be preferentially expressed in small-diameter unmyelinated sensory afferents specialized for the detection of noxious stimuli (nociceptors), and Na(v)1.8-Cre mice have been widely used to investigate gene function in nociceptors. However, the identity of neurons in which Cre-mediated recombination occurs in these animals has not been resolved, and whether expression of Na(v)1.8 in these neurons is dynamic during development is not known, rendering interpretation of conditional knockout mouse phenotypes problematic. Here, we used genetics, immunohistochemistry, electrophysiology, and calcium imaging to precisely characterize the expression of Na(v)1.8 in the peripheral nervous system. We demonstrate that 75% of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons express Na(v)1.8-Cre, including &gt;90% of neurons expressing markers of nociceptors and, unexpectedly, a large population (40%) of neurons with myelinated A fibers. Furthermore, analysis of DRG neurons' central and peripheral projections revealed that Na(v)1.8-Cre is not restricted to nociceptors but is also expressed by at least 2 types of low-threshold mechanoreceptors essential for touch sensation, including those with C and A fibers. Our results indicate that Na(v)1.8 underlies electrical activity of sensory neurons subserving multiple functional modalities, and call for cautious interpretation of the phenotypes of Na(v)1.8-Cre-driven conditional knockout mice.
The possible cytotoxic effects of vancomycin and its complex with beta-cyclodextrin (-CD) on human glial cell line (CRL 8621) were studied accordingly by means of MTS assay. The cultured cells were incubated with various concentrations of vancomycin, -CD as well as -CD/vancomycin complex ranging from 4.69 to 300 ug/ml. A linear dose-dependency cytotoxicity followed by hermetic-like biphasic dose-dependence was observed after incubation period of 72 hours. In general, significant increase (p&lt;0.001) of cell proliferation was observed at lower concentrations: &lt;18.75 g/ml for cells treated with -CD and their complex while &lt; 9.38 g/ml for cells treated with vancomycin. In contrary, regardless of the treatments given, significant (p&lt;0.001) reduce in cell survival was found at higher concentrations &gt;150 g/ml. In particular, 50 % inhibitory in vitro was achieved at the concentrations of 115.95 g/ml (for -CD), 116.48 g/ml (for vancomycin) and 115.44 g/ml (for -CD/vancomycin complex).
The role of insulin-like growth factors and their regulatory proteins (IGFBP isoforms) in gliomas, particularly glioblastoma, has been a subject of active research in recent years. There is paucity of literature on their expression and impact on clinical outcome in anaplastic astrocytomas. To evaluate the expression patterns of IGFBP isoforms in anaplastic astrocytoma and correlate with clinical outcome, a retrospective study of 53 adult patients operated for supratentorial lobar anaplastic astrocytoma was performed. The protein expression of IGFBP isoforms (IGFBP-2, -3, -5 and -7), was studied by immunohistochemistry on all samples. The patients were followed up and outcome was documented. The median age at presentation in the present study was 35 years. The pattern of staining was intra cytoplasmic, homogenous and diffuse for IGFBP-2, -3 and -5 and granular for IGFBP-7. IGFBP-2 expression was significantly low in anaplastic astrocytoma as compared to other isoforms (P &lt; 0.001). IGFBP-3 expression was higher than the other isoforms. However, its' expression correlated with favorable overall survival and demonstrated a trend towards significance on univariate analysis. The present study is the first of its kind to describe comprehensively the pattern of expression of IGFBP isoforms (IGFBP-2, -3, -5 and -7) in anaplastic astrocytomas. IGFBP-2 and IGFBP-3 expression patterns and correlation to prognosis were distinct in anaplastic astrocytoma patients, contradictory to what has been reported in glioblastoma, thus giving further evidence that anaplastic astrocytomas are molecularly distinct from glioblastoma.
It has been shown that orexin A in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) is necessary for development of morphine place preference. Additionally, D1 and D2 dopamine receptors in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) have critical roles in motivation and reward. However, little is known about the function of orexin in conditioned place preference (CPP) in rats and involvement of D1/D2 receptors in the NAc. In the present study, we investigated the effect of direct administration of orexin A into the VTA, and examined the role of intra-accumbal dopamine receptors in development (acquisition) of reward-related behaviors in the rats. Adult male Wistar rats were unilaterally implanted by two separate cannulae into the VTA and NAc. The CPP paradigm was used, and, conditioning score and locomotor activity were recorded by Ethovision software. The results showed that unilateral intra-VTA administration of orexin A (27, 53 and 107 ng/0.3 l saline) during conditioning phase induced CPP in a dose-dependent manner. The most effective dose of intra-VTA orexin-A in eliciting CPP was 107 ng. However, intra-NAc administration of SCH 23390 (0.25, 1 and 4 g/0.5 l saline), a D1 receptor antagonist, and sulpiride (0.25, 1 and 4 g/0.5 l DMSO), a D2 receptor antagonist, inhibited the development of orexin-induced CPP. The inhibitory effect of D2 but not D1 receptor antagonist was exerted in a dose-dependent manner. It is supposed that the activation of VTA dopaminergic neuron by orexin impresses the D2 receptors more than D1 receptors in the NAc.
Based on the low detection rates of participants who incidentally encoded crime-related details in a realistic mock crime scenario, Bradley, Malik and Cullen (2011) argued that laboratory studies overestimate the validity of the Concealed Information Test. Studies from our group using naturalistic mock crime scenarios, multiple physiological response measures and improved scoring and classification techniques suggest that such a general conclusion is not warranted.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to investigate brain activation associated with a facial expression identification task (stimuli were full emotional, half emotional, or ambiguous in both happy and sad context) in 10 men and 10 women, fMRI assessment revealed significant interaction of sex x context in the right putamen for the ambiguous faces. Women showed a greater BOLD response to ambiguous facial expression in the sad context than in the happy context, while men showed a greater response in the happy context. Further, women showed a greater BOLD response than did men to ambiguous facial expression in the sad context, while men showed a greater response than women in the happy context. These results suggest that sad and happy context differentially modulate right putamen activation related to processing of ambiguous facial expression in men and women.

Antagonists of -adrenergic receptors (-ARs) have previously been demonstrated to impair long-term memory in a variety of animal behavioral paradigms. Surprisingly little is known about the ability of -ARs to modulate initial memory formation in drug conditioning paradigms. The current study examined whether the post-training administration of the -AR antagonist, propranolol, would disrupt single-trial cocaine-induced sensitization. Rats received 10 mg/kg propranolol immediately following a 30-min cocaine or vehicle exposure in a conditioning context and were later tested for their locomotor response to a cocaine challenge. Rats that received propranolol following cocaine conditioning showed an impairment of locomotor sensitization during testing. However, this effect was only seen in animals with an initial sensitivity to the locomotor effects of cocaine. Rats that failed to show a locomotor response to cocaine during conditioning were not affected by propranolol. We discuss the implications of these findings as they relate to drug conditioning and memory consolidation studies.
Preclinical studies suggest that cost/benefit decision-making involves interactions between adenosine and dopamine (DA). In rats, DA depletion decreases willingness to incur effort costs, while adenosine antagonism reverses these effects, likely by increasing DA transmission. Caffeine is a non-selective adenosine antagonist commonly used to facilitate effortful tasks, and thus may affect decisions involving effort costs in humans. The current study examined acute effects of 200 mg of caffeine on willingness to exert effort for monetary rewards at varying levels of reward value and reward probability, in young adult light caffeine users. Based on previous findings with amphetamine, we predicted that caffeine would increase willingness to exert effort. At separate sessions, 23 healthy normal adults received placebo or 200 mg caffeine under counterbalanced double-blind conditions, then completed the effort expenditure for rewards task (EEfRT). Measures of subjective and cardiovascular effects were obtained at regular intervals. Caffeine produced small but significant subjective and cardiovascular effects, and sped psychomotor performance on the EEfRT. Caffeine did not alter willingness to exert effort, except in high cardiovascular responders to caffeine, in whom it decreased willingness to exert effort. These results were contrary to our predictions, but consistent with rodent studies suggesting that moderate doses of caffeine alone do not affect effort, but rather only influence effort in the context of DA antagonism. Our results demonstrate that psychomotor speeding and decisional effects on the EEfRT are dissociable, providing additional evidence for the EEfRT as a specific measure of effort-based decision-making. This study provides a starting point for exploring contributions of the adenosine system to motivation in humans.
Psychiatric patients frequently exhibit long-chain n-3 (LCn-3) fatty acid deficits and elevated triglyceride (TAG) production following chronic exposure to second generation antipsychotics (SGAs). Emerging evidence suggests that SGAs and LCn-3 fatty acids have opposing effects on stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 (SCD1), which plays a pivotal role in TAG biosynthesis. Here we evaluated whether low LCn-3 fatty acid status would augment elevations in rat liver and plasma TAG concentrations following chronic treatment with the SGA risperidone (RSP), and evaluated relationships with hepatic SCD1 expression and activity indices. In rats maintained on the n-3 fatty acid-fortified (control) diet, chronic RSP treatment significantly increased liver SCD1 mRNA and activity indices (18:1/18:0 and 16:1/16:0 ratios), and significantly increased liver, but not plasma, TAG concentrations. Rats maintained on the n-3 deficient diet exhibited significantly lower liver and erythrocyte LCn-3 fatty acid levels, and associated elevations in LCn-6/LCn-3 ratio. In n-3 deficient rats, RSP-induced elevations in liver SCD1 mRNA and activity indices (18:1/18:0 and 16:1/16:0 ratios) and liver and plasma TAG concentrations were significantly greater than those observed in RSP-treated controls. Plasma glucose levels were not altered by diet or RSP, and body weight was lower in RSP- and VEH-treated n-3 deficient rats. These preclinical data support the hypothesis that low n-3 fatty acid status exacerbates RSP-induced hepatic steatosis by augmenting SCD1 expression and activity.
A large number of pharmacological studies have used capsaicin as a tool to activate many physiological systems, with an emphasis on pain research but also including functions such as the cardiovascular system, the respiratory system, and the urinary tract. Understanding the actions of capsaicin led to the discovery its receptor, transient receptor potential (TRP) vanilloid subfamily member 1 (TRPV1), part of the superfamily of TRP receptors, sensing external events. This receptor is found on key fine sensory afferents, and so the use of capsaicin to selectively activate pain afferents has been exploited in animal studies, human psychophysics, and imaging studies. Its effects depend on the dose and route of administration and may include sensitization, desensitization, withdrawal of afferent nerve terminals, or even overt death of afferent fibers. The ability of capsaicin to generate central hypersensitivity has been valuable in understanding the consequences and mechanisms behind enhanced central processing of pain. In addition, capsaicin has been used as a therapeutic agent when applied topically, and antagonists of the TRPV1 receptor have been developed. Overall, the numerous uses for capsaicin are clear; hence, the rationale of this review is to bring together and discuss the different types of studies that exploit these actions to shed light upon capsaicin working both as a tool to understand pain but also as a treatment for chronic pain. This review will discuss the various actions of capsaicin and how it lends itself to these different purposes.
Brain cells are continuously exposed to corticosteroid hormones, although the levels vary (e.g., after stress). Corticosteroids alter neural activity via two receptor types, mineralocorticoid (MR) and glucocorticoid receptors (GR). These receptors regulate gene transcription but also, as we now know, act nongenomically. Via nongenomic pathways, MRs enhance and GRs suppress neural activity. In the hypothalamus, inhibitory GR effects contribute to negative feedback regulation of the stress axis. Nongenomic MR actions are also important extrahypothalamically and help organisms to immediately select an appropriate response strategy. Via genomic mechanisms, corticosteroid actions in the basolateral amygdala and ventral-most part of the cornu ammonis 1 hippocampal area are generally excitatory, providing an extended window for encoding of emotional aspects of a stressful event. GRs in hippocampal and prefrontal pyramidal cells increase surface expression of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors and strengthen glutamatergic signaling through pathways partly overlapping with those involved in long-term potentiation. This raises the threshold for subsequent induction of synaptic potentiation and promotes long-term depression. Synapses activated during stress are thus presumably strengthened but protected against excitatory inputs reaching the cells later. This restores higher cognitive control and promotes, for example, consolidation of stress-related contextual information. When an organism experiences stress early in life or repeatedly in adulthood, the ability to induce synaptic potentiation is strongly reduced and the likelihood to induce depression enhanced, even under rest. Treatment with antiglucocorticoids can ameliorate cellular effects after chronic stress and thus provide an interesting lead for treatment of stress-related disorders.
Evidence for a significant role and impact of purinergic signaling in normal and diseased airways is now beyond dispute. The present review intends to provide the current state of knowledge of the involvement of purinergic pathways in the upper and lower airways and lungs, thereby differentiating the involvement of different tissues, such as the epithelial lining, immune cells, airway smooth muscle, vasculature, peripheral and central innervation, and neuroendocrine system. In addition to the vast number of well illustrated functions for purinergic signaling in the healthy respiratory tract, increasing data pointing to enhanced levels of ATP and/or adenosine in airway secretions of patients with airway damage and respiratory diseases corroborates the emerging view that purines act as clinically important mediators resulting in either proinflammatory or protective responses. Purinergic signaling has been implicated in lung injury and in the pathogenesis of a wide range of respiratory disorders and diseases, including asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, inflammation, cystic fibrosis, lung cancer, and pulmonary hypertension. These ostensibly enigmatic actions are based on widely different mechanisms, which are influenced by the cellular microenvironment, but especially the subtypes of purine receptors involved and the activity of distinct members of the ectonucleotidase family, the latter being potential protein targets for therapeutic implementation.
The analysis of dynamic dependencies in complex systems such as the brain helps to understand how emerging properties arise from interactions. Here we propose an information-theoretic framework to analyze the dynamic dependencies in multivariate time-evolving systems. This framework constitutes a fully multivariate extension and unification of previous approaches based on bivariate or conditional mutual information and Granger causality or transfer entropy. We define multi-information measures that allow us to study the global statistical structure of the system as a whole, the total dependence between subsystems, and the temporal statistical structure of each subsystem. We develop a stationary and a nonstationary formulation of the framework. We then examine different decompositions of these multi-information measures. The transfer entropy naturally appears as a term in some of these decompositions. This allows us to examine its properties not as an isolated measure of interdependence but in the context of the complete framework. More generally we use causal graphs to study the specificity and sensitivity of all the measures appearing in these decompositions to different sources of statistical dependence arising from the causal connections between the subsystems. We illustrate that there is no straightforward relation between the strength of specific connections and specific terms in the decompositions. Furthermore, causal and noncausal statistical dependencies are not separable. In particular, the transfer entropy can be nonmonotonic in dependence on the connectivity strength between subsystems and is also sensitive to internal changes of the subsystems, so it should not be interpreted as a measure of connectivity strength. Altogether, in comparison to an analysis based on single isolated measures of interdependence, this framework is more powerful to analyze emergent properties in multivariate systems and to characterize functionally relevant changes in the dynamics.

A 60-year-old man presented with an acute, pruritic, erythematous rash associated with marked hypereosinophilia (2.3410(9)/l (0.04-0.40)). There was eosinophilic infiltration on hepatic, bone marrow and lymph node biopsies, with multiple lung nodules and mild splenomegaly. However, extensive investigation excluded parasitic or bacterial causes, specific allergens or the Fip1L1 mutation seen in myeloproliferative hypereosinophilia. Six months into the illness, he developed an acute, left, complete lower motor neurone facial palsy over hours, and an acute right lower motor neurone facial palsy 2&amp;emsp14;weeks later, without recovery. Over the subsequent 3&amp;emsp14;months, he developed complex partial seizures, a transient 72-h non-epileptic encephalopathy and episodic vertigo with ataxia. Further investigation showed bilateral enhancement of the VII nerves and labyrinthis on gadolinium-enhanced MR brain scan, cerebrospinal fluid lymphocytosis and neurophysiological evidence of polyradicolopathy. His eosinophil count fell with corticosteroids, hydroxycarbamide, imatinib and ultimately mepolezumab, but without symptomatic improvement. Repeat lymph node biopsy showed Kaposi's sarcoma, leading to a diagnosis of HIV-1 infection with a modestly reduced CD4 count of 41310(6)/l (430-1690). Hypereosinophila and eosinophilic folliculitis are recognised features of advanced HIV infection, and transient bilateral facial palsy occasionally occurs at the time of seroconversion. This is the first report of a chronic bilateral facial palsy likely due to primary HIV infection, not occurring during seroconversion and in association with hypereosinophilia. This case emphasises the protean manifestations of HIV infection and the need for routine testing in atypical clinical presentations.
Memory consolidation refers to a slow process that stabilises a memory trace after initial acquisition of novel events. The consolidation theory posits that once a memory is stored in the brain, it remains fixed for the lifetime of the memory. However, compelling evidence has suggested that upon recall, memories can re-enter a state of transient instability, requiring further stabilisation to be available once again for recall. Since its rehabilitation in the past ten years, this process of reconsolidation of memory after recall stimulated intense debates in the field of cognitive neuroscience. In this review we compile this plentiful literature with a particular emphasis on some of the key questions that have emerged from the reconsolidation theory. We focus on tracing the characterisation of the boundary conditions that constrain the occurrence of memory reconsolidation. We also discuss accumulating evidence supporting the idea that reconsolidation, as implied by its definition, is not a mere repetition of consolidation. We review seminal studies that uncovered specific mechanisms recruited during reconsolidation that are not always crucially involved in consolidation. We next address the physiological significance of reconsolidation since several lines of evidence support the idea that reconsolidation, as opposed to consolidation, may offer a unique opportunity to update memories. We finally discuss recent evidence for or against the potential that the process of memory reconsolidation offers for ongoing efforts to develop novel strategies to combat pathogenic memories.
Patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) have increased rates of neurological soft signs (NSS) when compared to healthy controls. However, previous findings have been confounded by the presence of co-morbidity with disorders themselves associated with increased NSS, such as schizophrenia. Moreover, it remains unclear whether NSS in OCD reflect a vulnerability to this disorder. This study aimed to examine: 1) the severity of NSS in patients with OCD alone, in patients with OCD and co-morbid psychosis (schizophrenia or bipolar disorders), and in healthy controls; and b) whether unaffected first-degree relatives of patients with OCD also demonstrate a higher prevalence rate of NSS than healthy controls. NSS were assessed with the Cambridge Neurological Inventory (CNI) in 100 patients with OCD, 38 patients with OCD and psychosis (22 with bipolar disorders and 16 with schizophrenia), and 101 healthy controls. Forty-seven unaffected first-degree relatives of patients with OCD only were also administered the CNI. Patients with OCD showed significantly higher scores in motor coordination and total NSS than controls, and patients with OCD co-morbid with psychosis also showed significantly higher scores in motor coordination and total NSS than controls. Although there were no differences in NSS between patients with OCD only and OCD and psychosis as a whole, patients with OCD co-morbid with schizophrenia showed significantly higher scores in motor coordination than patients with OCD, patients with OCD and bipolar disorder, and healthy controls. Unaffected first-degree relatives only showed a higher prevalence rate than healthy controls in specific motor coordination signs, such as Opposition and Extinction. These findings suggest that patients with OCD exhibit more NSS than healthy controls, and that motor coordination signs may be even more extensive when OCD is co-morbid with psychosis. Some of these abnormalities may be indicative of a vulnerability to these disorders, as indicated by their presence in un-affected first-degree relatives.
Stress and the resulting increase in glucocorticoid levels have been implicated in the pathophysiology of depressive disorders. We investigated the effects of chronic restraint stress (CRS: 6 hours  28 days) on anxiety- and depression-like behaviors in rats and on the possible changes in glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression as well as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-dependent neural function in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). We observed significant reductions in body weight gain, food intake and sucrose preference from 1 week after the onset of CRS. In the 5th week of CRS, we conducted open-field (OFT), elevated plus-maze (EPM) and forced swim tests (FST). We observed a decrease in the number of entries into open arms during the EPM (anxiety-like behavior) and increased immobility during the FST (depression-like behavior). When the PFC was removed after CRS and subject to western blot analysis, the GR expression reduced compared with control, while the levels of BDNF and its receptors remained unchanged. Basal glutamate concentrations in PFC acute slice which were measured by high performance liquid chromatography were not influenced by CRS. However, BDNF-induced glutamate release was attenuated after CRS. These results suggest that reduced GR expression and altered BDNF function may be involved in chronic stress-induced anxiety--and depression-like behaviors.
Linoleic acid (LA) is the most abundant polyunsaturated fatty acid in human diets, a major component of human tissues, and the direct precursor to the bioactive oxidized LA metabolites (OXLAMs), 9- and 13 hydroxy-octadecadienoic acid (9- and 13-HODE) and 9- and 13-oxo-octadecadienoic acid (9- and 13-oxoODE). These four OXLAMs have been mechanistically linked to pathological conditions ranging from cardiovascular disease to chronic pain. Plasma OXLAMs, which are elevated in Alzheimer's dementia and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, have been proposed as biomarkers useful for indicating the presence and severity of both conditions. Because mammals lack the enzymatic machinery needed for de novo LA synthesis, the abundance of LA and OXLAMs in mammalian tissues may be modifiable via diet. To examine this issue in humans, we measured circulating LA and OXLAMs before and after a 12-week LA lowering dietary intervention in chronic headache patients. Lowering dietary LA significantly reduced the abundance of plasma OXLAMs, and reduced the LA content of multiple circulating lipid fractions that may serve as precursor pools for endogenous OXLAM synthesis. These results show that lowering dietary LA can reduce the synthesis and/or accumulation of oxidized LA derivatives that have been implicated in a variety of pathological conditions. Future studies evaluating the clinical implications of diet-induced OXLAM reductions are warranted.





Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) symptoms are manifested in social dynamics. In this study, the brain activity of eight child and adolescent patients diagnosed with ADHD was examined while they performed the Counting Stroop task and results were interpreted using social neuroscience premises. Brain activity was identified in frontal, parietal, and temporal regions related to the orienting system of attention and with linguistic, facial recognition, and mnemonic processes. Consistent with previous reports, these patients showed no activation in prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices related to the executive system of attention. Also, they manifested activation in the insular cortex involving interoceptive processes that may be associated with impulsiveness. Global brain activity involves a network formed during early development and includes experiential components such as learning of rules, reward systems, empathy, and decision making. An integrative assessment of ADHD should consider psychosocial and neurobiological causes integrated into an individual's own experiences assembled throughout life.
Humor is ubiquitous and often beneficial, but the conditions that elicit it have been debated for millennia. We examine two factors that jointly influence perceptions of humor: the degree to which a stimulus is a violation (tragedy vs. mishap) and one's perceived distance from the stimulus (far vs. close). Five studies show that tragedies (which feature severe violations) are more humorous when temporally, socially, hypothetically, or spatially distant, but that mishaps (which feature mild violations) are more humorous when psychologically close. Although prevailing theories of humor have difficulty explaining the interaction between severity and distance revealed in these studies, our results are consistent with the proposal that humor occurs when a violation simultaneously seems benign. This benign-violation account suggests that distance facilitates humor in the case of tragedies by reducing threat, but that closeness facilitates humor in the case of mishaps by maintaining some sense of threat.
Since the 19th century, it has been known that response latencies are longer for naming pictures than for reading words aloud. While several interpretations have been proposed, a common general assumption is that this difference stems from cognitive word-selection processes and not from articulatory processes. Here we show that, contrary to this widely accepted view, articulatory processes are also affected by the task performed. To demonstrate this, we used a procedure that to our knowledge had never been used in research on language processing: response-latency fractionating. Along with vocal onsets, we recorded the electromyographic (EMG) activity of facial muscles while participants named pictures or read words aloud. On the basis of these measures, we were able to fractionate the verbal response latencies into two types of time intervals: premotor times (from stimulus presentation to EMG onset), mostly reflecting cognitive processes, and motor times (from EMG onset to vocal onset), related to motor execution processes. We showed that premotor and motor times are both longer in picture naming than in reading, although than in reading, although articulation is already initiated in the latter measure. Future studies based on this new approach should bring valuable clues for a better understanding of the relation between the cognitive and motor processes involved in speech production.
There is a greater prevalence of neuroinflammatory diseases in females than males. Microglia, the major immunocompetent cells of the central nervous system, play a key role in neuroinflammation. We aimed to determine if inherent differences in toll-like receptor 4 mediated pro-inflammatory response in glia could possibly contribute to the skewed female prevalence of neuroinflammatory disorders. In addition, in order to identify if estradiol (E2), the major female sex steroid contributes to a heightened pro-inflammatory response, estradiol was added both in vivo and in vitro. Microglia and astrocytes were isolated from neonatal pups and stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in the presence and absence of E2. Hippocampal microglia were isolated from adult male and female rats and stimulated ex vivo with LPS. Male neonatal microglia and astrocytes produced greater IL-1 mRNA than females. However, when co-incubated with varying doses of estradiol (E2), the E2 produced anti-inflammatory effects in the male microglia but a pro-inflammatory effect in female microglia. LPS-induced IL-1 mRNA was attenuated by E2 in female but not male adult hippocampal microglia. However, females supplemented with E2 in vivo produced a potentiated IL-1 mRNA response. TLR4 mRNA was decreased by LPS in both microglia and astrocytes but was not affected by sex or E2. CD14 mRNA was increased by LPS and may be elevated more in females than males in microglia but not astrocytes. Therefore, sexual dimorphic differences do occur in both neonatal and adult microglia though maturity of the microglia at the time of isolation influences the pro-inflammatory response.



Neurodegenerative disorders are undoubtedly an increasing problem in the health sciences, given the increase of life expectancy and occasional vicious life style. Despite the fact that the mechanisms of such diseases are far from being completely understood, a large number of studies that derive from both the basic science and clinical approaches have contributed substantial data in that direction. In this review, it is discussed several frontiers of basic research on Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, in which research groups from three departments of the Institute of Biomedical Sciences of the University of So Paulo have been involved in a multidisciplinary effort. The main focus of the review involves the animal models that have been developed to study cellular and molecular aspects of those neurodegenerative diseases, including oxidative stress, insulin signaling and proteomic analyses, among others. We anticipate that this review will help the group determine future directions of joint research in the field and, more importantly, set the level of cooperation we plan to develop in collaboration with colleagues of the Nucleus for Applied Neuroscience Research that are mostly involved with clinical research in the same field.

For the last 40 years, schizophrenia has been considered to be the result primarily of a dysfunction in brain dopaminergic pathways. In this review, it is described and discussed findings concerning nitric oxide-mediated neurotransmission in schizophrenia. Studies were searched in PubMed, SciELO, and LILACS using the terms schizophrenia and nitric oxide plasma levels or nitric oxide serum levels, with no time limit. The reference lists of selected articles were also hand-searched for additional articles. From 15 potential reports, 10 were eligible to be included in the review and meta-analysis. These studies included a total of 505 patients with schizophrenia and 339 healthy volunteers. No significant difference was found between patients and healthy controls regarding total nitrite plasma/serum levels (effect size g = 0.285, 95%CI = -0.205 to 0.774, p = 0.254). However, when studies with patients under antipsychotic treatment were examined separately, there was a significant difference between patients and healthy volunteers (effect size g = 0.663, 95%CI = 0.365 to 0.961, p &lt; 0.001), showing that patients under treatment have higher levels of plasma/serum nitric oxide than controls. These results suggest that antipsychotics increase nitric oxide plasma/serum levels and that the nitrergic pathway would be a fertile target for the development of new treatments for patients with schizophrenia.



Balint's syndrome corresponds to the combination of optic ataxia, simultanagnosia and gaze apraxia. It generally results from a bilateral dysfunction of the posterior parietal cortex. Since its early descriptions the syndrome has been subject to many interpretations and controversies. In this article we will reconsider the current concept of Balint's syndrome. A first part will develop the clinical aspects, causes, description of symptoms, examination techniques and neuroanatomical correlations. In a second part, we will discuss how this syndrome can be included in the background of visual neurosciences, particularly through a visual attentional aspect. We will discuss the phenomenon of remapping and some recent data that may contribute to explain the pathophysiology of manifestations as optic ataxia, simultanagnosia or gaze apraxia.
Reading is at the core of most current cultural achievements, including literature and science. Cognitive neurosciences now allow us to understand how this crucial cultural construct, its operation, development and breakdown, is rooted in the biological constraints of brain function.
The pathogenesis and treatment paradigm for idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) are controversial. Transverse sinus stenosis is seen in the majority of patients with IIH and appears to play a role in the disease process. The debate continues as to whether transverse sinus stenosis is a primary or secondary process relative to raised intracranial pressure. While the role of transverse sinus stenosis in IIH pathogenesis remains controversial, modeling studies suggest that stent placement within a transverse sinus stenosis with a significant pressure gradient should decrease cerebral venous pressure, improve CSF resorption in the venous system, and thereby reduce intracranial (CSF) pressure, improving the symptoms of IIH and reducing papilledema. Beside the classical surgical treatments, venous sinus stenting could be a treatment option for many patients with IIH. However, additional work, preferably controlled prospective studies, needs to be performed to prove its safety and efficacy. The goal of this article is to review the current literature on dural venous sinus stenting.



Two studies assessed the role of self-compassion as a moderator of the relationship between physical health and subjective well-being in the elderly. In Study 1, 132 participants, ranging in age from 67-90 years, completed a questionnaire that assessed their perceptions of their physical health, self-compassion, and subjective well-being. Participants who were in good physical health had high subjective well-being regardless of their level of self-compassion. However, for participants with poorer physical health, self-compassion was associated with greater subjective well-being. In Study 2, 71 participants between the ages of 63 and 97 completed a questionnaire assessing self-compassion, well-being, and their willingness to use assistance for walking, hearing, and memory. Self-compassionate participants reported being less bothered by the use of assistance than those low in self-compassion, although the relationship between self-compassion and willingness to use assistive devices was mixed. These findings suggest that self-compassion is associated with well-being in later life and that interventions to promote self-compassion may improve quality of life among older adults.
In addition to its role in vision, light exerts strong effects on behavior. Its powerful role in the modulation of mood is well established, yet remains poorly understood. Much research has focused on the effects of light on circadian rhythms and subsequent interaction with alertness and depression. The recent discovery of a third photoreceptor, melanopsin, expressed in a subset of retinal ganglion cells, allows major improvement of our understanding of how photic information is processed. Light affects behavior in two ways, either indirectly through the circadian timing system, or directly through mechanisms that are independent of the circadian system. These latter effects have barely been studied in regard to mood, but recent investigations on the direct effects of light on sleep and alertness suggest additional pathways through which light could influence mood. Based on our recent findings, we suggest that light, via melanopsin, may exert its antidepressant effect through a modulation of the homeostatic process of sleep. Further research is needed to understand how these mechanisms interplay and how they contribute to the photic regulation of mood. Such research could improve therapeutic management of affective disorders and influence the management of societal lighting conditions.
Imitation is an important component of human social learning throughout life. Theoretical models and empirical data from anthropology and psychology suggest that people tend to imitate self-similar individuals, and that such imitation biases increase the adaptive value (e.g., self-relevance) of learned information. It is unclear, however, what neural mechanisms underlie people's tendency to imitate those similar to themselves. We focused on the own-gender imitation bias, a pervasive bias thought to be important for gender identity development. While undergoing fMRI, participants imitated own- and other-gender actors performing novel, meaningless hand signs; as control conditions, they also simply observed such actions and viewed still portraits of the same actors. Only the ventral and dorsal striatum, orbitofrontal cortex and amygdala were more active when imitating own- compared to other-gender individuals. A Bayesian analysis of the BrainMap neuroimaging database demonstrated that the striatal region preferentially activated by own-gender imitation is selectively activated by classical reward tasks in the literature. Taken together, these findings reveal a neurobiological mechanism associated with the own-gender imitation bias and demonstrate a novel role of reward-processing neural structures in social behavior.
It has long been argued that attitudes prepare the body to act. While early evidence suggested that evaluations (positive or negative) are rigidly linked to specific motor behaviors (approach or avoidant), recent behavioral evidence suggests that this linkage is context dependent. Here, we report that the neural circuitry mediating the relationship between evaluations and motor responses promotes flexibility in our embodiment of attitudes. In a behavioral study, stimulus-response relationships between evaluations and actions were rapidly conditioned. In a neuroimaging (functional magnetic resonance imaging) study, repetition suppression demonstrated that these relationships are formed in neural systems traditionally implicated in arbitrary sensorimotor mappings (i.e. the dorsal premotor cortex and posterior superior parietal lobule). These data provide the first neurophysiological evidence for attitude embodiment and demonstrate that relationships between evaluation and action are inherently malleable.
The influence of personality on the neural correlates of emotional processing is still not well characterized. We investigated the relationship between extraversion and neuroticism and emotional perception using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in a group of 23 young, healthy women. Using a parametric modulation approach, we examined how the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signal varied with the participants' ratings of arousal and valence, and whether levels of extraversion and neuroticism were related to these modulations. In particular, we wished to test Eysenck's biological theory of personality, which links high extraversion to lower levels of reticulothalamic-cortical arousal, and neuroticism to increased reactivity of the limbic system and stronger reactions to emotional arousal. Individuals high in neuroticism demonstrated reduced sustained activation in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and attenuated valence processing in the right temporal lobe while viewing emotional images, but an increased BOLD response to emotional arousal in the right medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). These results support Eysenck's theory, as well as our hypothesis that high levels of neuroticism are associated with attenuated reward processing. Extraversion was inversely related to arousal processing in the right cerebellum, but positively associated with arousal processing in the right insula, indicating that the relationship between extraversion and arousal is not as simple as that proposed by Eysenck.

Adult neurogenesis is regulated by a number of cellular players within the neurogenic niche. Astrocytes participate actively in brain development, regulation of the mature central nervous system (CNS), and brain plasticity. They are important regulators of the local environment in adult neurogenic niches through the secretion of diffusible morphogenic factors, such as Wnts. Astrocytes control the neurogenic niche also through membrane-associated factors, however, the identity of these factors and the mechanisms involved are largely unknown. In this study, we sought to determine the mechanisms underlying our earlier finding of increased neuronal differentiation of neural progenitor cells when cocultured with astrocytes lacking glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin (GFAP(-/-) Vim(-/-) ). We used primary astrocyte and neurosphere cocultures to demonstrate that astrocytes inhibit neuronal differentiation through a cell-cell contact. GFAP(-/-) Vim(-/-) astrocytes showed reduced endocytosis of Notch ligand Jagged1, reduced Notch signaling, and increased neuronal differentiation of neurosphere cultures. This effect of GFAP(-/-) Vim(-/-) astrocytes was abrogated in the presence of immobilized Jagged1 in a manner dependent on the activity of -secretase. Finally, we used GFAP(-/-) Vim(-/-) mice to show that in the absence of GFAP and vimentin, hippocampal neurogenesis under basal conditions as well as after injury is increased. We conclude that astrocytes negatively regulate neurogenesis through the Notch pathway, and endocytosis of Notch ligand Jagged1 in astrocytes and Notch signaling from astrocytes to neural stem/progenitor cells depends on the intermediate filament proteins GFAP and vimentin.









Altered brain serotonin activity is implicated in schizophrenia. We have previously shown differential involvement of serotonergic projections from the dorsal or median raphe nucleus in phencyclidine-induced hyperlocomotion in rats, a behavioral model of aspects of schizophrenia. Here we further investigated the effects of serotonergic lesions of the raphe nuclei on phencyclidine-induced hyperlocomotion by parallel assessment of Fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI), a marker of neuronal activation in the brain. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with pentobarbitone and stereotaxically microinjected with 5 g of the serotonergic neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT), into either the dorsal raphe (DRN) or median raphe nucleus (MRN). Two weeks after the surgery, rats with lesions of the MRN, but not those with lesions of the DRN, showed significant enhancement of the hyperlocomotion induced by injection of 2.5 mg/kg of phencyclidine. Rats with MRN lesions also showed significantly higher levels of FLI in the polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus in the dorsal hippocampus (PoDG) when compared with sham-operated controls. Rats with lesions of the DRN showed significantly higher levels of FLI in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). These results indicate that FLI in the PoDG, but not the NAcc, correlates with enhanced phencyclidine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in MRN-lesioned rats. These results support our previous studies suggesting a role of serotonergic projections from the MRN to the dorsal hippocampus in some of the symptoms of schizophrenia.
From the late 1950s until 1975, cognition was understood mainly as disembodied symbol manipulation in cognitive psychology, linguistics, artificial intelligence, and the nascent field of Cognitive Science. The idea of embodied cognition entered the field of Cognitive Linguistics at its beginning in 1975. Since then, cognitive linguists, working with neuroscientists, computer scientists, and experimental psychologists, have been developing a neural theory of thought and language (NTTL). Central to NTTL are the following ideas: (a) we think with our brains, that is, thought is physical and is carried out by functional neural circuitry; (b) what makes thought meaningful are the ways those neural circuits are connected to the body and characterize embodied experience; (c) so-called abstract ideas are embodied in this way as well, as is language. Experimental results in embodied cognition are seen not only as confirming NTTL but also explained via NTTL, mostly via the neural theory of conceptual metaphor. Left behind more than three decades ago is the old idea that cognition uses the abstract manipulation of disembodied symbols that are meaningless in themselves but that somehow constitute internal &quot;representations of external reality&quot; without serious mediation by the body and brain. This article uniquely explains the connections between embodied cognition results since that time and results from cognitive linguistics, experimental psychology, computational modeling, and neuroscience.
Following in a psychological and musicological tradition beginning with Leonard Meyer, and continuing through David Huron, we present a functional, cognitive account of the phenomenon of expectation in music, grounded in computational, probabilistic modeling. We summarize a range of evidence for this approach, from psychology, neuroscience, musicology, linguistics, and creativity studies, and argue that simulating expectation is an important part of understanding a broad range of human faculties, in music and beyond.
The vast majority of experimental studies of music to date have explored music in terms of the processes involved in the perception and cognition of complex sonic patterns that can elicit emotion. This paper argues that this conception of music is at odds both with recent Western musical scholarship and with ethnomusicological models, and that it presents a partial and culture-specific representation of what may be a generic human capacity. It argues that the cognitive sciences must actively engage with the problems of exploring music as manifested and conceived in the broad spectrum of world cultures, not only to elucidate the diversity of music in mind but also to identify potential commonalities that could illuminate the relationships between music and other domains of thought and behavior.
Perception of temporal patterns is fundamental to normal hearing, speech, motor control, and music. Certain types of pattern understanding are unique to humans, such as musical rhythm. Although human responses to musical rhythm are universal, there is much we do not understand about how rhythm is processed in the brain. Here, I consider findings from research into basic timing mechanisms and models through to the neuroscience of rhythm and meter. A network of neural areas, including motor regions, is regularly implicated in basic timing as well as processing of musical rhythm. However, fractionating the specific roles of individual areas in this network has remained a challenge. Distinctions in activity patterns appear between &quot;automatic&quot; and &quot;cognitively controlled&quot; timing processes, but the perception of musical rhythm requires features of both automatic and controlled processes. In addition, many experimental manipulations rely on participants directing their attention toward or away from certain stimulus features, and measuring corresponding differences in neural activity. Many temporal features, however, are implicitly processed whether attended to or not, making it difficult to create controlled baseline conditions for experimental comparisons. The variety of stimuli, paradigms, and definitions can further complicate comparisons across domains or methodologies. Despite these challenges, the high level of interest and multitude of methodological approaches from different cognitive domains (including music, language, and motor learning) have yielded new insights and hold promise for future progress.
Music can be described as sequences of events that are structured in pitch and time. Studying music processing provides insight into how complex event sequences are learned, perceived, and represented by the brain. Given the temporal nature of sound, expectations, structural integration, and cognitive sequencing are central in music perception (i.e., which sounds are most likely to come next and at what moment should they occur?). This paper focuses on similarities in music and language cognition research, showing that music cognition research provides insight into the understanding of not only music processing but also language processing and the processing of other structured stimuli. The hypothesis of shared resources between music and language processing and of domain-general dynamic attention has motivated the development of research to test music as a means to stimulate sensory, cognitive, and motor processes.
Pomegranate juice (PJ) is a natural product that inhibits prostate cancer progression. A clinical trial on patients with recurrent prostate cancer resulted in none of the patients progressing to a metastatic stage during the period of the trial. We have previously found that, in addition to causing cell death of hormone-refractory prostate cancer cells, PJ also markedly increases adhesion and decreases migration of the cells that do not die. However, because PJ is a very complex mixture of components and is found in many different formulations, it is important to identify specific components that are effective in inhibiting growth and metastasis. Here, we show that the PJ components luteolin, ellagic acid, and punicic acid together inhibit growth of hormone-dependent and hormone-refractory prostate cancer cells and inhibit their migration and their chemotaxis toward stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF1), a chemokine that is important in prostate cancer metastasis to the bone. These components also increase the expression of cell adhesion genes and decrease expression of genes involved in cell cycle control and cell migration. Furthermore, they increase several well-known tumor-suppression microRNAs (miRNAs), decrease several oncogenic miRNAs, and inhibit the chemokines receptor type 4 (CXCR4)/SDF1 chemotaxis axis. Our results suggest that these components may be more effective in inhibiting prostate cancer growth and metastasis than simply drinking the juice. Chemical modification of these components could further enhance their bioavailability and efficacy of treatment. Moreover, because the mechanisms of metastasis are similar for most cancers, these PJ components may also be effective in the treatment of metastasis of other cancers.
Probability has played a central role in models of perception for more than a century, but a look at probabilistic concepts in the literature raises many questions. Is being Bayesian the same as being optimal? Are recent Bayesian models fundamentally different from classic signal detection theory models? Do findings of near-optimal inference provide evidence that neurons compute with probability distributions? This review aims to disentangle these concepts and to classify empirical evidence accordingly.
Recent developments in decision-making research are bringing the topic of planning back to center stage in cognitive science. This renewed interest reopens an old, but still unanswered question: how exactly does planning happen? What are the underlying information processing operations and how are they implemented in the brain? Although a range of interesting possibilities exists, recent work has introduced a potentially transformative new idea, according to which planning is accomplished through probabilistic inference.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play a crucial role in innate immunity by recognizing conserved motifs predominantly found in microorganisms. Increasing evidence supports a role for TLRs in sterile inflammation as observed in neurodegenerative disorders. This includes work suggesting a contribution for these receptors to the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and related disorders. In this review, the potential role of TLRs in the context of protein aggregation, neuronal degeneration, and genetic risk factors is addressed. In particular, we discuss the evidence derived from experimental models of both AD and PD which suggests that activation of TLRs can have beneficial and detrimental effects on pathological features such as protein aggregation and neuronal death. A deeper understanding of these dichotomous observations could be used for therapeutic benefit.
Previous studies of risk factors for sickness absence (SA) focus primarily on psychosocial and work environmental exposures. The aim of this study was to investigate the relative contribution of genetic influences on SA among women and men. The population-based study sample of Swedish twins (34,547) included 13,743 twin pairs of known zygosity, 3,495 monozygotic, 5,073 same-sexed dizygotic, and 5,175 opposite sexed. The point prevalence of long-term SA (15 days) in each zygosity and sex group was calculated. The risk of SA was estimated as an odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) where the odds for twins on SA to have a co-twin on SA was compared to the OR for SA in twins whose co-twin were not sickness absent. Intrapair correlations and probandwise concordance rates were calculated and standard biometrical genetic model-fitting methods were used to estimate the heritability of SA. The prevalence of SA was 8.8% (women 10.7%; men 6.5%). Intrapair similarity was higher among monozygotic than dizygotic twin pairs. The best-fitting model showed no sex differences in genetic effects or variance components contributing to SA. The heritability estimate was 36% (95% CI: 35-40%). Results suggest genetic contribution to the variation of SA and that environmental factors have an important role, for women and men. As SA seem to be influenced by genetic factors, future studies of associations between risk factors and SA should consider this potentially confounding effect.
Presently the gold standard diagnostic technique for rabies is the direct immunofluorescence assay (dFA) which is very expensive and requires a high level of expertise. There is a need for more economical and user friendly tests, particularly for use in developing countries. We have established one such test called the direct rapid immunohistochemical test (dRIT) for diagnosis of rabies using brain tissue. The test is based on capture of rabies nucleoprotein (N) antigen in brain smears using a cocktail of biotinylated monoclonal antibodies specific for the N protein and color development by streptavidin peroxidase-amino ethyl carbazole and counter staining with haematoxollin. The test was done in parallel with standard FAT dFA using 400 brain samples from different animals and humans. The rabies virus N protein appears under light microscope as reddish brown particles against a light blue background. There was 100 % correlation between the results obtained by the two tests. Also, interpretation of results by dRIT was easier and only required a light microscope. To conclude, this newly developed dRIT technique promises to be a simple, cost effective diagnostic tool for rabies and will have applicability in field conditions prevalent in developing countries.
Acute neuropathological conditions, including brain and spinal cord trauma, are leading causes of death and disabilities worldwide, especially in children and young adults. The causes of brain and spinal cord injuries include automobile accidents, accidents during recreational activities, falls and violent attacks. In the United States of America alone, around 1.7 million people each year seek medical care for some kind of head injury. About fifty-two thousand of these people will die, while the same number will present with permanent functional disability. Considering the high worldwide prevalence of these acute pathological conditions, research on the mechanisms underlying central nervous system damage is of extreme importance. Nowadays, a number of experimental models of acute neural disorders have been developed and the mechanisms of tissue loss have been investigated. These mechanisms include both primary and secondary pathological events contributing to tissue damage and functional impairment. The main secondary pathological mechanisms encompass excitotoxicity, ionic imbalances, inflammatory response, oxidative stress and apoptosis. The proper elucidation of how neural tissue is lost following brain and spinal cord trauma is fundamental to developing effective therapies to human diseases. The present review evaluates the main mechanisms of secondary tissue damage following traumatic brain and spinal cord injuries.


The two sets of paired appendages, called limbs, are locomotory organs in tetrapods that are used for various functions (e.g., walking, running, crawling, digging, climbing, diving, swimming, and flying). Unlike such organs as the eye, which contain specialized tissues such as the lens and photoreceptor, the limb does not have any specialized cells or tissues, but consists of common tissues, such as bone, cartilage, muscle, blood vessels, and dermis. However, limb morphology is highly specialized and varies to provide species-specific modes of locomotion. As do the vertebrae and skull, the limb skeleton varies in morphology among species. The diversity of limb skeletal morphology provides examples of material for studies on morphogenesis. Avian forelimbs have evolved into wings for flight. The skeletal pattern in the avian limb has many traits that are unique among extant species of vertebrates; some of such traits are avian-specific, others are shared with more basal members of Theropoda, to which Aves belongs. Since such avian traits generally form during ontogenic development, determining when and how they appear in the developing embryonic limbs or limb buds provides important insights into the mechanisms underlying the generation of vertebrate morphological diversity. Here, we present an overview of several features of the skeletal pattern in the avian limb and discuss the developmental mechanisms responsible for their unique and lineage-specific traits.
Anthocyanins are the most abundant flavonoid constituents of fruits and vegetables and several epidemiological studies suggest that the consumption of these compounds protect against several diseases, including vascular disorders. Previously, we have reported that anthocyanins are able to counteract peroxynitrite-induced apoptotic effects in endothelial cells through inhibition of several crucial signaling cascades, upstream and downstream of mitochondria. Following these studies, here we investigated possible effects of malvidin-3-glucoside, one of the main dietary anthocyanins, on NO bioavailability and on peroxynitrite-induced NF-kB activation in the same cell model. Our results show that treatment of bovine arterial endothelial cells with malvidin-3-glucoside up-regulated eNOS mRNA, leading to the enhancement of eNOS activity and NO production, an effect even greater when cells were further stimulated with peroxynitrite. On the other hand, in these activated endothelial cells, malvidin-3-glucoside suppressed pro-inflammatory mediators, namely iNOS expression/NO biosynthesis, COX-2 expression and IL-6 production, through inhibition of NF-kB activation. These findings suggest a potential role of malvidin-3-glucoside in NO balance and in inhibition of pro-inflammatory signaling pathways, supporting its benefits in cardiovascular health and pointing to anthocyanins as a promising tool for development of functional foods and nutraceuticals to improve endothelial function.



We introduce a method that uses optogenetic stimulation to evoke field potentials in brain slices prepared from transgenic mice expressing channelrhodopsin-2-YFP. Cortical slices in a recording chamber were stimulated with a 473 nm blue laser via either a laser scanning photostimulation setup or by direct guidance of a fiber optic. Field potentials evoked by either of the two optogenetic stimulation methods had stable amplitude, consistent waveform, and similar components as events evoked with a conventional stimulating electrode. The amplitude of evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials increased with increasing laser intensity or pulse duration. We further demonstrated that optogenetic stimulation can be used for the induction and monitoring of long-term depression. We conclude that this technique allows for efficient and reliable activation of field potentials in brain slice preparation, and will be useful for studying short and long term synaptic plasticity.
Zebrafish (Danio rerio) are rapidly becoming an important model organism in neuroscience research, representing an excellent species to study complex social phenotypes. Zebrafish actively form shoals, which can be used to quantify their shoaling behaviors, highly sensitive to various experimental manipulations. Recent advances in video-tracking techniques have enabled simultaneous tracking of multiple subjects, previously assessed by manual scoring of animal behavior. Here we examined the effect of group-size in the shoaling paradigm (ranging from 2 to 8 fish), and evaluated the ability of novel video-tracking tools to accurately track an entire shoal, compared to traditional manual analysis of shoaling phenotypes. To further validate our approach, the effects of the psychotropic drugs lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) and 3,4-methlenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), as well as exposure to alarm pheromone, previously shown to affect zebrafish shoaling, were examined. Overall, a significant difference in group size was shown in the 2-fish vs. the 3-, 4-, 5-, 6-, 7- and 8-fish groups. Moreover, both LSD and MDMA treatments reduced shoaling (assessed by increased inter-fish distance) as well as proximity (time spent together) among fish. In contrast, exposure to alarm pheromone yielded an increase in shoaling and in proximity in a time-dependent manner. Importantly, a highly significant correlation for manual vs. automated analyses was revealed across all experiments. Collectively, this study further supports the utility of zebrafish to study social behavior, also demonstrating the capacity of video-tracking technology to assess zebrafish shoaling in a high-throughput and reliable manner.

Alcoholism, HIV, and depressive symptoms frequently co-occur and are associated with impairment in cognition and life function. We administered the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II), measures of life function, and neurocognitive tests to 67 alcoholics, 56 HIV+ patients, 63 HIV+ alcoholics, and 64 controls to examine whether current depressive symptom level (significant, BDI-II&gt;14 vs. minimal, BDI-II&lt;14) was associated with poorer cognitive or psychosocial function in alcoholism-HIV comorbidity. Participants with significant depressive symptoms demonstrated slower manual motor speed and poorer visuospatial memory than those with minimal depressive symptoms. HIV patients with depressive symptoms showed impaired manual motor speed. Alcoholics with depressive symptoms showed impaired visuospatial memory. HIV+ alcoholics with depressive symptoms reported the poorest quality of life; alcoholics with depressive symptoms, irrespective of HIV status, had poorest life functioning. Thus, significant depressive symptoms were associated with poorer selective cognitive and life functioning in alcoholism and in HIV infection, even though depressive symptoms had neither synergistic nor additive effects on cognition in alcoholism-HIV comorbidity. The results suggest the relevance of assessing and treating current depressive symptoms to reduce cognitive compromise and functional disability in HIV infection, alcoholism, and their comorbidity.
Anatomical and neurophysiological evidence indicates that thoracic interneurons can serve a commissural function and activate contralateral motoneurons. Accordingly, we hypothesized that respiratory-related intercostal (IC) muscle electromyogram (EMG) activity would be only modestly impaired by a unilateral cervical spinal cord injury. Inspiratory tidal volume (VT) was recorded using pneumotachography and EMG activity was recorded bilaterally from the 1st to 2nd intercostal space in anesthetized, spontaneously breathing rats. Studies were conducted at 1-3 days, 2 wks or 8 wks following C2 spinal cord hemisection (C2HS). Data were collected during baseline breathing and a brief respiratory challenge (7% CO(2)). A substantial reduction in inspiratory intercostal EMG bursting ipsilateral to the lesion was observed at 1-3 days post-C2HS. However, a time-dependent return of activity occurred such that by 2 wks post-injury inspiratory intercostal EMG bursts ipsilateral to the lesion were similar to age-matched, uninjured controls. The increases in ipsilateral intercostal EMG activity occurred in parallel with increases in VT following the injury (R=0.55; P&lt;0.001). We conclude that plasticity occurring within a &quot;crossed-intercostal&quot; circuitry enables a robust, spontaneous recovery of ipsilateral intercostal activity following C2HS in rats.

Stereocilia tip links of inner ear hair cells are subjected to constant stretching during hair-bundle deflection, and accordingly are well designed to prevent from being broken by mechanical tensions. The roots of tip links, which couple tip links with the cytoskeleton, supposedly play important roles in withstanding large forces under stimulated conditions. The upper root of the tip link is mainly formed by the cytoplasmic tail of cadherin23 and its actin-anchoring protein harmonin. However, the detailed organization mode of the two proteins that gives rise to a strong upper root remains unclear. Here we show that the exon68-encoded peptide of cadherin23 can either interact with the N-terminal domain (NTD) of harmonin or form a homodimer. We demonstrate that the three harmonin binding sites of cadherin23, namely the NTD-binding motif, the exon68 peptide, and the C-terminal PDZ binding motif, do not synergize with each other in binding to harmonin, instead they facilitate formation of polymeric cadherin23/harmonin complexes. The exon68 peptide can promote the cadherin23/harmonin polymer formation via either binding to harmonin NTD or self-dimerization. We propose that the polymeric cadherin23/harmonin complex formed beneath the upper tip link membranes may serve as part of the stable rootlet structure for anchoring the tip links of stereocilia.
The accessory (2) subunits of voltage-gated calcium channels are membrane-anchored proteins, which are highly glycosylated, possess multiple disulfide bonds, and are post-translationally cleaved into (2) and . All (2) subunits have a C-terminal hydrophobic, potentially trans-membrane domain and were described as type I transmembrane proteins, but we found evidence that they can be glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored. To probe further the function of membrane anchoring in (2) subunits, we have now examined the properties of (2)-1 constructs truncated at their putative glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor site, located before the C-terminal hydrophobic domain ((2)-1C-term). We find that the majority of (2)-1C-term is soluble and secreted into the medium, but unexpectedly, some of the protein remains associated with detergent-resistant membranes, also termed lipid rafts, and is extrinsically bound to the plasma membrane. Furthermore, heterologous co-expression of (2)-1C-term with Ca(V)2.1/1b results in a substantial enhancement of the calcium channel currents, albeit less than that produced by wild-type (2)-1. These results call into question the role of membrane anchoring of (2) subunits for calcium current enhancement.
The extravasation of lymphocytes across central nervous system (CNS) vascular endothelium is a key step in inflammatory demyelinating diseases including multiple sclerosis (MS) and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). The glycosaminoglycan hyaluronan (HA) and its receptor, CD44, have been implicated in this process but their precise roles are unclear. We find that CD44(-/-) mice have a delayed onset of EAE compared with wild type animals. Using an in vitro lymphocyte rolling assay, we find that fewer slow rolling (&lt;1 m/s) wild type (WT) activated lymphocytes interact with CD44(-/-) brain vascular endothelial cells (ECs) than with WT ECs. We also find that CD44(-/-) ECs fail to anchor HA to their surfaces, and that slow rolling lymphocyte interactions with WT ECs are inhibited when the ECs are treated with a pegylated form of the PH20 hyaluronidase (PEG-PH20). Subcutaneous injection of PEG-PH20 delays the onset of EAE symptoms by ~1 day and transiently ameliorates symptoms for 2 days following disease onset. These improved symptoms correspond histologically to degradation of HA in the lumen of CNS blood vessels, decreased demyelination, and impaired CD4(+) T-cell extravasation. Collectively these data suggest that HA tethered to CD44 on CNS ECs is critical for the extravasation of activated T cells into the CNS providing new insight into the mechanisms promoting inflammatory demyelinating disease.
Loss of synaptic inhibition by -aminobutyric acid and glycine due to potassium chloride cotransporter-2 (KCC2) down-regulation in the spinal cord is a critical mechanism of synaptic plasticity in neuropathic pain. Here we present novel evidence that peripheral nerve injury diminishes glycine-mediated inhibition and induces a depolarizing shift in the reversal potential of glycine-mediated currents (E(glycine)) in spinal dorsal horn neurons. Blocking glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors normalizes synaptic inhibition, E(glycine), and KCC2 by nerve injury. Strikingly, nerve injury increases calcium-dependent calpain activity in the spinal cord that in turn causes KCC2 cleavage at the C terminus. Inhibiting calpain blocks KCC2 cleavage induced by nerve injury and NMDA, thereby normalizing E(glycine). Furthermore, calpain inhibition or silencing of -calpain at the spinal level reduces neuropathic pain. Thus, nerve injury promotes proteolytic cleavage of KCC2 through NMDA receptor-calpain activation, resulting in disruption of chloride homeostasis and diminished synaptic inhibition in the spinal cord. Targeting calpain may represent a new strategy for restoring KCC2 levels and tonic synaptic inhibition and for treating chronic neuropathic pain.
Based on a rare, natural Glu for Ala-204(C+6) variant located six residues after the conserved Cys residue in extracellular loop 2b (ECL2b) associated with selective elimination of the high constitutive signaling of the ghrelin receptor, this loop was subjected to a detailed structure functional analysis. Introduction of Glu in different positions demonstrated that although the constitutive signaling was partly reduced when introduced in position 205(C+7) it was only totally eliminated in position 204(C+6). No charge-charge interaction partner could be identified for the Glu(C+6) variant despite mutational analysis of a number of potential partners in the extracellular loops and outer parts of the transmembrane segments. Systematic probing of position 204(C+6) with amino acid residues of different physicochemical properties indicated that a positively charged Lys surprisingly provided phenotypes similar to those of the negatively charged Glu residue. Computational chemistry analysis indicated that the propensity for the C-terminal segment of extracellular loop 2b to form an extended -helix was increased from 15% in the wild type to 89 and 82% by introduction in position 204(C+6) of a Glu or a Lys residue, respectively. Moreover, the constitutive activity of the receptor was inhibited by Zn(2+) binding in an engineered metal ion site, stabilizing an -helical conformation of this loop segment. It is concluded that the high constitutive activity of the ghrelin receptor is dependent upon flexibility in the C-terminal segment of extracellular loop 2 and that mutations or ligand binding that constrains this segment and thereby conceivably the movements of transmembrane domain V relative to transmembrane domain III inhibits the high constitutive signaling.
Familial Parkinson disease (PD) can result from -synuclein gene multiplication, implicating the reduction of neuronal -synuclein as a therapeutic target. Moreover, -synuclein content in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) represents a PD biomarker candidate. However, capture-based assays for -synuclein quantification in CSF (such as by ELISA) have shown discrepancies and have limited suitability for high-throughput screening. Here, we describe two sensitive, in-solution, time-resolved Frster's resonance energy transfer (TR-FRET)-based immunoassays for total and oligomeric -synuclein quantification. CSF analysis showed strong concordance for total -synuclein content between two TR-FRET assays and, in agreement with a previously characterized 36 h protocol-based ELISA, demonstrated lower -synuclein levels in PD donors. Critically, the assay suitability for high-throughput screening of siRNA constructs and small molecules aimed at reducing endogenous -synuclein levels was established and validated. In a small-scale proof of concept compound screen using 384 well plates, signals ranged from &lt;30 to &gt;120% of the mean of vehicle-treated cells for molecules known to lower and increase cellular -synuclein, respectively. Furthermore, a reverse genetic screen of a kinase-directed siRNA library identified seven genes that modulated -synuclein protein levels (five whose knockdown increased and two that decreased cellular -synuclein protein). This provides critical new biological insight into cellular pathways regulating -synuclein steady-state expression that may help guide further drug discovery efforts. Moreover, we describe an inherent limitation in current -synuclein oligomer detection methodology, a finding that will direct improvement of future assay design. Our one-step TR-FRET-based platform for -synuclein quantification provides a novel platform with superior performance parameters for the rapid screening of large biomarker cohorts and of compound and genetic libraries, both of which are essential to the development of PD therapies.
Because capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) showed higher resolution for highly charged large carbohydrates and complex structures when compared to other chromatographic separation methods, it was chosen for the characterization of nanoparticles (NPs) of pentosan polysulfate (PPS). Thus, using the CZE technique, we developed a reliable, sensitive and rapid protocol that allowed the detection and characterization of PPS NPs. This protocol was able to determine the profile of both the NPs and the species of PPS entrapped into them, and to quantify free and bound PPS showing high reproducibility, acceptable accuracy and a good degree of precision. Moreover, it allowed the evaluation of the size and charge of the NPs. This protocol might be suitable for the characterization of other kinds of NPs also.

Transfer entropy, an information-theoretic measure of time-directed information transfer between joint processes, has steadily gained popularity in the analysis of complex stochastic dynamics in diverse fields, including the neurosciences, ecology, climatology, and econometrics. We show that for a broad class of predictive models, the log-likelihood ratio test statistic for the null hypothesis of zero transfer entropy is a consistent estimator for the transfer entropy itself. For finite Markov chains, furthermore, no explicit model is required. In the general case, an asymptotic 2 distribution is established for the transfer entropy estimator. The result generalizes the equivalence in the Gaussian case of transfer entropy and Granger causality, a statistical notion of causal influence based on prediction via vector autoregression, and establishes a fundamental connection between directed information transfer and causality in the Wiener-Granger sense.

Accumulation of oxidative DNA damage has been proposed as a potential cause of age-related cognitive decline. The major pathway for removal of oxidative DNA base lesions is base excision repair, which is initiated by DNA glycosylases. In mice, Neil3 is the main DNA glycosylase for repair of hydantoin lesions in single-stranded DNA of neural stem/progenitor cells, promoting neurogenesis. Adult neurogenesis is crucial for maintenance of hippocampus-dependent functions involved in behavior. Herein, behavioral studies reveal learning and memory deficits and reduced anxiety-like behavior in Neil3(-/-) mice. Neural stem/progenitor cells from aged Neil3(-/-) mice show impaired proliferative capacity and reduced DNA repair activity. Furthermore, hippocampal neurons in Neil3(-/-) mice display synaptic irregularities. It appears that Neil3-dependent repair of oxidative DNA damage in neural stem/progenitor cells is required for maintenance of adult neurogenesis to counteract the age-associated deterioration of cognitive performance.
Among 18 human chemokine receptors, CCR1, CCR4, CCR5, and CCR8 were activated by metal ion Zn(II) or Cu(II) in complex with 2,2'-bipyridine or 1,10-phenanthroline with similar potencies (EC(50) from 3.9 to 172 M). Besides being agonists, they acted as selective allosteric enhancers of CCL3. These actions were dependent on a conserved glutamic acid at TM-7 (VII:06/7.39). A screening of 20 chelator analogues in complex with Zn(II) identified compounds with increased potencies, with 7 reaching highest potency at CCR1 (EC(50) of 0.85 M), 20 at CCR8 (0.39 M), and 8 at CCR5 (1.0 M). Altered selectivity for CCR1 and CCR8 over CCR5 (11, 12) and a receptor-dependent separation of allosteric from intrinsic properties were achieved (20). The pocket similarities of CCR1 and CCR8, contrary to CCR5 as proposed by the ligand screen, were elaborated by computational modeling. These studies facilitate exploration of chemokine receptors as possible targets for therapeutic intervention.
Valproic acid (VPA) is a short-chain branched fatty acid with anti-inflammatory, neuro-protective and axon remodeling effects. Here we have studied effects of VPA in gpMBP(68-84)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Both preventive (from Day 0 to Day 18) and therapeutic (from Day 7 to Day 18 or from Day 9 to Day 19) VPA (500 mg/kg, intra-gastric) administration to EAE rats once daily greatly reduced the severity and duration of EAE, and suppressed mRNA levels of interferon- (IFN-), tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), interleukin-1 (IL-1) and IL-17, matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and transcription factor T-bet, but increased levels of IL-4 mRNA in EAE spinal cords. Furthermore, preventive VPA treatment greatly attenuated accumulation of macrophages and lymphocytes in EAE spinal cords. VPA treatment altered the cytokine milieu of lymph nodes, modulating the Th profile from Th1 and Th17 to a profile of Th2 and regulatory T cells. In addition, in vitro study showed that VPA inhibited non-specific lymphocyte proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. In summary, our data demonstrated that VPA could suppress systemic and local inflammation to improve outcome of EAE, suggesting that VPA might be a candidate for treatment of multiple sclerosis.
Kainate receptors containing the GluK1 subunit (GluK1Rs; previously known as GluR5 kainate receptors) are concentrated in certain brain regions, where they play a prominent role in the regulation of neuronal excitability, by modulating GABAergic and/or glutamatergic synaptic transmission. In the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA), which plays a central role in anxiety as well as in seizure generation, GluK1Rs modulate GABAergic inhibition via postsynaptic and presynaptic mechanisms. However, the role of these receptors in the regulation of glutamate release, and the net effect of their activation on the excitability of the BLA network are not well understood. Here, we show that in amygdala slices from 35- to 50-day-old rats, the GluK1 agonist (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-tert-butylisoxazol-4-yl) propanoic acid (ATPA) (300 nM) increased the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) and miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs) recorded from BLA principal neurons, and decreased the rate of failures of evoked EPSCs. The GluK1 antagonist (S)-1-(2-amino-2-carboxyethyl)-3-(2-carboxybenzyl) pyrimidine-2,4-dione (UBP302) (25 or 30 M) decreased the frequency of mEPSCs, reduced evoked field potentials, and increased the &quot;paired-pulse ratio&quot; of the field potential amplitudes. Taken together, these results suggest that GluK1Rs in the rat BLA are present on presynaptic terminals of principal neurons, where they mediate facilitation of glutamate release. In vivo bilateral microinjections of ATPA (250 pmol) into the rat BLA increased anxiety-like behavior in the open field test, while 2 nmol ATPA induced seizures. Similar intra-BLA injections of UBP302 (20 nmol) had anxiolytic effects in the open field and the acoustic startle response tests, without affecting pre-pulse inhibition. These results suggest that although GluK1Rs in the rat BLA facilitate both GABA and glutamate release, the facilitation of glutamate release prevails, and these receptors can have an anxiogenic and seizurogenic net function. Presynaptic facilitation of glutamate release may, in part, underlie the hyperexcitability-promoting effects of GluK1R activation in the rat BLA.

The caudal division of the trigeminal spinal nucleus (Sp5C) is an important brainstem relay station of orofacial pain transmission. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of cortical electrical stimulation on nociceptive responses in Sp5C neurons. Extracellular recordings were performed in the Sp5C nucleus by tungsten microelectrodes in urethane-anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats. Nociceptive stimulation was produced by application of capsaicin cream on the whisker pad or by constriction of the infraorbital nerve. Capsaicin application evoked a long-lasting increase in the spontaneous firing rate from 1.40.2 to 3.40.6 spikes/s. Non-noxious tactile responses from stimuli delivered to the receptive field (RF) center decreased 5 min. after capsaicin application (from 2.30.1 to 1.60.1 spikes/stimulus) while responses from the whisker located at the RF periphery increased (from 1.30.2 to 2.00.1 spikes/stimulus under capsaicin). Electrical train stimulation of the primary (S1) or secondary (S2) somatosensory cortical areas reduced the increase in the firing rate evoked by capsaicin. Also, S1, but not S2, cortical stimulation reduced the increase in non-noxious tactile responses from the RF periphery. Inhibitory cortical effects were mediated by the activation of GABAergic and glycinergic neurons because they were blocked by bicuculline or strychnine. The S1 and S2 cortical stimulation also inhibited Sp5C neurons in animals with constriction of the infraorbital nerve. Consequently, the corticofugal projection from S1 and S2 cortical areas modulates nociceptive responses of Sp5C neurons and may control the transmission of nociceptive sensory stimulus.
Forty-five years ago Shik and colleagues were the first to demonstrate that electrical stimulation of the dorsal pontine reticular formation induced fictive locomotion in decerebrate cats. This supraspinal motor site was subsequently termed the &quot;mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR)&quot;. Cholinergic neurons of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPT) have been suggested to form, or at least comprise in part, the neuroanatomical basis for the MLR, but direct evidence is lacking. In an effort to clarify the location and activity profiles of pontine reticulospinal neurons supporting locomotor behaviors, we employed in the present study a retrograde tracing method in combination with single-unit recordings and antidromic spinal cord stimulation as well as characterized the locomotor- and behavioral state-dependent activities of both reticulospinal and non-reticulospinal neurons. The retrograde labeling and antidromic stimulation responses suggested a candidate group of reticulospinal neurons that were non-cholinergic and located just medial to the PPT cholinergic neurons and ventral to the cuneiform nucleus (CnF). Unit recordings from these reticulospinal neurons in freely behaving animals revealed that the preponderance of neurons fired in relation to motor behaviors and that some of these neurons were also active during rapid eye movement sleep. By contrast, non-reticulospinal neurons, which likely included cholinergic neurons, did not exhibit firing activity in relation to motor behaviors. In summary, the present study provides neuroanatomical and electrophysiological evidence that non-cholinergic, pontine reticulospinal neurons may constitute the major component of the long-sought neuroanatomic MLR in mammals.
The aim of this study was to explore, during adolescence, alterations in the use of a sensori-motor representation as unveiled by the measurement of anticipatory postural control in a bimanual load-lifting task. We hypothesised that adolescence constitutes a period of refinement of anticipatory postural control due to on-going updates of the body schema and sensori-motor representations. The anticipatory postural control was assessed using a bimanual load-lifting paradigm in which subjects stabilise their left postural forearm, which is supporting an object, while they use their right hand to lift up the object. Kinematics and electromyographic data were recorded in two groups of adolescents (11-13 and 14-16 years of age) and a group of adults. Age and gender effects were tested. During voluntary unloading, the postural forearm stabilisation in adolescents was still different from the adult one, suggesting that further improvement of the postural forearm stabilisation must take place after the age of 16. No differences occur in the two adolescent groups. Moreover, girls presented a better stabilisation of the postural forearm than boys, indicating an earlier refinement of anticipatory postural control. The decrease of activity over postural flexors, which ensure postural stabilisation, appeared later in adolescents with respect to adults. Delayed timing adjustments and increased variability could reflect intense developmental processes underlain by an intense period of CNS maturation during adolescence. We discuss the role of brain maturation in the refinement of sensori-motor representations and the update of body schema.
The mammalian subventricular zone (SVZ) is the largest germinative zone of the adult brain. Progenitor cells generated from the SVZ play important roles during the remyelination process. To determine the functional role of Olig2 in regulating astroglial differentiation in the mouse SVZ, we used the cuprizone mouse model to investigate demyelination. We found that cuprizone administration significantly enhanced the expression of Olig2 and increased astroglial differentiation in the SVZ, as compared with control. Moreover, cytoplasmic translocation of Olig2 occurred after demyelination. In vitro studies further revealed that supplementation of culture media with growth factors enhanced the oligodendroglial differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs), whereas serum alone promoted astroglial differentiation and cytoplasmic translocation of Olig2. Additionally, the expression levels of bone morphogenetic proteins 2 and 4 (BMP2 and BMP4) and inhibitor of DNA binding 2 and 4 (Id2 and Id4) were greatly elevated during astroglial differentiation. BMP inhibition by noggin suppressed the astroglial differentiation of OPCs. Our results indicate that Olig2 may serve as a key regulator during the directional differentiation of progenitor cells after demyelination. The BMP signaling pathway may contribute to the cytoplasmic translocation and altered expression of Olig2 during the remyelination process. These findings provide a better understanding of the mechanisms involved in remyelination.
Thiamine deficiency during embryonic or early postnatal development causes deficits in cerebellum-dependent activities including motor control and procedural memory. Here, we give a detailed description of the changes to A-type current in cultured cerebellar granule neurons exposed to thiamine deficiency in vitro. A-type current in treated neurons was reduced to 51% of that in controls. The remaining A-type current in treated neurons exhibited normal activation kinetics and voltage dependence whereas inactivation was markedly faster. These effects were selective because the delayed-rectifier potassium current density and kinetics were unchanged in thiamine-deficient neurons. A computational model of the cerebellar granule neuron was used to test the impact of these alterations and predicts an increase in excitability that is especially pronounced for synaptic activation. Our results suggest that the loss of A-type potassium conductance leads to hyperactivity in cerebellar granule neurons and may contribute to cell death observed in the granule layer of cerebellum during thiamine-deficiency in vivo.
Maternal thyroid hormones (THs) are important in early brain development long before the onset of embryonic TH secretion, but information about the regulation of TH availability in the brain at these early stages is still limited. We therefore investigated in detail the mRNA distribution pattern of the TH activating type 2 and inactivating type 3 deiodinases (D2 and D3) and the TH transporters, organic anion transporting polypeptide 1c1 (Oatp1c1) and monocarboxylate transporter 8 (Mct8), in chicken embryonic brain as well as in retina and inner ear from day 3 to day 10 of development. Oatp1c1, Mct8 and D3 are expressed in the choroid plexus and its precursors allowing selective uptake of THs at the blood-cerebrospinal fluid-barrier with subsequent inactivation of excess hormone. In contrast, the developing blood-brain-barrier does not express Oatp1c1 or Mct8 but appears to be a site for TH activation by D2. Expression of D3 in several sensory brain centers may serve as protection against premature TH action. Expression of D2 and Mct8 but not D3 in the developing pituitary gland allows accumulation of active THs even at early stages. Mct8 is widely expressed in gray matter throughout the brain. This is the first comprehensive study on the dynamic distribution pattern of TH-transporters and deiodinases at stages of embryonic brain development when only maternal THs are available. It provides the essential background for further research aimed at understanding early developmental processes depending on maternal THs.
In this study, we investigated whether two brain regions, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and the basolateral amygdala (BLA), affected male rats' (Rattus norvigicus) ability to innately discriminate between a predator odor (cat urine) and female rat urine. Muscimol, a GABAa receptor agonist, was bilaterally microinjected into either the BNST or BLA of rats through implanted stainless-steel guide cannulas to temporarily inactivate these brain nuclei. The behavioral responses of the treated rats to female rat urine and cat urine were then tested in an experimental arena. Compared to a saline infusion control, the injection of muscimol into the BNST strongly reversed the innate aversion of rats to cat urine but the injection of muscimol into the BLA had no effect. Furthermore, intra-BNST infusion of muscimol caused rats to be equally attracted to urine from cats and female rats but intra-BLA infusion did not stop rats manifesting fear on exposure to cat urine and exploratory behavior on exposure to female rat urine. We conclude that the BNST plays a more crucial role in modulating innate fear responses in rats than the BLA.
Very little is known about the development of cardiac parasympathetic ganglia and cholinergic innervation of the mouse heart. Accordingly, we evaluated the growth of cholinergic neurons and nerve fibers in mouse hearts from embryonic day 18.5 (E18.5) through postnatal day 21(P21). Cholinergic perikarya and varicose nerve fibers were identified in paraffin sections immunostained for the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). Satellite cells and Schwann cells in adjacent sections were identified by immunostaining for S100 calcium binding protein (S100) and brain-fatty acid binding protein (B-FABP). We found that cardiac ganglia had formed in close association to the atria and cholinergic innervation of the atrioventricular junction had already begun by E18.5. However, most cholinergic innervation of the heart, including the sinoatrial node, developed postnatally (P0.5-P21) along with a doubling of the cross-sectional area of cholinergic perikarya. Satellite cells were present throughout neonatal cardiac ganglia and expressed primarily B-FABP. As they became more mature at P21, satellite cells stained strongly for both B-FABP and S100. Satellite cells appeared to surround most cardiac parasympathetic neurons, even in neonatal hearts. Mature Schwann cells, identified by morphology and strong staining for S100, were already present at E18.5 in atrial regions that receive cholinergic innervation at later developmental times. The abundance and distribution of S100-positive Schwann cells increased postnatally along with nerve density. While S100 staining of cardiac Schwann cells was maintained in P21 and older mice, Schwann cells did not show B-FABP staining at these times. Parallel development of satellite cells and cholinergic perikarya in the cardiac ganglia and the increase in abundance of Schwann cells and varicose cholinergic nerve fibers in the atria suggest that neuronal-glial interactions could be important for development of the parasympathetic nervous system in the heart.
Phosphatase and actin regulators (Phactrs) are a novel family of proteins expressed in the brain, and they exhibit both strong modulatory activity of protein phosphatase 1 and actin-binding activity. Phactrs are comprised of four family members (Phactr1-4), but their detailed expression patterns during embryonic and postnatal development are not well understood. We found that these family members exhibit different spatiotemporal mRNA expression patterns. Phactr4 mRNA was found in neural stem cells in the developing and adult brains, whereas Phactr1 and 3 appeared to be expressed in post-mitotic neurons. Following traumatic brain injury which promotes neurogenesis in the neurogenic region and gliogenesis in the injury penumbra, the mRNA expression of phactr2 and 4 was progressively increased in the injury penumbra, and phactr4 mRNA and protein induction was observed in reactive astrocytes. These differential expression patterns of phactrs imply specific functions for each protein during development, and the importance of Phactr4 in the reactive gliosis following brain injury.
The spontaneously epileptic rat (SER) is a double mutant (zi/zi, tm/tm) which begins to exhibit tonic convulsions and absence seizures after 6 weeks of age, and repetitive tonic seizures over time induce sclerosis-like changes in SER hippocampus with high brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression. Levetiracetam, which binds to synaptic vesicle protein 2A (SV2A), inhibited both tonic convulsions and absence seizures in SERs. We studied SER brains histologically and immunohistochemically after verification by electroencephalography (EEG), as SERs exhibit seizure-related alterations in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. SERs did not show interictal abnormal spikes and slow waves typical of focal epilepsy or symptomatic generalized epilepsy. The difference in neuronal density of the cerebral cortex was insignificant between SER and Wistar rats, and apoptotic neurons did not appear in SERs. BDNF distributions portrayed higher values in the entorhinal and piriform cortices which would relate with hippocampal sclerosis-like changes. Similar synaptophysin expression in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus was found in both animals. Low and diffuse SV2A distribution portrayed in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of SERs was significantly less than that of all cerebral lobes and inner molecular layer (IML) of the dentate gyrus (DG) of Wistar rats. The extent of low SV2A expression/distribution in SERs was particularly remarkable in the frontal (51% of control) and entorhinal cortices (47%). Lower synaptotagmin-1 expression (vs Wistar rats) was located in the frontal (31%), piriform (13%) and entorhinal (39%) cortices, and IML of the DG (38%) in SER. Focal low distribution of synaptotagmin-1 accompanying low SV2A expression may contribute to epileptogenesis and seizure propagation in SER.
Abelson interactor protein 1 (Abi-1) localizes to postsynaptic densities (PSDs) of excitatory synapses and was shown to be transported from the PSD to the nucleus and back depending upon synaptic activation. We employed a yeast-two-hybrid screen to search for putative transport molecules. We found Kif26B a member of the Kif family of transport proteins that has not been characterized in the central nervous system as a direct interaction partner of Abi-1. We delineated a proline-rich motif within the cargo-binding domain of Kif26B to be responsible for this protein-protein interaction. Kif26B was able to recruit Abi-1 to the microtubule network and we found that the expression of Kif26B is responsible for the localization of Abi-1 to PSDs in maturing neurons. Taken together we report that Abi-1 is a cargo of Kif26B in primary hippocampal neurons, pointing to a role of this transport molecule in the movement of Abi-1 between different cell compartments. Additionally, we provide the first detailed investigation of Kif26B and its cargo molecules in neuronal cells.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are major exacerbation factor in acute ischemic stroke, and thrombolytic agent tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) may worsen motor function and cerebral infarcts. The platinum nanoparticle (nPt) is a novel ROS scavenger, and thus we examined the clinical and neuroprotective effects of nPt in ischemic mouse brains. Mice were subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) for 60 min and divided into the following four groups by intravenous administration upon reperfusion, vehicle, tPA, tPA+nPt, and nPt. At 48 h after tMCAO, motor function, infarct volume, immunohistochemical analyses of neurovascular unit (NVU), in vivo imaging of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP), and zymography for MMP-9 activity were examined. Superoxide anion generation at 2h after tMCAO was also examined with hydroethidine (HEt). As a result, administration of tPA deteriorated the motor function and infarct volume as compared to vehicle. In vivo optical imaging of MMP showed strong fluorescent signals in affected regions of tMCAO groups. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed that tMCAO resulted in a minimal decrease of NAGO and occludin, but a great decrease of collagen IV and a remarkable increase of MMP-9. HEt stain showed increased ROS generation by tMCAO. All these results became pronounced with tPA administration, and were greatly reduced by nPt. The present study demonstrates that nPt treatment ameliorates neurological function and brain damage in acute cerebral infarction with neuroprotective effect on NVU and inactivation of MMP-9. The strong reduction of ROS production by nPt could account for these remarkable neurological and neuroprotective effects against ischemic stroke.
Delta opioid receptors participate to the control of chronic pain and emotional responses. Recent data also identified their implication in spatial memory and drug-context associations pointing to a critical role of hippocampal delta receptors. We examined the distribution of delta receptor-expressing cells in the hippocampus using fluorescent knock-in mice that express a functional delta receptor fused at its carboxyterminus with the green fluorescent protein in place of the native receptor. Colocalization with markers for different neuronal populations was performed by immunohistochemical detection. Fine mapping in the dorsal hippocampus confirmed that delta opioid receptors are mainly present in GABAergic neurons. Indeed, they are mostly expressed in parvalbumin-immunopositive neurons both in the Ammon's horn and dentate gyrus. These receptors, therefore, most likely participate in the dynamic regulation of hippocampal activity.
Accumulating evidence supports the hypothesis of ecstasy and amphetamine exhibiting neurotoxic properties in human recreational users. The extent and exact location of neuronal degeneration might also be associated with a specific profile of cognitive deterioration described in polydrug users. Voxel-based morphometry and cortical thickness analyses constantly gain attention for answering the question of associated neurological sequelae. We aimed to evaluate the integrity of cortical and subcortical structures in three groups that differ in the consumption of amphetamine-type stimulants. Cortical thickness, cortical grey matter volume and the shape of supposedly vulnerable subcortical structures were compared between 20 experienced users, 42 users with little exposure to these substances and 16 drug- nave controls. Cortical thinning in experienced users compared to drug-nave controls and low-exposure users was observed in medio-frontal regions. Effects of ecstasy and amphetamine on cortical volume were similar to those of cortical thickness, with volume reductions primarily in frontal, but also in occipital and parietal regions of low exposure and experienced users. These effects were differently lateralized for the different comparisons. The investigation of subcortical structures revealed non-significant bilateral shape differences in the hippocampi. Our data support the hypothesis that massive recreational amphetamine-type stimulant polydrug use is associated with a thinning of cortical grey matter. Disrupted neuronal integrity in frontal regions does fit well into models of addiction and the cognitive deterioration in amphetamine-type stimulant polydrug users. The exact neurotoxic mechanisms of polydrug ecstasy and amphetamine use, however, remain speculative.
Fragile X syndrome is a neurodevelopmental condition caused by the transcriptional silencing of the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene. The Fmr1 knockout (KO) mouse exhibits age-dependent deficits in long term potentiation (LTP) at association (ASSN) synapses in anterior piriform cortex (APC). To investigate the mechanisms for this, whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings of ASSN stimulation-evoked synaptic currents were made in APC of slices from adult Fmr1-KO and wild-type (WT) mice, using the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, CPP, to distinguish currents mediated by NMDA and AMPA receptors. NMDA/AMPA current ratios were lower in Fmr1-KO mice than in WT mice, at ages ranging from 3-18months. Since amplitude and frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) mediated by AMPA receptors were no different in Fmr1-KO and WT mice at these ages, the results suggest that NMDA receptor-mediated currents are selectively reduced in Fmr1-KO mice. Analyses of voltage-dependence and decay kinetics of NMDA receptor-mediated currents did not reveal differences between Fmr1-KO and WT mice, suggesting that reduced NMDA currents in Fmr1-KO mice are due to fewer synaptic receptors rather than differences in receptor subunit composition. Reduced NMDA receptor signaling may help to explain the LTP deficit seen at APC ASSN synapses in Fmr1-KO mice at 6-18months of age, but does not explain normal LTP at these synapses in mice 3-6months old. Evoked currents and mEPSCs were also examined in senescent Fmr1-KO and WT mice at 24-28months of age. NMDA/AMPA ratios were similar in senescent WT and Fmr1-KO mice, due to a decrease in the ratio in the WT mice, without significant change in AMPA receptor-mediated mEPSCs.
Systemic injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces a robust immune response as well as thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia. Spinal and peripheral glial cells have been implicated as important mediators in this hyperalgesia but the specific contributions of microglia versus astrocytes are not entirely clear. To better define these mechanisms, this study examined the febrile response, nociceptive sensitivity, glial cell reactivity and cytokine production in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal cord in rats following systemic treatment with LPS and the effects of minocycline in countering these responses. Intraperitoneal LPS injection resulted in an increase in core body temperature and produced hyperalgesia to heat and mechanical stimuli. Western blot studies revealed increased expression of microgial cell, macrophage and satellite cell markers in DRG and microglial and astrocyte markers in spinal cord following LPS treatment. Real-time RT-PCR indicated that LPS treatment increased cytokine mRNA expression levels in both the DRG and the spinal cord. Minocycline suppressed all LPS-induced behavioral effects but not the febrile response. Moreover, minocycline prevented LPS-induced microglia/macrophage activation and cytokine responses in spinal cord and DRG, but did not affect the activation of astrocytes/satellite cells. These data demonstrate that LPS-induced changes in nociceptive sensitivity are likely mediated by activation of microglial cells and/or macrophages in the spinal cord and DRG.
Neuronal plasticity deficits underlie many of the cognitive problems seen in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD). We have developed a ferret model showing that early alcohol exposure leads to a persistent disruption in ocular dominance (OD) plasticity. Recently, we showed that this deficit could be reversed by overexpression of serum response factor (SRF) in the primary visual cortex during the period of monocular deprivation (MD). Surprisingly, this restoration was observed throughout the extent of visual cortex and most of the cells transfected by the virus were positive for the astrocytic marker GFAP rather than the neuronal marker NeuN. Here we test whether overexpression of SRF exclusively in astrocytes is sufficient to restore OD plasticity in alcohol-exposed ferrets. To accomplish that, first we exposed cultured astrocytes to Sindbis viruses carrying either a constitutively active form of SRF (SRF+), a dominant negative (SRF-) or control Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP). After 24h, these astrocytes were implanted in the visual cortex of alcohol-exposed animals or saline controls one day before MD. Optical imaging of intrinsic signals showed that alcohol-exposed animals that were implanted with astrocytes expressing SRF, but not SRF- or GFP, showed robust restoration of OD plasticity in all visual cortex. These findings suggest that overexpression of SRF exclusively in astrocytes can improve neuronal plasticity in FASD.
To reveal the fundamental processes underlying the different stages of visual object perception, most studies have manipulated relatively complex images, such as photographs, line drawings of natural objects, or perceptual illusions. Here, rather than starting from complex images and working backward to infer simpler processes, we investigated how the visual system parses and integrates information contained in stimuli of the most basic variety. Simple scatterings of a few points of light were manipulated in terms of their numerosity, spatial extent, and organization, and high-density electrophysiological recordings were made from healthy adults engaged in an unrelated task. We reasoned that this approach permitted an uncontaminated view of the spatio-temporal dynamics of the related neural processes. We were guided in our predictions by the &quot;frame-and-fill&quot; model for object perception, whereby fast inputs to the dorsal stream of the visual &quot;where&quot; system first frame the spatial extent of visual objects, which are subsequently &quot;filled-in&quot; by the slower activation of the ventral stream of the visual &quot;what&quot; system. Our findings were consistent with this view, showing a rapidly-onsetting effect of spatial extent in dorsal stream sources, and later-onsetting effects due to dot number and symmetry, which were deemed to be more closely tied to the details of object identity, from ventral stream sources. This collection of observations provides an important baseline from which to understand the spatio-temporal properties of basic visual object perception, and from which to test dysfunction of this system in clinical populations.

OBJECTIVE:: To assess the effect of subsyndromal symptoms of depression (SSD) on ratings of disability for individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). METHODS:: Data from 405 MCI participants from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) study were analyzed. Participants were evaluated at baseline and at 6-month intervals over 2 years. Severity of depressive symptoms was rated utilizing the Geriatric Depression Scale. Disability was assessed utilizing the Functional Assessment Questionnaire (FAQ). Other clinical variables included white matter lesion (WML) and intracranial brain (ICV) volumes derived from magnetic resonance imaging, ratings of overall cognitive function (Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale, ADAS), and apolipoprotein E (ApoE) status. Demographic variables included age, education, and gender. RESULTS:: SSD individuals had a lower volume of WML and higher frequency of ApoE [Latin Small Letter Open E]4 alleles than nondepressed participants but the two groups did not differ with respect to other clinical or demographic variables. At baseline, SSD individuals were 1.77 times more likely to have poorer FAQ scores than individuals with no symptoms of depression after controlling for the effect of cognitive functioning, ICV, WML, and ApoE status. The presence of SSD at baseline was not associated with a poorer course of disability outcomes, cognitive functioning, or conversion to dementia over 24 months. CONCLUSIONS:: SSD demonstrated a significant impact on disability for MCI individuals, who are also at high risk for functional limitations related to neurodegenerative disease. Therefore, the treatment of SSD may represent a significant avenue to reduce the burden of disability in this vulnerable patient population.
The present work sought to determine whether preadolescent exposure to a different task in the same spatial environment would lead to enhancement of water-maze performance and changes in hippocampal connectivity. Separate groups of preadolescent (p16-p26) Long Evans rats (LER) were exposed to the same room and arena using either a water-maze (WM) or a dry-maze (DM), while a third group received no exposure to the spatial cues (NT) but were handled. Three weeks later, rats were tested on the WM or DM task in the same room where preadolescent exposure took place. This set up conditions where the DM/WM and WM/DM groups were exposed to the same spatial cues during the preadolescent and adolescent (p40-p44) phases but performed different tests allowing for the dissociation of spatial cue exposure and task familiarity on adolescent performance. When animals experienced similar preadolescent and adolescent conditions (WM/WM or DM/DM), there was improved performance over animals with no preadolescent spatial exposure (NT/WM or NT/DM). In group DM/WM, there was enhanced adolescent performance compared to group NT/WM. In contrast, group WM/DM did not show enhanced adolescent performance. Compared to groups with no preadolescent spatial exposure, groups with both preadolescent and adolescent spatial exposure showed elevated synaptophysin staining in the hippocampal CA3 region indicating an expanded axonal projection in this region. These data suggest the possibility that exposure to spatial cues during the preadolescent period, independent from task-specific requirements, contributes to enhanced adolescent spatial performance on the WM. This appears to be linked with the reorganization of axonal inputs to the CA3 region.

The process of radiationless energy transfer from a chromophore in an excited electronic state (the &quot;donor&quot;) to another chromophore (an &quot;acceptor&quot;), in which the energy released by the donor effects an electronic transition, is known as &quot;Frster Resonance Energy Transfer&quot; (FRET). The rate of energy transfer is dependent on the sixth power of the distance between donor and acceptor. Determining FRET efficiencies is tantamount to measuring distances between molecules. A new method is proposed for determining FRET efficiencies rapidly, quantitatively, and non-destructively on ensembles containing donor acceptor pairs: at wavelengths suitable for mutually exclusive excitations of donors and acceptors, two laser beams are intensity-modulated in rectangular patterns at duty cycle  and frequencies (1) and (2) by electro-optic modulators. In an ensemble exposed to these laser beams, the donor excitation is modulated at (1), and the acceptor excitation, and therefore the degree of saturation of the excited electronic state of the acceptors, is modulated at (2). Since the ensemble contains donor acceptor pairs engaged in FRET, the released donor fluorescence is modulated not only at (1) but also at the beat frequency : = |(1) - (2)|. The depth of the latter modulation, detectable via a lock-in amplifier, quantitatively indicates the FRET efficiency.
Our sensory experiences over a range of different timescales shape our perception of the environment. Two particularly striking short-term forms of plasticity with manifestly different time courses and perceptual consequences are those caused by visual adaptation and perceptual learning. Although conventionally treated as distinct forms of experience-dependent plasticity, their neural mechanisms and perceptual consequences have become increasingly blurred, raising the possibility that they might interact. To optimize our chances of finding a functionally meaningful interaction between learning and adaptation, we examined in humans the perceptual consequences of learning a fine discrimination task while adapting the neurons that carry most information for performing this task. Learning improved discriminative accuracy to a level that ultimately surpassed that in an unadapted state. This remarkable improvement came at a price: adapting directions that before learning had little effect elevated discrimination thresholds afterward. The improvements in discriminative accuracy grew quickly and surpassed unadapted levels within the first few training sessions, whereas the deterioration in discriminative accuracy had a different time course. This learned reconfiguration of adapted discriminative accuracy occurred without a concomitant change to the characteristic perceptual biases induced by adaptation, suggesting that the system was still in an adapted state. Our results point to a functionally meaningful push-pull interaction between learning and adaptation in which a gain in sensitivity in one adapted state is balanced by a loss of sensitivity in other adapted states.
The photopigment melanopsin confers photosensitivity upon a minority of retinal output neurons. These intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) are more diverse than once believed, comprising five morphologically distinct types, M1 through M5. Here, in mouse retina, we provide the first in-depth characterization of M4 cells, including their structure, function, and central projections. M4 cells apparently correspond to ON  cells of earlier reports, and are easily distinguished from other ipRGCs by their very large somata. Their dendritic arbors are more radiate and highly branched than those of M1, M2, or M3 cells. The melanopsin-based intrinsic photocurrents of M4 cells are smaller than those of M1 and M2 cells, presumably because melanopsin is more weakly expressed; we can detect it immunohistochemically only with strong amplification. Like M2 cells, M4 cells exhibit robust, sustained, synaptically driven ON responses and dendritic stratification in the ON sublamina of the inner plexiform layer. However, their stratification patterns are subtly different, with M4 dendrites positioned just distal to those of M2 cells and just proximal to the ON cholinergic band. M4 receptive fields are large, with an ON center, antagonistic OFF surround and nonlinear spatial summation. Their synaptically driven photoresponses lack direction selectivity and show higher ultraviolet sensitivity in the ventral retina than in the dorsal retina, echoing the topographic gradient in S- and M-cone opsin expression. M4 cells are readily labeled by retrograde transport from the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and thus likely contribute to the pattern vision that persists in mice lacking functional rods and cones.
L-type voltage-gated calcium channels (L-VGCCs) in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) are necessary for long-term memory of fear conditioning, where they are thought to drive the activation of protein kinases and to initiate gene transcription. However, their role in fear extinction learning is unclear given that systemic injections of VGCC antagonists induce a protracted stress response. Here we tested the effects of local infusions of the L-VGCC antagonists verapamil and nifedipine on both within-session extinction and fear extinction consolidation. Intra-BLA infusions of verapamil or nifedipine did not affect the expression of fear conditioning or the amount of within-session extinction but impaired extinction memory when rats were tested 24 h later drug-free. L-VGCC antagonists also prevented the increase in phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) normally seen in the BLA following extinction learning. These results suggest that activation of L-VGCCs in the BLA at the time of fear extinction learning is necessary for the long-term retention of fear extinction via the MAPK pathway.
Emerging evidence implicates serotonergic descending facilitatory pathways from the brainstem to the spinal cord in the maintenance of pathologic pain. Upregulation of the serotonin receptor 2A (5-HT(2A)R) in dorsal horn neurons promotes spinal hyperexcitation and impairs spinal -opioid mechanisms during neuropathic pain. We investigated the involvement of spinal glutamate receptors, including metabotropic receptors (mGluRs) and NMDA, in 5-HT(2A)R-induced hyperexcitability after spinal nerve ligation (SNL) in rat. High-affinity 5-HT(2A)R agonist (4-bromo-3,6-dimethoxybenzocyclobuten-1-yl)methylamine hydrobromide (TCB-2) enhanced C-fiber-evoked dorsal horn potentials after SNL, which was prevented by mGluR1 antagonist AIDA [(RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid] but not by group II mGluR antagonist LY 341495 [(2S)-2-amino-2-[(1S,2S)-2-carboxycycloprop-1-yl]-3-(xanth-9-yl)propanoic acid] or NMDA antagonist d-AP5 [D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid]. 5-HT(2A)R and mGluR1 were found to be coexpressed in postsynaptic densities in dorsal horn neurons. In the absence of SNL, pharmacological stimulation of 5-HT(2A)R with TCB-2 both induced rapid bilateral upregulation of mGluR1 expression in cytoplasmic and synaptic fractions of spinal cord homogenates, which was attenuated by PKC inhibitor chelerythrine, and enhanced evoked potentials during costimulation of mGluR1 with 3,5-DHPG [(RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine]. SNL was followed by bilateral upregulation of mGluR1 in 5-HT(2A)R-containing postsynaptic densities. Upregulation of mGluR1 in synaptic compartments was partially prevented by chronic administration of selective 5-HT(2A)R antagonist M100907 [(R)-(+)--(2,3-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-[2-(4-fluorophenyl)ethyl]-4-pipidinemethanol], confirming 5-HT(2A)R-mediated control of mGluR1 upregulation triggered by SNL. Changes in thermal and mechanical pain thresholds following SNL were increasingly reversed over the days after injury by chronic 5-HT(2A)R blockade. These results emphasize a role for 5-HT(2A)R in hyperexcitation and pain after nerve injury and support mGluR1 upregulation as a novel feedforward activation mechanism contributing to 5-HT(2A)R-mediated facilitation.
The most conserved part of the vertebrate dopaminergic system is the orthopedia (otp)-expressing diencephalic neuronal population that constitutes the dopaminergic diencephalospinal tract (DDT). Although studies in the neonatal murine spinal cord in vitro suggest an early locomotor role of the DDT, the function of the DDT in developing vertebrates in vivo remains unknown. Here, we investigated the role of the DDT in the locomotor development of zebrafish larvae. To assess the development of the behavioral and neural locomotor pattern, we used high-throughput video tracking in combination with peripheral nerve recordings. We found a behavioral and neural correspondence in the developmental switch from an immature to mature locomotor pattern. Blocking endogenous dopamine receptor 4 (D(4)R) signaling in vivo either before or after the developmental switch prevented or reversed the switch, respectively. Spinal transections of post-switch larvae reestablished the immature locomotor pattern, which was rescued to a mature-like pattern via spinal D(4)R agonism. Selective chemogenetic ablation of otp b (otpb) neurons that contribute to the DDT perpetuated the immature locomotor pattern in vivo. This phenotype was recapitulated by diencephalic transections that removed the dopaminergic otpb population and was rescued to a mature-like locomotor pattern by D(4)R agonism. We conclude that the dopaminergic otpb population, via the DDT, is responsible for spinal D(4)R signaling to mediate the developmental switch to the mature locomotor pattern of zebrafish. These results, integrated with the mammalian literature, suggest that the DDT represents an evolutionarily conserved neuromodulatory system that is necessary for normal vertebrate locomotor development.
In the insular cortex, the primary gustatory area caudally adjoins the primary autonomic area that is involved in visceral sensory-motor integration. However, it has not been addressed whether neural activity in the gustatory insula (Gu-I) is coordinated with that in the autonomic insula (Au-I). We have demonstrated that TRPV1 activation in Gu-I induces theta-band synchronization between Gu-I and Au-I in rat slice preparations. Electron-microscopic immunohistochemistry revealed that TRPV1 immunoreactivity was much higher in Gu-I than in Au-I, and was mostly detected in dendritic spines receiving asymmetrical synapses. Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings revealed that, in Gu-I, capsaicin-induced currents in layer 3 (L3) pyramidal cells (PCs) displayed no apparent desensitization, while those in layer 5 (L5) PCs displayed Ca(2+)-dependent desensitization, suggesting that L3 and L5 PCs respond differentially to TRPV1 activation. Voltage-sensitive dye imaging demonstrated that TRPV1 activation in Gu-I can alter an optical response with a monophasic and columnar temporospatial pattern evoked within Gu-I into an oscillatory one extending over Gu-I and Au-I. Power and cross-power spectral analyses of optical responses revealed theta-band synchronization between Gu-I and Au-I. Whole-cell current-clamp recordings demonstrated that such theta-band waves were mediated by sustained rhythmic firings at 4 and 8 Hz in L3 and L5 PCs, respectively. These results strongly suggested that theta-band oscillatory neural coordination between Gu-I and Au-I was induced by two distinct TRPV1-mediated theta-rhythm firings in L3 and L5 PCs in Gu-I. This network coordination induced by TRPV1 activation could be responsible for autonomic responses to tasting and ingesting spicy foods.
In addition to being a hallmark of neurodegenerative disease, axon degeneration is used during development of the nervous system to prune unwanted connections. In development, axon degeneration is tightly regulated both temporally and spatially. Here, we provide evidence that degeneration cues are transduced through various kinase pathways functioning in spatially distinct compartments to regulate axon degeneration. Intriguingly, glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3) acts centrally, likely modulating gene expression in the cell body to regulate distally restricted axon degeneration. Through a combination of genetic and pharmacological manipulations, including the generation of an analog-sensitive kinase allele mutant mouse for GSK3, we show that the  isoform of GSK3, not the  isoform, is essential for developmental axon pruning in vitro and in vivo. Additionally, we identify the dleu2/mir15a/16-1 cluster, previously characterized as a regulator of B-cell proliferation, and the transcription factor tbx6, as likely downstream effectors of GSK3 in axon degeneration.
The activity of auditory afferent fibers depends strongly on the frequency of stimulation. Although the bullfrog's amphibian papilla lacks the flexible basilar membrane that effects tuning in mammals, its afferents display comparable frequency selectivity. Seeking additional mechanisms of tuning in this organ, we monitored the synaptic output of hair cells by measuring changes in their membrane capacitance during sinusoidal electrical stimulation at various frequencies. Using perforated-patch recordings, we found that individual hair cells displayed frequency selectivity in synaptic exocytosis within the frequency range sensed by the amphibian papilla. Moreover, each cell's tuning varied in accordance with its tonotopic position. Using confocal imaging, we observed a tonotopic gradient in the concentration of proteinaceous Ca(2+) buffers. A model for synaptic release suggests that this gradient maintains the sharpness of tuning. We conclude that hair cells of the amphibian papilla use synaptic tuning as an additional mechanism for sharpening their frequency selectivity.
Motion perception is qualitatively invariant across different objects and forms, namely, the same motion information can be conveyed by many different physical carriers, and it requires the processing of motion signals consisting of direction, speed, and axis or trajectory of motion defined by a moving object. Compared with the representation of orientation, the cortical processing of these different motion signals within the early ventral visual pathway of the primate remains poorly understood. Using drifting full-field noise stimuli and intrinsic optical imaging, along with cytochrome-oxidase staining, we found that the orientation domains in macaque V1, V2, and V4 that processed orientation signals also served to process motion signals associated with the axis and speed of motion. In contrast, direction domains within the thick stripes of V2 demonstrated preferences that were independent of motion speed. The population responses encoding the orientation and motion axis could be precisely reproduced by a spatiotemporal energy model. Thus, our observation of orientation domains with dual functions in V1, V2, and V4 directly support the notion that the linear representation of the temporal series of retinotopic activations may serve as another motion processing strategy in primate ventral visual pathway, contributing directly to fine form and motion analysis. Our findings further reveal that different types of motion information are differentially processed in parallel and segregated compartments within primate early visual cortices, before these motion features are fully combined in high-tier visual areas.
How the human brain reconstructs the three-dimensional (3D) world from two-dimensional (2D) retinal images has received a great deal of interest as has how we shift attention in 2D space. In contrast, it remains poorly understood how visuospatial attention is shifted in depth. In this fMRI study, by constructing a virtual 3D environment in the MR scanner and by presenting targets either close to or far from the participants in an adapted version of the Posner spatial-cueing paradigm, we investigated the behavioral and neural mechanisms underlying visuospatial orienting/reorienting in depth. At the behavioral level, although covering the same spatial distance, attentional reorienting to objects unexpectedly appearing closer to the observer and in the unattended hemispace was faster than reorienting to unexpected objects farther away. At the neural level, we found that in addition to the classical attentional reorienting system in the right temporoparietal junction, two additional brain networks were differentially involved in aspects of attentional reorienting in depth. First, bilateral premotor cortex reoriented visuospatial attention specifically along the third dimension of visual space (i.e., from close to far or vice versa), compared with attentional reorienting within the same depth plane. Second, a network of areas reminiscent of the human &quot;default-mode network,&quot; including posterior cingulate cortex, orbital prefrontal cortex, and left angular gyrus, was involved in the neural interaction between depth and attentional orienting, by boosting attentional reorienting to unexpected objects appearing both closer to the observer and in the unattended hemispace.
Depth-electrode recordings from the auditory cortex of humans undergoing presurgical evaluation for epilepsy allow the recording of ensemble responses to pitch in the form of local field potentials. These recordings allow another test of the hypothesis that there is a specialized neural ensemble for pitch within auditory cortex. Moreover, the technique allows recordings from multiple sites with millisecond temporal resolution to allow modeling of the effective connectivity between these sites. Here we argue that this takes the form of a hierarchical network of pitch-sensitive regions. Activity can be understood as reflecting predictive coding, in which perceptual predictions and error messages are continuously exchanged between a higher pitch center and lower-level auditory cortex.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in humans and macaques allows a test of the hypothesis that there is a specialized neural ensemble for pitch within auditory cortex: a pitch center. fMRI measures the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) response related to regional synaptic activity (Logothetis et al., 2001). The distinction between synaptic activity and spike firing, and species differences encourage caution when comparing BOLD activity in humans and macaques to recordings from single neurons in ferret and marmoset in the previous mini-review. The BOLD data provide support for the pitch-center concept, with ongoing debate about its location.

The poorer recognition performance for inverted as compared to upright faces is one of the most well-known and robust behavioral effects observed in the field of face perception. Here we investigated whether extensive training at individualizing a large set of inverted faces in adulthood could significantly reduce this inversion effect for novel faces. This issue is important because inverted faces are as complex as upright faces but they are not visually experienced during development. Moreover, inverted faces violate the biological constraints, present at birth, for preferential looking (i.e., a larger number of elements in the top part than the bottom part of the stimulus). Eight adult observers were trained for 2 weeks (16 hr) to individualize 30 inverted face identities presented under different depth-rotated views. Following training, all participants showed a significant reduction of their inversion effect for novel face identities presented in a challenging four-alternatives delayed matching task. This reduction of the face inversion effect was observed in comparison to the magnitude of the same observers' effect before training, and to the magnitude of the face inversion effect of a group of untrained participants. These observations indicate that extensive training in adulthood can lead to a significant reduction of the inversion effect that generalizes to novel faces, suggesting a larger degree of flexibility of the adult face processing system than previously thought.
The multiple sclerosis (MS) patient population is highly heterogeneous in terms of disease course and treatment response. We used a transcriptional profile generated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells to define the structure of an MS patient population. Two subsets of MS subjects (MS(A) and MS(B)) were found among 141 untreated subjects. We replicated this structure in two additional groups of MS subjects treated with one of the two first-line disease-modifying treatments in MS: glatiramer acetate (GA) (n = 94) and interferon- (IFN-) (n = 128). One of the two subsets of subjects (MS(A)) was distinguished by higher expression of molecules involved in lymphocyte signaling pathways. Further, subjects in this MS(A) subset were more likely to have a new inflammatory event while on treatment with either GA or IFN- (P = 0.0077). We thus report a transcriptional signature that differentiates subjects with MS into two classes with different levels of disease activity.
OBJECTIVES:: To examine whether depressive symptoms are useful predictors of subjective memory complaints in community-dwelling older adults, beyond the predictive utility already provided by memory performance and characteristics of personality. DESIGN:: Using hierarchical regression, we examined the relationship between depressive symptoms and subjective memory complaints, controlling for age, gender, education, memory performance, conscientiousness, and neuroticism. PARTICIPANTS:: Community-dwelling older adults aged 66 to 90 years (N = 177) who responded to a newspaper advertisement for a memory study in Perth, Western Australia. MEASUREMENTS:: The General Frequency of Forgetting scale (for memory complaints), Depression Anxiety Stress Scales (for depressive symptoms), NEO-Five Factor Inventory (for conscientiousness and neuroticism), and the Visual Reproduction and Logical Memory subtests from the Wechsler Memory Scale-4th Edition (for visual and verbal memory). RESULTS:: The hierarchical regression analysis indicated that while depressive symptoms significantly predicted memory complaints after variance associated with age, gender, education, memory performance, and conscientiousness was partialled out, it accounted for almost none of the variance in complaints when neuroticism was partialled out. CONCLUSIONS:: The well-established relationship between depression and memory complaints may exist in some community-dwelling older adult populations only on account of the manner in which both are associated with neuroticism.





The brain has to weigh incoming sensory evidence against prior beliefs, the relative weight given to each depending on the relative uncertainties. Neuroscience now shows how the human brain accomplishes this.
The use of optogenetics to alter behavior in primates has been challenging, but now a group has managed to activate neurons in the monkey frontal cortex with light and show that this speeds up their performance.
Stroke is the third leading cause of death in the United States, Canada, Europe, and Japan. According to the American Heart Association and the American Stroke Association, there are now 750,000 new strokes that occur each year, resulting in 200,000 deaths, or 1 of every 16 deaths, per year in the United States alone. Endovascular therapy for patients with acute ischemic stroke is an area of intense investigation. The American Stroke Association has given a qualified endorsement of intra-arterial thrombolysis in selected patients. Intra-arterial thrombolysis has been studied in 2 randomized trials and numerous case series. Although 2 devices have been granted FDA phase 3 approval with an indication for mechanical stroke thrombectomy, none of these thrombectomy devices has demonstrated efficacy for the improvement of patient outcomes. The purpose of the present document is to define what constitutes adequate training to perform neuroendovascular procedures in patients with acute ischemic stroke and what performance standards should be adopted to assess outcomes. These guidelines have been written and approved by multiple neuroscience societies that historically have been directly involved in the medical, surgical and endovascular care of patients with acute stroke. These organizations include the Neurovascular Coalition and its participating societies, including the Society of NeuroInterventional Surgery (SNIS), American Academy of Neurology (AAN), American Association of Neurological Surgeons/Cerebrovascular Section (AANS/CNS), and Society of Vascular &amp; Interventional Neurology (SVIN).
Endovascular therapy in the acute management of ischemic stroke has become more common with technologic advances, such as easier navigation into the intracranial circulation and improved treatment efficacy with the advent of revascularization devices. This select review outlines milestones in the application of endovascular therapy in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) and offers some insight into important factors influencing the future directions of endovascular AIS treatment. In particular, we discuss the evolution of endovascular devices for AIS and how ingenuity continues to offer novel treatments. With these advances, the future of endovascular AIS treatment is promising.
Over the past 50 years, thrombolytic agents have been devised with the aim of recanalizing occluded coronary vessels, and later on, applied in the setting of acute ischemic stroke. Pharmacologic agents have generally targeted the plasminogen-plasmin transformation, facilitating the natural process of fibrinolysis. Newer agents with varying degrees of fibrin selectivity and pharmacologic half-life have influenced both recanalization rates and hemorrhagic complications, inside and outside the CNS. Intra-arterial (IA) administration of fibrinolytic agents increases delivery of the drug to the thrombus at a higher concentration with smaller quantities and therefore lowers systemic exposure. Mechanical thrombus disruption or extraction allows for drug delivery to a greater surface area of the thrombus. Delays associated with IA therapy may worsen the risk/benefit ratio of thrombolysis; therefore, combinations of IA-IV treatments have been studied. To date, there are no direct comparative trials to show that endovascular administration is more efficacious or carries a lower risk of hemorrhagic complications than IV tissue plasminogen activator.

Exosomes are microvesicles of endosomal origin that are secreted, and their contents (proteins, lipids, DNA, or microRNAs) can alter the physiological states of recipient cells. We demonstrated that phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN), a tumor suppressor protein normally localized in the cytoplasm and nucleus, was secreted in exosomes. Secreted PTEN was internalized by recipient cells with resultant functional activity, which resulted in reduced phosphorylation of the serine and threonine kinase Akt and reduced cellular proliferation. PTEN secretion in exosomes required Ndfip1, an adaptor protein for members of the Nedd4 family of E3 ubiquitin ligases. Without Ndfip1, neither Nedd4-1 nor Nedd4-2 promoted the recruitment of PTEN into exosomes. In addition, lysine 13 within PTEN, which is required for its ubiquitination by Nedd4-1, was required for exosomal transport of PTEN. These results implicate Ndfip1 as a molecular regulator of the exosomal export of PTEN, with consequences for non-cell-autonomous PTEN activity. Thus, we suggest that the ability of PTEN to exert phosphatase activity beyond the cell in which it is produced has implications for PTEN function during development, health, and disease.
We find interventions targeting serodiscordant couples (SDC) may not be feasible in countries where HIV prevalence is less than 5%, because only 3-19/1000 individuals are HIV-positive/negative and in SDC. Interventions may be feasible in countries where prevalence is greater than 10%, because 34-48/1000 individuals are HIV-positive/negative and in SDC. We calculated that 20-27% of all HIV-positive individuals, but less than 6% of all HIV-negative individuals, are in SDC. Consequently, targeting HIV-positive partners could significantly reduce transmission, whereas targeting HIV-negative partners may have little impact.

In recent years, the utilization of nanomaterials such as carbon nanotubes (CNTs) in the field of neuroscience has forever changed the approach to nerve-related research. The array of novel properties CNTs possess allows them to interact with neurons at the nanodimensional scale. In this study, a CNT rope substrate is developed to allow the electrical stimulation of neural stem cells (NSCs) in culture medium and the in situ observation of the response of these stem cells after stimulation. CNTs are synthesized by chemical vapor deposition and prepared into a ropelike structure with a diameter of 1 mm and length of 1.5 cm. NSCs are differentiated on the CNT rope substrate while the direction of neurite outgrowth, phenotype, and maturity of the NSCs are analyzed. Fluorescence and scanning electron microscopy demonstrate that neurite extension favors the direction of the spiral topography on the CNT rope. NSCs plated on CNT ropes are boosted towards differentiated neurons in the early culture stage when compared to conventional tissue culture plates via the analysis of neuronal gene and protein expressions by quantitative polymerase chain reaction and immunostaining, respectively. Furthermore, a set of electrical stimulation parameters (5 mV, 0.5 mA, 25 ms intermittent stimulation) promotes neuronal maturity while also increasing the speed of neurite outgrowth. These results indicate that an electroconductive CNT rope substrate along with electrical stimulation may have a synergistic effect on promoting neurite elongation and boosting effects on the differentiation of NSCs into mature neuronal cells for therapeutic application in neural regeneration.

Most neurodegenerative diseases involve the accumulation of misfolded proteins in the nervous system. Impairment of protein degradation pathways such as autophagy is emerging as a consistent and transversal pathological phenomenon in neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, Huntington's, and Parkinson's disease. Genetic inactivation of autophagy in mice has demonstrated a key role of the pathway in maintaining protein homeostasis in the brain, triggering massive neuronal loss and the accumulation of abnormal protein inclusions. However, the mechanism underlying neurodegeneration due to autophagy impairment remains elusive. A paper in Molecular Neurodegeneration from Abeliovich's group now suggests a role for phosphorylation of Tau and the activation of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) in driving neurodegeneration in autophagy-deficient neurons. We discuss the implications of this study for understanding the factors driving neurofibrillary tangle formation in Alzheimer's disease and tauopathies.
Dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis pathway is associated with several neuropsychiatric disorders, including post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), major depressive disorder (MDD), schizophrenia and alcohol abuse. Studies have demonstrated an association between HPA axis dysfunction and gene variants within the cortisol, serotonin and opioid signaling pathways. We characterized polymorphisms in genes linked to these three neurotransmitter pathways and tested their potential interactions with HPA axis activity, as measured by dexamethasone (DEX) suppression response. We determined the percent DEX suppression of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol in 62 unrelated, male rhesus macaques. While DEX suppression of cortisol was robust amongst 87% of the subjects, ACTH suppression levels were broadly distributed from -21% to 66%. Thirty-seven monkeys from the high and low ends of the ACTH suppression distribution (18 'high' and 19 'low' animals) were genotyped at selected polymorphisms in five unlinked genes (rhCRH, rhTPH2, rhMAOA, rhSLC6A4 and rhOPRM). Associations were identified between three variants (rhCRH-2610C&gt;T, rhTPH2 2051A&gt;C and rh5-HTTLPR) and level of DEX suppression of ACTH. In addition, a significant additive effect of the 'risk' genotypes from these three loci was detected, with an increasing number of 'risk' genotypes associated with a blunted ACTH response (P=0.0009). These findings suggest that assessment of multiple risk alleles in serotonin and cortisol signaling pathway genes may better predict risk for HPA axis dysregulation and associated psychiatric disorders than the evaluation of single gene variants alone.
Sirtuins are NAD-dependent protein deacetylases that were shown to have beneficial effects against age-related diseases. SIRT2 is a strong deacetylase that is highly expressed in brain. It has been associated with neurodegenerative diseases. 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is a dopaminergic neurotoxin that replicates most of the clinical features of Parkinson disease (PD) and produces a reliable and reproducible lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway and neurodegeneration after its systemic administration. Chronic administration of MPTP induces lesion via apoptosis. We show here that SIRT2 deacetylates Foxo3a, increases RNA and protein levels of Bim, and as a result, enhances apoptosis in the MPTP model of PD. We also show that neurodegeneration induced by chronic MPTP regimen is prevented by genetic deletion of SIRT2 in mouse. Deletion of SIRT2 leads to the reduction of apoptosis due to an increase in acetylation of Foxo3a and a decrease in Bim levels. We demonstrate that SIRT2 deacetylates Foxo3a, activates Bim, and induces apoptosis only in 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium-treated cells. Therefore, designing SIRT2 inhibitors might be helpful to develop effective treatments for PD.
GRN mutations cause frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43-positive inclusions. The mechanism of pathogenesis is haploinsufficiency. Recently, homozygous GRN mutations were detected in two patients with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, a lysosomal storage disease. It is unknown whether the pathogenesis of these two conditions is related. Progranulin is cleaved into smaller peptides called granulins. Progranulin and granulins are attributed with roles in cancer, inflammation, and neuronal physiology. Cell surface receptors for progranulin, but not granulin peptides, have been reported. Revealing the cell surface receptors and the intracellular functions of granulins and progranulin is crucial for understanding their contributions to neurodegeneration.
The acid-sensitive neuronal potassium leak channel, KCNK3, is vital for setting the resting membrane potential and is the primary target for volatile anesthetics. Recent reports demonstrate that KCNK3 activity is down-regulated by PKC; however, the mechanisms responsible for PKC-induced KCNK3 down-regulation are undefined. Here, we report that endocytic trafficking dynamically regulates KCNK3 activity. Phorbol esters and Group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation acutely decreased both native and recombinant KCNK3 currents with concomitant KCNK3 surface losses in cerebellar granule neurons and cell lines. PKC-mediated KCNK3 internalization required the presence of both 14-3-3 and a novel potassium channel endocytic motif, because depleting either 14-3-3 protein levels or ablating the endocytic motif completely abrogated PKC-regulated KCNK3 trafficking. These results demonstrate that neuronal potassium leak channels are not static membrane residents but are subject to 14-3-3-dependent regulated trafficking, providing a straightforward mechanism to modulate neuronal excitability and synaptic plasticity by Group I mGluRs.
Sleep length and metabolic dysfunction are correlated, but the causal relationship between these processes is unclear. Octopamine promotes wakefulness in the fly by acting through the insulin-producing cells (IPCs) in the fly brain. To determine if insulin signaling mediates the effects of octopamine on sleep:wake behavior, we assayed flies in which insulin signaling activity was genetically altered. We found that increasing insulin signaling does not promote wake, nor does insulin appear to mediate the wake-promoting effects of octopamine. Octopamine also affects metabolism in invertebrate species, including, as we show here, Drosophila melanogaster. Triglycerides are decreased in mutants with compromised octopamine signaling and elevated in flies with increased activity of octopaminergic neurons. Interestingly, this effect is mediated at least partially by insulin, suggesting that effects of octopamine on metabolism are independent of its effects on sleep. We further investigated the relative contribution of metabolic and sleep phenotypes to the starvation response of flies with altered octopamine signaling. Hyperactivity (indicative of foraging) induced by starvation was elevated in octopamine receptor mutants, despite their high propensity for sleep, indicating that their metabolic state dictates their behavioral response under these conditions. Moreover, flies with increased octopamine signaling do not suppress sleep in response to starvation, even though they are normally hyper-aroused, most likely because of their high triglyceride levels. Together, these data suggest that observed correlations between sleep and metabolic phenotypes can result from shared molecular pathways rather than causality, and environmental conditions can lead to the dominance of one phenotype over the other.

Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging is a key investigation technique in modern neuroscience. In clinical settings, diffusion-weighted imaging and its extension to diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) are usually performed applying the technique of echo-planar imaging (EPI). EPI is the commonly available ultrafast acquisition technique for single-shot acquisition with spatial encoding in a Cartesian system. A drawback of these sequences is their high sensitivity against small perturbations of the magnetic field, caused, e.g., by differences in magnetic susceptibility of soft tissue, bone and air. The resulting magnetic field inhomogeneities thus cause geometrical distortions and intensity modulations in diffusion-weighted images. This complicates the fusion with anatomical T1- or T2-weighted MR images obtained with conventional spin- or gradient-echo images and negligible distortion. In order to limit the degradation of diffusion-weighted MR data, we present here a variational approach based on a reference scan pair with reversed polarity of the phase- and frequency-encoding gradients and hence reversed distortion. The key novelty is a tailored nonlinear regularization functional to obtain smooth and diffeomorphic transformations. We incorporate the physical distortion model into a variational image registration framework and derive an accurate and fast correction algorithm. We evaluate the applicability of our approach to distorted DTI brain scans of six healthy volunteers. For all datasets, the automatic correction algorithm considerably reduced the image degradation. We show that, after correction, fusion with T1- or T2-weighted images can be obtained by a simple rigid registration. Furthermore, we demonstrate the improvement due to the novel regularization scheme. Most importantly, we show that it provides meaningful, i.e. diffeomorphic, geometric transformations, independent of the actual choice of the regularization parameters.



Adult zebrafish has a remarkable capability to recover from spinal cord injury, providing an excellent model for studying neuroregeneration. Here we list equipment and reagents, and give a detailed protocol for complete transection of the adult zebrafish spinal cord. In this protocol, potential problems and their solutions are described so that the zebrafish spinal cord injury model can be more easily and reproducibly performed. In addition, two assessments are introduced to monitor the success of the surgery and functional recovery: one test to assess free swimming capability and the other test to assess extent of neuroregeneration by invivo anterograde axonal tracing. In the swimming behavior test, successful complete spinal cord transection is monitored by the inability of zebrafish to swim freely for 1 week after spinal cord injury, followed by the gradual reacquisition of full locomotor ability within 6 weeks after injury. As a morphometric correlate, anterograde axonal tracing allows the investigator to monitor the ability of regenerated axons to cross the lesion site and increasingly extend into the gray and white matter with time after injury, confirming functional recovery. This zebrafish model provides a paradigm for recovery from spinal cord injury, enabling the identification of pathways and components of neuroregeneration.
Myelopoiesis is the process of producing all types of myeloid cells including monocytes/macrophages and granulocytes. Myeloid cells are known to manifest a wide spectrum of activities such as immune surveillance and tissue remodeling. Irregularities in myeloid cell development and their function are known to associate with the onset and the progression of a variety of human disorders such as leukemia. In the past decades, extensive studies have been carried out in various model organisms to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying myelopoiesis with the hope that these efforts will yield knowledge translatable into therapies for related diseases. Zebrafish has recently emerged as a prominent animal model for studying myelopoiesis, especially during early embryogenesis, largely owing to its unique properties such as transparent embryonic body and external development. This review introduces the methodologies used in zebrafish research and focuses on the recent research progresses of zebrafish myelopoiesis.


The ability to process relevant stimuli selectively is a fundamental function of the primate visual system. The best-understood correlate of this function is the enhanced response of neurons in the visual cortex to attended stimuli. However, recent results show that the superior colliculus (SC), a midbrain structure, also has a crucial role in visual attention. It has been assumed that the SC acts through the same well-known mechanisms in the visual cortex. Here we tested this hypothesis by transiently inactivating the SC during a motion-change-detection task and measuring responses in two visual cortical areas. We found that despite large deficits in visual attention, the enhanced responses of neurons in the visual cortex to attended stimuli were unchanged. These results show that the SC contributes to visual attention through mechanisms that are independent of the classic effects in the visual cortex, demonstrating that other processes must have key roles in visual attention.
We have defined functions of MEK in regulating gliogenesis in developing cerebral cortex using loss- and gain-of-function mouse genetics. Radial progenitors deficient in both Mek1 and Mek2 fail to transition to the gliogenic mode in late embryogenesis, and astrocyte and oligodendroglial precursors fail to appear. In exploring mechanisms, we found that the key cytokine-regulated gliogenic pathway is attenuated. Further, the Ets transcription family member Etv5/Erm is strongly regulated by MEK and Erm overexpression can rescue the gliogenic potential of Mek-deleted progenitors. Remarkably, Mek1/2-deleted mice surviving postnatally exhibit cortices almost devoid of astrocytes and oligodendroglia and exhibit neurodegeneration. Conversely, expression of constitutively active MEK1 leads to a major increase in numbers of astrocytes in the adult brain. We conclude that MEK is essential for acquisition of gliogenic competence by radial progenitors and that levels of MEK activity regulate gliogenesis in the developing cortex.
Sleep is composed of an alternating sequence of REM and non-REM episodes, but their respective roles are not known. We found that the overall firing rates of hippocampal CA1 neurons decreased across sleep concurrent with an increase in the recruitment of neuronal spiking to brief &quot;ripple&quot; episodes, resulting in a net increase in neural synchrony. Unexpectedly, within non-REM episodes, overall firing rates gradually increased together with a decrease in the recruitment of spiking to ripples. The rate increase within non-REM episodes was counteracted bya larger and more rapid decrease of discharge frequency within the interleaved REM episodes. Both the decrease in firing rates and the increase in synchrony during the course of sleep were correlated with the power of theta activity during REM episodes. These findings assign a prominent role of REM sleep in sleep-related neuronal plasticity.
The 3Rs--replacement, reduction, and refinement--are aimed at minimizing the welfare costs to animals used in research. Some neuroscientists fear that implementing the 3Rs will prohibit essential studies. Others view them as fundamental ethical principles that improve the quality of research. A regulatory system that integrates science and welfare is most likely to deliver public confidence.
Hippocampal dentate granule cell abnormalities are thought to play a causative role in temporal lobe epilepsy, but their precise contribution has not been dissociated from coexisting pathological changes. In this issue of Neuron, Pun etal. (2012) show, for the first time, that inducing proexcitatory changes in a subset of DGCs in isolation is sufficient to cause epilepsy in a rodent.
Much of Parkinson's research over the last decade has focused on cellular stress as a candidate mechanism. In this issue of Neuron, a new study by Matta etal. (2012) addressing the biological functions of the Parkinson's gene LRRK2 now identifies a presynaptic substrate, homing in on the idea that synapse loss might be a central early aspect of neurodegeneration.
Methamphetamine (METH) is an abused psychostimulant drug that can cause neurotoxicity to dopaminergic cells. It has been demonstrated that METH can induce caspase- and calpain-dependent death cascades. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the functional role of calpastatin, a specific endogenous calpain inhibitor protein, on caspase and calpain activation in METH-induced degeneration in neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cell cultures. In this study, we found that METH significantly decreased cell viability, tyrosine hydroxylase phosphorylation and calpastatin levels. Supplementation of cells with exogenous calpastatin was able to reverse the toxic effect of METH on reduction in cell viability and tyrosine hydroxylase phosphorylation. METH also significantly increased calpain levels, the formation of calpain-specific breakdown products and cleaved caspase-3 levels; once again, these effects were diminished by pretreating the cells with calpastatin. These data suggest the contribution of calpastatin as a potential regulatory factor for calpain- and caspase-dependent death processes.
The cyclin-cdk (cyclin-dependent kinase) inhibitor p27Kip1 (p27) has a crucial negative role on cell cycle progression. In addition to its classical role as a cyclin-cdk inhibitor, it also performs cyclin-cdk-independent functions as the regulation of cytoskeleton rearrangements and cell motility. p27 deficiency has been associated with tumor aggressiveness and poor clinical outcome, although the mechanisms underlying this participation still remain elusive. We report here a new cellular function of p27 as a transcriptional regulator in association with p130/E2F4 complexes that could be relevant for tumorigenesis. We observed that p27 associates with specific promoters of genes involved in important cellular functions as processing and splicing of RNA, mitochondrial organization and respiration, translation and cell cycle. On these promoters p27 co-localizes with p130, E2F4 and co-repressors as histone deacetylases (HDACs) and mSIN3A. p27 co-immunoprecipitates with these proteins and by affinity chromatography, we demonstrated a direct interaction of p27 with p130 and E2F4 through its carboxyl-half. We have also shown that p130 recruits p27 on the promoters, and there p27 is needed for the subsequent recruitment of HDACs and mSIN3A. Expression microarrays and luciferase assays revealed that p27 behaves as transcriptional repressor of these p27-target genes (p27-TGs). Finally, in human tumors, we established a correlation with overexpression of p27-TGs and poor survival. Thus, this new function of p27 as a transcriptional repressor could have a role in the major aggressiveness of tumors with low levels of p27.
Suvorexant is a dual orexin antagonist currently in Phase III clinical trials for the modulation of sleep and is being developed by Merck. Recent Phase III results showed that patients taking the drug fell asleep faster and slept longer than those on placebo.
The synthesis of phidianidines A and B, the first 1,2,4-oxadiazole-containing alkaloid, from the marine opisthobranch mollusk Phidiana militaris is reported. The synthesis proceeds in six steps from known indole acetic acids in 39.9% (phidianidine A) and 21% (phidianidine B) overall yields from commercially available materials. Biological characterization found that phidianidines A and B are selective inhibitors of DAT (versus SERT and NET) and a selective, potent ligand and partial agonist of the  opioid receptor (versus - and -opioid receptors). Moreover, neither phidianidines A and B are cytotoxic, and thus represent an attractive starting point for chemical optimization; therefore, we piloted a number of chemistries and prepared a diverse series of unnatural analogs.
Herein we review our recent efforts in searching for bioactive ligands by enumeration and virtual screening of the unknown chemical space of small molecules. Enumeration from first principles shows that almost all small molecules (&gt;99.9%) have never been synthesized and are still available to be prepared and tested. We discuss open access sources of molecules, the classification and representation of chemical space using molecular quantum numbers (MQN), its exhaustive enumeration in form of the chemical universe generated databases (GDB), and examples of using these databases for prospective drug discovery. MQN-searchable GDB, PubChem, and DrugBank are freely accessible at www.gdb.unibe.ch.


Ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine neurons are crucial for appetitive responses to Pavlovian cues, including cue-induced reinstatement of drug seeking. However, it is unknown which VTA inputs help activate these neurons, transducing stimuli into salient cues that drive drug-seeking behavior. Here we examined 56 VTA afferents from forebrain and midbrain that are Fos activated during cue-induced reinstatement. We injected the retrograde tracer cholera toxin  subunit (CTb) unilaterally into rostral or caudal VTA of male rats. All animals were trained to self-administer cocaine, then extinguished of this behavior. On a final test day, animals were exposed to response-contingent cocaine-associated cues, extinction conditions, a non-cocaine-predictive CS-, or a novel environment, and brains were processed to visualize CTb and Fos immunoreactivity to identify VTA afferents activated in relation to behaviors. VTA-projecting neurons in subregions of medial accumbens shell, ventral pallidum, elements of extended amygdala, and lateral septum (but not prefrontal cortex) were activated specifically during cue-induced cocaine seeking, and some of these were also activated proportionately to the degree of cocaine seeking. Surprisingly, though efferents from the lateral hypothalamic orexin field were also Fos activated during reinstatement, these were largely non-orexinergic. Also, VTA afferents from the rostromedial tegmental nucleus and lateral habenula were specifically activated during extinction and CS- tests, when cocaine was not expected. These findings point to a select set of subcortical nuclei which provide reinstatement-related inputs to VTA, translating conditioned stimuli into cocaine-seeking behavior.
Accumulating evidence shows that the oculomotor plant is capable of implementing aspects of three-dimensional kinematics such as Listing's law and the half-angle rule. But these studies have only examined the eye under static conditions or with movements that normally obey these rules (e.g., saccades and pursuit). Here we test the capability of the oculomotor plant to rearrange itself as necessary for non-half-angle behavior. Three monkeys (Macaca mulatta) fixated five vertically displaced targets along the midsagittal plane while sitting on a motion platform that rotated sinusoidally about the naso-occipital axis. This activated the torsional, rotational vestibulo-ocular reflex, which exhibits a zero-angle or negative-angle rule (depending on the visual stimulus). On random sinusoidal cycles, we stimulated the abducens nerve and observed the resultant eye movements. If the plant has rearranged itself to implement this non-half-angle behavior, then stimulation should reveal this behavior. On the other hand, if the plant is only capable of half-angle behavior, then stimulation should reveal a half-angle rule. We find the latter to be true and therefore additional neural signals are likely necessary to implement non-half-angle behavior.
Previous studies have shown that injured dorsal column sensory axons extend across a spinal cord lesion site if axons are guided by a gradient of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) rostral to the lesion. Here we examined whether continuous NT-3 delivery is necessary to sustain regenerated axons in the injured spinal cord. Using tetracycline-regulated (tet-off) lentiviral gene delivery, NT-3 expression was tightly controlled by doxycycline administration. To examine axon growth responses to regulated NT-3 expression, adult rats underwent a C3 dorsal funiculus lesion. The lesion site was filled with bone marrow stromal cells, tet-off-NT-3 virus was injected rostral to the lesion site, and the intrinsic growth capacity of sensory neurons was activated by a conditioning lesion. When NT-3 gene expression was turned on, cholera toxin -subunit-labeled sensory axons regenerated into and beyond the lesion/graft site. Surprisingly, the number of regenerated axons significantly declined when NT-3 expression was turned off, whereas continued NT-3 expression sustained regenerated axons. Quantification of axon numbers beyond the lesion demonstrated a significant decline of axon growth in animals with transient NT-3 expression, only some axons that had regenerated over longer distance were sustained. Regenerated axons were located in white matter and did not form axodendritic synapses but expressed presynaptic markers when closely associated with NG2-labeled cells. A decline in axon density was also observed within cellular grafts after NT-3 expression was turned off possibly via reduction in L1 and laminin expression in Schwann cells. Thus, multiple mechanisms underlie the inability of transient NT-3 expression to fully sustain regenerated sensory axons.
Current theories of classical conditioning assume that learning depends on the predictive relationship between events, not just on their temporal contiguity. Here we employ the classic experiment substantiating this reasoning-the blocking paradigm-in combination with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate whether human amygdala responses in aversive learning conform to these assumptions. In accordance with blocking, we demonstrate that significantly stronger behavioral and amygdala responses are evoked by conditioned stimuli that are predictive of the unconditioned stimulus than by conditioned stimuli that have received the same pairing with the unconditioned stimulus, yet have no predictive value. When studying the development of this effect, we not only observed that it was related to the strength of previous conditioned responses, but also that predictive compared with nonpredictive conditioned stimuli received more overt attention, as measured by fMRI-concurrent eye tracking, and that this went along with enhanced amygdala responses. We furthermore observed that prefrontal regions play a role in the development of the blocking effect: ventromedial prefrontal cortex (subgenual anterior cingulate) only exhibited responses when conditioned stimuli had to be established as nonpredictive for an outcome, whereas dorsolateral prefrontal cortex also showed responses when conditioned stimuli had to be established as predictive. Most importantly, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex connectivity to amygdala flexibly switched between positive and negative coupling, depending on the requirements posed by predictive relationships. Together, our findings highlight the role of predictive value in explaining amygdala responses and identify mechanisms that shape these responses in human fear conditioning.
Ammonia is metabolized by the liver and has established neurological effects. The current study examined the possibility that ammonia contributes to the neurotoxic effects of methamphetamine (METH). The results show that a binge dosing regimen of METH to the rat increased plasma and brain ammonia concentrations that were paralleled by evidence of hepatotoxicity. The role of peripheral ammonia in the neurotoxic effects of METH was further substantiated by the demonstration that the enhancement of peripheral ammonia excretion blocked the increases in brain and plasma ammonia and attenuated the long-term depletions of dopamine and serotonin typically produced by METH. Conversely, the localized perfusion of ammonia in combination with METH, but not METH alone or ammonia alone, into the striatum recapitulated the neuronal damage produced by the systemic administration of METH. Furthermore, this damage produced by the local administration of ammonia and METH was blocked by the GYKI 52466 [4-(8-methyl-9H-1,3-dioxolo[4,5-h][2,3]benzodiazepin-5-yl)-benzamine hydrochloride], an AMPA receptor antagonist. These findings highlight the importance of ammonia derived from the periphery as a small-molecule mediator of METH neurotoxicity and more broadly emphasize the importance of peripheral organ damage as a possible mechanism that mediates the neuropathology produced by drugs of abuse and other neuroactive molecules.
Astrocytes contribute to many neuronal functions, including synaptogenesis, but their role in the development of synaptic plasticity remains unclear. Presynaptic muting of hippocampal glutamatergic terminals defends against excitotoxicity. Here we studied the role of astrocytes in the development of presynaptic muting at glutamatergic synapses in rat hippocampal neurons. We found that astrocytes were critical for the development of depolarization-dependent and G(i/o)-dependent presynaptic muting. The ability of cAMP analogues to modulate presynaptic function was also impaired by astrocyte deficiency. Although astrocyte deprivation resulted in postsynaptic glutamate receptor deficits, this effect appeared independent of astrocytes' role in presynaptic muting. Muting was restored with chronic, but not acute, treatment with astrocyte-conditioned medium, indicating that a soluble factor is permissive for muting. Astrocyte-derived thrombospondins (TSPs) are likely responsible because TSP1 mimicked the effect of conditioned medium, and gabapentin, a high-affinity antagonist of TSP binding to the 2-1 calcium channel subunit, mimicked astrocyte deprivation. We found evidence that protein kinase A activity is abnormal in astrocyte-deprived neurons but restored by TSP1, so protein kinase A dysfunction may provide a mechanism by which muting is disrupted during astrocyte deficiency. In summary our results suggest an important role for astrocyte-derived TSPs, acting through 2-1, in maturation of a potentially important form of presynaptic plasticity.
Methylphenidate (MPH) is a stimulant that increases extracellular levels of dopamine and noradrenaline. It can diminish risky decision-making tendencies in certain clinical populations. MPH is also used, without license, by healthy adults, but the impact on their decision-making is not well established. Previous work has found that dopamine receptor activity of healthy adults can modulate the influence of stake magnitude on decisions to persistently gamble after incurring a loss. In this study, we tested for modulation of this effect by MPH in 40 healthy human adults. In a double-blind experiment, 20 subjects received 20 mg of MPH, while 20 matched controls received a placebo. All were provided with 30 rounds of opportunities to accept an incurred loss from their assets or opt for a &quot;double-or-nothing&quot; gamble that would either avoid or double it. Rounds began with a variable loss that would double with every failed gamble until it was accepted, recovered, or reached a specified maximum. Probability of recovery on any gamble was low and ambiguous. Subjects receiving placebo gambled less as the magnitude of the stake was raised and as the magnitude of accumulated loss escalated over the course of the task. In contrast, subjects treated with MPH gambled at a consistent rate, well above chance, across all stakes and trials. Trait reward responsiveness also reduced the impact of high stakes. The findings suggest that elevated catecholamine activity by MPH can disrupt inhibitory influences on persistent risky choice in healthy adults.
The role of dentate gyrus in hippocampal mnemonic processing is uncertain. One proposed role of dentate gyrus is binding internally generated spatial representation with sensory information on external landmarks. To test this hypothesis, we compared effects of visual input on spatial firing of CA1 neurons in Bax knock-out mice in which dentate gyrus neural circuitry is selectively disrupted. Whereas spatial selectivity of CA1 neuronal firing was significantly higher under normal illumination than complete darkness in wild-type mice, it was similarly low in both illumination conditions in Bax knock-out mice. Also, whereas the spatial location of neuronal firing was more stably maintained in the light than in the dark condition in wild-type mice, it was similarly unstable in both illumination conditions in Bax knock-out mice. These results show that visual input allows selective and stable spatial firing of CA1 neurons in normal animals, but this effect is lost if dentate gyrus neural circuitry is disrupted. Our results provide empirical support for the proposed role of dentate gyrus in aligning internally generated spatial representation to external landmarks in building a unified representation of external space.
How content is stored in the human brain during visual short-term memory (VSTM) is still an open question. Different theories postulate storage of remembered stimuli in prefrontal, parietal, or visual areas. Aiming at a distinction between these theories, we investigated the content-specificity of BOLD signals from various brain regions during a VSTM task using multivariate pattern classification. To participate in memory maintenance, candidate regions would need to have information about the different contents held in memory. We identified two brain regions where local patterns of fMRI signals represented the remembered content. Apart from the previously established storage in visual areas, we also discovered an area in the posterior parietal cortex where activity patterns allowed us to decode the specific stimuli held in memory. Our results demonstrate that storage in VSTM extends beyond visual areas, but no frontal regions were found. Thus, while frontal and parietal areas typically coactivate during VSTM, maintenance of content in the frontoparietal network might be limited to parietal cortex.


The DBA/2J inbred strain of mice has been used extensively in hearing research as it suffers from early-onset, progressive hearing loss. Initially, it mostly affects high frequencies, but already at 2-3months hearing loss becomes broad. In search for hearing loss genes other than Cadherin 23 (otocadherin) and fascin-2, which make a large contribution to the high-frequency deficits, we used a large set of the genetic reference population of BXD recombinant inbred strains. For frequencies 4, 8, 16 and 32 kHz, auditory brainstem response hearing thresholds were longitudinally determined from 2-3 up to 12weeks of age. Apart from a significant, broad quantitative trait locus (QTL) for high-frequency hearing loss on chromosome 11 containing the fascin-2 gene, we found a novel, small QTL for low-frequency hearing loss on chromosome 18, from hereon called ahl9. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction of organs of Corti, isolated from a subset of strains, showed that a limited number of genes at the QTL were expressed in the organ of Corti. Of those genes, several showed significant expression differences based on the parental line contributing to the allele. Our results may aid in the future identification of genes involved in low-frequency, early-onset hearing loss.

Patients suffering from homonymous hemianopia after infarction of the posterior cerebral artery (PCA) report different degrees of constraint in daily life, despite similar visual deficits. We assume this could be due to variable development of compensatory strategies such as altered visual scanning behavior. Scanning compensatory therapy (SCT) is studied as part of the visual training after infarction next to vision restoration therapy. SCT consists of learning to make larger eye movements into the blind field enlarging the visual field of search, which has been proven to be the most useful strategy(1), not only in natural search tasks but also in mastering daily life activities(2). Nevertheless, in clinical routine it is difficult to identify individual levels and training effects of compensatory behavior, since it requires measurement of eye movements in a head unrestrained condition. Studies demonstrated that unrestrained head movements alter the visual exploratory behavior compared to a head-restrained laboratory condition(3). Martin et al.(4) and Hayhoe et al.(5) showed that behavior demonstrated in a laboratory setting cannot be assigned easily to a natural condition. Hence, our goal was to develop a study set-up which uncovers different compensatory oculomotor strategies quickly in a realistic testing situation: Patients are tested in the clinical environment in a driving simulator. SILAB software (Wuerzburg Institute for Traffic Sciences GmbH (WIVW)) was used to program driving scenarios of varying complexity and recording the driver's performance. The software was combined with a head mounted infrared video pupil tracker, recording head- and eye-movements (EyeSeeCam, University of Munich Hospital, Clinical Neurosciences). The positioning of the patient in the driving simulator and the positioning, adjustment and calibration of the camera is demonstrated. Typical performances of a patient with and without compensatory strategy and a healthy control are illustrated in this pilot study. Different oculomotor behaviors (frequency and amplitude of eye- and head-movements) are evaluated very quickly during the drive itself by dynamic overlay pictures indicating where the subjects gaze is located on the screen, and by analyzing the data. Compensatory gaze behavior in a patient leads to a driving performance comparable to a healthy control, while the performance of a patient without compensatory behavior is significantly worse. The data of eye- and head-movement-behavior as well as driving performance are discussed with respect to different oculomotor strategies and in a broader context with respect to possible training effects throughout the testing session and implications on rehabilitation potential.



The hippocampus plays a critical role in contextual fear conditioning. Population activity in the hippocampal CA1 encoding the surrounding environment is thought to be responsible for retrieval of contextual fear memory. However, the characteristics of CA1 neuronal ensemble activity during retrieval of contextual fear memory remain unclear. Here, we examined CA1 ensemble activity during contextual fear memory expression in male C57Bl/6J mice, using Arc cellular compartment analysis of temporal activity by fluorescence in situ hybridization. The &quot;Shock&quot; group was conditioned with a footshock in two separate chambers, whereas the &quot;No shock&quot; group was not exposed to shocks in the chamber. Animals were then re-exposed to either the same chamber twice or two different conditioning chambers. In the No shock group, exposure to the same chamber twice activated a more significantly overlapping neuronal population than exposure to two different chambers. In the Shock group, exposure to the same conditioning chamber twice activated a similarly overlapping neuronal population as exposure to two different chambers, with overlap smaller than in nonshocked mice exposed to the same chamber twice. Thus, population activity in the hippocampal CA1 encoding the surrounding environment is detected during spatial exploration, but absent during contextual fear memory expression. Even the variable ensemble activity of CA1 may contribute to retrieval of contextual fear memory.
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating progressive neurodegenerative disease. One of the proposed disease mechanisms is excitotoxicity, in which excessive cytosolic calcium causes neuronal death. Although most calcium may originate from the extracellular space through activation of calcium-permeable AMPA receptors, we investigated in this study the contribution of endoplasmic reticulum calcium release by blocking the ryanodine receptor (RyR) using dantrolene. In vitro, dantrolene provides a significant protection to motor neurons exposed to a brief excitotoxic insult. However, daily administration of dantrolene to mice overexpressing superoxide dismutase 1 glycine to alanine at position 93 (SOD1(G93A)) does affect neither survival nor the number of motor neurons and ubiquitin aggregates indicating that calcium release through RyRs does not contribute to the selective motor neuron death in this animal model for ALS.
The performance of a repetitive index finger flexion-extension task at maximal voluntary rate (MVR) begins to decline just a few seconds into the task and we have previously postulated that this breakdown has a central origin. To test this hypothesis, we have combined two objectives; to determine whether motor practice can lessen the performance deterioration in an MVR task, and whether further gains can be achieved with a transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) protocol that increases corticomotor excitability (CME). Eleven right-handed subjects participated in a randomized crossover study design that consisted of a 15-min interventional TMS at I-wave periodicity (ITMS) and single-pulsed Sham intervention prior to six 10-s practice sets of a repetitive finger flexion-extension task at MVR. Motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded from the first dorsal interosseous muscle. The starting movement rate, and the percentage decline in rate by the end of the MVR were quantitated. Training of the MVR task improved the sustainability of the task by reducing the decline in movement rate. CME increased steadily after each training bout, and this increase was maintained up to 20 min after the last bout. ITMS further increased CME, and was associated with an increase in both the starting rate of the MVR task and its sustainability, when compared to Sham. The results implicate central motor processes in the performance and sustainability of the MVR task, and indicate that MVR kinematics can improve with short-term training and with non-invasive neuro-modulation.
We have recently reported on the efficacy of an NK1 tachykinin receptor antagonist in improving outcome following stroke, including reduced blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, reduced cerebral edema and improved functional outcome. The clinically approved stroke treatment, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), has been associated with an increased risk of hemorrhage and death, if given at later time points. Accordingly, adjunctive therapies have been investigated to reduce the adverse effects of tPA and improve outcome. The aim of the present study was to characterize the effects of a combination of an NK1 tachykinin receptor antagonist with tPA, on BBB permeability and functional outcome following transient ischemic stroke in rats. Stroke was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats using a reversible thread model of middle cerebral artery occlusion where occlusion was maintained for 2h, followed by reperfusion. Animals received either 25mg/kg of N-acetyl-l-tryptophan or 1mg/kg of tPA, either alone or in combination, or equal volume saline vehicle, intravenously at the time of reperfusion. Functional outcome was assessed by the rotarod, bilateral asymmetry test, modified neuroscore and open field tests. BBB permeability was assessed by Evans Blue extravasation. Combination therapy of an NK1 tachykinin receptor antagonist with tPA significantly reduced BBB permeability, functional deficits and the incidence of intracerebral hemorrhage and death. As such, combined tPA-NK1 tachykinin receptor antagonist treatment may represent a novel therapeutic intervention for the treatment of reperfusion injury in acute ischemic stroke.
The aim of this study was to examine the rapid non-genomic effect of 17-estradiol (E2) on Ca(2+) transport in mitochondria isolated from the nerve terminals (synaptosomes) of caudate nuclei (NC) and brain stems (BS) of ovariectomised female rats. In physiological conditions no effect of E2 on Ca(2+) influx into synaptosomal mitochondria through ruthenium red (RR)-sensitive uniporter was observed. However, in the presence of uncoupling agent carbonyl cyanide4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone (FCCP) (1mol/l), pre-treatment with 0.5nmol/l E2 protected mitochondrial membrane potential and consequently increased Ca(2+) influx (2.3-fold in NC and 3.1-fold in BS). At the same time, 0.5nmol/l E2 by increasing the affinity of mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger for Na(+) inhibited mitochondrial Ca(2+) efflux in NC and BS by about 40%. Also, the specific binding of physiological E2 concentrations (0.1-10nmol/l) to isolated synaptosomal mitochondria was detected. Using membrane impermeable E2 bound to bovine serum albumin and selective inhibitor of mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger, we obtained that E2's action on mitochondrial Ca(2+) efflux at least partially is due to the direct effects on the mitochondrial membrane and/or Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger located in inner mitochondrial membrane. Our results implicate E2 as a modulator of Ca(2+) concentration in mitochondrial matrix, and ultimately in the cytosol. Given the vital role of Ca(2+) in regulation of total nerve cells activity, especially energy metabolism, neurotransmission and directing the cells toward survival or cell death, the effects on mitochondrial Ca(2+) transport could be one of the important modes of E2 neuromodulatory action independent of the genome.
According to social psychology models of adult attachment, a fundamental dimension of attachment is anxiety. Individuals who are high in attachment anxiety are motivated to achieve intimacy in relationships, but are mistrustful of others and their availability. Behavioral research has shown that anxiously attached persons are vigilant for emotional facial expression, but the neural substrates underlying this perceptual sensitivity remain largely unknown. In the present study functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to examine automatic brain reactivity to approach-related facial emotions as a function of attachment anxiety in a sample of 109 healthy adults. Pictures of sad and happy faces were presented masked by neutral faces. The Relationship Scales Questionnaire (RSQ) was used to assess attachment style. Attachment anxiety was correlated with depressivity, trait anxiety, and attachment avoidance. Controlling for these variables, attachment-related anxiety was positively related to responses in left inferior, middle, and medial prefrontal areas, globus pallidus, claustrum, and right cerebellum to masked happy facial expression. Attachment anxiety was not found to be associated with brain activation due to masked sad faces. Our findings suggest that anxiously attached adults are automatically more responsive to positive approach-related facial expression in brain areas that are involved in the perception of facial emotion, facial mimicry, or the assessment of affective value and social distance.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a fatal genetic motor disorder of infants, is caused by diminished full-length survival of motor neuron (SMN) protein levels. Normally involved in small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP) assembly and pre-mRNA splicing, recent studies suggest that SMN plays a critical role in regulating apoptosis. Interestingly, the anti-apoptotic Bcl-x isoform, Bcl-xL, is reduced in SMA. In a related finding, Sam68, an RNA-binding protein, was found to modulate splicing of SMN and Bcl-xL transcripts, promoting SMN7 and pro-apoptotic Bcl-xS transcripts. Here we demonstrate that Bcl-xL expression increases SMN protein by 2-fold in SH-SY5Y cells. Conversely, SMN expression increases Bcl-xL protein levels by 6-fold in SH-SY5Y cells, and 2.5-fold in the brains of transgenic mice over-expressing SMN (PrP-SMN). Moreover, Sam68 protein levels were markedly reduced following SMN and Bcl-xL expression in SH-SY5Y cells, suggesting a feedback mechanism co-regulating levels of both proteins. We also found that exogenous SMN expression increased full-length SMN transcripts, possibly by promoting exon 7 inclusion. Finally, co-expression of SMN and Bcl-xL produced an additive anti-apoptotic effect following PI3-kinase inhibition in SH-SY5Y cells. Our findings implicate Bcl-xL as another potential target in SMA therapeutics, and indicate that therapeutic increases in SMN may arise from modest increases in total SMN.
In the brain of neonatal chicks, tryptophan has a sedative effect, and a part of this effect might be dependent upon its metabolite, serotonin. However, the functional mechanisms have not been fully clarified, since l-tryptophan produces kynurenic acid (KYNA) through the kynurenine pathway. The present study aimed to clarify the effect of KYNA on the stress response upon social isolation. Intracerebroventricular injection of KYNA induced a strong sedative effect under stress compared with the effect of l-tryptophan, with or without intracerebroventricular injection of corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH). KYNA dose-dependently induced sedative and hypnotic effects under CRH-augmented social isolation stress. Taken together, these results indicate that KYNA is a likely candidate for the sedative and hypnotic effects of tryptophan under acutely stressful conditions.
Early-life adversity is associated with dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and increased susceptibility to later-life psychopathology. Specifically, there is mounting evidence suggesting that the immune system plays an important role in central nervous system (CNS) development and in the programing of behavior. The current study investigated how early-life immune challenge affects the development of CNS stress neurocircuitry by examining the gene expression profile of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), CRH receptors, and the major corticosteroid receptors within the limbic-hypothalamic circuit of the developing rodent brain. Mice were administered a 0.05 mg/kg lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection on postnatal day (P) 3 and 5 and gene expression was assessed using in situ hybridization from P14 to P28. Target genes investigated were CRH, CRH receptor-1 (CRHR1), CRH receptor-2, the mineralocorticoid receptor, and the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). Early LPS challenge resulted in a transient decrease in CRHR1 mRNA expression in the cornuammonis 1 (CA1) and CA3 regions of the hippocampus that were accompanied by increased hippocampal GR mRNA expression in the CA1 region between P14 and P21. This was followed by increased hypothalamic CRH expression in LPS-mice on P28. Our current findings suggest that early-life LPS challenge impacts the developmental trajectory of CNS stress neurocircuitry. These results lend insight into the molecular basis for the later development of stress-related behaviors as previously described in early immune challenge rodents.
Oxidative stress contributes significantly to brain aging. Animals lacking glutamate transporter type 3 (EAAT3) have a decreased level of glutathione, the major intracellular anti-oxidant, in neurons, and present with early onset of brain aging including brain atrophy and cognitive impairment at 11 months of age. Here, 12-month-old male EAAT3 knockout mice received intraperitoneal injection of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) at 150 mg/kg once every day for 4 weeks. NAC is a membrane permeable cysteine precursor that can work as a substrate for glutathione synthesis. EAAT3 knockout mice that received saline injection or did not receive any injection were also included in the study. EAAT3 knockout mice had significantly less freezing behavior than age- and gender-matched wild-type mice in context- and tone-related fear conditioning tests. The knockout mice also had decreased levels of glutathione and increased levels of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal and proteins containing nitrotyrosine, indicators of oxidative stress, in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. NAC but not saline injection attenuated these behavioral and biochemical changes in the EAAT3 knockout mice. These results suggest that improvement of anti-oxidative capacity in neurons reverses the existing cognitive impairment in aging brains, implying a potential role of glutathione replacement in cognitive improvement of aging population.
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in elderly people. The presynaptic terminal is an important site of pathological changes in AD, leading to synaptic loss in specific brain regions, such as in the cortex and hippocampus. In this study, we investigated synaptosomal-associated protein, 25-kDa (SNAP25) mRNA levels and promoter DNA methylation in post mortem brain tissues (entorhinal and auditory cortices and hippocampus) from healthy elderly and AD subjects as well as in peripheral blood leukocytes of young, healthy elderly and AD patients. mRNA quantification was performed by quantitative Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (qRT-PCR) using the C(T) method and promoter DNA methylation was quantified by mass spectrometry using the Sequenom EpiTYPER platform. We observed a significant decrease in SNAP25 expression in AD across all the three brain regions in relation to the healthy elderly subjects, suggesting impairment in synaptic function. The changes in the auditory cortex reflected those observed in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex, the primary areas affected in AD. However, no AD-associated differences in SNAP25 promoter DNA methylation were observed suggesting that other mechanisms may be involved in mediating the observed gene expression changes.
The Ts65Dn (TS) mouse model of Down syndrome (DS) displays a number of behavioral, neuromorphological and neurochemical phenotypes of the syndrome. Altered GABAergic transmission appears to contribute to the mechanisms responsible for the cognitive impairments in TS mice. Increased functional expression of the trisomic gene encoding an inwardly rectifying potassium channel, subfamily J, member 6 (KCNJ6) has been reported in DS and TS mice, along with the consequent impairment in GAB Aergic function. Partial display of DS phenotypes in mice harboring a single trisomy of Kcnj6 provides compelling evidence for a functional role of increased channel expression in some of the abnormal neurological phenotypes found in DS. Notably, the antiepileptic drug (AED) ethosuximide (ETH), but not other AEDs such as gabapentin (GAB), is known to inhibit KCNJ6 channels in mice. Here, we report the effect of chronic ETH and GAB on the behavioral and cognitive phenotypes of TS and disomic control (CO) mice. Neither drug significantly affected sensorimotor abilities, motor coordination or spontaneous activity in TS and CO mice. Also, ETH and GAB did not induce anxiety in the open field or plus maze tests, did not alter performance in the Morris water maze, and did not affect cued - or context - fear conditioning. Our results thus suggest that KCNJ6 may not be a promising drug target candidate in DS. As a corollary, they also show that long-term use of ETH and GAB is devoid of adverse behavioral and cognitive effects.
A significant number of women suffer from depression during pregnancy and the postpartum period. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are commonly used to treat maternal depression. While maternal stress and depression have long-term effects on the physical and behavioural development of offspring, numerous studies also point to a significant action of developmental exposure to SSRIs. Surprisingly, preclinical data are limited concerning the combined effect of maternal depression and maternal SSRI exposure on neurobehavioural outcomes in offspring. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to determine how maternal fluoxetine treatment affects the developing HPA system of adolescent male and female offspring using a model of maternal adversity. To do this, gestationally stressed and non-stressed Sprague-Dawley rat dams were chronically treated throughout lactation with either fluoxetine (5mg/kg/day) or vehicle. Four groups of male and female adolescent offspring were used: (1) Prenatal Stress+Fluoxetine, (2) Prenatal Stress+Vehicle, (3) Fluoxetine alone, and (4) Vehicle alone. Primary results show that developmental fluoxetine exposure, regardless of prenatal stress, decreases circulating levels of corticosterone and reduces the expression of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), and its coactivator the GR interacting protein (GRIP1), in the hippocampus. Interestingly, these effects occurred primarily in male, and not in female, adolescent offspring. Together, these results highlight a marked sex difference in the long-term effect of developmental exposure to SSRI medications that may differentially alter the capacity of the hippocampus to respond to stress.
Extracellular nucleotides exert their actions via two subfamilies of purinoceptors: P2X and P2Y. Eight mammalian P2Y receptor subtypes (P2Y(1,2,4,6,11,12,13,14)) have been identified. In this work, the localization of P2Y(6) was studied in rat retina using double immunofluorescence labeling and confocal scanning microscopy. Immunostaining for P2Y(6) was strong in the outer plexiform layer and was diffusely distributed throughout the full thickness of the inner plexiform layer. In addition, P2Y(6) immunoreactivity was clearly observed in many cells in the inner nuclear layer and the ganglion cell layer. In the outer retina photoreceptor terminals, labeled by VGluT1, and horizontal cells, labeled by calbindin, were P2Y(6)-positive. However, no P2Y(6) immunostaining was detected in bipolar cells, labeled by homeobox protein Chx10. In the inner retina P2Y(6) was localized to most of GABAergic amacrine cells, including dopaminergic and cholinergic ones, stained by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) respectively. Some of glycinergic amacrine cells, but not glycinergic AII amacrine cells, were also labeled by P2Y(6). Moreover, P2Y(6) immunoreactivity was seen in almost all ganglion cells, labeled by Brn3a. In Mller glial cells, stained by cellular retinaldehyde binding protein (CRALBP), however, no P2Y(6) expression was found in both somata and processes. We speculate that P2Y(6) may be involved in retinal information processing in different ways, probably by regulating the release of transmitters and/or modulating the radial flow of visual signals and lateral interaction mediated by horizontal and amacrine cells.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD) the complex interplay between environment and genetics has hampered the identification of effective therapeutics. However, epigenetic mechanisms could underlie this complexity. Here, we explored the potential role of epigenetic alterations in AD by investigating gene expression levels and chromatin remodeling in selected AD-related genes. Analysis was performed in the brain of the triple transgenic animal model of AD (3xTg-AD) and in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients diagnosed with AD or Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). BACE1 mRNA levels were increased in aged 3xTg-AD mice as well as in AD PBMCs along with an increase in promoter accessibility and histone H3 acetylation, while the BACE1 promoter region was less accessible in PBMCs from MCI individuals. Ncstn was downregulated in aged 3xTg-AD brains with a condensation of chromatin and Sirt1 mRNA levels were decreased in these animals despite alterations in histone H3 acetylation. Neither gene was altered in AD PBMCs. The ADORA2A gene was not altered in patients or in the 3xTg-AD mice. Overall, our results suggest that chromatin remodeling plays a role in mRNA alterations in AD, prompting for broader and more detailed studies of chromatin and other epigenetic alterations and their potential use as biomarkers in AD.
Cortical surface area has been largely overlooked in genetic studies of human brain morphometry, even though phylogenetic differences in cortical surface area between individuals are known to be influenced by differences in genetic endowment. In this study, we examined the relative contribution of genetic and environmental influences on cortical surface areas in both the native and stereotaxic spaces for a cohort of homogeneously-aged healthy pediatric twins. Bilateral hemispheric surface and all lobar surface areas except the occipital lobes in native space showed high heritable estimates, while the common environmental effect on bilateral occipital lobes reached statistical significance. The proportion of genetic variance for cortical surface areas measured in stereotaxic space was lower than that measured in native space, whereas the unique environmental influences increased. This is reasonable since whole brain volume is also known to be heritable itself and so removing that component of areal variance due to overall brain size via stereotaxic transformation will reduce the genetic proportion. These findings further suggest that cortical surface areas involved in cognitive, attention and emotional processing, as well as in creating and retaining of long-term memories are likely to be more useful for examining the relationship between genotype and behavioral phenotypes.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a potentially fatal complication of acute liver failure, associated with severe neurological dysfunction and coma. The brain's innate immune cells, microglia, have recently been implicated in the pathophysiology of HE. To date, however, only ex vivo studies have been used to characterize microglial involvement. Our study uses in vivo two-photon imaging of awake-behaving mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) under the Cx3cr1 promoter to examine microglial involvement in two different models of encephalopathy - a slower, fatal model of azoxymethane-induced HE and a rapid, reversible acute hyperammonemic encephalopathy (AHE) induced by an ammonia load. To investigate the potential contribution of microglia to the neurological deterioration seen in these two models, we developed a software to analyze microglial activation and motility in vivo. In HE, we found that microglia do not become activated prior to the onset of neurological dysfunction, but undergo activation with mildly impaired motility during the terminal stage IV. We demonstrate that this microglial activation coincides with blood-brain barrier (BBB) opening and brain edema. Conversely, both microglial activation and motility are unchanged during AHE, despite the mice developing pathologically increased plasma ammonia and severe neurological dysfunction. Our study indicates that microglial activation does not contribute to the early neurological deterioration observed in either HE or AHE. The late microglial activation in HE may therefore be associated with terminal BBB opening and brain edema, thus exacerbating the progression to coma and increasing mortality.
Ginsenoside Rg1, which could improve spatial learning and memory, might be a useful agent for preventing and treating cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The present study was designed to test the neuroprotective effects of ginsenoside Rg1 on an ovariectomized (OVX) and d-galactose (d-gal)-injected rat model of AD, which is characterized with progressive learning and memory deficits, AD-related molecules alteration and differentiation/apoptosis imbalance in hippocampal neurons. OVX Wistar rats received daily injections of d-gal (100mg/kg) combined with different concentrations of ginsenoside Rg1 (5, 10, 20mg/kg) or 17--estradiol (E2, 100 g/kg), or normal saline (NS, 1.0 ml/kg) for 6 weeks. Ovarian steroid deprivation plus d-gal injection led to spatial learning and memory capacity impairments, as well as increased A(1-42) production. Ginsenoside Rg1 and E2-treatment significantly ameliorated these deteriorations in AD rats. Seven weeks after surgery, -secretase a disintegrin and metallopeptidase domain 10 (ADAM 10) in hippocampus of AD rats was dramatically decreased, while -secretase -site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE 1) increased compared with those in sham-operated ones (P&lt;0.05). Levels of cleaved caspase 3 were increased in the hippocampus of AD rats. Ginsenoside Rg1 and E2-treatment increased ADAM 10 level while reduced BACE 1 level and apoptosis. Moreover, moderate i.e. 10mg/kg/d and high i.e. 20mg/kg/d ginsenoside Rg1 displayed more effective function than low i.e. 5mg/kg/d ginsenoside Rg1. Our findings demonstrate the neuroprotective effects of ginsenoside Rg1 and E2 on AD rats and support the potential application of ginsenoside Rg1 in the treatment of learning and memory impairments in postmenopausal women.
Congenital muscular dystrophies (CMDs) with associated brain abnormalities are a group of disorders characterized by muscular dystrophy and brain and eye abnormalities that are frequently caused by mutations in known or putative glycotransferases involved in protein O-mannosyl glycosylation. Previous work identified -dystroglycan as the major substrate for O-mannosylation and its altered glycosylation the major cause of these disorders. However, work from several labs indicated that other proteins in the brain are also O-mannosylated and therefore could contribute to CMD pathology in patients with mutations in the protein O-mannosylation pathway, however few of these proteins have been identified and fully characterized in CMDs. In this study we identify receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase  (RPTP) and its secreted variant, phosphacan, as another potentially important substrate for protein O-mannosylation in the brain. Using a mouse model of muscle-eye-brain disease lacking functional protein O-mannose -1,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (POMGnT1), we show that RPTP/phosphacan is shifted to a lower molecular weight and distinct carbohydrate epitopes normally detected on the protein are either absent or substantially reduced, including Human Natural Killer-1 (HNK-1) reactivity. The spatial and temporal expression patterns of these O-mannosylated forms of RPTP/phosphacan and its hypoglycosylation and loss of HNK-1 glycan epitopes in POMGnT1 knockouts are suggestive of a role in the neural phenotypes observed in patients and animal models of CMDs.
Dementia, especially Alzheimer's disease, is a rapidly increasing medical condition that presents with enormous challenge for treatment. It is characterized by impairment in memory and cognitive function often accompanied by changes in synaptic transmission and plasticity in relevant brain regions such as the hippocampus. We recently synthesized TH-9, a conjugate racetam-methylxanthine compound and tested if it had potential for enhancing synaptic function and possibly, plasticity, by examining its effect on hippocampal fast excitatory synaptic transmission and plasticity. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) were recorded in the CA1 hippocampal area of nave juvenile male Sprague-Dawley rats using conventional electrophysiological recording techniques. TH-9 caused a concentration-dependent, long-lasting enhancement in fEPSPs. This effect was blocked by adenosine A1, acetylcholine (muscarinic and nicotinic) and glutamate (N-methyl-d-aspartate) receptor antagonists but not by a -aminobutyric acid receptor type B (GABA(B)) receptor antagonist. The TH-9 effect was also blocked by enhancing intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate and inhibiting protein kinase A. Pretreatment with TH-9 did not prevent the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) or long-term depression (LTD). Conversely, induction of LTP or LTD completely occluded the ability of TH-9 to enhance fEPSPs. Thus, TH-9 utilizes cholinergic and adenosinergic mechanisms to cause long-lasting enhancement in fEPSPs which were occluded by LTP and LTD. TH-9 may therefore employ similar or convergent mechanisms with frequency-dependent synaptic plasticities to produce the observed long-lasting enhancement in synaptic transmission and may thus, have potential for use in improving memory.
Persistent inflammation is associated with a shift in spinal GABA(A) signaling from inhibition to excitation such that GABA(A)-receptor activation contributes to inflammatory hyperalgesia. We tested the hypothesis that the primary afferent is the site of the persistent inflammation-induced shift in GABA(A) signaling which is due to a Na(+)-K(+)-Cl(-)-co-transporter (NKCC1)-dependent depolarization of the GABA(A) current equilibrium potential (E(GABA)). Acutely dissociated retrogradely labeled cutaneous dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons from nave and inflamed (3 days after a subcutaneous injection of complete Freund's adjuvant) adult male rats were studied with Ca(2+) imaging, western blot and gramicidin-perforated patch recording. GABA evoked a Ca(2+) transient in a subpopulation of small- to medium-diameter capsaicin-sensitive cutaneous neurons. Inflammation was associated with a significant increase in the magnitude of GABA-induced depolarization as well as the percentage of neurons in which GABA evoked a Ca(2+) transient. There was no detectable change in NKCC1 protein or phosphoprotein at the whole ganglia level. Furthermore, the increase in excitatory response was comparable in both HEPES- and HCO(3)(-)-buffered solutions, but was only associated with a depolarization of E(GABA) in HCO(3)(-)-based solution. In contrast, under both recording conditions, the excitatory response was associated with an increase in GABA(A) current density, a decrease in low threshold K(+) current density, and resting membrane potential depolarization. Our results suggest that increasing K(+) conductance in afferents innervating a site of persistent inflammation may have greater efficacy in the inhibition of inflammatory hyperalgesia than attempting to drive a hyperpolarizing shift in E(GABA).
Rotenone is a pesticide that inhibits mitochondrial complex I activity, thus creating an environment of oxidative stress in the cell. Many studies have employed rotenone to generate an experimental animal model of Parkinson's disease (PD) that mimics and elicits PD-like symptoms, such as motor and cognitive decline. Cytoprotective proteins including parkin and heat shock proteins (HSPs) play major roles in slowing PD progression. Moreover, evidence suggests that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress-dependent apoptotic pathways contribute to dopaminergic neuron degeneration in PD. Here, rats were chronically exposed to rotenone to confirm that it causes a debilitating phenotype and various behavioral defects. We also performed histopathological examinations of nigrostriatal, cortical and cerebellar regions of rotenone-treated brain to elucidate a plausible neurodegenerative mechanism. The results of silver, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), parkin, ubiquitin and caspase staining of brain tissue sections further validated our findings. The stress response is known to trigger HSP in response to pharmacological insult. These protective proteins help maintain cellular homeostasis and may be capable of rescuing cells from death. Therefore, we assessed the levels of different HSPs in the rotenone-treated animals. Collectively, our studies indicated the following findings in the striatum and substantia nigra following chronic rotenone exposure in an experimental PD model: (i) behavioral deficit that correlated with histopathological changes and down regulation of TH signaling, (ii) decreased levels of the cytoprotective proteins parkin, DJ1 and Hsp70 and robust expression of mitochondrial chaperone Hsp60 according to Western blot, (iii) increased immunoreactivity for caspase 9, caspase 3 and ubiquitin and decreased parkin immunoreactivity.
Experimental evidence in mice indicates that environmental conditions affect females and males differently. However, in a recent study analyzing the heterozygous mutation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), both sexes presented a similar emotional phenotype, which became obvious only under impoverished, but not in enriched conditions suggesting an &quot;enrichment-induced&quot; rescue. To investigate the basis of this behavioral &quot;rescue&quot; effect, we analyzed neurochemical changes (BDNF expression, serotonergic changes, and corticosterone) in the hippocampus, frontal cortex and hypothalamus of animals housed under respective conditions. In male mice, enrichment induced an increase of BDNF expression in the hippocampus of both BDNF heterozygous (BDNF(+/-)) and wild-types. Notably, in enriched-reared BDNF(+/-) mice BDNF mRNA and protein increased to levels comparable to those of wild-types in impoverished environment. In the frontal cortex of males, only wild-types presented an enrichment-induced increase of BDNF mRNA, while no effect of environment could be detected in BDNF protein levels of the male hypothalamus. A further male-specific effect of &quot;environment&quot; is the significant reduction of hypothalamic 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in enriched-housed wild-types. In female mice, environmental enrichment did not affect BDNF expression in the hippocampus and hypothalamus. However, comparable to males, an enrichment-induced increase of BDNF mRNA was detected in the frontal cortex of wild-types only. In contrast to males, no influence of environment on serotonergic parameters was observed. Male and female corticosterone levels were neither affected by &quot;genotype&quot; nor by &quot;environment&quot;. In conclusion, we propose that the rescue of the emotional phenotype by environmental enrichment in BDNF(+/-) mice is directed by distinct mechanisms in males and females. Only in male BDNF(+/-) mice the rescue is related to an increase in hippocampal BDNF expression suggesting that enrichment triggers different neuronal systems in a gender-specific manner.
Converging evidence from animal and human studies has revealed that increased or decreased use of an extremity can lead to changes in cortical representation of the involved muscles. However, opposite experimental manipulations such as immobilization and motor training have sometimes been associated with similar cortical changes. Therefore, the behavioral relevance of these changes remains unclear. The purpose of this study was to observe the effect of the amount of use on hand muscle motor cortex representation by contrasting the effect of unspecific motor training and immobilization. Nine healthy volunteers were tested prior and after a 4-day exposure to two experimental conditions using a randomized cross-over design: a motor training condition (to play Guitar Hero 2h/day with the tested (nondominant) hand on the fret board) and an immobilization condition (to wear an immobilization splint 24h/day). Before and after each condition, motor cortex representation of the nondominant first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle was mapped using image-guided transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). At the behavioral level, results show that the training condition led to a 20% improvement in the trained task, while the immobilization condition resulted in a 36% decrease in the FDI maximal voluntary contraction. At the neurophysiological level, corticospinal excitability (e.g. Motor-evoked potential amplitude) was found to be decreased in response to immobilization, while no change was observed in response to motor training. No change was found for other TMS variables (motor thresholds or map location/volume/area) in either condition. In conclusion, our results indicate that a 4-day decrease, but not increase, in the amount of use of nondominant hand muscles is sufficient to induce a change in corticospinal excitability. The lack of a training effect might be explained by the use of an unspecific task (that is nevertheless representative of &quot;real-life&quot; training situations) and/or by insufficient duration/intensity to induce long-lasting changes.
Thrombolysis with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is the only FDA-approved therapy for acute ischemic stroke. However, hemorrhagic transformation, neurotoxicity, and a short treatment time window comprise major limitations for thrombolytic therapy. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether fasudil, a Rho kinase (ROCK) inhibitor, would prevent tPA-associated hemorrhagic transformation and extend the reperfusion window in an experimental stroke model in mice. Mice subjected to 6-h middle cerebral artery occlusion were treated with delayed tPA alone, with combined tPA plus fasudil, or with a vehicle. We used histological and neurobehavioral measures to assess the effects of the treatment at 18 h and 7 days after the reperfusion. To investigate the mechanism of fasudil's beneficial effects further, we also performed an in vitro study with tPA and fasudil in human brain microvascular endothelial cells. Combination therapy with tPA plus fasudil prevented the development of hemorrhagic transformation, but did not reduce the infarct volumes. These changes significantly reduced mortality and increased locomotor activity at 7 days after the reperfusion. Furthermore, the administration of both drugs prevented injury to the human brain endothelial cells via the reduction of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) activity. These findings indicate that fasudil prevents the hemorrhagic transformation induced by focal cerebral ischemia in mice treated with tPA, at least in part, by inhibiting the increased activity of MMP-9 in endothelial cells.
Seasonal affective disorder (SAD), a major depressive disorder recurring in the fall and winter, is caused by the reduction of light in the environment, and its depressive symptoms can be alleviated by bright light therapy. Both circadian and monoaminergic systems have been implicated in the etiology of SAD. However, the underlying neural pathways through which light regulates mood are not well understood. The present study utilized a diurnal rodent model, Arvicanthis niloticus, to explore the neural pathways mediating the effects of light on brain regions involved in mood regulation. Animals kept in constant darkness received light exposure in early subjective day, the time when light therapy is usually applied. The time course of neural activity following light exposure was assessed using Fos protein as a marker in the following brain regions/cells: the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), orexin neurons in the perifornical-lateral hypothalamic area (PF-LHA) and the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). A light-induced increase in Fos expression was observed in orexin neurons and the DRN, but not in the SCN. As the DRN is densely innervated by orexinergic inputs, the involvement of orexinergic signaling in mediating the effects of light on the DRN was tested in the second experiment. The animals were injected with the selective orexin receptor type 1 (OXR1) antagonist SB-334867 prior to the light exposure. The treatment of SB-334867 significantly inhibited the Fos induction in the DRN. The results collectively point to the role of orexin neurons in mediating the effects of light on the mood-regulating monoaminergic areas, suggesting an orexinergic pathway that underlies light-dependent mood fluctuation and the beneficial effects of light therapy.
Degradation of the extracellular matrix by elevated matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity following ischemia/reperfusion is implicated in blood-brain barrier disruption and neuronal death. In contrast to their characterized extracellular roles, we previously reported that elevated intranuclear MMP-2 and -9 (gelatinase) activity degrades nuclear DNA repair proteins and promotes accumulation of oxidative DNA damage in neurons in rat brain at 3-h reperfusion after ischemic stroke. Here, we report that treatment with a broad-spectrum MMP inhibitor significantly reduced neuronal apoptosis in rat ischemic hemispheres at 48-h reperfusion after a 90-min middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Since extracellular gelatinases in brain tissue are known to be neurotoxic during acute stroke, the contribution of intranuclear MMP-2 and -9 activities in neurons to neuronal apoptosis has been unclear. To confirm and extend our in vivo observations, oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), an in vitro model of ischemia/reperfusion, was employed. Primary cortical neurons were subjected to 2-h OGD with reoxygenation. Increased intranuclear gelatinase activity was detected immediately after reoxygenation onset and was maximal at 24h, while extracellular gelatinase levels remained unchanged. We detected elevated levels of both MMP-2 and -9 in neuronal nuclear extracts and gelatinase activity in neurons co-localized primarily with MMP-2. We found a marked decrease in PARP1, XRCC1, and OGG1, and decreased PARP1 activity. Pretreatment of neurons with selective MMP-2/9 inhibitor II significantly decreased gelatinase activity and downregulation of DNA repair enzymes, decreased accumulation of oxidative DNA damage, and promoted neuronal survival after OGD. Our results confirm the nuclear localization of gelatinases and their nuclear substrates observed in an animal stroke model, further supporting a novel role for intranuclear gelatinase activity in an intrinsic apoptotic pathway in neurons during acute stroke injury.
The perifornical-lateral hypothalamic area (PF-LHA) is a major wake-promoting structure. It predominantly contains neurons that are active during behavioral and cortical activation. Nitric oxide (NO) is a gaseous neurotransmitter that has been implicated in the regulation of sleep. Recently we found that NO levels in the PF-LHA are higher during sustained waking and that NO exerts predominantly inhibitory effects, especially on PF-LHA neurons excited by tactile stimulation. The mechanisms underlying this NO-evoked inhibitory action on the PF-LHA neurons were assessed in the present study. We investigated the contributions of adenosinergic, GABAergic, and sGC-cGMP signaling mechanisms in mediating nitrergic influences on the PF-LHA neurons. The extracellular discharge activity of PF-LHA neurons was recorded in combination with microdialytic delivery of pharmacological agents adjacent to the recorded neurons in urethane-anesthetized rats. First, we quantified changes in the discharge activity of the PF-LHA neurons during the blockade of the adenosine A(1) receptor, GABA(A) receptor, and sGC-cGMP pathway. Then, we determined the efficacy of blocking adenosine A(1) receptor, GABA(A) receptor, and sGC signaling mechanisms in attenuating the inhibitory influences of 3,3-bis(aminoethyl)-1-hydroxy-1-oxo-1-triazene (a NO donor) (NOC-18), a NO donor, on the discharge activity of the PF-LHA neurons. We found that NOC-18-induced suppression in the discharge activity of PF-LHA neurons was significantly attenuated during the blockade of adenosine A(1) receptor-, GABA(A) receptor-, and sGC-cGMP-mediated signaling. These findings suggest that NO-evoked inhibition of PF-LHA neurons involves a complex mechanism including, but may not be limited to, adenosinergic, GABAergic and sGC-cGMP signaling pathways. The findings are consistent with a generalized sleep-promoting role of NO within the PF-LHA and, given the sleep-promoting roles of adenosinergic and GABAergic systems in this area, further suggest that this effect may be mediated through nitrergic interactions with other neurotransmitters and neuromodulators.

Acute treatment of stroke with histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors has been shown to reduce ischemic cell damage; however, it is unclear whether delayed treatment with HDAC inhibitors will contribute to the brain repair and plasticity. In the present study, we investigated the effects of delayed treatment of stroke with a pan HDAC inhibitor, valproic acid (VPA), on white matter injury and neurogenesis during stroke recovery. Administration of VPA at a dose of 100mg/kg for 7 days starting 24h after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) in rats significantly improved neurological outcome measured 7-28 days post-MCAo. In addition, the VPA treatment significantly increased oligodendrocyte survival and newly generated oligodendrocytes, which was associated with elevation of myelinated axonal density in the ischemic boundary 28 days after MCAo. VPA treatment also increased the expression of glutamate transporter 1 (GLT1) in the ischemic boundary after stroke, and increased acetylated histone H4 expression in neuroblasts and the number of new neurons in striatal ischemic boundary region. This study provides new evidence that the delayed VPA treatment enhances white matter repair and neurogenesis in ischemic brain, which may contribute to improved functional outcome.
Antagonism of the kappa opioid receptor (KOR) has been reported to have anti-depressant-like properties. The dynorphin/KOR system is a crucial neurochemical substrate underlying the pathologies of addictive diseases, affective disorders and other disease states. However, the molecular underpinnings and neuroanatomical localization of the dysregulation of this system have not yet been fully elucidated. Utilizing the Porsolt Forced Swim Test (FST), an acute stressor commonly used as in rodent models measuring antidepressant efficacy, male Sprague-Dawley rats were subject to forced swimming for 15 min, treated 1h with vehicle or norbinaltorphimine (nor-BNI) (5 or 10mg/kg), and then 1 day later subject to FST for 5 min. In accordance with previous findings, nor-BNI dose dependently increased climbing time and reduced immobility. In comparison to control animals not exposed to FST, we observed a significant elevation in prodynorphin (pDyn) mRNA levels following FST using real-time optical polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in the caudate putamen but not in the nucleus accumbens, hypothalamus, amygdala, frontal cortex, or hippocampus. nor-BNI treatment did not affect pDyn mRNA levels in comparison to animals that received vehicle. The corresponding brain regions from the opposite hemisphere were analyzed for underlying chromatin modifications of the prodynorphin gene promoter region using chromatin immunoprecipitation with antibodies against specifically methylated histones H3K27Me2, H3K27Me3, H3K4Me2, and H3K4Me3, as well as CREB-1 and MeCP2. Significant alterations in proteins bound to DNA in the Cre-3, Cre-4, and Sp1 regions of the prodynorphin promoter were found in the caudate putamen of the FST saline-treated animals compared to control animals, with no changes observed in the hippocampus. Epigenetic changes resulting in elevated dynorphin levels specifically in the caudate putamen may in part underlie the enduring effects of stress.
Purinergic signaling through activation of P2X and P2Y receptors is critically important in the chemical senses. In the mouse main olfactory epithelium (MOE), adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) elicits an increase in intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](I)) and reduces the responsiveness of olfactory sensory neurons to odorants through activation of P2X and P2Y receptors. We investigated the role of purinergic signaling in vomeronasal sensory neuron (VSN)s from the mouse vomeronasal organ (VNO), an olfactory organ distinct from the MOE that responds to many conspecific chemical cues. Using a combination of calcium imaging and patch-clamp electrophysiology with isolated VSNs, we demonstrated that ATP elicits an increase in [Ca(2+)](I) and an inward current with similar EC(50)s. Neither adenosine nor the P2Y receptor ligands adenosine 5'-diphosphate, uridine 5'-triphosphate, and uridine-5'-disphosphate could mimic either effect of ATP. Moreover, the increase in [Ca(2+)](I) required the presence of extracellular calcium and the inward current elicited by ATP was partially blocked by the P2X receptor antagonists pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonate and 2',3'-O-(2,4,6-trinitrophenyl) adenosine 5'-triphosphate. Consistent with the activation of P2X receptors, we detected gene expression of the P2X1 and 3 receptors in the VNO by Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). When co-delivered with dilute urine, a natural stimulus, ATP significantly increased the inward current above that elicited by dilute urine or ATP alone. Mechanical stimulation of the VNO induced the release of ATP, detected by luciferin-luciferase luminometry, and this release of ATP was completely abolished in the presence of the connexin/pannexin hemichannel blocker, carbenoxolone. We conclude that the release of ATP could occur during the activity of the vasomotor pump that facilitates the movement of chemicals into the VNO for detection by VSNs. This mechanism could lead to a global increase in excitability and the chemosensory response in VSNs through activation of P2X receptors.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is the most common form of focal epilepsy. Previous research has demonstrated several trends in human tissue that, undoubtedly, contribute to the development and progression of TLE. In this study we examined resected human hippocampus tissue for a variety of changes including gliosis that might contribute to the development and presentation of TLE. The study subjects consisted of six TLE patients and three sudden-death controls. Clinicopathological characteristics were evaluated by H&amp;E staining. Immunohistological staining and Western blotting methods were used to analyze the samples. Neuronal hypertrophy was observed in resected epileptic tissue. Immunohistological staining demonstrated that activation of astrocytes was significantly increased in epileptic tissue as compared to corresponding regions of the control group. The Western blot data also showed increased CX43 and AQP4 in the hippocampus and downregulation of Kir4.1, -syntrophin, and dystrophin, the key constituents of AQP4 multi-molecular complex. These tissues also demonstrated changes in inflammatory factors (COX-2, TGF-, NF-B) suggesting that these molecules may play an important role in TLE pathogenesis. In addition we detected increases in metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) 2/3, mGluR5 and kainic acid receptor subunits KA1 (Grik4) and KA2 (Grik5) in patients' hippocampi. We noted increased expression of the 1c subunit comprising class C L-type Ca(2+) channels and calpain expression in these tissues, suggesting that these subunits might have an integral role in TLE pathogenesis. These changes found in the resected tissue suggest that they may contribute to TLE and that the kainic acid receptor (KAR) and deregulation of GluR2 receptor may play an important role in TLE development and disease course. This study identifies alterations in number of commonly studied molecular targets associated with astrogliosis, cellular hypertrophy, water homeostasis, inflammation, and modulation of excitatory neurotransmission in hippocampal tissues from TLE patients.
The amygdala and serotonergic innervations thereunto are considered to cooperatively modulate affective behaviors. By whole-cell recording, the present study examined effects of serotonin (5-HT) on synaptic transmission in the rat basolateral amygdala (BLA) complex, which is the amygdalar entrance for sensory information. Application of 5-HT-attenuated excitatory postsynaptic currents at synapses from the lateral amygdala (LA) to the BLA proper, and also at synapses from putative thalamic afferents to LA principal neurons, both depending on 5-HT(2) receptors. This reduction of synaptic responses was confirmed in the BLA under current clamp. In the LA, by contrast, synaptic potentials were not reduced, but enhanced by 5-HT. With 5-HT bath-applied, a prolonged depolarization was induced in LA neurons by strong synaptic stimulation, which appears similar to a slow after-depolarization (sADP) induced by injecting depolarizing currents. Occurrence of such current-induced sADP was confirmed in LA neurons. Both the synaptically-activated prolonged depolarization and the current-induced sADPs depended on 5-HT(2) receptor activation and postsynaptic calcium increase, suggesting that the same postsynaptic intrinsic mechanisms are involved. Reduction of potassium currents was identified as a major ionic mechanism for this sADPs. We thus revealed that 5-HT usually reduces overall synaptic transmission in the whole BLA complex, but enables sADPs to occur, thereby increasing synaptic responsiveness of LA neurons in a positive feedback manner. With this duality of 5-HT actions in operation, a weak input to the BLA complex would be usually eliminated, but could be selected were it associated with sufficiently large depolarization.
Signal detection theory (SDT) provides a framework for interpreting psychophysical experiments, separating the putative internal sensory representation and the decision process. SDT was used to analyse ferret behavioural responses in a (yes-no) tone-in-noise detection task. Instead of measuring the receiver-operating characteristic (ROC), we tested SDT by comparing responses collected using two common psychophysical data collection methods. These (Constant Stimuli, Limits) differ in the set of signal levels presented within and across behavioural sessions. The results support the use of SDT as a method of analysis: SDT sensory component was unchanged between the two methods, even though decisions depended on the stimuli presented within a behavioural session. Decision criterion varied trial-by-trial: a 'yes' response was more likely after a correct rejection trial than a hit trial. Simulation using an SDT model with several decision components reproduced the experimental observations accurately, leaving only 10% of the variance unaccounted for. The model also showed that trial-by-trial dependencies were unlikely to influence measured psychometric functions or thresholds. An additional model component suggested that inattention did not contribute substantially. Further analysis showed that ferrets were changing their decision criteria, almost optimally, to maximise the reward obtained in a session. The data suggest trial-by-trial reward-driven optimization of the decision process. Understanding the factors determining behavioural responses is important for correlating neural activity and behaviour. SDT provides a good account of animal psychoacoustics, and can be validated using standard psychophysical methods and computer simulations, without recourse to ROC measurements.
Recent study from our laboratory has indicated that microinjection of glutamate into the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) facilitates the cardiac-somatic reflex induced by pericardial capsaicin. Further, N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) mediate this function. However, the roles of the individual receptor subtypes or subunits in modulating cardiac nociception are unknown. Among the three groups of mGluRs, group III mGluRs are the primary mGluR subtype expressed in visceral afferent neurons in the NTS. The present study examined the roles of group III mGluRs and their subtype 7 and 8 receptors (mGluR7 and mGluR8) in modulating the cardiac-somatic reflex induced by pericardial capsaicin, which was monitored by recording electromyogram (EMG) activity from the spinotrapezius muscle in anesthetized rats. Intra-NTS microinjection of a group III mGluR agonist, l-(+)-2-Amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (l-AP4, at 1, 10, and 20 nmol) or a selective mGluR7 agonist, N,N'-diphenylmethyl-1,2-ethanediamine dihydrochloride (AMN082, at 1, 2, and 4 nmol) both decreased the EMG response in a dose-dependent manner. This decrease was inhibited by the group III mGluR antagonist (RS)--Methylserine-O-phosphate (MSOP, at 20 nmol). In contrast, intra-NTS microinjection of a selective mGluR8 agonist, (S)-3, 4-dicarboxyphenylglycine (DCPG, at 6 and 8 nmol), significantly increased the EMG response above control levels. This effect was eliminated by intra-NTS MSOP and by vagal deafferentation. These data suggest that group III mGluRs and mGluR7 in the NTS display an inhibitory effect, while mGluR8 displays a facilitatory effect in modulating cardiac nociception, and this facilitatory effect is dependent on vagal afferents.
Severe muscle wasting and loss of muscle function in critically ill mechanically ventilated intensive care unit (ICU) patients have significant negative consequences on their recovery and rehabilitation that persist long after their hospital discharge; moreover, the underlying mechanisms are unclear. Mechanical ventilation (MV) and immobilization-induced modifications play an important role in these consequences, including endotoxin-induced sepsis. The present study aims to investigate how sepsis aggravates ventilator and immobilization-related limb muscle dysfunction. Hence, biceps femoris muscle gene expression was investigated in pigs exposed to ICU intervention, i.e., immobilization, sedation, and MV, alone or in combination with sepsis, for 5 days. In previous studies, we have shown that ICU intervention alone or in combination with sepsis did not affect muscle fiber size on day 5, but a significant decrease was observed in single fiber maximal force normalized to cross-sectional area (specific force) when sepsis was added to the ICU intervention. According to microarray data, the addition of sepsis to the ICU intervention induced a deregulation of &gt; 500 genes, such as an increased expression of genes involved in chemokine activity, kinase activity, and transcriptional regulation. Genes involved in the regulation of the oxidative stress response and cytoskeletal/sarcomeric and heat shock proteins were on the other hand downregulated when sepsis was added to the ICU intervention. Thus, sepsis has a significant negative effect on muscle function in critically ill ICU patients, and chemokine activity and heat shock protein genes are forwarded to play an instrumental role in this specific muscle wasting condition.
Aberrant mitochondrial function, morphology, and transport are main features of neurodegenerative diseases. To date, mitochondrial transport within neurons is thought to rely mainly on microtubules, whereas actin might mediate short-range movements and mitochondrial anchoring. Here, we analyzed the impact of actin on neuronal mitochondrial size and localization. F-actin enhanced mitochondrial size and mitochondrial number in neurites and growth cones. In contrast, raising G-actin resulted in mitochondrial fragmentation and decreased mitochondrial abundance. Cellular F-actin/G-actin levels also regulate serum response factor (SRF)-mediated gene regulation, suggesting a possible link between SRF and mitochondrial dynamics. Indeed, SRF-deficient neurons display neurodegenerative hallmarks of mitochondria, including disrupted morphology, fragmentation, and impaired mitochondrial motility, as well as ATP energy metabolism. Conversely, constitutively active SRF-VP16 induced formation of mitochondrial networks and rescued huntingtin (HTT)-impaired mitochondrial dynamics. Finally, SRF and actin dynamics are connected via the actin severing protein cofilin and its slingshot phosphatase to modulate neuronal mitochondrial dynamics. In summary, our data suggest that the SRF-cofilin-actin signaling axis modulates neuronal mitochondrial function.
Reversal learning has been widely used to probe the implementation of cognitive flexibility in the brain. Previous studies in monkeys identified an essential role of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in reversal learning. However, the underlying circuits and molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we use the T-maze to investigate the neural mechanism of olfactory reversal learning in Drosophila. By adding a reversal training cycle to the classical learning protocol, we show that wild-type flies are able to reverse their choice according to the alteration of conditioned stimulus (CS)-unconditioned stimulus (US) contingency. The reversal protocol induced a specific suppression of the initial memory, an effect distinct from memory decay or extinction. GABA down-regulation in the anterior paired lateral (APL) neurons, which innervate the mushroom bodies (MBs), eliminates this suppression effect and impairs normal reversal. These findings reveal that inhibitory regulation from the GABAergic APL neurons facilitates olfactory reversal learning by suppressing initial memory in Drosophila.

The contribution of orosensory signals, especially taste, on body mass, and feeding and drinking patterns in the rat was examined. Gustatory deafferentation was produced by bilateral transection of the chorda tympani, glossopharyngeal, and greater superficial petrosal nerves. Total calories consumed from sweetened-milk diet and oil-chow mash by the nerve-transected rats significantly decreased relative to sham-operated controls, mostly attributable to decreases in bout number, but not size. Nevertheless, caloric intake steadily increased over the postsurgical observation period, but body mass remained below both presurgical baseline and control levels and did not significantly increase over this time. After the sweetened-milk diet/oil-chow mash phase, rats received a series of sucrose preference tests. Interestingly, the nerve-transected rats preferred sucrose, and intake did not differ from controls, likely due to the stimulus sharing some nontaste chemosensory properties with the sweetened-milk diet. The neurotomized rats initiated a greater number of sucrose-licking bouts that were smaller in size and slower in licking rate, compared with control rats, and, unlike in control rats, the latter two bout parameters did not vary across concentration. Thus, in the absence of gustatory neural input, body mass is more stable compared with the progressive trajectory of weight gain seen in intact rats, and caloric intake initially decreases but recovers. The consequences of gustatory neurotomy on processes that determine meal initiation (bout number) and meal termination (bout size) are not fixed and appear to be influenced by presurgical experience with food stimuli coupled with its nongustatory chemosensory properties.
While mammals have a limited capacity to repair bone fractures, zebrafish can completely regenerate amputated bony fin rays. Fin regeneration in teleosts has been studied after partial amputation of the caudal fin, which is not ideal to model human bone fractures because it involves substantial tissue removal, rather than local tissue injury. In this work, we have established a bone crush injury model in zebrafish adult caudal fin, which consists of the precise crush of bony rays with no tissue amputation. Comparing these two injury models, we show that the initial stages of injury response are the same regarding the activation of wound healing molecular markers. However, in the crush assay the expression of the blastema marker msxb appears later than during regeneration after amputation. Following the same trend, bone cells deposition and expression of genes involved in skeletogenesis are also delayed. We further show that bone and blood vessel patterning is also affected. Moreover, analysis of osteopontin and Tenascin-C reveals that they are expressed at later stages in crushed tissue, suggesting that in this case bone repair is prolonged for longer than in the case of regeneration after amputation. Due to the nature of the trauma inflicted, the crush injury model seems more similar to fracture bone repair in mammals than bony ray amputation. Therefore, the new model that we present here may help to identify the key processes that regulate bone fracture and contribute to improve bone repair in humans.


The identification of highly potent and orally active triazines for the inhibition of PDE10A is reported. The new analogs exhibit low-nanomolar potency for PDE10A, demonstrate high selectivity against all other members of the PDE family, and show desired drug-like properties. Employing structure-based drug design approaches, we investigated the selectivity of PDE10A inhibitors against other known PDE isoforms, by methodically exploring the various sub-regions of the PDE10A ligand binding pocket. A systematic assessment of the ADME and pharmacokinetic properties of the newly synthesized compounds has led to the design of drug-like candidates with good brain permeability and desirable drug kinetics (t(1/2), bioavailability, clearance). Compound 66 was highly potent for PDE10A (IC(50)=1.4 nM), demonstrated high selectivity (&gt;200) for the other PDEs, and was efficacious in animal models of psychoses; reversal of MK-801 induced hyperactivity (MED=0.1mg/kg) and conditioned avoidance responding (CAR; ID(50)=0.2 mg/kg).

The MAPT (microtubule-associated protein tau) locus is one of the most remarkable in neurogenetics due not only to its involvement in multiple neurodegenerative disorders, including progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, Parksinson's disease and possibly Alzheimer's disease, but also due its genetic evolution and complex alternative splicing features which are, to some extent, linked and so all the more intriguing. Therefore, obtaining robust information regarding the expression, splicing and genetic regulation of this gene within the human brain is of immense importance. In this study, we used 2011 brain samples originating from 439 individuals to provide the most reliable and coherent information on the regional expression, splicing and regulation of MAPT available to date. We found significant regional variation in mRNA expression and splicing of MAPT within the human brain. Furthermore, at the gene level, the regional distribution of mRNA expression and total tau protein expression levels were largely in agreement, appearing to be highly correlated. Finally and most importantly, we show that while the reported H1/H2 association with gene level expression is likely to be due to a technical artefact, this polymorphism is associated with the expression of exon 3-containing isoforms in human brain. These findings would suggest that contrary to the prevailing view, genetic risk factors for neurodegenerative diseases at the MAPT locus are likely to operate by changing mRNA splicing in different brain regions, as opposed to the overall expression of the MAPT gene.
Pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN) is a neurodegenerative disease belonging to the group of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation disorders. It is characterized by progressive impairments in movement, speech and cognition. The disease is inherited in a recessive manner due to mutations in the Pantothenate Kinase-2 (PANK2) gene that encodes a mitochondrial protein involved in Coenzyme A synthesis. To investigate the link between a PANK2 gene defect and iron accumulation, we analyzed primary skin fibroblasts from three PKAN patients and three unaffected subjects. The oxidative status of the cells and their ability to respond to iron were analyzed in both basal and iron supplementation conditions. In basal conditions, PKAN fibroblasts show an increase in carbonylated proteins and altered expression of antioxidant enzymes with respect to the controls. After iron supplementation, the PKAN fibroblasts had a defective response to the additional iron. Under these conditions, ferritins were up-regulated and Transferrin Receptor 1 (TfR1) was down-regulated to a minor extent in patients compared with the controls. Analysis of iron regulatory proteins (IRPs) reveals that, with respect to the controls, PKAN fibroblasts have a reduced amount of membrane-associated mRNA-bound IRP1, which responds imperfectly to iron. This accounts for the defective expression of ferritin and TfR1 in patients' cells. The inaccurate quantity of these proteins produced a higher bioactive labile iron pool and consequently increased iron-dependent reactive oxygen species formation. Our results suggest that Pank2 deficiency promotes an increased oxidative status that is further enhanced by the addition of iron, potentially causing damage in cells.
The present work aimed at designing a lipid-based nanocarrier for siRNA delivery toward two cell sub-populations within breast tumors, the cancer and the endothelial cells from angiogenic tumor blood vessels. To achieve such goal, the F3 peptide, which is specifically internalized by nucleolin overexpressed on both those sub-populations, was used as a targeting moiety. The developed F3-targeted stable nucleic acid lipid particles presented adequate features for systemic administration. In addition, the attachment of the F3 peptide onto the liposomal surface enabled an internalization by both cancer and endothelial cells from angiogenic blood vessels that was significantly higher than the one observed with non-cancer cells. Sequence-specific downregulation of enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) in eGFP-overexpressing human cancer cell lines, both at the protein and mRNA levels, was further observed upon delivery of anti-eGFP siRNA by F3-targeted liposomes, in contrast with the non-targeted counterpart. This effect was highly dependent on the content of poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG), as evidenced by the co-localization studies between the siRNA and the lysosomes. Overall, the present work represents an important contribution toward a nanoparticle with multi-targeting capabilities in breast cancer, both at the cellular and molecular level.
Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling is essential to the patterning of the embryonic neural tube, but its presence and function in the postmitotic differentiated neurons in the brain remain largely uncharacterized. We recently showed that Shh and its signaling components, Patched and Smoothened, are expressed in postnatal and adult hippocampal neurons. We have now examined whether Shh signaling has a function in these neurons. Using cultured hippocampal neurons as a model system, we found that presynaptic terminals become significantly larger in response to the application of Shh. Ultrastructural examination confirmed the enlarged presynaptic profiles and also revealed variable increases in the size of synaptic vesicles, with a resulting loss of uniformity. Furthermore, electrophysiological analyses showed significant increases in the frequency, but not the amplitude, of spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) in response to Shh, providing functional evidence of the selective role of Shh in presynaptic terminals. Thus, we conclude that Shh signaling regulates the structure and functional properties of presynaptic terminals of hippocampal neurons.
This article reports a biophysical and behavioral assessment of the active electrolocation range of Gymnotus omarorum. Physical measurements show that the stimulus field of a point on the sensory mosaic (i.e. the potential positions in which an object may cause a significant departure of the transcutaneous field from basal in the absence of an object) consists of relatively extended volumes surrounding this point. The shape of this stimulus field is dependent on the position of the point on the receptive mosaic and the size of the object. Although the limit of stimulus fields is difficult to assess (it depends on receptor threshold), departure from the basal field decays rapidly, vanishing at about 1.5 diameters for conductive spheres. This short range was predictable from earlier theoretical constructs and experimental data. Here, we addressed the contribution of three different but synergetic mechanisms by which electrosensory signals attenuate with object distance. Using novelty responses as an indicator of object detection we confirmed that the active electrosensory detection range is very short. Behavioral data also indicate that the ability to precisely locate a small object of edible size decays even more rapidly than the ability to detect it. The role of active electroreception is discussed in the context of the fish's habitat.
Dexamethasone, the standard treatment for peritumoral brain oedema, inhibits classical inflammation. Neurogenic inflammation, which acts via substance P (SP), has been implicated in vasogenic oedema in animal models of CNS injury. SP is elevated within and outside CNS tumours. This study investigated the efficacy of NK1 receptor antagonists, which block SP, compared with dexamethasone treatment, in a rat model of tumorigenesis. Dexamethasone reverted normal brain water content and reduced Evans blue and albumin extravasation, while NK1 antagonists did not ameliorate oedema formation. We conclude that classical inflammation rather than neurogenic inflammation drives peritumoral oedema in this brain tumour model.
Although there is increasing evidence for microglial activation after an ischaemic stroke in the infarct core and the peri-infarct region, the &quot;evolution&quot; of the process in stroke patients is poorly known. Using PET and [((11))C]vinpocetine, we measured the regional changes of TSPO in the brain of nine ischaemic stroke patients up to 14weeks after the insult. Already a week after stroke there was an increased radioligand uptake, indicating the up-regulation of TSPO and the presence of activated microglia, in both the ischaemic core and the peri-infarct zone. This increased activation showed a steady decrease with post stroke time. The proportion between %SUV values in the peri-infarct zone and the ischaemic core increased with time. There were no time-dependent TSPO activity changes in other regions, not affected directly by the stroke. The present observations demonstrate that increased regional microglia activation, as a consequence of stroke, can be visualised with PET, using the TSPO molecular imaging biomarker [((11))C]vinpocetine. The evolution of this microglial activation shows a time dependent decrease the gradient of which is different between the peri-infarct zone and the ischaemic core. The findings indicate an increased microglial activation in the peri-stroke region for several weeks after the insult.
In multiple sclerosis (MS), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) provides neuroprotection, but can also promote disease through the maintenance of autoreactive T cells. One aspect that has not been explored yet in MS is related to the opposite functions of BDNF protein isoforms consisting of the pro-BDNF precursor, which has pro-apoptotic effects, and two proteolytic isoforms, the mature BDNF with pro-survival effects and truncated BDNF, with unknown functions. Using ELISA and semi-quantitative Western-blot we determined the relative serum levels of BDNF isoforms in 20 relapsing-remitting MS patients without any disease modifying therapy and 20 age and gender-matched healthy controls and searched for clinical correlates. Total serum BDNF was lower in MS than in HC. We demonstrate that the capture and detection antibodies of the ELISA kit from Promega are able to recognize all three isoforms but with different efficiency. Using Western-blot analysis, we show that the percentage of serum mature BDNF and pro-BDNF with respect to total serum BDNF was significantly decreased, while truncated BDNF was increased. No correlation between BDNF isoform percentage and clinical or demographic features was found. Serum Fas (sFas) was increased. These results support and expand the current hypothesis on the role of BDNF in multiple sclerosis, in that low pro-BDNF and high sFas might result in a failure to limit autoreactive T cells by apoptotic deletion and decreased mature BDNF may not provide enough neuroprotection, while truncated BDNF percent increase could be a compensatory mechanism. Hence, future studies on MS should take into account BDNF proteolytic processing.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) makes a strong psychological impact, and the study of efforts by patients to cope with the course of the disease could be an important first step in the optimisation of care treatment. With this aim, in our study we assessed the coping strategies by a population of ALS patients, according to some clinical parameters and the worsening of the disease. We have administered the MND coping scale to 62 patients, firstly at the admission to our neurorehabilitation unit and secondly after 1year. Each factor score has been related to age and progression of the disease, and comparisons between males and females have also been made. The increasing relevance of seeking support from families and technological devices is probably the most interesting finding: such a result stimulates remarkable considerations about the proper balance between such support and patients' autonomy. As a whole, data confirm the importance of a proper and well-timed psychological intervention for patients and their families. In detail, improving adaptive coping strategies, together with sustaining those which tend to weaken along the progression of the disease, could be an important goal in psychological counselling for both patients and family members.

Variations of excitatory and inhibitory conductances determine the membrane potential (V(m)) activity of neurons, as well as their spike responses, and are thus of primary importance. Methods to estimate these conductances require clamping the cell at several different levels of V(m), thus making it impossible to estimate conductances from &quot;single trial&quot; V(m) recordings. We present here a new method that allows extracting estimates of the full time course of excitatory and inhibitory conductances from single-trial V(m) recordings. This method is based on oversampling of the V(m). We test the method numerically using models of increasing complexity. Finally, the method is evaluated using controlled conductance injection in cortical neurons in vitro using the dynamic-clamp technique. This conductance extraction method should be very useful for future in vivo applications.


Although the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) is considered multifactorial, evidence from genetics and cell biology has implicated specific molecular pathways. This article summarizes evidence that suggests that the level of intracellular alpha-synuclein is critical for the onset of neurodegeneration with Lewy bodies and dependent, to a large extent, on lysosomal degradation. The function of other key proteins that emerged from genetics is discussed: Pink1 and Parkin regulate the degradation of damaged mitochondria by the lysosome (mitophagy). Glucocerebrosidase and ATP13A2 are important components of this degradative organelle. VPS35 and LRRK2 may regulate trafficking within lysosome-dependent pathways, such as autophagy and endosomal vesicle recycling. Clinically, diffuse alpha-synucleinopathy or dementia seems to correlate with mutations which interfere with the broader function of lysosomal pathways, whereas a predominantly motor syndrome and nigrostriatal degeneration is associated with specific defects in mitophagy. Based on these studies, it is proposed that a protein network involved in trafficking to, or degradation by, lysosomes could be sufficient to explain the phenotypic spectrum within PD in a unifying biochemical pathway.

Writer's cramp is a task-specific form of dystonia with symptoms characterized by abnormal movements and postures of the hand and arm evident only during writing. Its pathophysiology has been related to faulty sensorimotor integration, abnormal sensory processing, and impaired motor planning. Its symptoms might appear when the computational load of writing pushes a tonically altered circuit outside its operational range. Using resting-state fMRI, we tested whether writer's cramp patients have altered intrinsic functional connectivity in the premotor-parietal circuit. Sixteen patients with right-sided writer's cramp and 19 control subjects were studied. We show that writer's cramp patients have reduced connectivity between the superior parietal lobule and a dorsal precentral region that controls writing movements. This difference between patients and controls occurred in the absence of writing and only in the hemisphere contralateral to the affected hand. This finding adds a novel element to the pathophysiological substrate for writer's cramp, namely, task-independent alterations within a writing-related circuit.
The majority of patients with anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor encephalitis (NMDAE) present a characteristic movement disorder, which consists of complex bilateral stereotyped movements of the arms, with perioral and eye movements, and less frequently involvement of the legs. We have observed striking similarities in the characteristics of the abnormal movements observed in NMDAE and those described in Status Dissociatus, which is characterized by a complete breakdown of state-determining boundaries (wakefulness, REM and NREM sleep) and can result from pathophysiologically diverse disorders (e.g. fatal familial insomnia, delirium tremens, Morvan's syndrome). Here, we suggest that the state of paradoxical responsiveness in which NMDAE patients present these stereotyped movements may be that of Status Dissociatus and discuss the clinical similarities and pathophysiological explanations that support such a suggestion. This hypothesis explains why patients that seem to be unconscious have a movement disorder that is not epileptic and may have management implications, since many patients with NMDAE-related movement disorder are treated with anticonvulsants that may not be indicated.
This review will focus on a description of the three-dimensional structures of two -neurotoxins, the monomeric PLA(2) ammodytoxin from Vipera ammodytes ammodytes, and heterodimeric crotoxin from Crotalus durissus terrificus, and a detailed structural analysis of their multiple functional sites. We have recently determined at high resolution the crystal structures of two natural isoforms of ammodytoxin (AtxA and AtxC) (Saul etal., 2010) which exhibit different toxicity profiles and different anticoagulant properties. Comparative structural analysis of these two PLA(2) isoforms, which differ only by two amino acid residues, allowed us to detect local conformational changes and delineate the role of critical residues in the anticoagulant and neurotoxic functions of these PLA(2) (Saul etal., 2010). We have also determined, at 1.35 resolution, the crystal structure of heterodimeric crotoxin (Faure etal., 2011). The three-dimensional structure of crotoxin revealed details of the binding interface between its acidic (CA) and basic (CB) subunits and allowed us to identify key residues involved in the stability and toxicity of this potent heterodimeric -neurotoxin (Faure etal., 2011). The precise spatial orientation of the three covalently linked polypeptide chains in the mature CA subunit complexed with CB helps us to understand the role played by critical residues of the CA subunit in the increased toxicity of the crotoxin complex. Since the CA subunit is a natural inhibitor of the catalytic and anticoagulant activities of CB, identification of the CA-CB binding interface describes residues involved in this inhibition. We propose future research directions based on knowledge of the recently reported 3D structures of crotoxin and ammodytoxin.
Simultaneous contrast refers to the respective whitening or blackening of physically identical image regions surrounded by regions of low or high luminance, respectively. A common method of measuring the strength of this effect is achromatic color matching, in which subjects adjust the luminance of a target region to achieve an achromatic color match with another region. Here I present psychophysical data questioning the assumption--built into many models of achromatic color perception--that achromatic colors are represented as points in a one-dimensional (1D) perceptual space, or an absolute achromatic color gamut. I present an alternative model in which the achromatic color gamut corresponding to a target region is defined relatively, with respect to surround luminance. Different achromatic color gamuts in this model correspond to different 1D lines through a 2D perceptual space composed of blackness and whiteness dimensions. Each such line represents a unique gamut of achromatic colors ranging from black to white. I term this concept gamut relativity. Achromatic color matches made between targets surrounded by regions of different luminance are shown to reflect the relative perceptual distances between points lying on different gamut lines. The model suggests a novel geometrical approach to simultaneous contrast and achromatic color matching in terms of the vector summation of local luminance and contrast components, and sets the stage for a unified computational theory of achromatic color perception.
The ability of adult injured postganglionic axons to reinnervate cerebrovascular targets is unknown, yet these axons can influence cerebral blood flow, particularly during REM sleep. The objective of the present study was to assess quantitatively the sympathetic reinnervation of vascular as well as non-vascular targets following bilateral axotomy of the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) at short term (1 day, 7 day) and long term (8 weeks, 12 weeks) survival time points. The sympathetic innervation of representative extracerebral blood vessels [internal carotid artery (ICA), basilar artery (BA), middle cerebral artery (MCA)], the submandibular gland (SMG), and pineal gland was quantified following injury using an antibody to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Changes in TH innervation were related to TH protein content in the SCG. At 7 day following bilateral SCG axotomy, all targets were significantly depleted of TH innervation, and the exact site on the BA where SCG input was lost could be discerned. Complete sympathetic reinnervation of the ICA was observed at long term survival times, yet TH innervation of other vascular targets showed significant decreases even at 12 weeks following axotomy. The SMG was fully reinnervated by 12 weeks, yet TH innervation of the pineal gland remained significantly decreased. TH protein in the SCG was significantly decreased at both short term and long term time points and showed little evidence of recovery. Our data demonstrate a slow reinnervation of most vascular targets following axotomy of the SCG with only minimal recovery of TH protein in the SCG at 12 weeks following injury.
The aim of the present study was to measure the effects of NMDA receptor antagonists on rat astroglial-enriched primary cultures after incubation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), with a view to explaining the role of NMDA receptors in the inflammatory activation of astrocytes. First, the presence of NMDA receptor subunits was confirmed at the protein level by immunocytochemical methods. The presence of functional NMDA receptors containing GluN2B subunits was then established by ratiometric fluorescent Ca(2+) imaging which revealed transient NMDA-triggered Ca(2+) responses. These responses could be blocked by the competitive antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentoate (APV) and the non-competitive GluN2B subunit-selective antagonist ifenprodil. The NMDA-evoked Ca(2+) transients were dependent on Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores via interaction with InsP3-sensitive receptors as they were blocked by thapsigargin or xestospongin C. Following 24h incubation with LPS, astroglial inflammatory activation increased IL-1 secretion and NMDA-triggered Ca(2+) transients. The addition of APV or ifenprodil inhibited these enhanced responses, suggesting that LPS exposure stimulates IL-1 release from astrocytes through a mechanism that requires NMDA receptor stimulation.
Anhedonic symptoms, which include loss of pleasure, appetite and motivation, are key symptoms of major depressive disorder (MDD) and are thought to depend on a neural circuit of the mesolimbic system. The neuropeptide ghrelin plays a crucial role in appetite and reward. Little is known, however, about the role of ghrelin in MDD. We examined the association between morphometric change and plasma ghrelin levels in patients with MDD. Twenty-four patients with MDD and 24 healthy control subjects were studied. Plasma concentration of acylated ghrelin was measured after a period of fasting. Using voxel-based morphometry, we found a main effect of ghrelin on the volume of several brain regions. We then compared these regional volumes in patients with MDD versus healthy subjects. We also compared brain volumes between the two groups, controlling for ghrelin level. There was no significant difference in plasma acylated ghrelin level between patients with MDD and healthy subjects. In the MDD group, ghrelin levels positively correlated with the severity of reduced appetite. Ghrelin levels negatively correlated with gray matter volume of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) in the total sample. The patients with MDD showed significantly smaller VTA gray matter volume compared to healthy subjects. Controlling for the plasma acylated ghrelin level, patients with MDD showed significantly smaller gray matter volume of right substantia nigra compared to healthy subjects. Our findings suggest that plasma acylated ghrelin is associated with neural abnormalities of the pleasure/reward system and may be involved in the pathophysiology of MDD.
There is ample evidence of gender differences in neural processes and behavior. Differences in reward-related behaviors have been linked to either temporary or permanent organizational influences of gonadal hormones on the mesolimbic dopamine system and reward-related activation. Still, little is known about the association between biological gender and the neural underpinnings of the ability to resist reward-related impulses. Here we assessed with functional magnetic resonance imaging which neural processes enable men and women to successfully control their desire for immediate reward when this is required by a higher-order goal (i.e., during a 'desire-reason dilemma'; Diekhof and Gruber, 2010). Thirty-two participants (16 females) were closely matched for age, personality characteristics (e.g., novelty seeking) and behavioral performance in the 'desire-reason task'. On the neural level, men and women showed similarities in the general response of the nucleus accumbens and of the ventral tegmental area to predictors of immediate reward, but they differed in additional brain mechanisms that enabled self-controlled decisions against the preference for immediate reward. Firstly, men exhibited a stronger reduction of activation in the ventral pallidum, putamen, temporal pole and pregenual anterior cingulate cortex during the 'desire-reason dilemma'. Secondly, connectivity analyses revealed a significant change in the direction of the connectivity between anteroventral prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens during decisions counteracting the reward-related impulse when comparing men and women. Together, these findings support the view of a sexual dimorphism that manifested in the recruitment of gender-specific neural resources during the successful deployment of self-control.

Neural stem cells (NSCs) expressing GFP were embedded into fibrin matrices containing growth factor cocktails and grafted to sites of severe spinal cord injury. Grafted cells differentiated into multiple cellular phenotypes, including neurons, which extended large numbers of axons over remarkable distances. Extending axons formed abundant synapses with host cells. Axonal growth was partially dependent on mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), but not Nogo signaling. Grafted neurons supported formation of electrophysiological relays across sites of complete spinal transection, resulting in functional recovery. Two human stem cell lines (566RSC and HUES7) embedded in growth-factor-containing fibrin exhibited similar growth, and 566RSC cells supported functional recovery. Thus, properties intrinsic to early-stage neurons can overcome the inhibitory milieu of the injured adult spinal cord to mount remarkable axonal growth, resulting in formation of new relay circuits that significantly improve function. These therapeutic properties extend across stem cell sources and species.
For nearly a century, neuroscientists have sought to restore neurological function across spinal cord lesions. Lu etal. now present significant progress toward this goal, showing in rats that transplanted neural stem cells establish a functional bridge across completely transected spinal cords.

Recent high resolution x-ray structures of the 2-adrenergic receptor confirmed a close salt-bridge interaction between the suspected micro-switch residue ArgIII:26 (Arg3.50) and the neighboring AspIII:25 (Asp3.49). However, neither the expected &quot;ionic lock&quot; interactions between ArgIII:26 and GluVI:-06 (Glu6.30) in the inactive conformation nor the interaction with TyrV:24 (Tyr5.58) in the active conformation were observed in the x-ray structures. Here we find through molecular dynamics simulations, after removal of the stabilizing T4 lysozyme, that the expected salt bridge between ArgIII:26 and GluVI:-06 does form relatively easily in the inactive receptor conformation. Moreover, mutational analysis of GluVI:-06 in TM-VI and the neighboring AspIII:25 in TM-III demonstrated that these two residues do function as locks for the inactive receptor conformation as we observed increased G(s) signaling, arrestin mobilization, and internalization upon alanine substitutions. Conversely, TyrV:24 appears to play a role in stabilizing the active receptor conformation as loss of function of G(s) signaling, arrestin mobilization, and receptor internalization was observed upon alanine substitution of TyrV:24. The loss of function of the TyrV:24 mutant could partly be rescued by alanine substitution of either AspIII:25 or GluVI:-06 in the double mutants. Surprisingly, removal of the side chain of the ArgIII:26 micro-switch itself had no effect on G(s) signaling and internalization and only reduced arrestin mobilization slightly. It is suggested that ArgIII:26 is equally important for stabilizing the inactive and the active conformation through interaction with key residues in TM-III, -V, and -VI, but that the ArgIII:26 micro-switch residue itself apparently is not essential for the actual G protein activation.
Parkinson disease is characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons mainly in the substantia nigra. Accumulation of -synuclein and cell loss has been also reported in many other brain regions including the hippocampus, where it might impair adult neurogenesis, contributing to nonmotor symptoms. However, the molecular mechanisms of these alterations are still unknown. In this report we show that -synuclein-accumulating adult rat hippocampus neural progenitors present aberrant neuronal differentiation, with reduction of Notch1 expression and downstream signaling targets. We characterized a Notch1 proximal promoter that contains p53 canonical response elements. In vivo binding of p53 represses the transcription of Notch1 in neurons. Moreover, we demonstrated that -synuclein directly binds to the DNA at Notch1 promoter vicinity and also interacts with p53 protein, facilitating or increasing Notch1 signaling repression, which interferes with maturation and survival of neural progenitors cells. This study provides a molecular basis for -synuclein-mediated disruption of adult neurogenesis in Parkinson disease.
Phosphatidylinositol transfer proteins (PITPs) are versatile proteins required for signal transduction and membrane traffic. The best characterized mammalian PITPs are the Class I PITPs, PITP (PITPNA) and PITP (PITPNB), which are single domain proteins with a hydrophobic cavity that binds a phosphatidylinositol (PI) or phosphatidylcholine molecule. In this study, we report the lipid binding properties of an uncharacterized soluble PITP, phosphatidylinositol transfer protein, cytoplasmic 1 (PITPNC1) (alternative name, RdgB), of the Class II family. We show that the lipid binding properties of this protein are distinct to Class I PITPs because, besides PI, RdgB binds and transfers phosphatidic acid (PA) but hardly binds phosphatidylcholine. RdgB when purified from Escherichia coli is preloaded with PA and phosphatidylglycerol. When RdgB was incubated with permeabilized HL60 cells, phosphatidylglycerol was released, and PA and PI were now incorporated into RdgB. After an increase in PA levels following activation of endogenous phospholipase D or after addition of bacterial phospholipase D, binding of PA to RdgB was greater at the expense of PI binding. We propose that RdgB, when containing PA, regulates an effector protein or can facilitate lipid transfer between membrane compartments.
Previous work on the effect of aging on spontaneous object recognition (SOR) memory tasks in rats has yielded controversial results. Although the results at long-retention intervals are consistent, conflicting results have been reported at shorter delays. We have assessed the potential relevance of the type of object used in the performance of aged rats in SOR tasks. Using standard objects, 24-mo-old rats did not exhibit retention impairment at a 1-h delay. At this retention interval no differences between young and old rats were found in a high-similarity SOR task, but aged rats exhibited deficits when clearly different complex forms were applied.
Doublecortin (Dcx) defines a growing family of microtubule (MT)-associated proteins (MAPs) involved in neuronal migration and process outgrowth. We show that Dcx is essential for the function of Kif1a, a kinesin-3 motor protein that traffics synaptic vesicles. Neurons lacking Dcx and/or its structurally conserved paralogue, doublecortin-like kinase 1 (Dclk1), show impaired Kif1a-mediated transport of Vamp2, a cargo of Kif1a, with decreased run length. Human disease-associated mutations in Dcx's linker sequence (e.g., W146C, K174E) alter Kif1a/Vamp2 transport by disrupting Dcx/Kif1a interactions without affecting Dcx MT binding. Dcx specifically enhances binding of the ADP-bound Kif1a motor domain to MTs. Cryo-electron microscopy and subnanometer-resolution image reconstruction reveal the kinesin-dependent conformational variability of MT-bound Dcx and suggest a model for MAP-motor crosstalk on MTs. Alteration of kinesin run length by MAPs represents a previously undiscovered mode of control of kinesin transport and provides a mechanism for regulation of MT-based transport by local signals.
Markov chains provide realistic models of numerous stochastic processes in nature. We demonstrate that in any Markov chain, the change in occupation number in state A is correlated to the change in occupation number in state B if and only if A and B are directly connected. This implies that if we are only interested in state A, fluctuations in B may be replaced with their mean if state B is not directly connected to A, which shortens computing time considerably. We show the accuracy and efficacy of our approximation theoretically and in simulations of stochastic ion-channel gating in neurons.



BACKGROUND AND AIM: The increased mortality rates of survivors of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage have been attributed to an increased risk of cardiovascular events in a registry study in Sweden. Swedish registries have however not been validated for subarachnoid haemorrhage and Scandinavian incidences of cardiovascular disease differ from that in Western European countries. We assessed risks of vascular disease and death in subarachnoid haemorrhage survivors in the Netherlands. METHODS: From the Dutch hospital discharge register, we identified all patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage admission between 1997 and 2008. We determined the accuracy of coding of the diagnosis subarachnoid haemorrhage for patients admitted to our centre. Conditional on survival of three-months after the subarachnoid haemorrhage, we calculated standardized incidence and mortality ratios for fatal or nonfatal vascular diseases, vascular death, and all-cause death. Cumulative risks were estimated with survival analysis. RESULTS: The diagnosis of nontraumatic subarachnoid haemorrhage was correct in 954% of 1472 patients. Of 11263 admitted subarachnoid haemorrhage patients, 6999 survived more than three-months. During follow-up (mean 51 years), 874 (125%) died. The risks of death were 33% within one-year, 113% within five-years, and 215% within 10 years. The standardized mortality ratio was 34 (95% confidence interval: 31 to 37) for vascular death and 22 (95% confidence interval: 21 to 23) for all-cause death. The standardized incidence ratio for fatal or nonfatal vascular diseases was 27 (95% confidence interval: 26 to 28). CONCLUSIONS: Dutch hospital discharge and cause of death registries are a valid source of data for subarachnoid haemorrhage, and show that the increased mortality rate in subarachnoid haemorrhage survivors is explained by increased risks for vascular diseases and death.


APOE genotype is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). The risk and severity of CAA increase with possession of APOE 4, whereas APOE 2 increases the risk of vessel rupture. Uptake of A by cerebrovascular smooth muscle cells (CVSMCs) is mediated by low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 (LRP1). To determine whether APOE influences CAA by altering LRP1 expression, particularly by CVSMCs, we analysed APOE genotype, CAA severity, and LRP1 levels in post-mortem cerebral cortex, choroid plexus and meningeal vessels. LRP1 mRNA and protein were not related to CAA severity and presence. LRP1 mRNA was increased in meningeal vessels, but not cortex or choroid plexus, in AD and in association with APOE 4, and was decreased in association with APOE 3. In brains with CAA, APOE 2 was associated with decreased LRP1 protein in meningeal vessels, and 3 with increased LRP1 in choroid plexus. These findings suggest that APOE may influence the severity of CAA through altered expression of LRP1.



Calcium current through voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCC) controls gene expression. Here, we describe a novel signalling pathway in which the VGCC Cacnb4 subunit directly couples neuronal excitability to transcription. Electrical activity induces Cacnb4 association to Ppp2r5d, a regulatory subunit of PP2A phosphatase, followed by (i) nuclear translocation of Cacnb4/Ppp2r5d/PP2A, (ii) association with the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene promoter through the nuclear transcription factor thyroid hormone receptor alpha (TR), and (iii) histone binding through association of Cacnb4 with HP1 concomitantly with Ser(10) histone H3 dephosphorylation by PP2A. This signalling cascade leads to TH gene repression by Cacnb4 and is controlled by the state of interaction between the SH3 and guanylate kinase (GK) modules of Cacnb4. The human R482X CACNB4 mutation, responsible for a form of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy, prevents association with Ppp2r5 and nuclear targeting of the complex by altering Cacnb4 conformation. These findings demonstrate that an intact VGCC subunit acts as a repressor recruiting platform to control neuronal gene expression.
During the 5th International Conference on Polyphenols and Health that was held in Sitges (Spain) in October 2011, the latest advances in this area of active research were presented. Sessions on polyphenol effects on cardiovascular disease, polyphenols as ingredients of functional foods, the role of polyphenols in preventing obesity and diabetes, the interaction of polyphenols with gut microbiota, bioavailability and metabolism of polyphenols in humans, the mechanisms of action of these metabolites in different models, new methodologies for the study of the role of polyphenols in health, polyphenols and cancer, recent developments in phenolic compounds and neuroscience, and polyphenols in epidemiology and public health were organized. This highlight issue presents a selection of papers from invited speakers, oral presentations, and poster prize winners. The perspectives for this exciting area of very active research were also discussed at the meeting and are summarized in this introductory paper.
Kainate receptors can be subject to voltage-dependent block by intracellular polyamines, which causes inward rectification of the current-voltage relationship. Sensitivity to polyamine block is largely determined by the identity of a residue within the pore domain that can be altered through RNA editing. This process causes replacement of the encoded glutamine(Q) with a positively charged arginine(R), eliminating polyamine inhibition and thus inward rectification. In neurons, kainate receptors can associate with the auxiliary subunits Neto1 or Neto2. These transmembrane proteins alter the trafficking, channel kinetics, and pharmacology of the receptors in a subunit-dependent manner. We found that coexpression of Neto subunits with recombinant GluK2(Q) kainate receptors greatly reduced inward rectification without altering calcium permeability. This effect was separate from modulation of channel kinetics, as mutations within the extracellular LDLa domain of the Neto proteins completely eliminated their effects on desensitization but only reduced their effects on rectification. Conversely, deletion of the intracellular C-terminal domain of Neto1 or Neto2 or neutralization of positively charged residues within this domain prevented the reduction in rectification but did not alter effects on channel kinetics. These results demonstrate new roles for Neto1 and Neto2 in regulating kainate receptor function and identify domains within these auxiliary subunits important for mediating their effects.
The blink reflex elicited by the electrical stimulation of the median nerve at the wrist [hand blink reflex (HBR)] is a subcortical, defensive response that is enhanced when the stimulated hand is inside the peripersonal space of the face. Such enhancement results from a tonic, top-down modulation of the excitability of the brainstem interneurons mediating the HBR. Here we aim to (1) characterize the somatotopical specificity of this top-down modulation and investigate its dependence on (2) cognitive expectations and (3) the presence of objects protecting the face, in healthy humans. Experiment 1 showed that the somatotopical specificity of the HBR enhancement is partially homosegmental, i.e., it is greater for the HBR elicited by the stimulation of the hand near the face compared with the other hand, always kept far from the face. Experiment 2 showed that the HBR is enhanced only when participants expect to receive stimuli on the hand close to the face and is thus strongly dependent on cognitive expectations. Experiment 3 showed that the HBR enhancement by hand-face proximity is suppressed when a thin wooden screen is placed between the participants' face and their hand. Thus, the screen reduces the extension of the defensive peripersonal space, so that the hand is never inside the peripersonal space of the face, even in the &quot;near&quot; condition. Together, these findings indicate a fine somatotopical and cognitive tuning of the excitability of brainstem circuits subserving the HBR, whose strength is adjusted depending on the context in a purposeful manner.
The corticospinal tract (CST) has dense contralateral and sparse ipsilateral spinal cord projections that converge with proprioceptive afferents on common spinal targets. Previous studies in adult rats indicate that the loss of dense contralateral spinal CST connections after unilateral pyramidal tract section (PTx), which models CST loss after stroke or spinal cord injury, leads to outgrowth from the spared side into the affected, ipsilateral, spinal cord. The reaction of proprioceptive afferents after this CST injury, however, is not known. Knowledge of proprioceptive afferent responses after loss of the CST could inform mechanisms of maladaptive plasticity in spinal sensorimotor circuits after injury. Here, we hypothesize that the loss of the contralateral CST results in a reactive increase in muscle afferents from the impaired limb and enhancement of their physiological actions within the cervical spinal cord. We found that 10 d after PTx, proprioceptive afferents sprout into cervical gray matter regions denervated by the loss of CST terminations. Furthermore, VGlut1-positive boutons, indicative of group 1A afferent terminals, increased on motoneurons. PTx also produced an increase in microglial density within the gray matter regions where CST terminations were lost. These anatomical changes were paralleled by reduction in frequency-dependent depression of the H-reflex, suggesting hyperreflexia. Our data demonstrate for the first time that selective CST injury induces maladaptive afferent fiber plasticity remote from the lesion. Our findings suggest a novel structural reaction of proprioceptive afferents to the loss of CST terminations and provide insight into mechanisms underlying spasticity.
Behavioral control over a stressful event reduces the negative consequences of not only that event, but also future stressful events. Plasticity in the prelimbic (PL) medial prefrontal cortex is critical to this process, but the nature of the changes induced is unknown. We used patch-clamp recording to measure the intrinsic excitability of PL pyramidal neurons in acute slices from rats exposed to either escapable stress (ES), for which rats had behavioral control over tail-shock termination, or inescapable stress (IS) without control. Shortly after exposure (2 h) to tail-shock stress, neurons in the ES group had larger action potential (AP) amplitude and faster AP rise rate, larger postspike afterdepolarization, and reduced membrane time constant. No significant effects of IS were observed. We developed a conductance-based computer model using the simulation tool NEURON. The computer model simulated the observed changes in the ES group with increases in Na+ conductance (gNa) and T-type Ca2+ conductance (gCa(T)). The empirical and computational results indicate that behavioral control over stress, but not stress itself, increases PL pyramidal neuron excitability by increasing intrinsic membrane excitability. It is proposed that plasticity of excitability is important to the behavioral effects of controllable stressor exposure.
The cerebellum is a site of complex sensorimotor integration and contains up to 80% of the neurons in the brain, yet comparatively little is known about the organization of sensorimotor systems within the cerebellum. It is known that afferent projections and Purkinje cell (PC) response properties are organized into sagittal &quot;zones&quot; in the cerebellum. Moreover, the isoenzyme aldolase C [also known as zebrin II (ZII)] is heterogeneously expressed in cerebellar PCs such that there are sagittal stripes of PCs with high expression (ZII+) interdigitated with stripes of little or no expression (ZII-). In the present study, we show how the ZII stripes in folium IXcd of the vestibulocerebellum in pigeons are related to response properties of PCs. IXcd consists of seven pairs of ZII+/- stripes denoted P1+/- (medial) to P7+/- (lateral). Electrophysiological studies have shown that vestibulocerebellar PCs respond to particular patterns of optic flow resulting from self-motion in three-dimensional space. In our study, we recorded optic flow preferences from PCs in IXcd, marked recording locations with injections of fluorescent tracer, and subsequently immunoreacted coronal sections for ZII. We found that the PCs within a ZII+/- stripe pair all responded best to the same pattern of optic flow. That is, a ZII+/- stripe pair forms a functional unit in the cerebellum. This is the first demonstration that the function of PCs is associated with ZII stripes across the mediolateral extent of an entire folium.
Previous neurophysiological studies of perceptual decision-making have focused on single-unit activity, providing insufficient information about how individual decisions are accomplished. For the first time, we recorded simultaneously from multiple decision-related neurons in parietal cortex of monkeys performing a perceptual decision task and used these recordings to analyze the neural dynamics during single trials. We demonstrate that decision-related lateral intraparietal area neurons typically undergo gradual changes in firing rate during individual decisions, as predicted by mechanisms based on continuous integration of sensory evidence. Furthermore, we identify individual decisions that can be described as a change of mind: the decision circuitry was transiently in a state associated with a different choice before transitioning into a state associated with the final choice. These changes of mind reflected in monkey neural activity share similarities with previously reported changes of mind reflected in human behavior.
Protease-mediated signaling is an important modulator of the nervous system. However, identifying the specific signaling substrates of such proteases is limited by the rapidity with which intermediate substrate forms are cleaved and released. Here, a screening method to detect noncleaved enzyme-bound forms was developed and used to identify a novel neuropsin/neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) proteolytic signaling system, which is specifically localized in the microdomain of synaptic cleft, in the mouse hippocampus. The extracellular protease, neuropsin, cleaved mature NRG-1 (comprising the extracellular domain of the NRG-1) at three newly identified sites to remove the heparin-binding domain of NRG-1. This released the ligand moiety from the matrix-glycosaminoglycan pool and enabled it to trigger the phosphorylation of NRG-1 receptor, p185 (ErbB4). Proteolysis of mature NRG-1 by neuropsin led to colocalization of the processed NRG-1 with ErbB4 in parvalbumin-positive hippocampal interneurons and consequent phosphorylation of tyrosine residues of proteins in the cells. Moreover, neuropsin knock-out mice exhibited impairments in Schaffer collateral early phase long-term potentiation, and application of the recombinant NRG-1 lacking heparin-binding activity reversed the effects through the activation of ErbB4 and GABA(A) receptors. Thus, ErbB4 signaling induced by neuropsin-dependent processing of NRG-1 contributes to the modulation of synaptic plasticity via regulation of GABAergic transmission. This signaling system may be involved in human cognition and mental disorders, such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, by its dysfunction.
Auditory cortex pertains to the processing of sound, which is at the basis of speech or music-related processing. However, despite considerable recent progress, the functional properties and lateralization of the human auditory cortex are far from being fully understood. Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) is a non-invasive technique that can transiently or lastingly modulate cortical excitability via the application of localized magnetic field pulses, and represents a unique method of exploring plasticity and connectivity. It has only recently begun to be applied to understand auditory cortical function. An important issue in using TMS is that the physiological consequences of the stimulation are difficult to establish. Although many TMS studies make the implicit assumption that the area targeted by the coil is the area affected, this need not be the case, particularly for complex cognitive functions which depend on interactions across many brain regions. One solution to this problem is to combine TMS with functional Magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The idea here is that fMRI will provide an index of changes in brain activity associated with TMS. Thus, fMRI would give an independent means of assessing which areas are affected by TMS and how they are modulated. In addition, fMRI allows the assessment of functional connectivity, which represents a measure of the temporal coupling between distant regions. It can thus be useful not only to measure the net activity modulation induced by TMS in given locations, but also the degree to which the network properties are affected by TMS, via any observed changes in functional connectivity. Different approaches exist to combine TMS and functional imaging according to the temporal order of the methods. Functional MRI can be applied before, during, after, or both before and after TMS. Recently, some studies interleaved TMS and fMRI in order to provide online mapping of the functional changes induced by TMS. However, this online combination has many technical problems, including the static artifacts resulting from the presence of the TMS coil in the scanner room, or the effects of TMS pulses on the process of MR image formation. But more importantly, the loud acoustic noise induced by TMS (increased compared with standard use because of the resonance of the scanner bore) and the increased TMS coil vibrations (caused by the strong mechanical forces due to the static magnetic field of the MR scanner) constitute a crucial problem when studying auditory processing. This is one reason why fMRI was carried out before and after TMS in the present study. Similar approaches have been used to target the motor cortex, premotor cortex, primary somatosensory cortex and language-related areas, but so far no combined TMS-fMRI study has investigated the auditory cortex. The purpose of this article is to provide details concerning the protocol and considerations necessary to successfully combine these two neuroscientific tools to investigate auditory processing. Previously we showed that repetitive TMS (rTMS) at high and low frequencies (resp. 10 Hz and 1 Hz) applied over the auditory cortex modulated response time (RT) in a melody discrimination task. We also showed that RT modulation was correlated with functional connectivity in the auditory network assessed using fMRI: the higher the functional connectivity between left and right auditory cortices during task performance, the higher the facilitatory effect (i.e. decreased RT) observed with rTMS. However those findings were mainly correlational, as fMRI was performed before rTMS. Here, fMRI was carried out before and immediately after TMS to provide direct measures of the functional organization of the auditory cortex, and more specifically of the plastic reorganization of the auditory neural network occurring after the neural intervention provided by TMS. Combined fMRI and TMS applied over the auditory cortex should enable a better understanding of brain mechanisms of auditory processing, providing physiological information about functional effects of TMS. This knowledge could be useful for many cognitive neuroscience applications, as well as for optimizing therapeutic applications of TMS, particularly in auditory-related disorders.
Sleep deprivation affects cerebral metabolism and reduces the functional connectivity among various regions of the brain, potentially explaining some of the associated mood and emotional changes often observed. Prior neuroimaging studies have only examined the effects of sleep deprivation or partial sleep restriction on functional connectivity, but none have studied how such connectivity is associated with normal variations in self-reported sleep duration the night before the scan. We examined the relationship between sleep duration and resting state functional connectivity among healthy volunteers who slept at home according to their own schedules. Thirty-nine healthy individuals aged 18-45 (21 females) completed a questionnaire asking about their recent sleep habits and entries in their sleep diary for the previous night, followed by resting state functional MRI at 3 T. Participants reported sleeping between 5.0 and 8.5 h the night before the scan (M=7.0, SD=0.9). Seed regions were placed in the medial prefrontal cortex and posterior cingulate cortex nodes of the default mode network, regions previously implicated in sleep deprivation. Longer self-reported sleep duration was associated with significantly enhanced functional connectivity between the medial prefrontal cortex and posterior cingulate, as well as greater anticorrelations with parietal, occipital, and lateral prefrontal regions. Findings suggest that even normal variations in sleep duration measured by self-report are related to the strength of functional connectivity within select nodes of the default mode network and its anticorrelated network.

The term 'mood' in its scientific usage refers to relatively enduring affective states that arise when negative or positive experience in one context or time period alters the individual's threshold for responding to potentially negative or positive events in subsequent contexts or time periods. The capacity for mood appears to be phylogenetically widespread and the mechanisms underlying it are highly conserved in diverse animals, suggesting it has an important adaptive function. In this review, we discuss how moods can be classified across species, and what the selective advantages of the capacity for mood are. Core moods can be localised within a two-dimensional continuous space, where one axis represents sensitivity to punishment or threat, and the other, sensitivity to reward. Depressed mood and anxious mood represent two different quadrants of this space. The adaptive function of mood is to integrate information about the recent state of the environment and current physical condition of the organism to fine-tune its decisions about the allocation of behavioural effort. Many empirical observations from both humans and non-human animals are consistent with this model. We discuss the implications of this adaptive approach to mood systems for mood disorders in humans.
For decades, the marine snail Aplysia has proven to be a powerful system for analyzing basic neurobiological mechanisms, particularly cellular and molecular mechanisms of neural plasticity. Three new findings on Aplysia may be relevant for the understanding and treatment of chronic human disorders. This research on this simple molluscan nervous system may lead to new therapeutic approaches for spinal cord injury, Fragile X syndrome, and genetic learning deficits more generally.
Regularities are gradually represented in cortex after extensive experience, and yet they can influence behavior after minimal exposure. What kind of representations support such rapid statistical learning? The medial temporal lobe (MTL) can represent information from even a single experience, making it a good candidate system for assisting in initial learning about regularities. We combined anatomical segmentation of the MTL, high-resolution fMRI, and multivariate pattern analysis to identify representations of objects in cortical and hippocampal areas of human MTL, assessing how these representations were shaped by exposure to regularities. Subjects viewed a continuous visual stream containing hidden temporal relationships--pairs of objects that reliably appeared nearby in time. We compared the pattern of blood oxygen level-dependent activity evoked by each object before and after this exposure, and found that perirhinal cortex, parahippocampal cortex, subiculum, CA1, and CA2/CA3/dentate gyrus (CA2/3/DG) encoded regularities by increasing the representational similarity of their constituent objects. Most regions exhibited bidirectional associative shaping, whereas CA2/3/DG represented regularities in a forward-looking predictive manner. These findings suggest that object representations in MTL come to mirror the temporal structure of the environment, supporting rapid and incidental statistical learning.
Cortical malformations can cause intractable epilepsy, but the underlying epileptogenic mechanisms are poorly understood. We used high-speed glutamate biosensor imaging to ask how glutamatergic signaling is altered in cortical malformations induced by neonatal freeze-lesions (FL). In non-lesion neocortical slices from 2 to 8week old rats, evoked glutamate signals were symmetrical in the medio-lateral axis and monotonic, correlating with simple, brief (50ms) local field potentials (LFPs). By contrast, in FL cortex glutamate signals were prolonged, increased in amplitude, and polyphasic, which paralleled a prolongation of the LFP. Using glutamate biosensor imaging, we found that glutamate signals propagated throughout large areas of FL cortex and were asymmetric (skewed toward the lesion). Laminar analysis demonstrated a shift in the region of maximal glutamate release toward superficial layers in FL cortex. The ability to remove exogenous glutamate was increased within the FL itself but was decreased in immediately adjacent regions. There were corresponding alterations in astrocyte density, with an increase within the lesion and a decrease in deep cortical layers surrounding the lesion. These findings demonstrate both network connectivity and glutamate metabolism are altered in this cortical malformation model and suggests that the regional ability of astrocytes to remove released glutamate may be inversely related to local excitability.


Albinism, in humans and many animal species, has a major impact on the visual system, leading to reduced acuity, lack of binocular function and nystagmus. In addition to the lack of a foveal pit, there is a disruption to the routing of the nerve fibers crossing at the optic chiasm, resulting in excessive crossing of fibers to the contralateral hemisphere. However, very little is known about the effect of this misrouting on the structure of the post-chiasmatic visual pathway, and the occipital lobes in particular. Whole-brain analyses of cortical thickness in a large cohort of subjects with albinism showed an increase in cortical thickness, relative to control subjects, particularly in posterior V1, corresponding to the foveal representation. Furthermore, mean cortical thickness across entire V1 was significantly greater in these subjects compared to controls and negatively correlated with visual acuity in albinism. Additionally, the group with albinism showed decreased gyrification in the left ventral occipital lobe. While the increase in cortical thickness in V1, also found in congenitally blind subjects, has been interpreted to reflect a lack of pruning, the decreased gyrification in the ventral extrastriate cortex may reflect the reduced input to the foveal regions of the ventral visual stream.




Our group previously described and mapped to chromosomal region 12p13 a form of dominantly inherited hereditary spastic ataxia (HSA) in three large Newfoundland (Canada) families. This report identifies vesicle-associated membrane protein 1 (VAMP1), which encodes a critical protein for synaptic exocytosis, as the responsible gene. In total, 50 affected individuals from these families and three independent probands from Ontario (Canada) share the disease phenotype together with a disruptive VAMP1 mutation that affects acritical donor site for the splicing of VAMP1 isoforms. This mutation leads to the loss of the only VAMP1 isoform (VAMP1A) expressed in the nervous system, thus highlighting an association between the well-studied VAMP1 and a neurological disorder. Given the variable phenotype seen in the affected individuals examined here, we believe that VAMP1 should be tested for mutations in patients with either ataxia or spastic paraplegia.
DUF1220 domains show the largest human-lineage-specific increase in copy number of any protein-coding region in the human genome and map primarily to 1q21, where deletions and reciprocal duplications have been associated with microcephaly and macrocephaly, respectively. Given these findings and the high correlation between DUF1220 copy number and brain size across primate lineages (R(2) = 0.98; p = 1.8  10(-6)), DUF1220 sequences represent plausible candidates for underlying 1q21-associated brain-size pathologies. To investigate this possibility, we used specialized bioinformatics tools developed for scoring highly duplicated DUF1220 sequences to implement targeted 1q21 array comparative genomic hybridization on individuals (n = 42) with 1q21-associated microcephaly and macrocephaly. We show that of all the 1q21 genes examined (n = 53), DUF1220 copy number shows the strongest association with brain size among individuals with 1q21-associated microcephaly, particularly with respect to the three evolutionarily conserved DUF1220 clades CON1(p = 0.0079), CON2 (p = 0.0134), and CON3 (p = 0.0116). Interestingly, all 1q21 DUF1220-encoding genes belonging to the NBPF family show significant correlations with frontal-occipital-circumference Z scores in the deletion group. In a similar survey of a nondisease population, we show that DUF1220 copy number exhibits the strongest correlation with brain gray-matter volume (CON1, p = 0.0246; and CON2, p = 0.0334). Notably, only DUF1220 sequences are consistently significant in both disease and nondisease populations. Taken together, these data strongly implicate the loss of DUF1220 copy number in the etiology of 1q21-associated microcephaly and support the view that DUF1220 domains function as general effectors of evolutionary, pathological, and normal variation in brain size.
Psychological stress may lead to long-lasting brain dysfunction, specifically altered emotional and cognitive capabilities. Previous studies have demonstrated persistent changes in the expression of key cholinergic genes in the neocortex and hippocampus following stress with muscarinic receptor-mediated enhanced excitability. In the present study we examined cholinergic-mediated glutamatergic transmission in the hippocampus of mice after exposure to stress and its potential role in synaptic plasticity and altered behavior. Adult male mice were tested one month after repeated forced swimming test. Non-treated age-matched animals served as controls. Electrophysiological recordings were performed in the acute in-vitro slice preparation. CA1 pyramidal neurons were recorded using whole cell patch configuration. Extracellular recordings were done in response to Shaffer collaterals (SC) or stratum orien (SO) stimulation. Animal behavior in response to inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) was tested in open field paradigms. In whole cell patch recordings the frequency of excitatory post-synaptic currents (EPSCs) was significantly increased in response to muscarinic activation in stress-exposed animals. This enhanced cholinergic-modulated excitatory transmission is associated with facilitation of long-term potentiation (LTP) in response to tetanic stimulation at the SO but not at the SC. Stress-related behavioral modulation via central cholinergic pathways was enhanced by the central AChE inhibitor, physostigmine, thus further supporting the notion that stress is associated with long lasting hypersensitivity to acetylcholine. Our results revealed a pathway-specific enhancement of cholinergic-dependent glutamatergic transmission in the hippocampus after stress. These changes may underlie specific hippocampal malfunction, including cognitive and emotional disturbances, as observed in patients with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
Melding a benzothiazolium unit with tetraphenylethene generates a new hemicyanine luminogen with aggregation-induced emission characteristics; the luminogen exhibits crystochromism and its solid-state emission can be repeatedly tuned from yellow or orange to red by grinding-fuming or grinding-heating processes due to the transformation from the crystalline to the amorphous state and vice versa.
The function of MeCP2, a methylated DNA-interacting protein that may act as a global chromatin modifier, is controlled by its phosphorylation on serine 421. Here we show that in hippocampal neurons, nuclear calcium signaling controls synaptic activity-induced phosphorylation of MeCP2 on serine 421. Pharmacological inhibition of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein (CaM)kinases blocked activity-induced MeCP2 serine 421 phosphorylation. CaM kinase II (CaMKII) but not CaMKIV, the major nuclear CaM kinase in hippocampal neurons, appeared to mediate this phosphorylation event. Biochemical subcellular fractionations and immunolocalization studies revealed that several isoforms of CaMKII (i.e. CaMKII, -, -, and -) are expressed in the cytosol but are also detectable in the cell nucleus of hippocampal neurons, suggesting that nuclear CaMKII catalyzes MeCP2 serine 421 phosphorylation. Thus, in addition to the classical nuclear calcium-CaMKIV-CREB/CBP (cAMP-response element-binding protein/CREB-binding protein) pathway that regulates transcription of specific target genes, nuclear calcium may also modulate genome-wide the chromatin state in response to synaptic activity via nuclear CaMKII-MeCP2 signaling.
Erythropoietin (EPO) improves cognitive performance in clinical studies and rodent experiments. We hypothesized that an intrinsic role of EPO for cognition exists, with particular relevance in situations of cognitive decline, which is reflected by associations of EPO and EPO receptor (EPOR) genotypes with cognitive functions. To prove this hypothesis, schizophrenic patients (N &gt; 1000) were genotyped for 5' upstream-located gene variants, EPO SNP rs1617640 (T/G) and EPORSTR(GA)(n). Associations of these variants were obtained for cognitive processing speed, fine motor skills and short-term memory readouts, with one particular combination of genotypes superior to all others (p &lt; 0.0001). In an independent healthy control sample (N &gt; 800), these associations were confirmed. A matching preclinical study with mice demonstrated cognitive processing speed and memory enhanced upon transgenic expression of constitutively active EPOR in pyramidal neurons of cortex and hippocampus. We thus predicted that the human genotypes associated with better cognition would reflect gain-of-function effects. Indeed, reporter gene assays and quantitative transcriptional analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells showed genotype-dependent EPO/EPOR expression differences. Together, these findings reveal a role of endogenous EPO/EPOR for cognition, at least in schizophrenic patients.
The 1,2-addition of alkyl Grignard reagents to readily available N-tert-butanesulfinyl ketimines, bearing an -silyloxy substituent, proceeds in high yields and excellent diastereocontrol. The utility of the present method was demonstrated by the synthesis, in enantiomerically pure form, of one recently disclosed -secretase (BACE1) inhibitor.


In contrast to the well-established roles of the striatum in movement generation and value-based decisions, its contributions to perceptual decisions lack direct experimental support. Here, we show that electrical microstimulation in the monkey caudate nucleus influences both choice and saccade response time on a visual motion discrimination task. Within a drift-diffusion framework, these effects consist of two components. The perceptual component biases choices toward ipsilateral targets, away from the neurons' predominantly contralateral response fields. The choice bias is consistent with a nonzero starting value of the diffusion process, which increases and decreases decision times for contralateral and ipsilateral choices, respectively. The nonperceptual component decreases and increases nondecision times toward contralateral and ipsilateral targets, respectively, consistent with the caudate's role in saccade generation. The results imply a causal role for the caudate in perceptual decisions used to select saccades that may be distinct from its role in executing those saccades.
A fundamental question in developmental neuroscience is how a collection of progenitor cells proliferates and differentiates to create a brain of the appropriate size and cellular composition. To address this issue, we devised lineage-tracing assays in developing zebrafish embryos to reconstruct entire retinal lineage progressions in vivo and thereby provide a complete quantitative map of the generation of a vertebrate CNS tissue from individual progenitors. These lineage data are consistent with a simple model in which the retina is derived from a set of equipotent retinal progenitor cells (RPCs) that are subject to stochastic factors controlling lineage progression. Clone formation in mutant embryos reveals that the transcription factor Ath5 acts as a molecular link between fate choice and mode of cell division, giving insight into the elusive molecular mechanisms of histogenesis, the conserved temporal order by which neurons of different types exit the cell cycle.
Neuronal computation is energetically expensive. Consequently, the brain's limited energy supply imposes constraints on its information processing capability. Most brain energy is used on synaptic transmission, making it important to understand how energy is provided to and used by synapses. We describe how information transmission through presynaptic terminals and postsynaptic spines is related to their energy consumption, assess which mechanisms normally ensure an adequate supply of ATP to these structures, consider the influence of synaptic plasticity and changing brain state on synaptic energy use, and explain how disruption of the energy supply to synapses leads to neuropathology.
How inhibition regulates dendritic excitability is critical to an understanding of the way neurons integrate the many thousands of synaptic inputs they receive. In this issue of Neuron, Mller etal. (2012) show that inhibition blocks the generation of weak dendritic spikes, leaving strong dendritic spikes intact.
Neuronal proteins contain &quot;address labels&quot; that govern their localization. In this issue of Neuron, Faras etal. (2012) identify the machinery that recognizes one class of dendritic localization signals and establish its role in the polarization of dendritic proteins, including several postsynaptic receptors.
In a previous study we found that the EphA4 receptor inhibits regeneration following spinal cord injury by blocking regrowth of axons and regulation of astrocyte reactivity. In our original studies using EphA4 null mice [Goldshmit et al., J. Neurosci., 2004] we found attenuated astrocyte reactivity following spinal cord injury. Several other studies have now supported the role of EphA4 in regulating neural regeneration but a recent study [Herrmann et al., Exp. Neurol., 2010] did not find an effect of EphA4 on astrocyte reactivity. Re-examination of astrocytic gliosis following injury in our current cohort of EphA4 null mice revealed that they no longer showed attenuation of astrocyte reactivity, however other EphA4 null mouse phenotypes, such as decreased size of the dorsal funiculus were unaltered. We hypothesised that long-term breeding on the C57Bl/6 background may influence the EphA4-mediated astrocyte phenotype and compared astrocytic gliosis at 4 days following spinal cord injury in wildtype and EphA4 null mice on the C57Bl/6 background and backcrossed C57Bl/6129Sv(F2) mice, as well as wildtype 129Sv mice. 129Sv mice had increased GFAP expression and increased numbers of reactive GFAP astrocytes compared to C57Bl/6 mice. There was no significant effect of EphA4 deletion on GFAP expression in C57Bl/6 mice or the F2 crosses other than a moderately decreased number of EphA4 null astrocytes in C57Bl/6 mice using one of two antibodies. Therefore, there has been an apparent change in EphA4-mediated astroglial phenotype associated with long term breeding of the EphA4 colony but it does not appear to be influenced by background mouse strain.
We have assessed the mechanism underlying glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF)-induced mechanical hyperalgesia in the gastrocnemius muscle, using patch clamp electrophysiology, in vivo electrophysiology and behavioral studies. Cultured isolectin B4-positive (IB4+) dorsal root ganglion neurons that innervated this muscle were held under current clamp; the majority developed an increase in action potential duration (a factor of increase of 2.290.24, compared to 1.130.17 in control, P&lt;0.01) in response to GDNF (200 ng/ml) by 15 min after application. They also demonstrated a depolarization of resting membrane potential, but without significant changes in rheobase, action potential peak, or after-hyperpolarization. Large-conductance voltage- and calcium-activated potassium (BK) channels, which have recently been shown to play a role in the repolarization of IB4+ nociceptors, were inhibited under voltage clamp, as indicated by a significant reduction in the iberiotoxin-sensitive current. In vivo single-fiber recording from muscle afferents revealed that injection of iberiotoxin into their peripheral nociceptive field caused an increase in nociceptor firing in response to a 60s suprathreshold stimulus (an increase from 392.2119.8 spikes to 596.1170.8 spikes, P&lt;0.05). This was observed in the absence of changes in the mechanical threshold. Finally, injection of iberiotoxin into the gastrocnemius muscle produced dose-dependent mechanical hyperalgesia. These data support the suggestion that GDNF induces nociceptor sensitization and mechanical hyperalgesia, at least in part, by inhibiting BK current in IB4+ nociceptors.
Elevated sympathetic nerve activity, strongly associated with cardiovascular disease, is partly generated from the presympathetic neurons of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). The PVN-presympathetic neurons regulating cardiac and vasomotor sympathetic activity receive information about cardiovascular status from receptors in the heart and circulation. These receptors signal changes via afferent neurons terminating in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), some of which may result in excitation or inhibition of PVN-presympathetic neurons. Understanding the anatomy and neurochemistry of NTS afferent connections within the PVN could provide important clues to the impairment in homeostasis cardiovascular control associated with disease. Transynaptic labelling has shown the presence of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS)-containing neurons and GABA interneurons that terminate on presympathetic PVN neurons any of which may be the target for NTS afferents. So far NTS connections to these diverse neuronal pools have not been demonstrated and were investigated in this study. Anterograde (biotin dextran amine - BDA) labelling of the ascending projection from the NTS and retrograde (fluorogold - FG or cholera toxin B subunit - CTB) labelling of PVN presympathetic neurons combined with immunohistochemistry for GABA and nNOS was used to identify the terminal neuronal targets of the ascending projection from the NTS. It was shown that NTS afferent terminals are apposed to either PVN-GABA interneurons or to nitric oxide producing neurons or even directly to presympathetic neurons. Furthermore, there was evidence that some NTS axons were positive for vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (vGLUT2). The data provide an anatomical basis for the different functions of cardiovascular receptors that mediate their actions via the NTS-PVN pathways.
The pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus are extremely neuroplastic, and the complexity of dendritic branches can be dynamically altered in response to a variety of stimuli, including learning and stress. Recently, the teneurin family of proteins has emerged as an interneuronal and extracellular matrix signaling system that plays a significant role in brain development and neuronal communication. Encoded on the last exon of the teneurin genes is a new family of bioactive peptides termed the teneurin C-terminal-associated peptides (TCAPs). Previous studies indicate that TCAP-1 regulates axon fasciculation and dendritic morphology in the hippocampus. This study was aimed at understanding the molecular mechanisms by which TCAP-1 regulates these changes in the mouse hippocampus. Fluoresceinisothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled TCAP-1 binds to the pyramidal neurons of the CA2 and CA3, and dentate gyrus in the hippocampus of the mouse brain. Moreover, FITC-TCAP-1 co-localizes with -dystroglycan upon binding to the plasma membrane of cultured immortalized mouse E14 hippocampal cells. In culture, TCAP-1 stimulates ERK1/2-dependent phosphorylation of the cytoskeletal regulatory proteins, stathmin at serine-25 and filamin A at serine-2152. In addition, TCAP-1 induces actin polymerization, increases immunoreactivity of tubulin-based cytoskeletal elements and causes a corresponding increase in filopodia formation and mean filopodia length in cultured hippocampal cells. We postulate that the TCAP-1 region of teneurin-1 has a direct action on the cytoskeletal reorganization that precedes neurite and process development in hippocampal neurons. Our data provides novel evidence that functionally links the teneurin and dystroglycan systems and provides new insight into the molecular mechanisms by which TCAP-1 regulates cytoskeletal dynamics in hippocampal neurons. The TCAP-dystroglycan system may represent a novel mechanism associated with the regulation of hippocampal-function.
It is well known that excitatory amino acids induce unconditioned fear responses when locally injected into the dorsal periaqueductal gray matter (dPAG). However, there are only few studies about the involvement of excitatory amino acids mediation in dPAG in the expression of conditioned fear. The present series of experiments evaluates the participation of AMPA/Kainate and NMDA glutamatergic receptors of dPAG in the expression of conditioned fear, assessed by the fear-potentiated startle (FPS) and conditioned freezing responses. Wistar rats were subjected to fear conditioning to light. Twenty-four hours later, they received intra-dPAG injections of kainic acid or NMDA (AMPA/Kainate and NMDA agonists) and 1,2,3,4-Tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium salt hydrate (NBQX) or D(-)-2-Amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP7) (AMPA/Kainate and NMDA antagonists) and were submitted to the FPS test. Conditioned freezing response was simultaneously measured. Effects of drug treatment on motor activity were evaluated in the open-field test. Intra-dPAG injections of glutamatergic agonists enhanced conditioned freezing and promoted pro-aversive effects in the FPS. Lower doses of the agonists had no effect or enhanced FPS whereas higher doses disrupted FPS, indicating a non-monotonic relationship between fear and FPS. The antagonist NBQX had no significant effects while AP7 decreased conditioned freezing but did not affect FPS. Both antagonists reduced the effects of the agonists. The obtained results cannot be attributed to motor deficits. The results suggest an important role of the AMPA/Kainate and NMDA mechanisms of the dPAG in the expression of conditioned freezing and FPS.
Previous studies have shown that housing mice with toys and running wheels increases adult hippocampal neurogenesis and enhances performance on the water maze. However, the relative contribution of running versus enrichment to the neurogenic and pro-cognitive effects is not clear. Recently, it was demonstrated that enrichment devoid of running wheels does not significantly enhance adult hippocampal neurogenesis in female C57BL/6J mice. However, novel toys were not rotated into the cages, and dietary enrichment was not included, so it could be argued that the environment was not enriched enough. In addition, only females were studied, and animals were group-housed, making it impossible to record individual running behavior or to determine the time spent running versus exploring the toys. Therefore, we repeated the study in singly housed male C57BL/6J mice and enhanced enrichment by rotating novel tactile, visual, dietary, auditory, and vestibular stimuli into the cages. Mice were housed for 32 days in one of four groups: running-only, enrichment-only, running plus enrichment, and standard cage. The first 10 days bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was administered to label dividing cells. The last 5 days mice were tested on the water maze, and then euthanized to measure number of BrdU cells co-labeled with neuronal nuclear marker (NeuN) in the dentate gyrus. Mice in the running-only group ran, on average, equivalent distances as animals in the running plus enrichment group. The combination of enrichment and running did not significantly increase hippocampal neurogenesis any more than running alone did. Animals in the running-only condition were the only group to show enhanced acquisition on water maze relative to standard cage controls. We confirm and extend the conclusion that environmental enrichment alone does not significantly increase hippocampal neurogenesis or bestow spatial learning benefits in male C57BL/6J mice, even when the modalities of enrichment are very broad.
In the present study, the possible involvement of nitric oxide (NO) systems in the dorsal hippocampus in nicotine's effect on ethanol-induced amnesia and ethanol state-dependent memory was investigated. Adult male mice were cannulated in the CA1 regions of the dorsal hippocampus and trained on a passive avoidance learning task for memory assessment. We found that pre-training intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of ethanol (1 g/kg) decreased inhibitory avoidance memory when tested 24 h later. The response induced by pre-training ethanol was significantly reversed by pre-test administration of the drug. Similar to ethanol, pre-test administration of nicotine (0.4 and 0.8 g/mouse, intra-CA1) alone and nicotine (0.2, 0.4 and 0.8 g/mouse) plus an ineffective dose of ethanol also significantly reversed the amnesia induced by ethanol. Ethanol amnesia was also prevented by pre-test administration of L-arginine (1.2 g/mouse, intra-CA1), a NO precursor. Interestingly, an ineffective dose of nicotine (0.2 g/mouse) in combination with a low dose of L-arginine (0.8 g/mouse) synergistically improved memory performance impaired by ethanol given before training. In contrast, pre-test intra-CA1 microinjection of L-NAME (NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester), a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor (0.4 and 0.8 g/mouse), which reduced memory retrieval in inhibitory avoidance task by itself, in combination with an effective dose of nicotine (0.4 g/mouse) prevented the improving effect of nicotine on memory impaired by pre-training ethanol. Moreover, intra-CA1 microinjection of L-NAME reversed the L-arginine-induced potentiation of the nicotine response. The results suggest the importance of NO system(s) in the CA1 regions of the dorsal hippocampus for improving the effect of nicotine on the ethanol-induced amnesia.
Menthol is used in pharmaceutical applications because of its desired cooling and analgesic properties. The neural mechanism by which topical application of menthol decreases heat pain is not fully understood. We investigated the effects of topical menthol application on lumbar dorsal horn wide dynamic range and nociceptive-specific neuronal responses to noxious heat and cooling of glabrous hindpaw cutaneous receptive fields. Menthol increased thresholds for responses to noxious heat in a concentration-dependent manner. Menthol had a biphasic effect on cold-evoked responses, reducing the threshold (to warmer temperatures) at a low (1%) concentration and increasing threshold and reducing response magnitude at high (10%, 40%) concentrations. Menthol had little effect on responses to innocuous or noxious mechanical stimuli, ruling out a local anesthetic action. Application of 40% menthol to the contralateral hindpaw tended to reduce responses to cooling and noxious heat, suggesting a weak heterosegmental inhibitory effect. These results indicate that menthol has an analgesic effect on heat sensitivity of nociceptive dorsal horn neurons, as well as biphasic effects on cold sensitivity, consistent with previous behavioral observations.
Little is known about the projections from the orofacial areas of the secondary somatosensory cortex (S2) to the pons and medulla including the second-order somatosensory neuron pools. To address this in rats, we first examined the distribution of S2 neurons projecting to the trigeminal principal nucleus (Vp) or oral subnucleus (Vo) of the trigeminal sensory nuclear complex (TSNC) after injections of a retrograde tracer, Fluorogold (FG), into five regions in the Vp/Vo which were responsive to stimulation of trigeminal nerves innervating the orofacial tissues. A large number of FG-labeled neurons were found with a somatotopic arrangement in the dorsal areas of S2 (orofacial S2 area). This somatotopic arrangement in the orofacial S2 area was shown to closely match that of the orofacial afferent inputs by recording cortical surface potentials evoked by stimulation of the trigeminal nerves. We then examined the morphology of descending projections from these electrophysiologically defined areas of the orofacial S2 to the pons and medulla after injections of an anterograde tracer, biotinylated dextranamine (BDA), into the areas. A large number of BDA-labeled axon fibers and terminals were seen only in some of the second-order somatosensory neuron pools, most notably in the contralateral TSNC, although the labeled terminals were not seen in certain rostrocaudal levels of the contralateral TSNC including the rostrocaudal middle level of the trigeminal interpolar subnucleus. The projections to the TSNC showed somatotopic arrangements in dorsoventral, superficial-deep and rostrocaudal directions. The somatotopic arrangements in the Vp/Vo closely matched those of the electrophysiologically defined central projection sites of the orofacial trigeminal afferents in the TSNC. The present results suggest that the orofacial S2 projects selectively to certain rostrocaudal levels of the contralateral TSNC, and the projections may allow the orofacial S2 to accurately modulate orofacial somatosensory transmission to higher brain centers including the orofacial S2 itself.
Biochemical investigations have demonstrated that nitric oxide synthase (NOS) is distributed widely in the olfactory system. However, little is known about the action of NO at the synaptic level on identified neurons in local circuits that process chemosensory signals. Here, using whole-cell recordings, the effect of NO on cholinergic synaptic input to olfactory projection neurons (PNs) is determined in the Drosophila antennal lobes (ALs), which has become an excellent model for studying early olfactory-processing mechanisms. We found that the NO donor SNP/SNAP or the NO precursor L-arginine significantly decreased the frequency of cholinergic spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) in PNs. Conversely, soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) inhibitor oxadiazolo-quinoxaline-one (ODQ) significantly increased the frequency of cholinergic sEPSCs in PNs. The subsequent application of 8-bromo-cGMP significantly attenuated the effects of ODQ, indicating the possible involvement of NO-cGMP signaling. To determine the role of NO in quantal release of acetylcholine (Ach) to PNs, cholinergic miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) were recorded. SNP significantly decreased the frequency of mEPSCs, but exhibited no effect on the amplitude or the decay time constant of mEPSCs in PNs. The effect of SNP on the frequency of mEPSCs could be eliminated by ODQ as well. Thus, these results suggest that elevated NO concentration decreased cholinergic synaptic input to PNs in a sGC-dependent manner. In this way, NO signaling is suited to fulfill a regulatory role to effectively fine-tune network activity in Drosophila ALs.
The generation of the most abundant neurons of the cerebellum, the granule cells, relies on a balance between clonal expansion and apoptosis during the first 10 days after birth in the external germinal layer (EGL). The amino acid glutamate controls such critical phases of cell development in other systems through specific receptors such as metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGlu(5)R). However, the function of mGlu(5)Rs on the proliferation and survival of granule cell precursors (GCPs) remains elusive. We found mGlu(5)R mRNA transcripts in EGL using RT-PCR and observed mGlu(5)R-mediated Ca(2+) responses in GCPs in acute slices as early as postnatal day (P) 2-3. Using in vivo injections of the selective non-competitive mGlu(5)R antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP) in P7-P9 mice, we found a 20% increase in the number of proliferative GCPs labeled at P7 with the S-phase marker bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), but no increase in cell proliferation examined 2h following a BrdU injection. Furthermore, similar treatments led to a significant 70% decrease in the number of apoptotic GCPs in the EGL as determined by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining. In contrast, in vivo treatment with the mGlu(5)R agonist (RS)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG) resulted in a 60% increase in the number of TUNEL-labeled GCPs compared to control. These findings identify a unique role for glutamate acting at mGlu(5)Rs as a functional switch regulating GCP survival in the EGL, thus controlling the total number of cerebellar granule cells produced.

Carotid artery stenosis appears to be an independent risk factor for cognitive impairment. But the mechanisms of cognitive impairments occurring in patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis are poorly understood. One important reason is the absence of a good carotid stenosis model. In the present study, after establishing different degrees of carotid stenosis models in aged rats successfully, we investigated their cognitive function. Wistar rat models with carotid artery stenosis were established by ligating the common carotid artery along with various gauges of needle and then removing the needle. The cognitive performance was assessed using Morris water maze (MWM) task. Cholinergic markers like acetylcholine (ACh) were evaluated in hippocampus. Neuronal damage was also studied through morphological changes. Severe carotid stenosis led to impairment in learning ability and memory retrieval, accompanied with a decrease in ACh level and morphological damage in hippocampus. Moderate carotid stenosis rats had a partial cognitive impairment, but there were no changes in ACh level and morphological damage in hippocampus. Meanwhile, mild carotid stenosis rats had no cognitive impairment compared to sham-operated rats. The results of this study suggest that different degrees of carotid stenosis induce different cognitive changes in aged rats.
It is well known that the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus (PO/AH), containing temperature-sensitive and -insensitive neurons plays an important role in precise thermoregulatory responses. Previous in vivo studies suggest that the arginine vasopressin (AVP) is an important endogenous mediator in thermoregulation, since AVP and V(1a) vasopressin receptor antagonist can induce hypothermia and hyperthermia, respectively. In the present study, intracellular electrophysiological activity was recorded from temperature-sensitive and -insensitive neurons in rat PO/AH tissue slices, using a whole-cell patch clamp. By monitoring neuron's changes of firing activity and thermosensitivity when perfused with AVP or V(1a) vasopressin receptor antagonist, we found that AVP increased the spontaneous firing rate in 65% of warm-sensitive neurons and decreased it in nearly 50% of cold-sensitive and temperature-insensitive neurons. These changes are due to the AVP enhancing the rise rate of depolarization prepotential in warm-sensitive neurons and reducing it in the other neurons. Moreover, AVP increased the thermosensitivity of warm-sensitive neurons while it decreased thermosensitivity of cold-sensitive and temperature-insensitive neurons. V(1a) vasopressin receptor participated in these responses. Since excited warm-sensitive neurons or inhibited cold-sensitive and temperature-insensitive neurons promote heat loss or suppress heat production and retention. These results that AVP excites warm-sensitive neurons and inhibits cold-sensitive and temperature-insensitive neurons suggest a probable mechanism of AVP-induced hypothermia.
A neuron's phase response curve (PRC) shows how inputs arriving at different times during the spike cycle differentially affect the timing of subsequent spikes. Using a full morphological model of a globus pallidus (GP) neuron, we previously demonstrated that dendritic conductances shape the PRC in a spike frequency-dependent manner, suggesting different functional roles of perisomatic and distal dendritic synapses in the control of patterned network activity. In the present study we extend this analysis to examine the impact of physiologically realistic high conductance states on somatic and dendritic PRCs and the time course of spike train perturbations. First, we found that average somatic and dendritic PRCs preserved their shapes and spike frequency dependence when the model was driven by spatially-distributed, stochastic conductance inputs rather than tonic somatic current. However, responses to inputs during specific synaptic backgrounds often deviated substantially from the average PRC. Therefore, we analyzed the interactions of PRC stimuli with transient fluctuations in the synaptic background on a trial-by-trial basis. We found that the variability in responses to PRC stimuli and the incidence of stimulus-evoked added or skipped spikes were stimulus-phase-dependent and reflected the profile of the average PRC, suggesting commonality in the underlying mechanisms. Clear differences in the relation between the phase of input and variability of spike response between dendritic and somatic inputs indicate that these regions generally represent distinct dynamical subsystems of synaptic integration with respect to influencing the stability of spike time attractors generated by the overall synaptic conductance.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a debilitating clinical condition, characterized by a complex of neurological dysfunctions. It has been shown in rats that the acute administration of recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) following a contusive SCI improves the recovery of hindlimb motor function, as measured with the locomotor BBB (Basso, Beattie, Bresnahan) scale. This scale evaluates overall locomotor activity, without testing whether the rhEPO-induced motor recovery is due to a parallel recovery of sensory and/or motor pathways. Aim of the present study was to utilize an electrophysiological test to evaluate, in a rat model of contusive SCI, the transmission of both ascending and descending pathways across the damaged cord at 2, 5, 7, 11, and 30 days after lesion, in animals treated with rhEPO (n=25) vs saline solution (n=25). Motor potentials evoked by epicortical stimulation were recorded in the spinal cord, and sensory-evoked potentials evoked by spinal stimulation were recorded at the cortical level. In the same animals BBB score and immunocytochemical evaluation of the spinal segments caudal to the lesion were performed. In rhEPO-treated animals results show a better general improvement both in sensory and motor transmission through spared spinal pathways, supposedly via the reticulo-spinal system, with respect to saline controls. This improvement is most prominent at relatively early times. Overall these features show a parallel time course to the changes observed in BBB score, suggesting that EPO-mediated spared spinal cord pathways might contribute to the improvement in transmission which, in turn, might be responsible for the recovery of locomotor function.
Gene expression is a necessary step for memory re-stabilization after retrieval, a process known as reconsolidation. Histone acetylation is a fundamental mechanism involved in epigenetic regulation of gene expression and has been implicated in memory consolidation. However, few studies are available in reconsolidation, all of them in vertebrate models. Additionally, the recruitment of histone acetylation as a function of different memory strengths has not been systematically analyzed before. Here we studied the role of histone acetylation in reconsolidation using a well-characterized memory model in invertebrate, the context-signal memory in the crab Chasmagnathus. Firstly, we found an increase in histone H3 acetylation 1h after memory reactivation returning to basal levels at 3 h. Strikingly, this increment was only detected during reconsolidation of a long-term memory induced by a strong training of 30 trials, but not for a short-term memory formed by a weak training of five trials or for a long-term memory induced by a standard training of 15 trials. Furthermore, we showed that a weak memory which was enhanced during consolidation by histone deacetylases inhibition, also recruited histone H3 acetylation in reconsolidation as the strong training does. Accordingly, we found the first evidence that the administration of a histone acetyl transferase inhibitor during memory reconsolidation impairs long-term memory re-stabilization. Finally, we found that strong training memory, at variance with the standard training memory, was resistant to extinction, indicating that such strong training induced in fact a stronger memory. In conclusion, the results presented here support that the participation of histone acetylation during reconsolidation is an evolutionary conserved feature and constitutes a specific molecular characteristic of strong memories.
The clustered protocadherin genes encode a diverse collection of neuronal cell surface receptors. These genes have been proposed to play roles in axon targeting, synaptic development and neuronal survival, although their specific cellular roles remain poorly defined. In zebrafish there are four clustered protocadherin genes, two pcdh clusters and two pcdh clusters, that give rise to over 100 distinct proteins, each with a distinct ectodomain (EC). The zebrafish is an excellent model in which to address the function of protocadherins during neural development, as the embryos are transparent, develop rapidly, and are amenable to experimental manipulation. As a first step to investigating the clustered protocadherins during zebrafish development, we have generated antibodies against the common cytodomains of zebrafish Pcdh. We compare the distribution of Pcdh with Pcdh and find a similar pan-neuronal pattern, with strong labeling of neurons within all major regions of the central nervous system. Pcdh and Pcdh are particularly enriched in the developing visual system, with strong labeling found in the synaptic layers of the retina, as well as the optic tectum. Consistent with studies in mouse, we find that Pcdh and Pcdh are present in a complex, as they can be co-immunoprecipitated from zebrafish larval extracts. This interaction is direct and occurs through the ECs of these proteins. Using standard bead aggregation assays, we find no evidence for intrinsic adhesive ability by either Pcdh or Pcdh, suggesting that they do not function as cell adhesion molecules.
Exploration of the molecular dynamics underlying regeneration in the central nervous system of regeneration-competent organisms has received little attention thus far. By combining a cerebellar lesion paradigm with differential proteome analysis at a post-lesion survival time of 30 min, we screened for protein candidates involved in the early stages of regeneration in the cerebellum of such an organism, the teleost fish Apteronotus leptorhynchus. Out of 769 protein spots, the intensity of 26 spots was significantly increased by a factor of at least 1.5 in the lesioned hemisphere, relative to the intact hemisphere. The intensity of 9 protein spots was significantly reduced by a factor of at least 1.5. The proteins associated with 15 of the spots were identified by peptide mass fingerprinting and/or tandem mass spectrometry, resulting in the identification of a total of 11 proteins. Proteins whose abundance was significantly increased include: erythrocyte membrane protein 4.1N, fibrinogen gamma polypeptide, fructose-biphosphate aldolase C, alpha-internexin neuronal intermediate filament protein, major histocompatibility complex class I heavy chain, 26S proteasome non-ATPase regulatory subunit 8, tubulin alpha-1C chain, and ubiquitin-specific protease 5. Proteins with significantly decreased levels of abundance include: brain glycogen phosphorylase, neuron-specific calcium-binding protein hippocalcin, and spectrin alpha 2. We hypothesize that these proteins are involved in energy metabolism, blood clotting, electron transfer in oxidative reactions, cytoskeleton degradation, apoptotic cell death, synaptic plasticity, axonal regeneration, and promotion of mitotic activity.
Diabetic retinopathy and diabetic encephalopathy are two common complications of diabetes mellitus. The impairment of glutamatergic neurotransmission in the retina and hippocampus has been suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of these diabetic complications. In this study, we investigated the effect of elevated glucose concentration and diabetes on the protein content and surface expression of AMPA receptor subunits in the rat retina and hippocampus. We have used two models, cultured retinal and hippocampal cells exposed to elevated glucose concentration and an animal model of streptozotocin-induced type 1 diabetes. The immunoreactivity of GluA1, GluA2 and GluA4 was evaluated by Western blot and immunocytochemistry. The levels of these subunits at the plasma membrane were evaluated by biotinylation and purification of plasma membrane-associated proteins. Elevated glucose concentration increased the total levels of GluA2 subunit of AMPA receptors in retinal neural cells, but not of the subunits GluA1 or GluA4. However, at the plasma membrane, elevated glucose concentration induced an increase of all AMPA receptor subunits. In cultured hippocampal neurons, elevated glucose concentration did not induce significant alterations in the levels of AMPA receptor subunits. In the retinas of diabetic rats there were no persistent changes in the levels of AMPA receptor subunits comparing to aged-matched control retinas. Also, no consistent changes were detected in the levels of GluA1, GluA2 or GluA4 in the hippocampus of diabetic rats. We demonstrate that elevated glucose concentration induces early changes in AMPA receptor subunits, mainly in GluA2 subunit, in retinal neural cells. Conversely, hippocampal neurons seem to remain unaffected by elevated glucose concentration, concerning the expression of AMPA receptors, suggesting that AMPA receptors are more susceptible to the stress caused by elevated glucose concentration in retinal cells than in hippocampal neurons.
The medial amygdaloid nucleus (MeA) is a part of the limbic system and is involved in cardiovascular modulation. We previously reported that microinjection of noradrenaline (NA) into the MeA of unanesthetized rats caused pressor and bradycardiac responses, which were mediated by acute vasopressin release into the systemic circulation. In the present study, we tested the possible involvement of magnocellular neurons of the paraventricular (PVN) and/or supraoptic (SON) of the hypothalamus that synthesize vasopressin in the cardiovascular pathway activated by the microinjection of NA into the MeA. Pressor and bradycardiac responses to the microinjection of NA (27 nmol/100 nL) into the MeA were blocked by pretreatment of either the PVN or the SON with cobalt chloride (CoCl(2), 1 mM/100 nL), thus indicating that both hypothalamic nuclei mediate the cardiovascular responses evoked by microinjection of NA into the MeA. Our results suggest that the pressor and bradycardiac response caused by the microinjection of NA into the MeA is mediated by magnocellular neurons in both the PVN and SON.

One of the benefits musicians derive from their training is an increased ability to detect small differences between sounds. Here, we asked whether musicians' experience discriminating sounds on the basis of small acoustic differences confers advantages in the subcortical differentiation of closely related speech sounds (e.g., /ba/ and /ga/), distinguishable only by their harmonic spectra (i.e., their second formant trajectories). Although the second formant is particularly important for distinguishing stop consonants, auditory brainstem neurons do not phase-lock to its frequency range (above 1000 Hz). Instead, brainstem neurons convert this high-frequency content into neural response timing differences. As such, speech tokens with higher formant frequencies elicit earlier brainstem responses than those with lower formant frequencies. By measuring the degree to which subcortical response timing differs to the speech syllables /ba/, /da/, and /ga/ in adult musicians and nonmusicians, we reveal that musicians demonstrate enhanced subcortical discrimination of closely related speech sounds. Furthermore, the extent of subcortical consonant discrimination correlates with speech-in-noise perception. Taken together, these findings show a musician enhancement for the neural processing of speech and reveal a biological mechanism contributing to musicians' enhanced speech perception in noise.
The functional role of serotonergic 5-HT(1A) receptors in the modulation of visceral pain is controversial. The objective of this study was to systematically examine the mechanism and site of action of a selective 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin (DPAT) on visceral pain. In the behavioral model of visceral pain, systemic injection (5-250 g/kg) of DPAT produced a significant increase in the viscero-motor response (VMR) to colorectal distension (CRD) and this effect was blocked by the selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY-100135 (5 mg/kg, s.c.). Similarly, intrathecal (i.t.) injection (5 mol) of DPAT into the lumbo-sacral (L6-S1) spinal cord produced a significant increase in VMR. The administration of N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist AP5 (50 g/kg) prior to DPAT injection completely blocked the pronociceptive effect of DPAT. Similarly, DPAT failed to increase VMR in rats chronically treated with NR1 subunit-targeted antisense oligonucleotide (ON), whereas the drug increased VMR in rats treated with mismatched-ON. Chronic i.t. injection of allylglycine (AG), a -amino decarboxylase (GAD) enzyme inhibitor, produced significant increase in VMRs, suggesting that the inhibition of GABA synthesis produces pronociception. In AG-treated rats, i.t. injection of DPAT failed to further increase in VMR, suggesting that the DPAT action is linked to GABA release. Similarly, WAY-100135 failed to attenuate VMR in AG-treated rats, suggesting that unlike DPAT, AG action is not via the activation of 5-HT(1A) receptors. In electrophysiology experiments, DPAT (50 g/kg) significantly increased the responses of spinal neurons to CRD, but did not influence the mechanotransduction property of CRD-sensitive pelvic nerve afferent fibers. The effect of DPAT on spinal neurons remained unaffected when tested in spinal-transected (C1-C2) rats. These results indicate that the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist DPAT produces pronociceptive effects, primarily via the activation of presynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors in GABAergic neuron to restrict GABA release and thereby disinhibits the excitatory glutamatergic neurons in the spinal cord.
Step initiation is associated with anticipatory postural adjustments (APAs) that vary according to the speed of the first step. When step initiation is elicited by a &quot;go&quot; signal (i.e. in a reaction time task), the presentation of an unpredictable, intense, acoustic startling stimulus (engaging a subcortical mechanism) simultaneously with or just before the imperative &quot;go&quot; signal is able to trigger early-phase APAs. The aim of the present study was to better understand the mechanisms underlying APAs during step initiation. We hypothesized that the early release of APAs by low-intensity, non-startling stimuli delivered long before an imperative &quot;go&quot; signal indicates the involvement of several different mechanisms in triggering APAs (and not just acoustic reflexes triggering brainstem structures). Fifteen healthy subjects were asked to respond to an imperative visual &quot;go&quot; signal by initiating a step with their right leg. A brief, binaural 40, 80 or 115 dB auditory stimulus was given 1.4 s before the &quot;go&quot; signal. Participants were instructed not to respond to the auditory stimulus. The centre of pressure trajectory and the electromyographic activity of the orbicularis oculi, sternocleidomastoid and tibialis anterior muscles were recorded. All three intensities of the auditory stimulus were able to evoke low-amplitude, short APAs without subsequent step execution. The louder the stimulus, the more frequent the elicitation. Depending on the intensity of the stimulus, APAs prior to step initiation can be triggered without the evocation of a startle response or an acoustic blink. Greater reaction times for these APAs were observed for non-startling stimuli. This observation suggested the involvement of pathways that did not involve the brainstem as a &quot;prime mover&quot;.
Seizure susceptibility to neurological insults, including chemical convulsants, is age-dependent and most likely reflective of overall differences in brain excitability. The molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying development-dependent seizure susceptibility remain to be fully understood. Because the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway regulates neurite outgrowth, synaptic plasticity and cell survival, thereby influencing brain development, we tested if exposure of the immature brain to the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin changes seizure susceptibility to neurological insults. We found that inhibition of mTOR by rapamycin in immature rats (3-4 weeks old) increases the severity of seizures induced by pilocarpine, including lengthening the total seizure duration and reducing the latency to the onset of seizures. Rapamycin also reduces the minimal dose of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) necessary to induce clonic seizures. However, in mature rats, rapamycin does not significantly change the seizure sensitivity to pilocarpine and PTZ. Likewise, kainate sensitivity was not significantly affected by rapamycin treatment in either mature or immature rats. Additionally, rapamycin treatment down-regulates the expression of potassium-chloride cotransporter 2 (KCC2) in the thalamus and to a lesser degree in the hippocampus. Pharmacological inhibition of thalamic mTOR or KCC2 increases susceptibility to pilocarpine-induced seizure in immature rats. Thus, our study suggests a role for the mTOR pathway in age-dependent seizure susceptibility.
Receptor interacting protein (RIP)-1 kinase activity mediates a novel pathway that signals for regulated necrosis, a form of cell death prominent in traumatic and ischemic brain injury. Recently, we showed that an allosteric inhibitor of RIP-1 kinase activity, necrostatin-1 (Nec-1), provides neuroprotection in the forebrain following neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI). Because Nec-1 also prevents early oxidative injury, we hypothesized that mechanisms involved in this neuroprotection may involve preservation of mitochondrial function and prevention of secondary energy failure. Therefore, our objective was to determine if Nec-1 treatment following neonatal HI attenuates oxidative stress and mitochondrial injury. Postnatal day (p) 7 mice exposed to HI were injected intracerebroventricularly with 0.1 L (80 mol) of Nec-1 or vehicle. Nec-1 treatment prevented nitric oxide (NO), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and 3-nitrotyrosine increase, and attenuated glutathione oxidation that was found in vehicle-treated mice at 3h following HI. Similarly, Nec-1 following HI prevented: (i) up-regulation of hypoxia inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1) and BCL2/adenovirus E1B 19 kDa protein-interacting protein 3 (BNIP3) expression, (ii) decline in mitochondrial complex-I activity, (iii) decrease in ATP levels, and (iv) mitochondrial structural pathology in astrocytes and in neurons. Up-regulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) following HI was also prevented by Nec-1 treatment. No differences by gender were observed. We conclude that Nec-1 immediately after HI, is strongly mitoprotective and prevents secondary energy failure by blocking early NO accumulation, glutathione oxidation and attenuating mitochondrial dysfunction.
The central medial nucleus (CM) of thalamus is a prominent cell group of the rostral intralaminar complex of the thalamus. No previous report in the rat has comprehensively described the projections of CM. Using the anterograde anatomical tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, we examined the efferent projections of CM, comparing projections from rostral (CMr) and caudal (CMc) regions of CM. We showed that the central medial nucleus distributes substantially to several cortical sites and to a limited number of subcortical structures. The primary CM targets were anterior and posterior regions of cortex, the claustrum, the caudate-putamen, the nucleus accumbens (ACC), the olfactory tubercle, and the amygdala. CMr and CMc distribute to several of the same structures but essentially to different parts of these structures. By comparison, CMr more strongly targets limbic structures, CMc more heavily sensorimotor structures. Main CMr projection sites were the medial agranular, anterior cingulate, prelimbic, dorsolateral orbital and dorsal agranular insular cortices, the dorsal striatum, the ACC, and the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala. Main CMc cortical projection sites were the ventrolateral, lateral and dorsolateral orbital cortices, dorsal, ventral and posterior agranular insular cortices, visceral cortex, primary somatosensory and motor cortices, and perirhinal cortex. Main CMc subcortical projection sites were the dorsal striatum and the lateral, central, anterior cortical, and basomedial nuclei of amygdala. The largely complementary output of CMr and CMc to diverse areas of cortex and to regions of the striatum and amygdala suggest a combined CM influence over a widespread area of the anterior cortex and throughout the dorsal and ventral striatum and the amygdala. CM projections to limbic and sensorimotor structures of the rostral forebrain suggest that CM may serve to integrate affective, cognitive and sensorimotor functions for goal-directed behavior.

The dopamine transporter removes the neurotransmitter from the synapse, regulating dopamine availability. The transporter can be internalized and its function is blocked by cocaine and other ligands. Melittin inhibits dopamine transporter function and causes internalization of the recombinant transporter in stably transfected HEK-293 cells, but the specific pathways for internalization and disposition of the transporter are unknown. Here we report that melittin treatment increased both transporter internalization and colocalization with clathrin, effects that were blocked by pretreatment with cocaine. Density gradient centrifugation revealed that melittin treatment caused the dopamine transporter to associate with a density fraction containing the early endosome marker Rab 5A. Confocal microscopy revealed that melittin treatment also increased transporter colocalization with Rab 5A and decreased colocalization with the late endosome marker Rab 7 and the recycling endosome marker Rab 11. Following 60 min of melittin treatment, the transporter was trafficked back to the membrane. By comparison, phorbol ester treatment increased transporter colocalization with early endosome antigen 1 and Rab 7 in a time-dependent manner. Cocaine treatment alone does not affect transporter trafficking in these cells. Results indicate multiple dopamine transporter internalization and recycling pathways that depend on transporter-ligand interactions and post-translational modifications.
SPARC (secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine) is a matricellular protein highly expressed during development, reorganization and tissue repair. In the central nervous system, glial cells express SPARC during development and in neurogenic regions of the adult brain. Astrocytes control the glutamate receptor levels in the developing hippocampus through SPARC secretion. To further characterize the role of SPARC in the brain, we analyzed the hippocampal-dependent adult behavior of SPARC KO mice. We found that SPARC KO mice show increased levels of anxiety-related behaviors and reduced levels of depression-related behaviors. The antidepressant-like phenotype could be rescued by adenoviral vector-mediated expression of SPARC in the adult hippocampus, but anxiety-related behavior persisted in these mice. To identify the cellular mechanisms underlying these behavioral alterations, we analyzed neuronal activity and neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus (DG). SPARC KO mice have increased levels of neuronal activity, evidenced as more neurons that express c-Fos after a footshock. SPARC also affects cell proliferation in the subgranular zone of the DG, although it does not affect maturation and survival of new neurons. SPARC expression in the adult DG does not revert the proliferation phenotype in KO mice, but our results suggest a role of SPARC in limiting the survival of new neurons in the DG. This work suggests that SPARC could affect anxiety-related behavior by modulating neuronal activity, and that depression-related behavior is dependent upon the adult expression of SPARC, which affects adult brain function by mechanisms that need to be elucidated.
To efficiently drive many behaviors, sensory systems have to integrate the activity of large neuronal populations within a limited time window. These populations need to rapidly achieve a robust representation of the input image, probably through canonical computations such as divisive normalization. However, little is known about the dynamics of the corticocortical interactions implementing these rapid and robust computations. Here, we measured the real-time activity of a large neuronal population in V1 using voltage-sensitive dye imaging in behaving monkeys. We found that contrast gain of the population increases over time with a time constant of ~30 ms and propagates laterally over the cortical surface. This dynamic is well accounted for by a divisive normalization achieved through a recurrent network that transiently increases in size after response onset with a slow swelling speed of 0.007-0.014 m/s, suggesting a polysynaptic intracortical origin. In the presence of a surround, this normalization pool is gradually balanced by lateral inputs propagating from distant cortical locations. This results in a centripetal propagation of surround suppression at a speed of 0.1-0.3 m/s, congruent with horizontal intracortical axons speed. We propose that a simple generalized normalization scheme can account for both the dynamical contrast response function through recurrent polysynaptic intracortical loops and for the surround suppression through long-range monosynaptic horizontal spread. Our results demonstrate that V1 achieves a rapid and robust context-dependent input normalization through a timely push-pull between local and lateral networks. We suggest that divisive normalization, a fundamental canonical computation, should be considered as a dynamic process.
Although the transcription factors required for the generation of oligodendrocytes and CNS myelination during development have been relatively well established, it is not known whether continued expression of the same factors is required for the maintenance of myelin in the adult. Here, we use an inducible conditional knock-out strategy to investigate whether continued oligodendrocyte expression of the recently identified transcription factor myelin gene regulatory factor (MRF) is required to maintain the integrity of myelin in the adult CNS. Genetic ablation of MRF in mature oligodendrocytes within the adult CNS resulted in a delayed but severe CNS demyelination, with clinical symptoms beginning at 5 weeks and peaking at 8 weeks after ablation of MRF. This demyelination was accompanied by microglial/macrophage infiltration and axonal damage. Transcripts for myelin genes, such as proteolipid protein, MAG, MBP, and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, were rapidly downregulated after ablation of MRF, indicating an ongoing requirement for MRF in the expression of these genes. Subsequently, a proportion of the recombined oligodendrocytes undergo apoptosis over a period of weeks. Surviving oligodendrocytes gradually lose the expression of mature markers such as CC1 antigen and their association with myelin, without reexpressing oligodendrocyte progenitor markers or reentering the cell cycle. These results demonstrate that ongoing expression of MRF within the adult CNS is critical to maintain mature oligodendrocyte identity and the integrity of CNS myelin.
Cells can release the free amino acid taurine through volume-regulated anion channels (VRACs), and it has been hypothesized that taurine released from glial cells is capable of inhibiting action potential (AP) firing by activating neuronal glycine receptors (GlyRs) (Hussy et al., 1997). Although an inhibitory GlyR tone is widely observed in the brain, it remains unknown whether this specifically reflects gliotransmission because most neurons also express VRACs and other endogenous molecules can activate GlyRs. We found that VRACs are absent in neurons of the rat supraoptic nucleus (SON), suggesting that glial cells are the exclusive source of taurine in this nucleus. Application of strychnine to rat hypothalamic explants caused a depolarization of SON neurons associated with a decrease of chloride conductance and could excite these cells in the absence of fast synaptic transmission. This inhibitory GlyR tone was eliminated by pharmacological blockade of VRACs, by cellular taurine depletion, by metabolic inactivation of glia with fluorocitrate, and after retraction of astrocytic processes that intercalate neuronal somata and dendrites. Finally, GlyR tone varied inversely with extracellular fluid tonicity to mediate the osmotic control of AP firing by SON neurons. These findings establish taurine as a physiological gliotransmitter and show that gliotransmission is a spatially constrained process that can be modulated by the morphological rearrangement of astrocytes.
Comparative studies have established that a number of structures within the rostromedial basal forebrain are critical for affiliative behaviors and social attachment. Lesion and neuroimaging studies concur with the importance of these regions for attachment and the experience of affiliation in humans as well. Yet it remains obscure whether the neural bases of affiliative experiences can be differentiated from the emotional valence with which they are inextricably associated at the experiential level. Here we show, using functional MRI, that kinship-related social scenarios evocative of affiliative emotion induce septal-preoptic-anterior hypothalamic activity that cannot be explained by positive or negative emotional valence alone. Our findings suggest that a phylogenetically conserved ensemble of basal forebrain structures, especially the septohypothalamic area, may play a key role in enabling human affiliative emotion. Our finding of a neural signature of human affiliative experience bears direct implications for the neurobiological mechanisms underpinning impaired affiliative experiences and behaviors in neuropsychiatric conditions.
Rabbit eyeblink conditioning is a well characterized model of associative learning. To identify specific neurons that are part of the eyeblink premotor pathway, a retrograde transsynaptic tracer (pseudorabies virus) was injected into the orbicularis oculi muscle. Four time points (3, 4, 4.5, and 5 d) were selected to identify sequential segments of the pathway and a map of labeled structures was generated. At 3 d, labeled first-order motor neurons were found in dorsolateral facial nucleus ipsilaterally. At 4 d, second-order premotor neurons were found in reticular nuclei, and sensory trigeminal, auditory, vestibular, and motor structures, including contralateral red nucleus. At 4.5 d, labeled third-order premotor neurons were found in the pons, midbrain, and cerebellum, including dorsolateral anterior interpositus nucleus and rostral fastigial nucleus. At 5 d, labeling revealed higher-order premotor structures. Labeled fourth-order Purkinje cells were found in ipsilateral cerebellar cortex in cerebellar lobule HVI and in lobule I. The former has been implicated in eyeblink conditioning and the latter in vestibular control. Labeled neurons in anterior interpositus were studied, using neurotransmitter immunoreactivity to classify individual cell types and delineate their interconnectivity. Labeled third-order premotor neurons were immunoreactive for glutamate and corresponded to large excitatory projection neurons. Labeled fourth-order premotor interneurons were immunoreactive for GABA (30%), glycine (18%), or both GABA and glycine (52%) and form a functional network within anterior interpositus involved in modulation of motor commands. These results identify a complete eyeblink premotor pathway, deep cerebellar interconnectivity, and specific neurons responsible for the generation of eyeblink responses.
Understanding rhythmic behavior at the developmental and genetic levels has important implications for neurobiology, medicine, evolution, and robotics. We studied rhythmic behavior--larval crawling--in the genetically and developmentally tractable organism, Drosophila melanogaster. We used narrow-diameter channels to constrain behavior to simple, rhythmic crawling. We quantified crawling at the organism, segment, and muscle levels. We showed that Drosophila larval crawling is made up of a series of periodic strides. Each stride consists of two phases. First, while most abdominal segments remain planted on the substrate, the head, tail, and gut translocate; this &quot;visceral pistoning&quot; moves the center of mass. The movement of the center of mass is likely powered by muscle contractions in the head and tail. Second, the head and tail anchor while a body wall wave moves each abdominal segment in the direction of the crawl. These two phases can be observed occurring independently in embryonic stages before becoming coordinated at hatching. During forward crawls, abdominal body wall movements are powered by simultaneous contraction of dorsal and ventral muscle groups, which occur concurrently with contraction of lateral muscles of the adjacent posterior segment. During reverse crawls, abdominal body wall movements are powered by phase-shifted contractions of dorsal and ventral muscles; and ventral muscle contractions occur concurrently with contraction of lateral muscles in the adjacent anterior segment. This work lays a foundation for use of Drosophila larva as a model system for studying the genetics and development of rhythmic behavior.
Forming place-reward associations critically depends on the integrity of the hippocampal-ventral striatal system. The ventral striatum (VS) receives a strong hippocampal input conveying spatial-contextual information, but it is unclear how this structure integrates this information to invigorate reward-directed behavior. Neuronal ensembles in rat hippocampus (HC) and VS were simultaneously recorded during a conditioning task in which navigation depended on path integration. In contrast to HC, ventral striatal neurons showed low spatial selectivity, but rather coded behavioral task phases toward reaching goal sites. Outcome-predicting cues induced a remapping of firing patterns in the HC, consistent with its role in episodic memory. VS remapped in conjunction with the HC, indicating that remapping can take place in multiple brain regions engaged in the same task. Subsets of ventral striatal neurons showed a &quot;flip&quot; from high activity when cue lights were illuminated to low activity in intertrial intervals, or vice versa. The cues induced an increase in spatial information transmission and sparsity in both structures. These effects were paralleled by an enhanced temporal specificity of ensemble coding and a more accurate reconstruction of the animal's position from population firing patterns. Altogether, the results reveal strong differences in spatial processing between hippocampal area CA1 and VS, but indicate similarities in how discrete cues impact on this processing.
Peripheral nerve injury causes spontaneous and long-lasting pain, hyperalgesia, and allodynia. Excitatory amino acid receptor-dependent increases in descending facilitatory drive from the brainstem rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) contribute to injury-evoked hypersensitivity. Although increased excitability likely reflects changes in synaptic efficacy, the cellular mechanisms underlying injury-induced synaptic plasticity are poorly understood. Neuronal pentraxin 1 (NP1), a protein with exclusive CNS expression, is implicated in synaptogenesis and AMPA receptor recruitment to immature synapses. Its role in the adult brain and in descending pain facilitation is unknown. Here, we use the spared nerve injury (SNI) model in rodents to examine this issue. We show that SNI increases RVM NP1 expression and constitutive deletion or silencing NP1 in the RVM, before or after SNI, attenuates allodynia and hyperalgesia in rats. Selective rescue of RVM NP1 expression restores behavioral hypersensitivity of knock-out mice, demonstrating a key role of RVM NP1 in the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain.
Decreased basal glutamate levels are observed in the rat nucleus accumbens (NA) core following cocaine self-administration. This disruption of glutamate homeostasis arises from a reduction in the export of glutamate via system x(C)(-) and is accompanied by a decrease in expression of xCT, the catalytic subunit of system x(C)(-). A second hallmark of disrupted homeostasis is a decrease in expression and function of the major glutamate transporter, GLT-1. We have previously shown that chronic treatment with the antibiotic ceftriaxone restores xCT and GLT-1 expression following cocaine self-administration and attenuates both cue- and cocaine-primed reinstatement. Here we used a (3)H-glutamate uptake assay and microdialysis to test the hypothesis that ceftriaxone restores the function of both GLT-1 and xCT (glutamate reuptake and export, respectively) in the NA core following cocaine self-administration. We also used electrophysiology to investigate the ability of ceftriaxone to normalize measures of synaptic plasticity following cocaine. We found that 5 d of ceftriaxone treatment following cocaine self-administration restores basal glutamate levels in the accumbens core, likely through an upregulation of system x(C)(-) function. We also found that ceftriaxone restores glutamate reuptake and attenuates the increase in synaptically released glutamate that accompanies cocaine-primed reinstatement. Ceftriaxone also reversed the cocaine-induced synaptic potentiation in the accumbens core, evidenced by normalized spontaneous EPSC amplitude and frequency and evoked EPSC amplitude. These data indicate that ceftriaxone normalizes multiple aspects of glutamate homeostasis following cocaine self-administration and thus holds the potential to reduce relapse in human cocaine addicts.
Correlation structure in the activity of muscles across movements is often interpreted as evidence for low-level, hardwired constraints on upper-limb function. However, muscle synergies may also emerge from optimal strategies to achieve high-level task goals within a redundant control space. To distinguish these contrasting interpretations, we examined the structure of muscle variability during operation of a myoelectric interface in which task constraints were dissociated from natural limb biomechanics. We found that, with practice, human subjects learned to shape patterns of covariation between arbitrary pairs of hand and forearm muscles appropriately for elliptical targets whose orientation varied on a trial-by-trial basis. Thus, despite arriving at the same average location in the effector space, performance was improved by buffering variability into those dimensions that least impacted task success. Task modulation of beta-frequency intermuscular coherence indicated that differential recruitment of divergent corticospinal pathways contributed to positive correlations among muscles. However, this feedforward mechanism could not account for negative correlations observed in the presence of visual feedback. A second experiment revealed the development of fast, target-dependent visual responses consistent with &quot;minimum intervention&quot; control correcting predominantly task-relevant errors. Together, these mechanisms contribute to the dynamic emergence of task-specific muscle synergies appropriate for a wide range of abstract task goals.
Over 50% of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients experience cognitive deficits, and hippocampal-dependent memory impairment has been reported in &gt;30% of these patients. While postmortem pathology studies and in vivo magnetic resonance imaging demonstrate that the hippocampus is targeted in MS, the neuropathology underlying hippocampal dysfunction remains unknown. Furthermore, there are no treatments available to date to effectively prevent neurodegeneration and associated cognitive dysfunction in MS. We have recently demonstrated that the hippocampus is also targeted in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the most widely used animal model of MS. The objective of this study was to assess whether a candidate treatment (testosterone) could prevent hippocampal synaptic dysfunction and underlying pathology when administered in either a preventative or a therapeutic (postdisease induction) manner. Electrophysiological studies revealed impairments in basal excitatory synaptic transmission that involved both AMPA receptor-mediated changes in synaptic currents, and faster decay rates of NMDA receptor-mediated currents in mice with EAE. Neuropathology revealed atrophy of the pyramidal and dendritic layers of hippocampal CA1, decreased presynaptic (Synapsin-1) and postsynaptic (postsynaptic density 95; PSD-95) staining, diffuse demyelination, and microglial activation. Testosterone treatment administered either before or after disease induction restores excitatory synaptic transmission as well as presynaptic and postsynaptic protein levels within the hippocampus. Furthermore, cross-modality correlations demonstrate that fluctuations in EPSPs are significantly correlated to changes in postsynaptic protein levels and suggest that PSD-95 is a neuropathological substrate to impaired synaptic transmission in the hippocampus during EAE. This is the first report demonstrating that testosterone is a viable therapeutic treatment option that can restore both hippocampal function and disease-associated pathology that occur during autoimmune disease.
Weakly-electric fish are a well-established model system for neuroethological studies on communication and aggression. Sensory encoding of their electric communication signals, as well as behavioural responses to these signals, have been investigated in great detail under laboratory conditions. In the wave-type brown ghost knifefish, Apteronotus leptorhynchus, transient increases in the frequency of the generated electric field, called chirps, are particularly well-studied, since they can be readily evoked by stimulating a fish with artificial signals mimicking conspecifics. When two fish interact, both their quasi-sinusoidal electric fields (called electric organ discharge, EOD) superimpose, resulting in a beat, an amplitude modulation at the frequency difference between the two EODs. Although chirps themselves are highly stereotyped signals, the shape of the amplitude modulation resulting from a chirp superimposed on a beat background depends on a number of parameters, such as the beat frequency, modulation depth, and beat phase at which the chirp is emitted. Here we review the influence of these beat parameters on chirp encoding in the three primary stages of the electrosensory pathway: electroreceptor afferents, the hindbrain electrosensory lateral line lobe, and midbrain torus semicircularis. We then examine the role of these parameters, which represent specific features of various social contexts, on the behavioural responses of A. leptorhynchus. Some aspects of the behaviour may be explained by the coding properties of early sensory neurons to chirp stimuli. However, the complexity and diversity of behavioural responses to chirps in the context of different background parameters cannot be explained solely on the basis of the sensory responses and thus suggest that critical roles are played by higher processing stages.
The monoamine hypothesis of depression has dominated our understanding of both the pathophysiology of depression and the action of pharmacological treatments for the last decades, and it has led to the production of several generations of antidepressant agents. However, there are serious limitations to the current monoamine theory, and additional mechanisms, including hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis dysfunctions, as well as neurodegenerative and inflammatory alterations, are potentially associated with the pathogenesis of mood disorders. Moreover, new data have recently indicated that epigenetic mechanisms such as histone modifications and DNA methylation could affect diverse pathways leading to depression-like behaviours in animal models. In a transgenic mouse model of depression, in which a downregulation of glucocorticoid receptors (GR) causes a deficit in the HPA axis feedback control, besides alterations in monoamine neurotransmission and neuroplasticity, we found modifications in the expression of many proteins involved in epigenetic regulation, as well as clock genes, in the hippocampus and the frontal cortex, that might be central in the genesis of depressive-like behaviours.
Serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission is thought to underlie mental illnesses, such as bipolar disorder, depression, autism and schizophrenia. Independent studies have indicated that 5-HT or drugs acting on 5-HT neurotransmission regulate the serine/threonine kinase glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3). Furthermore, GSK3 inhibition rescues behavioural abnormalities in 5-HT-deficient mice with a loss-of-function mutation equivalent to the human variant (R441H) of tryptophan hydroxylase 2. In an effort to define neuroanatomical correlates of GSK3 activity in the regulation of behaviour, we generated CamKIIcre-floxGSK3 mice in which the gsk3b gene is postnatally inactivated in forebrain pyramidal neurons. Behavioural characterization showed that suppression of GSK3 in these brain areas has anxiolytic and pro-social effects. However, while a global reduction of GSK2 expression reduced responsiveness to amphetamine and increased resilience to social defeat, these behavioural effects were not found in CamKIIcre-floxGSK3 mice. These findings demonstrate a dissociation of behavioural effects related to GSK3 inhibition, with forebrain GSK3 being involved in the regulation of anxiety and sociability while social preference, resilience and responsiveness to psychostimulants would involve a function of this kinase in subcortical areas such as the hippocampus and striatum.
Aggression, which comprises multi-faceted traits ranging from negative emotionality to antisocial behaviour, is influenced by an interaction of biological, psychological and social variables. Failure in social adjustment, aggressiveness and violence represent the most detrimental long-term outcome of neurodevelopmental disorders. With the exception of brain-specific tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (Tph2), which generates serotonin (5-HT) in raphe neurons, the contribution of gene variation to aggression-related behaviour in genetically modified mouse models has been previously appraised (Lesch 2005 Novartis Found Symp. 268, 111-140; Lesch &amp; Merschdorf 2000 Behav. Sci. Law 18, 581-604). Genetic inactivation of Tph2 function in mice led to the identification of phenotypic changes, ranging from growth retardation and late-onset obesity, to enhanced conditioned fear response, increased aggression and depression-like behaviour. This spectrum of consequences, which are amplified by stress-related epigenetic interactions, are attributable to deficient brain 5-HT synthesis during development and adulthood. Human data relating altered TPH2 function to personality traits of negative emotionality and neurodevelopmental disorders characterized by deficits in cognitive control and emotion regulation are based on genetic association and are therefore not as robust as the experimental mouse results. Mouse models in conjunction with approaches focusing on TPH2 variants in humans provide unexpected views of 5-HT's role in brain development and in disorders related to negative emotionality, aggression and antisocial behaviour.
The serotonin-1A (5-HT(1A)) receptor is an abundant post-synaptic 5-HT receptor (heteroreceptor) implicated in regulation of mood, emotion and stress responses and is the major somatodendritic autoreceptor that negatively regulates 5-HT neuronal activity. Based on animal models, an integrated model for opposing roles of pre- and post-synaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors in anxiety and depression phenotypes and response to antidepressants is proposed. Understanding differential transcriptional regulation of pre- versus post-synaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors could provide better tools for their selective regulation. This review examines the transcription factors that regulate brain region-specific basal and stress-induced expression of the 5-HT(1A) receptor gene (Htr1a). A functional polymorphism, rs6295 in the Htr1a promoter region, blocks the function of specific repressors Hes1, Hes5 and Deaf1, resulting in increased 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor expression in animal models and humans. Its association with altered 5-HT(1A) expression, depression, anxiety and antidepressant response are related to genotype frequency in different populations, sample homogeneity, disease outcome measures and severity. Preliminary evidence from gene  environment studies suggests the potential for synergistic interaction of stress-mediated repression of 5-HT(1A) heteroreceptors, and rs6295-induced upregulation of 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors. Targeted therapeutics to inhibit 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor expression and induce 5-HT(1A) heteroreceptor expression may ameliorate treatment of anxiety and major depression.
The serotonin (5-HT) hypothesis of depression dates from the 1960s. It originally postulated that a deficit in brain serotonin, corrected by antidepressant drugs, was the origin of the illness. Nowadays, it is generally accepted that recurring mood disorders are brain diseases resulting from the combination, to various degrees, of genetic and other biological as well as environmental factors, evolving through the lifespan. All areas of neuroscience, from genes to behaviour, molecules to mind, and experimental to clinical, are actively engaged in attempts at elucidating the pathophysiology of depression and the mechanisms underlying the efficacy of antidepressant treatments. This first of two special issues of Philosophical Transactions B seeks to provide an overview of current developments in the field, with an emphasis on cellular and molecular mechanisms, and how their unravelling opens new perspectives for future research.

One of the key features of active perception is the ability to predict critical sensory events. Humans and animals can implicitly learn statistical regularities in the timing of events and use them to improve behavioral performance. Here, we used a signal detection approach to investigate whether such improvements in performance result from changes of perceptual sensitivity or rather from adjustments of a response criterion. In a regular sequence of briefly presented stimuli, human observers performed a noise-limited motion detection task by monitoring the stimulus stream for the appearance of a designated target direction. We manipulated target predictability through the hazard rate, which specifies the likelihood that a target is about to occur, given it has not occurred so far. Analyses of response accuracy revealed that improvements in performance could be accounted for by adjustments of the response criterion; a growing hazard rate was paralleled by an increasing tendency to report the presence of a target. In contrast, the hazard rate did not affect perceptual sensitivity. Consistent with previous research, we also found that reaction time decreases as the hazard rate grows. A simple rise-to-threshold model could well describe this decrease and attribute predictability effects to threshold adjustments rather than changes in information supply. We conclude that, even under conditions of full attention and constant perceptual sensitivity, behavioral performance can be optimized by dynamically adjusting the response criterion to meet ongoing changes in the likelihood of a target.





Ca(2+) in neurons is vital to processes such as neurotransmission, neurotoxicity, synaptic development, and gene expression. Disruption of Ca(2+) homeostasis occurs in brain aging and in neurodegenerative disorders. Membrane transporters, among them the calmodulin (CaM)-activated plasma membrane Ca(2+) ATPases (PMCAs) that extrude Ca(2+) from the cell, play a key role in neuronal Ca(2+) homeostasis. Using X-exome sequencing we have identified a missense mutation (G1107D) in the CaM-binding domain of isoform 3 of the PMCAs in a family with X-linked congenital cerebellar ataxia. PMCA3 is highly expressed in the cerebellum, particularly in the presynaptic terminals of parallel fibers-Purkinje neurons. To study the effects of the mutation on Ca(2+) extrusion by the pump, model cells (HeLa) were cotransfected with expression plasmids encoding its mutant or wild-type (wt) variants and with the Ca(2+)-sensing probe aequorin. The mutation reduced the ability of the PMCA3 pump to control the cellular homeostasis of Ca(2+). It significantly slowed the return to baseline of the Ca(2+) transient induced by an inositol-trisphosphate (InsP(3))-linked plasma membrane agonist. It also compromised the ability of the pump to oppose the influx of Ca(2+) through the plasma membrane capacitative channels.



Simple synthesis of modafinil derivatives and their biological activity are described. The key synthetic strategies involve substitution and coupling reactions. We determined the anti-inflammatory effects of modafinil derivatives in cultured BV2 cells by measuring the inhibition of nitrite production and expression of iNOS and COX-2 after LPS stimulation. It was found that for sulfide analogues introduction of aliphatic groups on the amide part (compounds 11ad) resulted in lower anti-inflammatory activity compared with cyclic or aromatic moieties (compounds 11ek). However, for the sulfoxide analogues, introduction of aliphatic moieties (compounds 12ad) showed higher anti-inflammatory activity than cyclic or aromatic fragments (compounds 12ek) in BV-2 microglia cells.

Wernicke's area was, for a long time, considered a non-removable area and patients affected by low-grade gliomas (LGGs) or high-grade gliomas (HGGs) in this region were considered inoperable. Several studies have demonstrated a large functional reshaping of language networks in patients affected by gliomas or acute stroke involving Wernicke's territories, and the complete resection of this region invaded by LGG has recently been reported. We report our experience in the removal of Wernicke's territories invaded by gliomas. Four patients underwent awake surgery, with neuropsychological and neurophysiological monitoring and direct cortico-subcortical bipolar stimulation, for resection of LGG (one case) and HGGs (three cases) invading Wernicke's territories. Resection rates were evaluated by means of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) perfusion for LGG and HGGs, respectively. HGGs were totally resected and LGG was partially resected (67%), according to functional limits. No patients reported neurological deficit. The patient affected by LGG underwent postoperative chemotherapy. Two of the patients harbouring HGGs died 21 and 23 months after surgery and postoperative adjuvant treatment, respectively. The third one is still alive and progression-free 21 months after surgery. Awake surgery is a reliable and effective technique for resection of gliomas invading Wernicke's territories without postoperative permanent deficit. LGGs in this region can safely be removed, according to the functional subcortical boundaries, allowing postoperative adjuvant treatment, functional reshaping and multi-step surgery. HGGs, instead, can be completely removed without deficits and sometimes beyond the contrast enhancement area, allowing the best possible oncological prognosis for the patients.






Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease of motor neurons leading to death from respiratory failure within about 3 years of symptom onset. A family history of ALS is obtained in about 5 % but the distinction between familial and apparently sporadic ALS is artificial and genetic factors play a role in all types. For several years, only one gene was known to have a role in ALS pathogenesis, SOD1. In the last few years there has been a rapid advance in our genetic knowledge of the causes of ALS, and the relationship of the genetic subtypes with pathological subtypes and clinical phenotype. Mutations in the gene for TDP-43 protein, TARDBP, highlight this, with pathology mimicking closely that found in other types of ALS, and a phenotypic spectrum that includes frontotemporal dementia. Mutations in the FUS gene, closely related to TDP-43, lead to a similar clinical phenotype but distinct pathology, so that the three pathological groups represented by SOD1, TARDBP, and FUS are distinct. In this review, we explore the genetic architecture of ALS, highlight some of the genes implicated in pathogenesis, and describe their phenotypic range and overlap with other diseases.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is clinically, pathologically and genetically heterogeneous. Three major proteins are implicated in its pathogenesis. About half of cases are characterized by depositions of the microtubule associated protein, tau (FTLD-tau). In most of the remaining cases, deposits of the transactive response (TAR) DNA-binding protein with Mw of 43 kDa, known as TDP-43 (FTLD-TDP), are seen. Lastly, about 5-10 % of cases are characterized by abnormal accumulations of a third protein, fused in sarcoma (FTLD-FUS). Depending on the protein concerned, the signature accumulations can take the form of inclusion bodies (neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions and neuronal intranuclear inclusions) or dystrophic neurites, in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and subcortex. In some instances, glial cells are also affected by inclusion body formation. In motor neurone disease (MND), TDP-43 or FUS inclusions can present within motor neurons of the brain stem and spinal cord. This present paper attempts to critically examine the role of such proteins in the pathogenesis of FTLD and MND as to whether they might exert a direct pathogenetic effect (gain of function), or simply act as relatively innocent witnesses to a more fundamental loss of function effect. We conclude that although there is strong evidence for both gain and loss of function effects in respect of each of the proteins concerned, in reality, it is likely that each is a single face of either side of the coin, and that both will play separate, though complementary, roles in driving the damage which ultimately leads to the downfall of neurons and clinical expression of disease.
There has been tremendous progress toward understanding the genetic basis of Parkinson's disease and related movement disorders. We summarize the genetic, clinical and pathological findings of autosomal dominant disease linked to mutations in SNCA, LRRK2, ATXN2, ATXN3, MAPT, GCH1, DCTN1 and VPS35. We then discuss the identification of mutations in PARK2, PARK7, PINK1, ATP13A2, FBXO7, PANK2 and PLA2G6 genes. In particular we discuss the clinical and pathological characterization of these forms of disease, where neuropathology has been important in the likely coalescence of pathways highly relevant to typical PD. In addition to the identification of the causes of monogenic forms of PD, significant progress has been made in defining genetic risk loci for PD; we discuss these here, including both risk variants at LRRK2 and GBA, in addition to discussing the results of recent genome-wide association studies and their implications for PD. Finally, we discuss the likely path of genetic discovery in PD over the coming period and the implications of these findings from a clinical and etiological perspective.
Social isolation (SI) is increasingly recognized as a risk factor for stroke. Individuals with lack of social support systems have an increased incidence of stroke, poorer recovery, and greater functional decline after injury compared to individuals with social support. Attesting to the importance of social factors in stroke outcome is that these same effects can be reproducibly demonstrated in animals; social interaction improves behavioral deficits and reduces damage after experimental stroke, whereas SI enhances injury. The mechanism by which SI exacerbates injury is unclear. We investigated the role of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-B) signaling in male mice that were pair housed (PH) with an ovariectomized female prior to random assignment into continued PH or SI for 7 days prior to middle cerebral artery occlusion. The effects of SI on infarct volume and functional recovery were assessed at 72 h post-stroke. Nuclear NF-B levels and activity were assessed by Western blot and transcriptional assays. SI significantly exacerbated infarct size in both male and female mice compared to PH mice. SI mice had delayed functional recovery compared to PH mice. An elevation of systemic IL-6 levels, increased nuclear NF-B transcriptional activity, and enhanced nuclear translocation of NF-B was seen in SI stroke animals. Interference with NF-B signaling using either a pharmacological inhibitor or genetically engineered NF-B p50 knockout mice abolished the detrimental effects of SI on both infarct size and functional recovery. This suggests that NF-B mediates the detrimental effects of SI.


Ghrelin (GHR) is an orexigenic gut peptide that interacts with brain ghrelin receptors (GHR-Rs) to promote food intake. Recent research suggests that GHR acts as a modulator of motivated behavior, suggesting a direct influence of GHR on brain reinforcement circuits. In the present studies, we investigated the role of GHR and GHR-Rs in brain reinforcement function. Pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging was used to spatially resolve the functional activation produced by systemic administration of an orexigenic GHR dose. The imaging data revealed a focal activation of a network of subcortical structures that comprise brain reinforcement circuits-ventral tegmental area, lateral hypothalamus and nucleus accumbens. We next analyzed whether brain reinforcement circuits require functional GHR-Rs. To this purpose, wild-type (WT) or mutant rats sustaining N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-induced knockout of GHR-Rs (GHR-R null rats) were implanted with stimulating electrodes aimed at the lateral hypothalamus, shaped to respond for intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) and then tested using a rate-frequency procedure to examine ICSS response patterns. WT rats were readily shaped using stimulation intensities of 75 A, whereas GHR-R null rats required 300 A for ICSS shaping. No differences in rate-frequency curves were noted for WT rats at 75 A and GHR-R null rats at 300 A. When current intensity was lowered to 100 A, GHR-R null rats did not respond for ICSS. Taken collectively, these data suggest that systemic GHR can activate mesolimbic dopaminergic areas, and highlight a facilitative role of GHR-Rs on the activity of brain reinforcement systems.
Extracellular glycine modulates accumbal dopamine levels as well as ethanol-induced dopamine overflow. Glycine availability is also crucial for regulating alcohol consumption and the glycine transporter 1 (GlyT-1) inhibitor Org25935 robustly decreases alcohol intake in rats. To explore whether the alcohol-intake reducing effect of Org25935 is substance bound, we examined the effect of a different selective GlyT-1 inhibitor, Org24598, on ethanol consumption in rats and compared the effect with that of acamprosate, a drug currently in clinical use. We studied the effects of daily Org24598 and acamprosate injections on male Wistar rats with ~60% ethanol preference in a limited access two bottle free-choice model for 12 days, followed by alcohol deprivation for 14 days before a second test period of 10 days. Finally, rats underwent in vivo microdialysis where dopamine, glycine, taurine and -alanine in n. accumbens were measured. Org24598 profoundly reduced ethanol intake and the effect remained throughout both treatment periods. Acamprosate promptly reduced ethanol intake, but on the third day tolerance developed to this effect and acamprosate failed to influence alcohol consumption during the second test period. Neither Org24598 nor acamprosate reduced water intake. Following the drinking study, the Org24598 group displayed higher basal accumbal dopamine levels compared with acamprosate and vehicle groups. Both Org24598 and acamprosate reduced the ethanol-induced dopamine response in n. accumbens. The study demonstrates a robust anti-alcohol intake effect of the GlyT-1 inhibitor Org24598, supporting the new concept that GlyT-1 inhibition reduces ethanol consumption. GlyT-1 inhibition may represent a new treatment principle for alcoholism that is superior to acamprosate.

Given that humans originated in Africa, it is likely that many seminal psychological observations and interventions originate in the continent. Relatively little attention has been paid, however, to more recent African contributions to the scientific fields of psychiatry and clinical psychology. This article notes that a number of major contributions to the understanding of brain-mind disorders have emerged from South Africa in particular. It briefly covers seminal contributions in evolutionary theory, psychotherapy, and neuroscience, as well as conceptual and practical contributions to reconciliation.





Recent studies have identified synaptic proteins that undergo synapse-to-nucleus translocation in response to neuronal activity that modulate protein synthesis. One such translational regulatory protein of the postsynaptic density (PSD) is AIDA-1d, which binds to PSD-95 via its C-terminus. Activation of synaptic NMDA receptors induces the cleavage of AIDA-1d, and the N-terminus is then shuttled to nuclear Cajal bodies where it plays a role in regulating global protein synthesis. Chronic ethanol exposure has been shown to increase the synaptic clustering of NMDA receptors and PSD-95. Here, we tested the hypothesis that AIDA-1d regulates chronic ethanol-induced increases in synaptic NMDA receptor expression. As reported, we found that AIDA-1 was highly enriched in dendritic spines and co-localized with PSD-95. Acute NMDA treatment increased AIDA-1 colocalization with p80 coilin, a marker of Cajal bodies. Chronic treatment (4 day) of cultures with ethanol (25-100 mM) or with the NMDA receptor antagonist AP-V (50 M) enhanced the clustering of AIDA-1 at synaptic sites. However, chronic ethanol treatment (50 mM) in the presence of the NMDA receptor agonist NMDA (2.5 M) prevented this increase. Surprisingly, PSD-95 did not seem to play a role in the synaptic distribution of AIDA-1 as this distribution was not affected by declustering PSD-95 from synapses in response to inhibition of palmitoylation. We found that lentiviral knockdown of AIDA-1d did not affect protein expression levels of NMDA receptor subunits GluN1, GluN1 C2', or GluN2B. The results of this study demonstrate that synaptic AIDA-1 expression is enhanced by chronic ethanol exposure that can be prevented by concurrent stimulation of NMDA receptors. In addition, we found that the association of AIDA-1 with PSD-95 is not required for its localization to the PSD. Moreover, we found that AIDA-1 does not regulate protein expression levels or alternative splicing of the GluN1 subunit of NMDA receptors.
Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders are often associated with structural and functional hippocampal abnormalities, leading to long-lasting learning and memory deficits. The mechanisms underlying these abnormalities are not fully understood. Here, we investigated whether ethanol exposure during the 3rd trimester-equivalent period alters spontaneous network activity that is involved in neuronal circuit development in the CA3 hippocampal region. This activity is driven by GABA(A) receptors, which can have excitatory actions in developing neurons as a consequence of greater expression of the Cl(-) importer, NKCC1, with respect to expression of the Cl(-) exporter, KCC2, resulting in high [Cl(-)](i). Rat pups were exposed to ethanol vapor from postnatal day (P) 2-16 (4 h/day). Weight gain was significantly reduced in pups exposed to ethanol compared to control at P15 and 16. Brain slices were prepared immediately after the end of the 4-h exposure on P4-16 and experiments were also performed under ethanol-free conditions at the end of the exposure paradigm (P17-22). Ethanol exposure did not significantly affect expression of KCC2 or NKCC1, nor did it affect network activity in the CA3 hippocampal region. Ethanol exposure significantly decreased the frequency (at P9-11) and increased the amplitude (at P5-8 and P17-21) of GABA(A) receptor-mediated miniature postsynaptic currents. These data suggest that repeated in vivo exposure to ethanol during the 3rd trimester-equivalent period alters GABAergic transmission in the CA3 hippocampal region, an effect that could lead to abnormal circuit maturation and perhaps contribute to the pathophysiology of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.




Activation of proinflammatory cytokines is associated with depressed mood, feelings of fatigue, and changes in cognitive function. This study examined the relationships between cognitive performance and circulating cellular markers of inflammation, interleukin-6 (IL-6) and C-reactive protein (CRP), in moderately depressed and comparison healthy older adults. We conducted a cross-sectional analysis of 87 volunteers (45 nondepressed and 42 depressed) in which participants completed the Structured Clinical Diagnostic Interview and were evaluated by a geriatric psychiatrist for dementia, depression, stroke risk, and neurologic disorders. Volunteers also completed an electrocardiogram, standard battery of laboratory tests, and neuropsychological examination that assessed memory functions of Encoding and Recall, Executive Function, and Attention/Processing. Mid-morning IL-6 and CRP levels were assessed. The data analysis showed that Encoding and Recall were inversely associated with IL-6 across diagnostic groups after controlling for chronological age, Mini-Mental State Examination, body mass index, literacy level, depression severity, and sex. CRP was not associated with cognition. Depression status was associated with recall independent of IL-6 levels. In conclusion, IL-6 serum levels among elderly individuals is a significant correlate of memory performance. Women, in particular, appear sensitive to IL-6 fluctuations across diagnostic groups.



In this case report, we describe the changes in adaptive behaviors and participation of 1 child with autism during a 10-wk program of intensive occupational therapy using a sensory integrative approach (OT-SI) following a manualized protocol. This case is part of a larger study examining the efficacy of the OT-SI approach. We found improvement in sensory processing, as measured by the Sensory Integration and Praxis Tests, as well as enhanced participation in home, school, and family activities, as indicated on parent-rated goal attainment scales.


One of the counterarguments against empirical research in psychoanalysis is that research negatively influences the treatment situation. In this paper, the impact of a neurobiological study on psychoanalytically oriented treatments is presented from three different perspectives: patients' views, a study group of participating psychoanalysts and a clinical case example. Twenty chronically depressed patients, 20 healthy controls and 16 psychoanalysts participated in the project on research. Results show a clear influence of the neurobiological study on the course of treatments. Patients consistently reported that study participation had a positive impact on their treatment experiences. However, study participation was conflictual for the psychoanalysts and forced them to carefully reflect on their unconscious and conscious involvement to establish a psychoanalytic stance independent from empirical research.
In the past two decades, a new form of scholarship has appeared in which researchers present an overview of previously conducted research syntheses on the same topic. In these efforts, research syntheses are the principal units of evidence. Overviews of reviews introduce unique problems that require unique solutions. This article describes what methods overviewers have developed or have adopted from other forms of scholarship. These methods concern how to (a) define the broader problem space of an overview, (b) conduct literature searches that specifically look for research syntheses, (c) address the overlap in evidence in related reviews, (d) evaluate the quality of both primary research and research syntheses, (e) integrate the outcomes of research syntheses, especially when they produce discordant results, (f) conduct a second-order meta-analysis, and (g) present findings. The limitations of overviews are also discussed, especially with regard to the age of the included evidence.
One of the most recognised and studied family of peptide hormones is the insulin superfamily. Within this family is the relaxin subfamily which comprises seven members: relaxin-1, -2 and -3 and insulin-like peptides 3, 4, 5 and 6. Besides exhibiting sequence similarities, each member exists as an active A-B heterodimer linked by three disulfide bonds. This mini-review is divided into three broad themes: an overview of all insulin superfamily members (including structural similarities); roles of each superfamily member and finally, a focus on the pleiotropic peptide hormone, human relaxin-2. In addition to promoting vasodilatory effects leading to evaluation in Phase III clinical trials for the treatment of acute heart failure, relaxin has recently been shown to be highly expressed by cancer cells, aiding in their proliferation, invasiveness and metastasis. These contrary effects of relaxin are discussed together with current efforts in the development of relaxin antagonists that may possess future therapeutic potential for the treatment of certain cancers.
Our objective was to investigate TDP-43 plasma levels in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). TDP-43 has been identified as a major component of protein inclusions in the brain of patients with ALS; mutations in the corresponding gene (TARDBP) have also been identified. Although increased TDP-43 levels have been reported in the cerebrospinal fluid, plasma levels have not yet been assessed in patients with ALS. TDP-43 levels were quantified by sandwich ELISA in plasma of 219 patients and 100 controls. In addition, we sequenced exon 6 of TARDBP, and performed longitudinal TDP-43 plasma measurements in a subset of patients. Results showed that TDP-43 plasma levels were significantly increased in patients with ALS (p=0.023) and we found a positive correlation with age in patients and controls. Longitudinal measurements of TDP-43 plasma levels showed an increase in only one patient, with stable levels in five others. Three TARDBP variations were identified in the ALS group (1.7%), but the association with TDP-43 plasma levels was ambiguous. In conclusion, our data indicate that TDP-43 plasma levels may have potential as a marker for ALS. A genotype-phenotype relationship could not, however, be established in this cohort.
Phenotypic variation in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is common, and one atypical form is the flail arm variant (FAV). Some classic ALS patients carry TARDBP mutations, and so we sought to establish whether TARDBP mutations are also present in the FAV of ALS. Mutation analysis of TARDBP, the gene encoding TDP-43, was performed in cohorts of classic and FAV ALS patients. An analysis of mutation effects was performed in patient fibroblasts. Results showed that a novel heterozygous in-frame insertion/deletion (indel), c.1158_1159delAT; c.1158_1159insCACCAACC, was identified in a highly conserved region encoding the glycine-rich area of TDP-43 in a patient with FAV. This indel was confirmed in the proband's mother, an obligate carrier, and was absent from 480 ethnically-matched control individuals. Transcription of the mutant allele was confirmed. Under induced stress, indel-mutant fibroblasts showed a loss of normal nuclear TDP-43 immunoreactivity and formation of cytoplasmic inclusions of TDP-43, consistent with features seen in affected neurons. In conclusion, TARDBP missense mutations have previously been reported in classic ALS and frontotemporal lobar degeneration. The identification of a TARDBP indel mutation in a patient with FAV extends the spectrum of mutations and further supports the role of TDP-43 in a range of neurodegenerative phenotypes.
Despite considerable involvement of the spinal cord in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), current biomarker research is primarily centred on brain imaging and CSF proteomics. In clinical practice, spinal cord imaging in ALS is performed primarily to rule out alternative conditions in the diagnostic phase of the disease. Quantitative spinal cord imaging has traditionally been regarded as challenging, as it requires high spatial resolution while minimizing partial volume effects, physiological motion and susceptibility distortions. In recent years however, as acquisition and post-processing methods have been perfected, a number of exciting and promising quantitative spinal imaging and electrophysiology techniques have been developed. We performed a systematic review of the trends, methodologies, limitations and conclusions of recent spinal cord studies in ALS to explore the diagnostic and prognostic potential of spinal markers. Novel corrective techniques for quantitative spinal cord imaging are systematically reviewed. Recent findings demonstrate that imaging techniques previously used in brain imaging, such as diffusion tensor, functional and metabolic imaging can now be successfully applied to the human spinal cord. Optimized electrophysiological approaches make the non-invasive assessment of corticospinal pathways possible, and multimodal spinal techniques are likely to increase the specificity and sensitivity of proposed spinal markers. In conclusion, spinal cord imaging is an emerging area of ALS biomarker research. Novel quantitative spinal modalities have already been successfully used in ALS animal models and have the potential for development into sensitive ALS biomarkers in humans.

Although the internationally recommended dosage of alteplase, a single-chain rt-PA, is 0.9 mg/kg, 0.6 mg/kg is the only approved dosage in Japan, and it is widely used there. Duteplase is a two-chain rt-PA, and based on findings of the duteplase trials in the early 1990s, the smaller dosage of 0.6 mg/kg of alteplase was tested in the Japan Alteplase Clinical Trial (J-ACT), which indicated that the efficacy/safety profile of this dose was comparable to the 0.9 mg/kg dosage used in other countries. The Japan Alteplase Clinical Trial II (J-ACT II) further demonstrated efficacy of 0.6 mg/kg alteplase with regard to vascular outcomes in patients with middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. Finally, the Japan post-Marketing Alteplase Registration Study (J-MARS) confirmed the efficacy/safety profile of 0.6 mg/kg alteplase in a clinical setting that was comparable to the dose of 0.9 mg/kg in the European counterpart, the Safe Implementation of Thrombolysis in Stroke-Monitoring Study (SITS-MOST). The dose of 0.6 mg/kg seems to be optimal, at least in far-east Asians, and might be extrapolated to other ethnic groups as well.
Baseline severity of stroke may be an important predictor of efficacy and safety outcomes in acute stroke intervention trials. This summary explores definitions of baseline variables and outcomes used to measure stroke severity, efficacy, and safety. In addition, the discussion here reviews select acute ischemic stroke intravenous thrombolytic studies, such as the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke rt-PA Stroke Study and European Cooperative Acute Stroke Studies, select neuroprotectant and endovascular clot retrieval device studies, and large cooperative databases, such as the Virtual International Stroke Trials Archive and Safe Implementation of Treatment in Stroke-International Stroke Thrombolysis Registry, to explore relationships between baseline stroke severity and other possible factors associated with efficacy and safety outcomes. The NIH Stroke Scale and modified Rankin scale will be featured as major stroke outcome measures, based on frequency of use and reliability, familiarity, adaptability, and comparability.



Over the last decade, diagnostic options and introduction of novel treatments have expanded the armamentarium in the management of malignant glioma. Combined chemoradiotherapy has become the standard of care in glioblastoma up to the age of 70 years, while treatment in elderly patients or with lower grade glioma is less well defined. Molecular markers define different disease subtypes and allow for adapted treatment selection. This review focuses on simple questions arising in the daily management of patients.
BACKGROUND: Recent advances in the application of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) in healthy populations have led to the exploration of the technique as an adjuvant method to traditional speech therapies in patients with post-stroke aphasia. AIMS: THE PURPOSE OF THE REVIEW IS: (i) to review the features of tDCS that make it an attractive tool for research and potential future use in clinical contexts; (ii) to describe recent studies exploring the facilitation of language performance using tDCS in post-stroke aphasia; (iii) to explore methodological considerations of tDCS that may be key to understanding tDCS in treatment of aphasia post stroke; and (iv) to highlight several caveats and outstanding questions that need to be addressed in future work. MAIN CONTRIBUTION: This review aims to highlight our current understanding of the methodological and theoretical issues surrounding the use of tDCS as an adjuvant tool in the treatment of language difficulties after stroke. CONCLUSIONS: Preliminary evidence shows that tDCS may be a useful tool to complement treatment of aphasia, particularly for speech production in chronic stroke patients. To build on this exciting work, further systematic research is needed to understand the mechanisms of tDCS-induced effects, its application to current models of aphasia recovery, and the complex interactions between different stimulation parameters and language rehabilitation techniques. The potential of tDCS is to optimise language rehabilitation techniques and promote long-term recovery of language. A stimulating future for aphasia rehabilitation!



In recent years, disturbances in cognitive function have been increasingly recognized as important symptomatic phenomena in neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's Disease (PD). Value-based decision making in particular is an important executive cognitive function that is not only impaired in patients with PD, but also shares neural substrates with PD in basal ganglia structures and the dopamine system. Interestingly, the endogenous cannabinoid system modulates dopamine function and subsequently value-based decision making. This review will provide an overview of the interdisciplinary research that has influenced our understanding of value-based decision making and the role of dopamine, particularly in the context of reinforcement learning theories, as well as recent animal and human studies that demonstrate the modulatory role of activation of cannabinoid receptors by exogenous agonists or their naturally occurring ligands. The implications of this research for the symptomatology of and potential treatments for PD are also discussed.
No reliable anatomical or functional alterations have been confirmed in psychiatric neuroimaging; however it can become reliable with translational impact on clinical practice when considering crucial methodological issues. We provide guidelines to authors, editors and reviewers in the implementation/evaluation of neuroimaging studies to bend neuroimaging to be more than basic neuroscience.
Classical behavioral tests in animal models of trigeminal neuropathic pain measure reflexive responses that are not necessarily measures of pain. To overcome the problem, we created a chronic constrictive nerve injury (CCI) rat model of pain by ligation of the infraorbital nerve (ION), and applied the orofacial operant test to assess behavioral responses to mechanical and cold stimulation in these rats. Animals were trained to voluntarily contact their facial region to a mechanical or a cold stimulation module in order to access sweetened milk as a positive reward. ION-CCI rats displayed aversive behaviors to innocuous mechanical stimuli, as indicated by a significant decrease in both contact time and the numbers of long contact events in comparison with sham group. For cold stimulation, ION-CCI rats displayed aversive behaviors to both innocuous (17 C) and noxious cold temperatures (12 C and 5 C), as indicated by a significant decrease in both contact time and the numbers of long contact events at the cooling temperatures. The decreases of the contact time and numbers in ION-CCI rats were partially abolished by morphine. Our orofacial operant test demonstrates mechanical allodynia, cold allodynia, and hyperalgesia in rats with chronic trigeminal nerve injury. The neuropathic pain in ION-CCI rats was partially alleviated by morphine. Thus, orofacial operant test provides a desirable behavioral assessment method for preclinical studies of chronic trigeminal neuropathic pain.
Tremulous jaw movements in rats can be induced by several conditions associated with parkinsonism and tremorogenesis, including dopamine depletion, dopamine antagonism, and cholinomimetic drugs. Previous research indicates that neostriatal mechanisms are involved in the generation of tremulous jaw movements, but the striatal output pathways involved in these movements remain uncertain. One important pathway for striatal output is the GABAergic striatopallidal system. The present studies were undertaken to determine if extracellular levels of GABA in globus pallidus are associated with the induction of tremulous jaw movements by either a dopamine D2 antagonist (haloperidol) or a cholinomimetic (the muscarinic agonist pilocarpine). The first experiment studied the effects of both acute and repeated (i.e. 8 days) administration of the D2 antagonist haloperidol. In the second experiment, the effect of acute administration of the muscarinic agonist pilocarpine on GABA levels in the globus pallidus was examined. In both experiments, behavioral observations of tremulous jaw movements were conducted in parallel with the collection of microdialysis samples. Acute and repeated haloperidol treatment induced tremulous jaw movements, and significantly elevated extracellular GABA in globus pallidus. Pooling across all treatment groups, there was a significant positive correlation between pallidal GABA levels and the number of tremulous jaw movements induced during the first three samples collected after injection. However, injection of 4.0mg/kg pilocarpine had no effect on pallidal GABA release, despite the robust induction of tremulous jaw movements. These results indicate that the tremulous jaw movements induced by dopamine D2 antagonism and those induced through muscarinic receptor stimulation may be generated via distinct mechanisms.
Behavioral inhibition is a temperamental trait that refers to slow approach to novel items, shyness towards new people, and fearfulness in new situations, and individuals may develop inhibited response styles by as early as 2 years of age. There are important methodological considerations in the assessment of early temperament, with parental report and observational measures providing both corroborative and unique data. The present study examined behavioral inhibition measured by parental report and observational measures in a genetically informative sample to delineate the agreement between the methods and the uniqueness of each method, and to estimate the magnitude of genetic and environmental influences on the common and unique variance. The biometric, psychometric, and rater bias models were conducted to study the covariance between measurement modalities. Overall, the results suggested a common phenotype was assessed by both parents and observers. The latent phenotype underlying parental and observational measures of behavioral inhibition was moderately to substantially heritable.
This paper provides a review of the effects of relaxin-3 and structurally related analogues on food intake and related behaviours, in relation to hypothalamic neural networks and chemical messengers known to control feeding, metabolism and body weight, including other neuropeptides and hormones. Soon after relaxin-3 was discovered, pharmacological studies identified the ability of the native peptide to stimulate feeding acutely in adult rats. Although interpretation of these data was confounded by ligand cross-reactivity at relaxin-family peptide (RXFP) receptors, studies with relaxin-3 analogues selective for the native relaxin-3 receptor, RXFP3, confirmed that acute and chronic activation of RXFP3 increased feeding and weight gain, and produced changes in plasma leptin and insulin. These studies also identified the hypothalamus as a locus of action. Studies are now required to identify RXFP3-positive neuron populations involved in the effects of relaxin-3/RXFP3 signalling on metabolic and neuroendocrine homeostasis, and to determine whether peptide-based, nonpeptide-based or gene-based RXFP3 treatments can alter food intake and body weight in animal models of obesity and eating disorders, as a reflection of the therapeutic potential of this newly identified transmitter system.
Patients with anorexia nervosa (AN) show extreme dieting weight loss, hyperactivity, depression/anxiety, self-control, and behavioral impulsivity. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) is involved in almost all the behavioral changes observed in AN patients. Both genetic and environmental factors contribute toward the pathogenesis of AN. It is a frequent disorder among adolescent girls and young women and starts as an attempt to lose weight to look beautiful and attractive. Failure to see the turning point when fasting becomes unreasonable leads to malnutrition and AN. Tryptophan, the precursor of serotonin and an essential amino acid, is only available in the diet. It is therefore likely that excessive diet restriction and malnutrition decrease brain serotonin stores because the precursor is less available to the rate-limiting enzyme of 5-HT biosynthesis, which normally exists unsaturated with its substrate. Evidence shows that diet restriction-induced exaggerated feedback control over 5-HT synthesis and the smaller availability of tryptophan decreases serotonin neurotransmission at postsynaptic sites, leading to hyperactivity, depression, and behavioral impulsivity. A compensatory upregulation of postsynaptic 5-HT-1A receptors and hypophagic serotonin receptors may be involved in anxiety and suppression of appetite. It is suggested that tryptophan supplementation may improve pharmacotherapy in AN.
State-trace analysis (Bamber, Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 19, 137-181, 1979) is a graphical analysis that can determine whether one or more than one latent variable mediates an apparent dissociation between the effects of two experimental manipulations. State-trace analysis makes only ordinal assumptions and so, is not confounded by range effects that plague alternative methods, especially when performance is measured on a bounded scale (such as accuracy). We describe and illustrate the application of a freely available GUI driven package, StateTrace, for the R language. StateTrace automates many aspects of a state-trace analysis of accuracy and other binary response data, including customizable graphics and the efficient management of computationally intensive Bayesian methods for quantifying evidence about the outcomes of a state-trace experiment, developed by Prince, Brown, and Heathcote (Psychological Methods, 17, 78-99, 2012).
Research in cognitive science has documented numerous phenomena that are approximated by linear relationships. In the domain of numerical cognition, the use of linear regression for estimating linear effects (e.g., distance and SNARC effects) became common following Fias, Brysbaert, Geypens, and d'Ydewalle's (1996) study on the SNARC effect. While their work has become the model for analyzing linear effects in the field, it requires statistical analysis of individual participants and does not provide measures of the proportions of variability accounted for (cf. Lorch &amp; Myers, 1990). In the present methodological note, using both the distance and SNARC effects as examples, we demonstrate how linear effects can be estimated in a simple way within the framework of repeated measures analysis of variance. This method allows for estimating effect sizes in terms of both slope and proportions of variability accounted for. Finally, we show that our method can easily be extended to estimate linear interaction effects, not just linear effects calculated as main effects.

The membrane tethering factor p115 has been shown to have important functions in ER to Golgi traffic and Golgi biogenesis. The multidomain structure of p115 allows for interactions with a diverse array of proteins that govern cargo movement at the ER-Golgi interface. Within its C-terminal region p115 contains four coiled-coil domains (CC1-CC4). Of the four coiled-coils, only CC1 has been shown to be required for p115 function, presumably by its ability to bind numerous SNARE proteins as well as the small GTPase Rab1. Recently, we showed that CC4 also interacts with SNARE proteins and that CC4 is required for p115 function in Golgi homeostasis and the trafficking of transmembrane but not soluble cargo. Here, we propose a novel model wherein p115 facilitates membrane tethering and fusion by simultaneously engaging its CC1 and CC4 domains with distinct SNARE proteins to promote formation of SNARE complexes.
Growth factors and their receptors are important for cellular migration as well as axonal guidance and myelination in the brain. They also play a key role in programmed cell death, and are implicated in a number of mental illnesses. Recently, we reported that healthy young adults who carry the T allele variant in the growth factor gene, NTRK1 (at location rs6336), had lower white matter integrity than non-carriers on diffusion images of the brain. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) revealed how this single nucleotide polymorphism affects white matter microstructure in human populations; DTI is also used to identify characteristic features of brain connectivity in typically developing children and in patients. Newly discovered links between neuroimaging measures and growth factors whose molecular neuroscience is well known offer an important step in understanding mechanisms that contribute to brain connectivity. Altered fiber connectivity may mediate the relationship between some genetic risk factors and a variety of mental illnesses.
Computational methods and experimental data are used to provide structural models for NaChBac, the homo-tetrameric voltage-gated sodium channel from the bacterium Bacillus halodurans, with a closed and partially open pore domain. Molecular dynamic (MD) simulations on membrane-bound homo-tetrameric NaChBac structures, each comprising six helical transmembrane segments (labeled S1 through S6), reveal that the shape of the lumen, which is defined by the bundle of four alpha-helical S6 segments, is modulated by hinge bending motions around the S6 glycine residues. Mutation of these glycine residues into proline and alanine affects, respectively, the structure and conformational flexibility of the S6 bundle. In the closed channel conformation, a cluster of stacked phenylalanine residues from the four S6 helices hinders diffusion of water molecules and Na(+) ions. Activation of the voltage sensor domains causes destabilization of the aforementioned cluster of phenylalanines, leading to a more open structure. The conformational change involving the phenylalanine cluster promotes a kink in S6, suggesting that channel gating likely results from the combined action of hinge-bending motions of the S6 bundle and concerted reorientation of the aromatic phenylalanine side-chains.
Lon, ClpXP and m-AAA are the three major ATP-dependent proteases in the mitochondrial matrix. All three are involved in general quality control by degrading damaged or abnormal proteins. In addition to this role, they are proposed to serve roles in mitochondrial DNA functions including packaging and stability, replication, transcription and translation. In particular, Lon has been implicated in mtDNA metabolism in yeast, fly and humans. Here, we review the role of Lon protease in mitochondrial DNA functions, and discuss a putative physiological role for mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) degradation by Lon protease. We also discuss the possible roles of m-AAA and ClpXP in mitochondrial DNA functions, and the putative candidate substrates for the three matrix proteases. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Mitochondrial Gene Expression.
The nematode C. elegans has attracted a great deal of interest from the neuroscience community due to the simplicity of its nervous system, which in the hermaphrodite is composed of just 302 neurons. C. elegans is known to engage in a number of sophisticated behaviours such as chemo- and thermotaxis. Experimental work has shown that these behaviours can be modified by experience and that C. elegans is capable of associative learning. In this paper, we focus on the chemotactic response of C. elegans to sodium chloride mediated by the ASE sensory neurons. We construct a biophysical model of the ASEL and ASER neurons that captures the time course of the ASE responses in response to up- and down-steps in NaCl concentration. We use this model to show that the time course of the ASE responses provide sufficient temporal resolution to successfully drive chemotaxis in C. elegans via steering, pirouettes and control of final turn angle. We show that these different locomotion strategies are individually capable of driving chemotaxis and that by working together they produce the best chemotactic response. We find that there is a separation into upward and downward drives mediated by the left and right ASE neurons. We show that the connectivity from ASEL and ASER must be of opposite polarity and that ASER, and the concomitant ability to sense when the worm is moving down the gradient, is more important for chemotaxis than ASEL, findings that are consistent with existing modelling studies in the literature. Finally, we examine associative learning in the network and show that experimental data can be explained by changes that occur at either the synaptic or sensory neuron level, the choice of which has distinct consequences for network function.
Oscillatory activity is ubiquitous in nervous systems, with solid evidence that synchronisation mechanisms underpin cognitive processes. Nevertheless, its informational content and relationship with behaviour are still to be fully understood. In addition, cognitive systems cannot be properly appreciated without taking into account brain-body- environment interactions. In this paper, we developed a model based on the Kuramoto Model of coupled phase oscillators to explore the role of neural synchronisation in the performance of a simulated robotic agent in two different minimally cognitive tasks. We show that there is a statistically significant difference in performance and evolvability depending on the synchronisation regime of the network. In both tasks, a combination of information flow and dynamical analyses show that networks with a definite, but not too strong, propensity for synchronisation are more able to reconfigure, to organise themselves functionally and to adapt to different behavioural conditions. The results highlight the asymmetry of information flow and its behavioural correspondence. Importantly, it also shows that neural synchronisation dynamics, when suitably flexible and reconfigurable, can generate minimally cognitive embodied behaviour.


Recent evidence confirms that emotion can trigger executive attentional control. Participants resolve conflict faster when encountering emotionally negative or positive stimuli. This effect is accompanied by an enlarged conflict negativity in event-related brain potentials (ERPs) and activation of the ventral anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) in fMRI. Here, we tested whether temperament (the trait effortful control) and subclinical factors (anxiety, depression) can influence the emotional modulation of executive attention. These factors correlated with conflict processing in six experiments that utilized different conflict tasks (flanker, Simon) and different types of emotional stimuli (visual, auditory). Participants high in effortful control and low in anxiety and depression responded faster to conflict processing in emotional stimuli, showed an enhanced ERP conflict negativity, and additional activation in the ventral ACC. The data show that temperamental effortful control, depression, and anxiety are related to the influence of emotion on executive attention and its underlying neural correlates.
The goal of this study was to investigate the function of the ventral striatum and brain regions involved in anxiety and learning during aversive contextual conditioning. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to assess the hemodynamic brain response of 118 healthy volunteers during a differential fear conditioning paradigm. Concurrently obtained skin conductance responses and self-reports indicated successful context conditioning. Increased hemodynamic responses in the ventral striatum during presentation of the conditioned visual stimulus that predicted the aversive event (CS+) compared to a second stimulus never paired with the aversive event (CS-) were observed in the late acquisition phase. Additionally, we found significant brain responses in the amygdala, hippocampus, insula and medial prefrontal cortex. Our data suggest the involvement of the ventral striatum during contextual fear conditioning, and underline its role in the processing of salient stimuli in general, not only during reward processing.
Patent Blue V (PBV), a dye used clinically for sentinel lymph node detection, was mixed with human serum albumin (HSA). After binding to HSA, the fluorescence quantum yield increased from 5  10(-4) to 1.7  10(-2), which was enough to allow fluorescence detection and imaging of its distribution. A detection threshold, evaluated in scattering test objects, lower than 2.5 nmol  L(-1) was obtained, using a single-probe setup with a 5-mW incident light power. The detection sensitivity using a fluorescence imaging device was in the mol  L(-1) range, with a noncooled CCD camera. Preclinical evaluation was performed on a rat model and permitted to observe inflamed nodes on all animals.

Dissection of discrete brain regions for molecular analysis is complicated by trade-offs between accuracy, flexibility, and costs. We developed a flexible and cost-effective method, in situ hybridization (ISH) guided freeze-matrix assisted punches (IFAP), for extracting nanogram quantities of DNA from slide-mounted sections as thin as 12 m. Using ISH to localize regions of interest, tissue is targeted by applying a small bead of M-1 embedding matrix onto cryosections, snap-freezing, and collecting the beads for nucleic acid purification. The method quantitatively recovers RNA and DNA usable for PCR and DNA methylation analysis.
Cell lines with the ability to differentiate into all types of somatic and germ cells represent a pluripotent developmental stage that transiently exists in vivo in the epiblast cells of the pre-implantation embryo. Given the lack of access to human neurons, together with the limited numbers and heterogeneity of neurons obtainable from rodent primary cultures, the directed differentiation of pluripotent cell lines into defined cells of the neural lineage has provided a novel versatile tool in neurobiology. Offering a potentially unlimited source of material, directed differentiation of pluripotent cell lines has been particularly well combined with high-throughput transcriptomic and epigenetic analyses. Here, we first overview the potential of different pluripotent lines to give rise to different types of neurons. Then, we discuss the emerging use of neuronal differentiation systems as a tool for unravelling mechanisms that regulate neuronal development and specification, modelling complex neurological diseases and understanding neuronal dysfunction. Beyond providing original insights in many aspects of neuronal biology, these tools have greatly facilitated the development of novel therapeutic interventions for neurological disorders.
There has been a remarkable growth of papers published about purinergic signalling via ATP since 1972. I am most grateful to the wonderful PhD students and postdoctoral fellows who have worked with me over the years to pursue the purinergic hypothesis despite early opposition and to the many outstanding scientists around the world who are currently extending the story. Recently, therapeutic approaches to pathological disorders include the development of selective P1 and P2 receptor subtype agonists and antagonists, as well as of inhibitors of extracellular ATP breakdown and of ATP transport enhancers and inhibitors. Medicinal chemists are starting to develop small molecule purinergic drugs that are orally bioavailable and stable in vivo.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder that is more prevalent in males than in females. A similar gender difference has been reported in some strains of transgenic mouse models of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis harbouring the G93A mutation in CuZn superoxide dismutase. Mitochondrial damage caused by pathological alterations in Ca(2+) accumulation is frequently involved in neurodegenerative diseases, including CuZn superoxide dismutase-related amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, but its association with gender is not firmly established. In this study, we examined the effects of genetic ablation of cyclophilin D on gender differences in mice expressing G93A mutant CuZn superoxide dismutase. Cyclophilin D is a mitochondrial protein that promotes mitochondrial damage from accumulated Ca(2+). As anticipated, we found that cyclophilin D ablation markedly increased Ca(2+) retention in brain mitochondria of both males and females. Surprisingly, cyclophilin D ablation completely abolished the phenotypic advantage of G93A females, with no effect on disease in males. We also found that the 17-oestradiol decreased Ca(2+) retention in brain mitochondria, and that cyclophilin D ablation abolished this effect. Furthermore, 17-oestradiol protected G93A cortical neurons and spinal cord motor neurons against glutamate toxicity, but the protection was lost in neurons lacking cyclophilin D. Taken together, these results identify a novel mechanism of oestrogen-mediated neuroprotection in CuZn superoxide dismutase-related amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, whereby Ca(2+) overload and mitochondrial damage are prevented in a cyclophilin D-dependent manner. Such a protective mechanism may contribute to the lower incidence and later onset of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and perhaps other chronic neurodegenerative diseases, in females.
Neuronal loss in Alzheimer's disease, a better correlate of cognitive impairment than amyloid deposition, is currently gauged by the degree of regional atrophy. However, functional markers, such as GABA(A) receptor density, a marker of neuronal integrity, could be more sensitive. In post-mortem hippocampus, GABA(A) messenger RNA expression is reduced even in mild cognitive impairment. We measured whole-brain GABA(A) binding potential in vivo using [(11)C]-flumazenil positron emission tomography and compared GABA(A) binding with metabolic and volumetric measurements. For this purpose, we studied 12 subjects, six patients with early Alzheimer's disease and six healthy controls, with [(11)C]-flumazenil and [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, as well as with high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging. Data were evaluated with both voxel-based parametric methods and volume of interest methods. We found that in early Alzheimer's disease, with voxel-based analysis, [(11)C]-flumazenil binding was decreased in infero-medial temporal cortex, retrosplenial cortex and posterior perisylvian regions. Inter-group differences reached corrected significance when using an arterial input function. Metabolism measured with positron emission tomography and volumetric measurements obtained with magnetic resonance imaging showed changes in regions affected in early Alzheimer's disease, but, unlike with [(11)C]-flumazenil binding and probably due to sample size, the voxel-based findings failed to reach corrected significance in any region of the brain. With volume of interest analysis, hippocampi and posterior cingulate gyrus showed decreased [(11)C]-flumazenil binding. In addition, [(11)C]-flumazenil hippocampal binding correlated with memory performance. Remarkably, [(11)C]-flumazenil binding was decreased precisely in the regions showing the greatest degree of neuronal loss in post-mortem studies of early Alzheimer's disease. From these data, we conclude that [(11)C]-flumazenil binding could be a useful marker of neuronal loss in early Alzheimer's disease.
Clinical trials in Parkinson's disease have shown that transplants of embryonic mesencephalic dopamine neurons form new functional connections within the host striatum, but the therapeutic benefits have been highly variable. One obstacle has been poor survival and integration of grafted dopamine neurons. Activation of Akt, a serine/threonine kinase that promotes cell survival and growth, increases the ability of neurons to survive after injury and to regenerate lost neuronal connections. Because the lipid phosphatase, phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) inhibits Akt, we generated a mouse with conditional knock-out of PTEN in dopamine neurons, leading to constitutive expression of Akt in these neurons. Ventral mesencephalic tissue from dopamine phosphatase and tensin homologue knock-out or control animals was then transplanted bilaterally into the dopamine depleted striata of MitoPark mice that express a parkinsonian phenotype because of severe respiratory chain dysfunction in dopamine neurons. After transplantation into MitoPark mice, PTEN-deficient dopamine neurons were less susceptible to cell death, and exhibited a more extensive pattern of fibre outgrowth compared to control grafts. Voltammetric measurements demonstrated that dopamine release and reuptake were significantly increased in the striata of animals receiving dopamine PTEN knock-out transplants. These animals also displayed enhanced spontaneous and drug-induced locomotor activity, relative to control transplanted MitoPark mice. Our results suggest that disinhibition of the Akt-signalling pathway may provide a valuable strategy to enhance survival, function and integration of grafted dopamine neurons within the host striatum and, more generally, to improve survival and integration of different forms of neural grafts.
Activation of the nuclear factor B/c-Rel can increase neuronal resilience to pathological noxae by regulating the expression of pro-survival manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD, now known as SOD2) and Bcl-xL genes. We show here that c-Rel-deficient (c-rel(-/-)) mice developed a Parkinson's disease-like neuropathology with ageing. At 18 months of age, c-rel(-/-) mice exhibited a significant loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, as assessed by tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactivity and Nissl staining. Nigral degeneration was accompanied by a significant loss of dopaminergic terminals and a significant reduction of dopamine and homovanillic acid levels in the striatum. Mice deficient of the c-Rel factor exhibited a marked immunoreactivity for fibrillary -synuclein in the substantia nigra pars compacta as well as increased expression of divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) and iron staining in both the substantia nigra pars compacta and striatum. Aged c-rel(-/-) mouse brain were characterized by increased microglial reactivity in the basal ganglia, but no astrocytic reaction. In addition, c-rel(-/-) mice showed age-dependent deficits in locomotor and total activity and various gait-related deficits during a catwalk analysis that were reminiscent of bradykinesia and muscle rigidity. Both locomotor and gait-related deficits recovered in c-rel(-/-) mice treated with l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine. These data suggest that c-Rel may act as a regulator of the substantia nigra pars compacta resilience to ageing and that aged c-rel(-/-) mice may be a suitable model of Parkinson's disease.
In motor neuron disease, the focus of therapy is to prevent or slow neuronal degeneration with neuroprotective pharmacological agents; early diagnosis and treatment are thus essential. Incorporation of needle electromyographic evidence of lower motor neuron degeneration into diagnostic criteria has undoubtedly advanced diagnosis, but even earlier diagnosis might be possible by including tests of subclinical upper motor neuron disease. We hypothesized that beta-band (15-30Hz) intermuscular coherence could be used as an electrophysiological marker of upper motor neuron integrity in such patients. We measured intermuscular coherence in eight patients who conformed to established diagnostic criteria for primary lateral sclerosis and six patients with progressive muscular atrophy, together with 16 age-matched controls. In the primary lateral sclerosis variant of motor neuron disease, there is selective destruction of motor cortical layer V pyramidal neurons and degeneration of the corticospinal tract, without involvement of anterior horn cells. In progressive muscular atrophy, there is selective degeneration of anterior horn cells but a normal corticospinal tract. All patients with primary lateral sclerosis had abnormal motor-evoked potentials as assessed using transcranial magnetic stimulation, whereas these were similar to controls in progressive muscular atrophy. Upper and lower limb intermuscular coherence was measured during a precision grip and an ankle dorsiflexion task, respectively. Significant beta-band coherence was observed in all control subjects and all patients with progressive muscular atrophy tested, but not in the patients with primary lateral sclerosis. We conclude that intermuscular coherence in the 15-30Hz range is dependent on an intact corticospinal tract but persists in the face of selective anterior horn cell destruction. Based on the distributions of coherence values measured from patients with primary lateral sclerosis and control subjects, we estimated the likelihood that a given measurement reflects corticospinal tract degeneration. Therefore, intermuscular coherence has potential as a quantitative test of subclinical upper motor neuron involvement in motor neuron disease.
There is a wide range of age at initial symptom onset in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis despite a mean age of 65 years in population-based studies. 'Young-onset' amyotrophic lateral sclerosis typically refers to patients younger than 45 years and accounts for about 10% of cases in contemporary series. A review of published cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis from 1850 to 1950 revealed a far higher proportion of cases with young onset (&gt;50%), with a steady decline to the contemporary figure. It is possible that this is not solely explained by increases in life expectancy. While there is still a rich variation in phenotypes among cases of young-onset amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, bulbar onset was found to be significantly under-represented in analysis of a large patient database, with implications for age-related vulnerabilities pertaining to focality of symptom onset. The timing of initiating pathological processes in relation to the emergence of symptoms is discussed, including the potential role of very early development and the interaction of epigenetic and environmental factors.
Orofacial pain conditions are often very debilitating to the patient and difficult to treat. While clinical interest is high, the proportion of studies performed in the orofacial region in laboratory animals is relatively low, compared with other body regions. This is partly due to difficulties in testing freely moving animals and therefore lack of reliable testing methods. Here we present a comprehensive review of the currently used rodent models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain adapted to the orofacial areas, taking into account the difficulties and drawbacks of the existing approaches. We examine the available testing methods and procedures used for assessing the behavioral responses in the face in both mice and rats and provide a summary of some pharmacological agents used in these paradigms to date. The use of these agents in animal models is also compared with outcomes observed in the clinic.
Prescription stimulants are often used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Drugs like methylphenidate (Ritalin, Concerta), dextroamphetamine (Dexedrine), and dextroamphetamine-amphetamine (Adderall) help people with ADHD feel more focused. However, misuse of stimulants by ADHD and nonaffected individuals has dramatically increased over recent years based on students' misconceptions or simple lack of knowledge of associated risks. In this review, we discuss recent advances in the use and increasing misuse of prescription stimulants among high school and college students and athletes. Given the widespread belief that stimulants enhance performance, there are in fact only a few studies reporting the cognitive enhancing effects of stimulants in ADHD and nonaffected individuals. Student athletes should be apprised of the very serious consequences that can emerge when stimulants are used to improve sports performance. Moreover, misuse of stimulants is associated with dangers including psychosis, myocardial infarction, cardiomyopathy, and even sudden death. As ADHD medications are prescribed for long-term treatment, there is a need for long-term safety studies and education on the health risks associated with misuse is imperative.
Attentional dysfunction is among the most consistent observations of autism spectrum disorders (ASD). However, the neural nature of this deficit in ASD is still unclear. In this study, we aimed to identify the neurobehavioral correlates of attentional dysfunction in ASD. We used the Attention Network Test-Revised and functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine alerting, orienting, and executive control functions, as well as the neural substrates underlying these attentional functions in unmedicated, high-functioning adults with ASD (n = 12) and matched healthy controls (HC, n = 12). Compared with HC, individuals with ASD showed increased error rates in alerting and executive control, accompanied by lower activity in the mid-frontal gyrus and the caudate nucleus for alerting, and by the absence of significant functional activation in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) for executive control. In addition, greater behavioral deficiency in executive control in ASD was correlated with less functional activation of the ACC. These findings of behavioral and neural abnormalities in alerting and executive control of attention in ASD may suggest core attentional deficits, which require further investigation.
Currently, complete recovery is unattainable for most individuals with spinal cord injury (SCI). Instead, recovery is typically accompanied by persistent sensory and motor deficits. Restoration of preinjury function will likely depend on improving plasticity and integration of these impaired systems. Eccentric muscle actions require precise integration of sensorimotor signals and are predominant during the yield (E2) phase of locomotion. Motor neuron activation and control during eccentric contractions is impaired across a number of central nervous system (CNS) disorders, but remains unexamined after SCI. Therefore, we characterized locomotor recovery after contusive SCI using hindlimb (HL) kinematics and electromyographic (EMG) recordings with specific consideration of eccentric phases of treadmill (TM) walking. Deficits in E2 and a caudal shift of locomotor subphases persisted throughout the 3-week recovery period. EMG records showed notable deficits in the semitendinosus (ST) during yield. Unlike other HL muscles, recruitment of ST changed with recovery. At 7 days, the typical dual-burst pattern of ST was lost and the second burst (ST2) was indistinct. By 21 days, the dual-burst pattern returned, but latencies remained impaired. We show that ST2 burst duration is highly predictive of open field Basso, Beattie, Bresnahan (BBB) scores. Moreover, we found that simple changes in locomotor specificity which enhance eccentric actions result in new motor patterns after SCI. Our findings identify a caudal shift in stepping kinematics, irregularities in E2, and aberrant ST2 bursting as markers of incomplete recovery. These residual impairments may provide opportunities for targeted rehabilitation.
A suggestive hypothesis proposed that the lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) may be identified as the site of emotion-memory integration, since it was shown to be sensitive to the encoding and retrieval of emotional content. In the present research we explored the role of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in memory retrieval of positive vs. negative emotional stimuli. This effect was analyzed by using an rTMS paradigm that induced a cortical activation of the left DLPFC. Subjects were required to perform a task consisting of two experimental phases: an encoding phase, where some lists composed by positive and negative emotional words were presented to the subjects; a retrieval phase, where the old stimuli and the new stimuli were presented for a recognition performance. The rTMS stimulation was provided during the retrieval phase over the left DLPFC. We found that the rTMS stimulation over this area affects the memory retrieval of positive emotional material, with higher memory efficiency (reduced RTs). This result suggested that left DLPFC activation promotes the memory retrieval of emotional information. Secondly, the valence model of emotional cue processing may explain decreasing of RTs, by pointing out the distinct role the left hemisphere has in positive emotional cue processing.
Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a noninvasive neuroimaging tool that can measure local hemodynamic changes in the brain. Over the past decade, the technical advantage offered by multichannel NIRS has provided various new findings on higher cerebral function of the human brain. These findings have improved our knowledge of cognitive neuroscience, neurology, psychiatric medicine, rehabilitation medicine, and pharmacology. The present review illustrates such new findings and introduces a general trend of studies with NIRS and its clinical applications. In particular, new findings on early brain development and the organization of connectivity associated with language acquisition in the first year of life have been highlighted. Finally, some issues and concerns mostly stemming from the technical limitations of NIRS have been pointed out and discussed in view of current progress, so that future NIRS studies are more fruitful and reliable.
Functional neuroimaging is one of the most progressing fields in neuroscience and clinical neurological practice. It has also been contributing to the diagnosis and treatment of epilepsy. Intracranial electroencephalography (iEEG) is the gold standard for the diagnostic localization of the epileptogenic zone in the surgical treatment of epilepsy. Currently, no other modalities, including novel functional neuroimaging modalities, are superior to iEEG in sensitivity and spatial resolution. However, iEEG is an invasive procedure and its clinical usefulness is dependent on appropriate coverage of the epileptogenic zone. In this review article, the author discusses the principles of decision making in surgical indication and procedures by presenting clinical cases and evaluating the significance of functional neuroimaging in these processes; the review focuses on magnetoencephalography, 2-deoxy-2-[18F] fluoro-D-glucose positron emission tomography, and single photon emission computed tomography. The characteristics, advantages, and disadvantages of each modality are summarized. In some cases, but not all, functional neuroimaging modalities help avoid invasive iEEG without worsening surgical outcome and aid in determining the coverage area of iEEG, thereby resulting in better outcome and less complication.
Language mapping with electrical stimulation in patients with lesions close to the language area aids surgery by identifying the language area in each individual. This method is quite important in a clinical setting, and is the most reliable for preventing persistent language deficits after resection. Furthermore, language mapping with electrical stimulation has revealed that the functional organization of the language area is more complex than previously suggested by functional MRI and other methods. The language-related sites where electrical stimulation induced abnormality during language tasks were spatially distinct and surprisingly varied amona patients. In addition, electrical stimulation revealed a mosaic of language function, in which sites even 5-10 mm apart were functionally distinct. Cortical sites specifically related to a language function e.g., repetition, were surrounded by sites related to another language function but not to repetition. These findings suggested that the &quot;language area&quot; is not spatially homogeneous over centimeters of the cortex, but consists of functional sub-regions of the cortex. Findings obtained using intraoperative electrical stimulation of the subcortical white matter have supported the dual language pathways-the dorsal and ventral pathways. Electrical stimulation of the arcuate fasciculus induced phonological paraphasia and that of the inferior occipitofrontal fasciculus induced semantic paraphasia. However, no language deficits were induced by stimulation of the inferior longitudinal fasciculus, thereby indicating the indirect role of this bundle in language function. Our current models of human language organization can be modified on the basis of language mapping with electrical stimulation.
A better understanding of seizure networks and the mechanisms underlying human higher cortical functions requires a detailed knowledge of neuronal connectivity. As it relates to higher cortical functions, such as language, in humans, studies performed in nonhuman primates are less relevant. By using subdural electrodes implanted for presurgical evaluation, we developed an in vivo electrical tract-tracing technique of cortico-cortical evoked potentials (CCEPs). Cortico-cortical connections could be traced by applying repetitive single-pulse electrical stimuli to a part of the cortices and recording evoked cortical potentials from adjacent and remote cortical regions by averaging electrocorticogram time-locked to stimulus onset. This technique has contributed to the understanding of human cortico-cortical networks involved in higher brain functions, such as language, praxis, and higher motor control. Establishing a CCEP connectivity map in the MNI standard space is also of academic importance, since a standardized CCEP connectivity map would provide a substantial reference for noninvasive network analyses. In addition to its importance in basic systems neuroscience, this method, in combination with conventional cortical mapping, could be used to clinically map functional brain systems by tracking cortico-cortical connections among functional cortical regions in individual patients. This approach may help identify the cortico-cortical network of a given function within the context of pathology and any resultant plasticity of brain systems. In relation to epileptogenicity, as CCEPs can be used as a measure of regional cortical excitability, stimulating the epileptic focus and recording CCEPs in adjacent areas could help evaluate cortical excitability at and around the focus.
