Overactivation of calcium-activated neutral protease (calpain) has been implicated in the pathophysiology of several degenerative conditions, including stroke, myocardial ischemia, neuromuscular degeneration, and cataract formation. Alpha-mercaptoacrylate derivatives (exemplified by PD150606), with potent and selective inhibitory actions against calpain, have been identified. PD150606 exhibits the following characteristics: (i) Ki values for mu- and m-calpains of 0.21 microM and 0.37 microM, respectively, (ii) high specificity for calpains relative to other proteases, (iii) uncompetitive inhibition with respect to substrate, and (iv) it does not shield calpain against inactivation by the active-site inhibitor trans-(epoxysuccinyl)-L-leucyl-amido-3-methylbutane, suggesting a nonactive site action for PD150606. The recombinant calcium-binding domain from each of the large or small subunits of mu-calpain was found to interact with PD150606. In low micromolar range, PD15O6O6 inhibited calpain activity in two intact cell systems. The neuroprotective effects of this class of compound were also demonstrated by the ability of PD150606 to attenuate hypoxic/hypoglycemic injury to cerebrocortical neurons in culture and excitotoxic injury to Purkinje cells in cerebellar slices.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulates functional recovery from cognitive impairments associated with aging, either when administered as a purified protein or by means of gene transfer to the basal forebrain. Because gene transfer procedures need to be tested in long-term experimental paradigms to assess their in vivo efficiency, we have used ex vivo experimental gene therapy to provide local delivery of NGF to the aged rat brain over a period of 2.5 months by transplanting immortalized central nervous system-derived neural stem cells genetically engineered to secrete NGF. By grafting them at two independent locations in the basal forebrain, medial septum and nucleus basalis magnocellularis, we show that functional recovery as assessed in the Morris water maze can be achieved by neurotrophic stimulation of any of these cholinergic cell groups. Moreover, the cholinergic neurons in the grafted regions showed a hypertrophic response resulting in a reversal of the age-associated atrophy seen in the learning-impaired aged control rats. Long-term expression of the transgene lead to an increased NGF tissue content (as determined by NGF-ELISA) in the transplanted regions up to at least 10 weeks after grafting. We conclude that the gene transfer procedure used here is efficient to provide the brain with a long-lasting local supply of exogenous NGF, induces long-term functional recovery of cognitive functions, and that independent trophic stimulation of the medial septum or nucleus basalis magnocellularis has similar consequences at the behavioral level.
Systemic injection of kainic acid produces a characteristic regional and cellular pattern of neuronal loss in the central nervous system by mechanisms which may be relevant to an understanding of neurodegenerative disorders. It has previously been found, by measuring the binding of a glial marker ligand, that analogues of adenosine, such as R-N6-phenylisopropyladenosine (R-PIA), can prevent kainate-induced damage of the hippocampus at doses as low as 10 micrograms/kg, i.p. The use of gliotic markers, however, is open to misinterpretation, and the present work was designed to re-examine purine protection against kainate using histological methods. The results show that R-PIA, at a dose of 25 micrograms/kg i.p. in rats, can protect against the neuronal damage caused by kainate and that this protection could be completely prevented by the simultaneous administration of 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine, indicating the involvement of adenosine A1 receptors in the protection.
In this study we explored the effects of repeated MK-801 (0.10 mg/kg) treatment on rotation in rats with unilateral forebrain dopamine depletions. Daily injections of MK-801 across a 13-day period produced mild ipsilateral rotation which did not change significantly across days compared to daily injections of vehicle. Rats given repeated cotreatment of MK-801 with the selective D1 receptor agonist, A-85653 (0.06 mg/kg), developed response sensitization rather than the behavioral tolerance that was seen in rats given repeated vehicle+A-85653 injections. However, MK-801+A-85653 treated rats did demonstrate behavioral tolerance after an acute vehicle+A-85653 challenge, and the behavioral subsensitivity of rats given repeated vehicle+A-85653 injections reverted to normal in response to an acute MK-801+A-85653 challenge. Thus, MK-801 blocked the expression but not the development of D1-agonist induced behavioral tolerance. MK-801 treatment also enhanced striatal c-fos expression produced by A-85653 but only if MK-801 were given in combination with A-85653 2 h prior to sacrifice; prior daily treatment with MK-801 had no carry-over effect. In contrast to its effects on D1 agonist induced rotation, MK-801 cotreatment inhibited the robust contralateral rotation produced by repeated treatment with the D2/D3 agonist, quinpirole (0.15 mg/kg), and blocked both the development and expression of behavioral supersensitivity compared to rats treated with quinpirole alone. These results demonstrate differential effects of repeated MK-801 treatment on the development and expression of D1 and D2/D3 agonist induced response tolerance and sensitization, respectively.
Recent evidence has indicated a significant role for the cGMP second messenger system in vertebrate olfactory transduction but no clear functions have been identified for cGMP so far. Here, we have examined the effects of 8-Br-cGMP and carbon monoxide (CO) on odour responses of salamander olfactory receptor neurons using perforated patch recordings. We report that 8-Br-cGMP strongly down-regulates the odour sensitivity of the cells, with a K1/2 of 460 nM. This adaptation-like effect can be mimicked by CO, an activator of soluble guanylyl cyclase, with a K1/2 of 1 microM. Sensitivity modulation is achieved through a regulatory chain of events in which cGMP stimulates a persistent background current due to the activation of cyclic nucleotide-gated channels. This in turn leads to sustained Ca2+ entry providing a negative feedback signal. One consequence of the Ca2+ entry is a shift to the right of the stimulus-response curve and a reduction in saturating odour currents. Together, these two effects can reduce the sensory generator current by up to twenty-fold. Thus, cGMP functions to control the gain of the G-protein coupled cAMP pathway. Another consequence of the action of cGMP is a marked prolongation of the odour response kinetics. The effects of CO/cGMP are long-lasting and can continue for minutes. Hence, we propose that cGMP helps to prevent saturation of the cell's response by adjusting the operational range of the cAMP cascade and contributes to olfactory adaptation by decreasing the sensitivity of olfactory receptor cells to repeated odour stimuli.
The sigma receptor ligands (+) and (-)pentazocine and BD1008 (1-100 microM) were added to rat forebrain synaptosomes. Their effects on intrasynaptosomal free calcium ([Ca2+(+)]i) levels under basal conditions and after depolarisation with high potassium buffer (45 mM KCl), veratridine (25 microM) and 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, 1 mM) were determined. The sigma ligands elicited significant, concentration-dependent decreases in basal [Ca2+]i levels with an order of potency (-)pentazocine &gt; (+)pentazocine = BD1008. The sigma ligands (at the maximum effective concentrations) also significantly inhibited the rise in [Ca2+]i levels produced by depolarisation with KCl, veratridine and 4-AP. The effect of (+) and (-)pentazocine (100 microM) to inhibit the depolarisation-dependent increase in [Ca2+]i levels was greater when veratridine and 4-aminopyridine were used to depolarise the synaptosomes than with KCl, whereas the effect of BD1008 (100 microM) was approximately equipotent using all three depolarising agents. However, BD1008 was more potent to inhibit the KCl-induced rise in [Ca2+]i compared to (+) and (-)pentazocine. The data demonstrate for the first time that sigma ligands decrease [Ca2+]i levels in rat forebrain synaptosomes and this suggests a possible mechanism for the changes to neuronal protein phosphorylation and neurotransmitter release previously observed with sigma ligands.
The interactions of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants with subtypes of sigma receptors were investigated. The rank order of affinity (Ki values) from competition experiments of [3H](+)-pentazocine binding to sigma 1 sites was: fluvoxamine &gt; sertraline &gt; S(+)-fluoxetine &gt; (+/-)-fluoxetine &gt; citalopram &gt; imipramine &gt; paroxetine &gt; desipramine &gt; R(-)-fluoxetine &gt; (+/-)-norfluoxetine. The Ki values of all drugs for sigma 2 sites were more than 1000 nM. Furthermore, all drugs were more potent at sigma 1 sites than at sigma 2 sites. These findings suggest that sigma receptors (sigma 1 site) may play, in some way, a role in the actions of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.














We cut serial sections through the medial part of the rat vestibular macula for transmission electron microscopic (TEM) examination, computer-assisted 3-D reconstruction, and compartmental modeling. The ultrastructural research showed that many primary vestibular neurons have an unmyelinated segment, often branched, that extends between the heminode (putative site of the spike initiation zone) and the expanded terminal(s) (calyx, calyces). These segments, termed the neuron branches, and the calyces frequently have spine-like processes of various dimensions with bouton endings that morphologically are afferent, efferent, or reciprocal to other macular neural elements. The major questions posed by this study were whether small details of morphology, such as the size and location of neuronal processes or synapses, could influence the output of a vestibular afferent, and whether a knowledge of morphological details could guide the selection of values for simulation parameters. The conclusions from our simulations are (1) values of 5.0 k omega cm2 for membrane resistivity and 1.0 nS for synaptic conductance yield simulations that best match published physiological results; (2) process morphology has little effect on orthodromic spread of depolarization from the head (bouton) to the spike initiation zone (SIZ); (3) process morphology has no effect on antidromic spread of depolarization to the process head; (4) synapses do not sum linearly; (5) synapses are electrically close to the SIZ; and (6) all whole-cell simulations should be run with an active SIZ.


Many of the effects of gonadal steroid hormones in the male brain are due to the actions of the testosterone metabolite estradiol, which is synthesized by the actions of the P450 enzyme aromatase. Aromatase activity is present in regions of the preoptic area, hypothalamus, and limbic system. Levels of aromatase activity in the brain are highly dependent on gonadal steroid hormones in many brain regions, but not all. We examined the distribution of aromatase mRNA in adult male and female rat brains as well as the regulation of the levels of aromatase mRNA in the brains of males by gonadal steroid hormones using in situ hybridization. This method was performed using a 35S-labelled cRNA probe, transcribed in vitro from the rat ovarian aromatase cDNA. In the adult male, many heavily labelled cells were found in the encapsulated bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN), the ventromedial nucleus (VMN), the medial amygdala (mAMY), and the cortical amygdala (CoAMY). The regional distribution of aromatase mRNA was similar in females, but females tended to have a lower number of aromatase mRNA expressing cells in each region compared to males. Aromatase mRNA levels in the BNST, MPN, VMN, and mAMY tended to be lower in castrated males than in intact males, whereas aromatase mRNA levels were unaltered by castration in the CoAMY. The degree of reduction in mean levels of aromatase mRNA following castration does not simply account for the large changes measured in activity following castration. Examination of the entire population of individual cells expressing aromatase mRNA in castrated males suggests that aromatase mRNA may be regulated by steroid hormones differentially in specific populations of neurons within regions where activity is known to decrease following castration.
Non-synaptic diffusion neurotransmission (NDN) may be an important factor in brain space and energy conservation, especially within cell assemblies and for mass sustained functions. We have illustrated the extreme cases of total synaptic and total ND neurotransmission for the purpose of noting the differences between the two. For these modeling studies, in which we assume assemblies of 1000 to 100 000 cells supplied by at least one fiber and a single synapse from each of the other cells, each cell assembly would have approximately 200 m to 8000 km of nerve fibers more than when innervated by diffusion. For coeruleo-cortical synaptic innervation, linking each to a common origin (the locus coeruelus), the fiber lengths are 38 cm (1000 cells) to 170 m (100,000 cells). It is likely , however, that neuronal arrays include both 'wireless' (NDN) as well as synaptic intercellular communication systems.
Descending inhibition is increased after the induction of inflammation of the knee. The present study investigated whether this effect is mediated through alpha 2-adrenoceptors and/or I2 imidazoline receptors in the rat. An alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, RX 821002, a selective I2 imidazoline ligand, RS 45041, and idazoxan, which has affinity for both these receptor types, were administered. After the induction of acute arthritis by intra-articular injection of kaolin and carrageenan, the agents binding to I2 imidazoline receptors further reduced the paw withdrawal latency to radiant heat beyond that induced by acute arthritis, i.e. these drugs were pronociceptive, potentiating hyperalgesia. These results suggest that I2 imidazoline receptors have an important role to play in modulation of hyperalgesia during acute inflammation. Development of I2 imidazoline drugs may prove useful in the treatment of hyperalgesia.

Differentiation of BC3H1 cells leads to expression of a variety of proteins characteristic of smooth muscle and to changes in the behaviour of intracellular Ca2+ stores. Treatment of both differentiated and undifferentiated cells with thapsigargin (2 microM) emptied their intracellular Ca2+ stores, and in the presence of extracellular Ca2+ caused an increase in cytosolic [Ca2+] that rapidly reversed after its removal. The amplitudes of these capacitative Ca2+ entry signals were 101 +/- 8 nM (n = 42) in differentiated cells and 188 +/- 16 nM (n = 35) in undifferentiated cells. Mn2+ entry in thapsigargin-treated cells, measured by recording the quenching of cytosolic fura 2 fluorescence, was 374 +/- 26% (n = 34) and 154 +/- 7% (n = 41) of control rates in differentiated and undifferentiated cells, respectively. Empty stores caused Ba2+ entry to increase to 282 +/- 20% (n = 8) of its basal rate in differentiated cells and to 187 +/- 20% (n = 8) in undifferentiated cells. Rates of Ca2+ extrusion, measured after rapid removal of extracellular Ca2+ from cells in which capacitative Ca2+ entry had been activated, were similar in differentiated (t1/2 = 23 +/- 2 s, n = 7) and undifferentiated (23 +/- 1 s, n = 6) cells. The different relationships between capacitative Ca2+ and Mn2+ signals are not, therefore, a consequence of more active Ca2+ extrusion mechanisms in differentiated cells, nor are they a consequence of different fura 2 loadings in the two cell types. We conclude that during differentiation of BC3Hl cells, the cation selectivity of the capacitative pathway changes, becoming relatively more permeable to Mn2+ and Ba2+. The change may result either from expression of a different capacitative pathway or from modification of the permeation properties of a single pathway.

In many organisms muscle formation depends on specialized cells that prefigure the pattern of the musculature and serve as templates for myoblast organization and fusion. These include muscle pioneers in insects and muscle organizing cells in leech. In Drosophila, muscle founder cells have been proposed to play a similar role in organizing larval muscle development during embryogenesis. During metamorphosis in Drosophila, following histolysis of most of the larval musculature, there is a second round of myogenesis that gives rise to the adult muscles. It is not known whether muscle founder cells organize the development of these muscles. However, in the thorax specific larval muscle fibers do not histolyze at the onset of metamorphosis, but instead serve as templates for the formation of a subset of adult muscles, the dorsal longitudinal flight muscles (DLMs). Because these persistent larval muscle fibers appear to be functioning in many respects like muscle founder cells, we investigated whether they were necessary for DLM development by using a microbeam laser to ablate them singly and in combination. We found that, in the absence of the larval muscle fibers, DLMs nonetheless develop. Our results show that the persistent larval muscle fibers are not required to initiate myoblast fusion, to determine DLM identity, to locate the DLMs in the thorax, or to specify the total DLM fiber volume. However, they are required to regulate the number of DLM fibers generated. Thus, while the persistent larval muscle fibers are not obligatory for DLM fiber formation and differentiation, they are necessary to ensure the development of the correct number of fibers.
The nematode tap withdrawal reflex demonstrates several forms of behavioral plasticity. Although the neural connectivity that supports this behavior is identified (Integration of mechanosensory stimuli in Caenorhabditis elegans, Wicks and Rankin, 1995, J Neurosci 15:2434-2444), the neurotransmitter phenotypes, and hence whether the synapses in the circuit are excitatory or inhibitory, remain uncharacterized. Here we use a novel strategy to predict the polarity configuration, i.e., the array of excitatory and inhibitory connections, of the nematode tap withdrawal circuit using an anatomically and physiologically justifiable dynamic network simulation of that circuit. The output of the modeled circuit was optimized to the behavior of animals, which possessed circuits altered by surgical ablation by exhaustively enumerating an array of synaptic signs that constituted the modeled circuit. All possible polarity configurations were then compared, and a statistical analysis was used to determine whether, for a given synaptic class, a particular polarity was associated with a good fit to behavioral data. The results from four related experiments were used to predict the polarities of seven of the nine cell classes of the tap withdrawal circuit. In addition, the model was used to assess possible roles for two novel mechanosensory integration neurons: DVA and PVD.
Understanding the mechanisms involved in the biogenesis of N-arachidonoylethanolamine (anandamide) and N-palmitoylethanolamine is important in view of the possible role of these lipids as endogenous cannabinoid substances. Anandamide (which activates cannabinoid CB1 receptors) and N-palmitoylethanolamine (which activates a CB2-like receptor subtype in mast cells) may both derive from cleavage of precursor phospholipid, N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine (NAPE), catalyzed by Ca(2+)-activated D-type phosphodiesterase activity. We report here that the de novo biosynthesis of NAPE is enhanced in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner when rat cortical neurons are stimulated with the Ca(2+)-ionophore ionomycin or with membrane-depolarizing agents such as veratridine and kainate. This reaction is likely to be mediated by a neuronal N-acyltransferase activity, which catalyzes the transfer of an acyl group from phosphatidylcholine to the ethanolamine moiety of phosphatidylethanolamine. In addition, we show that Ca2+-dependent NAPE biosynthesis is potentiated by agents that increase cAMP levels, including forskolin and vasoactive intestinal peptide. Our results thus indicate that NAPE levels in cortical neurons are controlled by Ca2+ ions and cAMP. Such regulatory effect may participate in maintaining a supply of cannabimimetic N-acylethanolamines during synaptic activity, and prime target neurons for release of these bioactive lipids.
To investigate the influences of growth factors on axonal regeneration in the mammalian CNS, we used intracellular tracers to quantitate the effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin (NT)-4/5, or NT-3 on individual retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons in the retinas of adult rats after optic nerve transection. A single injection of BDNF or the prolonged administration of NT-4/5 by mini-pump increased axon branch median lengths by eightfold but had no effect on the number of branches formed by the RGC axons. NT-3 did not significantly influence axonal regrowth. These specific in vivo effects of BDNF and NT-4/5 on axonal regeneration from injured RGCs may be used to promote growth and expand the abnormally small terminal arbors observed when RGCs regrow into their CNS targets.
The ionic mechanism underlying the acetylcholine-induced depolarization of layer V pyramidal neurons of rat prefrontal cortex was examined using whole-cell recording in in vitro rat brain slices. Consistent with previous results, pressure application of acetylcholine to layer V pyramidal neurons elicited a strong depolarization. Pharmacological analysis of this response indicated that it was mediated by the stimulation of muscarinic receptors as it was mimicked by muscarinic agonists, but not by nicotine, and was blocked by atropine. The inward current responsible for the depolarization resulted from the activation of a voltage-dependent, cation nonselective current. Thus, the amplitude of the current was critically dependent on extracellular sodium concentration but not on extracellular potassium or chloride concentration. Examination of the I-V relationship for the muscarinic current using voltage clamp revealed that the current reversed near -15 mV and exhibited a strong voltage dependence, turning off rapidly in the subthreshold range. The voltage dependence of the current led to the appearance of a current associated with a conductance decrease when examined using steady-state voltage- or current-clamp measurements. This might have led to earlier misidentification of this response as mediated by a decrease in potassium conductance. These results question the traditional interpretation that muscarinic depolarization in cortex is mediated by a decrease in potassium conductance. They indicate that the fundamental mechanism responsible for muscarinic depolarization in prefrontal cortex involves the activation of a voltage-dependent, cation nonselective current. This current might represent a previously unsuspected mechanism capable of mediating slow depolarization in the central nervous system.
The present study was aimed at evaluating quantitatively gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) immunoreactivity in the hindlimb representation of the rat somatosensory cortex after 14 days of hindlimb unloading by tail suspension. A reduction in the number of GABA-immunoreactive cells with respect to the control animals was observed in layer Va and Vb. GABA-containing terminals were also reduced in the same layers, particularly those terminals surrounding the soma and apical dendrites of pyramidal cells in layer Vb. On the basis of previous morphological and behavioral studies of the neuromuscular system of hindlimb-suspended animals, it is suggested that the unloading due to hindlimb suspension alters afferent signaling and feedback information from intramuscular receptors to the cerebral cortex due to modifications in the reflex organization of hindlimb muscle groups. We propose that the reduction in immunoreactivity of local circuit GABAergic neurons and terminals is an expression of changes in their modulatory activity to compensate for the alterations in the afferent information.
Flavin-containing monooxygenase (FMO) activity was compared in rat liver and brain microsomes by estimating the actual amount of imipramine N-oxide relative to the corresponding activity, measured using substrate-stimulated rates of NADPH oxidation. The activities measured as NADPH oxidation rates were significantly higher than those estimated from the N-oxide formed. The brain FMO activity was detectable only in the presence of detergents (sodium cholate or Lubrol PX) or in microsomes that were freeze-thawed several times. The antibody to rabbit pulmonary FMO selectively inhibited imipramine N-oxidation. The antiserum to the rat liver NADPH cytochrome P-450 reductase had no effect on imipramine N-oxidation, indicating the noninvolvement of cytochrome P-450 in the above metabolic pathway. A flavin-containing monooxygenase was partially purified from the rat brain microsomes using sequential chromatography on n-octylamino-Sepharose 4B, DEAE-Sephacel and 2',5'-ADP agarose. The purified FMO was resolved by SDS-PAGE into two bands (approximately 57 and 61 KDa, respectively) both of which cross-reacted with antibody to rabbit pulmonary FMO. The purified enzyme metabolized imipramine and the model substrate methimazole to their respective N-oxide and S-oxides.
The neural cell adhesion molecule N-CAM has been proposed to function in the guidance of outgrowing axons in the peripheral and central nervous system. Light microscopic observations have shown that the embryonic form of N-CAM (200-230 kDa) is present in the ventralmost part of the dorsal funiculus during corticospinal tract (CST) ingrowth in the first postnatal week (Joosten, Dev. Brain Res., 78 (1994) 226-236). Here, the subcellular localization of the embryonic form of N-CAM (E-NCAM) is determined by pre-embedding staining on vibratome sections and by postembedding immunogold-labelling on Epon embedded spinal cord sections. The electron microscopical observations indicate that E-NCAM is present on the outer membrane of CST growth cones as well as other unmyelinated axons which are present in the ventralmost part of the dorsal funiculus. Furthermore, E-NCAM is localized in an irregular patchy way on the outer side of the axonal membrane of small unmyelinated, later arriving CST axons. From these results it may be deduced that E-NCAM is involved in CST tract formation through guidance of outgrowing pioneer CST growth cones along other unmyelinated axons and through mediation of axon fasciculation of later arriving CST axons.
During nervous system development, the generation of neuronal populations is subject to regulation by extracellular growth factors. Traditional views suggest that growth factors promote proliferation by increasing the fraction of precursors that enter the mitotic cycle and subsequently divide (that is, enhance mitosis). However, recent evidence indicates that dividing precursors may undergo cell death. Consequently, a given molecule may also increase neuroblast proliferation by promoting survival of dividing precursors. In the present work, we developed a new approach to distinguish these two distinct effects of growth factors on dividing neuroblasts. By using a brief 6 h culture paradigm of embryonic day 15.5 sympathetic neuroblasts, we minimized cell death, thereby excluding the survival-promoting (trophic) activity of growth factors. In the absence of trophism, measured increases in [3H]thymidine incorporation reflected growth factor mitogenic activity only. Using a well-characterized sympathetic model, we found that insulin, EGF and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) increased [3H]thymidine incorporation 30%, 20% and 46% respectively, consistent with their previously reported mitogenic activity. In contrast, neurotrophin-3 (NT3) and nerve growth factor (NGF), which serve as trophic signals for the neuroblasts, did not elicit any change in [3H]thymidine incorporation, indicating that the neurotrophins are not mitogenic for sympathetic precursors. This approach may be useful in distinguishing mitogenic and trophic regulation of proliferation in other brain precursor populations.
Developmental changes in glutamate receptor agonist-produced enhancement of 4-beta-[3H]phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate binding ([3H]-PDBu binding), indicative of an intracellular translocation of protein kinase C (PKC), were investigated in cerebellar granule cells. Our observations demonstrate that the magnitude of glutamate-, NMDA-, and kainate-produced enhancement of PKC translocation was dramatically decreased between 2 and 12 DIV, whereas there was only a minor reduction in the corresponding response caused by the non-NMDA receptor agonist, AMPA. The maximally enhanced stimulation of PKC translocation caused by glutamate and NMDA was significantly reduced already at 4 DIV, whereas a significant reduction of the kainate-induced enhancement of [3H]PDBu binding was not observed until 8 DIV. Glutamate- and NMDA-induced responses were effectively blocked by the specific NMDA receptor antagonists MK-801 (1 microM) and APV (100 microM) as well as by the addition of Mg2+ into assay media. In contrast, the non-NMDA receptor antagonist, CNQX (10 microM), effectively blocked the kainate-induced enhancement of [3H]PDBu binding, but had no effect on the NMDA- and glutamate-induced stimulation of PKC translocation. The metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, ACPD (up to 250 microM), had no effect on the translocation of PKC. Taken together, our data support the working hypothesis that the rapidly occurring changes in the glutamate receptor agonist-produced translocation of PKC are most likely due to a differential maturation of glutamate ionotropic receptor subtypes and/or to development-dependent alterations in mechanisms responsible for the coupling between the glutamate receptor subtypes and the activation of PKC translocation in cerebellar granule neurons.
In this study, the effect on extracellular adenosine concentration of direct activation of adenylyl cyclase by forskolin was investigated using rat cortical cultures. Forskolin evoked intracellular and extracellular cAMP accumulation as well as extracellular adenosine accumulation. The accumulation of adenosine in response to forskolin could be blocked by the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor 4-[(3-butoxy-4-methoxyphenyl)methyl]-2-imidazolidinone (RO 20-1724; 180 microM), but not isobutylmethylxanthine (100 microM). The accumulation of adenosine in response to forskolin could be blocked by the 5'-ectonucleotidase inhibitor guanosine 5'-monophosphate. These results demonstrate that forskolin can increase extracellular adenosine levels, and that this adenosine is ultimately derived from cAMP.
The purpose of the present study was to determine if selective activation of vestibular receptors during movement produces changes in hypoglossal nerve activity. Responses were recorded from the hypoglossal nerves during trapezoidal and sinusoidal head rotations in cats with extensive denervations to eliminate non-labyrinthine inputs that could be produced by the movements. Large (50 degrees) nose-up trapezoidal tilts produced an increase in nerve discharge; ear-down tilt was also effective in one-fourth of the animals. The responses to nose-up tilt were abolished following intracranial transections of the VIIIth cranial nerves. Smaller (20 degrees) sinusoidal head rotations in the roll, pitch and yaw planes were ineffective in producing responses. These data suggest that vestibular inputs elicited by nose-up pitch contribute to tongue protrusion and participate in maintaining airway patency by preventing the tongue from falling to the back of the mouth.
We observed that the pro-opiomelanocortin-derived neuropeptide, gamma 2-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (gamma 2-MSH), has various peripheral and central hemodynamic effects in the rat, including a marked enhancing effect on cerebral blood flow. This hemodynamic profile might be of interest in the pharmacotherapeutic approach to acute cerebral ischemia. Being an adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) analogue, gamma 2-MSH might also possess direct neuronal protective properties. Therefore, in two rat models of focal cerebral ischemia we studied the effects of gamma 2-MSH, with nimodipine, a Ca2+ channel antagonist, as a reference compound, on parasagittal laser-Doppler-assessed cortical blood flow and infarction volume. In isoflurane-anesthetized Wistar and F344 rats i.v. bolus infusions (four in total) of gamma 2-MSH or nimodipine or their vehicle controls were given 1 h before, 1 min after, and 1 h and 2 h after occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. We used both an intravasal and an extravasal middle cerebral artery occlusion technique because pilot experiments had shown differences in the severity of ischemia with the two techniques. gamma 2-MSH (100 nmol/kg in 1 min) increased cortical blood flow significantly but transiently, both pre- and post-ischemically, whereas nimodipine (20 micrograms/kg in 1 min) increased cortical blood flow only pre-ischemically in both models of middle cerebral artery occlusion. gamma 2-MSH had no effect on cortical and striatal infarction volume, while nimodipine caused a significant reduction of cortical infarction volume in the extravasal middle cerebral artery occlusion model. To conclude, despite its hemodynamic and possible neuroprotective properties, gamma 2-MSH did not prevent ischemic neuronal damage after middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. This might be partly due to the short half-life of the peptide, leading to a transient increase in cortical blood flow and short neuronal exposure time, suggesting that prolonged infusion of the neuropeptide might be required. The results with nimodipine support the notion that it attenuates cortical ischemic damage, independently of effects on cerebral hemodynamics.
Visual information is conveyed to the brain by the retinal ganglion cells. Midget ganglion cells serve fine spatial vision by summing excitation from a receptive field 'centre', receiving input from a single cone in the central retina, with lateral inhibition from a receptive field 'surround', receiving input from many surrounding cones. Midget ganglion cells are also thought to serve colour opponent vision because the centre excitation is from a cone of one spectral type, while the surround inhibition is from cones of the other type. The two major cone types, middle(M)- and long-(L)wavelength sensitive, are equally numerous and randomly distributed in the primate central retina, so a spectrally homogeneous surround requires that the cells mediating lateral interactions (horizontal or amacrine cells) receive selective input from only one cone type. Horizontal cells cannot do this because they receive input indiscriminately from M and L cones. Here we report that the amacrine cells connected to midget ganglion cells are similarly indiscriminate. The absence of spectral specificity in the inhibitory wiring raises doubt about the involvement of midget ganglion cells in colour vision and suggest that colour opponency may instead be conveyed by a different type of ganglion cell.
Cortical population coding could in principle rely on either the mean rate of neuronal action potentials, or the relative timing of action potentials, or both. When a single sensory stimulus drives many neurons to fire at elevated rates, the spikes of these neurons become tightly synchronized, which could be involved in 'binding' together individual firing-rate feature representations into a unified object percept. Here we demonstrate that the relative timing of cortical action potentials can signal stimulus features themselves, a function even more basic than feature grouping. Populations of neurons in the primary auditory cortex can coordinate the relative timing of their action potentials such that spikes occur closer together in time during continuous stimuli. In this way cortical neurons can signal stimuli even when their firing rates do not change. Population coding based on relative spike timing can systemically signal stimulus features, it is topographically mapped, and it follows the stimulus time course even where mean firing rate does not.
Gap junction channels are formed by members of the connexin gene family and mediate direct intercellular communication through linked hemichannels (connexons) from each of two adjacent cells. While for most connexins, the hemichannels appear to require an apposing hemichannel to open, macroscopic currents obtained from Xenopus oocytes expressing rat Cx46 suggested that some hemichannels can be readily opened by membrane depolarization [Paul, D. L., Ebihara, L., Takemoto, L. J., Swenson, K. I. &amp; Goodenough, D. A. (1991), J. Cell Biol. 115, 1077-1089]. Here we demonstrate by single channel recording that hemichannels comprised of rat Cx46 exhibit complex voltage gating consistent with there being two distinct gating mechanisms. One mechanism partially closes Cx46 hemichannels from a fully open state, gammaopen, to a substate, gammasub, about one-third of the conductance of gammaopen; these transitions occur when the cell is depolarized to inside positive voltages, consistent with gating by transjunctional voltage in Cx46 gap junctions. The other gating mechanism closes Cx46 hemichannels to a fully closed state, gammaclosed, on hyperpolarization to inside negative voltages and has unusual characteristics; transitions between gammaclosed and gammaopen appear slow (10-20 ms), often involving several transient substates distinct from gammasub. The polarity of activation and kinetics of this latter form of gating indicate that it is the mechanism by which these hemichannels open in the cell surface membrane when unapposed by another hemichannel. Cx46 hemichannels display a substantial preference for cations over anions, yet have a large unitary conductance (approximately 300 pS) and a relatively large pore as inferred from permeability to tetraethylammonium (approximately 8.5 angstroms diameter). These hemichannels open at physiological voltages and could induce substantial cation fluxes in cells expressing Cx46.
Electrophysiological studies have suggested that the excitatory actions of opioids in the hippocampal formation are mediated by inhibition of interneurons containing GABA; however, an anatomical basis for this interaction has never been established. Thus, we sought to determine the relationship between leu-enkephalin (LE)-containing axon terminals and GABAergic neurons using dual labeling immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. In the CA1 region of the hippocampus, LE-labeled terminals (n = 99) were in direct contact with GABA-labeled perikarya and dendrites (18%), and directly apposed to GABA-labeled axon terminals (14%). In the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, LE-containing terminals (n = 125) occasionally apposed GABA-containing terminals (8%). In the hilus of the dentate gyrus, LE-containing terminals (n = 165) often contacted GABA-containing perikarya and dendrites (39%), but rarely apposed GABA-containing terminals (3%). In the CA3 region of the hippocampus, only a few LE-labeled mossy fiber boutons (n = 102) contacted the shafts of GABA-labeled dendrites (4%). The results demonstrate that leu-enkephalin-containing terminals have a different anatomical relationship with GABA-containing profiles in each subregion of the hippocampal formation. In the CA1 region of the hippocampus, the data support the numerous electrophysiological studies indicating that LE functions in modulating inhibitory GABAergic neurons by both pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms. In the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus the localization suggests some presynaptic regulation of GABAergic terminals. In the hilus of the dentate gyrus, the study also supports the contention that LE may have an important role in regulating inhibition of GABA-containing neurons. In comparison, in the CA3 region of the hippocampus, LE may have a more limited role in regulating GABAergic inhibition by direct association.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor is a cytokine that has effects on neuronal survival and phenotype in vitro and in vivo. Ciliary neurotrophic factor has also been shown to have effects on microglia and oligodendrocytes in vitro and in vivo. In this study, we demonstrate in vivo effects of ciliary neurotrophic factor on astrocytes in both the injured and uninjured central nervous system. Ciliary neurotrophic factor increases the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein and induces concomitant morphological changes in central nervous system astrocytes. Messenger RNA for both ciliary neurotrophic factor and the alpha-component of the ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor is demonstrated in the optic nerve, an essentially pure population of central nervous system glia. We also report here that the promoter region of the glial fibrillary acidic protein gene contains sequences thought to confer direct ciliary neurotrophic factor modulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein gene transcription. Although it is thought that astrocytes are a source of endogenous ciliary neurotrophic factor in the central nervous system and that neurons express the alpha-component of the ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor, the results of the present investigation suggest that astrocytes themselves respond to ciliary neurotrophic factor and that ciliary neurotrophic factor may also be important in glial cell-cell interactions.
The sensory control of lamprey dorsal fin motoneurons was studied by using paired intracellular recordings combined with a morphological analysis. Dorsal cells innervating the skin of the dorsal fin and fin motoneurons were retrogradely labeled by injecting fluoresceincoupled dextran amines into the dorsal fin. Labeled motoneurons and dorsal cells showed close appositions, suggesting that the dorsal cells innervating the fin region make monosynaptic connections with fin motoneurons. By using conventional electrophysiological criteria, monosynaptic excitatory connections were found between fin dorsal cells and fin motoneurons. In addition, Lucifer yellow injection followed by confocal three-dimensional (3-D) reconstructions of monosynaptically connected pairs, revealed close apposition between dorsal cell axons and the distal dendrites of fin motoneurons. Each fin motoneuron received monosynaptic excitatory input from at least four different afferents. The amplitude of the monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP)s was reduced by administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist DL,2 amino-5-phosphovaleric acid (APV). Sensory stimulation could also elicit di- or oligosynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP)s, which were blocked by the glycine antagonist strychnine, resulting in the appearance of large monosynaptic EPSPs, which could induce action potentials.
The regional and cellular distribution of the different classes of excitatory amino acid receptors with respect to the noradrenergic neurons of the nucleus locus coeruleus (LC) are unknown. We therefore combined immunoperoxidase labeling for the R1 subunit of the N-methy-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor with immunogold-silver localization of the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), in single sections through the rat LC to determine the subcellular localization of this glutamate receptor subtype with respect to the noradrenergic neurons. At the light microscopic level, there was light to moderate labeling for the NMDA-R1-like (li) receptor in the caudal pole of the LC and dense labeling in the dorsolateral aspect of the LC adjacent to the superior cerebellar peduncle. In the rostral pole of the LC which is enriched with noradrenergic dendrites, significant overlap between both immunoreactivities could be observed. At the ultrastructural level, immunoperoxidase labeling for NMDA-R1 was selectively distributed in astrocytic processes and within presynaptic axon terminals but was rarely seen in catecholamine-containing somata or dendrites. Peroxidase labeling for NMDA-R1, however, was occasionally observed in dendrites in the rostral pole of the LC. Most of these dendrites lacked detectable levels of TH, although TH immunoreactivity was apparent in the neuropil. Dendrites containing NMDA-R1-li immunoreactivity often received asymmetric (excitatory-type) contacts from unlabeled terminals. NMDA-R1-li-immunoreactive axon terminals usually contained small clear, as well as large dense-core vesicles and were often apposed to unlabeled dendrites, axon terminals and/or glial processes. These results provide the first ultrastructural evidence that NMDA-R1-li immunoreactivity is selectively distributed within astrocytic processes and presynaptic axon terminals within the LC.
During the past two decades, the introduction of several modern neuroanatomical approaches resulted in a rapidly growing body of informations about neuronal pathways in the central nervous system. Several new neuronal connections between brain areas have been discovered, and the chemical nature (neurotransmitter content) of pathways has been determined by using highly specific neurochemical and immunohistochemical techniques. On the basis of these new informations, our knowledge and attitude to the general organization of neuronal connections have been changed substantially: 1. Neuronal pathways are multi-neuronal networks rather than simple chain of neurons, wherein informations are forwarded between two brain areas bidirectionally, meanwhile several additional brain regions are inter-connected by axon-collaterals. 2. A single neuronal cell may synthesize several neuropeptides which co-localized in and released from nerve terminals, and depending on the target sites they may act as neurotransmitters or neurohormones. In certain conditions, neuropeptides may also function as nerve growth factors by supporting the survival or the restitution of neuronal cells. 3. By the introduction of molecular imaging in neuroscience (visualization of oncogenes, specific mRNA's, etc), topographical studies on neuronal pathways are more and more completed by functional informations.

N-, P- and Q-type voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels control neurotransmitter release in the nervous system and are blocked by omega-conotoxin MVIIC. In this study, both a high affinity and a low affinity binding site for omega-conotoxin MVIIC were detected in rabbit brain. The low affinity binding site is shown to be present on the N-type Ca2+ channel. Using optimized conditions for specific labeling of the high affinity omega-conotoxin MVIIC receptor and a panel of subunit specific antibodies, the molecular structure of the high affinity receptor was investigated. We demonstrate for the first time that this receptor is composed of at least alpha1A, alpha2delta, and any one of the four brain beta subunits. Such association of different beta subunits with alpha1A and alpha2delta components may produce Ca2+ channels with distinct functional properties, such as P- and Q-type.
Norepinephrine (NE) (von Euler, U. S. (1972) in Catecholamines (Blaschko, H., and Muscholl, E., eds.) pp. 186-230, Springer-Verlag, Berlin) and nitric oxide (NO.) function as neurotransmitters in the nervous system. We have shown that NE levels in the rat hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (Shintani, F., Kato, R., Kinoshita, N., Kanba, S., Asai, M., and Nakaki, T.(1995) Proceedings of the Satellite Symposium, 4th IBRO World Congress on Neuroscience, Otsu, 1995) diminish in the presence of NO.. This observation prompted us to explore the possibility of an in vivo interaction between NE and NO. or NO.-related molecules. In fact, nitration of NE has been shown to occur in vitro (d'Ischia, M., and Costantini, C. (1995) Bioorg. Med. Chem. 3, 923-927). We now report the identification of 6-nitronorepinephrine in the mammalian brain. Amounts of 6-nitronorepinephrine in the rat brain were attenuated by intraperitoneal administration of an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). This was reversed by coadministration of L-arginine, suggesting that nitric oxide synthase participated in the formation of 6-nitronorepinephrine. Moreover, we found that 6-nitronorepinephrine inhibits the activity of catechol O-methyltransferase, as well as NE transport into rat synaptosomes. A rat brain microdialysis experiment showed that perfusion of 6-nitronorepinephrine into the rat paraventricular nucleus significantly elevated NE while decreasing 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol and that L-NAME administered intraperitoneally decreased NE and increased 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol. These observations suggest that 6-nitronorepinephrine generated in nuclei containing both adrenergic and nitrergic neurons inhibits NE inactivation. We propose that 6-nitronorepinephrine is a potential signal molecule linking the actions of NE and NO..
Electrical stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN) in rat (1 h) reduces, by 50%, the infarction produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCAO). We investigated whether salvage was associated with elevations in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and/or reductions of regional cerebral glucose utilization (rCGU) in the retrievable zone (RZ). rCGU and rCBF were measured autoradiographically 1 h after MCAO. MCAO reduced rCBF to &lt; 15% in the irretrievable zone (IZ) and approximately 50% in the RZ (P &lt; 0.01 for each) while FN stimulation alone globally elevated rCBF by approximately 60% (P &lt; 0.01). rCGU was not changed. After MCAO, FN stimulation failed to increase the reduced rCBF but elevated rCGU globally (to approximately 30%). Reductions of focal ischemic infarctions by stimulating FN cannot be attributed to changes in rCBF and or rCGU.
Fos oncoprotein expression is a marker of neuronal activation following seizures. Here, using this method we examined the anatomical locations of muscimol-induced absence seizures in the rat forebrain. Six hours after a systemic injection of muscimol a massive Fos immunoreactivity appeared in the olfactory system, retrosplenial cortex and paraventricular thalamic nucleus, whereas other cortical areas contained low level of Fos expression. These results provide the first functional morphological evidence suggesting that these forebrain structures with Fos expression may play an important role in the pathophysiology of muscimol-induced absence seizures.
In many regions of the cerebral cortex, Ca2+ influx through NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) sensitive glutamate receptors (NMDA receptors) can trigger two forms of synaptic plasticity: long-term depression (LTD) and long-term potentiation (LTP). LTD is induced by low levels of postsynaptic NMDA-receptor activation, for instance in response to low-frequency stimulation, whereas LTP is induced by the stronger activation that occurs following high-frequency stimulation. Theoretical studies have shown that the properties of synaptic LTD and LTP can account for many aspects of experience-dependent plasticity in the developing visual cortex, provided that the LTD-LTP crossover point (the modification threshold, theta(m)) varies as a function of the history of cortical activity. Here we provide direct experimental evidence that the value of theta(m) depends on sensory experience. We find in visual cortex of light-deprived rats that LTP is enhanced and LTD diminished over a range of stimulation frequencies, and that these effects can be reversed by as little as two days of light exposure. Our findings support the idea that a variable synaptic modification threshold allows synaptic weights in neural networks to achieve a stable equilibrium.
Receptor alkylation in vivo with N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1, 2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ) decreased the potency, but not the efficacy, of the dopamine D3 receptor-preferring agonist 7-hydroxy-N, N-di-n-propyl-2-aminotetralin (7-OH-DPAT) at synthesis modulating dopamine autoreceptors in striatal and olfactory tubercle slices stimulated by 30 mM K+. In contrast, 7-OH-DPAT was ineffective in slices exposed to forskolin (10 microM). The results support the presence of autoreceptor reserve in vitro, and the partial involvement of dopamine D3 receptors in the autoregulation of dopamine synthesis.
Detailed anatomical analysis and compartmental modeling techniques were used to study the impact of CA3b pyramidal cell dendritic morphology and hippocampal anatomy on the amplitude and time course of dendritic synaptic signals. We have used computer-aided tracing methods to obtain accurate three-dimensional representations of 8 CA3b pyramidal cells. The average total dendritic length was 6,332 +/- 1,029 microns and 5,062 +/- 1,397 microns for the apical and basilar arbors, respectively. These cells also exhibited a rough symmetry in their maximal transverse and septotemporal extents (311 +/- 84 microns and 269 +/- 106 microns). From the calculated volume of influence (the volume of the neuropil from which the dendritic structures can receive input), it was found that these cells show a limited symmetry between their proximal apical and basilar dendrites (2.1 +/- 1.2 x 10(6) microns 3 and 3.5 +/- 1.1 x 10(6) microns 3, respectively). Based upon these data, we propose that the geometry of these cells can be approximated by a combination of two cones for the apical arbor and a single cone for the basilar arbor. The reconstructed cells were used to build compartmental models and investigate the extent to which the cellular anatomy determines the efficiency with which dendritic synaptic signals are transferred to the soma. We found that slow, long lasting signals show only approximately a 50% attenuation when they occur in the most distal apical dendrites. However, synaptic transients similar to those seen in fast glutamatergic transmission are transferred much less efficiently, showing up to a 95% attenuation. The relationship between the distance along the dendrites and the observed attenuation for a transient is described simply by single exponential functions with parameters of 195 and 147 microns for the apical and basilar arbors respectively. In contrast, there is no simple relation that describes how a transient is attenuated with respect to these cells' stratified inputs. This lack of a simple relationship arises from the radial orientation of the proximal apical and basilar dendrites. When combined, the anatomical and modeling data suggest that a CA3b cell can be approximated in three dimensions as the combination of three cones. The amplitude and time-course for a synaptic transient can then be predicted using two simple equations.
The purpose of the study was to determine the prevalence of recurrent headaches among schoolchildren in Gteborg and the relation of headache to school and family variables. A stratified sample of 1297 pupils was selected to be representative of the Gteborg population. Data were obtained by means of questionnaires. Twenty-six per cent had &quot;headache once a month or more&quot; and 6% had &quot;headache several times a week or daily&quot; (frequent headache). There was a gradual increase of headache with age. In the third grade there was a marked increase of frequent headache. In the highest school level (grades 7-9), girls had significantly more headache than boys. In the lower school level (grades 1-3), a greater number of pupils in the class increases the risk of frequent headache. Pupils in the intermediate school level (grades 4-6) reported more frequent headache in districts with high unemployment. It is concluded that headache among schoolchildren is a health problem which merits increased attention.
The genetic and environmental origins of individual differences in scores on the anxiety-proneness scales from the Karolinska Scales of Personality were explored using a twin/adoption study design in a sample consisting of 15 monozygotic twin pairs reared apart, and 26 monozygotic and 29 dizygotic twin pairs reared together. The results showed that genetic factors accounted for individual differences in scores on the psychasthenia and somatic anxiety scales. The genetic determinants were not specific to each scale, but were common to both scales. Shared-rearing environmental determinants were important for individual differences in lack of assertiveness and psychic anxiety, and were common to both scales. Individual differences in muscular tension were found to be attributable to the effects of correlated environments. The most important factor explaining individual differences for all scales was the non-shared environment component. The evidence for an aetiologically heterogeneous anxiety-proneness construct emphasizes the appropriateness of a multi-dimensional approach to anxiety proneness.
A replicated bidirectional selective breeding program has produced lines of mice that differ in locomotor response to ethanol (EtOH). FAST mice were bred for high locomotor activation, whereas SLOW mice were bred for low or depressed locomotor activity in response to 2.0 g/kg of EtOH. We tested FAST and SLOW mice for differences in sensitivity to the incoordinating (1.5 to 2.5 g/kg), hypothermic (3.0 g/kg), and sedative (4.0 g/kg) effects of EtOH, and for differences in sensitivity to withdrawal after acute and chronic EtOH exposure. SLOW mice were more ataxic in a grid test and developed greater tolerance than FAST mice at 2.0 g/kg of EtOH, were more hypothermic than FAST mice, and were more sensitive to the sedative effects of EtOH than FAST mice, as measured by latency to and duration of loss of righting reflex, and by blood ethanol concentrations at regain of the righting reflex. FAST mice had more severe withdrawal seizures after chronic exposure, but did not differ from SLOW mice in withdrawal severity after an acute injection of EtOH. These data suggest that FAST mice are generally more sensitive to central nervous system excitation, and SLOW mice are generally more sensitive to central nervous system sedation by EtOH, and further suggest genetic overlap with respect to genes that mediate locomotor responses to EtOH and genes determining sensitivity to EtOH-induced ataxia, hypothermia, sedation, and withdrawal severity after chronic exposure. Our current observations are in contrast to observations made earlier in selection, in which few line differences in sensitivity to EtOH effects other than locomotor activity were found. Thus, it seems that continued selection for differences in locomotor response to EtOH has produced genetically correlated differences in other EtOH responses.

The rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) plays a primary role in the tonic and phasic control of arterial blood pressure. Stimulation of angiotensin receptors in this region appears to contribute to the tonic excitatory drive of RVLM neurons involved in the control of blood pressure, but the extent of this contribution has not been previously evaluated. The present study used bilateral microinjections of angiotensin receptor antagonists into the RVLM of chloralose-anesthetized rats to determine the degree to which tonic blood pressure was dependent upon this angiotensin-mediated input. Bilateral injection into the RVLM of 1 nmol of [Sar1, Thr8]angiotensin II or [Sar1, Ile8] angiotensin II decreased blood pressure approximately 40 mmHg. The decrease in blood pressure elicited by these angiotensin antagonists was nearly as great as that elicited by complete bilateral inhibition of the RVLM produced by local injections of muscimol or elicited by inhibition of the autonomic nervous system by intravenous injection of chlorisondamine. The decrease in blood pressure caused by injection of these angiotensin antagonists was localized to the RVLM and was dose related. Responses elicited by [Sar1, Thr8]angiotensin II were eliminated by coinjection of angiotensin. In addition to markedly decreasing resting blood pressure, 1 nmol of [Sar1, Thr8]angiotensin II injected into the RVLM, also completely antagonized the increase in blood pressure elicited by blocking the tonic inhibitory influence exerted on the RVLM by neurons in the caudal ventrolateral medulla. These results demonstrate that tonic stimulation of angiotensin receptors in the RVLM accounts for much of the excitatory sympathetic vasomotor drive emanating from the RVLM.
Using respiratory quotient as an index of metabolic state, we compared the effects of administrations of the fructose analogue 2,5-anhydro-D-mannitol (2,5-AM) at a dose of 300 mg/kg with the effect of 10 h of food deprivation. We measured behavioral and physiological responses of the animals receiving the two treatments, including food intake, energy expenditure, rates of carbohydrate and fatty acid utilization, and plasma levels of glucose, insulin, corticosterone, epinephrine, and norepinephrine. A vehicle-treated control group was also included. Fasting produced a greater food intake than 2,5-AM administration. Although plasma glucose, insulin, and norepinephrine levels were similar between the two treatments, plasma corticosterone and epinephrine levels were significantly elevated in animals receiving 2,5-AM. We conclude that although 2,5-AM can produce a metabolic state similar to fasting, as measured by an index of whole body metabolic state (respiratory quotient), there remain factors that influence food intake that are not similar in the two conditions.
Many concepts in neuromuscular physiology can be difficult for instructors to teach and for students to understand. The behaviors of various components in neuromuscular systems do not always interact in obvious ways, and the function of hundreds of components can be very different from the function of just one or two &quot;representatives.&quot; In this paper, a simulator is presented that can model both small and large spinal circuitry systems thus allowing students to explore the dynamic functional implications of the static circuitry diagrams that are common in many neuroscience textbooks. The simulator brings to life many concepts in neuromuscular physiology and permits students to explore such concepts without extensive supervision. The benefits and drawbacks of using this kind of simulator in the classroom are discussed, based on initial field tests with undergraduate and graduate students as well as input from the literature. It was found that such a simulation can be very useful as a teaching tool if it is used properly with the right audience.

The neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) plays a central role in the control of motor function, emotional states, and endocrine physiology. The discovery that schizophrenic symptoms can be alleviated by neuroleptic drugs and the finding that these drugs interact at dopamine receptors has indicated involvement of the dopamine system in schizophrenia. The dopamine system has recently been shown to rely on the activation of five distinct subtypes of DA receptors (D1-D5) identified by molecular cloning, and pharmacological studies have specifically implicated the D2-like receptors (D2R, D3R and D4R) in antipsychotic action. In addition, the localization of D3R and D4R expression in the mesolimbic/mesocortical DA pathways is consistent with their proposed involvement in affective behaviour, and suggests that drugs developed specifically for these receptor subtypes might have potent antipsychotic activity with a lower propensity for extrapyramidal, endocrine, and cognitive side-effects.
Although defects in the gene encoding the enzyme cytosolic copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) have been reported in 20% of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients, the etiology of the remaining familial cases and the more common sporadic form of the disease remains unknown. Recently, deletions of the neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein gene NAIP, of the survival motor neuron gene SMN, and of a further cDNA fragment, XS2G3, have been reported in childhood-onset proximal spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), another disorder with pathology restricted to the motor system. We have therefore investigated the possibility of alterations in SMN and NAIP in 154 patients with ALS (135 sporadic cases, 17 familial cases). None of these patients revealed mutations in SMN by single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis. A single patient revealed a partial deletion of NAIP, with a homozygous absence of NAIP exon 5. While it is possible that this individual is one of the rare carriers of SMA who show NAIP deletions, a further explanation is that the NAIP deletion is in some way contributing to the ALS phenotype in this individual.
Despite advances in the diagnosis and surgical treatment of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), the morbidity and mortality rates remain disturbingly high. In those patients that survive the initial event, deaths due to re-bleeding have been reduced as a result of a trend to earlier surgical repair of the aneurysm. Unfortunately, a large percentage of patients go on to die or become permanently disabled from cerebral infarction as a consequence of vasospasm. The exact mechanisms that contribute to the development of cerebral vasospasm in these patients continue to elude researchers. The pathological processes implicated in the vasospasm phenomenon will be described. Even though no single pharmacological agent or treatment protocol has been identified that prevents or reverses this deadly complication, a number of promising intervention strategies are being employed in the critical care setting. These will be explored in light of the most current research findings. Clearly, early detection and prompt treatment are vital if the outcomes for persons suffering aneurysmal SAH are to improve. A sound knowledge base, well-developed assessment and clinical reasoning skills, and a deeper understanding of the pathological processes and treatment objectives will assist the neuroscience practitioner to more ably care for these most challenging patients.
Neuroscience nurses as well as other health care providers are called upon to assess and implement intervention strategies to assist clients and family members and significant others to communicate in the presence of communication deficits. Language, high level language skills and speech are frequently addressed in presentations and in the literature but pragmatics which includes prosody, attitude, emotions and gestural behaviors is rarely addressed. Pragmatic competence mediated by the right hemisphere, is an equally important and essential component of human communication. An understanding of pragmatics permits the neuroscience nurse to identify and evaluate pragmatic deficits so interventions to facilitate communication can be undertaken. Specifically prosody, that is melody, pause, intonation, stresses and accents, affective tone, subtle grades of meaning and varied emphasis; its components; and aprosodia (lack of prosody) will be discussed. Kinesics, that is limb, body and facial movements, and referred to as pantomime and gestures, will be examined also as will facial expression. Suggestions for pragmatic assessment and therapeutic nursing interventions will be given.
Alzheimer's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder believed to involve selective neuronal cell atrophy/loss in certain brain regions. The progress of the disease is accompanied by selective cognitive impairments and behavioral disturbances. The hypothesis has been put forward that by activation of selective brain areas throughout life one might protect or delay the degenerative process. This hypothesis, paraphrased as &quot;a differential level of brain cell activity may account for cell selective loss&quot; or &quot;use it or lose it&quot;, further suggests that a certain level of neuronal plasticity persists during aging and even in Alzheimer's disease.
This study examined the role of the entorhinal cortex (EC) in conditioned odor aversion learning (COA). Lateral EC lesions did not impair but rather facilitated COA. In the experiments the delay separating the odor cue presentation from the subsequent toxicosis was varied during acquisition. EC-lesioned rats demonstrated COA for delays up to 2 hr, whereas sham-operated rats displayed COA only if toxicosis immediately followed the odor cue. This facilitation was not dependent on the intensity of the odor and corresponded to a facilitated long-delay learning. EC lesion did not affect conditioned taste aversion, confirming that the facilitation effect does not correspond to a general facilitation of conditioned aversion learning. Taken together, these results indicate that the removal of the EC may allow odor-toxicosis associations across longer delays by extending the duration of the olfactory trace.
Young (0.5 years) and aged (2+, 3+, and 4+ years) rabbits underwent acquisition of the classically conditioned nictitating membrane response in a delay (500-ms conditioned stimulus [CS], 400-ms interstimulus interval [ISI]), long-delay (1,000-ms CS, 900-ms ISI), or trace (500-ms CS, 400-ms stimulus-free period) paradigm. Collapsing across age groups, there is a general tendency for animals to acquire trace conditioning more slowly than delay conditioning. Collapsing across conditioning paradigms, there is a general tendency for aged animals to acquire more slowly than younger animals. Of greater significance, however, are the age differences in the different conditioning paradigms. In the delay and long-delay paradigms, significant conditioning deficits first appeared in the 4(+)-year-old group. In the trace conditioning paradigm, significant conditioning deficits became apparent in the 2(+)-year-old animals.
We previously reported increased glutamatergic innervation in orbital frontal cortex in schizophrenia. In view of the evidence that one serotonin (5-HT) receptor, the 5-HT(1A) subtype, is associated with cortical glutamatergic neurons, we have used quantitative receptor autoradiography to measure the specific binding of the 5-HT(1A) receptor ligand [3H]8-OH-DPAT (2 nM) in sections of orbital frontal cortex taken from 18 control and 12 schizophrenic postmortem brains. Schizophrenic patients, as compared with controls, had increased 5-HT(1A) receptor binding in the three orbital frontal regions examined. These effects were pronounced in the male subgroup, and were most apparent in the outer cortical laminae. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that schizophrenia is associated with an abnormal glutamatergic afferent innervation of orbital frontal cortex.
Side-effects of iohexol myelography were compared after pre-treatment with oral dexamethasone (n = 42) or placebo (n = 44) in a prospective, randomized, double blind, controlled clinical trial. Although myelogram side-effects were commoner in the placebo group, the differences generally did not reach statistical significance. The routine prophylactic use of oral corticosteroids for myelogram side-effects therefore cannot be recommended and our results may cast doubt on their use in the treatment of these symptoms once they have developed. These findings also suggest that inflammatory processes (allergic or chemical irritant), relating to the contrast agent itself, against which corticosteroids might have been expected to act, have at most a minor pathogenetic role in postmyelogram symptomatology.
A number of cholinoceptor antagonists used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease were examined for their ability to antagonize either the muscarinic receptor-mediated inhibition of dopamine D1 receptor-stimulated adenylyl cyclase or the muscarinic receptor-mediated stimulation of [3H]-inositol phosphates ([3H]-IPs) formation in rat striatal membranes. The drugs were found to block the receptors inhibiting adenylyl cyclase activation with high affinity and more potently than those stimulating [3H]-IPs formation. Moreover, their rank order of potencies for the former effect showed good correlation with their clinical efficacies. These data suggest that the blockade of the muscarinic receptor-mediated inhibition of striatal dopamine D1 receptor activation may be one of the mechanisms by which cholinoceptor blocking drugs exert their antiparkinsonian effect.
1. Gabapentin is a novel anticonvulsant with an unknown mechanism of action. Recent homogenate binding studies with [3H]-gabapentin have suggested a structure-activity relationship similar to that shown for the amino acid transport system responsible for the uptake of large neutral amino acids (LNAA). 2. The autoradiographic binding distribution of [3H]-gabapentin in rat brain was compared with the distributions for excitatory amino acid receptor subtypes and the uptake sites for excitatory and large neutral amino acids in consecutive rat brain sections. 3. Densitometric measurement of the autoradiographic images followed by normalisation with respect to the hippocampus CA1 stratum radiatum, was carried out before comparison of each binding distribution with that of [3H]-gabapentin by linear regression analysis. The correlation coefficients observed showed no absolute correlation was observed between the binding distributions of [3H]-gabapentin and those of the excitatory amino acid receptor subtypes. The acidic and large neutral amino acid uptake site distributions demonstrated a much closer correlation to the [3H]-gabapentin binding site distribution. The correlation coefficients for D-[3H]-aspartate, L-[3H]-leucine and L-[3H]-isoleucine binding site distributions were 0.76, 0.90 and 0.88 respectively. 4. Concentration-dependent inhibition by unlabelled gabapentin of autoradiographic binding of L-[3H]-leucine and L-[3H]-isoleucine was observed, with non-specific binding levels being reached at concentrations between 10 and 100 microM. 5. Excitotoxic quinolinic acid lesion studies in rat brain caudate putamen and autoradiography were carried out for the amino acid uptake sites mentioned above. The resulting glial infiltration of the lesioned areas was visualized by autoradiography using the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor specific ligand [3H]-PK11195. A significant decrease in binding density in the lesioned area compared with sham-operated animals was observed for D-[3H]-aspartate, L-[3H]-leucine, L-[3H]-isoleucine and [3H]-gabapentin, whilst [3H]-PK11195 showed a significant increase in binding density indicative of glial infiltration into the lesioned area. These results suggest that the gabapentin binding site and the acidic and LNAA uptake site may be present on cell bodies of a neuronal population of cells. 6. From these studies it appears that [3H]-gabapentin, L-[3H]-leucine and L-[3H]-isoleucine bind to the same site in rat brain. The inhibition of [3H]-gabapentin binding by the LNAA uptake system-specific ligand, BCH, suggests that [3H]-gabapentin may label this uptake site, termed system-L. Conversely these ligands could be labelling a novel site that coincidentally has a similar structure-activity relationship to this uptake site. These results suggest a novel mechanistically relevant site of action for gabapentin and may enable further anti-epileptic agents of this type to be developed.
1. Gabapentin is a novel anticonvulsant with an unknown mechanism of action. Homogenate binding studies described elsewhere have suggested that [3H]-gabapentin binds to a site in brain similar to the large neutral amino acid (LNAA) uptake site, termed system-L. 2. This study describes an investigation into the uptake of [3H]-gabapentin into a crude synaptosomal preparation from cerebral cortex of rat brain. Characterization studies showed that [3H]-gabapentin is taken up into synaptosomes by a system that is similar to that responsible for the uptake of L-[3H]-leucine. This system is sodium-independent, temperature-sensitive and requires ATP for function. 3. Kinetic studies of [3H]-gabapentin uptake produced a Michaelis constant (KM = 160 microM) similar to that observed for L-[3H]-leucine (KM = 110.3 microM). Vmax values were 837.1 pmol mg-1 protein min-1 and 2.192 nmol mg-1 protein min-1 respectively. 4. Gabapentin and L-leucine mutually inhibit their uptake. Lineweaver-Burke plots of these data demonstrate that inhibition occurs by a competitive mechanism. Further to this the Dixon transformation of the data illustrates that these two substrates share a common uptake site by the similarity between their calculated Ki and KM values (gabapentin inhibition of L-[3H]-leucine uptake: Ki = 160 microM; L-leucine inhibition of [3H]-gabapentin uptake: Ki = 262 microM). 5. Studies into the effect of gabapentin, the system-L-specific ligand 2-(-)-endoamino-bicycloheptane-2-carboxylic acid (BCH), and the system-A-specific ligand alpha-(methyl-amino)-isobutyric acid (MeAIB), on the initial rate of uptake of [3H]-glycine, L-[3H]-glutamate, L-[3H]-glutamine, and L-[3H]-leucine were performed. At 100 microM, gabapentin significantly inhibited initial rate of uptake of [3H]-glycine (29%), L-[3H]-glutamate (22%) and L-[3H]-leucine (40%). 6. Gabapentin is taken up into synaptosomes by a system similar to system-L, responsible for the uptake of large neutral amino acids. Gabapentin will also inhibit the uptake of certain excitatory amino acids in this synaptosomal preparation. The implications of these findings for the mechanism of action for gabapentin are unclear. The data presented here may suggest an intracellular site for mechanism of action for this compound. Similarly changes in levels of amino acid pools may be involved in the mechanism of gabapentin's anticonvulsant action.
Observations are presented on nine selected patients with chronic upper limb demyelinating neuropathy to illustrate the range of manifestations that may be observed. In three, the involvement was purely motor, in five, mixed motor and sensory and, in one, virtually purely sensory; in seven the symptoms were unilateral and in two bilateral. The presence of reduced nerve conduction velocity and conduction block and the response to treatment in seven of the cases indicate that they represented examples of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) with focal involvement. This was confirmed by nerve biopsy in two cases. The presentation in one patient was accompanied by forearm swelling initially suspected of being a tumour but shown to be due to muscle hypertrophy. This was probably the consequence of recurrent muscle cramps and fasciculation and possibly neuromyotonia. The patient with predominant sensory involvement restricted to the upper limbs demonstrates that sensory CIDP can present focally. In one patient with monomelic motor and sensory involvement, nerve biopsy showed multifocal areas of hypertrophic demyelinating neuropathy distally in the ulnar nerve without inflammatory infiltration. This patient failed to respond to therapy. Response in the others was satisfactory, although one patient with a monomelic motor neuropathy showed a severe deterioration after being given corticosteroids; he subsequently improved with intravenous human immunoglobulin therapy.
The search for a better understanding of cognitive decline in man has lead to the use of increasingly complex procedures in animal research. The analysis of the data generated in such experiments has been greatly facilitated by the wider use of computer assisted techniques. These techniques can only be as good as the hypotheses they are used to test. Signal detection theory (SDT) provides a rational framework within which to work. The procedures are derived from human cognitive neuropsychology and are already used to some extent in primate but to a lesser degree in rodent research. The use of SDT offers two main advantages: first, a testable hypothesis as to the manner in which competing processes arrive at choice between various courses of action; second, the statistical procedures offer clear advantages over more traditional approaches by reducing the chances of misinterpretation. Though relatively easy to apply some care must be exercised in the protocol design and the choice of SDT indices if the full value of the approach is to be achieved. If experimental designs can be developed to include the appropriate use of SDT analysis; both the power of such protocols, and their value in the understanding of cognitive function, will provide a major step forward for animal-based research.
Neurotrophins regulate neuronal survival and phenotypic differentiation. Recent evidence also suggests a role in the modulation of synaptic activity. Using neuronal cell cultures from embryonic hippocampus, we previously found that application of brain-derived neurotrophic factor rapidly enhanced synaptic transmission. We now report that application of neurotrophin-4, another ligand for the trkB neurotrophin receptor, was equally effective in enhancing synaptic currents. In contrast, nerve growth factor, neurotrophin-3, basic fibroblast growth factor and epidermal growth factor did not share this action. Our results suggest that activation of trkB receptors plays a selective role in the regulation of synaptic efficacy in the hippocampus.
NF-kappa B is a potent transcriptional activator that resides in latent form in the cytoplasm complexed to its inhibitor I kappa B. Phosphorylation of I kappa B by protein kinase C (PKC) releases NF-kappa B, enabling its translocation to the nucleus. Since PKC can activate NF-kappa B and PKC is activated by long-term potentiation (LTP), we investigated NF-kappa B expression after hippocampal LTP induced in vivo. We first described the expression of the NF-kappa B subunits, p50 and p65, and I kappa B alpha mRNAs, in each cell field of the hippocampus. In other brain locations I kappa B alpha mRNA exhibited a more selective expression than p50 and p65. We then demonstrated specific NF-kappa B-like DNA-binding activity in hippocampal whole-cell extracts and in synaptosomes using electrophoretic mobility shift assays by the following criteria: (1) latent binding was revealed after deoxycholate treatment; (2) binding was competed off by unlabeled kappa B oligonucleotides; and (3) antibodies to either p50 or p65 blocked binding. Since p50 gene expression is auto-regulated by NF-kappa B, we used its expression as a reporter for NF-kappa B activity using quantitative in situ hybridization. Both p50 and p65 increased their expression in response to either LTP-inducing or low-frequency control stimulation, although the increase in p65 mRNA levels was greater after LTP than control stimulation. In contrast to p50 and p65, I kappa B alpha hybridization levels were not increased, but were inversely correlated with the magnitude of LTP. Since NF-kappa B subunit gene expression in the hippocampus is increased by augmented synaptic activity, NF-kappa B activation may contribute to alterations in target gene expression that accompany activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, but only in a combinatorial fashion with other transcription factors.
The stereociliary bundles of hair cells contain cross-linking extracellular filaments which have been suggested to play a role in mechanoelectrical transduction. To investigate the composition of these filaments, antibodies to the extracellular matrix molecules elastin and keratan sulphate have been used for light- and electron-microscopic immunocytochemistry of the guinea-pig organ of Corti. With the antibody to elastin, no immunoreactivity was found in hair bundles. This implies either that the epitope recognised by this antibody is not present in the links or that it is obscured. The antibody to keratan sulphate labelled the stereociliary bundles of both inner and outer hair cells but not supporting cells. The tips of the tallest stereocilia, especially on outer hair cells, the tips of the shorter stereocilia where the tip links attach to the stereociliary membrane, and the attachments of the lateral links, were labelled. This suggests that the links contain keratan sulphate proteoglycans, molecules which in other tissues are known to maintain structural integrity and fibrillar spacing, and to influence the microenvironment of the cell surface.
A prospective, longitudinal study of a low birthweight, preterm cohort examined the effects of maternal knowledge of child development and concepts of child rearing on the quality of home environment and on child cognitive and behavioral outcomes. Measures of maternal knowledge at 12 months were found to be significantly associated with the quality of the home environment, the number of child behavior problems, and to a small but significant extent child Stanford-Binet IQ at 36 months. Maternal characteristics were associated with both maternal knowledge and maternal behavior. Child characteristics, including birthweight, were not associated with maternal knowledge or concepts of development for most of the cohort. Subgroup analyses by race/ethnicity revealed a similar pattern of results. However, a measure of neonatal health status was shown to be significantly associated with cognitive outcome in the African-American subgroup at 24 and 36 months.
A questionnaire addressing issues related to electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) was administered to 165 undergraduate medical students in an urban hospital in India. Of various sources, the mass media contributed most to the students' knowledge about and attitudes toward the treatment. Senior and junior students differed little in their knowledge and attitudes. Many students believed that ECT is cruel and barbaric and that it occasions pain to the patient; however, few considered that it compromises thinking and reasoning, that it causes brain damage, that it is misused, that it is used to punish violent or uncooperative patients, that it is outmoded, or that it should be banned. Many students thought that the use of ECT should be governed by law. Myths and concerns about ECT were identified in a subset of students who expressed reluctance to receive ECT if indicated for themselves. There is a need to improve undergraduate medical education on ECT.
The prefrontal cortex plays an especially important role in human social-cognitive behavior. It has been difficult to quantify deficits in this domain in patients with frontal lobe lesions using standardized psychological instruments. We administered the Everyday Problem Solving Inventory (EPSI), which is composed of a range of scenarios depicting everyday social problems and their possible solutions, to a group of patients with frontal lobe lesions who were required to rate each of 4 possible solutions to each problem for their effectiveness. Our sample consisted of 27 normal controls (NCs), 33 patients with focal frontal lobe lesions (FLL), and 3 patients with frontal lobe dementia (FLD). The performance of the FLL patients on the EPSI instrument was also compared with their performance on traditional neuropsychological tests. The results indicated that the FLD patients' EPSI rank ordering of social problem solutions was uncorrelated with the performance of NCs and about half of the FLL patients EPSI rank orderings of solutions also varied substantially from those of the NCs. These same FLL patients also had the lowest scores, compared to FLL patients whose judgements on the EPSI were similar to that of the NCs, on a set of neuropsychological tasks sensitive to frontal lobe dysfunction. There was no obvious relationship between locus of lesion within the frontal lobes and performance on the EPSI. These results suggest that some patients with prefrontal lobe lesions may have impaired social judgement that can be directly revealed through the use of a conventional psychological inventory such as the EPSI.


Paired recording is a powerful and versatile tool to examine communication between and within neurones. This technique has provided new insights in studies of synaptic function and plasticity, of neuronal integration, and of the decoding of neuronal circuits. Recent studies using dual recordings in combination with morphology have successfully determined the number of transmitter release sites between synaptically connected neurones. Important progress in understanding the dynamics of signal transmission within individual cells has been made possible using infra-red microscopy, which permits dual recordings from visualized somatic and dendritic sites on a single neurone.
Inflammatory cell recruitment to the central nervous system (CNS) is a cardinal feature of physiological and pathological processes, including multiple sclerosis (MS). Despite recent progress, the soluble signals that attract inflammatory cells from the vascular compartment into the CNS parenchyma remain obscure. We favor the hypothesis that chemoattractant cytokines termed 'chemokines' are uniquely important for mediating leukocyte entry into CNS tissues during immune-mediated inflammation. Three lines of evidence supporting this hypothesis will be reviewed. The first regards expression of chemokines in animal models of immune-mediated CNS inflammation and in the human disease, multiple sclerosis. The second line of evidence involves interventional studies of chemokine blockade in such model disorders. The third line of evidence comprises function of chemokines in the CNS, as analysed in transgenic mice. Investigation of CNS chemokine function will enhance our understanding of leukocyte recruitment to the CNS and suggest therapeutic strategies for neurological disorders.
To investigate the molecular basis of head evolution, we searched for genes related to the Drosophila orthodenticle (otd) homeobox gene in the short-germ beetle Tribolium castaneum. Unexpectedly, we found that there are two otd-related genes in Tribolium, with predicted homeodomains highly similar to that of the single Drosophila gene. One of the two genes (Tc otd-1) is more related in both amino acid sequence and expression pattern to fruitfly otd. Tc otd-1 is expressed in a broad anterior stripe in the blastoderm embryo, suggesting a role in early head segmentation similar to that of the Drosophila gene. The second gene (Tc otd-2) is more similar in sequence to the otd-related genes isolated from different vertebrate species (the Otx gene family). Tc otd-2 is not transcribed in the blastoderm, but is expressed later in more limited subsets of cells in the anterior brain. Both Tribolium genes and the Drosophila gene are, unlike the vertebrate genes, also expressed at the developing ventral midline of the embryo. Our results are consistent with the idea that an otd/Otx gene specified anterior head structures in the last ancestor common to arthropods and vertebrates. Within the arthropod lineage, we propose that this gene acquired a function in cells at the developing midline prior to the duplication that generated the two Tribolium genes.
The adult head capsule of Drosophila forms primarily from the eye-antennal imaginal discs. Here, we demonstrate that the head primordium is patterned differently from the discs which give rise to the appendages. We show that the segment polarity genes hedgehog and wingless specify the identities of specific regions of the head capsule. During eye-antennal disc development, hedgehog and wingless expression initially overlap, but subsequently segregate. This regional segregation is critical to head specification and is regulated by the orthodenticle homeobox gene. We also show that orthodenticle is a candidate hedgehog target gene during early eye-antennal disc development.
Islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) is overexpressed relative to insulin under several experimental conditions relevant to diabetes mellitus, including the immediate phase (7 days) following induction of streptozotocin diabetes. In the present study, IAPP and insulin gene expression were examined in chronic streptozotocin diabetes (3 weeks) in rats. Quantitative in situ hybridization, determining grain areas and optical densities of mRNA labelling, revealed that IAPP and insulin expression were reduced at the islet level at both low and high streptozotocin doses, partly due to reduced beta-cell mass. In contrast, the cellular levels of IAPP mRNA were either increased or unaffected at the low and high streptozotocin doses, respectively, whereas those of insulin mRNA were unaffected or reduced. When dexamethasone was administered to rats given the low streptozotocin dose, IAPP expression was increased, whereas that of insulin was markedly reduced. Immunocytochemistry revealed that IAPP predominantly occurred in insulin cells and to a lesser extent in somatostatin cells at all treatments examined. Our findings demonstrate that IAPP and insulin gene expression are differentially regulated; the over-expression of IAPP relative to insulin is augmented when the beta-cell insult is aggravated, in our experiments represented by massive beta-cell destruction (high streptozotocin dose) or a combination of moderate beta-cell damage and peripheral insulin resistance (low streptozotocin dose and dexamethasone). An over-expression of IAPP relative to insulin may therefore be involved in diabetes pathogenesis, contributing to its metabolic perturbations, possibly through the capacity of IAPP to restrain insulin release and action and to form islet amyloid.
Cytoplasmic calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) changes evoked by adenosine 5(1)-triphosphate (ATP) were recorded in cultured individual Leydig cells within 10-18 h after cell dispersion. [Ca(2+)](i) was monitored using Fura-2AM loaded cells with a digital ratio imaging system. Five micromolars ATP induced biphasic [Ca(2+)](i) responses in most cells (94%,n=100), characterized by a fast increase from a basal level (1265 nMSE,n=60 cells) to a peak (5-7 times above basal levels) within seconds, followed by a slow decrease toward a plateau level (2-3 times above basal) within 5 min. The peak phase of the [Ca(2+)](i) response increased with ATP concentrations (1-100 M ATP) in a dose-dependent manner with an IC(50) of 5.91.2 M, and it desensitized in a reversible manner with repeated application of 5 M ATP at &lt;5-min intervals. The [Ca(2+)](i) peak response was dependent on Ca(2+) release from an intracellular pool, whereas the plateau phase was dependent on extracellular [Ca(2+)]. ATP did not appear to induce formation of nonspecific membrane pores, since stimulation for 10 min with ATP (10-100 M) in the presence of extracellular Lucifer yellow (LY) (5 mg/mL) did not result in dye loading of the cells. [Ca(2+)](i) transients were elicited by other adenosine nucleotides with an order of potencies (ATP&gt;Adenosine diphosphate [ADP]&gt;Adenosine&gt; Adenosine monophosphate [AMP]) that was compatible with the expression of P(2) receptors. [Ca(2+)](i) responses were suppressed by the purinergic P(2) receptor antagonist, suramin. These results provide functional evidence for the expression of purinergic P(2) receptors in Leydig cells.
It is becoming increasingly evident that the secretory activity of LHRH neurons is regulated not only by transsynaptic inputs but also by trophic molecules of glial and neuronal origin. The present experiments were undertaken to gain insights into the potential cell-cell mechanisms by which basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha), two growth factors produced in the hypothalamus, may affect LHRH neuronal function. Northern blot analysis showed that the LHRH-producing cell line GT1-7 contains the messenger RNA (mRNA) encoding the type 1 fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR-1) but not that encoding the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors, which mediates the biological actions of both TGF alpha and EGF. Ligand-induced receptor phosphorylation experiments demonstrated that GT1-7 cells possess biologically active FGFR-1s but not EGF receptors. Exposure of the cells to bFGF resulted not only in FGFR-1 tyrosine phosphorylation, but also in tyrosine phosphorylation of phospholipase C gamma, one of the initial enzymes in the intracellular signaling cascade initiated by FGFR activation. GT1-7 cells proliferated in response to this activation. Despite the presence of biologically active receptors, bFGF did not significantly stimulate release of the mature LHRH decapeptide. Instead, bFGF increased the steady-state levels of the mRNA encoding the LHRH precursor processing endoprotease PC2, with a time course comparable to that of phorbol esters, suggesting that, as shown in the companion paper, the actions of the growth factor on LHRH neurons involve facilitation of the initial step in LHRH prohormone processing. The increase in PC2 gene expression was not accompanied by changes in LHRH mRNA levels. Unlike these direct actions of bFGF on GT-1 cells, TGF alpha appears to act indirectly via astroglial intermediacy. Exposure of GT1-7 cells to TGF alpha or EGF failed to affect several parameters of cellular activity including LHRH release, LHRH and PC2 mRNA levels, and cell proliferation. In contrast, astrocyte culture medium conditioned by treatment with TGF alpha led to sustained stimulation of LHRH release with no changes in LHRH gene expression and a transient increase in PC2 mRNA levels. Although no definitive evidence for the presence of FGFR-1 in normal LHRH neurons could be obtained by either double immunohistochemistry or double in situ hybridization procedures, fetal LHRH neurons in primary culture responded to bFGF with neurite outgrowth. Thus, normal LHRH neurons may have an FGFR-1 content too low for detection by regular histochemical procedures, and/or detectable expression of the receptor may be confined to a much earlier developmental stage. The mitogenic effect of bFGF on GT1-7 cells supports this possibility and suggests a role for FGF in the cell proliferation events that precede acquisition of the LHRH neuronal phenotype. It appears that once this phenotype is established, bFGF may promote the differentiation of LHRH neurons. The results also suggest that the secretory capacity of LHRH neurons develops under a dual trophic influence, one on peptide processing exerted directly by bFGF on early neurons, and another on LHRH release, exerted by TGF alpha via the intermediacy of astroglial cells.
An example for the bidirectional exchange of activating signals between a pathogen and immunocompetent cells in the host is presented. Trypanosoma brucei, which include subspecies that cause African sleeping sickness, secrete a molecule that triggers lymphocytes to produce interferon (IFN)-gamma. We now report that proliferation of T. brucei is stimulated in axenic cultures by IFN-gamma. The growth-enhancing effect on the pathogen is inhibited by anti-IFN-gamma receptor (R) antibodies and does not occur after exposure to other cytokines, i.e. IFN-alpha, IFN-beta and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha. While rodent-pathogenic T. brucei strains are stimulated by rat IFN-gamma, human pathogenic strains are more potently stimulated by human IFN-gamma. Rat and human IFN-gamma can partially block each others effects. Mice with disrupted IFN-gamma genes have reduced parasitemia and prolonged survival, while the outcome is reversed in mice that lack the IFN-gamma R gene.
Inflammation of the central nervous system (CNS) in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) starts in the subarachnoid space (SAS) and spreads later to the adjacent CNS parenchyma. To characterize the nature of lesion-forming T cells in situ in more detail, T cells were isolated from the SAS and their surface phenotype and the nucleotide sequence of the junctional region of the T cell receptor (TCR) was determined and compared with those of the lymph node (LN) and spinal cord (SC) T cells. Characteristically, more than 70% of SAS TCR alpha beta + T cells isolated at the early stage of EAE lacked both CD4 and CD8 molecules, whereas those from LN and SC were either CD4+ or CD8+. Analysis of nucleotide sequences of the junctional region of TCR revealed that T cells bearing a sequence identical to that for encephalitogenic T cell clones were found in both SAS and SC. Furthermore, purified CD4-CD8- T cells expressed CD4 molecules after culture. At the same time, these T cells acquired reactivity to myelin basic protein and induced passive EAE in naive animals after adoptive transfer. Our results suggest that CD4-CD8- T cells in the SAS are precursors of lesion-forming T cells in the SC and that phenotype switching takes place during the process of T cell infiltration into the CNS parenchyma. The double-negative nature of these T cells may explain an escape of encephalitogenic T cells from negative selection in T cell differentiation.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) have been identified as survival factors for adult axotomized rat corticospinal neurons (CSN) in vivo. Axotomy of corticospinal neurons at the level of the internal capsule induced death of 46% of the CSN within the first week after axotomy. The surviving population of CSN displayed severe atrophy with mean cross-sectional area 49% of their unlesioned contralateral counterparts 7 days after axotomy. Using in situ hybridization to assess the expression of the receptors for the family of neurotrophins, we found trkB and trkC but not trkA mRNA expression in CSN. Intraparenchymal application of BDNF or NT-3 at doses of 12 microg/day for 7 days via an osmotic minipump fully prevented the axotomy-induced death of CSN. Interestingly, no neuronal atrophy was seen after BDNF application while NT-3 had only a partial effect on the size of the axotomized CSN. Nerve growth factor did not prevent death or cell atrophy, consistent with lack of trkA mRNA expression in these neurons. These findings show that BDNF and NT-3 are survival factors for adult rat CSN in vivo, and may contribute to the development of therapeutic strategies aiming at the prevention of CSN degeneration in human motor neuron diseases.

A subject lacking proprioceptive and tactile sensibility below the neck and a group of control subjects performed sequences of periodic finger taps involving a pattern of accentuation. The required intertap interval was 700 ms. In some situations, the taps were synchronized with the clicks of a metronome. Feedback conditions were manipulated by either allowing or not allowing the subjects to hear the taps and see their finger movements. We recorded the trajectory of the subjects' finger displacement in the vertical plane, and the force and moment of contact of the finger with the response key. The control subjects achieved precise timing of the finger taps by trading off downstroke onset for movement duration, e.g., they initiated shorter-duration tapping movements with a delay. This strategy did not vary depending on task demands (e.g., synchronization) or feedback conditions. The deafferented patient produced intertap intervals on average close to the required value. However, his tap timing was characterized by increased variability and severe distortion (lengthening) after the accentuated tap, regardless of feedback conditions. He did not manifest the compensatory strategy whereby, in control subjects, movement onset was adjusted to movement duration. Thus, such a strategy in controls seems to depend on intact proprioceptive and/or tactile information from the moving limb. Upon withdrawal of visual and acoustic feedback, the deafferented subject increased the force of the taps and the amplitude of tapping movements; his mean synchronization error with the metronome also increased. However, he did not lose correct phasing between the taps and the clicks of the metronome. These findings suggest that, under normal circumstances, sequential movements are timed by an internal timekeeper which paces sensory consequences relating to the occurrence of behaviorally important events (e.g., finger taps), and not the onset of the movements eliciting those events. In the synchronization task, the timekeeper may be phase locked to the periodic acoustic stimuli by direct entrainment. Feedback information may be needed, however, for keeping any synchronization error as small as possible.
The aim of the present study was to characterize the morphological and neurochemical differentiation of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons in human embryos, derived from elective first trimester abortions. Embryonic brain tissue was taken for analysis of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) by immunohistochemistry and Western blot, and for analysis of endogenous dopamine (A) content using HPLC-ED. TH expression was first detected at 3.5 weeks of gestational age (Carnegie stage 11) by immunohistochemical staining of the primordial sympathetic trunk along both sides of the neural tube. In sagittal sections of the intact 4.5-week-old embryo, a small, distinct population of rounded, densely packed TH-immunoreactive perikarya with short primary processes was seen in the midbrain. During the latter half of the first trimester, the number of TH-stained cells as well as the length and number of axonal processes projecting toward and into the developing neostriatum increased rapidly. At the end of the first trimester, varicose fibers could be detected in the striatal anlage. In order to verify that TH was the antigen recognized by the antibodies used for immunohistochemistry on human tissue specimens, mesencephalic tissue of 5-10 weeks gestation was analyzed by Western blot technique. A single, homogeneous band with the apparent molecular weight of approximately 60 kDa was clearly detected at 5 weeks of age. The amount of TH/mg total protein increased at least 10-fold between 5-10 weeks of gestation. For comparison, the mesencephalon and the forebrain/basal ganglia were analyzed for endogenous DA content using HPLC-ED. DA was first detected at 5.5 weeks of gestational age in both mid- and forebrain, and DA levels were found to increase exponentially from 7 to 7.5 weeks of age, reaching 4-5.5 ng DA/mesencephalon and 50-75 ng DA/g caudate nucleus-putamen anlage at the end of the first trimester. Together, morphological and biochemical data presented here constitute evidence for a very early appearance, migration, and differentiation as well as functional development of human mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons and their projections into target areas during the first trimester.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can be triggered and thereby allows the reversible manipulation of cortical information processing. A magnetic field is induced by a coil which produces a current which has an excitatory or inhibitory effect on the underlying cortex. Triggered TMS has been used to assess the visual system and lately the method was also applied to higher cognitive functions. The method has good spatial and temporal resolution and it can be combined with other neuroscience and experimental psychological methods. We provide an overview on TMS research and present the results of a study. Possible applications and limitations of the method are discussed with respect to basic research as well as diagnostic and therapeutic implications.
Mutations of the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) tumor suppressor gene have been linked to familial polyposis, an inherited predisposition to colon cancer, and a high percentage of sporadic colon adenomas. Although this gene is best known for its role in development of bowel neoplasms, in recent studies we have found that APC mRNA levels are greatly enriched in brain compared with peripheral tissues. To help define its role in the nervous system, in this study we have determined its cellular localization immunohistochemically in adult rat brain sections and have detected intense APC immunoreactivity in oligodendrocytes. Since prominent APC immunostaining is detected in cell bodies of mature oligodendrocytes, these antibodies may provide a useful addition to available oligodendrocyte markers. Although the cellular function of APC remains undefined, previous biochemical studies have demonstrated that APC is associated with catenins, cytoplasmic proteins involved in regulating cell-cell adhesion. We propose that, in addition to its critical role in ensuring normal maturation of colonic epithelial cells, the APC tumor suppressor protein also regulates the adhesive properties of oligodendrocytes.
Oligodendrocytes are the predominant iron-containing cells in the brain. Iron-containing oligodendrocytes are found near neuronal cell bodies, along blood vessels, and are particularly abundant within white matter tracts. Iron-positive cells in white matter are present from birth and eventually reside in defined patches of cells in the adult. These patches of iron-containing cells typically have a blood vessel in their center. Ferritin, the iron storage protein, is also expressed early in development in oligodendrocytes in a regional and cellular pattern similar to that seen for iron. Recently, the functionally distinct subunits of ferritin have been analyzed; only heavy (H)-chain ferritin is found in oligodendrocytes early in development. H-ferritin is associated with high iron utilization and low iron storage. Consistent with the expression of H-ferritin is the expression of transferrin receptors (for iron acquisition) on immature oligodendrocytes. Transferrin protein accumulation and mRNA expression in the brain are both dependent on a viable population of oligodendrocytes and may have an autocrine function to assist oligodendrocytes in iron acquisition. Although apparently the majority of oligodendrocytes in white matter tracts contain ferritin, transferrin, and iron, not all of them do, indicating that there is a subset of oligodendrocytes in white matter tracts. The only known function of oligodendrocytes is myelin production, and both a direct and indirect relationship exists between iron acquisition and myelin production. Iron is directly involved in myelin production as a required co-factor for cholesterol and lipid biosynthesis and indirectly because of its requirement for oxidative metabolism (which occurs in oligodendrocytes at a higher rate than other brain cells). Factors (such as cytokines) and conditions such as iron deficiency may reduce iron acquisition by oligodendrocytes and the susceptibility of oligodendrocytes to oxidative injury may be a result of their iron-rich cytoplasm. Thus, the many known phenomena that decrease oligodendrocyte survival and/or myelin production may mediate their effect through a final common pathway that involves disruptions in iron availability or intracellular management of iron.
The traditional approach to rehabilitating patients after cerebrovascular accidents encourages the patient to use only the unaffected side for all activities. This article presents the Bobath approach, which focuses on patients using both sides to regain former capabilities. The rationale and implementation of this method are outlined so that the home care nurse can learn how to use this method, used so commonly by rehabilitative therapists.
Previous studies demonstrated that stimulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid B (GABA(B)) receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarius of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) elicited a larger increase in arterial pressure compared with control Wistar-Kyoto rats. Since stimulation of GABA(B) receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarius attenuates cardiovascular responses evoked by electrical stimulation of the aortic depressor nerve in normotensive rats and there is evidence of a central neural attenuation of aortic depressor nerve-evoked responses in SHR, we conducted studies to test the hypothesis that enhanced stimulation of GABA(B) receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarius in SHR is responsible for the attenuation of the aortic depressor nerve-evoked responses. Electrical stimulation of the left aortic depressor nerve resulted in frequency-dependent decreases in arterial pressure, heart rate, and splanchnic sympathetic nerve activity in urethane-anesthetized control rats. These responses were not significantly altered by injection of the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP 35348 into the ipsilateral nucleus tractus solitarius. The responses evoked by aortic depressor nerve stimulation were attenuated in SHR. This attenuation was particularly apparent with more prolonged periods (&gt;15 seconds) of high-frequency (25-Hz) stimulation, with the depressor and sympathetic nerve responses diminishing during the course of stimulation. This time- and frequency-dependent attenuation of baroreceptor-evoked depressor responses was reversed by injection of CGP 35348 into the ipsilateral nucleus tractus solitarius. Rats made hypertensive by treatment with deoxycorticosterone plus salt did not have attenuated aortic depressor nerve-evoked responses. These results suggest that alterations in GABA b-mediated neural transmission in the nucleus tractus solitarius contribute to the attenuation of the baroreceptor reflex observed in SHR.
Tilt sensors, or inclinometers have been investigated for the control of Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) to improve the gait of persons who had a stroke or incomplete spinal cord injury (SCI). Different types of tilt sensors were studied for their characteristics and their performance in measuring the angular displacement of leg segments during gait. Signal patterns of the lower leg with inertial tilt sensors were identified with control subjects and subjects with footdrop who are being stimulated during level walking. To minimize acceleration responses when the foot swings or hits the ground, we use low-pass filtering (1.5-2 Hz). A finite state approach allows the sensor fixed on the shank to effectively detect the step intention in a population of stroke and incomplete SCI subjects and to control the FES. When the lower leg tilts backward, the common peroneal nerve is stimulated to bring the foot up and forward. We have designed a miniature footdrop stimulator with a magnetoresistive tilt sensor built in, so no external sensor cables are required. The thresholds to turn the stimulator on and off can be adjusted, as well as the maximum period of stimulation and the minimum interval between periods of stimulation. This device features several important advantages over traditional AFO's or stimulators controlled by foot switches. Initial trials with stroke and SCI subjects have demonstrated substantial gait improvement for some subjects, while most liked the good cosmesis and ease of using the device with a tilt sensor.
A drug design strategy to non-peptide small molecule antagonists of neuropeptides is described that targets the molecular diversity which exists in the 'privileged' data set of the physico-chemical properties represented by the side-chains of the 20 genetically encoded amino acids. The strategy is exemplified by the design of a selective and high affinity cholecystokinin CCK-A antagonist PD 140548, CCK-B antagonist CI-988 (formerly PD 134308) tachykinin NK-1 antagonist PD 154075 and NK-2 antagonist Cam-2291. The NK-3 antagonists, PD 157672 and the non-peptide PD 161182, were developed from an information-rich dipeptide library constructed from 256 N-protected dipeptides and 64 hydrophobic biased dipeptides.

The role so far ascribed to intracellular CuZn superoxide dismutase is that of an intracellular scavenger of oxygen radicals. However, other functions of cytosolic CuZn superoxide dismutase have been hypothesized. For example, CuZn superoxide dismutase incubated with rat hepatocyte cells in culture inhibits 3-hydroxy-3methylglutaryl CoA reductase, thereby reducing cholesterol synthesis. We recently demonstrated the presence of surface membrane receptors for CuZn superoxide dismutase, suggesting possible autocrine or paracrine activities. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether cytosolic CuZn superoxide dismutase can be secreted by human hepatocarcinoma and fibroblast cells lines. Proteins in human hepatocellular carcinoma (Hep G2) cells and human fibroblasts were biosynthetically labelled with [35S]-cysteine; then cell lysates and media were immunoprecipitated with rabbit polyclonal anti-human CuZn superoxide dismutase antibodies and separated by 12% polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Both Hep G2 cells and human fibroblasts produce and secrete CuZn superoxide dismutase which was detectable in cells and medium as a single protein band with the same electrophoretic mobility as human erythrocyte CuZn superoxide dismutase. These data suggest that CuZn superoxide dismutase, an enzyme thus far considered to be located exclusively intracellularly is secreted by at least two cell lines. This is consistent with autocrine or paracrine roles for CuZn superoxide dismutase.
In a model of astrogliosis in vitro, cultured cortical astrocytes were triggered into a functionally reactive state by an immobilized fragment of the beta-amyloid peptide. Induced astrocytes produced an extracellular matrix that inhibited the outgrowth of embryonic CNS axons. Within the extracellular matrix deposited by reactive astrocytes, we found an overall increase in the deposition of chondroitin sulphate that accounted for the inhibition. Specifically, we have detected an increased biosynthesis of a small chondroitin/heparan sulphate proteoglycan that is a potent inhibitor of axon outgrowth. We further suggest that this proteoglycan, or related molecules yet to be discovered, may play a role in gliosis-mediated regenerative failure of CNS axons.
Three hundred and forty-one consecutive impotent patients were evaluated for the presence of polyneuropathy (PNP) by neurophysiological and psychophysical tools, including nerve conduction and quantitative sensory tests (thermal and vibratory). PNP was present in 38% of diabetics, and 10% of non diabetics. Overall, PNP was found in 19% of impotent patients. PNP is relatively common among impotent patients, and might play a causative role. Patients judged 'neurogenic' and those judged 'vasculogenic', based on nocturnal tumescence test (NPT) and vasoactive drug injection tests, had very similar rates of PNP (21 and 23%, respectively). Thus it is suggested that the vasoactive drug injection test does not serve in discriminating neurogenic from non-neurogenic impotence. NPT, however, faithfully discriminates psychogenic from organic impotence, as far as PNP is involved, since a very low percentage of patients with normal NPT had PNP.
Molluscan neurons and muscle cells express transient (T-type like) and sustained LVA calcium channels, as well as transient and sustained HVA channels. In addition weakly voltage sensitive calcium channels are observed. In a number of cases toxin or dihydropyridine sensitivity justifies classification of the HVA currents in L, N or P-type categories. In many cases, however, pharmacological characterization is still preliminary. Characterization of novel toxins from molluscivorous Conus snails may facilitate classification of molluscan calcium channels. Molluscan preparations have been very useful to study calcium dependent inactivation of calcium channels. Proposed mechanisms explain calcium dependent inactivation through direct interaction of Ca2+ with the channel, through dephosphorylation by calcium dependent phosphatases or through calcium dependent disruption of connections with the cytoskeleton. Transmitter modulation operating through various second messenger mediated pathways is well documented. In general, phosphorylation through PKA, cGMP dependent PK or PKC facilitates the calcium channels, while putative direct G-protein action inhibits the channels. Ca2+ and cGMP may inhibit the channels through activation of phosphodiesterases or phosphatases. Detailed evidence has been provided on the role of sustained LVA channels in pacemaking and the generation of firing patterns, and on the role of HVA channels in the dynamic changes in action potentials during spiking, the regulation of the release of transmitters and hormones, and the regulation of growth cone behavior and neurite outgrowth. The accessibility of molluscan preparations (e.g. the squid giant synapse for excitation release studies, Helisoma B5 neuron for neurite and synapse formation) and the large body of knowledge on electrophysiological properties and functional connections of identified molluscan neurons (e.g. sensory neurons, R15, egg laying hormone producing cells, etc.) creates valuable opportunities to increase the insight into the functional roles of calcium channels.
Because hearing is accomplished by the brain (with neural input from the cochlea), presbyacusis can be ultimately accounted for by changes in brain activity that accompany aging. The anatomic and physiologic changes that accompany aging are of two basic types: the central effects of biological aging (CEBA) and the central effects of peripheral pathology (CEPP). Research using inbred mice and other animal models has provided insights into both CEPP and CEBA, and some implications of this research are reviewed, including the following. Age-related cochlear pathology results in changes in how frequency is &quot;mapped&quot; in the central auditory system (CAS), especially at higher anatomic levels, and this has potentially negative consequences for hearing. Aging and/or age-related hearing loss may impair neural inhibition in the CAS. CEPP may result in abnormalities in neural responses involved in binaural hearing and cause exaggerated &quot;masking&quot; of neural responses by noise. The extent of age-related anatomic change (CEBA and CEPP) varies among CAS subdivisions and accelerates during the terminal phase of life. Genes have been found to influence the time course and severity of presbyacusis as well as the role dietary restriction plays in ameliorating age-related hearing loss in mice.

Retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) was used to study the localisation of neurons that innervate the lacrimal gland of the cynomolgous monkey. WGA-HRP-labelled neurons were localised in the ipsilateral trigeminal, superior cervical and ciliary ganglia and in the ipsilateral and contralateral pterygopalatine ganglia. In the trigeminal ganglion WGA-HRP-labelled somata were found in the ophthalmic part (18%) and the maxillary part (5%). Identification of labelled neurons in the ciliary and pterygopalatine ganglia indicates a dual parasympathetic innvervation of the lacrimal gland. There is no known pathway to account for the contralateral location or pterygopalatine neurons. These novel findings are incorporated in a concept of a neural control mechanism for the lacrimal gland.
A database model for structure and access of theoretical medical knowledge is presented. The basic principle is the organization of knowledge in three dimensions: Each topic--first dimension--is explained with media--second dimension--in different versions of varying details--third dimension--suitable for different users. Every topic is one database entry. Topics are interconnected with heading and sub-topics (tree structure) and to logically related topics (cross references). Access follows the 3D-concept with initial access by topic, by media, or user specific, and with intra-unit access to related topics, media, and user specific versions. The model is discussed and possible implementations are described.
Rosen argues that the eye movements experienced by Shapiro during the incident leading to her development of eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) could not, as she later inferred, have been saccadic. The present author disputes Rosen's conclusion by showing that his arguments are based on a faulty understanding of the nature of saccadic eye movements or are irrelevant to Shapiro's claim.
Transmembrane ligands can be internalized across cell boundaries into receptor-expressing cells. In the developing Drosophila eye imaginal disc, the bride of sevenless transmembrane protein (boss) is expressed on the surface of R8 cells. After internalization into neighboring R7 cells, the boss protein accumulates in multivesicular bodies. In a search for genes that affect this cell-type-specific pattern of boss endocytosis, we found that mutations in the hook gene inhibit the accumulation of boss in multivesicular bodies of R7 cells. In addition, hook flies exhibit pleiotropic phenotypes including abnormal bristle morphology and eye degeneration. The wild-type-pattern of boss endocytosis was restored in hook mutants by a genomic rescue fragment containing the hook gene or by a hook cDNA expressed in R7 cells under control of a sevenless (sev) enhancer. The hook gene encodes a novel cytoplasmic protein of 679 amino acids with a central coiled-coil domain of some 200 amino acids. Truncated, epitope-tagged hook proteins coimmunoprecipitated the full-length protein, indicating dimerization mediated by the coiled-coil domain. The hook protein localizes to vesicular structures that are part of the endocytic compartment. The requirement of the hook protein in R7 cells for the accumulation of boss protein in multivesicular bodies, and the localization of the hook protein to endocytic vesicles indicate that the hook gene encodes a novel component of the endocytic compartment that plays an important role in the endocytosis of transmembrane ligands or their transport to multivesicular bodies.
Tau is a neuronal microtubule-associated protein that appears to function in the formation and maintenance of axons by influencing microtubule organisation. Tau is a phosphoprotein and is more heavily phosphorylated in fetal than in adult brain, and is also hyperphosphorylated in Alzheimer's disease where it forms the major component of paired helical filaments (PHFs). Tau phosphorylation probably modulates microtubule dynamics since in vitro, phosphorylated tau has a reduced affinity for microtubules and is less potent at promoting microtubule assembly. In order to understand how phosphorylation effects cellular microtubule organisation, we studied 3T3 and CHO cells transfected with tau and the tau kinase GSK-3 beta. Tau transfected cells displayed prominent bundles of microtubules that did not appear to be nucleated by a microtubule-organising centre. Co-transfection of tau with GSK-3 beta led to increased phosphorylation of tau and also to a reduction in microtubule bundling such that the microtubule network in many of the tau/GSK-3 beta transfected cells appeared similar to non-transfected interphase cells. Transfection of a mutant tau, in which five of the known GSK-3 beta targeted phosphorylation sites were mutated to alanine so as to preclude phosphorylation, also induced microtubule bundling. However, co-transfection of this mutant with GSK-3 beta did not diminish the bundling effect. Biochemical analyses of microtubule and cytosolic fractions from the transfected cells demonstrated that GSK-3 beta-mediated phosphorylation of tau reduced its affinity for microtubules. These results suggest that phosphorylation of tau by GSK-3 beta modulates its ability to organise microtubules into ordered arrays such as are found in axons.
The localization and distribution of nitric oxide synthase in the hypothalamus have been studied with an immunohistochemical technique using antibodies to neuronal rat nitric oxide synthase. Subsequent double-labeling experiments examined the colocalization patterns of nitric oxide synthase and several peptides. Our results demonstrate a widespread occurrence of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive nerve cell bodies and processes throughout the hypothalamus, especially in various parts of the preoptic region, in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei, the lateral hypothalamic area, the ventromedial and dorsomedial nuclei, the arcuate nucleus and various parts of the mammillary region. Double labeling experiments showed that nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity coexists with substance P-like immunoreactivity in the medial preoptic area, with oxytocin-, cholecystokinin-and galanin message-associated peptide-like immunoreactivity in the supraoptic nucleus, with enkephalin, oxytocin- and corticotropin releasing factor-like immunoreactivity in the paraventricular nucleus and with enkephalin-like immunoreactivity in the arcuate nucleus. Furthermore, in the ventromedial nucleus, nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity coexisted with enkephalin-, substance P-, and somatostatin-like immunoreactivity, and in the dorsomedial nucleus with enkephalin-, galanin message-associated peptide-and substance P-like immunoreactivity. In the mammillary region nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity coexisted with enkephalin-, cholecystokinin-, and substance P-like immunoreactivity. Among these neuropeptides, enkephalin and substance P were most frequently found in nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons. We conclude that nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons contain neuropeptides in various parts of the hypothalamus, and that nitric oxide in the hypothalamus may be involved in a variety of neuroendocrine and autonomic functions.
The present study was undertaken to (1) explore the cortical nitric oxide (NO)-system during postnatal development and (2) to see whether or not the NO-system reacts differentially after neonatal and adult lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex. Three aspects of the NO-system were studied, i.e., NADPH-diaphorase (NADPH-d) activity, sodium nitroprusside (SNP)- and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-stimulated cGMP-immunoreactivity (cGMP-IR). It was shown that: (1) the development of NADPH-d activity containing cells is continued in the period from P6 until P21; (2) during the same period, large developmental changes take place in basal, and SNP- or NMDA-stimulated cGMP-IR in the cortex. These changes are regionally specific and follow the general cortical developmental pattern; and (3) aspiration lesions do not induce major changes in the distribution of NADPH-d activity or cGMP-IR, either basal, SNP- or NMDA-stimulated.
The effect of inhibition of 3',5'-phosphodiesterase (PDE) activity on the cGMP accumulation was studied in control and nitric oxide (NO) stimulated hippocampal slices incubated in vitro using immunohistochemical visualisation of cGMP. Isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX) was used as a non-selective PDE inhibitor and zaprinast was used as a selective inhibitor of cGMP-specific PDE activity. In the absence of PDE inhibitors cGMP-immunoreactivity (cGMP-IR) was found in blood vessel walls only. After incubation with the NO-donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP) cGMP-IR was found in a few isolated varicose fibres which were distributed throughout the slice. Incubation in the presence of either 1 mM IBMX or 10 microM zaprinast resulted in cGMP-IR in small numbers of varicose fibres distributed throughout the hippocampal slice. SNP in combination with IBMX resulted in cGMP-IR in small numbers multitude of varicose fibres throughout the slice; occasionally cell somata were observed. After incubation with SNP and zaprinast cGMP-IR was found in varicose fibres, although with a more restricted distribution and less numerous than in the presence of IBMX. In the latter combination, varicose fibres were observed predominantly in the CA2/CA3 region and in the stratum lacunosum molecular of the hippocampus, and cell somata were occasionally observed throughout the hippocampus. The differential distribution of cGMP-IR in the presence of different PDE inhibitors is consistent with the notion that there are regional differences in the localization of cGMP hydrolyzing enzymes in the hippocampus.

Many studies have found that stimuli can be discriminated more accurately at attended locations than at unattended locations, and such results have typically been taken as evidence for the hypothesis that attention operates by allocating limited perceptual processing resources to attended locations. An alternative proposal, however, is that attention acts to reduce uncertainty about target location, thereby increasing accuracy by decreasing the number of noise sources. To distinguish between these alternatives, we conducted 6 spatial cuing experiments in which target location uncertainty was eliminated. Despite the absence of uncertainty, target discriminations were more accurate at the attended location, consistent with resource allocation models. These cue validity effects were observed under a broad range of conditions, including central and peripheral cuing, but were absent at very short cue-target delay intervals.
By 24 h after mechanical trauma to the cerebral cortex, astroglial reaction begins and injury sites are infiltrated by activated mononuclear phagocytes derived from blood-borne monocytes and endogenous microglia. There is little information about cellular interactions between astrocytes and leukocytes during this process. We previously showed that murine astrocytes produce chemokines including monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. In this study, we asked whether astrocytes produce MCP-1 in the absence of immune mediated inflammation. To address this question, we analyzed the time course and cellular source of MCP-1 in mouse brain after penetrating mechanical injury, with particular focus on early time points before histologic detection of infiltrating mononuclear phagocytes. We observed sharply increased steady state levels of MCP-1 mRNA within 3 h after nitrocellulose membrane stab or implant injury to the adult mouse brain, and MCP-1 protein elevations were documented at 12 h postinjury. In situ hybridization combined with immunohistochemistry for the glial fibrillary acidic protein astrocyte marker showed that astrocytes were the cellular source of MCP-1 mRNA at these early time points after mechanical brain injury. Stab injury to the neonatal brain evoked neither MCP-1 expression nor astrogliosis. These results demonstrate that chemokine gene expression comprises one component of the astrocyte activation program. The data are consistent with a role for MCP-1 in the central nervous system inflammatory response to trauma.
Presentations from the Seventh Neuroscience of HIV Infection assembly are highlighted. AIDS dementia was first identified 10 years ago, but there have been few advances in its treatment. AIDS research has been devoted to the immune system disorder, and neurologic problems are less straightforward to address. AIDS dementia is a widely feared disorder; it strips patients of their dignity and complicates their care. Tests used to determine early symptoms of psychomotor dysfunction are discussed. Novel treatments used to treat dementia, myopathy, depression, and pain are examined.
CATH.a is a central nervous system (CNS) catecholaminergic cell line derived from a transgenic mouse carrying the SV40 T antigen oncogene under the transcriptional control of regulatory elements from the rat tyrosine hydroxylase gene (Suri et al., 1993). CATH.a cells express several differentiated neuronal characteristics including medium and light chain neurofilament proteins, synaptophysin, tyrosine hydroxylase, and dopamine beta-hydroxylase; they synthesize dopamine and norepinephrine. Conversely, they do not express glial-specific fibrillary acidic protein. To establish definitively that CATH.a cells are of neuronal origin, we characterized the repertoire of voltage-gated inward currents expressed by CATH.a cells. Such inward currents are necessary for neuronal excitability. We report that all CATH.a cells possess a tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium current (peak amplitude = 590 +/- 319 pA) and 68% possess a high voltage-activated calcium current (peak amplitude = 175 +/- 67 pA). Pharmacological analyses suggest that individual cells express varying levels of L- and N-type calcium current, but no P-type current. In addition, in 55% of the cells with a calcium current, about a half of this current is resistant to selective antagonists for L- and N-type currents, suggesting that another calcium current exists in these CATH.a cells which is not L-, N-, or P-type. The heterogeneous pattern of current detected persisted in several CATH. a subclones, suggesting that factors other than genetic variability influence current expression. The demonstration that CATH.a cells express these currents indicates that they have excitable membrane properties characteristic of neurons. Although many peripheral nervous system (PNS) cell lines exist, very few CNS cell lines with differentiated neuronal properties exist. Since the CATH.a cells can be grown continuously in large amounts, they may be useful for purifying, characterizing, and/or cloning various neuronal-specific molecules and thereby may add to our understanding of CNS catecholaminergic neurons.
In the present study, a moving room paradigm was used that characterized the developmental progression of the effects of visual perturbations on stance control in subjects (N = 39) from 5 months to 10 years of age. Kinematic (probability of recording sway, magnitude of sway response) and electromyographic (probability and patterns of muscle activation, muscle onset latencies) data were found that suggested that visual flow simulating sway activates organized postural muscle responses and results in subsequent sway in standing infants as young as 5 months of age, well before they are able to stand independently. In new walkers, there was an increase in the magnitude of the effect of the visual perturbation, suggesting a possible increase in reliance on visual information. The magnitude of sway decreased to very low levels in older children and adults. The large-amplitude responses observed in the youngest age groups may indicate an inability to switch from an unreliable to a reliable source of perceptual information or an inability to modulate the responses produced following the perturbations. With increasing age and experience, the ability to resolve the conflict increased, with adult subjects demonstrating little sway response.
Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT,E.C.2.3.1.6) catalyzes the synthesis of acetylcholine, and is considered to be a phenotypic marker specific for cholinergic neurons. In situ hybridization using a nonradioactive cRNA probe identified a large number of cell bodies expressing ChAT mRNA in the cortices of wild-type Drosophila melanogaster brain. Strong labeling is remarkable in the cortical regions associated with the lamina and antennal lobe, and also in the median neurosecretory (MNS) cells within pars intercerebralis, suggesting that some of the lamina monopolar neurons, antennal interneurons, and MNS cells are cholinergic. In two temperature-sensitive mutant alleles, Chats1 and Chats2, most hybridization signal disappears after exposure to a restrictive temperature (30 degrees C). Loss of signal is especially evident in the optic lobes. Some centrally located neurons, however, continue to express ChAT mRNA and are thus likely to have expression controlled in a different way than the majority of cholinergic neurons. Immunocytochemistry, using a ChAT specific monoclonal antibody, identified two sets of paired neurons located in the posterior cortex of the brain. These neurons persist in ChAT immunoreactivity even in the Chats mutants exposed to restrictive temperature. ChAT mRNA is also detectable in the corresponding cell bodies when Chats mutants are held at restrictive temperature. Our findings demonstrate some specific cholinergic neurons in Drosophila brain, and indicate that ChAT expression is differentially regulated in particular sets of cholinergic neurons.
The family of calpains (CANP or calcium activated neutral proteases) and their endogenous inhibitor calpastatin have been implicated in many neural functions; however, functional distinctions between the major calpain isoforms, calpain I and II, have not been clearly established. In the present study we analyzed the gene expression patterns for calpain I and II and calpastatin in mouse brain and spinal cord by measuring both their mRNA and protein levels. Our results show that the overall mRNA level measured by competitive reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction for calpain II is 15-fold higher and for calpastatin is three-fold higher than that for calpain I. Overall, both mRNA and protein expression levels for the calpains and calpastatin showed no significant difference between the spinal cord and the brain. The cellular distributions of mRNA for calpain I or calpastatin, measured by in situ hybridization, are relatively uniform throughout the brain. In contrast, calpain II gene expression is selectively higher in certain neuron populations including pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus and the deep neocortical layers, Purkinje cells of cerebellum, and motor neurons of the spinal cord. The motor neurons were the most enriched in calpain message. Motor neurons possessed 10-fold more calpain II mRNA than any other spinal cord cell type. The differential distribution of the two proteases in the brain and the spinal cord at the mRNA level indicates that the two calpain genes are differentially regulated, suggesting that they play different physiological roles in neuronal activities and that they may participate in the pathogenesis of certain regional neurological degenerative diseases.
The effect of chronic subcutaneous infusion of sodium azide on the activity of mitochondrial respiratory chain enzymes was investigated in Sprague-Dawley rats. Treatment with approximately 1 mg/kg/h sodium azide induced chronic, partial inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase, whereas the activities of respiratory complexes I and III were not significantly affected. The inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase was evident by 7 days after infusion began, and the effect was stable for at least 3 weeks. The selectivity of azide for cytochrome c oxidase is discussed in the context of other findings of azide effects on enzymes. The results of the present study indicate that the sodium azide infusion paradigm described here provides a useful tool for the evaluation of selective and stable cytochrome oxidase inhibition in vivo.
A 45Ca2+ influx assay has been used to investigate the pharmacology of stably expressed recombinant human NR1a/NR2A and NR1a/NR2B N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Inhibition of glutamate-stimulated 45Ca2+ influx by six glycine-site antagonists and inhibition of glycine-stimulated 45Ca2+ influx by five glutamate-site antagonists revealed no significant differences between affinity values obtained for NR1a/NR2A and NR1a/NR2B receptors. The polyamine site agonist spermine showed differential modulation of glutamate- and glycine-stimulated 45Ca2+ influx for recombinant NMDA receptors, inhibiting and stimulating 45Ca2+ influx into cells expressing NR1a/NR2A receptors (IC50 = 408 microM) and NR1a/NR2B receptors (EC50 = 37.3 microM), respectively. The antagonist ifenprodil was selective for NR1a/NR2B receptors (IC50 = 0.099 microM) compared with NR1a/NR2A receptors (IC50 = 164 microM). The effects of putative polyamine site antagonists, redox agents, ethanol, and Mg2+ and Zn2+ ions were also compared between NR1a/NR2A and NR1a/NR2B receptors. This study demonstrates the use of 45Ca2+ influx as a method for investigating the pharmacology of the numerous modulatory sites that regulate the function of recombinant human NMDA receptors stably expressed in L(tk-) cells.
The effects of systemic administration of the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) 5-HT1A receptor agonists flesinoxan and 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin on extracellular 5-HT were measured using microdialysis probes in both median raphe nucleus and dorsal hippocampus. Both 5-HT1A agonists dose-dependently decreased dialysate 5-HT levels from both brain regions. The effects of flesinoxan in the median raphe (0.3 mg/kg) and dorsal hippocampus (1.0 mg/kg) could be blocked by the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridyl)cyclohexane carboxamide trihydrochloride (WAY 100,635) at a dose of 0.05 mg/kg s.c. The antagonist itself had no effect at this dosage. Local perfusion of flesinoxan for 30 min through the dialysis probe into the median raphe region at concentrations of 20, 100, and 1,000 nM resulted in a significant decrease in dialysate 5-HT content from both regions. The effect of 100 nM flesinoxan could be blocked by coperfusion of 1,000 nM WAY 100,635. The data indicate that flesinoxan is a potent 5-HT1A receptor agonist and also support the notion that somatodendritic 5-HT1A autoreceptors regulate both terminal and somatodendritic 5-HT release.
Cultures of neonatal rat superior cervical ganglia (SCG) were used to test the hypothesis that the cytokines leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) control GTP cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH) gene expression and 5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) content as traits of the noradrenergic phenotype. Treatment for 7 days with 1 ng/ml of LIF was found to produce the characteristic switch in the SCG neurotransmitter phenotype reported by others, as evidenced by a 60% decline in tyrosine hydroxylase. (TH) activity and a 75% increase in choline acetyltransferase activity. This LIF treatment paradigm decreased BH4 levels in a concentration-dependent manner, with a maximal decline of 60% observed at 1 ng/ml. Analysis of the time course of this response indicated that LIF decreased BH4 levels by 60% following 3-7 days of treatment. Treatment of cultures with CNTF (2 ng/ml) resulted in a decline in BH4 levels that was of equal magnitude and followed the same time course as that produced by LIF. The LIF-dependent decline in BH4 levels resulted from a reduction in GTPCH enzyme activity, which decreased by 75% following 7 days of treatment. Nuclease protection assays of RNA extracted from cells treated for 7 days with 2 ng/ml of LIF or CNTF detected a 78-96% reduction in GTPCH mRNA content relative to beta-actin mRNA content. Concomitant decreases in TH and GTPCH gene expression in response to LIF or CNTF demonstrate a coordinated regulation of gene expression for this BH4-dependent enzyme and the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of its essential cofactor, BH4. Moreover, these results indicate that GTPCH gene expression in SCG neurons should be regarded as a trait of the noradrenergic phenotype.
The aim of this study was to elucidate the mechanisms by which retinal cells release endogenous amino acids in response to ascorbate/Fe(2+)-induced oxidative stress, as compared with chemical hypoxia or ischemia. In the absence of stimulation, oxidative stress increased the release of aspartate, glutamate, taurine, and GABA only when Ca2+ was present. Under hypoxia or ischemia, the release of aspartate, glutamate, glycine, alanine, taurine, and GABA increased mainly by a Ca(2+)-independent mechanism. The increased release observed in N-methyl-D-glucamine+ medium suggested the reversal of the Na+-dependent amino acid transporters. Upon oxidative stress, the release of aspartate, glutamate, and GABA, occurring through the reversal of the Na(+)-dependent transporters, was reduced by about 30%, although the release of taurine was enhanced. An increased release of [3H]arachidonic acid and free radicals seems to affect the Na+-dependent transporters for glutamate and GABA in oxidized cells. All cell treatments increased [Ca2+]i (1.5 to twofold), although no differences were observed in membrane depolarization. The energy charge of cells submitted to hypoxia or oxidative stress was not changed. However, ischemia highly potentiated the reduction of the energy charge, as compared with hypoglycemia or hypoxia alone. The present work is important for understanding the mechanisms of amino acid release that occur in vivo upon oxidative stress, hypoxia, or ischemia, frequently associated with the impairment of energy metabolism.
Activated microglia, often associated with neuritic amyloid plaques in the Alzheimer's disease brain, are likely to contribute to the progression of the disease process, e.g., by releasing neurotoxic reactive oxygen and/or nitrogen intermediates. In the present study, whether the amyloid beta peptide (A beta), the principal constituent of amyloid plaques, can stimulate microglial respiratory burst activity and/or microglial production of nitric oxide was examined. Using neonatal rat microglial cultures as a model, it was found that neither the spontaneous release of nitric oxide nor the lipopolysaccharide-induced production of nitric oxide was altered in cultures previously incubated with synthetic A beta (1-40) for 24 h. In addition, no direct stimulatory effect of A beta (1-40) on the respiratory burst activity was observed. Nevertheless, concomitant with an increase in the number of responsive cells, a profound priming of the phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate-evoked production of superoxide anion was observed in A beta (1-40)-treated cultures. Thus, both the maximal rate and the total phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate-induced production of superoxide appeared to be statistically significantly higher as compared with untreated cultures. It is concluded that, as far as activation of the microglial respiratory burst is concerned, A beta(1-40) may merely act as a priming rather than a triggering stimulus.
In the present study we applied an improved nerve growth factor (NGF) extraction method to examine the effects of denervation and sympathetic decentralization on NGF levels in vascular tissue. Adult male Wistar Kyoto rats underwent mesenteric arterial denervation or splanchnic nerve transection. Four days after operation, animals were killed, and the mesenteric artery and coeliac-superior mesenteric ganglia were removed. The arterial adventitia was stripped from the media to measure NGF levels in nerve and smooth muscle separately. A high concentration of NGF was detected in the normal artery, 90% of which was in the adventitial layer. Surgical denervation significantly reduced the NGF levels in the artery and ganglia by 78 and 71%, respectively. However, within the artery the level of NGF was reduced in the adventitia but not in the media. Thus, the large reduction of NGF content resulted from the loss of nerve plexus from the artery. In contrast, decentralization did not alter the NGF content in the artery, in either the adventitia or media. Our results are in marked contrast to previous studies reporting elevated levels of NGF following denervation. This discrepancy is explained by the ability of our new procedure to extract much greater amounts of NGF from the tissue.
To investigate the role of the retinoblastoma protein pRB in neuronal differentiation, we have measured the accumulation of hypophosphorylated pRB in PC12 cells stimulated by nerve growth factor (NGF). NGF induced the accumulation of hypophosphorylated pRB within 30 min and the level peaked after 12 h. Viral Kiras, cyclic AMP (cAMP), and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA) also induced the hypophosphorylation of pRB, but epidermal growth factor and interleukin-6 did not. The extent of hypophosphorylation of pRB correlated well with the capacity of these factors to stimulate neurite outgrowth. The constitutively activated Ras induced persistent shift of the phosphorylation state of pRB toward hypophosphorylation. A dominant negative form of cHa-Ras suppressed significantly induction of the hypophosphorylation of pRB by NGF, but not by cAMP. Taken together, these results suggest that the hypophosphorylation of pRB triggered by NGF is mediated by a Ras-dependent pathway. Furthermore, microinjection of a monoclonal antibody specific for the hypophosphorylated form of pRB blocked the neurite outgrowth initiated by NGF. These results suggest a crucial role of pRB in withdrawal of cells from the cell cycle and in neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells.
The microtubule-associated protein tau is produced from a 6-kb mRNA expressed primarily in neurons. A 2-kb tau mRNA has also been characterized, which produces a tau isoform that localizes to the nucleus, and an 8-kb mRNA is expressed in the PNS. Mapping and sequencing of the human tau gene start showed that it has an unusually GC-rich 5'-untranslated region coded by a single untranslated exon (designated -1). Primer extensions and expression assays indicated that upstream of exon -1 is a promoter that is not neuron specific. This region contains consensus binding sites for transcription factors AP2, Sp1, and GCF.
Transfection of mouse L(tk-) cells with human N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit cDNAs under the control of a dexamethasone-inducible promoter has been used to generate two stable cell lines expressing NR1a/NR2A receptors and a stable cell line expressing NR1a/NR2B receptors. The cell lines have been characterised by northern and western blot analyses, and the pharmacology of the recombinant receptors determined by radioligand binding techniques. Pharmacological differences were identified between the two NMDA receptor subtypes. The glutamate site antagonist D, L-(epsilon)-2-[3H]amino-4-propyl-5-phosphono-3-pentanoic acid ([3H]CGP 39653) had high affinity for NR1a/NR2A receptors (KD = 3.93 nM) but did not bind to NR1a/NR2B receptors. Glycine site agonists showed a 2.6-5.4-fold higher affinity for NR1a/NR2B receptors. Data from radioligand binding studies indicated that one of the cell lines, NR1a/NR2A-I, expressed a stoichiometric excess of the NR1a subunit, which may exist as homomeric assemblies. This observation has implications when interpreting data from pharmacological analysis of recombinant receptors, as well as understanding the assembly and control of expression of native NMDA receptors.
Estradiol treatment for 48 h increases the density of alpha 1B-adrenoceptors in the hypothalamus-preoptic area of ovariectomized female rats by five- to six-fold. Present studies tested the hypothesis that estradiol elevation of hypothalamus-preoptic area alpha 1B-adrenoceptor density is correlated with increased levels of mRNA for this receptor. We developed a semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) protocol for measuring brain alpha 1b-adrenoceptor mRNA. The primers chosen yielded the predicted 409 base pair PCR product when used to amplify authentic alpha 1b-adrenoceptor cDNA. The identity of the RT-PCR products from rat brain was confirmed by restriction digest analysis and sequencing. Moreover, there was a good correlation between the levels of alpha 1b-adrenoceptor mRNA measured by RT-PCR in liver, whole brain and cerebellum with previous measurements using Northern blots and RNAse protection assays. We then performed RT-PCR on total RNA from hypothalamic-preoptic area tissue taken from ovariectomized control rats and from ovariectomized rats injected once or twice with 2 micrograms of estradiol benzoate at 24 or 24 and 48 h before sacrifice. Exposure to estradiol for either 24 or 48 h significantly increased levels of alpha 1b-adrenoceptor mRNA by 86-110% in the hypothalamus-preoptic area of ovariectomized female rats when compared to oil-treated controls. We also examined whether estradiol regulates alpha 1b-adrenoceptor mRNA in the cortex. Cortical alpha 1b-adrenoceptor mRNA levels were reduced to approximately 20% of control levels when measured 24 h after hormone injection. A similar decrease in cortical alpha 1b-adrenoceptor mRNA was observed 48 h after estrogen administration. In summary, estradiol treatment significantly increases the level of alpha 1b-adrenoceptor mRNA in the hypothalamus-preoptic area, a brain region involved in the control of reproductive function. In the cortex, a brain region with relatively few estrogen receptors, the same estrogen treatment reduces alpha 1b-adrenoceptor mRNA levels.
In this study we describe modulatory effects exerted by in vivo activation of corticosteroid receptors on 5HT responsiveness of rat CA1 pyramidal neurons. In the first series of experiments, adrenalectomized (ADX) rats were injected with corticosterone one hour prior to decapitation (1-1000 micrograms/100 g body weight) after which 5HT1A induced hyperpolarizations were determined in vitro by means of intracellular recordings. It appeared that 5HT responsiveness was dose-dependently affected by corticosterone injections: 5HT responses were relatively large when no corticosteroid receptors were activated (ADX); similar 5HT responses were observed or when both mineralocorticoid receptors (MR) and glucocorticoid receptors (GR) were occupied by injection of high doses of corticosterone (100-1000 micrograms/100 g body weight). However, compared to the latter group, 5HT hyperpolarizations were significantly suppressed in slices from rats that received moderate amounts of corticosterone (10-30 micrograms/100 g). Next, we investigated whether physiological variations of plasma corticosterone levels as occurring in intact rats correlated with the transmitter responsiveness. It was found that high plasma levels of corticosterone due to either stress or exogenous application of high doses of corticosterone correlated with large 5HT-responses in vitro. Interestingly, the large 5HT responses recorded after stress were clearly suppressed by pretreatment with RU38486, a GR antagonist. Altogether, this study presents further evidence that 5HT transmission in hippocampal CA1 area is modulated by differential steroid receptor activation as may occur under physiological circumstances due to different plasma concentrations of corticosterone.
Natural killer cell (NK) activity in WKA and SD rats was found to be significantly higher following electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus (LH) compared to sham operated. There was no such difference between sham operated rats and those receiving electrical stimulation in the frontal cortex as a control. Operations were performed under sodium pentobarbital anesthetic, and NK activity against YAC-1 target cells was measured 20 h later using 51Cr release assay. The LH area stimulated is a potent reward center and that stimulation of this point increased NK activity opens the possibility that pleasure might play a role in cellular immunity.
Blood-borne cytokines enter the brain by transport across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) or by leakage through extracellular pathways at sites, such as circumventricular organs (CVOs), without a BBB. We used radioactively labeled albumin (T-Alb) to differentiate the relative contribution of transport and extracellular pathways to the passage of interleukin-1 alpha ([125I]IL-1 alpha) across the BBB. The major mechanism of entry for [125I]IL-1 alpha after intravenous (i.v.) injection was a saturable transport system with extracellular pathways accounting for only a small fraction of entry into brain. CVOs concentrated blood-borne [125I]IL-1 alpha in a saturable manner to a much greater extent than did the cerebral cortex and cerebellum, but accounted for less that 5% of total brain uptake. After intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection, [125I]IL-1 alpha and T-Alb were concentrated in the CVOs, especially the median eminence, although CVOs contained less that 1% of the substances injected. Distribution after i.c.v. injection was largely due to diffusion and leakage through extracellular pathways. We conclude that after i.c.v. injection, leakage across extracellular pathways accounts for the small but concentrated amount of [125I]IL-1 alpha found in CVOs. After i.v. injection, transport across the BBB accounts for the majority of [125I]IL-1 alpha in brain.
Peripheral nerve injury may lead to a chronic neuropathic pain state that results from an increase in excitability of central neurons. This central sensitization is mediated via an N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor and may involve the production of nitric oxide (NO). As NO is suggested to play a role in nociceptive transmission following nerve injury, we examined for altered NO synthase activity at multiple levels of peripheral and spinal neural tissue in a rat model of neuropathic pain. Peripheral neuropathy was induced in rats (N = 12) by ligation of the left L5 and L6 nerve roots. Six other rats had sham surgery. An ipsilateral decrease in paw withdrawal threshold to mechanical stimuli confirmed the presence of a neuropathic pain state. Samples of the lumbar and thoracic spinal cords, L4, L5, and L6 dorsal root ganglia (DRGs), and the sciatic nerves were obtained from the lesioned and contralateral sides at 2 and 4 weeks after neuropathic surgery (N = 6 per group). In the lumbar spinal cord, a bilateral decrease in nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity was observed 2 and 4 weeks after neuropathic surgery. NOS activity was increased in the ipsilateral L5 and 6 DRGs 2 weeks following neuropathic surgery. An increase in NOS activity in the DRG may be an early mechanism for inducing more central changes. The bilaterally decreased NOS activity in the lumbar spinal cord may be secondary to a negative feedback mechanism resulting from increased NO production in the spinal dorsal root ganglia. Multiple alterations in expression of NOS activity that occur in both peripheral and central processing may play a role in the pain behavior resulting from peripheral nerve injury. (Preliminary results of these studies have been presented in abstract form at the annual meetings of the Society for Neuroscience, 1994, and the American Society of Anesthesiologists, 1994).
The lysosomal hydrolases, cathepsin D (Cat D) and beta-hexosaminidase A (HEX), which are normally intracellular enzymes, colocalize with beta-amyloid in a subgroup of diffuse plaques in the cerebellum and striatum of individuals with Alzheimer's disease or Down's syndrome. Using specific antisera in combination with single- and double-label immunocytochemical techniques, extracellular hydrolase was detected in 30 to 40% of the diffuse plaques in the cerebellar molecular layer and nearly all of the diffuse plaques in the striatum. In both Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome, about 5 to 10% of the cerebellar Purkinje cells contained abnormally increased numbers of hydrolase-positive lysosomes despite their normal appearance by conventional histologic stains. Occasional atrophic Purkinje cells identified by Nissl stain were intensely immunostained. By confocal imaging analysis, abnormal hydrolase-laden Purkinje cell dendrites were seen coursing through some hydrolase-positive plaques and were continuous with dendritic branches that terminated within deposits of extracellular hydrolase and beta-amyloid. In the striatum, intensely immunostained abnormal-appearing neurons were commonly associated with extracellular deposits of hydrolase immunoreactivity and beta-amyloid within diffuse plaques and in the less commonly seen classical plaques. In both brain regions, other hydrolase-negative beta-amyloid deposits were seen, these being associated with blood vessels. The presence of HEX immunoreactivity in neurons, but not in glia, and its abundance in plaques support earlier studies, suggesting that neurons are the principal source of plaque hydrolase. An endosomal-lysosomal system upregulation, with increased hydrolase expression and extracellular enzyme deposition in plaques, is, like beta-amyloid deposition, an early marker of metabolic dysfunction potentially related to primary etiologic events in Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome.
1. The neuropeptide proctolin (Arg-Tyr-Leu-Pro-Thr) both potentiates neurally evoked contractions and causes contractures of insect skeletal muscle. In the hindleg extensor tibiae muscle of the locust, Schistocerca gregaria, the proctolin analogue [Afb (p-NO2)2]-proctolin is also able to potentiate neurally evoked contractions but is approximately 1,000-fold less effective in evoking contractures. 2. Proctolin and [Afb (p-NO2)2]-proctolin are equipotent in their ability to elevate the second-messenger inositol trisphosphate in isolated extensor tibiae muscle fiber membranes. 3. [Afb (p-NO2)2]-proctolin is approximately 1,000-fold less effective than proctolin in reducing the resting potassium conductance (GK) in extensor tibiae fibers. 4. We conclude that the action of proctolin on the extensor tibiae muscle is mediated by at least two receptor subtypes and that [Afb (p-NO2)2]-proctolin acts selectively on the receptor that potentiates neurally evoked contractions.
1. The dynamic contribution of otolith signals to three-dimensional angular vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) was studied during off-vertical axis rotations in rhesus monkeys. In an attempt to separate response components to head velocity from those to head position relative to gravity during low-frequency sinusoidal oscillations, large oscillation amplitudes were chosen such that peak-to-peak head displacements exceeded 360 degrees. Because the waveforms of head position and velocity differed in shape and frequency content, the particular head position and angular velocity sensitivity of otolith-ocular responses could be independently assessed. 2. During both constant velocity rotation and low-frequency sinusoidal oscillations, the otolith system generated two different types of oculomotor responses: 1) modulation of three-dimensional eye position and/or eye velocity as a function of head position relative to gravity, as presented in the preceding paper, and 2) slow-phase eye velocity as a function of head angular velocity. These two types of otolith-ocular responses have been analyzed separately. In this paper we focus on the angular velocity responses of the otolith system. 3. During constant velocity off-vertical axis rotations, a steady-state nystagmus was elicited that was maintained throughout rotation. During low-frequency sinusoidal off-vertical axis oscillations, dynamic otolith stimulation resulted primarily in a reduction of phase leads that characterize low-frequency VOR during earth-vertical axis rotations. Both of these effects are the result of an internally generated head angular velocity signal of otolithic origin that is coupled through a low-pass filter to the VOR. No change in either VOR gain or phase was observed at stimulus frequencies larger than 0.1 Hz. 4. The dynamic otolith contribution to low-frequency angular VOR exhibited three-dimensional response characteristics with some quantitative differences in the different response components. For horizontal VOR, the amplitude of the steady-state slow-phase velocity during constant velocity rotation and the reduction of phase leads during sinusoidal oscillation were relatively independent of tilt angle (for angles larger than approximately 10 degrees). For vertical and torsional VOR, the amplitude of steady-state slow-phase eye velocity during constant velocity rotation increased, and the phase leads during sinusoidal oscillation decreased with increasing tilt angle. The largest steady-state response amplitudes and smallest phase leads were observed during vertical/torsional VOR about an earth-horizontal axis. 5. The dynamic range of otolith-borne head angular velocity information in the VOR was limited to velocities up to approximately 110 degrees/s. Higher head velocities resulted in saturation and a decrease in the amplitude of the steady-state response components during constant velocity rotation and in increased phase leads during sinusoidal oscillations. 6. The response characteristics of otolith-borne angular VORs were also studied in animals after selective semicircular canal inactivation. Otolith angular VORs exhibited clear low-pass filtered properties with a corner frequency of approximately 0.05-0.1 Hz. Vectorial summation of canal VOR alone (elicited during earth-vertical axis rotations) and otolith VOR alone (elicited during off-vertical axis oscillations after semicircular canal inactivation) could not predict VOR gain and phase during off-vertical axis rotations in intact animals. This suggests a more complex interaction of semicircular canal and otolith signals. 7. The results of this study show that the primate low-frequency enhancement of VOR dynamics during off-vertical axis rotation is independent of a simultaneous activation of the vertical and torsional &quot;tilt&quot; otolith-ocular reflexes that have been characterized in the preceding paper. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
1. The dynamic properties of otolith-ocular reflexes elicited by sinusoidal linear acceleration along the three cardinal head axes were studied during off-vertical axis rotations in rhesus monkeys. As the head rotates in space at constant velocity about an off-vertical axis, otolith-ocular reflexes are elicited in response to the sinusoidally varying linear acceleration (gravity) components along the interaural, nasooccipital, or vertical head axis. Because the frequency of these sinusoidal stimuli is proportional to the velocity of rotation, rotation at low and moderately fast speeds allows the study of the mid-and low-frequency dynamics of these otolith-ocular reflexes. 2. Animals were rotated in complete darkness in the yaw, pitch, and roll planes at velocities ranging between 7.4 and 184 degrees/s. Accordingly, otolith-ocular reflexes (manifested as sinusoidal modulations in eye position and/or slow-phase eye velocity) were quantitatively studied for stimulus frequencies ranging between 0.02 and 0.51 Hz. During yaw and roll rotation, torsional, vertical, and horizontal slow-phase eye velocity was sinusoidally modulated as a function of head position. The amplitudes of these responses were symmetric for rotations in opposite directions. In contrast, mainly vertical slow-phase eye velocity was modulated during pitch rotation. This modulation was asymmetric for rotations in opposite direction. 3. Each of these response components in a given rotation plane could be associated with an otolith-ocular response vector whose sensitivity, temporal phase, and spatial orientation were estimated on the basis of the amplitude and phase of sinusoidal modulations during both directions of rotation. Based on this analysis, which was performed either for slow-phase eye velocity alone or for total eye excursion (including both slow and fast eye movements), two distinct response patterns were observed: 1) response vectors with pronounced dynamics and spatial/temporal properties that could be characterized as the low-frequency range of &quot;translational&quot; otolith-ocular reflexes; and 2) response vectors associated with an eye position modulation in phase with head position (&quot;tilt&quot; otolith-ocular reflexes). 4. The responses associated with two otolith-ocular vectors with pronounced dynamics consisted of horizontal eye movements evoked as a function of gravity along the interaural axis and vertical eye movements elicited as a function of gravity along the vertical head axis. Both responses were characterized by a slow-phase eye velocity sensitivity that increased three- to five-fold and large phase changes of approximately 100-180 degrees between 0.02 and 0.51 Hz. These dynamic properties could suggest nontraditional temporal processing in utriculoocular and sacculoocular pathways, possibly involving spatiotemporal otolith-ocular interactions. 5. The two otolith-ocular vectors associated with eye position responses in phase with head position (tilt otolith-ocular reflexes) consisted of torsional eye movements in response to gravity along the interaural axis, and vertical eye movements in response to gravity along the nasooccipital head axis. These otolith-ocular responses did not result from an otolithic effect on slow eye movements alone. Particularly at high frequencies (i.e., high speed rotations), saccades were responsible for most of the modulation of torsional and vertical eye position, which was relatively large (on average +/- 8-10 degrees/g) and remained independent of frequency. Such reflex dynamics can be simulated by a direct coupling of primary otolith afferent inputs to the oculomotor plant. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
1. Microinjection of angiotensin (Ang) II or substance P (SP) into the medial nucleus tractus solitarii (nTS) produces similar decreases in arterial pressure and heart rate. We previously reported that some medial nTS neurons responsive to SP were also excited by Ang II, and that Ang II increased the release of SP from medulla slices. Both electrophysiological and anatomic data suggest that the cardiovascular effects of these peptides may be mediated by a common neuronal pathway consisting of SP-containing vagal afferent fibers with presynaptic Ang II receptors that innervate medial nTS neurons with SP receptors. To evaluate the validity of this model, we established the presynaptic or postsynaptic location of the receptors for Ang II and SP that mediate excitation of medial nTS neurons by determining the capacity of each peptide to activate the cell before and after blocking synaptic transmission in rat dorsal medulla slices. 2. Extracellular recordings were obtained from 55 medial nTS neurons responsive to Ang II or SP in 400-microns horizontal slices of the dorsal medulla. Neuronal excitation by Ang II and SP was tested before, during, and after reversal of synaptic blockade with low-Ca2+ (0.2 mM), high Mg2+ (5 mM) artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF). Elimination of synaptically evoked short latency responses of the neuron to current pulses applied to afferent fibers in the solitary tract (TS) documented blockade of synaptic transmission by low-Ca2+ aCSF. In most cases, the basal firing rate of the cell increased slowly during perfusion with low-Ca2+ aCSF and stabilized after approximately 30 min at a higher level of spontaneous activity. Responses to the peptides and TS stimulation were also documented after synaptic blockade had been reversed by adding aCSF containing 2-mM Ca2+. 3. Of the 55 medial nTS neurons, 41 were responsive to Ang II; whereas, 50 of the 55 cells were responsive to SP. The neurons were divided into three subgroups on the basis of their responsiveness to Ang II and SP. Although most neurons were responsive to both Ang II and SP (n = 36), five other cells were excited only by Ang II, and 14 neurons were activated only by SP. Of the 55 neurons, 26 were also responsive to L-glutamate: 14 of 17 cells responsive to both Ang II and SP, all 5 neurons excited by Ang II but not by SP, and 7 of 10 neurons responsive only to SP were also excited by L-glutamate. The latency of the action potentials evoked by TS stimulation was much shorter in those neurons responsive only to Ang II (3.6 ms) than in cells excited by both Ang II and SP (6.8 ms) or responsive only to SP (7.4 ms). 4. In 21 of the 36 medial nTS neurons responsive to both Ang II and SP, Ang II continued to excite the cell when synaptic responses to TS stimulation were prevented by low-Ca2+ aCSF, but had no effect on the firing rate of the other 15 neurons during synaptic blockade. Excitation induced by Ang II was also prevented in two of the five medial nTS neurons responsive only to Ang II when synaptic transmission in the slice was blocked. Low-Ca2+ aCSF failed to prevent excitation by SP or L-glutamate in all medial nTS cells responsive to these agonists (n = 50 and n = 26, respectively). In contrast to these observations in medial nTS neurons, Ang II-induced excitation was not altered during synaptic blockade in any of the six dmnX cells studied. No responses to SP or L-glutamate were blocked in dmnX neurons, as also seen in the medial nTS. 5. When all medial nTS neurons responsive to Ang II were examined, the latencies of the response to TS stimulation were significantly shorter in those neurons with presynaptic Ang II receptors than in the group of cells with postsynaptic receptors. In addition, neurons with presynaptic Ang II receptors were distributed differently within the medial nTS than cells with postsynaptic Ang II receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

Two important objectives in the neuroscience of memory are (1) identification of neural pathways involved in memory processes; and (2) characterization of the pattern of interactions between these pathways. Functional neuroimaging can contribute to both of these goals. Using image subtraction analysis of regional cerebral blood flow data measured with positron emission tomography, we identified brain regions that changed activity during episodic memory retrieval (visual work recognition). Relative to a baseline reading task, decreased activity was observed in bilateral prefrontal, bilateral anterior and posterior temporal, and posterior cingulate cortices. Brain regions showing increased activity were the right prefrontal (different from deactivated regions), left anterior cingulate, and left occipital cortices, and vermis of cerebellum. We then performed a network analysis with structural equation modeling to test the hypothesis that regional decreases came about through active inhibition by regions showing increased activity during retrieval. This analysis demonstrated that the influence of activated regions on deactivated regions was more negative during retrieval than during reading, confirming the inhibition hypothesis. Such confirmation could not have been made from the subtraction analysis alone because decreases can come about, at the very least, through reduction of functional influences as well as by active inhibition. The concepts of ensemble excitation and inhibition, as defined through network analysis, are introduced. We argue that is is critical to examine the combined pattern of excitatory and inhibitory influences to fully appreciate the neural basis of episodic memory.
We have developed a novel double-labeling method to investigate multiple gene expression in single cells. The method relies on the use of a radioactive probe followed by a colorimetric probe. Unique to this method, the radioactive signal is first captured on an emulsion pre-coated slide, which totally separates it from the process of color development and prevents any interference with the radiolabeled probe. We cite two applications of the new procedure: (1) to study the correlation between acetylcholine receptor (AChR) alpha-subunit mRNA and protein expression in cultured chick myoblasts and (2) to investigate the co-expression of (AChR) alpha and gamma mRNAs in nascent myotubes. In the former case, the radioactive signal is generated by incubation of live cells with 125I-alpha-bungarotoxin, in the latter, by an in situ hybridization (ISH) with 35S-labeled DNA probe. Colorimetric labeling is accomplished in a second step by ISH using digoxigenin-labeled oligos. Analysis of 203 myoblasts showed that AChR alpha-subunit protein and mRNA are co-expressed. Examination of 4-day-old myotubes suggested that most, but not all, nuclear clusters co-express alpha and gamma mRNAs. These results demonstrate that the described protocol has high sensitivity and specificity for detection of protein and message, or two different mRNAs on a single cell level.
Persistent vegetative state is a rare condition but one which evokes many emotional, psychosocial, bioethical, legal and economic concerns. Because neuroscience nurses are among the caregivers most likely to be involved in caring for patients in PVS, they need to be knowledgeable in the diagnosis, prognosis and ethical management of these patients and be able to assist families, loved ones and surrogates make informed decisions about treatment choices.
Since the earliest attempt at surgical management of hydrocephalus, infection has been a significant complication. For better assessment and care the neuroscience nurse needs to be aware of the signs and management of this condition. A retrospective review of 68 infections in 61 children was undertaken. Results showed an increased incidence of infection in the first nine months after surgery. Gram positive organisms (Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus aureus) were most frequent; Propionobacter acnes was a significant pathogen in adolescence. Presenting symptoms included fever (26%), abdominal pain (19%), wound changes (22%) and indicators of shunt malfunction (33%). Elevated white blood cells (WBCs) in spinal fluid from shunt tap and positive cultures were most reliable laboratory data. Culturing of causative organism was sometimes difficult. A value regulated system for ventricular drainage which allows greater mobility for the patient is described.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is a prominent inhibitory transmitter in both the central nucleus of the amygdala (Ce) and the medial nuclei of the solitary tracts (mNTS). These regions are reciprocally connected by anatomical pathways mediating the coordinated visceral responses to emotional stress. To further determine whether GABA is present in the amygdaloid efferents or their targets in the mNTS, we combined peroxidase labeling of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) or biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) anterogradely transported from the Ce with immunogold-silver detection of antibodies against GABA in the rat mNTS. By light microscopy, peroxidase labeling for either PHA-L or BDA was seen in varicose processes, whereas immunogold-silver labeling for GABA was detected in perikarya and processes throughout the rostrocaudal mNTS. The intermediate mNTS at the level of the area postrema, a region receiving mainly cardiorespiratory and gastric visceral afferents, were examined by electron microscopy. In this region, anterograde labeling was observed exclusively in unmyelinated axons and axon terminals. These terminals lacked detectable GABA-immunoreactivity, but formed symmetric synapses that are associated with inhibition. The targets of the anterogradely labeled terminals were medium-sized dendrites both with and without GABA-labeling. These dendrites often also received convergent input from terminals that were intensely GABA-immunoreactive. We conclude that visceral activation accompanying emotional response to stress is likely to involve inhibition of GABAergic neurons in the mNTS by non-GABA-containing amygdaloid efferents. Furthermore, our results indicate that the inhibition of these GABAergic neurons may be further augmented by release of GABA from other converging terminals in the mNTS.
Conditioning of lower limb H-reflexes by transcranial magnetic stimulation of motor cortex was used to detect preserved innervation in patients with long-standing spinal cord injury (SCI). Cortical stimulation was delivered at intensities suprathreshold or subthreshold for evoking motor evoked potentials (MEPs). The conditioning (C) cortical stimulation preceded the test (T) H-reflex stimulus at intervals between C-T: 10-300 msec. Conditioned H-reflex profiles in control subjects (n = 10), following both suprathreshold and subthreshold cortical conditioning, yielded evidence of early (C-T: 10-30 msec) and late arriving (C-T: 60-130 msec) excitatory inputs to the lateral gastrocnemius (LG) motoneuron pool. Demonstration of late inputs following subthreshold cortical conditioning suggested the inputs are mediated by slow conducting or oligosynaptic descending motor tracts, as distinct from afferent consequences of short latency MEPs. In SCI patients (n = 11) the conditioned H-reflex profile varied according to the patients' ASIA impairment rating. Higher functioning SCI patients (ASIA level C and D) revealed evidence of both early and late arriving inputs to the lumbosacral motoneuron pool whereas patients with more severe impairments (ASIA levels A and B) most often failed to exhibit early or late periods of H-reflex facilitation in LG. In three patients (i.e., 1 ASIA B; 2 ASIA C) the cortical modulation of H-reflex amplitudes yielded evidence of preserved corticospinal innervation that was not detectable by other MEP reinforcement procedures. These results introduce the cortical conditioning procedure as a sensitive means of detecting latent corticospinal and/or bulbospinal innervation in SCI patients consistent with the emerging neuropathological picture of preserved axonal integrity in descending motor tracts in the face of extensive functional loss.
Incubation with either of the protein kinase C activators phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and sn-1,2 dioctanoylglycerol (DiC8) decreased the uptake of dopamine into striatal synaptosomes, whereas the inactive phorbol ester 4 alpha-PMA had no effect. Washout of PMA and DiC8 failed to reverse the decrease in uptake. Kinetic analysis showed a decrease in the apparent V(max) for the transporter without changes in the K(m). Neither PMA nor DiC8 affected mazindol binding to the dopamine transporter. Preincubation with the protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine prevented the DiC8-induced decrease of dopamine uptake. Furthermore, the protein phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid decreased dopamine uptake by itself and enhanced the DiC8-induced reduction of uptake. These findings support a role for protein kinase C in modulating dopamine transporter activity.
1. Inhibitory junction potentials (IJPs) and relaxations evoked in response to field stimulation (supramaximal voltage, 0.1 ms, single stimulus and 5 stimuli at 5-40 Hz) of non-adrenergic non-cholinergic (NANC) nerves with atropine and phentolamine (each 1 microM) were measured in the guinea-pig internal anal sphincter (gpIAS). The mean resting membrane potential was -44.2 +/- 0.2 mV (n = 1119 cells from 260 preparations). 2. NANC nerve stimulation evoked frequency-dependent IJPs (19.7 +/- 1.1 mV, n = 165, 33 tissues to a single stimulus) and relaxations. IJPs consisted of two tetrodotoxin (1 microM)-sensitive components: one was abolished by apamin (0.3 microM) and the P2-purinoceptor antagonist suramin (100 microM); the other, smaller in amplitude, was sensitive to inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase (NOS, e.g. L-NAME, 100 microM) and the nitric oxide (NO) scavenger oxyhaemoglobin (HbO, 10 microM). 3. ATP (1 mM), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP, 0.01-0.25 microM) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP(1-27), 0.84 microM) each hyperpolarized and relaxed the gpIAS; only ATP responses resembled the evoked IJPs in time course. 4. The guanylyl cyclase inhibitor LY83583 (10 microM) abolished apamin-insensitive IJPs and relaxations. The cGMP phosphodiesterase inhibitor M&amp;B 22948 (30 microM) and 8-Br-cGMP (100 microM) each hyperpolarized the gpIAS. 5. Two components comprise the IJP and relaxation evoked in response to NANC nerve stimulation in the gpIAS. One, sensitive to apamin, resembles the response to ATP and is modulated by purinoceptor antagonists; the other, apamin and suramin insensitive, is inhibited by NO antagonists.
1. The mechanisms by which four adamantane derivatives (IEM-1857, -1592, -1460 and -1754) block the open NMDA-activated channel were studied at membrane voltages (Vm) from -170 to +30 mV. The rate constants of channel block (k+) and of channel unblock (k-) were measured from the fully resolvable flicker of single-channel currents induced by each compound. 2. The k+ of each compound exhibited a similar exponential dependence on voltage over the Vm range studied. 3. The k- of IEM-1857 and IEM-1592 over the Vm range studied, and of IEM-1754 and IEM-1460 from -30 to -90 mV, exhibited similar exponential dependencies on voltage. However, the k- of IEM-1754 and IEM-1460 at Vm values more hyperpolarized than -90 mV were much more steeply voltage dependent, suggesting that at these Vm values the two drugs can occupy a deeper binding site. 4. Each of the drugs induced a concentration-dependent prolongation of the mean burst length at -90 mV, suggesting that while blocking they can interfere with channel closure. 5. The prolongation of mean burst length induced by the largest drug (IEM-1857) increased with hyperpolarization. The increase was consistent at each Vm with the predictions of the sequential scheme of block, suggesting that channel closure is prevented when IEM-1857 is bound. The prolongation of burst length induced by the smallest drug (IEM-1754) was less than predicted by the sequential scheme and the deviation increased with hyperpolarization. 6. The IEM-1857 concentration-dependence of number of blockages per unit open time had a slope equal to k+ at -150 mV. The IEM-1754 concentration-dependence of number of blockages per unit open time revealed a slope about two times less than k+ for this compound at -150 mV. 7. The mean patch current was not significantly altered by 3 microM IEM-1857 at Vm values from -90 to -150 mV, as expected of a drug that prevents channel closure when blocking. Mean patch current significantly decreased with hyperpolarization beyond -90 mV in the presence of 1 microM IEM-1754. 8. The data suggest that there are two blocking sites at different depths within the NMDA-activated channel. Channel closure is prevented when any of the IEM drugs occupy the shallow blocking site. Channel closure is permitted during occupation of a deeper blocking site that can be reached only by the smaller IEM drugs at hyperpolarized voltages.
The chloride cells of the gill secretory epithelium of fish that make the transition from fresh water to sea water adapt to the increased salinity by responding to a rapid signal that stimulates chloride secretion. In this paper, data are presented supporting the view that the transient increase in plasma osmolarity that can be measured during the transition is responsible for the stimulation of chloride secretion. A maximal increase of 65 mOsm in the plasma of Fundulus heteroclitus (the killifish) was found during acclimation to sea water. Similar or greater increases of osmolarity induced by mannitol on the basolateral side of isolated opercular epithelial membranes of the same species of fish containing great numbers of chloride cells produced stimulation of chloride secretion detected as the short circuit current. The shrinkage of the chloride cell activates the Na-K-2Cl cotransporter, and the Na/H exchanger and requires the integrity of apical chloride channels and normal levels of Ca. A Cl/HCO3 exchanger did not participate in this osmotic response to higher salinity. Chloride cell volume responses to osmolarity were studied with imagine and quantitative optics.
Neuronal networks have become recognized in neuroscience as the backbone of information-processing by virtue of their dynamics and their relationship to biocommunication to defined targets. Their patterns of activity and regulation derive from the final architecture of the associated neurons, each with its distinct network and working regimen. These networks are spatially localized in the brain, adhere to temporal, fixed bonds and have a definite unit specification. This article focuses primarily on the vast amount of data concerning normal neuronal networks which can produce collateral pathways to compensate for the loss of innervation of adjacent cells. It is suggested that, under abnormal conditions such mechanisms may cause 'miswiring' leading to a fundamental bypass in neuroconduction, misguided biosignal orientation, direction and distribution, and culminating in misinformation. This re-establishment of complementary neuronal networks is manifested in recognizable neuropsychopathological states.
There is abundant evidence to suggest that alterations of excitatory and inhibitory amino acids play a significant role in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy (HE) in both acute and chronic liver diseases. Brain glutamate concentrations are reduced in patients who died in hepatic coma as well as in experimental HE, astrocytic reuptake of glutamate is compromised in liver failure and postsynaptic glutamate receptors (both NMDA and non-NMDA subclasses) are concomitantly reduced in density. Recent studies in experimental acute liver failure suggest reduced capacity of the astrocytic glutamate transporter in this condition. Together, this data suggests that neuron-astrocytic trafficking of glutamate is impared in HE. Other significant alterations of neuroactive amino acids in HE include a loss of taurine from brain cells to extracellular space, a phenomenon which could relate both to HE and to brain edema in acute liver failure. Increased concentrations of benzodiazepine-like compounds have been reported in human and experimental HE. Clinical trials with the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil reveal a beneficial effect in some patients with HE; the mechanism responsible for this effect, however, remains to be determined.
Normal human cells in culture become senescent after a limited number of population doublings. Senescent cells display characteristic changes in gene expression, among which is a repression of the ability to induce the c-fos gene. We have proposed a two-stage model for cellular senescence in which the mortality stage 1 (M1) mechanism can be overcome by agents that bind both the product of the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene (pRB)-like pocket proteins and p53. In this study we determined whether the repression of c-fos at M1 was downstream of the p53 or pRB-like &quot;arms&quot; of the M1 mechanism. We examined c-fos expression during the entire lifespan of normal human fibroblasts carrying E6 (which binds p53), E7 (which binds pRB), or both E6 and E7 of human papilloma virus type 16. The results indicate a dramatic change in cellular physiology at M1. Before M1, c-fos inducibility is controlled by an E6-independent mechanism that is blocked by E7. After M1, c-fos inducibility becomes dependent on E6 whereas E7 has no effect. In addition, a novel oscillation of c-fos expression with an approximately 2-h periodicity appears in E6-expressing fibroblasts post-M1. Accompanying this shift at M1 is a dramatic change in the ability to divide in low serum. Before M1, E6-expressing fibroblasts growth arrest in 0.3% serum, although they continue dividing under those conditions post-M1. These results demonstrate the unique physiology of fibroblasts during the extended lifespan between M1 and M2 and suggest that p53 might participate in the process that represses the c-fos gene at the onset of cellular senescence.
Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein whose activity has been detected in germ line cells, immortal cells, and most cancer cells. Except in stem cells, which have a low level of telomerase activity, its activity is absent from normal somatic tissues. Understanding the regulation of telomerase activity is critical for the development of potential tools for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. Using the telomeric repeat amplification protocol, we found that immortal, telomerase-positive, pseudodiploid human cells (HT1080 and HL60 cells) sorted by flow repressed in quiescent cells. This was true whether quiescence was induced by contact inhibition (NIH 3T3 mouse cells), growth factor removal (bromodeoxyuridine-blocked mouse myoblasts), reexpression of cellular senescence (the reversibly immortalized IDH4 cells), or irreversible cell differentiation (HL60 promyelocytic leukemia cells and C2C12 mouse myoblasts). Taken together, these results indicate that telomerase is active throughout the cell in dividing, immortal cells but that its activity is repressed in cells that exit the cell cycle. This suggests that quiescent stem cells that have the potential to express telomerase may remain unaffected by potential antitelomerase cancer therapies.
The identification of connexin32 (Cx32) in myelinating Schwann cells and the association of Cx32 mutations with peripheral neuropathies suggest a functional role for gap junction proteins in the nerve. However, after nerve crush injury, Cx32 expression dramatically decreases in Schwann cells in the degenerating region, returning to control levels at newly formed nodes of Ranvier and Schmidt-Lantermann incisures by 30 days. The present study examined increases in expression of other connexins that occur after peripheral nerve injury. A 56/58-kDa connexin46 (Cx46) protein species was detected in adult rat sciatic nerve, along with very low levels of Cx46 mRNA. However, by 3 days after crush injury, coincident with changes in Schwann cell phenotype, Cx46 mRNA rapidly increased in the degenerating regions. Additionally, the 56/58-kDa Cx46 protein species present in adult nerve decreased and a 53-kDa Cx46 species, which was also present in cultured Schwann cells, became apparent. Connexin43 (Cx43) mRNA and protein, which was localized to perineurial cells in adult nerve, dramatically increased in endoneurial fibroblasts in the crush and distal regions by 3 days, coincident with macrophage infiltration. By 12 days after injury, Cx43 decreased and was comparable to normal nerve. These results suggest that enhanced expression of Cx46 and Cx43, by nonneuronal cells, may be important for the injury and regenerative responses of peripheral nerves.
Schwann cell responses to nerve injury are stimulated, in part, by inflammatory cytokines. This study compares changes in the phenotype of cultured Schwann cells after exposure to the cytokine tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha or the mitogen neu differentiation factor (NDF)-beta. TNF alpha inhibited proliferation in a dose-dependent manner without altering Schwann cell survival. TNF alpha also reduced both gap junctional conductance and Lucifer yellow dye coupling between Schwann cells. Moreover, both Po and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity were reduced. By contrast, NDF beta initially had little effect on cell division although it reduced junctional coupling within 8 h. However, by 48 h, NDF beta stimulated proliferation with a concomitant increase in coupling. Dividing Schwann cells (BrdU+) were preferentially dye coupled compared to nondividing cells, indicating an association between proliferation and coupling. Moreover, cultured Schwann cells expressed connexin46 mRNA and protein, and changes in the levels of the protein correlated with the degree of proliferation and coupling. The data thus provide evidence for cytokine-induced modulation of Schwann cell antigenic phenotype, proliferation, and gap junction properties. These observations suggest that enhanced gap junctional communication among Schwann cells after nerve injury could help to coordinate cellular responses to the injury, and that TNF alpha may be a signal which terminates proliferation as well as junctional communication.

Forty-three former polio patients now complaining of new progressive muscle weakness (symptomatic patients) plus 13 former polio patients without new neuromuscular complaints were included in the study. The symptomatic patients reported high frequencies of other neuromuscular complaints and a decline in their functional level. Most frequent complaints were general fatigue, low backache, and muscle pain (97.7%, 86%, and 79.1%, respectively) and a decline in the ability to walk (80%). In a prospective follow-up averaging 2.1 years, the muscle strength of 26 muscles in all four limbs of each patient was assessed by manual muscle testing and was also measured isometrically using a handheld dynamometer. During the follow-up period, we did not find a significant decrease in muscle strength in the symptomatic patients as compared to patients without new neuromuscular complaints.
This study evaluates whether physiological variables differentially affect the local synthesis of protein constituents of synapses in subcellular fractions containing pinched-off dendrites (synaptodendrosomes). Synaptodendrosomes were pulse-labeled in a medium containing 35S-methionine with 3 or 25 mM KCl and in the presence or absence of 0.5 mM EGTA or 10 microM glutamate. Synaptodendrosomes were then subfractionated to prepare synaptic plasma membranes and synaptic junctional complexes. The protein constituents of the synaptic plasma membrane and synaptic junctional complex fractions that were locally synthesized were identified using SDS-PAGE and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and the extent of labeling of individual bands was analyzed using a Phosphorimager. Analysis of incorporation into individual bands resolved by SDS-PAGE revealed that depolarizing conditions (25 mM KCl) increased the extent of labeling of different bands to a different extent (ranging from 10-70% increases in labeling). Addition of 0.5 mM EGTA decreased the extent of labeling of the same group of bands in both 3 mM KCl and 25 mM KCl conditions. Addition of 10 microM glutamate reduced incorporation especially in the synaptodendrosomes incubated in 25 mM KCl. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis analyses revealed that the labeled spots that showed differential labeling under the different conditions did not correspond to the most prominent Coomassie-stained spots. These results indicate that the proteins that are synthesized in synaptodendrosomes and regulated by physiological variables are not amongst the more abundant protein constituents of the fractions. Taken together, these results are consistent with the idea that protein synthesis within dendrites may be regulated by synaptic activity.
The role of (-) deprenyl in offering neuroprotection to cortical neurons exposed to Aluminium chloride (AlCl3) was examined. Primary cortical cultures derived from newborn rats were exposed to AlCl3 on 6th day in vitro, at 100,200,400,600,800 and 1000 microM concentrations of AlCl3. After 48 h of AlCl3 exposure, many nerve cell bodies were swollen; a beading of neurites and a disruption of the neuritic network were also observed suggesting neurodegeneration. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) efflux increased in a dose-dependent manner (59-120%). (-) Deprenyl co-exposure at concentrations of 10(-7), 10(-8) and 10(-9) M significantly attenuated both the morphological alterations and the LDH efflux induced by AlCl3. This in vitro study has demonstrated that (-) deprenyl can protect neurons from aluminium induced neurotoxicity.
We assessed the clinical significance of interruption of CSF flow documented by radionuclide ventriculography (111Indium-DTPA CSF flow study) in patients with leptomeningeal metastases. Forty patients (25 men and 15 women) ranging in age from 6 to 70 years (median 38.5 years) with cytologically documented leptomeningeal metastases were demonstrated to have interruption of CSF flow by radionuclide ventriculography. All patients were treated with radiotherapy (30 Gy in 10 fractions) to the site of CSF obstruction after which intra-CSF chemotherapy (methotrexate or cytarabine followed by cytarabine or thio-TEPA if clinically indicated) was administered. Twenty patients (group 1) after radiotherapy to the site of CSF flow block demonstrated reestablishment of normal CSF flow. By contrast, 20 patients (group 2) treated in a similar manner had persistent CSF flow obstruction. All patients were treated with intraventricular chemotherapy. Median survival was 6 months in group 1 (range 3 to 15 months) compared with 1.75 months in group 2 (range 1 to 4 months) (p &lt; 0.0001). Cause of death differed between groups with 20% of group 1 patients dying of progressive leptomeningeal disease compared with 70% of group 2 patients (p &lt; 0.0006). In patients with leptomeningeal metastases and CSF flow obstruction, 111Indium-DTPA CSF flow studies predict patient survival and are useful in determining which patients would be candidates for intra-CSF chemotherapy administration.
There are reports of weight loss and low body mass index (BMI) in patients with AD. The mesial temporal cortex (MTC) is involved in feeding behavior and memory and is preferentially involved in AD. We studied 74 subjects, including 58 AD patients and 16 control subjects, to determine whether BMI is associated with atrophy of the MTC or other brain regions. We used MRI morphometric analysis to provide measures of regional brain atrophy. AD patients had significant brain atrophy in all measured brain regions, except the white matter, compared with normal control subjects. The MTC was the only brain region significantly associated with BMI in AD patients (r = 0.39, p = 0.003). Multiple-regression analysis indicated that addition of brain regions other than the MTC to the model did not significantly add to the prediction of BMI. We conclude that low BMI correlates best and specifically with MTC atrophy. This finding supports a connection between limbic system damage and low body weight in AD.
We sought to determine whether geriatric patients with late-life-onset major depression have more subcortical hyperintensities on MRI and greater cognitive impairment than age-matched geriatric patients with early-life-onset major depression, suggesting that subcortical disease may be etiologic in late-life depression. Most negative studies of the clinical significance of subcortical hyperintensities on MRI in geriatric patients have sampled from a restricted range of subjects, have employed limited batteries of neuropsychological tests, or have not quantified MRI changes; the present study attempted to address these limitations. Thirty subjects from a geriatric psychiatry inpatient service who were over 60 years of age and presented with major depression were divided into groups with onset of first depression after age 60 (mean = 72.4 years, 15 women, 0 men), and onset of first depression before age 60 (mean = 35.8 years, 12 women, 3 men). Quantitative analysis of MRI yielded the volume of: periventricular hyperintensities (PVH) and deep white-matter hyperintensities (DWMH). Subjects were administered a neuropsychological battery and measures of depression by raters blind to age of onset. The late-onset group had significantly more PVH and DWMH. They were also more impaired on executive and verbal and nonverbal memory tasks. Discriminant analysis using the severity or subcortical signal hyperintensities on MRI, cognitive index, and depression scores correctly predicted late versus early onset of depression in 87% of the early-onset group and 80% of the late-onset group. These findings suggest that late-life-onset depression may be associated with an increased severity of subcortical vascular disease and greater impairment of cognitive performance.
We have characterized the phosphorylation of the glutamate receptor subunit GluR1, using biochemical and electrophysiological techniques. GluR1 is phosphorylated on multiple sites that are all located on the C-terminus of the protein. Cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase specifically phosphorylates SER-845 of GluR1 in transfected HEK cells and in neurons in culture. Phosphorylation of this residue results in a 40% potentiation of the peak current through GluR1 homomeric channels. In addition, protein kinase C specifically phosphorylates Ser-831 of GluR1 in HEK-293 cells and in cultured neurons. These results are consistent with the recently proposed transmembrane topology models of glutamate receptors, in which the C-terminus is intracellular. In addition, the modulation of GluR1 by PKA phosphorylation of Ser-845 suggests that phosphorylation of this residue may underlie the PKA-induced potentiation of AMPA receptors in neurons.


The first clear-cut description of a virus-nerve cell interaction was made by Adelchi Negri in 1903 with the detection of cytoplasmic bodies (Negri bodies) in subsets of neurons in the brain from rabies-infected animals. A biographical sketch of Negri is given here; he was born in Perugia, Italy, in 1875 and died in Pavia in 1912. In 1900 Negri became assistant to Camillo Golgi, who encouraged him to study rabies-infected brains with histological techniques. The report of intraneuronal bodies described by Negri as specific for rabies stimulated an intense debate both concerning their diagnostic value and their nature. The diagnostic value was finally determined in a study by Negri's wife, Lina Negri-Luzzani, in 1913, while the viral nature of the bodies had to await the introduction of electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry. However, the true significance of the Negri bodies is still mysterious, since they only develop in subsets of infected neurons and occur mainly after infection with wild, so-called 'street', virus strains and not after infection with strains passaged in the laboratory, so-called 'fixed' strains.
In complex behaviors, like social behavior, the MSH/ACTH (4-9) analog Org2766 is found to counteract changes in social interest caused by preceding housing or test conditions. Previous studies have indicated an involvement of endogenous opioid systems in these outcomes. In the present study we have counteracted isolation-induced enhanced social interest by chronic treatment (7 x every 48 h) with Org2766 or with the opiate morphine. These effects were blocked by previous administration of naloxone. However, in group-housed animals, both Org2766 and morphine treatment did not result in changes in social activity as compared to saline-treated group-housed controls. Chronic administration of naloxone in group-housed rats resulted in an increase in social interest. These results are discussed in relation to possible function of Org2766 and morphine as a substitute for the release of endogenous opioids caused by social contact.
The present study investigated the regulation of spontaneous neuronal activity in the subthalamic nucleus by dopamine receptors using in vivo extracellular single unit recording techniques. Subthalamic nucleus neuronal firing rates were doubled by systemic administration of the nonselective dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine. The response to apomorphine was attenuated in animals anesthetized with chloral hydrate or ketamine. The dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptor agonist quinpirole did not alter subthalamic nucleus neuronal firing rates. Firing rates were increased by the D(1) receptor agonists SKF 38393 and SKF 82958 two- to three-fold; these increases were reversed by the D(1) receptor antagonist, SCH 23390. Autoradiographic studies using [(125)I]SCH 23982 indicated that D(1) family receptors were located along the ventral edge of the subthalamic nucleus and the dorsal aspect of the cerebral peduncle. Local administration of SKF 82958 into the subthalamic nucleus doubled neuronal firing rates; these increases were reversed by systemic administration of SCH 23390. Infusion of SCH 23390 into the subthalamic nucleus prevented systemic SKF 38393 from increasing the firing rates of subthalamic nucleus neurons. These results indicate that apomorphine and D(1) receptor agonists exert an excitatory influence on subthalamic nucleus neuronal activity. In addition, the excitation induced by D(1) receptor agonists appears to be mediated, at least in part, by D(1) receptors located in the vicinity of the subthalamic nucleus. The data suggest that basal ganglia output under conditions of increased dopamine receptor stimulation is influenced by the activation of excitatory subthalamic efferent pathways, as opposed to suppression of these pathways as predicted by current models of basal ganglia function.
Glucocorticoid hormones increase voltage-gated Ca(2)+ current density in clonal pituitary cells. To test whether these steroids might stimulate expression of Ca(2)+ channel genes, messenger RNase protection assays were used to measure alpha IC and alpha ID RNAs that encode pore-forming subunits of L-type Ca2+ channels. We show here that dexamethasone rapidly increases alpha IC messenger RNA expression without affecting alpha ID messenger RNA level. This up-regulation of channel messenger RNA is also produced by natural glucocorticoids and is blocked by the glucocorticoid antagonist Ru48386. The up-regulation of the channel subunit messenger RNA expression is associated with an increase in high voltage-activated Ca(2)+ current density. Thus, glucocorticoids may produce a long-term effect on Ca(2)+ homeostasis in clonal pituitary cells by differentially regulating expression of Ca(2)+ channel subunit genes.
In synaptosomes prepared from dentate gyrus, activation of the metabotropic glutamate receptor by the specific agonist, trans-1-amino-cyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylate, increases release of glutamate in the presence of a low concentration of arachidonic acid. A similar interaction between trans-1-amino-cyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylate and arachidonic acid is observed on inositol phospholipid turnover and on protein kinase C activity. We report here that when long-term potentiation is induced in the dentate gyrus by high frequency tetanic stimulation to the perforant path, the synergism between arachidonic acid and trans-1-amino-cyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylate is occluded. The occlusion of the synergistic action between arachidonic acid and trans-1-amino-cyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylate on glutamate release extended to occlusion of the effect in inositol phospholipid turnover and protein kinase C activation in synaptosomes prepared from dentate gyrus in which long-term potentiation was induced in vivo. One interpretation of the results presented here is that tetanic stimulation is followed by stimulation of metabotropic glutamate receptors at a time when arachidonic acid concentration in the synaptic region is elevated, and that this interaction triggers the presynaptic changes required for expression of long-term potentiation.
Multiple-site optical recording of transmembrane potential activity, using a voltage-sensitive dye, was employed to monitor neural activity from the nucleus tractus solitarius of the chick embryo. Optical signals related to glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potentials were evoked by a brief square current pulse applied with a microsuction electrode to the vagus nerve, and were recorded simultaneously from many sites in the brainstem slice preparation. We have found that glycine has biphasic modulatory effects on the glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potentials: at lower concentrations, glycine enhances the glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potential-related optical signal, and at higher concentrations, it reduces the glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potential-signal. The enhancing effect was insensitive to strychnine, but the reducing effect was blocked by strychnine, suggesting that the former effect was induced by glycine which increased glutamate binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, and the latter resulted from an increase in chloride conductance through the strychnine-sensitive inhibitory glycine receptors in postsynaptic neurons. The inhibitory effect of glycine was first observed in the brainstem preparations at the seven-day-old embryonic stage, and the enhancing effect was first observed in the nine-day-old preparations. We determined regional distributions of the biphasic effects of glycine in the seven- to nine-day old embryonic preparations. The spatial distribution of the enhancing effect appeared to be concentrated on the ventral side of the nucleus tractus solitarius, and the inhibitory effect was relatively concentrated in the medial portion. Furthermore, we compared the glycine effect with the effect of Mg(2)+ on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, and we have found that the Mg(2)+ site is functionally organized prior to the glycine site during embryonic development.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor and an avian homolog, growth promoting activity, are members of the cytokine/neurokine family of trophic factors and have been proposed to function as survival and developmental factors for ciliary ganglion neurons in vivo. Here we identify for the first time functional receptors for ciliary neurotrophic factor and growth promoting activity on cultured ciliary ganglion neurons. [(125)I]Rat ciliary neurotrophic factor binding studies indicate that rat ciliary neurotrophic factor and growth promoting activity bind to these receptors with a single affinity, while human ciliary neurotrophic factor recognizes both a high- and low-affinity site. Comparison of the relative potency of human ciliary neurotrophic factor and avian growth promoting activity in biological assays indicates that growth promoting activity is three to five times more active in promoting survival and in regulating acetylcholine receptors. The binding of ciliary neurotrophic factor is specific, sensitive to phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C and partially inhibited by leukemia inhibitory factor, but not inhibited by other members of the human neurokine family, including interleukin-6, interleukin-22 and oncostatin M. Cross-linking of [(125)I]rat ciliary neurotrophic factor to ciliary neurons results in the specific labeling of three proteins with estimated molecular masses of 153,000, 81,000 and 72,000. Only the 81,000 molecular weight component is released from the cells after treatment with phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C, suggesting a membrane attachment via a glycosylphosphatidylinositol linkage. Stimulation with ciliary neurotrophic factor or growth promoting activity, but not by other neurokines, results in the rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of a 90,000 molecular weight protein that is inhibited by pretreatment with phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C. In conclusion, we report here the pharmacological and functional properties of ciliary neurotrophic factor receptors on embryonic ciliary ganglion neurons. These results provide the means for elaborating the molecular mechanisms of ciliary neurotrophic factor action and understanding its physiological role in a defined neuronal population.
The hypothesis that multiple trophic inputs are essential for normal development of transmitter release properties in sympathetic neurons was tested using two supportive agents (excess KCl and phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate which produce marked activation of protein kinase C and also support survival of chick sympathetic neurons in culture) in addition to nerve growth factor, ciliary neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3. Basal and electrically evoked (10 pulses at 1 Hz and 10 Hz) release of [(3)H]norepinephrine from neurons supported by nerve growth factor was very high (1.5 to 2% of total [(3)H]norepinephrine content) and relatively insensitive to facilitation by tetraethylammonium as compared to release in neuroeffector organs, and the frequency-release response was negative. In K+-supported neurons, basal [(3)H]norepinephrine release was almost four-fold lower, evoked release was four- to eight-fold lower, the frequency response was flat to positive, and tetraethylammonium increased evoked release up to four-fold. Inclusion of nerve growth factor in culture did not modify the effects of K+ on basal or evoked release, and nerve growth factor plus ciliary neurotrophic factor and/or neurotrophin-3 did not produce the changes observed in K+-supported neurons. Neurons supported by phorbol ester had a low background release, low evoked release, a positive frequency-release response, and 10- to 30-fold facilitation by tetraethylammonium of release evoked by 1 Hz or 1 pulse stimulation. Thus, physiological and pharmacological behavior of transmitter release of sympathetic neurons supported by excess KCl or phorbol ester was very similar to their counterparts growing in the body. Neurons supported by nerve growth factor showed an immediate rise in stimulated [Ca(2)+]i that was three- to five-fold above basal levels with either 1 Hz or 10 Hz stimulation. However, in phorbol supported neurons, [Ca(2)+]i rose gradually to about 1.5 times basal levels during 1 Hz stimulation and increased further with 10Hz stimulation. Tetraethylammonium had little effect on stimulated [Ca(2)+]i in nerve growth factor-supported neurons, but greatly facilitated the stimulated rise in [Ca(2)+]i in phorbol-supporte neurons. The data show that multiple trophic inputs distinct from nerve growth factor, neurotrophin-beta or ciliary neurotrophic factor are required for normal physiological function of sympathetic neurons.
Using polyclonal antibodies against alpha-, beta- and gamma-subspecies of protein kinase C, developmental changes in expression of these subspecies in the motor neurons in the rat cervical spinal cord were immunohistochemically investigated. On embryonic day-12, the motor neurons began to differentiate from undifferentiated neuroepithelial cells. On embryonic day-13, they began to express weak immunoreactivity for alpha- and beta-protein kinase C and slightly more evident immunoreactivity for gamma-protein kinase C. Immunoreactivity for protein kinase C in these neurons gradually became stronger, as the development progressed. Between embryonic day-18 and postnatal day-7, the motor neurons showed distinct immunoreactivity in the nucleus, perikaryal cytoplasm, axon and dendrites. At these stages, distribution and intensity of immunoreactivity for alpha-, beta- and gamma-protein kinase C were very similar. Thereafter, the expression of this enzyme in the nucleus gradually declined, while in the other structures, expression of each subspecies changed independently. On postnatal day-28 and 35, expression of beta-protein kinase C in the axons was stronger than that of alpha- and gamma-protein kinase C, and immunoreactivity for gamma-protein kinase C in the perikaryal cytoplasm and dendrites was slightly weaker than that for alpha- and beta-protein kinase C. Expression of this enzyme in the motor neurons at these stages was almost the same as in the adult animal. Electron microscopically, immunoreactivity for protein kinase C was randomly distributed in the nucleus, and in the perikaryal cytoplasm, often near the cisterns of the endoplasmic reticulum. Expression of protein kinase C in the growing axons was quite different from that in the mature axons. In the dendrites, immunoreactivity for protein kinase C was distributed randomly in the cytoplasm and at the postsynaptic densities. These findings suggest that protein kinase C might regulate not only the neural functions, but also several aspects of the differentiation process in the motor neurons.
We have examined the effects of intrathecal (i.t.) pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide on the spinal nociceptive flexor reflex in decerebrate, spinalized, unanaesthetized rats. The flexor reflex was elicited by electrical stimulation applied subcutaneously to the sural nerve innervation area and recorded as electromyogram activity from ipsilateral hamstring muscles. Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide(l-27) was administered over a wide dose range (10 ng to 10 mu g) and elicited a dose-dependent facilitation of the flexor reflex and did not depress the reflex at any dose. Furthermore, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide did not inhibit the facilitation of the flexor reflex induced by repetitive stimulation of C-fibres. It is concluded that pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide had an excitatory effect on spinal cord function which may indicate a role for this peptide in nociceptive transmission and modulation. Moreover, in contrast to previous studies, we found no evidence suggesting that pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide exerts antinociceptive action at spinal level.
Previous studies have shown that adrenalectomy results in a small increase in hippocampal alpha-bungarotoxin binding, whereas seven days of chronic treatment with high doses of corticosterone results in decreases in alpha-bungarotoxin binding in several brain regions. The studies reported here examined the effects of different doses of corticosterone on brain alpha-bungarotoxin binding. C3H mice were adrenalectomized and treated with corticosterone-containing pellets (0.5-60%) for four days. Alpha-Bungarotoxin binding was measured in eight brain regions. Chronic treatment with corticosterone resulted in plasma corticosterone levels ranging from the low levels observed in an unstressed mouse during the daytime to levels significantly above those observed in mice during the night or as a result of stress. Adrenalectomy resulted in small increases in binding in hippocampus which was reversed by low dose corticosterone treatment. Chronic high-dose corticosterone treatment resulted in significant decreases in binding in four of the eight brain regions examined. Similar, but not identical, results were obtained in two other mouse strains (C57BL and DBA/2). These results argue that corticosterone levels play an important role in modulating the level of the brain nicotinic receptors that bind alpha-bungarotoxin with high affinity.
Delta opioid receptor activation is protective during hypoxic injury. Many adaptive responses occur during exposure to hypoxia to facilitate survival. It is possible that increased activity of the delta opioid receptor system is one such adaptation. We tested the hypothesis that mice exposed to prolonged hypoxia have increased expression of the delta opioid receptor in brain tissue. Prolonged exposure to hypoxia (9% oxygen, balance nitrogen) continuously for seven days selectively decreased delta opioid receptor expression in mouse brain homogenate. The same hypoxic treatment had no effects on either mu or kappa opioid receptor expression, indicating that this response was not due to non-selective degradation of protein. Shorter term hypoxic treatments (one day and three days) did not induce changes in delta opioid receptor expression in whole brain homogenate. Binding assays were also conducted in grossly dissected brain regions (cortex, midbrain, hindbrain) to determine whether the shorter term treatments would induce changes in receptor expression in more discrete areas. No consistent changes in delta opioid receptor expression were detected in these brain regions. These data demonstrate that opioid delta receptors are hypoxia sensitive and may be a part of an adaptive process to increase survival in the organism. One possible cause for the decrease in delta opioid receptor expression following seven days of hypoxic exposure may be receptor down-regulation caused by an increased release of endogenous substances acting at delta receptors. As delta opioid receptor agonists appear promising for therapeutic potential in management of hypoxic injury, changes in delta receptor expression in response to long-term hypoxia could impact potential utilization of delta agonists in patients suffering chronic hypoxia.
The opiate system is involved in a wide variety of neural functions including pain perception, neuroendocrine regulation, memory, drug reward, and tolerance. Such functions imply that endogenous opioid peptides should have anatomical interactions with limbic brain structures believed to be involved in the experience and expression of emotion. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, the messenger RNA expression of the opioid precursors, prodynorphin and proenkephalin, was studied in whole hemisphere human brain tissue. Different components of the limbic system were found to be characterized by a high gene expression of either prodynorphin or proenkephalin messenger RNA. Brain regions traditionally included within the limbic system (e.g. amygdala, hippocampus, entorhinal cortex and cingulate cortex) as well as limbic-associated regions including the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and patch compartment of the neostriatum showed high prodynorphin messenger RNA expression. In contrast, high levels of proenkephalin messenger RNA were more widely expressed in the hypothalamus, periaqueductal gray, various mesencephalic nuclei, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and ventral pallidum; brain regions associated with endocrine-reticular-motor continuum of the limbic system. The marked anatomical dissociation between the expression of these two opioid peptide genes, seen clearly in whole hemisphere sections, indicates that distinct functions must be subserved by the prodynorphin and proenkephalin systems in the human brain.
Unit activity in the magnocellular basal forebrain nucleus was examined to characterize discharge patterns during synchronized and desynchronized electroencephalogram. Two types of basal forebrain neurons were identified by their firing pattern under urethane anaesthesia: bursting and tonic neurons. Bursting neurons (62.9%) were characterized by a spontaneous firing that consisted of periodic bursts of two to six spikes that occurred at 0.3 to 2 Hz and were phase-locked with the electroencephalogram slow waves. Tonic neurons (37.1%) displayed spontaneous single spike firing at 12.1 + or - 1.6Hz. The firing of most of them was not related to the slow waves. Both neuronal types changed their firing patterns during the electroencephalogram desynchronization elicited by either electrical stimulation of the pedunculopontine tegmentum or pinching the rat's tail. Bursting neurons changed from the bursting mode to a tonic mode of discharge pattern, increasing their firing rate, while tonic cells were inhibited during electroencephalogram desynchronization. Multiunit recordings revealed that bursting cells discharged synchronously during periods of electroencephalogram slow waves, but that synchronization disappeared during electroencephalogram desynchronization. No correlation was found between the spike discharges of different tonic cells nor between bursting and tonic cells. However, bursting neurons, but not tonic neurons, were correlated with the spike firings of neocortical neurons during electroencephalogram slow waves. The rhythmic activity of neither neocortical nor bursting basal forebrain cells was found under pentobarbital anaesthesia. The characteristics of the discharge pattern shown by bursting basal forebrain neurons suggest that this type of cell could be cholinergic. Thus, bursting basal forebrain neurons may release acetylcholine in the cortex rhythmically, enhancing the rhythmic activity of cortical neurons during slow-wave sleep. It is concluded that basal forebrain neurons may contribute to the generation of the electroencephalogram slow waves.
Biochemical and immunocytochemical analyses were performed to resolve how glutamate and glutamine are handled in rat cerebellar cortex in acute hypoosmotic stress. Rats were subjected to a 15-20% reduction in plasma osmolality by intraperitoneal injection of distilled water and then perfusion fixed after 4 or 8 h survival. Some rats in the latter group had their plasma isoosmolality restored by injections of hypertonic saline 4 h prior to perfusion. Water loading caused a pronounced increase in the tissue level of glutamine and an equimolar decrease in the level of glutamate after 4 h survival. The increase in glutamine was transient, as judged by analyses at 8 h survival. Light microscopic immunocytochemistry revealed a pronounced enhancement of the glutamine immunolabelling of glial cells (Golgi epithelial cells and astrocytes), including their perivascular end feet, and quantitative immunogold analyses at the electron microscopic level showed that this enhancement reflected a 50% increase in the intracellular concentration of fixed glutamine. Since water loading was associated with glial swelling this change corresponded to a several-fold increase in the glial content of glutamine. There was a modest reduction in the overall staining intensity for glutamate. The biochemical and immunocytochemical changes were reversed upon restoration of plasma osmolality by hypertonic saline. These findings suggest that hypoosmotic stress causes an increased conversion of glutamate to glutamine in glial cells and that the latter amino acid is subsequently lost from the tissue. The flux of glutamate carbon skeletons through the glutamine synthetase pathway in glia, prior to an efflux to the systemic circulation, may explain how glutamate, and excitatory transmitter and potential toxin, can be used as an organic osmolyte in brain tissue.
Current theories regarding the mechanisms of degeneration of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons in Parkinson's disease suggest a pivotal role for excitotoxicity. In this study, the effects of chronic exposure of rat ventral mesencephalic slice cultures to the excititoxin N-methyl-D-aspartate, were investigated. Chronic (18 day) exposure to N-methyl-D-aspartate produced widely varying, dose-dependent effects. High doses (100 mu M) caused a pronounced toxicity upon tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons, with the surviving neurons possessing shrunken somata and stunted neurites: co-administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801, inhibited N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced toxicity. In contrast, exposure to a low concentration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (0.1 mu M), stimulated the outgrowth of tyrosine hydroxydase-positive neurites from the culture; this effect was abolished by MK-801. Chronic application of glutamate had similar, though not as pronounced, growth-promoting actions. However, the concentration of glutamate required was 1000 times that of N-methyl-D-aspartate, due to the presence ot high-affinity glutamate transport mechanisms. Cultures exposed to a submicromolar concentration of N-methyl-D-aspartate exhibited a significant resistance to subsequent exposure to a lethal (300 mu M) concentration of the toxin. It would thus appear that N-methyl-D-aspartate may have both trophic and toxic actions upon dopaminergic neurons in culture. Moreover, the ability of low doses of N-methyl-D-aspartate to protect neurons in this critical brain region may be of relevance to future attempts to arrest the degeneration associated with Parkinson's disease. The putative mechanisms of these phenomena are discussed.
In order to evaluate the effects of age upon fast transport kinetics, we studied the velocity of horseradish peroxidase transport along the optic pathway of neonatal and adult rats. Rate of horseradish peroxidase movement was assessed by following the displacement of horseradish peroxidase activity in the optic nerve with time after injection. We estimated a rate about 100 mm/day for bidirectional transport of horseradish peroxidase in the optic nerve of neonatal rats, while a two-fold higher rate was observed for anterograde transport in adult animals. Developmental regulation of fast transport rate may ensure relative constancy of the time required to connect the cell body with axon terminals.
The localization of galanin immunoreactivity was analyzed within the olfactory bulb of adult rats. Galanin-positive neurons were differentially distributed among the bulb layers. The density of stained neurons was highest in the glomerular and external plexiform layers. According to morphology, size, location and arrangement, a large proportion of galanin-immunoreactive neurons corresponds to external tufted cells and short-axon neurons in the superficial part of the external plexiform and glomerular layers. A smaller number were middle tufted cells and short-axons neurons while only a few short-axon neurons were labeled in the granule cell layer. Galanin-stained nerve fibers had different structures (thick fibers with or without varicosities, and thin fibers with or without varicosities). Among them were afferent immunoreactive nerve fibers entering the bulb through the olfactory nerve layer, but penetrating superficial layers. Correspondingly, a large number of galanin-positive axons (with or without varicosities) were observed in the olfactory nerve layer. A number of galanin-positive nerve fibers was also present in the glomerular and internal plexiform layers, while these fibers were scarce in the granule cell layer, their density was lowest in the external plexiform layer. These results suggest that galanin-positive axons present in the olfactory bulb originate from at least four different sources. From the periphery axon bundles enter the bulb together with olfactory nerve fibers from the rostral direction and with a fiber bundle from the ventral posterior surface, i.e. at the border between the olfactory tract and the main olfactory bulb along a large blood vessel. Central sources are local interneurons in the olfactory bulb and some extrabulbar brain regions. Double-labeling experiments combining acetylcholinesterase histochemistry with galanin immunocytochemistry did not show any co-localization of acetylcholinesterase and galanin in nerve cell perikarya or nerve fibers. Synthetic porcine galanin (1-29) promoted acetylcholine release in olfactory bulb tissue slices, suggesting that galanin can effectively modulate cholinergic transmission and perhaps other forms of neuronal transmission. It is concluded that galanin may be significantly involved in olfactory processing at cellular and synaptic levels.
The chronic consumption of alcohol significantly reduces the number of vasopressin-producing neurons in the rat supraoptic nucleus [Maderia et al. (1993) Neourscience 56, 657-672] suggesting this region is particularly vulnerable to alcohol neurotoxicity. As hypothalamic vasopressin producing neurons are necessary for fluid homeostasis, it is important to assess if similar changes occur in humans. We analysed arginine vasopressin-immunoreactive neurons in the magnocellular hypothalamic nuclei of ten chronic alcoholic men (consuming &gt; 80 g of ethanol per day) and four age- and sex-matched controls (consuming &lt; 10g of ethanol per day). Brains were collected at autopsy and fixed in formalin. Serial 50 mu m-thick-sections of the hypothalamus were stained and assessed. The volume of the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei and number of neurons were estimated using Cavalieri's principle and the optical dissector technique. The volume of these nuclei significantly correlated with the number of neurons and the number of vasopressin-immunoreactive neurons, and these measures significantly correlated with the maximum daily intake of alcohol. There was a loss of neurons at consumption levels greater than 100 g of ethanol per day, principally affecting the supraoptic nucleus although neuron loss also occurred in the paraventricular nucleus in cases with long histories of alcohol consumption. These results indicate that chronic alcohol consumption is toxic to hypothalamic vasopressin-producing neurons in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. As these magnocellular neurons are osmo-receptive, neuronal loss may result in fluid imbalances.
The presence and role of presynaptic GABA(B) receptors in the control of excitatory amino acid-medicated transmission were investigated (using sharp electrode recordings) in the rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and ventrobasal thalamus in vitro by comparing the effects of the selective GABA(B) receptor agonist, (+ or -)-baclofen, and of two antagonists, CGP 35348 and 2-hydroxy-saclofen, on the excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked in thalamocortical neurons by stimulation of the sensory afferents. Application of CGP 35348 alone blocked the GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potential evoked in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus by stimulation of the optic tract (n = 5), but had no effect on the resting membrane potential and input resistance of thalamocortical cells (n = 6). In contrast, 2-hydroxy-saclofen caused a hyperpolarization (6.9 + or - 0.5 mV, n = 10) and a decrease in the apparent input resistance (26.3 + or - 2.6%, n = 10). This effect of 2-hydroxy-saclofen was antagonized by CGP 35348. When bicuculline was present in the perfusion medium and following intracellular injection of QX 314, GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors in the recorded neurons were blocked. Under this condition, application of baclofen decreased the amplitude of the medial lemniscus- and optic tract-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the two thalamic nuclei investigated. This effect was fully antagonized by CGP 35348 and only partially by 2-hydroxy-saclofen. CGP 35348 alone increased (19.3 + or - 4.3%, n = 5) and 2-hydroxy-saclofen alone decreased (29.9 + or - 8.6%, n = 5) the amplitude of the excitatory postsynaptic potential. This effect of 2-hydroxy-saclofen was not blocked by CGP 35348. These results indicate that presynaptic GABA(B) receptors are present on the terminals of the sensory afferents in the rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and in the ventrobasal thalamus. These receptors are tonically activated by endogenous GABA, at least in vitro, and provide a negative control mechanism by which the excitatory amino acid-mediated transmission within these nuclei can be regulated. In contrast, the endogenous GABA level is not sufficient for a tonic activation of postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors. Furthermore, these results indicate that 2-hydroxy-saclofen acts as a partial agonist on postsynaptic CGP 35348-sensitive GABA(B) receptors, and that, in addition to its antagonist action on presynaptic CGP 35348-sensitive GABA(B) receptors, it also has an effect on either presynaptic, CGP 35348-insensitive GABA(B) receptors and/or another presynaptic receptor type.
Striatal and cortical projections arising from the central lateral thalamic nucleus were studied in rats by tracing the axons of small pools of neurons labeled anterogradely with biocytin. Cells of the central lateral nucleus have a morphology that conforms to the classic descriptions of the bushy cells which represent the main neuronal type of most thalamic nuclei. They display many short radiating dendrites studded with sessile spines, protrusions and grapelike appendages. The total extent of their dendritic fields is about 250 mu m. After leaving the nucleus, all central lateral axons course through the rostrolateral pole of the thalamic reticular nucleus, where they branch profusely, enter the striatum, where they distribute collaterals, and arborize in the motor cortex. At striatal level, central lateral fibers form a loosely organized network composed of varicose axonal branches that appear to contact en passant several striatal neurons. In the cortex. central lateral axons from multiple (four to five patches of terminations in layers Va and III aligned along the rostrocaudal extent of the motor area. The projection to layers I and II is very sparse, consisting of occasional branches which show few ramifications. Our results indicate that most, and perhaps all, central lateral relay neurons project to both the striatum and cerebral cortex. The patchy innervation of mid cortical layers of the frontal motor areas by central lateral afferents strongly argues against the nonspecific character of this projection. It is proposed that the central lateral nucleus, which receives a strong innervation from brainstem cholinergic afferents, takes part in a mechanism of attention related to the central initiation of directed patterns of movements.
The effect of histamine on N-methyl-D-aspartate currents was investigated in pyramidal neurons in the CA1 region of acute hippocampal slices from juvenile rats. The objective was to compare histamine effects in the slice with those previously reported in acutely dissociated and cultured hippocampal neurons. Micromolar concentrations of histamine had no effect on N-methyl-D-aspartate mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents in the slice, in contrast to the large enhancement seen in culture under identical conditions. However, millimolar concentrations of histamine blocked these currents both in the slice and in culture. Possible reasons for the lack of enhancement in the slice were explored as follows. (1) Histamine could not penetrate the slice or was already present at high concentrations inside the slice. This was tested by recording N-methyl-D-aspartate currents elicited in outside-out patches pulled from the somas of CA1 slice neurons. Histamine still had no effect in patches, whereas the corresponding experiment for cultured neurons showed robust enhancement. (2) Slices release an endogenous ligand that binds with high affinity to the histamine site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, blocking its activation. This was tested by superfusing cultures with supernatant from homogenized slice tissue. Histamine enhancement was maintained in these cultures. (3) CA1 slices and cultures express different N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subtypes. The reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction technique was used to examine the expression of messenger RNA encoding N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits in the two systems. No difference was found in the whole-tissue expression of messenger RNA for the NR2A, 2B or 2C subunits or for the eight known splice variants of the NR1 subunit. It is hypothesized that the differential enhancing effect of histamine in slices and culture involves posttranslational modifications or other factors that modulate the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor/ion channel according to its environment.
Under control conditions, stimulation of area CA3 pyramidal cells in slices can produce inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in granule cells by a polysynaptic pathway that is likely to involve hilar neurons [Muller W. and Misgeld U. (1990) J. Neurophysiol. 64, 46-56; Muller W. and Misgeld U. (1991) J. Neurophysiol. 65, 141-147; Scharfman H. E. (1993) Neurosci. Lett. 156, 61-66; Scharfman H. F. (1994) Neurosci. Lett. 168, 29-33]. When slices are disinhibited, excitatory postsynaptic potentials occur after the same stimulus [Sharfman H. E. (1994) J. Neurosci. 14, 6041-6057]. The excitatory postsynaptic potentials are likely to be mediated by pyramidal cells that innervate hilar mossy cells, which in turn innervate granule cells. [Scharfman H. F. (1994) J. Neurosci 14, 6041-6057]. These pathways are potentially important, because they could provide positive or negative feedback from area CA3 to the dentate gyrus. However, it is not clear when the CA3-mossy cell-granule cell excitatory pathway operates, because to date it has only been described in detail when GABA(A) receptors are blocked throughout the entire slice [Scharfman H. E. (1994) J. Neurosci 14, 6041-6057]. Furthermore, the monosynaptic excitatory synaptic connections between these cells have only been observed in the presence of bicuculline [Scharfman H. F. (1994) J. Neurophysiol. 72, 2167-2180; Scharfman H. E. (1995) J. Neurophysiol. 74, 179-194]. Yet in vivo data suggest that a CA3-mossy cell-granule cell excitatory pathway may be active under some physiological conditions, because granule cells discharge in association with sharp wave population bursts of CA3 [Ylinen A., et al. (1995) Hippocampus 5, 78-90]. To address whether the CA3-mossy cell-granule cell pathway occurs without global disinhibition of the slice, and where in the network disinhibition may be required, the effects of area CA3 stimulation on granule cells was examined after focal application of the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline to restricted areas of hippocampal slices. A micropipette containing 1 mM bicuculline was placed transiently either (i) in the area CA3 cell layer, (ii) the granule cell layer, (iii) the hilus, or (iv) more than one site in succession. If a small segment of the CA3 pyramidal cell layer or the hilus was disinhibited, or bicuculline was applied to both regions, area CA3 stimulation still evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in granule cells. In fact, inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were enhanced under these conditions, probably because excitation of inhibitory cells was increased. When bicuculline was applied just to the area near an impaled granule cell, all inhibitory postsynaptic potentials evoked in that cell were blocked, but no underlying excitatory postsynaptic potential was uncovered. If bicuculline was applied focally to either area CA3 or the hilus and the impaled granule cell, CA3 stimulation subsequently evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials in that granule cell, presumably because excitatory neurons innervating granule cells were disinhibited while the effects of inhibitory cells on granule cells were blocked. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials were produced without bicuculline application in three of seven cells, simply by stimulating the fimbria repetitively. Thus, if bicuculline is applied to different sites in the slice, different effects occur on the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials of granule cells that are evoked by a fimbria stimulus. If bicuculline is applied to both the granule cell soma and either area CA3 or the hilus, inhibitory postsynaptic potentials are reduced, and reveal that excitatory postsynaptic potentials can be produced by the same stimulus. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
6-Hydroxydopamine-induced nerve terminal lesion of the nigrostriatal system may provide a partial lesion model of Parkinson's disease useful for the assessment of neuroprotective treatments and behavioral recovery after therapeutic intervention. The aim of the present study was to assess the retrograde degenerative changes in the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra and the associated behavioral and neurochemical consequences of intrastriatal injections of 6-hydroxydopamine in young adult rats. Four groups of rats were stereotaxically injected in the right striatum with graded doses of 6-hydroxydopamine ranging from 0 to 20 mu g. Structural and functional deficits were quantified by tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive nigral cell numbers, striatal dopamine content, skilled paw use, and drug-induced rotation. The results show that striatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesions produce dose-dependent decreases in striatal dopamine levels and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cell numbers in the ipsilateral substantia nigra, accompanied by a significant long-lasting atrophy of the remaining dopaminergic neurons. Paw reaching test scores on the side contralateral to the lesion were non-linearly correlated with dopaminergic neuronal cell loss and exhibited a clear symptomatic threshold such that impaired paw use appeared only after &gt;50% loss of nigral dopamine neurons or a reduction of 60-80% of striatal dopamine levels. The behavioral, cellular, and neurochemical effects of the nerve terminal lesion thus bear some resemblance to the early stages of Parkinson's disease, where the severity of motor impairment is correlated with the loss of dopamine in the striatum and dopaminergic neuronal loss in the substantia nigra. Rats with intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesions thus provide a model of progressive dopamine neuron degeneration useful not only for the exploration of neuroprotective therapeutic intervention but also for the study of mechanisms of functional and structural recovery after subtotal damage of the nigrostriatal dopamine system.
The central part of the retina, which includes the fovea, is substantially overrepresented in the topographic map of the retina in the striate cortex. We tested whether this simply reflects the uneven distribution of ganglion cells in the retina in accordance with the &quot;principle&quot; of peripheral scaling, or whether there is additional expansion of the fovea and adjacent retina in the retinocortical projection. Wheatgerm agglutinated horseradish peroxidase was injected into the striate cortex of three rhesus macaque monkeys so as to surround the representation of the fovea at a mean eccentricity of 8.6 degrees, and the retinae were processed histochemically to stain the retrogradely and transneuronally labelled ganglion cells which projected topographically to the injection sites. This enabled regions of the striate cortex to be related precisely to corresponding regions of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and retina. Mathematical models of the distribution of ganglion cells in the retina, clipped, three-dimensional computer reconstructions of the striate cortex and lateral geniculate nucleus, and counts of neurons in the latter, were used to calculate the proportion of neurons allocated to the marked perifoveal region at each stage of projection. This was used to calculate the relative allocation of neurons to the representation of the fovea and surrounding retina among the different stages of the visual pathway. The values obtained showed that the cortical representation of the perifovea was expanded two to three times more than could be accounted for on the basis of ganglion cell topography in the retina, and that the expansion occurred both between the retina and the thalamus, and between the thalamus and the cortex. These results are inconsistent with the idea that peripheral scaling is a general principle of sensory representation in the cortex. They could also explain why many visual thresholds, including hyperacuities, cannot be accounted for by peripheral factors such as ganglion cell density.
We devised mathematical models of the topography of ganglion cells in the retina of macaque monkeys. The models consisted of a sum-of-three exponentials function fitted to measurements of ganglion cell density made on the nasal horizontal meridian, combined with known anisotropies across the horizontal and vertical meridians by means of elliptic interpolation to provide a full description of their density across the whole of the retinal surface. Integration using standard numerical techniques allowed the number of ganglion cells in arbitrary regions of the retina to be estimated. The topography of actual and effective total ganglion cell populations, and of primate alpha and gamma retinal ganglion cells, was modelled on previously published data. The models were used to test the hypothesis that the retinal projection to the striate cortex in macaque monkeys is peripherally scaled (i.e. merely reflects the eccentricity-dependent variation in density of ganglion cells in the retina) by comparing the cumulative proportion of ganglion cells with the cumulative proportion of cortical area as a function of eccentricity in the visual field. Discrepancies between the two curves indicated that the fovea and immediately surrounding retina are overrepresented in the striate cortex (i.e. there is more cortex per ganglion cell in and near the fovea than in the periphery), and the fact that the discrepancies persisted out to 25-50 degrees of eccentricity showed that the overrepresentation cannot be explained by the lateral displacement of foveal ganglion cells.
It is generally accepted that the widely used, partial dopamine D(1) receptor agonist, SKF-38393, does not induce immediate early gene expression in striatal projection neurons unless D(1) receptors are sensitized and uncoupled from D(2) receptors by 6-hydroxydopamine lesions or reserpine treatment. In contrast, this study demonstrates, using quantitative in situ hybridization, that the full D(1) receptor agonist, SKF-82958, induced robust expression of c-fos and zif/268 messenger RNAs in the intact rat striatum, especially in the entire shell and medial and ventral core areas of the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle, and in the cerebral cortex, 45 min after one injection. The induction of the striatal immediate early genes is characterized by (i) induction in only medium-sized spiny neurons, (ii) dose-dependent induction, which correlates well with dose-dependent increases in motor activity, and (iii) blockade by the D(1) receptor antagonist, SCH-23390. The muscarinic cholinergic receptor antagonist, scopolamine, which itself did not alter striatal gene expression, profoundly augmented the behaviors and expression of the two immediate early genes in the ventral and dorsal striatum induced by 0.1, 0.5 and 2.0 mg/kg SKF-82958. However, scopolamine attenuated basal, and SKF-82958-stimulated, expression of c-fos and zif/268 messenger RNAs in the cortex. Scopolamine also enabled SKF-38393 to induce locomotor stimulation and c-fos and zif/268 messenger RNA expression in the normosensitive striatum of the rat when SKF-38393 alone caused no such changes. These data demonstrate an ability of SKF-82958 to induce immediate early gene messenger RNA expression in normosensitive dorsal and ventral striatum. Furthermore, intrinsic muscarinic receptor-mediated cholinergic transmission in the striatum may provide an activity-dependent inhibitory control on striatal D(1) receptor stimulation.
Pretreatment with intermittent low-dose administrations of stimulants increases mesostriatal dopamine transmission upon administration of a challenge dose. This occurs without evidence of a long-term dopamine or serotonin depletion. The purpose was to examine whether pretreatment with low doses of methamphetamine enhances dopamine and/or glutamate efflux and the subsequent depletion of dopamine and serotonin produced by neurotoxic challenge doses of methamphetamine. Microdialysis was used to measure simultaneously extracellular concentrations of dopamine and glutamate in the striatum and prefrontal cortex of awake rats. Basal extracellular concentrations of dopamine and glutamate were unaltered following pretreatment with methamphetamine. The increase in methamphetamine-induced striatal dopamine efflux was not significantly different between methamphetamine and saline pretreated groups. In contrast, after high challenge doses of methamphetamine, dopamine efflux in prefrontal cortex was enhanced to a greater extent in methamphetamine pretreated rats as compared to saline pretreated controls. Acute methamphetamine did not enhance glutamate efflux in prefrontal cortex after pretreatment with saline or methamphetamine. The increase in striatal glutamate efflux was blunted in rats pretreated with methamphetamine. When measured 4 days later, dopamine and serotonin content in striatum was depleted in all rats acutely challenged with methamphetamine. However, these depletions were attenuated in rats pretreated with methamphetamine. An acute methamphetamine challenge did not affect dopamine tissue content in the prefrontal cortex of any rats. Serotonin content in cortex was depleted in all groups following the methamphetamine challenge administration, but these depletions were diminished in methamphetamine-pretreated rats. These results are the first evidence that an intermittent pretreatment regimen with low doses of methamphetamine, followed by a 1 week withdrawal, reduces the vulnerability of striatal dopamine and serotonin terminals and cortical serotonin terminals to methamphetamine neurotoxicity. These findings provide evidence for the mechanism leading to methamphetamine neurotoxicity.
The effects of chronic alcohol consumption on regional brain glucose metabolism were examined in Balb/c mice using the [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiographic technique. Animals were given a solution of 12% v/v ethanol as their only source of fluid for either 6, 12 or 18 months and compared to control groups receiving either an isocaloric solution or saccharose or tap water. Alterations of cerebral brain glucose metabolism were assessed in mice who were returned to a non-alcoholic diet and allowed to freely explore a T-maze. The results showed that chronic ethanol consumption induced reductions of regional metabolic activity which were functions both of the duration of alcohol treatment and of the structure studied. Whereas a six month period of alcoholization did not induce any significant effects on metabolic activity, 12 months of treatment were necessary to induce the first observable and significant reductions in [14C]2-deoxyglucose labelling. These effects were mainly limited to diencephalic structures such as the lateral mammillary nuclei and the anterodorsal thalamic nuclei. The cerebellum was also affected but to a lesser degree. After 18 months of alcoholization, a generalized spread of the metabolic reduction to the entire mammillary complex (lateral, medial and posterior nuclei) and to the thalamic nuclei was observed. This same duration of treatment was necessary to induce the first detectable decrease of metabolic activity in the hippocampus. In agreement with data from human neuropathology, these findings confirm the particular vulnerability of diencephalic structures to ethanol and suggest that damage limited to diencephalic regions rather than to hippocampal or cortical areas could be primarily responsible for the memory disorders observed in Korsakoff's syndrome.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the possible contribution of the cerebral cortical oxidative metabolism to the cortical vasodilator action of the periaqueductal gray. In 70 rats with cervical cordotomy, we found that unilateral stimulation of the caudal third of the lateral longitudinal column of the periaqueductal gray with N-methyl-D-aspartate bilaterally provoked the greatest increase in cortical blood flow (laser-Doppler flowmetry and/or microsphere flowmetry). The response was widespread over the entire neocortical regions, elicited in a dose-dependent manner, with little change in arterial blood pressure. The flow was increased effectively by a submaximal dose of the amino acid (1 mM, 100 nl), attaining a peak increase by 99 +/- 41% of the baseline level (mean +/- S.D., n = 30), and was associated with an enhancement of the cortical metabolic rate for oxygen by 51 +/- 26%. We then compared the flow increase with that induced by cold exposure (by 52 +/- 29%, n = 27), the latter response being tightly coupled to an enhanced metabolic rate for oxygen (by 41 +/- 23%). It was thus found that the increase in cortical blood flow provoked by the subdivision was dependent on the cerebrovasodilator mechanism that may be coupled to the cortical oxidative metabolism to the extent of one-half, and on certain other mechanisms for the remaining half. In view of the fact that this particular region serves to generate vigorous defence reactions that involve flight behaviour, the region should also help to meet the urgent demand for an increased cortical blood flow, so as to prepare for the possible generation of cortical hyperactivity in coping vigorously with a threatening emergency.
Slices of entire forebrain hemispheres were taken from early postnatal rat pups and maintained as organotypic slice cultures. Basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, identified by histochemical staining for acetylcholinesterase, develop axons that grow rapidly into cerebral cortex. Ingrowth occurs by two routes: some axons course laterally from the basal forebrain region to reach lateral neocortex; others course dorsally from the septum to reach medial cortex. By one to two weeks in vitro, acetylcholinesterase-positive axons have extended throughout most of the cortical territory. In addition to basal forebrain cholinergic axons, the normally local circuit cholinergic neurons of the striatum also send axons into cerebral cortex. These striatum-derived axons can be distinguished from basal forebrain axons by their distinct morphological characteristics and by their different response to excision of the striatum or basal forebrain. Further, acetylcholinesterase-positive axons in cortex that originate from striatum appear to retract or degenerate after about one week in culture, while those from basal forebrain remain present and apparently healthy beyond two weeks. These data document the basal forebrain cholinergic ingrowth into cerebral cortex using this whole hemisphere slice culture system and also demonstrate different degrees of maintenance of cortical afferents that are derived from different subcortical sources.
The condition of the microvilli of the apical membrane in ampullary electroreceptor organs of the freshwater catfish, Ictalurus nebulosus, was manipulated by administration of hyperosmotic solutions (500 mM) in order to investigate to what extent the apical surface area determines the sensitivity and the shape of the frequency curves. Electrophysiological recordings demonstrated that hyperosmotic sucrose and glucose solutions reduce the sensitivity by 80%, and alter the shape of the frequency curves. The synaptic delay and the average spontaneous activity remained almost unchanged. Calculations with an equivalent electric circuit of an electroreceptor cell indicate that a reduction in apical surface area can account for these effects. Apparently, the sensitivity and the frequency curves in ampullary organs in freshwater catfish depend on the apical surface area. A hyperosmotic urea solution proved to be less suitable to investigate the effect of manipulations of the apical surface area. The almost total loss in sensitivity caused by administration of urea is caused by both shunting of the stimulus by leaky tight junctions and a reduced synaptic efficacy. The repetitive activity observed after exposure to glucose or sucrose must be attributed to malfunctioning of postsynaptic parts of the receptor organ.
A discrete mathematical formalism (d-space) which is specifically designed to investigate discrete aspects of behavior is applied to the foregut of decapod crustacea. This approach differs from continuous modeling techniques in that the analysis determines a structure in which the observed behavior of the foregut is constrained. A notation for the implementation of the formalism is developed as well as a coordinate system natural to the functioning of the gastric mill. The formalism is used to organize previous observations that suggest potential courses of further experimental investigation. A detailed analysis of observed chewing modes of the gastric mill is presented, along with a discussion of the overall organization of the interrelationships between these modes. The investigation also addresses the relationship between behavioral modes of a pyloric muscle found in the shrimp Palaemon. Two alternative hypotheses are presented to describe the relationship of the behavioral components of the gastric mill: an interlaced control scheme in which the components are freely exchanged, and a top-down control system where the chewing modes are rigidly separated into packages. Flow through regions of state space in time is found to be important in determining the relations between the discrete behavioral components. The behavior of the foregut, like that of other motor control systems, is shown to fit naturally into the d-space formalism.
Expanding on research showing that oxytocin originating in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus acts to decrease olfactory processing at the level of the olfactory bulb, we explored the importance of oxytocin acting on the olfactory bulb for the onset of maternal behaviour in Wistar rats. Experiment I was designed to test whether spontaneous maternal behaviour following natural delivery is blocked by bilateral infusions of a low dose (5 fmol) of the oxytocin antagonist d(CH2)5[Tyr(Me)2,Thr4,Tyr-NH2(9)]ornithine-vasotocin into the olfactory bulb immediately after the delivery of the first pup and again just before a test for maternal behaviour. Intrabulbar infusions of the antagonist markedly delayed the occurrence of all components (retrieval, licking, nest building, crouching) of maternal behaviour, whereas intracerebroventricular infusions of the antagonist were without effect on any component as compared with intrabulbar infusions of saline. Experiment 2 was undertaken to determine whether infusions of oxytocin into the bulb induce a rapid onset of maternal behaviour in virgin rats. Forty-eight hours before pup presentation virgins were ovariectomized and treated with oestradiol benzoate. Immediately before pup presentation a low dose (20 pmol) of oxytocin or saline was infused bilaterally into the bulb or lateral ventricle. Intrabulbar infusions of oxytocin induced full maternal behaviour in half of the animals tested within 2 h of pup exposure, in contrast to the ineffectiveness of intracerebroventricular infusions of oxytocin and intrabulbar infusions of saline. These results suggest that the olfactory bulb is a critical site where oxytocin acts to induce a rapid onset of maternal behaviour.
The effects of electrical stimulation of the hypothalamus paraventricular nucleus on the spontaneous firing of mitral and granule cells in the main olfactory bulb were examined in ovariectomized female rats under urethane anaesthesia. High-frequency stimulation (0.5-1.0 mA, 10-20 pulses at 100 Hz) of the paraventricular nucleus produced inhibitory responses in 80% of mitral cells tested and excitatory responses in 74% of granule cells tested, with latencies ranging from 2 to 150 s. Both responses were blocked by infusions into the olfactory bulb of [d(CH2)5, Tyr(Me)2]ornithine-vasotocin (10 pmol), an oxytocin antagonist, and mimicked by intracerebroventricular infusions (0.2 or 0.4 nmol) or microiontophoretic applications of oxytocin but not by intracerebroventricular infusions of vasopressin (1 or 2 nmol). Infusions of 0.5% lignocaine, a local anaesthetic, into either the medial olfactory tract or the medial forebrain bundle failed to block the responses of mitral and granule cells to the stimulation. Unilateral transections at various levels between the bulb and the paraventricular nucleus also failed to block the responses. There were cases in which significant responses of mitral and granule cells to the stimulation required 60 or more pulses after the lignocaine infusions or transections, however. These results suggest that oxytocin originating in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus reaches the olfactory bulb following its release partly into the cerebrospinal fluid and acts to decrease olfactory processing.
The sexually dimorphic area of the gerbil hypothalamus is essential for male sex behavior. To determine which aspects of mating activate its cells, or cells near or connected to it, we visualized c-Fos in the brains of male gerbils that had been exposed to various types of sex-related stimuli or that had displayed various aspects of sex behavior. Five groups of males were placed in familiar arenas containing sex-related odors. All subjects had previously mated in these arenas. For four groups, a female was introduced and remained with the male until he ejaculated, intromitted, mounted or sniffed her. Males in the fifth group remained in the arena alone. Males in a sixth group were placed in a clean arena in another room. These males were also familiar with this arena but had never encountered a female there. The seventh group remained in their home cages. The posterodorsal preoptic nucleus, the lateral part of the posterodorsal medial amygdala, the medial part of the sexually dimorphic area and the parvicellular part of the subparafascicular nucleus of the thalamus expressed c-Fos after ejaculation. Whether these cells triggered ejaculation or responded to it is not clear. The latter two areas also expressed c-Fos whenever males were exposed to the sex arena, but the sexually dimorphic area pars compacta did not express c-Fos under any condition. The medial core of the nucleus accumbens, the ventrolateral septum, the caudomedial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the medial/central part of the posterodorsal medial amygdala and the lateral part of the sexually dimorphic area also expressed c-Fos when males entered the sex arena. The ventrolateral part of the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus expressed c-Fos whenever males were with females. None of the 31 areas studied responded to mounting or intromission, but the zona incerta, the amygdalohippocampal area, the lateral part of the sexually dimorphic area and the area lateral to the medial part of the sexually dimorphic area showed progressive increases in c-Fos expression as mating progressed. The area dorsal to the medial part of the sexually dimorphic area, the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the ventral premammillary nucleus and the retrorubral field showed the same level of c-Fos expression when males were exposed to the non-sexual context as when they were exposed to the sexual one. While a projection to the retrorubral field from the sexually dimorphic area is critical for male sex behavior, the retrorubral field did not show a sex-related c-Fos response. The data suggest that brain regions involved in male sex behavior are involved in different aspects of it and that this can also apply to different subsets of cells in each area. The data also indicate that cells involved in mating do not necessarily show mating-related patterns of c-Fos expression. Thus, while c-Fos is useful for identifying areas involved in mating, or other behaviors, its characteristics could cause relevant areas to be overlooked.
The cellular abundance of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and somatostatin messenger RNAs was compared in the caudate nucleus, putamen and sensorimotor cortex of Huntington's disease and control cases. Neuronal nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA was significantly decreased in the caudate nucleus and putamen, but not in the sensorimotor cortex in Huntington's disease; the decrease in neuronal nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA became more pronounced with the severity of the disease. Somatostatin gene expression was significantly decreased in the dorsal putamen in Huntington's disease, but was essentially unchanged in all other regions examined. The density of neurons expressing detectable levels of neuronal nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA was reduced in the striata of Huntington's disease cases with advanced pathology; the density of neurons expressing detectable levels of somatostatin messenger RNA was similar in control and Huntington's disease cases. Neuropeptide Y-, somatostatin- and NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons were consistently present throughout the striatum across all the grades of the disease. Neuronal nitric oxide synthase and NADPH-diaphorase activity (a histochemical marker for nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons) co-localize with somatostatin and neuropeptide Y in interneurons in the human striatum and cerebral cortex. Although the neurodegeneration associated with Huntington's disease is most evident in the striatum (particularly the dorsal regions), neuronal nitric oxide synthase/neuropeptide Y/somatostatin interneurons are relatively spared. Nitric oxide released by neuronal nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons may mediate glutamate-induced excitotoxic cell death, a mechanism proposed to be instrumental in causing the neurodegeneration seen in Huntington's disease. The results described here suggest that although the population of interneurons containing somatostatin, neuropeptide Y and neuronal nitric oxide synthase do survive in the striatum in Huntington's disease they are damaged during the course of the disease. The results also show that the reduction in neuronal nitric oxide synthase and somatostatin messenger RNAs is most pronounced in the more severely affected dorsal regions of the striatum. Furthermore, the loss of neuronal nitric oxide messenger RNA becomes more pronounced with the severity of the disease; thus implying a down-regulation in neuronal nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA synthesis, and potentially neuronal nitric oxide synthase protein levels, in Huntington's disease.
The expression of enkephalin and substance P messenger RNAs was examined in the caudate-putamen of human post mortem tissue from control and Huntington's disease tissue using in situ hybridization techniques and human specific enkephalin and substance P [35S] oligonucleotides. Macroscopic and microscopic quantification of enkephalin and substance P gene expression was carried out using computer-assisted image analysis. Tissue was collected from six control cases with no sign of neurological disease and six Huntington's disease cases ranging from grades 0 to 3 as determined by neuropathological evaluation. The clinical and pathological diagnosis of Huntington's disease was confirmed unequivocally by genetic analysis of the CAG repeat length in both copies of IT15, the Huntington's disease gene. A marked reduction in both enkephalin and substance P messenger RNAs was detected in all regions of the caudate nucleus and putamen in Huntington's disease grades 2/3 when compared to controls; in the dorsal caudate few enkephalin or substance P messenger RNA-positive cells were detected. For the early grade (0/1) Huntington's disease cases, a heterogeneous reduction in both enkephalin and substance P messenger RNAs were noted; for enkephalin messenger RNA the striatal autoradiograms displayed a conspicuous patchy appearance. Detailed cellular analysis of the dorsal caudate revealed a striking reduction in the number of enkephalin and substance P messenger RNA-positive cells detected and in the intensity of hybridization signal/cell. These data suggest that both the &quot;indirect&quot; GABA/enkephalin and &quot;direct&quot; GABA/substance P pathways are perturbed very early in the course of the disease and that these early changes in chemical signalling may possibly underlie the onset of clinical symptoms.
The interaction between the glutamatergic and dopaminergic input in the nucleus accumbens was examined by studying the effects of dopamine depletion of the nucleus accumbens on the local field potentials, and the L-glutamate elicited responses of the nucleus accumbens in anaesthetized rats in vivo. A characteristic field potential in the nucleus accumbens is evoked by electrical stimulation of the fornix/fimbria fibres, with a monosynaptic positive peak at 10 ms (P10). Rats were unilaterally injected with 6-hydroxydopamine in the nucleus accumbens. The contralateral accumbens was sham lesioned. The rats were divided into short-term and long-term survival groups of one to two weeks and 24 weeks, respectively. In the short-term group, a striking increase (up to three times) of the amplitude of the P10 components, at the site of the lesion, compared with the sham lesioned contralateral accumbens and untreated rats, was found. The long-term group could still display a slight increase although on average this was not significantly different from controls. In the short-term group, at the centre of the lesion, the paired-pulse facilitation ratio was significantly smaller than at the more ventral, less denervated, border of the accumbens. These differences were no longer visible in the long-term group. Single-unit activity of the accumbens, elicited by the iontophoretical application of L-glutamate showed, in controls, a maximal firing frequency ranging from 5 to 40 Hz (mean 25 Hz), whereas in the short-term group more than 50% of the accumbens neurons fired with higher frequencies, reaching up to 90 Hz (mean 55 Hz). In the long-term group the firing frequency varied from 5 to 60 Hz (mean 41 Hz). No changes in threshold ejection glutamate current were found for both lesioned groups. In control rats the L-glutamate elicited responses of six cells tested could be suppressed by dopamine whereas in lesioned rats three of the six cells tested were unresponsive to dopamine. Intracellular recordings of accumbens cells in slices in 6-hydroxydopamine and sham lesioned rats, showed no significant changes in the intrinsic membrane properties, e.g. resting membrane potential, input resistance, spike threshold, action potential amplitude or duration. We conclude that dopamine denervation leads to an increase of excitability of the principal accumbens neurons. This is reflected by the increase of the firing frequency of these cells and of the amplitude of the evoked field potentials. The former is more likely of postsynaptic origin whereas the latter may also have a presynaptic contribution. These effects cannot be attributed to changes in intrinsic membrane properties of the cells.
In this study, we biochemically analysed the effects of the novel metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist trans-azetidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid and examined its role in hippocampal long-term potentiation. In cell lines expressing metabotropic receptor 1 or 5 subtypes, the compound stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis with EC50 values of 189.4 +/- 6.4 and 32.2 +/- 8.3 microM, respectively. In hippocampal slices, trans-azetidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid also increased phosphoinositide hydrolysis, yet failed to show any effect on forskolin-stimulated formation of cyclic AMP, even if 1 mM azetidine was applied. Since trans-azetidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (20 mM in 5 microliters) injected cerebroventricularly prolongs long-term potentiation induced by weak tetanization, a possible interaction with N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors was investigated using patch-clamp techniques. Neither facilitation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (500 microM) currents nor induction of non-specific currents was observed in the presence of 50 and 500 microM azetidine. Strong tetanus-induced long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus of freely moving rats was not influenced by azetidine. In combination with the antagonist (R,S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (200 mM in 5 microliters), however, the potentiation was attenuated and returned to baseline within 90 min. Blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors using 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (20 mM in 5 microliters) prevented the potentiation in controls, but not in the azetidine group, where normal potentiation was observed for both the population spike amplitude and the excitatory postsynaptic potential. These data suggest that (i) trans-azetidine-2,4- dicarboxylic acid is an agonist at glutamate metabotropic receptors; (ii) a facilitation of induction and maintenance of long-term potentiation via N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors seems unlikely; and (iii) pharmacological activation of metabotropic receptors prior to tetanization appears to bypass the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor dependence of the potentiation. In conclusion, a role for metabotropic glutamate receptors in both short-term and long-term potentiation is indicated by these data.
An endotoxic challenge produces pronounced effects on the immune, endocrine and central nervous systems. However, information on the brain structures and neurotransmitter systems participating in the physiological responses after stimulation of the immune system is still scarce. Using an in vivo microdialysis method is conscious, freely moving rats, the present study describes the effects of an endotoxic challenge on hippocampal serotonergic and noradrenergic neurotransmission. Rats were equipped with a microdialysis probe in the hippocampus, which enables the stress-free measurement of extracellular concentrations of serotonin, noradrenaline and their respective metabolites 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol. The behavioral activity was scored by measurement of the time during which rats were active (locomotion, grooming, eating, drinking). In the control rats a significant, positive relationship between the behavioral activity and hippocampal extracellular levels of serotonin, noradrenaline and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol was found. Intraperitoneally injected bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide; 100 micrograms/kg body weight) increased extracellular concentrations of serotonin, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, noradrenaline and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol, whereas the behavioral activity was largely reduced, thus disrupting the correlation between behavioral activity and hippocampal levels of serotonin, noradrenaline and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol. Intraperitoneal pretreatment of rats with the cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor indomethacin attenuated, but did not completely abolish, the endotoxin-induced increases in hippocampal extracellular levels of serotonin, noradrenaline and their metabolites. From these results it may be concluded that the hippocampal serotonin and noradrenaline neurotransmitter systems are part of the brain circuitry responsive to an endotoxic challenge. Moreover, arachidonic acid metabolites seem to represent important, but not the sole, mediators of the endotoxin-induced changes in hippocampal neurotransmission.
Functional effects of fetal hippocampal field grafts were assessed in rats with spatial learning and memory impairments following global cerebral ischaemia. Experiment 1 examined effects of grafts dissected from fields CA1 and CA3 at embryonic day 19 and from the dentate gyrus at postnatal day 1. Cell suspensions (15,000 cells/site) were implanted bilaterally at two points above the dorsal CA1 area two weeks after four-vessel occlusion (electrocoagulation of the vertebral arteries followed the 24 h later by occlusion of the carotid arteries for 15 min). Histological examination showed that CA1 neuronal loss (60-70%) was equivalent in all ischaemic groups and that 80% of CA1 and 60% of CA3 grafts survived and were sited appropriately in the alveus or corpus callosum above the area of ischaemic CA1 damage in the host, but there was no survival of dentate grafts. Results from rats with poor pyramidal cell graft survival were excluded, but those from rats with non-surviving dentate grafts were retained as an additional control group. Acquisition in the water maze was examined nine and 25 weeks after transplantation, and spatial working memory was assessed in three-door runway and water maze matching-to-position tasks 19 and 28 weeks after grafting, respectively. For water maze acquisition rats were trained with two trails/day and a 10 min inter-trial interval for 10-12 days to locate a submerged platform. Ischaemic rats with CA1 grafts learned the platform position as rapidly as non-ischaemic controls, searched appropriately in the training quadrant and were accurate in heading towards the platform, but were initially impaired on recall of the precise platform position on probe trials with the platform removed. Performance of ischaemic controls and groups with CA3 and non-surviving dentate graft groups was significantly impaired relative to controls and to the CA1 grafted group. The CA1 grafted group was also as successful as controls in matching-to-position in the water maze and substantially superior to the other ischaemic groups, assessed using three trials/day, with a 30-s inter-trial interval and a different platform position on each day. In a more complex matching-to-position task in the three-door runway, the performance of the CA1 grafted group was significantly impaired relative to controls, although superior to that of the other ischaemic control and graft groups. Functional recovery with CA1, but not CA3, grafts in ischaemic rats was replicated in a second experiment which assessed water maze acquisition and working memory at 10 and 14 weeks after transplantation, in rats with 90% graft survival. These results indicate that long-lasting, task-dependent improvements can be seen in ischaemic rats with CA1 fetal grafts in both aversively and appetitively motivated spatial learning tasks. The findings suggest that functional recovery requires homotypic replacement of CA1 cells damaged by ischaemia, rather than provision of structurally similar glutamate-releasing CA3 pyramidal cells.
Following 30 min of forebrain ischaemia in the rat, delayed neuronal death occurs in the CA1 sector of the hippocampus within two to three days, whereas neurons in other selectively vulnerable regions, such as the dorsolateral striatum, die within 6-12 h. In this study, we investigated cyclin D1 expression, which codes for a regulatory protein in cell cycle regulation, but it is also induced in sympathetic neurons undergoing programmed cell death. Cyclin D1 messenger RNA could not be detected by in situ hybridization techniques in brains of control rats, but was found at one and two days after ischaemia in regions of the dorsolateral striatum with neuronal degeneration. DNA fragmentation in this region, identified by the terminal transferase biotinylated-UTP nick end labelling (TUNEL) procedure, was observed from 6 h after ischaemia onward. In the hippocampus, increased levels of cyclin D1 messenger RNA were found at two and three days after ischaemia in the striatum pyramidale of the CA1 sector. This expression was associated with the occurrence of neuronal damage and TUNEL-stained neurons. By seven days cyclin D1 messenger RNA was found in hardly any brain structure. There was no temporospatial overlap of cyclin D1 expression with the expression of the immediate-early genes c-fos, c-jun, and mkp-1, a result which is clearly distinct from findings in sympathetic ganglion neurons undergoing programmed cell death. These results do not suggest a role for cyclin D1 in neuronal cell death following transient forebrain ischaemia. The similarity of the cyclin D1 expression profile with that of the microglia-specific CR3 complement receptor beta-subunit messenger RNA, and the results of combined in situ hybridization and microglia-specific immunohistochemistry suggest that microglia are the source of cyclin D1 messenger RNA in the postischaemic brain. Since cyclin D1 codes for a critical regulatory protein for progression of the G0 to G1 phase in the cell cycle and we did not observe prominent occurrence of DNA fragmentation in microglial cells in the hippocampus at time points when cyclin D1 messenger RNA was found, we suggest that cyclin D1 induction is involved in the onset of microglial cell proliferation.
The sprouting of peripheral sympathetic fibers into the septally denervated hippocampal formation is a well-characterized model of lesion-induced plasticity. While various studies have demonstrated the importance of nerve growth factor for evoking sympathetic sprouting, little is known concerning whether nerve growth factor continues to be required for maintaining innervation once it has occurred. In the present study we have addressed this point by (i) investigating the consequences of withdrawing exogenous nerve growth factor support from rats in which sympathetic innervation was enhanced by a nerve growth factor infusion and (ii) using blocking antibodies to interfere with the actions of endogenous nerve growth factor. The results of this investigation clearly indicate that a continuous supply of nerve growth factor (either exogenous or endogenous) is required to maintain sympathetic innervation within the hippocampal formation. Evidence is also provided demonstrating that the nerve growth factor must be made available locally within a given region to evoke and maintain the sympathetic innervation within this location. Axonal rearrangement within the developing and adult brain is believed to be an important mechanism underlying learning and memory is crucial for lesion-related plasticity. In various experimental paradigms, nerve growth factor has been shown to be an important cue for initiating axonal remodeling. In the current study, we have demonstrated that once such rearrangements have taken place, nerve growth factor may also be required to maintain them.
Neurotrophin gene expression in adult brain varies according to physiological activity and following brain injury, suggesting a role in neuronal maintenance and plasticity. However, the exact roles and mechanisms of action of neurotrophins in the adult brain are still poorly understood. We have recently demonstrated that neurons of the adult mouse dentate gyrus can develop a conspicuous morphogenetic response to intrahippocampal injection of kainic acid. This response is correlated with long-lasting overexpression of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene, suggesting a causal relationship between molecular and structural changes. To test this hypothesis, brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA were sequestered in vivo by administration of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides. When administered before 20 h post-kainate, antisense oligodeoxynucleotides totally prevented the kainate-induced neuronal hypertrophy, while sense or missense sequences had no effect. On the other hand, the hypertrophic response was observed when antisense administration was begun 24 h post-kainate, indicating an involvement of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in the initiation of structural changes, but not in their evolution. The hypertrophy was blocked by inhibition of tyrosine kinase activities by K252a, suggesting an involvement of Trk high affinity receptors. Administration of human recombinant brain-derived neurotrophic factor without previous treatment by kainate failed to induce any morphogenetic response. These results show that a short activation of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene can, in association with neuronal activation by kainate, trigger dramatic and long-lasting morphological changes in adult neurons. A physiological role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in adult brain could therefore be to link, by autocrine/paracrine action, activation of glutamate receptors and neuronal morphological adaptive responses.
Three neurotrophic factors associated with the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system were tested for their trophic potential to rescue degenerating substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons in adult rats with transections of the medial forebrain bundle. Axotomy of nigral dopaminergic neurons results in a retrograde degeneration of their cell bodies. Unilateral transections resulted in a partial reduction of the number of dopaminergic neurons as identified by immunocytochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase to approximately half of the number of neurons present on the intact contralateral substantia nigra. A similar percentage loss was found for the subpopulation of nigral neurons which contain the calcium binding protein calretinin. In contrast, the small subpopulation of neurons which contain calbindin was less sensitive to the lesion and showed only mild loss in the number of cells, which was reduced to 87% of control. Neurotrophin-4/5, transforming growth factor alpha or basic fibroblast growth factor were infused supranigrally for two weeks after transection. None of the trophic factors tested reversed the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive or calretinin-positive cells. In contrast, neurotrophin-4/5, but not transforming growth factor alpha or basic fibroblast growth factor, was found to reverse the axotomy-induced loss of calbindin-positive neurons and indeed increased the number of cells to 45% above control levels. In addition, neurotrophin-4/5 elevated the number of calbindin-containing neurons in intact unlesioned animals to 15% above control. These findings suggest that neurotrophin-4/5 selectively acts on nigral calbindin neurons following medial forebrain bundle transection and prevents these cells from degenerating.
The ability of lower vertebrates to regenerate an injured optic nerve has been widely studied as a model for understanding neural development and plasticity. We have recently shown that, in goldfish, the optic nerve contains two molecules that stimulate retinal ganglion cells to regenerate their axons in culture: a low-molecular-weight factor that is active even at low concentrations (axogenesis factor-1) and a somewhat less active polypeptide of molecular weight 10,000-15,000 (axogenesis factor-2). Both are distinct from other molecules described previously in this system. The present study pursues the biological source and functional significance of axogenesis factor-1. Earlier studies have shown that cultured goldfish glia provide a highly favorable environment for fish or rat retinal ganglion cells to extend axons. We report that the glia in these cultures secrete high levels of a factor that is identical to axogenesis factor-1 in its chromatographic properties and biological activity, along with a larger molecule that may coincide with axogenesis factor-2. Axogenesis factor-1 derived from either goldfish glial cultures or optic nerve fragments is a hydrophilic molecule with an estimated molecular weight of 700-800. Prior studies have reported that goldfish retinal fragments, when explanted in organ culture, only extend axons if the ganglion cells had been &quot;primed&quot; to begin regenerating in vivo for one to two weeks. However, axogenesis factor-1 caused the same degree of outgrowth irrespective of whether ganglion cells had been induced to regenerate new axons in vivo. Moreover, ganglion cells primed to begin regenerating in vivo continued to extend axons in culture only when axogenesis factor-1 was present. In summary, this study shows that glial cells of the goldfish optic nerve secrete a low-molecular-weight factor that initiates axonal regeneration from retinal ganglion cells.
The differentiation of neurons involves the establishment of distinct molecular compartments which regulate neuronal shape and function. This requires targeting of specific gene products to growth-associated regions of the neuron. We have investigated the temporal and spatial regulation of SCG10 gene expression during neuronal differentiation. There are two SCG10 messenger RNAs, 1 and 2 kg in length, which encode the same growth-associated protein. These messenger RNAs were found to be differentially regulated during the onset of neurite outgrowth in early rat cerebellum development. In PC12 cells, the two SCG10 messenger RNAs were shown to be differentially induced by nerve growth factor. Regulation of the 2 kb messenger RNA, but not the 1 kb messenger RNA, is dependent on the differentiation of PC12 cells, indicating that post-transcriptional regulation of SCG10 expression during neurite outgrowth. Spatial regulation of the 2 kb SCG10 messenger RNA distribution during brain development was examined by in situ hybridization. The 2 kb messenger RNA was found to be localized to the neuronal pole where outgrowth was occurring, within differentiating neurons in vivo. Intracellular localization of SCG10 messenger RNA was also observed in differentiating primary cultured neurons, with the 2 kb messenger RNA transported into growing neurites during the development of neuronal polarity. In neurons which had developed polarity, the 2 kb SCG10 messenger RNA was consistently found in the cell body and axon. This study demonstrates both temporal and spatial post-transcriptional regulation of SCG10 expression which is associated with neurite outgrowth. The directed transport and positional translation of SCG10 messenger RNA provide a potential mechanism for protein targeting and the creation of molecular compartments during neuronal differentiation.
The physiological activation of lumbar sympathetic nerves by air-jet stress produces a hindlimb vasodilation in conscious rats. Although the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester markedly reduces the duration of this air-jet stress-induced vasodilation, it does not prevent the initial fall in resistance. These data suggest that the vasodilation is initiated by the release of an as yet unidentified factor, whereas the vasodilation is sustained by the release of nitric oxide or newly synthesized nitrosyl factors such as S-nitrosothiols. At present, the possibility that neurogenic vasodilation may be initiated by the release of pre-formed pools of nitrosyl factors from storage sites within the hindlimb vasculature has not been addressed. We reasoned that if nitrosyl factors do exist in storage pools, then we should be able to demonstrate a &quot;use-dependent&quot; loss of vasodilation after nitric oxide synthesis inhibition which would be the result of a gradual depletion of the releasable pools of these nitrosyl factors. In the present study, we examined the effects of repeated episodes of direct electrical stimulation of the lumbar sympathetic chain on ipsilateral hindlimb vascular resistance in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats prior to and following administration of the nitric oxide synthesis inhibitors N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (10, 25 or 100 mumol/kg i.v.) or N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (50 mumol/kg i.v.). Three episodes of electrical stimulation of 3.2 +/- 0.4 V (20 Hz, 5 ms duration, 5 ms delay for 10 s given 5 min apart) produced pronounced and reproducible reductions in hindlimb vascular resistance in the ipsilateral hindlimb (-56 +/- 5%, -55 +/- 5% and -53 +/- 6%, respectively), but no changes in mean arterial pressure. Three episodes of electrical stimulation at 4.8 +/- 0.4 V also caused reproducible decreases in hindlimb resistance (-59 +/- 7%, -61 +/- 9% and -64 +/- 12%) and minor but reproducible decreases in blood pressure. The vasodilation produced by the first electrical stimulation at 3.2 +/- 0.4 V was completely abolished by a 25 mumol/kg dose of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (-11 +/- 9%). The initial episode of electrical stimulation at 4.8 +/- 0.4 V produced a pronounced fall in ipsilateral hindlimb resistance in the N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester-treated animals whereas the second and third stimulations produced progressively smaller vasodilations (-55 +/- 4%, -34 +/- 3% and -19 +/- 2%, respectively). The 10 mumol/kg dose of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester was not effective whereas the 100 mumol/kg dose produced similar effects as the 25 mumol/kg dose. The 50 mumol/kg dose of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine produced similar effects as the higher doses of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester. Those results suggest that lower intensity electrical stimulation of the lumbar sympathetic nerves produces vasodilation via the release of nitric oxide or newly synthesized nitrosyl factors such as S-nitrosothiols. In contrast, the vasodilation produced by higher intensity electrical stimulation may involve the mobilization and release of pre-formed pools of nitrosyl factors which undergo a &quot;use-dependent&quot; depletion in the absence of nitric oxide synthesis. These pre-formed pools of nitrosyl factors may exist within the sympathetic nerves themselves. In addition, they may be stored within the vascular endothelium and released by neurogenically-derived neurotransmitters/neuromodulators.
The pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease is cell death of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, resulting in striatal dopaminergic deficit and a clinical syndrome dominated by disorders of movement. The cause for this cell loss is unknown, but the possibility of a contributing genetic factor is increasingly recognized. Homozygous weaver mice, a mutant mouse strain, display progressive postnatal depletion of dopaminergic cells in the mesencephalon and have thus been proposed as an animal model for Parkinson's disease. Recently, mGIRK2, a putative G-protein inward rectifier K+ channel, has been identified as the causative gene in the weaver mouse and a homozygous mutation has been described in the H5 pore region of this channel. The human homologue of mGIRK2, KCNJ7 or hiGIRK2, has previously been isolated on chromosome 21q22.1. A possible involvement of this gene in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease has been discussed. To evaluate the possibility of a shared genetic defect in weaver mouse and Parkinson's disease, we analysed the H5 pore region of hiGIRK2 in familial and sporadic cases of Parkinson's disease. The sequence was normal in all cases examined, suggesting a differing aetiology of nigral cell loss in Parkinson's disease and weaver mice.

Rapid eye movement sleep deprivation (REMSD) is a potent stressor in rats. Behavioral abnormalities such as passive and active avoidance, locomotor activity, problem solving, sensory information processing, and the development of adaptive copping strategy in response to repeated stress are among the earliest obvious symptoms of REMSD, the mechanism for which remain largely unknown. The aim of this study was to determine whether 96 h of REMSD causes changes in monoamine neurotransmitters concentrations in rat forebrain regions (frontal cortex, FC; parietal cortex, PC, and striatum) that are involved in mediating higher brain functions such as attentional mechanisms, sensory information processing, and locomotor activity, which are severely affected in REMSD conditions. Rats were subjected to 96 h of REMSD using inverted flower pot water tank technique. To account for the stress associated with water tanks, a tank control group (TC) was included where the animals could reside comfortably on a large pedestal in the water tank. Regional brain concentrations of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA), dihydroxyphenyacetic acid (DOPAC), L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), homovanillic acid (HVA), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (HIAA) were determined by electrochemical detection using high-performance liquid chromatography. The concentrations of serotonin and its metabolite, HIAA, was reduced in the frontal and parietal cortexes of REMSD rats compared with TC or cage control (CC) group. NE, DA, DOPAC, and HVA concentrations in FC and PC of REMSD animals were remained unchanged compared with TC or CC rats. A significant increase in the concentrations of DA metabolites was observed in the striatum of REMSD rats when compared with CC and TC rats. There was a 29 and 31% increase in the concentration of striatal DA in REMSD group compared to the TC and CC groups, respectively; however, these percentages were not statistically different. Striatal NE, 5-HT, and HIAA concentrations were not significantly different among the three groups. These results suggest that 96 h of REMSD alters dopaminergic and serotonergic systems in different locations in rat brain. The effect of REMSD on the serotonergic systems are localized in the cerebral cortex, whereas dopaminergic metabolism is increased in the striatum.
Three cases of deep cerebral vein thrombosis presenting as encephalitic illnesses are described. Thyrotoxicosis was present in one case, ulcerative colitis in one case and an anticardiolipin antibody was detected in two cases. All three patients were on oestrogen and progesterone. Magnetic resonance imaging and angiography allowed rapid confirmation of the diagnosis and permitted non-invasive follow up of this condition. The first two patients made complete clinical recoveries despite having thalamic infarction, in one case bilaterally, demonstrable radiologically.
In an attempt to answer the question, &quot;what is affect?&quot;, this paper considers Freud's metapsychological formulation in the light of recent developments in psychoanalysis and neuroscience. It argues that the problem of affect-perhaps more than any other-forces us to acknowledge the intrinsic connexion between mind and body, and to accommodate it in our theoretical formulations. A review of the problem from this point of view leads to the following formulation: affect is a primary sensory modality, analogous to the senses of vision, hearing, somatic sensation, taste, and smell. These modalities are the elementary constituents of the envelope of consciousness, from which it is impossible to free ourselves. Whereas the sensory modalities of vision, hearing, somatic sensation, taste, and smell represent aspects of the external object world (&quot;unknowable&quot; in itself), affect is the primary sensory modality through which we perceive as aspect of the internal world of the subject (&quot;unconscious&quot; in itself).
The serotonin (5-HT) 1B receptor in rats and mice appears to be homologous to the 5-HT1D receptor found in other mammals, such as guinea pigs and humans. The present series of experiments explored the functional similarity between the rat 5-HT1B receptor and the guinea pig 5-HT1D receptor on two behavioral measures known to be influenced by 5-HT1B receptor manipulations in rats: prepulse inhibition of the startle response (PPI) and locomotor activity. Because the 5-HT1B agonist RU 24969 disrupts PPI and stimulates locomotor behavior in rats, it was predicted that the 5-HT1D agonist, SDZ 219-964, would demonstrate a similar behavioral profile in guinea pigs. In support of this hypothesis, SDZ 219-964 was found to disrupt PPI dose-dependently (1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg) without significantly affecting startle amplitude and to increase locomotor activity (0.5-2.0 mg/kg) in guinea pigs. In guinea pigs, RU 24969 failed to affect PPI, although it did increase locomotor activity, indicating that RU 24969 may have activity at the 5-HT1D receptor. As expected, RU 24969 in rats disrupted PPI (2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg) and significantly increased locomotor activity (1.25-5.0 mg/kg). In rats, however, SDZ 219-964 had generalized, stimulatory effects on startle reactivity, without independent effects on PPI or locomotor activity. The spatial patterns of locomotion exhibited by guinea pigs treated with SDZ 219-964 versus those of rats treated with RU 24969 demonstrate important qualitative differences in structure, indicating that the neural substrates subserving these effects may be different. It is concluded that a functional similarity exists between 5-HT1D and 5-HT1B receptors with regard to the modulation of sensorimotor inhibition and, to a lesser extent, locomotor activity.
The aim of the study was to evaluate knowledge and perceptions of brain tumours in a heterogeneous, highly educated group of adults living in Edinburgh. Two hundred and forty four respondents answered a questionnaire about the causes, effects and treatments of brain tumours. There were misconceptions about several clinical and biological aspects of intracranial tumours although most respondents were aware of the bleak prognosis associated with many neoplasms. These results, from the intellectual elite of Scotland's capital, suggest that access to information about brain tumours should be readily available. Five leaflets, covering various aspects of brain tumours, that are available through the recently established Scottish charity Brain Tumour Action seem well formulated to address areas of concern and misconception.

There is enthusiasm for the application of knowledge concerning neurotrophins and other growth factors to human neurologic disease. New neurotrophins and other growth factors or inflammatory mediators that influence neurons and axons have been recently identified. Diabetic neuropathy may be an ideal testing ground for these substances because specific neurotrophins and growth factors could theoretically prevent loss of diabetic dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells or enhance regeneration of diabetic nerves. Several of the neurotrophins support DRG cells in culture or prevent their loss during neonatal development, and a few help prevent retrograde loss of adult DRG cells after axotomy. Early Phase I trials suggest that nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and neurotrophin-3 are reasonably safe agents as administered in short-term trials to humans, but there are lingering experimental doubts. For example, it has not been established whether DRG cells are targeted by diabetes. Additional work suggests that simultaneous and sequential cocktails of trophins are required to support and rescue neurons and that the use of single agents may not be sufficient. Finally, it in uncertain whether trophins might act as a general tonic for DRG cells to prevent diabetes-related injury or whether they are actually deficient in human diabetic patients.

Epidepride is a benzamide with high affinity for central D2- and D3-dopamine receptors. The anatomical distribution of [125I]epidepride binding was examined by autoradiography, using postmortem human whole-hemisphere cryosections. The density of [125I]epidepride binding sites was high in caudate nucleus and putamen. [125I]epidepride also labeled receptors in extrastriatal region such as in the pallidum, some thalamic nuclei, the neocortex, and the substantia nigra. The neocortical binding was heterogeneously distributed. In most cortical regions, binding sites were located in superficial layers (I-II). However, in basal levels of the occipital cortex, [125I]epidepride binding was located in a deeper layer, probably corresponding to layer V. Competition studies indicated that most of the [125I]epidepride binding represented predominantly D2-dopamine receptors, in striatal as well as in extrastriatal regions. The presence of extrastriatal D2-dopamine receptor populations is of particular interest for research on schizophrenia and antipsychotic drug action.

A large problem in drug discovery is to find relevant in vitro or in vivo animal models and to be able to extrapolate the results obtained to humans. Drug research now benefits from the fast development of imaging technologies that trace radiolabelled molecules directly in the human brain. Positron emission tomography (PET) and allied techniques use molecules that are labelled with short-lived radioisotopes and injected intravenously. The most straightforward approach is to radiolabel a new potential drug and then to trace its anatomical distribution and binding in the brain. An indirect approach is to study how the unlabelled drug inhibits specific radioligand binding. The demonstration of quantitative relationships between drug binding in vivo and drug effects in patients is used to validate targets for drug action and to optimize clinical treatment.
In the present study, experimental exposures to hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) were performed (30-min exposure to 2.8 bar pure oxygen). During all phases of the experiment the electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded continuously for on-line visual monitoring and off-line quantitative analysis. Conventional and quantitative EEG findings are described for a group of 23 subjects during an uncomplicated HBO exposure and for one subject who had a generalized tonic-clinic seizure when exposed to HBO. In the group of subjects who did not show signs of toxicity, EEG changes were minor and were not considered indicative of an adverse effect of HBO on the brain during the HBO exposure. Pre-convulsive EEG changes were detected in the subject with the seizure but were too insignificant for practical monitoring purposes and did not clearly herald clinical signs.
Isodipole textures are pairs of texture ensembles whose autocorrelations, and hence power spectra, are equal. Examples of readily discriminable isodipole textures are well known. Such discriminations appear to require feature extraction, since the isodipole condition eliminates ensemble differences in spatial frequency content. We studied the effects of phase decorrelation on VEP indices of discrimination of isodipole texture pairs. Phase decorrelation, which ranged from 0.125 pi radians (slight randomization) to pi radians (complete randomization), was introduced in two ways: by independent jittering of each spatial Fourier component, and by a product method, which preserved correlations among certain quadruples of spatial Fourier components, despite pairwise decorrelation. For the even/random isodipole texture pair, independent phase decorrelation greater than 0.5 pi radians markedly reduced VEP indices of texture discrimination for all check sizes, and eliminated them entirely for check sizes of 8 min or greater. However, the product method preserved texture discrimination signals even with complete pairwise randomization of spatial phases. For the triangle/random isodipole texture pair, both kinds of phase decorrelation eliminated VEP indices of texture discrimination. These results imply that isodipole texture discrimination is based on fundamentally local processing, and not on global Fourier amplitudes-since the phase manipulations which eliminate texture discrimination preserve the Fourier amplitudes. The dependence of the antisymmetric response component (the odd harmonics) on phase decorrelation and texture type is consistent with a previously proposed model for feature extraction, and leads to constraints on how texture processing is modulated by contrast. The limited contribution of global spectral characteristics for small checks is consistent with a previously identified breakdown in scale-invariant processing.
An association between the epsilon 4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene (APOE) and late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) was recently demonstrated. In order to confirm the association and to gauge the ability of standard genetic linkage methods to identify susceptibility genes, we investigated 15 Swedish late-onset Ad families. We found an association of familial AD to the APOE epsilon 4 allele (P = 0.01) but no indication of linkage to the APOE region using 2-point linkage analysis, and only weak evidence using the affected pedigree-member (APM) method. Our results confirm an APOE epsilon 4 association with late-onset familial AD and indicate that susceptibility genes can easily be missed when using standard lod score and APM genetic linkage analysis.
The vulnerability of the rat brain to intracerebrally injected N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) drastically changes with age. We evaluated the developmental changes in the early and late responses to NMDA using 1H magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cortical impedance and histology. NMDA, injected in the striatum of rats at postnatal days (P) 4, 7, 10, 14 and 21, induced a significant age-dependent reduction in the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) of tissue water in the striatum and the cerebral cortex monitored 1 h later using diffusion-weighted MRI. The reduction in ADC amounted 65% at P4 with lower values thereafter and was about 30% at P21. NMDA similarly induced a reduction in the cortical extracellular space (by 50% at P7 and 10% at P16) as measured with impedance recordings. The progressive decrease in the effect of NMDA with brain development was also indicated by a decrease in the volume of tissue in which the changes in ADC occurred (50 mm3 at P4 and 8 mm3 at P21). The diffusion of extracellular tracer molecules Mn2+ or [3H]-(R)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionic acid (AMPA) injected in the striatum and monitored with T1-weighted MRI and autoradiography respectively showed a similar age dependence with the diffusion volume being twofold larger in P7 than in P21 brain. Thus restriction in diffusion during brain development may contribute to the decrease in NMDA-induced injury with age. The volume of tissue necrosis and gliosis, measured with T2-weighted MRI and histology 5 days after NMDA injection, was similar to that outlined by the ADC reduction detected soon after the insult at P4, P7 and P21. However, at P10 and P14 only 50% of the tissue showing a hyperintense signal in DW images displayed necrosis and gliosis 5 days later. This study shows that during development the early response to NMDA in terms of cytotoxic cell swelling (indicated both with impedance recordings and diffusion-weighted MRI) decreases with age. In addition, with maturation only part of the brain tissue acutely affected by NMDA does proceed into necrosis and gliosis, indicating an increased capacity of cells in the developing rat brain to survive NMDA-induced cell swelling.



It has long been known that nerves stimulate growth and maintenance of skeletal muscles in ways not dependent on physical contacts, but numerous attempts to identify and characterize the myotrophic agent(s) secreted by nerves have been unsuccessful. We here suggest that products of the neuregulin gene may be these agents. The neuregulins are a family of proteins made by alternative splicing of a single transcript to give as many as 15 protein products. One member of this family, glial growth factor 2 (rhGGF2) is a very potent stimulator of myogenesis in L6A1 myoblasts, giving a maximal stimulation of cell fusion and creatine kinase elevation at a concentration of 1 ng/ml (18 pM). The stimulation of myogenesis is not rapid, but it is prolonged, continuing over a period of at least 6 days. The effects of rhGGF2 are additive with those of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) or its analog R3-IGF-I, suggesting that the actions of these two myotrophic agents differ in at least one rate-limiting step. We have observed one possible difference; unlike the IGFs, rhGGF2 does not induce elevation of the steady state level of myogenin mRNA.
Neuronal death associated with plaque and tangle formation characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD) may result from an underlying defect of intracellular protein catabolism. In an attempt to identify the proteolytic enzyme types responsible for aberrant protein processing, we have composed the levels of activity of proline endopeptidase in brain tissue samples (grey/white matter) from frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital lobes, from normal control cases, and cases with AD, Lewy body dementia (LBD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). The activity of proline endopeptidase was significantly reduced in AD to approximately 65% of that of corresponding control tissue-this is of note since previous biochemical analyses have in general failed to detect altered activity of other protease types in AD tissues. However, this relatively selective reduction in proline endopeptidase activity in AD tissue (in terms of protease types investigated) is not specific for disease type, since activity was also reduced (65%-70% of control) in tissue samples from LBD, PD and HD cases. The data suggest that reduction in proline endopeptidase activity may be a characteristic of a generalized process of neurodegeneration. Although the precise cellular function of this enzyme in normal/ pathological tissues remains to be determined, the question arises as to whether pharmacological strategies designed to enhance proline endopeptidase activity in brain tissue may improve patient outcome in the above disorders.
We have reported that metastatic human melanoma cells utilize the alpha (v)beta3 integrin to adhere to lymph node vitronectin (VN). In the present study, the adhesion of human and rat breast carcinoma cells to lymph node tissue was analyzed. We have previously shown a correlation between the metastatic potential of breast carcinoma cells and an RGD-mediated adhesion to cryostat sections of peripheral lymph nodes; this adhesion could be blocked by an antibody to the integrin beta1 subunit. Here, we show that the metastatic breast carcinoma cells were significantly more adherent to fibronectin (FN) expressed by lymph node-derived stromal cells than non-metastatic cells. Metastatic cells also spread more rapidly than non-metastatic cells on FN-coated substrates. Using a combination of immunofluorescence microscopy, immunoprecipitation and blocking assays with integrin-specific antibodies, we found (i) that expression of the alpha3beta1 integrin on metastatic mammary carcinoma cells was specifically increased in comparison to non-metastatic cells and (ii) that the alpha3beta1 receptor was involved in the increased adhesion of metastatic cells to lymph node FN and in cell spreading on FN-coated substrates. Our data also suggest that the alpha5beta1 integrin, which is also expressed on the metastatic cells, did not contribute to this increase in adhesion. Our data implicate the alpha3beta1 integrin in adhesion to lymph node stromal cell FN and suggest that metastatic cells of different tissue origins (e.g., melanoma and breast carcinoma) may utilize distinct integrin-ligand combinations to colonize the same target organ.
The action exerted on non-L-, non-N-type (Q-like) Ca 2+ channels by immunoglobulins G (IgGs) obtained from two patients with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) was investigated in the rat insulinoma RINm5F cell line. LEMS IgGs reduced by 30-36% the whole-cell Ba2+ currents through Q-like Ca2+ channels at +10 mV without significantly modifying their voltage dependence and activation kinetics. Single- and multiple-channel recordings in cell-attached and outside-out patches of cells treated with LEMS IgGs showed no significant changes of the channel elementary properties but rather a decreased number of active channels per patch. This suggests that Q-like current depression by LEMS autoantibodies is mostly due to a down-regulation of functioning Ca2+ channels. In agreement with previous observations, LEMS IgGs also reduced by 20-33% the dihydropyridine-sensitive (L-type) Ba2+ current. The suggested down-regulation of Q-like channels by LEMS IgGs in RINm5F cells may have a functional correlation with the depressive action of LEMS autoantibodies on the P/Q-type Ca2+ channels controlling acetylcholine release from mammalian neuromuscular junctions.
Because convulsive seizures develop very rapidly from kindling sites in the anterior perirhinal cortex, we studied perirhinal efferents by using the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PhAL). PhAL injections into the anterior perirhinal cortex labelled a prominent network of fibers within the frontal cortex that was most dense within layers I and II and layer VI. As individual PhAL injection sites within the perirhinal cortex were restricted to one or two adjacent laminae, we were able to determine that layer V was the main source of the perirhinofrontal projection. This was confirmed by frontal cortex injections of the retrograde tracer Fluorogold (FG). Other cortical areas with densely labelled fibers following perirhinal PhAL injections included the agranular insular, infralimbic, orbital, parietal, and entorhinal cortices. Moderate to mild fiber labelling was also noted in the posterior piriform, temporal and occipital cortices, and the claustrum. Subcortical labelling was seen in the nucleus accumbens; fundus striati; basal and lateral amygdala nuclei; the &quot;acoustic thalamus&quot;; and the central grey. Several of these cortical and subcortical projections were bilateral. The different laminar origin of these perirhinal efferents is discussed. These results confirmed our prediction of extensive direct projections from the anterior perirhinal cortex to the frontal cortex in the rat. The significance of this projection is discussed with special reference to the anatomical basis of convulsive limbic seizures.
There is a confluence in and around the cavernous sinus of neural pathways innervating the intracranial structures. To determine the patterns of innervation, particularly of the cerebral arteries, we stained whole-mount preparations of the cavernous sinus and adjacent regions of the rat for acetylcholinesterase. The cavernous nerve plexus, with several small ganglia, mainly occupied the lateral wall of the sinus and extended laterally above the ophthalmic and maxillary divisions of the trigeminal nerve, in relation to the oculomotor and trochlear nerves. The cavernous plexus was connected to the pterygopalatine ganglion, the trigeminal ganglion, and the abducens nerve. The elongated pterygopalatine ganglion consisted of an orbital part, from which parasympathetic fibers ran to the cerebral arteries, and a cavernous part. Nerves from the lateral extension of the cavernous plexus ran rostrally into the orbit along the oculomotor, trochlear, and ophthalmic nerves, and caudally to the pineal gland along the trochlear nerve. Several branches also ran over the dura mater. Caudal to the cavernous sinus, we found two large nerves and a number of small nerves that ran between the nerves surrounding the internal carotid artery and the abducens nerve. These nerves may represent additional parasympathetic and/or sensory pathways to the cerebral arteries.
The amplitude of the acoustic startle reflex is normally reduced when the startling stimulus is preceded by a weak click or &quot;prepulse'. Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of acoustic startle has been used as an operational measure of sensorimotor gating or inhibition, and is reduced in schizophrenia patients and in rats with central dopamine (DA) activation. The DA agonist-induced disruption of PPI in rats may thus offer a useful animal model to study impaired sensorimotor gating in schizophrenia. We have previously reported that DA-glutamate interactions in the nucleus accumbens (NAC) regulate PPI. The NAC has at least two major subregions-the core and shell-that have distinct anatomical and neurochemical properties. In this study, we compared changes in PPI after manipulations of DA-glutamate activity in these two NAC subregions. Consistent with previous findings, infusion of the non-NMDA agonist AMPA into the NAC core subregion significantly reduced PPI, and this effect was opposed by systemic administration of the D2 antagonist haloperidol. Also consistent with previous reports, infusion of the non-NMDA antagonist CNQX into the NAC core subregion did not alter PPI, but its co-infusion with D-amphetamine (AMPH) attenuated the AMPH-disruption of PPI. In contrast, while PPI was reduced after AMPA infusion into the NAC shell subregion, this effect of AMPA could not be blocked by pretreatment with haloperidol. Infusion of either AMPH or CNQX into the NAC shell subregion reduced PPI independently. The PPI-disruptive effects of intra-shell CNQX infusion were not blocked by haloperidol. The present results suggest striking differences between the NAC core and shell subregions in their neurochemical modulation of sensorimotor gating of acoustic startle in the rat.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is known to stimulate survival of dopaminergic and spinal cord motor neurons. However, little is known of the possible immune sequelae of GDNF exposure, or that of other putative trophic factors. To address these questions we utilized in oculo grafts of spinal cord, wherein we could induce different levels of immune responses via allogeneic vs. syngeneic combinations. Adult female Sprague-Dawley and Fisher rats were used as hosts for allogeneic and syngeneic grafts, respectively. Embryonic age 14-15-day-old fetuses were taken from pregnant dams of each strain, and cervical spinal cords were removed and dissected. Pieces of the spinal cord were transplanted into the anterior chamber of the eye within each strain. At 5-day intervals, 0.5 microgram of GDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) or cytochrome c (CC) was injected into the anterior chamber of the eye and the sizes of the transplants were measured for the Sprague-Dawley rats. The same injections and measurements, but only for GDNF and CC, were carried out using Fisher rats. As expected, GDNF increased transplant survival and growth in both the Sprague-Dawley and Fisher animals. At day 41-42, all rats were sacrificed. Cameral graft appearance was evaluated by cresyl violet and immunohistochemically using antibodies against neurofilament (NF), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). To monitor immune responses, the following monoclonal antibodies were used: OX38 against CD4, OX18 against MHC class I (MHCI), OX8 against CD8, OX6 against MHC class II (MHCII), OX42 against CD11b, R73 against alpha and beta T cell receptor (TcR), and ED1. In the Sprague-Dawley grafts, significantly higher amounts of CD8+, T lymphocyte+, MHCI+ and MHCII+ antigen-presenting cells (APC) were observed in GDNF-treated transplants. These markers were also increased in NT-3-treated groups. There were two types of OX-42+ cells, one was the ordinary ramified microglial cell, the other appeared to be a phagocytic cell, looking like the interstitial proliferating variety. Interestingly, the phagocytic OX-42+ cells had the same distribution as ED1+ and MHCII+ cells. In contrast, there were few immunoreactive cells after GDNF treatment in the inbred Fisher animals, similar to the CC control group. These results suggest that GDNF and to some extent NT-3, can activate the immune system in allogeneic graft combinations, but that these trophic factors do not produce overt rejection, and do not per se induce immune responses.
Morphine stimulates nitric oxide (NO) release in human endothelial cells. To determine whether this mechanism also occurs in invertebrates, the mussel Mytilus edulis was studied. Exposure of excised ganglia to morphine for 24 h resulted in a significant dose-dependent decrease in microglial egress that was naloxone sensitive. In coincubating the excised ganglia with morphine and the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), an increase in microglial egress was observed, suggesting that morphine may stimulate microglia to release NO. Morphine exposure to these cells in vitro resulted in NO release (39.4 +/- 4.9 nM), a phenomenon found to be naloxone sensitive (10(-6) M; NO level = 5.9 +/- 2.6 nM) and L-NAME sensitive (10(-4) M; NO level = 2.8 +/- 1.8 nM). Opioid peptides did not stimulate NO release, indicating that the process was mediated by the opiate alkaloid selective mu 3 receptor. Coincubation of microglia with L-arginine or the superoxide scavenger, superoxide dismutase, resulted in significantly higher NO levels observed following morphine stimulation. Taken together, the data demonstrate that morphine can stimulate NO release in cells obtained from an invertebrate that represents an animal 500 million years divergent in evolution from man, underscoring the significance of this process and further substantiating the critical importance of morphine as a naturally occurring signal molecule.
The mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is implicated in the temporal organization of circadian rhythms in a variety of physiological, endocrine and behavioral processes. Since the environmental light-dark cycle is the main zeitgeber for many of these rhythms, photic information may have a synchronizing effect on the endogenous clock of the SCN by inducing periodic changes in the activity of certain groups of neurons. The present study was performed to investigate the diurnal profile of the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-producing neurons in the SCN of humans. No significant diurnal variations were found in the volume of the VIP subdivision of the SCN nor in the number of VIP-producing neurons. In contrast with the VIP cell population, the subdivision of the human SCN containing vasopressin-producing neurons has previously been reported to exhibit a distinct diurnal rhythm, with low values during the night and peak values during the early morning. These findings suggest that the expression of vasopressin, but not that of VIP, in the human SCN exhibits an endogenous circadian rhythm.
Three adenylyl cyclases (ACI, ACIII, and ACVIII) have been described, which are putatively Ca(2+)-stimulable, based on in vitro assays. However, it is not clear that these enzymes can be regulated by physiological rises in [Ca2+]i when expressed in intact cells. Furthermore, it is not known whether transfected adenylyl cyclases might display the strict requirement for capacitative Ca2+ entry that is shown by the Ca(2+)-inhibitable ACVI, which is indigenous to C6-2B glioma cells (Chiono, M., Mahey, R., Tate, G., and Cooper, D. M. F. (1995) J. Biol. Chem. 270, 1149-1155). In the present study, ACI, ACIII, and ACVIII were heterologously expressed in HEK 293 cells, and conditions were devised that distinguished capacitative Ca2+ entry from both internal release and nonspecific elevation in [Ca2+]i around the plasma membrane. Remarkably, not only were ACI and ACVIII largely insensitive to Ca2+ release from stores, but they were robustly stimulated only by capacitative Ca2+ entry and not al all by a substantial increase in [Ca2+]i at the plasma membrane elicited by ionophore. (ACIII, reflecting its feeble in vitro sensitivity to Ca2+, was unaffected by any [Ca2+]i rise.) These results suggest a quite unsuspected, essential association of Ca(2+)-sensitive adenylyl cyclases with capacitative Ca2+ entry sites, even when expressed heterologously.
The present study shows further evidence about the implication of neuropeptide Y (NPY) in nociception. The effect of NPY (1-36), when intracerebroventricularly administered, has been studied using two physical models of acute pain (hot plate test and electrical tail stimulation) and the formalin test. The animal response to these three pain models has been shown to be integrated at different levels in the CNS. A decrease in pain threshold was exhibited in both the hot plate test (10, 30, 60, 120 and 480 pmol of NPY i.c.v.) and the electrical tail simulation test (10, 30 and 60 pmol of NPY i.c.v.), while in the formalin test (10, 30, 60 and 120 pmol of NPY icv) the licking response decreased in phase I but not in phase 2. In these three tests NPY showed hyperalgesic or analgesic effects when administered at low doses, while at high doses it failed to induce any effect. Results show that the effect of NPY on nociception is clearly test-dependent and is only observed at low doses.
The entorhinal cortex provides the major cortical input to the hippocampus, and both structures have been implicated in memory processes. The dynamics of neuronal circuits in the entorhinal-hippocampal system were studied in slices by optical imaging with high spatial and temporal resolution. Reverberation of neural activity was detected in the entorhinal cortex and was more prominent when the inhibition due to gamma-aminobutyric acid was slightly suppressed. Neural activity was transferred in a frequency-dependent way from the entorhinal cortex to the hippocampus. The entorhinal neuronal circuit could contribute to memory processes by holding information and selectively gating the entry of information into the hippocampus.
Comparison of two seemingly quite different behaviors yields a surprisingly consistent picture of the role of the cerebellum in motor learning. Behavioral and physiological data about classical conditioning of the eyelid response and motor learning in the vestibulo-ocular reflex suggests that (i) plasticity is distributed between the cerebellar cortex and the deep cerebellar nuclei; (ii) the cerebellar cortex plays a special role in learning the timing of movement; and (iii) the cerebellar cortex guides learning in the deep nuclei, which may allow learning to be transferred from the cortex to the deep nuclei. Because many of the similarities in the data from the two systems typify general features of cerebellar organization, the cerebellar mechanisms of learning in these two systems may represent principles that apply to many motor systems.
We examined whether vasomotor neurons in the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus of the medulla oblongata might be responsible for an acute increase in arterial pressure, elicited by application of angiotensin II in the central nervous system, as suggested by others. In urethane-pentobarbital-anesthetized and ventilated rats, intracisternal administration of angiotensin II (1-30 nmol, infused over a period of 30 s) produced a dose-dependent pressor response, which was abolished by intracisternal application of [Sar1, Thr8]angiotensin II (100 nmol), an angiotensin II receptor antagonist. The pressor response, however, was neither preceded by nor associated with increased discharges of vasomotor neurons with slow- and fast-conduction axons in the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus and of lumbar sympathetic chain and renal sympathetic nerves. Intravenous injections of [beta-mercapto-beta, beta-cyclopentamethylenepropinyl1,-O-Et-Tyr2, Val4, Arg8]vasopressin, a vasopressin receptor antagonist, largely abolished the central angiotensin II-induced pressor response, while a blockade of ganglionic transmission with hexamethonium and disruption of descending sympathoexcitatory output were ineffective. We conclude that central administration of angiotensin II, under the experimental conditions and at the doses, evokes an acute pressor response largely through the release of vasopressin, not by exciting vasomotor and sympathetic neurons.


To analyze cell-specific brain gene expression, we have developed a PCR-based subtractive hybridization cloning method utilizing trace starting material, allowing isolation of novel genes expressed under specific conditions. Our previous studies indicated that local substantia nigra (SN) type 1 astrocytes elaborate an array of trophic molecules which support the survival of SN dopaminergic neurons. Therefore, the current study focused on astrocyte gene expression utilizing a type 1 astrocyte-enriched cDNA library. We report initial characterization of a novel cDNA, designated AT1-46, that is preferentially expressed in the olfactory-limbic system of the adult rat brain. Although AT1-46 is expressed widely in the periphery, it is regulated both developmentally and in a cell-specific fashion in the brain. Structurally, AT1-46 is predicted to encode a highly alpha-helical molecule with several domains of potential coiled coil formation, and exhibits a 28% amino acid sequence identity with the intermediate filament-associated protein, trichohyalin.
The present study was undertaken to examine the role of dopamine D2-receptors in the regulation of neurotensin release. Through a modification of the methods described by Maidment et al. (Neuroscience, 45 (1991) 81-93), we have developed a highly reproducible method of measuring changes in extracellular NT in the striatum and nucleus accumbens by in vivo microdialysis in awake animals. It was observed that calcium-dependent release of NT was evoked in both structures by infusing a high concentration of potassium. In addition, systemic administration of the D2 agonist quinpirole (5 mg/kg) induced a rapid increase of approximately 200% in extracellular NT levels in the lateral caudate and 30-40% in the nucleus accumbens. Conversely, treatment with the D2 antagonist eticlopride (0.5 mg/kg) reduced extracellular NT in the medial anterior caudate and nucleus accumbens 20-30%, but had no effect in the lateral anterior caudate. These data demonstrate for the first time that D2-receptors are important in the dopaminergic regulation of extrapyramidal and limbic NT release in conscious animals.
Using the indirect immunofluorescence technique, the distribution of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV (CaM kinase IV) was studied in dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) and the sciatic nerve under normal circumstances and after axotomy and nerve ligation. CaM kinase IV-like immunoreactivity (-LI) was observed mainly in small DRG neurons but also in some large ones with the immunoreactivity mainly confined to the cell nuclei and with varying levels in the cytoplasm. CaM kinase IV-LI was present in around 1/4 of all CGRP-positive neurons and in the vast majority of the somatostatin-positive neurons. The enzyme levels decreased markedly after axotomy. The enzyme was also observed in axons in the sciatic nerve and accumulated both proximal and distal to a ligation. The present results suggest that CaM kinase is not of direct importance for upregulation of neuropeptides in DRG neurons after nerve injury. In addition to a nuclear function it may also play a role in the peripheral processes of DRG neurons.
In the external granular layer of the cerebellum, the granule cell precursors express the transient axonal glycoprotein TAG-1, a molecule involved in adhesion and neurite outgrowth. Granule cells express TAG-1 transiently, just as they extend neurites before migrating over the radial glia. The present study aims to investigate whether the expression pattern of TAG-1 is altered when granule cells develop abnormally. We studied in vivo models in which Purkinje and/or granule cell defects occur during postnatal development. These include the cerebellar mutant mice staggerer and lurcher as well as rats irradiated during postnatal development. Neither alterations in Purkinje cell differentiation nor the related granule cell loss in the mouse mutants impairs the ability of the surviving granule cell precursors to express TAG-1. Also, early granule cell loss in the X-irradiated rats do not disturb the TAG-1 expression phase in the patches of surviving granule cell precursors. Ectopic granule cells found in the adult cerebellum of X-irradiated rats do not bear the molecule, although they are located in the most superficial part of the molecular layer, occupied by the immunopositive cells a few days earlier. Thus, TAG-1 marks a very precise stage of granule cell differentiation, and the inward migration process itself is not required for the cessation of the expression. We postulate that TAG-1 may be involved in local differentiation steps restricted to the deep external granular layer such as parallel migratory routes or synchrony of axonal growth.
During a critical period in early life, physiological studies reveal that either prolonged or brief periods of monocular occlusion induce similar plastic changes in the primary visual cortex (area 17) of the cat, leading to a nearly complete loss of visual responses from the deprived eye (Hubel and Wiesel [1970], J. Physiol. (London) 160: 106-154). However, the recovery of function is markedly different in the two conditions, being complete and thorough only after a brief period of monocular occlusion (Movshon [1976] J. Physiol. (London) 261: 125-174). In search for anatomical correlates that distinguish between these two experimental conditions, we compared the geniculocortical connectivity in normal kittens with that following brief (4 days and 6-7 days) or prolonged (&gt; 5 weeks) periods of occlusion of vision in one eye. Transneuronal labeling of the geniculocortical pathway revealed changes in both cases, and single afferent arbors reconstructed in serial sections were similarly shrunken after short or long periods of deprivation. However, a significant expansion of the geniculocortical afferents serving the nondeprived eye was evident mainly after prolonged deprivation. These findings provide further evidence for rapid, activity-dependent remodeling of afferents during development.
Afferents to the prefrontal cortex (PFC) from the hippocampal formation and from midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons have been implicated in the cognitive and adaptive functions of this cortical region. In the present study, we investigated the ultrastructure and synaptic targets of hippocampal terminals, as well as their relation to DA terminals within the PFC of adult rats. Hippocampal afferents were labeled either by anterograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) from the ventral hippocampal formation or by anterograde degeneration following fimbria lesion. Hippocampal terminals in the PFC, identified by either method, formed primarily asymmetric axospinous synapses, with a small percentage forming asymmetric axodendritic synapses. Dopamine terminals in the PFC were identified by peroxidase immunocytochemistry for either tyrosine hydroxylase or DA and formed primarily symmetric synapses onto dendritic spines and small caliber dendritic shafts. Spines that received symmetric synaptic contact from DA terminals invariably also received an asymmetric synapse from an unlabeled terminal, forming a triadic complex. Hippocampal and DA terminals in the PFC were not often observed in the same area of the neuropil, and no examples of convergence of hippocampal and DA terminals onto common postsynaptic targets were observed. Further analysis revealed that spines receiving synaptic contact from hippocampal terminals did not receive additional synaptic contact from any other source. However, when localized to the same area of the neuropil, hippocampal and DA terminals were often in direct apposition to one another, without forming axo-axonic synapses. These results suggest that 1) hippocampal terminals primarily form excitatory synapses onto spiny pyramidal neurons, 2) hippocampal afferents are unlikely to be synaptically modulated by DA or non-DA terminals at the level of the dendritic spine, and 3) appositions between hippocampal and DA terminals may facilitate presynaptic interactions between these afferents to the PFC.
Members of the E2F transcription factor family (E2F-1-E2F-5) are believed to be critical positive regulators of cell cycle progression in eukaryotes although the in vivo functions of the individual E2Fs have not been elucidated. Mice were generated that lack E2F-1 and, surprisingly, these mice develop and reproduce normally. However, E2F-1-/- mice exhibit a defect in T lymphocyte development leading to an excess of mature T cells due to a maturation stage-specific defect in thymocyte apoptosis. As E2F-1-/- mice age they exhibit a second phenotype marked by aberrant cell proliferation. These findings suggest that while certain members of the E2F family may positively regulate cell cycle progression, E2F-1 functions to regulate apoptosis and to suppress cell proliferation.
We investigated the role of kainate receptor activation in modulating the influx of Ca2+ coupled to the exocytotic release of glutamate in rat hippocampal synaptosomal fractions (P2). In whole hippocampus synaptosomes stimulation with domoic acid increased the intracellular free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in a dose-dependent manner with an EC50 of 0.16 microM, whereas the EC50 for kainate was 0.86 microM and for (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) was 43.04 microM. Stimulation of the synaptosomes with 10 microM domoic acid induced Ca(2+)-dependent release of endogenous glutamate. Also, in synaptosomes isolated from the CA3 sub-region of the hippocampus the domoic acid-induced release of glutamate was higher than that from the dentate gyrus (221.3%), from the CA1 (188.1%) or from the whole hippocampal synaptosomes (131.5%). These results support the existence of a presynaptic kainate receptor which may control the exocytotic release of glutamate in the CA3 sub-region of the rat hippocampus.
Time-dependent changes of nociceptive inhibition of hindlimb withdrawal reflex (WR) pathways were investigated in acute decerebrate spinal rats. Electromyographic recordings of WR of peroneus longus and extensor digitorum longus muscles were made. For each muscle, both short and long latency WR evoked by subcutaneous electrical stimulation and WR evoked by noxious pinch could be inhibited by noxious CO2 laser stimulation of a specific skin area of the ipsilateral hindlimb. The inhibitory effects and size of the inhibitory receptive fields increased spontaneously between two- and three-fold during the first 12 h after spinalization. The functional and possible clinical significance of the strengthened nociceptive inhibitory control and mechanisms underlying the changes of this control after spinal transection are discussed.
Sustained attentional deficits have been widely reported in groups of medicated schizophrenic patients, but less is known about sequential attentional processes in patients withdrawn from medication. The attentional performance of 12 medication-withdrawn schizophrenic outpatients was compared with that of 16 matched normal volunteers on a Stroop negative priming task. This task allowed examination of both within-trial and between-trial attentional effects. Compared with the volunteers, the medication-withdrawn schizophrenic patients showed normal within-trial attentional effects as measured by standard Stroop interference and facilitation. Across trials, however, the schizophrenics exhibited reduced negative priming compared with the volunteers and in some cases a complete reversal of sustained inhibitory processes. The findings suggest that a normal inhibitory tag occurred during initial selection in the patient group, but it did not influence a subsequent act of selection as was the case for the normal volunteers. Either inhibition decayed at an abnormally fast rate in the patient group or a separate facilatory tag dominated. In either case, priming effects linked to attentional selection were clearly abnormal in the medication-withdrawn patient group.

Deletions and occasional duplications in mitochondrial DNA have been known to be present in mitochondrial diseases and in aged tissues. The junctional sequences of the rearrangements must be determined for detecting duplication, but its procedures seem laborious for routine examination. The joint method of long polymerase chain reaction plus digestion by three restriction enzymes provides a simple method to detect and map the deletion sites of mitochondrial DNA.
Agmatine, decarboxylated arginine, is a metabolic product of mammalian cells. Considering the close structural similarity between L-arginine and agmatine, we investigated the interaction of agmatine and nitric oxide synthases (NOSs), which use L-arginine to generate nitric oxide (NO) and citrulline. Brain, macrophages and endothelial cells were respectively used as sources for NOS isoforms I, II and III. Enzyme activity was measured by the production of nitrites or L-citrulline. Agmatine was a competitive NOS inhibitor but not an NO precursor. Ki values were approx. 660 microM (NOS I), 220 microM (NOS II) and 7.5 mM (NOS III). Structurally related polyamines did not inhibit NOS activity. Agmatine, therefore, may be an endogenous regulator of NO production in mammals.
This study investigated event-related potential (ERP) indices of information processing in sufferers of panic disorder (PD). ERPs were recorded from 14 PD patients and 15 controls during an auditory target detection task. The task required subjects to discriminate infrequent target tones (p = .14; 2000 Hz) from frequent (p = .72; 1000 Hz) and infrequent (p = .14; 500 Hz) distractor tones. A frontal P300 (P3a) identified in the PD group was characteristic of activity that would be expected to novel, task-irrelevant stimuli and is consistent with junctional pathology involving the prefrontal-limbic pathways. This study provides psychophysiological evidence of an abnormality in PD of the brain's processing of physical changes in the stimulus field that occurs even under conditions of low stimulus load. It may assist in helping to understand the breakdown in information processing that occurs in PD under high load conditions such as crowds and supermarkets.
Simultaneous recordings of the left and right crus IIA of the cerebellar cortex in the rat have demonstrated that Purkinje cells of both sides can be activated synchronously by their climbing fibers. Because climbing fibers arise exclusively from the contralateral inferior olive (IO), this physiological finding seems to contradict the anatomy. To define the structural basis responsible for the bilateral synchrony, we examined the possibilities that bilateral common afferent inputs to the IO and interolivary connections form the underlying mechanisms. The bilaterality of the major afferents of the olivary regions that project to crus IIA was studied using Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin as an anterograde tracer. We found that the excitatory and inhibitory projections from the spinal trigeminal nucleus and dorsolateral hump of the interposed cerebellar nucleus to the transition area between the principal olive and dorsal accessory olive were bilateral. A second possible mechanism for bilateral synchrony, which is the possibility that axons of olivary neurons provide collaterals to the contralateral side, was investigated using biotinylated dextran amine as an anterograde tracer. Labeled axons were traced and reconstructed from the principal olive and dorsal and medial accessory olive up to the entrance of the contralateral restiform body. None of these axons gave rise to collaterals. The possibility that neurons in the left and right IO are electronically coupled via dendrodendritic connections was investigated by examining the midline region of the IO. The neuropil of the left and right IO is continuous in the dorsomedial cell column. Examination of Golgi impregnations of this subdivision demonstrated that (1) many dendrites cross from one side to the other, (2) neurons close to the midline give rise to dendrites that extend into both olives, and (3) dendrites of neurons in the dorsomedial cell column frequently traverse into adjacent olivary subdivisions such as the medial accessory olive and the transition area between the principal olive and dorsal accessory olive. Sections immunostained for dendritic lamellar bodies or GABAergic terminals showed the same pattern: the neuropils of the dorsomedial cell columns on both sides form a continuum with each other as well as with the neuropil of other adjacent olivary subdivisions. Ultrastructural examination of the dorsomedial cell column demonstrated that the midline area includes many complex glomeruli that contain dendritic spines linked by gap junctions. To verify whether the complex spike synchrony observed between left and right crus IIA could indeed be mediated in part through coupled neurons in the dorsomedial cell column, we recorded simultaneously from crus IIA areas and from left and right vermal lobule IX, which receives climbing fibers from the dorsomedial cell column. In these experiments we demonstrated that the climbing fibers of all four areas, i.e., the left and right crus IIA as well as the left and right lobule IX, can fire synchronously. The present results indicate that synchronous climbing fiber activation of the left and right crus IIA in the rat can be explained by (1) bilateral inputs to the transition areas between the principal olive and dorsal accessory olive and (2) dendrodendritic electrotonic coupling between neurons of the left and right dorsomedial cell column and between neurons of the dorsomedial cell column and adjacent olivary subdivisions.
An activity-dependent form of synaptic plasticity underlies the fine tuning of connections in the developing primary visual cortex of mammals such as the cat and monkey. Studies of the effects of manipulations of visual experience during a critical period have demonstrated that a correlation-based competitive process governs this plasticity. The cellular mechanisms underlying this competition, however, are poorly understood. Transgenic and gene-targeting technologies have led to the development of a new category of reagents that have the potential to help answer questions of cellular mechanism, provided that the questions can be studied in a mouse model. The current study attempts to characterize a developmental plasticity in the mouse primary visual cortex and to demonstrate its relevance to that found in higher mammals. We found that 4 d of monocular lid suture at postnatal day 28 (P28) induced a maximal loss of responsiveness of cortical neurons to the deprived eye. These ocular dominance shifts occurred during a well-defined critical period, between P19 and P32. Furthermore, binocular deprivation during this critical period did not decrease visual cortical responses, and alternating monocular deprivation resulted in a decrease in the number of binocularly responsive neurons. Finally, a laminar analysis demonstrated plasticity of both geniculocortical and intracortical connections. These results demonstrate that an activity-dependent, competitive form of synaptic plasticity that obeys correlation-based rules operates in the developing primary visual cortex of the mouse.
We studied the effect of ionotropic glutamate receptor agonists on the release of endogenous glutamate or of [3H]D-aspartate from reaggregate cultures (retinospheroids) or from monolayer cultures of chick retinal cells, respectively. Kainate increased the fluorescence ratio of the Na+ indicator SBFI and stimulated a dose-dependent release of glutamate in low (0.1 mM) Ca2+ medium, as measured using a fluorometric assay. Under the same experimental conditions, the release evoked by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA; 400 microM) was about half of that evoked by the same kainate concentration; alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxasolepropionic acid (AMPA; 400 microM) did not trigger a significant response. In the presence of 1 mM CaCl2, all of the agonists increased the [Ca2+]i, as determined with the fluorescence dye Indo-1, but the glutamate release evoked by NMDA and kainate was significantly lower than that measured in 0.1 mM CaCl2 medium. Inhibition by Ca2+ of the kainate-stimulated release of glutamate was partially reversed by the phospholipase A2 inhibitor oleiloxyethyl phosphorylcholine (OPC), suggesting that the effect was mediated by the release of arachidonic acid, which inhibits the glutamate carrier. Accordingly, kainate, NMDA, and AMPA stimulated a Ca(2+)-dependent release of [3H]arachidonic acid, and the direct addition of the exogenous fatty acid to the medium decreased the release of glutamate evoked by kainate in low (0.1 mM) CaCl2 medium. In monolayer cultures, we showed that NMDA, kainate, and AMPA also stimulated the release of [3H]D-aspartate, but in this case release in the presence of 1 mM CaCl2 was significantly higher than that evoked in media with no added Ca2+. The ranking order of efficacy for stimulation of Ca(2+)-dependent release of [3H]D-aspartate was NMDA &gt; &gt; kainate &gt; AMPA.
The combination of nerve growth factor (NGF) and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) rapidly induced the locomotion of PC12 cells by sequentially stimulating lamellar spreading, ruffling with pinocytosis, and polarization by retraction from the substratum. During migration, cells acquired long processes as a result of several undisrupted cell-substratum attachment points. The effect of NGF on PC12 migration was blocked by K-252a, a selective inhibitor of the trk family of receptor tyrosine kinases. When PMA was added to cells expressing pp60v-src, the cells displayed the same morphological behavior as they did with NGF and PMA addition. Activated ras only partially substituted for the effects of NGF; but, when ras was inhibited, the number of migrating cells decreased significantly due to a defect in spreading and retraction. Expression of an activated form of rac stimulated spontaneous growth of lamellipodia and enhanced cell migration in response to PMA. Expression of a dominant negative form of rac inhibited cell spreading and motility. Also, as a later effect, rac-inhibited cells extended much shorter neurites than wild type cells in response to NGF alone. These results indicate that the cytoarchitectural changes induced by NGF and PMA in PC12 cells are mediated by src, ras, and rac. Whereas ras and rac activation affect lamellipodia extension and retraction but not pinocytotic ruffling, src activation is involved in all three events.
1. The inhibitory cutaneous input to the withdrawal reflex pathways to single hindlimb muscles was investigated in decerebrate spinal rats (n = 53) using electromyography. 2. Withdrawal reflexes in the peronei, extensor digitorum longus and tibialis anterior muscles of the leg were strongly inhibited by conditioning mechanical, thermal (CO2 laser) and intracutaneous electrical stimulation of specific skin areas. By contrast, withdrawal reflexes in the biceps posterior-semitendinosus muscles of the thigh could only be weakly inhibited by conditioning skin stimulation. 3. Powerful inhibition of withdrawal reflexes in single lower leg muscles was elicited from the ipsilateral hindpaw plantar area, which would move towards the stimulation on contraction in the respective muscle. In addition, weak nociceptive inhibition was evoked from the corresponding skin areas on the contralateral hindlimb and, in some muscles, the tail. 4. The ipsilateral inhibitory and excitatory receptive fields of the withdrawal reflexes in single muscles overlapped somewhat. On stimulation of these transitional areas the reflex responses were preceded by a short-lasting inhibition. 5. Graded mechanical and thermal stimulation demonstrated prominent inhibitors effects from nociceptive receptors. Weak inhibitory effects were elicited by innocuous mechanical stimulation, suggesting a weak contribution from low threshold mechanoreceptors. Latency measurements indicated an inhibitory input from both myelinated and unmyelinated fibres. 6. In conclusion, the withdrawal reflex pathways receive a powerful nociceptive inhibitory input through spinal pathways. The movement-related organization of this input suggests that it serves to prevent inappropriate withdrawal reflexes.
1. The postnatal development of nociceptive withdrawal reflexes was studied. In awake intact rats, forelimb, hindlimb and tail reflexes were recorded on videotape. In decerebrate spinal rats, electromyography (EMG) was used to record nociceptive withdrawal reflexes in musculi extensor digitorum longus (EDL), peronei, gastrocnemius-soleus (G-S) and biceps posterior-semitendinosus (BP-ST). Thermal (short-lasting CO2 laser pulses) and mechanical stimulation were used. 2. In adults, nociceptive withdrawal reflexes were typically well directed and reflex pathways to single hindlimb muscles had functionally adapted receptive fields. By contrast, at postnatal day (P) 1-7, the nociceptive withdrawal reflexes were often inappropriate, sometimes producing movements towards the stimulation, and EMG recordings revealed unadapted variable receptive fields. With increasing age, the nociceptive withdrawal reflexes progressively became well directed, thus producing localized withdrawal. Both withdrawal movements and spatial organization of the receptive fields were adult-like at P20-25. 3. Up to P25, reflex thresholds were more or less constant in both intact awake rats and spinal decerebrate rats, except in G-S in which no nociceptive withdrawal reflexes were evoked from P20 on. After P25, mechanical, but not thermal, thresholds increased dramatically. 4. EMG recordings revealed that during the first three postnatal weeks, the latency of the CO2 laser-evoked nociceptive withdrawal reflexes decreased significantly in peronei and BP-ST, but not in EDL, and thereafter increased significantly in peronei, BP-ST and EDL. The magnitude of the nociceptive withdrawal reflexes in these muscles increased markedly between P7 and P20 and showed little change thereafter. 5. Possible mechanisms underlying the postnatal tuning of the nociceptive withdrawal reflexes are discussed.
A second isoform of the human vesicular monoamine transporter (hVMAT) has been cloned from a pheochromocytoma cDNA library. The contribution of the two transporter isoforms to monoamine storage in human neuroendocrine tissues was examined with isoform-specific polyclonal antibodies against hVMAT1 and hVMAT2. Central, peripheral, and enteric neurons express only VMAT2. VMAT1 is expressed exclusively in neuroendocrine, including chromaffin and enterochromaffin, cells. VMAT1 and VMAT2 are coexpressed in all chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla. VMAT2 alone is expressed in histamine-storing enterochromaffin-like cells of the oxyntic mucosa of the stomach. The transport characteristics and pharmacology of each VMAT isoform have been directly compared after expression in digitonin-permeabilized fibroblastic (CV-1) cells, providing information about substrate feature recognition by each transporter and the role of vesicular monoamine storage in the mechanism of action of psychopharmacologic and neurotoxic agents in human. Serotonin has a similar affinity for both transporters. Catecholamines exhibit a 3-fold higher affinity, and histamine exhibits a 30-fold higher affinity, for VMAT2. Reserpine and ketanserin are slightly more potent inhibitors of VMAT2-mediated transport than of VMAT1-mediated transport, whereas tetrabenazine binds to and inhibits only VMAT2. N-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, phenylethylamine, amphetamine, and methylenedioxymethamphetamine are all more potent inhibitors of VMAT2 than of VMAT1, whereas fenfluramine is a more potent inhibitor of VMAT1-mediated monamine transport than of VMAT2-mediated monoamine transport. The unique distributions of hVMAT1 and hVMAT2 provide new markers for multiple neuroendocrine lineages, and examination of their transport properties provides mechanistic insights into the pharmacology and physiology of amine storage in cardiovascular, endocrine, and central nervous system function.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder associated with expansion of a CAG repeat in the IT15 gene. The IT15 gene is translated to a protein product termed huntingtin that contains a polyglutamine (polyGln) tract. Recent investigations indicate that the cause of HD is expansion of the polyGln tract. However, the function of huntingtin and how the expanded polyGln tract causes HD is not known. We investigate potential protein-protein interactions of huntingtin using affinity resins. Huntingtin from brain extracts is retained on calmodulin(CAM)-Sepharose in a calcium-dependent fashion. We purify rat huntingtin to apparent homogeneity using a combination of DEAE-cellulose column chromatography, ammonium sulfate precipitation, and preparative SDS/PAGE. Purified rat huntingtin does not interact with CAM directly as revealed by 125I-CAM overlay. Huntingtin forms a large CAM-containing complex of over 1,000 kDa in the presence of calcium, which partially disassociates in the absence of calcium. Furthermore, an increased amount of mutant huntingtin from HD patient brains is retained on CAM-Sepharose compared to normal huntingtin from control patient brains, and the mutant allele is preferentially retained on CAM-Sepharose in the absence of calcium. These results suggest that huntingtin interacts with other proteins including CAM and that the expansion of polyGln alters this interaction.
Steady-state visual evoked potentials (SSVEPs) were recorded from the scalp of human subjects who were cued to attend to a rapid sequence of alphanumeric characters presented to one visual half-field while ignoring a concurrent sequence of characters in the opposite half-field. These two-character sequences were each superimposed upon a small square background that was flickered at a rate of 8.6 Hz in one half-field and 12 Hz in the other half-field. The amplitude of the frequency-coded SSVEP elicited by either of the task-irrelevant flickering backgrounds was significantly enlarged when attention was focused upon the character sequence at the same location. This amplitude enhancement with attention was most prominent over occipital-temporal scalp areas of the right cerebral hemisphere regardless of the visual field of stimulation. These findings indicate that the SSVEP reflects an enhancement of neural responses to all stimuli that fall within the &quot;spotlight&quot; of spatial attention, whether or not the stimuli are task-relevant. Recordings of the SSVEP provide a new approach for studying the neural mechanisms and functional properties of selective attention to multi-element visual displays.
Behavioral stress has detrimental effects on subsequent cognitive performance in many species, including humans. For example, humans exposed to stressful situations typically exhibit marked deficits in various learning and memory tasks. However, the underlying neural mechanisms by which stress exerts its effects on learning and memory are unknown. We now report that in adult male rats, stress (i.e., restraint plus tailshock) impairs long-term potentiation (LTP) but enhances long-term depression (LTD) in the CA1 area of the hippocampus, a structure implicated in learning and memory processes. These effects on LTP and LTD are prevented when the animals were given CGP39551 (the carboxyethylester of CGP 37849; DL-(E)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid), a competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, before experiencing stress. In contrast, the anxiolytic drug diazepam did not block the stress effects on hippocampal plasticity. Thus, the effects of stress on subsequent LTP and LTD appear to be mediated through the activation of the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptors. Such modifications in hippocampal plasticity may contribute to learning and memory impairments associated with stress.
NACP, the precursor of non-A beta component of Alzheimer's disease (AD) amyloid (NAC), is a synaptic protein that could potentially be involved in AD. We studied, by dot-blot, NACP levels in the frontal cortex of AD cases staged according to severity of disease and correlated them with cognitive performance and neuropathological markers. Early AD cases showed one fold higher levels of NACP immunoreactivity (IR) compared to moderate and severe AD. Levels of NACP-IR were correlated with tangle counts (r = -0.305, P = 0.04) and Blessed score (r = -0.356, P = 0.01), but not with plaque counts (r = 0.132, P = 0.39). This study suggests that the abnormal accumulation of NACP during the early stages of AD might play an important role in the mechanisms of neurodegeneration and synaptic damage in AD.
The effects of 5-2500 microM concentrations of neutral ammonium salts on the binding of ligands to components of the GABAA receptor complex were investigated. [3H]Flunitrazepam binding to the benzodiazepine receptor was enhanced by ammonium (10-500 microM), but not sodium tartrate with EC50 = 98 microM and Emax = 31%. Further increasing ammonium tartrate concentrations (500-2500 microM) decreased [3H]flunitrazepam binding to control levels. The ammonium tartrate-induced increase in [3H]flunitrazepam binding was manifested as a 50% decrease in Kd. Furthermore, GABA increased the potency of ammonium tartrate in enhancing [3H]flunitrazepam binding by 63%. [3H]Ro 15-1788 and [3H]Ro 15-4513 binding to the benzodiazepine receptor was not significantly enhanced by ammonium tartrate (Emax approximately 13%). Ammonium tartrate also increased, then decreased the binding of 500 nM [3H]muscimol to the GABAA receptor (EC50 = 52 microM, Emax = 30%) in a concentration-dependent manner, but had no effect on [3H]SR 95-531 binding (Emax &lt; 16%). The ammonium tartrate-induced alterations in [3H]muscimol binding were demonstrated in saturation assays as the loss of the high affinity binding site and a 27% increase in the Bmax of the low affinity binding site. These results indicate that ammonia biphasically enhances, then returns ligand binding to both the GABA and benzodiazepine receptor components of the GABAA receptor complex to control levels in a barbiturate-like fashion. This suggests that ammonia may enhance GABAergic neurotransmission at concentrations commonly encountered in hepatic failure, an event preceding the suppression of inhibitory neuronal function observed at higher (&gt; 1 mM) ammonia concentrations. This increase in GABAergic neurotransmission is consistent with the clinical picture of lethargy, ataxia and cognitive deficits associated with liver failure and congenital hyperammonemia.


We recorded neurons in rat cerebral cortex with activity relating to the neurogenic elevations in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) coupled to stereotyped bursts of EEG activity, burst-cerebrovascular wave complexes, appearing spontaneously or evoked by electrical stimulation of rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) or fastigial nucleus (FN). Of 333 spontaneously active neurons only 15 (5%), in layers 5-6, consistently (P &lt; 0.05, chi-square) increased their activity during the earliest potential of the complex, approximately 1.3 s before the rise of rCBF, and during the minutes-long elevation of rCBF elicited by 10 s of stimulation of RVL or FN. The results indicate the presence of a small population of neurons in deep cortical laminae whose activity correlates with neurogenic elevations of rCBF. These neurons may function to transduce afferent neuronal signals into vasodilation.
Memories are believed to be stored by synaptic modifications. One type of activity-dependent synaptic modification, long-term potentiation (LTP), has received considerable attention as a possible memory mechanism, particularly in hippocampus. However, use-dependent decreases in synaptic strength can store information as well. A form of homosynaptic long-term depression (LTD) has been described and widely studied in the CA1 region of the developing hippocampus in vitro. However, the relevance of this model of LTD to memory has been questioned because of failures to replicate it in the adult brain in vitro and, more recently, in vivo. Here we re-examine this important issue and find that homosynaptic LTD can in fact be elicited in the adult hippocampus in vivo, that it has all the properties described in immature CA1 in vitro, and that LTD and LTP are reversible modifications of the same Schaffer collateral synapses. Thus homosynaptic LTD is not peculiar to brain slices, nor is it only of developmental significance. Rather, out data suggest that the mechanisms of LTD and LTD may be equal partners in the mneumonic operations of hippocampal neural networks.
Little is known about how or where the visual system parses the visual scene into objects or surfaces. However, it is generally assumed that the segmentation and grouping of pieces of the image into discrete entities is due to 'later' processing stages, after the 'early' processing of the visual image by local mechanisms selective for attributes such as colour, orientation, depth, and motion. Speed perception is also thought to be mediated by early mechanisms tuned for speed. Here we show that manipulating the way in which an image is parsed changes the way in which local speed information is processed. Manipulations that cause multiple stimuli to appear as parts of a single patch degrade speed discrimination, whereas manipulations that perceptually divide a single large stimulus into parts improve discrimination. These results indicate that processes as early as speed perception may be constrained by the parsing of the visual image into discrete entities.
The limbic-system-associated membrane protein (LAMP) is a 64-68-kDa neuronal surface glycoprotein distributed in cortical and subcortical regions of the limbic system. The human LAMP gene was cloned by RT-PCR using human cerebral cortex mRNA and oligodeoxyribonucleotide (oligo) primers derived from the rat lamp cDNA sequence. The human and rat LAMP cDNAs showed 94% identity at the nucleotide (nt) level, and the encoded 338-amino-acid (aa) polypeptides shared 99% sequence identity. All the important features of LAMP were conserved: (i) the deduced aa sequence reflecting a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchor, (ii) eight putative N-linked glycosylation sites, and (iii) conserved pairs of Cys forming three internal repeats characteristic of the immunoglobulin superfamily (IgSF). Northern blot analysis indicated the presence of two mRNA transcripts in the human brain of a size identical to those identified in adult rat brain. These data indicate that LAMP is a highly conserved new member of the IgSF which, together with the opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule (OBCAM) and neurotrimin, comprises a new subfamily that has been designated as IgLONs. With a unique distribution in limbic structures, LAMP may play an important role in limbic system development and function, as suggested by previous in vitro and in vivo functional studies.
The mouse adrenocortical Y-1 cell line expresses a high level of neuropeptide Y1 receptor (NPY-Y1). Moreover the receptor density can be up-regulated by dexamethasone or down-regulated by cAMP. To determine whether such regulation occurs at the level of gene expression, Y1 receptor mRNA was measured using a reverse transcriptase-competitive PCR method. Dexamethasone treatment increased Y1 mRNA in Y-1 cells, whereas the cAMP and ACTH decreased it. We also observed that the amount of Y1 receptor RNA was unaffected by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, a protein kinase C stimulator, but was abolished in a cell line expressing apolipoprotein E (apoE). The results indicated that NPY-Y1 receptor mRNA in Y-1 cells is highly regulated by several intracellular messengers. The role of apoE in such regulation is of particular interest in view of evidence that the isoform of the molecule is highly correlated to the age of onset of Alzheimer's disease. The effect observed in the Y-1 cell line which expresses apoE may implicate a possible role of this protein in the process of neuronal death that occurred in the Alzheimer's disease.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology is characterized by neuritic plaques composed primarily of amyloid beta peptide (A beta). An elevation in A beta in the cerebral cortex has been implicated in the pathophysiology of AD but its mechanism of action is unknown. The addition of A beta protein to neuronal cell cultures produces changes in the activity of various membrane proteins, including ion channels and receptors, potentially as a result of intercalating into the membrane bilayer. In this study, the interactions of the A beta fragment 25-35 [A beta(25-35)] with liposomes were directly examined by small angle x-ray diffraction approaches. One-dimensional electron density profiles generated from the diffraction data demonstrated that the addition of A beta(25-35) produced a discrete increase in electron density 0-12 A from the center of the lipid bilayer. Under these conditions, the membrane concentration of A beta(25-35) was 860-fold higher than in the aqueous buffer. These findings indicate that this peptide is highly lipophilic and inserts into the membrane hydrocarbon core. Following the intercalation of A beta(25-35) to this location in the membrane, the protein fragment may interact with regulatory membrane proteins.
Current research has shown that manipulation at the glycine site of the NMDA receptor by various compounds can modulate NMDA receptor function and its behavioural consequences. The present study was conducted in order to neuroanatomically localize the effects of (+)-HA966 upon the acute and chronic effects of cocaine. Locomotor activity of Sprague-Dawley rats pretreated with (+)-HA966 (60 micrograms) into the nucleus accumbens five min prior to receiving cocaine (20 mg/kg i.p.) was significantly less than locomotor activity of the vehicle pretreated rats. Repeated treatment with cocaine resulted in sensitization to the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine. Co-administration of (+)-HA966 with cocaine prevented the sensitization to a subsequent cocaine challenge, in which activity was comparable to levels of naive individuals given an acute injection of cocaine. These results suggest that the glycine site on NMDA receptors in the nucleus accumbens plays an important role in both the acute and sensitized responses to cocaine on locomotor activity.
The distribution and subcellular localization of AH9 antigen, recognized by a monoclonal antibody AH9, were examined in rat brain. Highest expression was observed in the lamina lucidum of the dentate gyrus of the rat hippocampus. Synaptic subfields of other limbic areas also expressed AH9 antigen at a substantial level. The molecular size of the AH9 antigen is 15 kDa and it was found in the microsomal fraction of brain but not of heart or kidney. These results indicate that AH9 antigen is a novel synaptosomal protein that is relatively specific to the limbic system, at least in the rat brain. We designated AH9 antigen as a limbic system associated protein-1, lap-1.
Sublethal ischemia or hypoxia triggers adaptive changes that protect the brain against future hypoxic/ischemic damage. Preexposure of in vitro hippocampal slices to brief periods of hypoxia increases the resistance of Schaffer collateral-CA1 synaptic potentials to further, longer periods of hypoxia that would otherwise cause an irreversible loss of synaptic transmission. Since hypoxia has been shown to cause alterations in the patterns of protein synthesis, we hypothesized that newly-expressed proteins might mediate hypoxia-induced neuroprotection. We report here that the induction of neuroprotection by hypoxic preconditioning in rat hippocampal slices is blocked by either cycloheximide, a protein synthesis inhibitor, or by Actinomycin D, an inhibitor of RNA synthesis. In contrast, pharmacological blockade of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtypes of glutamate receptors did not prevent the induction of neuroprotection by hypoxia. Carbon monoxide (CO), which can lock heme moieties in their oxygenated configurations, did prevent hypoxia from inducing neuroprotection. We conclude that hypoxia activates protective mechanisms via deoxygenation of a heme moiety, triggering expression of gene products which protect synaptic function from subsequent hypoxic damage.
Expression of Fos protein, detected immunocytochemically, was used to assess the relative responses of supraoptic nucleus (SON) oxytocin- (OX) and vasopressin- (VP) containing neurons to the osmotic vs. the osmotic plus stressful components of intraperitoneal hypertonic saline injections. The percentage of SON neurons showing Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-ir) was quantified for rats receiving general anesthesia only, anesthesia 1 h prior to either isotonic or hypertonic saline injection or no anesthesia prior to hypertonic injection. Hypertonic saline injection with and without anesthesia induced Fos-ir in 66% and 77% of SON neurons, respectively, whereas isotonic saline with anesthesia and anesthesia alone resulted in 15% and 13%, respectively, of cells showing Fos-ir. Double labeling for Fos-ir and either OX-ir or VP-ir resulted in quantitatively different responses to hypertonic injections with and without anesthesia in OX-ir and VP-ir neurons. The VP-ir neuronal response was similar under the two conditions: 49% and 48% of VP cells displaying Fos-ir with and without prior anesthesia, respectively. By contrast, a higher percentage of OX-ir neurons was found to exhibit Fos-ir without (68%) than with (53%) anesthesia. Thus, a greater percentage of neurons was induced to express Fos-ir when the stressful components of the hypertonic injection were unattenuated by anesthesia, and this difference was entirely due to increased numbers of responding OX neurons. These data indicate that, under these experimental conditions, SON OX neurons respond in larger numbers to the osmotic components of hypertonic saline injections and have a greater responsiveness than do VP neurons to the stressful components.
Injections of D-amphetamine (5 mg/kg) three hours before sacrifice were found to elicit robust Fos-like immunoreactivity in the striatum of cynomolgus monkeys and of the common marmoset. Labeled cells were most frequently observed in the medial portion of the caudate nucleus and were distributed in a patchy fashion. Comparison with adjacent sections stained for the calcium binding protein calbindin indicated that the patches of amphetamine induced labeling corresponded to the calbindin-poor striosomes. These results are consistent with those reported in rats and thus suggest similarities in the basic organization of striatal mechanisms underlying the response to amphetamine in rodents and primates.
We recorded 259 single neurons from mesial temporal lobe structures of 21 patients with complex partial seizures. Interspike intervals within clusters of action potentials (clustered interspike intervals) recorded from cells in mesial temporal structures ipsilateral to seizure initiation were compared to clustered interspike intervals in the contralateral temporal lobe. 'Clusters' were defined as any group of three or more spikes separated by intervals of less than a defined maximum, or two spikes separated by less than half that maximum. The maximum interspike interval which defined a cluster was varied from 5 to 40 ms in 5-ms steps. Significantly smaller proportions of clustered spikes were discharged by neurons in the amygdala, hippocampus and entorhinal cortex from the temporal lobe commonly initiating seizures, compared to neurons in contralateral homotopic regions. When data from the same three structures were combined, significantly fewer cluster interspike intervals between 10 and 25 ms were recorded from cells on the side of seizure onset. Because clustered action potential discharge is a normal pattern of firing for cells that discharge endogenous bursts, the relative decrease in proportions of 10-25 ms clustered interspike intervals occurring in the temporal lobe initiating seizures might reflect a reduction in endogenous burst discharges from that side. Reduced endogenous bursting could be due to the loss of burst discharging neurons as a product of seizure-related excitotoxicity. The identification of decreased interictal single neuronal burst discharge in epileptogenic structures stresses the difference between the interictal and ictal states in patients with complex partial seizures, and the importance of the transition between those states.
Recent literature has shown that compounds interacting with neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) have the potential to be neuroprotective both in vitro and in vivo. ABT-418 is a novel ChCA that selectively stimulates discrete subtypes of the nAChRs and exhibits cognitive enhancing activity. In the present study, the neuroprotective effects of ABT-418 and (-)-nicotine, as measured by the release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) into the media, were investigated in a glutamate (Glu)-induced cytotoxicity assay using either primary rat cortical neurons or a human differentiated cell line, IMR 32. The neuroprotection elicited by ABT-418 and (-)-nicotine is both time and concentration dependent with an optimal concentration of 10 microM and an optimal pretreatment time of 2 h. ABT-418 remained neuroprotective and not cytotoxic to rat cortical cells following subacute exposure for 7 days. Protection appears to be mediated via an interaction with nAChRs, possibly the alpha 7 subtype, since the neuroprotection was prevented by alpha-bungaratoxin (alpha-Bgt) and methyllycaconitine (MLA), both selective alpha 7 antagonists. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ prevented the neuroprotective effects of ABT-418 and (-)-nicotine, consistent with the known ability of alpha 7 nAChRs to modulate calcium dynamics. These data support the idea that ABT-418 not only enhances cognition, but may possibly slow the progression of the neurodegenerative process.
Ibogaine, a naturally occurring iboga alkaloid, has been claimed to be effective in treating addiction to opioids and stimulants, and has been reported to inhibit morphine and cocaine self-administration in rats. However, ibogaine also has acute nonspecific side effects (e.g. tremors, decreased motivated behavior in general) as well as neurotoxic effects (Purkinje cell loss) manifested in the vermis of the cerebellum. 18-Methoxycoronaridine (MC) is a novel, synthetic iboga alkaloid congener that mimics ibogaine's effects on drug self-administration without appearing to have ibogaine's other adverse effects. Acutely, in rats, MC decreased morphine and cocaine self-administration but did not affect bar-press responding for water. In some rats, treatment with MC (40 mg/kg) induced prolonged decreases in morphine or cocaine intake lasting several days or weeks. MC had no apparent tremorigenic effect, and there was no evidence of cerebellar toxicity after a high dose (100 mg/kg) of MC. Similar to the effects of ibogaine and other iboga alkaloids that inhibit drug self-administration, MC (40 mg/kg) decreased extracellular levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens. MC therefore appears to be a safer, ibogaine-like agent that might be useful in the treatment of addictive disorders.
In the present study, we demonstrate that the Ca(2+)-inhibitable adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity in the striatum exhibits a daily oscillation with a peak occurring around 10:00 h. A circadian fluctuation of the AC activity evoked by an A2a adenosine-selective agonist was also observed. Intrastriatal injection of an A2a-selective adenosine agonist or antagonist during the interval in which the Ca(2+)-inhibitable AC activity was at its peak resulted in a more significant alteration of locomotor activity than those observed at a later interval. The marked circadian variation in the Ca(2+)-inhibitable AC activity in the striatum appears to cause a circadian fluctuation in the action of at least one neuromodulator.
If excitatory terminals onto inhibitory interneurones were more sensitive to adenosine than excitatory terminals onto pyramidal cells in the hippocampus it might explain the effect of adenosine to decrease paired-pulse inhibition and account for reported excitatory effects of low concentrations of adenosine. We have compared the concentration-response relationships for the effect of adenosine on single evoked field potentials and on paired-pulse inhibition in the CA1 area of the rat hippocampal slice in order to test this hypothesis. Adenosine caused a concentration-dependent decrease in both single evoked population spike size and in paired-pulse inhibition between potentials. The concentration-response relationships for both effects was very similar, ruling out the possibility that excitatory terminals onto inhibitory interneurones are more sensitive to adenosine than excitatory terminals onto pyramidal cells, and suggesting that the receptors located at the two sites may be indistinguishable.
In situ whole cell voltage clamp recordings of presumed folliculo-stellate cells were made in the intermediate lobe of the clawed toad Xenopus laevis. Lucifer Yellow fillings revealed, in addition to the small, spherical melanotropes, a population of larger cells with many processes that were, to a limited extent, dye-coupled and are assumed to be folliculo-stellate cells. The presumed folliculo-stellate cells differed strongly from the melanotropes in electrophysiological properties. The cells had a membrane resistance of &lt; 600 M omega (at -100 to -80 mV) and a membrane potential of ca. -90 mV, close to the equilibrium potential for K+. At potentials of &gt; or = -20 mV, most of the cells displayed a rapidly activating and slowly inactivating outward K+ current. In all cells, hyperpolarizing pulses to &lt; or = -100 mV activated an inward rectifying K+ current.
Human amniotic epithelial (HAE) cells are formed from amnioblasts, separated from the epiblast at about the 8th day after fertilization. We attempted to detect various developmental antigens specific to neural cells by immunocytochemical methods. The cultured HAE cells displayed positive immunoreactivity to RC1, vimentin, A2B5, neurofilament proteins, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and MAP2 kinase. In addition, the cells also demonstrated immunoreactivity to glial fibrillary acidic protein, CNPase, myelin basic protein and galactocerebroside. The appearance rate of positive cells was more than 50% in cells positive to RC1, A2B5, vimentin or neuronal markers, and 20-30% to glial cell markers. Double staining showed the heterogeneous appearance of oligodendrocyte lineage cells. These data indicate that HAE cells may have the putative multipotentiality of neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes.


Cochlear outer hair cells (OHC) are commonly assumed to function as mechanical effectors as well as sensory receptors in the organ of Corti (OC) of the inner ear. OHC in vitro and in organ explants exhibit mechanical responses to electrical, chemical or mechanical stimulation which may represent an aspect of their effector process that is expected in vivo. A detailed description, however, of an OHC effector operation in situ is still missing. Specifically, little is known as to how OHC movements influence the geometry of the OC in situ. Previous work has demonstrated that the motility of isolated OHCs in response to electrical stimulation and to K(+)-gluconate is probably under voltage control and causes depolarisation (shortening) and hyperpolarization (elongation). This work was undertaken to investigate if the movements that were observed in isolated OHC, and which are induced by ionic stimulation, could change the geometry of the OC. A synchronized depolarization of OHC was induced in guinea pig cochleae by exposing the entire OC to artificial endolymph (K+). Subsequent morphometry of mid-modiolar sections from these cochleae revealed that the distance between the basilar membrane (BM) and the reticular lamina (RL) had decreased considerably. Furthermore, in the three upper turns OHC had significantly shortened in all rows. The results suggest that OHC can change their length in the organ of Corti (OC) thus deforming the geometry of the OC. The experiments reveal a tonic force generation within the OC that may change the position of RL and/or BM, contribute to damping, modulate the BM-RL-distance and control the operating points of RL and sensory hair bundles. Thus, the results suggest active self-adjustments of cochlear mechanics by slow OHC length changes. Such mechanical adjustments have recently been postulated to correspond to timing elements of animal communication, speech or music.
Bladder growth was induced by partial urethral obstruction. Bladder hypertrophy was evident at 53 h after obstruction and continued over a 6 weeks period. Small bladder arteries were taken from fixed anatomical locations of the bladder circulation, mounted in a small vessel myograph and the optimal diameter for maximal isometric force development was determined (Lmax K+ = 125 mM stimulation). Bladder hypertrophy was associated with an enlarged Lmax from 53h onward (compared with sham-operated controls) and Lmax continued to increase until 10 days after urethral obstruction. Between 10 days and 6 weeks no further increase of the diameter was observed. Increased diameters in vitro were accompanied by a transiently increased [3H] Thymidine uptake in the small arteries which peaked at 53 h after obstruction but was still above background at 10 days. At this time point, small arterial growth was associated with a significant relative increase in the M isoform of LDH as determined with agarose electrophoresis on tissue homogenates. Thus organ growth induced small vessel growth in the rat is characterized by a rapid onset, increased but transient DNA-turnover and LDH-isoform changes. The latter mimic changes seen in other types of smooth muscle growth.
Genetic factors have long been implicated in the aetiology of bipolar disorder (BD). During the past two decades several linkage studies have been carried out with the aim of identifying major genes. However, remarkable discrepancies in results both between and within studies have constituted a major problem. In order to elucidate some of these conflicts, we assessed the published literature on linkage studies of bipolar disorder, focusing on methodological issues. Studies published between January 1980 and December 1994 were identified by computerized literature searches and subsequent scanning of review articles, and the reference lists of the articles primarily identified. A set of defined inclusion and exclusion criteria was used to select studies for assessment. A total of 31 variables were determined, and pre-defined codes were assigned in a structured manner. More than 200 citations were reviewed, and 60 articles were included in this study. Descriptive statistical analyses of the variables, as well as associations between variables, are presented. The findings are discussed with regard to the possibility that, beyond the genetic complexity of the disorder itself, there are several other similarly complicated study design issues which should be more carefully observed. Moreover, the need for standardization of basic criteria to use and report clinical and analytical parameters employed in linkage studies is strongly suggested.


We describe the use of a recently developed technique in the field of color Doppler sonography, called power Doppler or color Doppler energy, that produces better images of the intracranial arteries than those obtained by conventional color Doppler techniques. Color Doppler energy makes it possible to identify aneurysms and their relationship to the parent artery, thus allowing one to observe how much of an aneurysm remains patent and the condition of adjacent arteries during endovascular treatment. We describe the use of this technique during the insertion of Guglielmi detachable coils into aneurysms and during subsequent follow-up examination.
Wernicke's encephalopathy (WE) is difficult to diagnose during life, with up to 80% of cases being missed by routine neurological evaluation in both alcoholics and AIDS patients. Therefore, there is a need for noninvasive diagnostic procedures. Using the pyrithiamine-treated rat, an animal model of WE, we have studied, using radioligands for central (neuronal) and &quot;peripheral-type&quot; (glial) benzodiazepine receptors, the regional distribution of changes in the densities of these receptors in relation to the degree of reactive gliosis accompanying neuronal loss. Histological studies revealed neuronal loss in selective regions, including the thalamus, inferior colliculus, inferior olivary nucleus, and mammillary body. Autoradiographic studies demonstrated increases in densities of [3H]PK11195 binding sites that closely paralleled the topographic distribution of neuronal cell loss and reactive gliosis. In contrast, [3H]Ro15-178 showed poor spatial correlation, with the neuronal loss seen in pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency. The positron emission tomography ligand [11C]PK11195 may be useful for the assessment of thiamine deficiency-induced brain damage in human alcoholics.

Living with an uncompensated, abnormal vestibular system requires oppressive modification of life style and often prevents return to work and activities of daily living. Patients with vestibular abnormalities were studied to determine the minimal residual vestibular function required to achieve compensation. Three groups of patients with (a) complete unilateral loss of vestibular function with normal horizontal canal-vestibulo-ocular (HCVOR) function in the opposite ear, (b) complete unilateral loss with abnormal HCVOR function in the opposite ear, and (c) bilateral reduction of vestibular function from aminoglycoside toxicity underwent vestibuloocular (VOR), optokinetic (OKN), visual-VOR (VVOR), and computerized dynamic posturography (CDP) tests before and after therapeutic procedures. Results suggest that a minimal VOR response amplitude must be present for compensation of VVOR function to occur. The roles of VOR and OKN phase shifts in vestibular compensation are more complicated and require further study. Compensation of vestibulospinal function does not necessarily accompany VOR or VVOR compensation. Ascending and descending vestibular compensatory mechanisms may involve different spatial sensory inputs. Results of these studies have important implications for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with vestibular disorders, including selection and monitoring of patients for therapeutic regimens such as vestibular nerve section and streptomycin therapy.
Lewy bodies (LBs) are the pathological hallmarks of degenerating neurons in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease and diffuse Lewy body disease. We developed a novel purification procedure for LBs using sucrose density separation followed by fluorescence-activated particle sorting, and we raised &gt; 15 monoclonal antibodies to LBs purified from diffuse Lewy body disease brains. The monoclonal antibody that stained the largest number of LBs most intensely did not recognize ubiquitin in free or monoubiquitinated forms nor the ubiquitin conjugating enzymes, but it did react with polyubiquitin chains as well as with high molecular weight polyubiquitinated LB-derived proteins. Thus, these results suggest that LBs contain polyubiquitin chains. Although polyubiquitination of LB proteins may trigger ubiquitin-proteasome proteolytic pathways, the incomplete activation of these pathways could play a mechanistic role in the formation of LBs in neurodegenerative diseases.
Comparison of latencies of the H reflex from side-to-side is considered a valid indicator of pathology, but amplitudes are too variable to allow similar comparison. Three pairs of electrodes were placed circumferentially and longitudinally along the calf to record the H reflex in three axes simultaneously. An H reflex with the greatest amplitude was produced by incrementally increasing submaximal stimulation to the tibial nerve. Three-dimensional vector graphs were constructed at three levels in each calf in ten normal individuals. Best fit curve Procrustes statistical analysis showed an average of 82.2 to 90.6% agreement of 3-D shape left-to-right with greater agreement at distal levels. Standard deviation ranged from 11.3% proximally to 8.2% distally. This represents much closer agreement than established norms for amplitude, which can vary from two to four times side-to-side. Three-dimensional vector analysis holds promise to further understanding of peripheral and central electrophysiologic phenomena.
Food deprivation, as well as treatment with metabolic inhibitors, suppress steroid hormone-induced estrous behavior in ovariectomized (OVX) Syrian hamsters. Previous work indicates that 48 h of food deprivation decreases the number of detectable estrogen receptor immunoreactive (ERIR) cells in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) and the area just lateral to it (VLH), increases the number of ERIR cells in the medial preoptic area (MPO), and has no effect on the number of ERIR cells in the nucleus of the solitary tract in OVX hamsters. The present study examined the effects of food deprivation on neural progestin receptor binding using an in vitro binding assay and on progestin receptor immunoreactivity (PRIR) in estradiol-primed, OVX hamsters. Parallel behavior tests for sexual behavior were also performed in both experiments. OVX hamsters received 2.5 micrograms estradiol benzoate and were fed ad libitum or food deprived at the same time. Forty-eight hours later, animals were killed in preparation for the immunocytochemistry or progestin receptor assay. Binding assays indicated that 48-h food deprivation decreased progestin receptor levels in the preoptic area and had no effect in the mediobasal hypothalamus, an area that includes the VMH and the arcuate nucleus (ARH). Immunocytochemical analysis confirmed these findings. Food deprivation caused a decrease in sexual receptivity and in the number of detectable PRIR cells in the MPO and medial amygdala but had no effect on the number of detectable PRIR cells in the VMH/VLH, the ARH, or the anteroventral periventricular nucleus. These results suggest that food deprivation modulates progestin receptor binding and PRIR in a site-specific manner. In addition, the effects of food deprivation on neural ERIR and PRIR are significantly different.
Intracellular microelectrode recordings were performed to investigate the consequences of beta-adrenoceptor activation in smooth muscle of guinea pig mesenteric lymphatic vessels. Isoproterenol (Iso) hyperpolarized the membrane with an associated increase in membrane conductance and decreased the amplitude of spontaneous transient depolarizations. Iso effects were mimicked by forskolin (FSK), 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, and two adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) derivatives. Iso- and FSK-induced hyperpolarizations were inhibited by H89, an inhibitor of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A, increased in K+-free solution, but were not affected by ouabain or by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine. They were partially inhibited by 20 mM tetraethylammonium (approximately 40%) or by 2.5 mM 4-aminopyridine (approximately 55%). The-Iso-induced hyperpolarization was partially inhibited by iberiotoxin (20 nM) and charybdotoxin (40 nM), whereas the FSK-induced hyperpolarization was less affected. In cells where the Iso-induced hyperpolarization was decreased by 40 microM 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid, acetoxymethyl ester form, the FSK-induced hyperpolarization was little changed. Our results indicate that in guinea pig mesenteric lymphatic vessels, beta-adrenoceptor stimulation activates a protein kinase A-dependent K+ conductance, involving more than one channel type.


Shedding of epithelium, increased venular permeability, and traffic of activated eosinophils and neutrophils may characterize asthmatic airways. This in vivo study involving briefly anesthetized guinea pigs examines whether epithelial denudation itself affects airway venules and granulocytes. Using an oral probe, a de-epithelialized tracheal zone (0.8 x 30 mm) was produced without bleeding or damage to the basement membrane. After 10 min, 2, 8, and 48 h, the tracheal tissue was examined by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Silver staining revealed endothelial cell borders. Histochemistry identified neutrophils and eosinophils. Confirming previous observations, epithelial restitution started promptly and occurred speedily under a plasma exudation-derived, leukocyte-rich gel. Ten minutes after de-epithelialization, venular gaps (silver dots) were recognized as plasma exudation sites and, separately, silver rings at endothelial cell borders indicated attachment and extravasation of leukocytes. Tissue neutrophils were increased from 10 min to 48 h. Normally occurring eosinophils decreased in numbers during re-epithelialization, partly due to migration into the airway lumen and local cell death. Clusters of extracellular eosinophil granules were increased from 10 min to 8 h. Gentle removal of airway epithelium thus produced venular gaps, infiltration of neutrophils, and migration, activation, and death of eosinophils. Epithelial shedding-restitution processes may cause part of the microvascular and leukocyte changes that occur in inflammatory airway diseases.
A somatic cell hybrid mapping panel has been constructed which allows subdivision of human chromosome 1 into 8 distinct subregions. All of the hybrids carry copies of chromosome 1 with specific deletions and the position of the breakpoints has been determined relative to the location of microsatellite markers in the genetic linkage map produced by Genethon. The majority of the breakpoints can be positioned between adjacent loci on the map. The usefulness of this hybrid panel for physical mapping has been demonstrated by the regional assignment of 6 novel STS markers made from Alu-PCR clones generated from a hybrid which contains the short arm of chromosome 1.
We reviewed the files of 80 successive patients with native and prosthetic valve endocarditis admitted to Riyadh Armed Forces Hospital. Neurological complications (NC) occurred in 28 (35%) patients. The valves involved were mitral in 12 (43%), aortic in eight (29%), combined mitral and aortic lesions in six (21%), and others in two (7%). The common causative organisms were Stretococci in 12 (43%), Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermides, both occuring in four (14%). Compared to the 52 infective endocarditis patients with no neurological complications (NNC), the NC occurred more frequently in male patients, those with aortic valve lesion, those with atrial fibrillation, those with delayed therapy and those with causative organisms being Streptococci or Staphylococci. Eleven patients died (39%), 12 (43%) recovered with motor sequelae, six (21%) had seizure disorder, and five (18%) had full recovery. The frequency of neurological complications and mortality is comparable to those reported in the literaturel; however, the frequency of strokes was higher in our patients.
The apolipoprotein E (ApoE) epsilon4 allele is strongly associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and is, at the same time, a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Recently, it has also been suggested that skin vessel reactivity is impaired in AD. The aim of this study was to assess the impact of the ApoE epsilon4 allele on the results of skin vessel reactivity tests and vascular risk factors such as cholesterol and blood pressure in AD. Fourteen non-smoking patients, who were in good general health and took no medicines, were tested. Three vasodilating substances with different modes of action, acetylcholine (ACh), isoprenaline and nitroprusside, were iontophoresed into the skin and the resultant vasodilation of the skin vessels was evaluated with the aid of a newly developed laser Doppler perfusion imager. The results of the tests did not differ significantly between the patient group with (n=10) and without (n=4) the ApoE epsilon4 allele, perhaps due to the small number of patients. The results of the skin vessel reactivity tests of the patient subgroups were also compared to those of healthy, non-smoking, non-medicating, age-matched controls. The findings of that comparison suggest, that the presence of the epsilon4 allele in AD might have an impact on skin vessel reactivity to the cholinergic agonist ACh.
Male Wistar rats received bilateral Fimbria lesions and were postoperatively housed in either standard social conditions or in impoverished conditions (one rat per cage) for 2 weeks in experiment I, and for 7 months in experiment II. The effects of lesion and housing conditions were investigated in the Morris maze spatial orientation task. Fimbria lesions increased the latency to reach the platform during acquisition in both experiments, which indicates that functional recovery of the Morris maze impairment does not occur in 7 months time. Post-operative impoverishment for 2 weeks or for 7 months reduced the lesion induced deficit in Morris maze acquisition, while it had a more general effect in the trial without platform. Interestingly, the impoverishment effects were not more severe after 7 months, but even less easily detected. These findings are interpreted as if impoverishment effects the reactiveness of animals to external stimuli, which may help the animal to compensate for the lesion-induced-deficit in Morris maze learning.
This experiment examined the influence of mianserin, a 5-HT(2) receptor antagonist, on the rewarding effect of ethanol in a place conditioning paradigm. Swiss-Webster mice received four pairings of a tactile stimulus with drug treatment consisting of two i.p. injections separated by a 30min interval. Drug treatment groups were as follows: saline (10mg/kg) followed by ethanol (2mg/kg); mianserin (10mg/kg) followed by ethanol; mianserin followed by saline. A different stimulus was paired with two saline injections. During conditioning, ethanol produced increases in locomotor activity that were reduced by mianserin. Mianserin alone reduced activity levels. As expected, group saline-ethanol showed a nonsignificant trend towards conditioned place preference. However, mianserin enhanced the acquisition of ethanol preference, whereas mianserin alone did not produce either place preference or aversion. The results are consistent with the notion that serotonergic systems are important in the response to ethanol, and further suggest that 5-HT(2) receptor blockade increases the rewarding effects of ethanol.
We evaluated the effect of manipulation of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis on epileptiform discharges recorded from immobilized rats during intracerebroventricular injection of alpha-guanidinoglutaric acid (GGA), an endogenous convulsant and a NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor, alone or in combined with a NOS substrate, l-arginine (ARG). GGA alone, or combined with 50 mM ARG, resulted in prolonged electrographical seizures while co-injection of either 100 or 200 mM of ARG with GGA caused significantly protection. These data show that ARG inhibited epileptiform discharges in a dose-dependent fashion, suggesting that the discharges initiated by inhibition of NOS with the intrinsic convulsant GGA are abated by increasing the concentration of the NOS substrate ARG.


Continuous jugular bulb venous oximetry has been validated previously for periods of up to 12 h after calibration. We assessed a new Edslab venous oximetry catheter in 15 patients with brain injury in the intensive care unit. After insertion into the jugular bulb, the catheter was calibrated using a laboratory co-oximeter. Subsequent comparisons were made at varying intervals (range 20 min to 100 h); 78 paired samples were obtained during periods of stable recordings. Estimation of haemoglobin saturation by the methods correlated well (r2 = 0.97, P &lt; 0.0001). Mean difference (d) was small (0.28% (SD 2.35%)) and limits of agreement (d +/- (SD x 1.96)) were acceptable (-4.88% to 4.32%). There was no appreciable drift and there was negligible bias. This catheter did not suffer from problems of light intensity described with other systems, and it provided acceptable accuracy for clinical use for periods of up to and exceeding 24 h after calibration.

1. In rat striatal membranes, muscarinic toxin 3 (MT3), a selective ligand of the cloned m4 receptor subtype, antagonized the acetylcholine (ACh) inhibition of forskolin- and dopamine D1 receptor-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activities with pA2 values of 8.09 and 8.15, respectively. 2. In radioligand binding experiments, MT3 increased the Kd but did not change the Bmax value of [3H]-N-methylscopolamine (3H]-NMS) binding to rat striatal muscarinic receptors. The toxin displaced the major portion of the [3H]-NMS binding sites with a Ki of 8.0 nM. 3. In rat myocardium, MT3 antagonized the ACh inhibition of adenylyl cyclase with a Ki value of 860 nM. 4. In rat cerebral cortical membranes prelabelled with [3H]-myo-inositol, MT3 counteracted the methacholine stimulation of [3H]-inositol phosphates formation with a Ki value of 113 nM. 5. The present study shows that MT3 is a potent antagonist of the striatal muscarinic receptors coupled to inhibition of adenylyl cyclase activity. This finding provides strong evidence for the classification of these receptors as pharmacologically equivalent to the m4 gene product (M4). On the other hand, the weaker potencies of MT3 in antagonizing the muscarinic responses in cerebral cortex and in the heart are consistent with the reported lower affinities of the toxin for the cloned m1 and m2 receptor subtypes, respectively.
1. There is evidence that endothelial dysfunction is associated with diabetes mellitus. The purpose of the present study was to assess local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) and cerebrovascular responsiveness to the NOS inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) in spontaneously diabetic insulin-dependent BioBred (BB) rats. 2. Diabetic rats, and non-diabetic controls, were treated with L-NAME (30 mg kg-1, i.v.) or saline, 20 min prior to the measurement of LCBF by the fully quantitative [14C]-iodoantipyrine autoradiographic technique. 3. There were no significant differences in physiological parameters (blood pH, PCO2, and PO2, rectal temperature, arterial blood pressure, or plasma glucose) between any of the groups of rats, and no difference in either the extent or the temporal characteristics of the hypertensive response to L-NAME between diabetic and non-diabetic rats. 4. In diabetic rats, a global reduction in basal LCBF was observed, although significant reductions (between -20 and -30%) were found in only 5 (mainly subcortical) out of the 13 brain regions measured. Following L-NAME injection, significant reductions in LCBF (between -20 and -40%) were found in the non-diabetic animals. In diabetic animals treated with L-NAME, a significant reduction in LCBF was measured only in the hypothalamus (-33%). 5. The cerebrovascular response to acute L-NAME is attenuated in spontaneously diabetic insulin-dependent BB rats. This would be consistent with the endothelial dysfunction in cerebral vessels, known to be associated with diabetes mellitus and it is possible that a loss of NO-induced dilator tone, amongst other factors, may underlie the observed reductions of basal LCBF in these animals.
1. The effect of local application of cocaine to the corpus cavernosum on intracavernous pressure (ICP), an experimental index for penile erection, was examined in Sprague-Dawley rats anaesthetized with chloral hydrate. The potential involvement of dopamine, noradrenaline or nitric oxide as the chemical mediator in this process, and the pharmacological action of cocaine as a local anaesthetic in the induced increase in ICP, were also investigated. 2. Intracavernous (i.c.) administration of cocaine (40, 80 or 160 micrograms) to the corpus cavernosum resulted in a dose-related increase in both amplitude and duration of ICP. 3. The elevation of ICP induced by cocaine (160 micrograms, i.c.) was not significantly influenced by prior injection into the corpus cavernosum of either the D1 or D2 dopamine receptor antagonist, R-(+)-SCH 22390 (250 pmol) or (-)-sulpiride (250 pmol). 4. Similarly, penile erection promoted by cocaine (160 micrograms, i.c.) was not appreciably affected by i.c. pretreatment with the alpha 1-, alpha 2-, or beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, prazosin (50 pmol), yohimbine (50 pmol) or propranolol (5 nmol). 5. Whereas lignocaine (4 mumol, i.c.) depressed penile erection induced by papaverine (400 micrograms, i.c.), local application of cocaine (160 micrograms) into the corpus cavernosum still elicited significant elevation in ICP in the presence of lignocaine or papaverine. 6. The increase in ICP induced by cocaine (160 micrograms, i.c.) was attenuated dose-dependently by prior cavernosal administration of the NO synthase inhibitor, N omega-nitro-L -arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 0.5, 1 or 5 pmol) or NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA, 2.5, 5 or 10 pmol). The blunting effect of L-NAME or L-NMMA was reversed by co-administration of the NO precursor, L-arginine (1 nmol, i.c.). 7. Pretreatment by local application into the corpus cavernosum of methylene blue (2.5 mumol), an inhibitor of cytosolic guanylyl cyclase, antagonized cocaine-induced penile erection. 8. Direct i.c. administration of a NO donor, nitroglycerin (10 or 20 nmol), mimicked the local action of cocaine by promoting a significant increase in ICP. 9. It is concluded that cocaine may induce penile erection by increasing ICP via a local action on the corpus cavernosum. This process did not appear to involve either dopamine or noradrenaline as the chemical mediator, nor the pharmacological action of cocaine as a local anaesthetic. On the other hand, it is likely that initiation and maintenance of penile erection elicited by cavernosal application of cocaine engaged an active participation of NO and subsequent activation of guanylyl cyclase in the corpus cavernosum.

Congenital malformations in all babies delivered at 11 Tokyo Metropolitan Hospitals (TMH) (8 hospitals since July 1989) for 15 years, January 1979 to December 1993, were monitored. Congenital malformations found within 7 days after birth were observed in 2085 babies (1.5%) of 138,544 births including stillbirths after 16 weeks gestation. The prevalence rates of selected malformations were calculated and compared in the 5-year periods of 1979-1983, 1984-1988 and 1989-1993. There was no typical secular trend in prevalence rates of malformations except for the heart and circulatory system, which showed an increase because of the recent progress in prenatal diagnosis of these malformations. The specificity of the TMH Monitoring System is also discussed.
The presence in hippocampus of a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) family of transcription factors (TFs) specifically binding in an electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) to the E-box recognition element was established by selective blockade of binding both by cold competition and by an antibody to MyoD1, an E-box TF. Protein source was from a micro-dissected preparation enriched in hippocampal granule cells. Specific E-box binding of hippocampal transcription factors was significantly reduced in kainate acid (KA) treated animals. This was observed at 24 and 72 h, but not before (3, 6 h) or after (96 h). This is the first report to our knowledge to study functional regulation of E-box binding protein in adult hippocampus. To determine the generality of this E-box regulatory event, we studied four other situations, in addition to kainate treatment, where axonal growth is known or has been suggested to increase: NGF treatment of PC12 cells, unilateral hilar lesions, long-term potentiation after 1 h, and postnatal rat hippocampal development. In all four cases, decreased E-box binding was observed. The recent link of F1/GAP-43 mRNA induction in hippocampal granule cells by KA to growth of their axons, the mossy fibers in the adult rat, suggests a potential role for the F1/GAP-43 5' flanking promoter region in regulating neurite outgrowth. Since in all cases decreased E-box binding preceded increased F1/GAP-43 mRNA expression, it is suggested that E-box binding to the F1/GAP-43 promoter in hippocampal granule cells could negatively regulate F1/GAP-43 gene expression. Indeed, analysis of recognition elements on the F1/GAP-43 gene revealed an arrangement, previously described in other genes, of multiple adjacent E-box elements. E-box binding of bHLH transcription factors is likely to occur on several different genes in addition to F1/GAP-43. It is, therefore, attractive to think that E-box binding is regulated by in vivo activation of the adult brain and that this gene regulatory event participates in the orchestration of molecular and cellular responses underlying axonal growth.


The ability of the divalent cation manganese (Mn2+) to substitute for calcium (Ca2+) both in triggering catecholamine release and in stimulating catecholamine synthesis, as indicated by an increase in tyrosine hydroxylase (TOH) phosphorylation, has been determined in bovine adrenal medullary chromaffin cells maintained in tissue culture. Mn2+ was found to enter chromaffin cells through pathways activated by nicotinic receptor stimulation and potassium depolarisation, and via the Na1:Ca0 exchange mechanism in Na(+)-loaded cells. Like Ca2+, entry of Mn2+ through these pathways triggered immediate catecholamine release and, like Ca2+, maintained quantitatively comparable release at least up to 40 min. Unlike Ca2+, Mn2+ did not stimulate an increase in TOH phosphorylation in intact chromaffin cells, even over a prolonged time course, but Mn2+ did stimulate increased TOH phosphorylation in lysed cell preparations showing that its lack of effect in the intact cells was not due to inhibition of the specific phosphorylation pathway. In lysed cell preparations, Mn2+ stimulated also phosphorylation of a different spectrum of proteins to Ca2+, and of the same proteins to different extents. In particular, P80 (MARCKS protein) was more intensely phosphorylated in the presence of Mn2+ than in the presence of Ca2+. Since TOH phosphorylation always occurs when intracellular Ca2+ is increased, the absence of an increase with Mn2+ indicates that none of its intracellular effects could have occurred as a consequence of Mn2+ mobilisation of intracellular Ca2+. In summary, the data show that Mn2+ is a surrogate for Ca2+ in triggering and maintaining catecholamine release, but does not substitute for Ca2+ in stimulating TOH phosphorylation.

We previously identified an interaction between collagen type IV and the EGF receptor that regulates the differentiation of a limbic cortical phenotype in vitro (Ferri and Levitt, 1995). In the present study, we map the expression of the EGF receptor and collagen type IV in the embryonic telencephalon of the rat. At embryonic day (E) II, the earliest age examined, both proteins are coexpressed throughout the ventricular zone in the cerebral wall; this zone remains immunoreactive throughout corticogenesis (E14-E19). The cells comprising the subventricular zone are the most intensely immunoreactive for the EGF receptor, although little collage type IV is detected in this region. In contrast, postmitotic neurons that leave the proliferative zones are negative for the receptor. Moreover, during the peak of neuronal migration, the intermediate zone lacks collagen type IV immunoreactivity. Neurons that settle in the cortical plate once again exhibit EGF receptor immunoreactivity; this same zone is devoid of collagen type IV. By E19, coexpression of both proteins is evident only in the rostral extension of the subventricular zone, the pathway of migrating cells leading to the olfactory bulb. The temporal and spatial overlap of the EGF receptor and collage type IV in the cortical progenitor pool in vivo indicates that these molecules may participate in the initial decisions of neuronal differentiation. Their modified distribution during cortical maturation suggests a changing role for both proteins.
We tested the hypothesis that partial forms of retrograde amnesia were associated with highly asymmetric lesions to the inferior and anterior-medial temporal lobe. Postencephalitic subjects EK and DR were both impaired on standardized retrograde memory tests, but showed strikingly different profiles in cognitive tasks of name stem completion, name:face matching, temporal ordering, forced choice recognition, and occupational judgments of famous names and faces from the past 3 decades. EK sustained left inferior and anterior-medial temporal lobe lesion with a small right temporal polar lesion, and showed near-complete loss of retrieval, knowledge, and familiarity associated with famous names but minimal deficiencies with famous faces. DR sustained right inferior and anterior-medial temporal lobe lesion and showed a milder retrograde loss limited to utilizing famous face prompts in name stem completion, name:face matching, occupational judgments, and forced choice recognition. These impairments were also different from the memory retrieval deficit, but intact recognition shown by a case of ruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysm with presumed basal forebrain damage. We hypothesize that EK's extensive loss of famous name knowledge was related to left inferior temporal lobe damage, particularly in the lateral and medial occipitotemporal gyri. This region in the left temporal lobe may serve as a critical processing area for retrograde memory that permits activation of established semantic, temporal, and visual (i.e., facial) associations biographically dependent on the category of proper names. On the basis of connectional anatomy patterns in the nonhuman primate, this region receives extensive hippocampal output and is interconnected with the temporal polar region and cortical association areas, which have been implicated in retrieval and storage aspects of retrograde memory. In the right hemisphere, the occipitotemporal gyri may serve an important role in famous face processing as part of a bilateral neural network.
Reaching movements are performed in order to bring the hand to targets of interest. It is widely believed that the distributed cortical network underlying visual reaching transforms the information concerning the spatial location of the target into an appropriate motor command. Modern views decompose this process into sequences of coordinate transformations between informational domains. The set of cortical areas and pathways by which the information on target location is relayed from the visual areas of the occipital lobe to the motor areas of the frontal lobe have, so far, been poorly understood. Recent data from different fields of neuroscience offer the basis for a new definition of the cortical system subserving reaching and, at the same time, for a reconsideration of the nature of the underlying visuo-to-motor transformation.
We prepared a novel series of conformationally restricted fused imidazole derivatives 4b, 4c and 4d (possessing 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroimidazo[4,5-c] pyridine and substituted 4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-benzimidazole for 4b, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydroimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine for 4c and 5,6,7,8-tetrahydroimidazo[1,5-a]pyridine for 4d as a basic amine part and (2-methoxyphenyl)aminocarbonyl group as an aromatic-carbonyl part). Their activities were then evaluated as an 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT3) receptor antagonist which may be useful for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) as well as for nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy. The most potent compound was N-(2-methoxyphenyl)-4,5,6, 7-tetrahydro-1H-benzimidazole-5-carboxamide 14 in this series with an ID50 value of 0.32 microgram/kg on the von Bezold-Jarisch reflex in rats and an IC50 value of 0.43 microM on the isolated colonic contraction in guinea pig, approximately ten and two times more potent than ondansetron 1, respectively. The structure activity relationships (SAR) study suggested that the high potency of 14 may be attributed to the suitable position and direction of the N-C-N centroid in the conformationally restricted imidazole ring against the planar (2-methoxyphenyl)aminocarbonyl part in the binding of 14 to the receptor.
A novel series of 4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-benzimidazole derivatives 4,5,6 and 7 was prepared and evaluated for activities as 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT3) receptor antagonists which may be useful for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) as well as nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy. These compounds were designed by modifying the aromatic-carbonyl part of N-(2-methoxyphenyl)-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-5-benzimidazolylcarboxamide 3, leaving the imidazole moiety unchanged as the amine part. The indole derivatives 7d, g, h and indolizine derivatives 7k, l were found to be highly potent on the von Bezold-Jarisch (B.J.) reflex test with ID50 values of below 0.1 microgram/kg, and the indoline derivative 6c, indole derivatives 7a, d, g, benzofurane derivative 7j and indolizine derivative 7k were observed to be very potent on the colonic contraction with IC50 values of below 0.1 microM. In particular, 7l was the most potent on the B.J. reflex (ID50 = 0.018 microgram/kg), approximately 200 and 50 times more potent than ondansetron 1 and granisetron 2, and 7k was the most potent on the colonic contraction (IC50 = 0.011 microM), approximately 70 and 6 times more potent than 1 and 2, respectively.



Ossification of the Posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL) has been thought to be a predominantly Japanese disease with few reports among the non-orientals and Caucasians. A prospective clinicoradiological study of 47 symptomatic Caucasoid Indians is reported. Twenty-seven patients presented with myelopathy, twelve with myeloradiculopathy and six with radiculopathy. 'Total' configuration of OPLL was the most frequent (70%). The most frequent location was at C3 and C4 levels. The thickness of OPLL ranged from 2.5 mm to 11.5 mm. Canal stenosis was most severe in patients with 'total' type of OPLL. Ossification of other spinal ligaments were seen in 50% of the patients. Twenty-one patients underwent decompressive laminectomy and twenty of them improved. The difference in the cervical canal diameters and the configuration of OPLL between the Japanese and our population (Caucasoid Indians) may be of therapeutic relevance.

Psychotic symptoms are prominent in schizophrenia and a frequent neuropsychiatric manifestation of Alzheimer's disease (AD), occurring in approximately 50% of patients affected. The shared psychiatric symptoms suggest common cerebral pathophysiologies. Radiologic and pathologic findings indicate a predilection toward limbic involvement, with structural and atrophic changes of the medical temporal region predominating in both disorders. Neurochemical alterations affecting the dopaminergic/cholinergic axis appear to be central to both schizophrenia and AD. The basic pathologies of the two disorders are different, but they have similarities in the pattern of regional brain dysfunction, biochemical dysfunction, and symptomatology. We represent a selective review of these similarities. Insights drawn from these observations enrich the understanding of each disorder.
Prostaglandin(PG) E2 is regarded as an essential mediator in the central action of pyrogens and fever. However, it is not clear how the appearance of cytokines in the circulation leads to the rise of PGE2 in brain (fever to an external noxa), nor is it clear whether bacterial toxins originating within the brain activate PGE2 directly or via the cytokines (fever to a central noxa). We have previously reported that human interleukin 1 (hIL-1) has no effect on PGE2 synthesis in isolated, feline cerebral microvessels. Since cytokine action may be species-specific and interleukin 6 (IL-6) is considered as important as IL-1 for fever, we have now examined the response of isolated, murine cerebral microvessels to homologous and heterologous IL-1 beta (rIL-1 beta and hIL-1 beta), heterologous IL-6 (hIL-6), and endotoxin. The same pyrogens were tested on rat cerebrocortical minces. We have found that PGE2 formation in the microvessels is not changed by either IL-1 beta (both forms) or hIL-6. Conversely, in brain minces rIL-1 beta (but not hIL-1 beta or hIL-6) is a PGE2 activator. Endotoxin stimulated PGE2 synthesis in both preparations and its action in brain was fully reversed by the hIL-1 receptor antagonist (hIL-1ra). Our data indicate that the cerebral microvasculature does not lend itself to a transducing function in the fever to an external noxa. In addition, they point to a mediator role of IL-1 in the fever to a central noxa.
We have examined the expression of neuregulin and its putative receptors, erbB2/neu, erbB3 and erbB4/tyro2 during retinal development, and tested several potential functions of this class of molecules in dissociated rat retinal cell cultures. At least one form of neuregulin is expressed in the retina, from the earliest stages of retinal development examined; in addition, all three of the known receptors are expressed by retinal neurons in a developmentally regulated manner. When added to cultures of embryonic or neonatal rat retinal cells, neuregulin (rhGGF2) promotes survival and neurite extension from retinal neurons in a dose-dependent manner. These results indicate that in addition to their well described effects on glia, the neuregulins also have direct effects on central nervous system neurons.
During vertebrate development, neural crest cells are thought to pattern many aspects of head organization, including the segmented skeleton and musculature of the jaw and gills. Here we describe mutations at the gene chinless, chn, that disrupt the skeletal fates of neural crest cells in the head of the zebrafish and their interactions with muscle precursors. chn mutants lack neural-crest-derived cartilage and mesoderm-derived muscles in all seven pharyngeal arches. Fate mapping and gene expression studies demonstrate the presence of both undifferentiated cartilage and muscle precursors in mutants. However, chn blocks differentiation directly in neural crest, and not in mesoderm, as revealed by mosaic analyses. Neural crest cells taken from wild-type donor embryos can form cartilage when transplanted into chn mutant hosts and rescue some of the patterning defects of mutant pharyngeal arches. In these cases, cartilage only forms if neural crest is transplanted at least one hour before its migration, suggesting that interactions occur transiently in early jaw precursors. In contrast, transplanted cells in paraxial mesoderm behave according to the host genotype; mutant cells form jaw muscles in a wild-type environment. These results suggest that chn is required for the development of pharyngeal cartilages from cranial neural crest cells and subsequent crest signals that pattern mesodermally derived myocytes.
Endothelin-1 (ET) is a potent vasoconstrictor of vasa nervorum, the vascular supply of peripheral nerve trunks, that may, through elevated circulating levels, promote microangiopathy in human diabetes patients. In previous work, we observed that sciatic nerve trunks of rats exposed to epineurial ET developed transient dose-dependent endoneurial ischemia that might be associated with reversible motor conduction block. In the present study, we explored the possibility that ET ischemia might selectively damage axons of diabetic nerve trunks. We exposed the sciatic nerves of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes of 6-8 weeks duration and age-matched nondiabetic controls to supramaximal vasoconstrictive concentrations of epineurial ET and studied serial regional erythrocyte flux (laser Doppler flowmeter) and sciatic tibial motor conduction for up to 14 days. In diabetic rats, but not controls, ET ischemia damaged a large proportion of sciatic axons, predicted in each instance by focal motor conduction block across the site of ET application and eventual loss of distal motor nerve excitability. Histological studies confirmed the presence of severe axonal degeneration in diabetic sciatic nerves exposed to ET. Part of the susceptibility to ET in diabetes was accounted for by more intense and prolonged vasoconstriction. Diabetic nerves are selectively susceptible to ET-mediated ischemia.
Although estrogen can induce LH hypersecretion in ovariectomized (ovx) rats, the magnitude and duration of the LH surge are invariably far less than those of the preovulatory LH surge in cycling rats. Recently, the crucial roles of hypothalamic nitric oxide (NO) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the induction of LHRH and the LH surge have been recognized. In this study, we have tested the hypothesis that low grade stimulatory feedback effects of 17 beta-estradiol (E2) on LH secretion in ovx rats is due to a deficit in NO signaling. As the NO substrate, L-arginine (L-Arg), can enhance NO-dependent physiological responses, the effects of L-Arg on the LH surge in E2-primed ovx rats was studied. Ovx rats bearing permanent cannulas in the lateral cerebroventricle received 15-mm long SILASTIC capsules filled with E2 (300 micrograms/ml oil, s.c.) at 1000 h. Two days later, saline (SAL) or L-Arg (0.1 or 1 nmol in 5 microliters SAL) or D-Arg (1.0 nmol) was injected intracerebroventricularly every hour from 1100-1400. Blood samples were collected at 1100 h and at hourly intervals from 1400-1800 h via intraatrial cannulae implanted the day before. Whereas an expected moderate LH surge occurred in SAL-injected control rats, L-Arg, but not D-Arg, greatly augmented the magnitude and duration of the LH surge, with peak values attaining the range normally seen on proestrus. Furthermore, L-Arg (1 or 10.0 mM) and the NO donor, sodium nitroprusside (1 or 10.0 mM), stimulated the basal and K(+)-induced in vitro release of LHRH and NPY from the hypothalami of ovarian steroid-primed ovx rats. As NPY is stimulatory to LHRH release, we next tested the possibility that L-Arg/NO may initially stimulate NPY release in the hypothalamus, which, in turn, elicits LHRH discharge. E2-treated ovx rats receiving intracerebroventricular L-Arg were injected with antisense or missense oligodeoxynucleotides (oligos) to NPY-messenger RNA. Antisense, not missense, NPY oligos blocked the L-Arg-induced potentiation of the LH surge. These results revealed for the first time the neurochemical cause underlying the E2 feedback action and show that a deficiency in either L-Arg itself or L-Arg-based NO signaling is responsible for the low grade LH surge in ovx rats treated with estrogen alone. Additionally, the L-Arg-dependent potentiation of the LH surge may involve increased signaling in the NO and NPYergic systems, resulting in optimal LHRH hypersecretion from the hypothalamus.
Several lines of evidence suggest that nitric oxide (NO) is involved in the neuroendocrine control of reproductive function. This study was undertaken to determine 1) NO activity in the medial preoptic area (MPOA) where LHRH- and NO synthase-containing neurons are coextensive; 2) whether N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation, which stimulates LHRH release, augments NO activity in the MPOA; and 3) whether NO activation in the MPOA underlies the steroid dependency of NMDA-induced pituitary LH release. As extracellular levels of cGMP in discrete brain sites are a reliable index of basal and stimulated activity of NO, extracellular cGMP levels in the MPOA of freely moving, awake rats were measured by microdialysis in the current study. In the first experiment, the MPOA of intact and castrated male rats were microdialyzed with artificial cerebrospinal fluid at a rate of 5 microliters/min. The basal level of cGMP efflux was determined from the initial seven samples collected at 20-min intervals. The NO response to a single i.v. injection of NMDA (10 mg/kg) or saline was assessed in the next five samples. In the second experiment, the basal and NMDA-evoked NO effluxes in the MPOA of ovariectomized (ovx) and estrogen-treated ovx rats were examined. Results showed that in both sexes, the absence of gonadal steroids resulted in significantly lower basal cGMP levels. Additionally, the cGMP response to NMDA was steroid dependent. Whereas in castrated rats it failed to affect cGMP efflux, NMDA in intact male rats promptly raised cGMP levels at 20 min, and these elevated levels were maintained through the duration of the experiment. This NMDA-induced cGMP response, observed selectively in intact rats, was also associated with stimulation of plasma LH levels. In female rats, NMDA similarly enhanced MPOA cGMP efflux and pituitary LH secretion in estradiol benzoate-treated, but not in oil-treated, ovx rats. The NMDA receptor antagonist D,L-amino-5-phosphoropentanoic acid and the NO synthase inhibitor, N omega-nitro-L-arginine, completely blocked the NMDA-induced cGMP and LH responses, thereby demonstrating the specificity of the NMDA receptor --&gt; NO line of communication probably operating in the MPOA in the control of pituitary LH release. Therefore, these results show that gonadal steroids augment basal as well as NMDA-induced MPOA cGMP efflux in male and female rats. It is likely that facilitation of NO/cGMP activity in the MPOA may underlie the steroid dependency of NMDA-evoked LH hypersecretion in the rat.
The extent to which the insulin-like growth factor (IGF) system contributes to the initiation and progression of colon cancer remains poorly defined. We recently reported that a majority of human colon cancers express and secrete the potent mitogen IGF-II and at least two inhibitory binding proteins, IGFBP-2 and IGFBP-4. In the present study we measured the expression and secretion of IGF-II, IGFBP-2, and IGFBP-4 in relation to growth and differentiation of CaCo2 human colon cancer cells, which undergo spontaneous enterocytic differentiation in culture. Under the conditions of the present study, CaCo2 cells demonstrated an initial rapid phase of growth between Day 2 through days 7-9 of culture, followed by a significant retardation in the growth between days 9-13. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, a marker of enterocytic differentiation, progressively increased between Days 7-13 in culture, temporally correlating with post-confluent phase of negligible growth. These changes in growth and differentiation were accompanied by &gt; 80% decline in the relative concentration of IGF-II messenger RNA (mRNA) between Days 2-13. In contrast, the relative mRNA concentrations of inhibitory binding proteins (IGFBP-2 and IGFBP-4) increased rapidly to 200% of Day 2 values by Days 5-7 before returning to baseline levels by Day 13. The relative protein concentrations of the three factors measured in the conditioned media of the cells followed a pattern very similar to that measured for the mRNA levels. While the changes in the relative protein concentrations and mRNA levels of IGF-II and IGFBP-4 were statistically significant, the changes measured in the RNA and protein levels of IGFBP-2 were not, as a result of large inter experimental variations. Thus these results suggested that CaCo2 cell differentiation may require an attenuation of IGF-II effects. To confirm the latter possibility, additional studies were conducted with a specific neutralizing antibody against IGF-II. Incubation of CaCo2 cells with anti-IGF-II antibodies from Day 0 through Day 7 significantly retarded the growth of the cells and was accompanied by a significant increase in the concentration of Alkaline phosphatase activity per 10(6) cells. Recently, we reported a potent inhibitory role of IGFBP-4 in the growth of colon cancer cells. In the present studies, a possible important role of IGF-II is illustrated not only in the growth but also in the differentiation of colonic cells. Our studies thus suggest that differential expression of IGF-II and IGFBPs may be playing a critical role in both proliferation and differentiation of colonocytes.
The effect of temporarily suppressing the visual display of either the target or actual movement trajectory upon the accuracy of visuo-motor tracking was studied in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and healthy subjects. Subjects made wrist movements to superimpose a movement cursor upon a target cursor on a VDU screen. The tracking of slow ramp and sinewave target waveforms was investigated. Trials involving the three conditions of visual suppression, namely, target suppressed (TS), movement suppressed (MS) and non-suppressed (NS) were ordered randomly. In TS and MS trials, respectively, the target or movement cursor disappeared from the subject's view for a 4 s period whilst in NS trials both the target and movement cursors were continuously present. Prior to experimental trials, subjects initially practised a series of NS movements. Tracking errors were analysed by ANOVA for group, suppression condition and waveform effects. The tracking performance of the PD patients, during each form of suppression condition, was worse than that of healthy subjects. Both TS and MS elicited significant reductions in accuracy across groups and waveforms. TS induced a more pronounced impairment of tracking accuracy in the PD group than in the control group suggesting that parkinsonians exhibit an abnormally increased reliance upon visual information of the required trajectory during the present visuo-motor tracking tasks. By contrast, there was no between-group effect of MS in these tasks, suggesting that PD patients show a comparable dependence upon visual feedback of their own movements to that shown by controls.
Adaptive recovery following brain injury requires the topography of projection maps to be restored. In the adult mammalian brain, the regeneration of severed axons does not normally occur and repair mainly relies on collateral reinnervation from uninjured neurons. Although reinnervation can be target specific at the single cell level, it is not known if the new connections are organized correctly. The normal olivocerebellar projection had precise topography in which subnuclei of the inferior olive terminate as climbing fibres on chemically defined bands of cerebellar Purkinje cells. This precision has been exploited to determine the topography of climbing fibre sprouting following an inferior olive lesion in the adult rat. Collateral reinnervation was found to respect the boundaries between the Purkinje cell compartments. Thus, topographical cues are available in the adult during post-lesion plasticity to guide the restoration of the olivocerebellar projection map.
The neuropeptide gene encoding FMRFamide-like peptides in the pulmonate mollusc Lymnaea is subject to alternative splicing that generates cell-specific expression of distinct sets of peptides in the CNS. In this paper, we analyse the post-translational processing of the alternative protein precursor encoded by the exon I, III-V transcript (type 2 transcript). We raised anti-peptide antisera specific to distinct segments of the precursor in order to address the pattern of endoproteolytic cleavages, specifically around the tetrabasic site RRKR. We first showed that not all peptides predicted by the precursor structure are generated as final steady-state products. We then identified a novel peptide by biochemical purification, amino acid sequencing and mass spectrometry- the 35 amino acid SDPFFRFGKQQVATDDSGELDDEILSRVSDDDKNI, which we termed the acidic peptide, previously not predicted on the basis of the precursor structure. This novel peptide, abundant in the snail brain (0.7 pmol per central nervous system), includes the N-terminal sequence SDPFFRF, which was previously considered to be a variant of the known heptapeptide SDPFLRFamide, also encoded within the same protein precursor. We showed by in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry that the acidic peptide is produced in all cells that transcribe type 2 FMRFamide mRNA. We mapped the expression of this novel peptide in the CNS and localized it mainly in three identifiable neuronal clusters - the E, F and B groups of cells - and some additional neurons, all situated in three of the eleven central ganglia. Immunoreactive neurons included the single identifiable visceral white interneuron (VWI or VD4), a key cell of the cardiorespiratory network.
The floccular lobe of the monkey is critical for the generation of visually-guided smooth eye movements. The present experiments reveal physiological correlates of the directional organization in the primate floccular lobe by examining the selectivity for direction of eye motion and visual stimulation in the firing of individual Purkinje cells (PCs) and mossy fibers. During tracking of sinusoidal target motion along different axes in the frontoparallel plane, PCs fell into two classes based on the axis that caused the largest modulation of simple-spike firing rate. For &quot;horizontal&quot; PCs, the response was maximal during horizontal eye movements, with increases in firing rate during pursuit toward the side of recording (ipsiversive). For &quot;vertical&quot; PCs, the response was maximal during eye movement along an axis just off pure vertical, with increases in firing rate during pursuit directed downward and slightly contraversive. During pursuit of target motion at constant velocity, PCs again fell into horizontal and vertical classes that matched the results from sinusoidal tracking. In addition, the directional tuning of the sustained &quot;eye velocity&quot; and transient &quot;visual&quot; components of the neural responses obtained during constant velocity tracking were very similar. PCs displayed very broad tuning approximating a cosine tuning curve; the mean half-maximum bandwidth of their tuning curves was 170-180 degrees. Other cerebellar elements, related purely to eye movement and presumed to be mossy fibers, exhibited tuning approximately 40 degrees narrower than PCs and had best directions that clustered around the four cardinal directions. Our data indicate that the motion signals encoded by PCs in the monkey floccular lobe are segregated into channels that are consistent with a coordinate system defined by the vestibular apparatus and eye muscles. The differences between the tuning properties exhibited by PCs compared with mossy fibers indicate that a spatial transformation occurs within the floccular lobe.
Previously we showed that the potocytosis of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate is dependent on the acidification of plasmalemmal vesicles created each time a caveolae, closes off from the cell surface. We now report that bafilomycin A1, which is a specific inhibitor of the V-type proton ATPase, inhibits 5-methyltetrahydrofolate uptake into MA104 cells (ED50 = 150 nM). The inhibitory effect was reversed within 30 min after removal of the drug from the cells. Bafilomycin A1 had no effect on the binding of folic acid to its receptor. A concentration of up to 200 nM bafilomycin A1 did not affect sequestration of folate receptors. Immunoblotting showed that the 70-kDa subunit of the V-type proton pump was localized to caveolae-rich fractions isolated from the plasma membrane of these cells. These results suggest that a V-type proton pump acidifies the lumen of plasmalemmal vesicles during potocytosis.
Unilateral lesions of the entorhinal cortex have been shown to lead to dramatic increases in GFAP mRNA levels in denervated zones in the hippocampus and dentate gyrus and sometimes (but not always) in nondenervated zones in the contralateral hippocampus and dentate gyrus. The variable distribution of the increases in GFAP mRNA expression suggests that the events which trigger changes in GFAP mRNA levels occur to a variable extent in individual animals. The companion paper characterizes two candidate triggering events: spreading depression (SD) that occurs to a variable extent at the time of the lesion and recurrent seizures that occur during the early postlesion interval. The goal of the present study was to evaluate whether individual differences in the extent or spatial distribution of lesion-induced increases in GFAP mRNA are related to the occurrence of either SD or seizures. We quantified the increases in GFAP mRNA levels in individual animals that had been monitored physiologically to define the incidence of SD and postlesion seizures. The results revealed that the quantitative extent of the increases in GFAP mRNA in denervated zones and was not related to either SD or postlesion seizures. The increases in GFAP mRNA in nondenervated zones also were not related to episodes of spreading depression that occurred at the time of lesion production but were related to the spontaneous seizures that developed during the first 24 h postlesion after the animals had recovered from the surgical anesthesia. Taken together, these data indicate that physiological events that occur during the early postlesion interval can play an important role in determining the pattern and extent of altered cellular gene expression in response to an injury.
Destruction of the entorhinal cortex (EC) triggers a number of cellular and molecular responses in the denervated hippocampus and dentate gyrus. The signals that trigger these changes are not known but could include physiological events that occur during the production of the injury or during the early postlesion period. Of particular interest is whether experimental lesions induce seizures and/or spreading depression (SD), both of which have been shown to dramatically alter neuronal and glial gene expression. In the present study, acute neurophysiological techniques were used to evaluate whether seizures or SD occur during the production of EC lesions. Chronic recording techniques were used to monitor electroencephalographic (EEG) activity during the first 24 h after the injury in order to evaluate the extent of postlesion seizures. One or more episodes of SD occurred in 9 of 13 animals during the production of electrolytic EC lesions. However, hippocampal seizures were not observed except for very brief episodes of seizure activity at the onset of an episode of SD. Chronic recordings of postlesion EEG activity revealed that spontaneous electrographic seizures occurred during the first 24 h postlesion in all animals. The spontaneous electrographic seizures were approximately 30 s in duration and were not accompanied by motor convulsions. The first seizures occurred within several hours after the lesion, and seizures continued to occur periodically (at an average frequency of 0.42 per hour) over the 24-h recording period. Seizures occurred on the side of the brain ipsilateral to the lesion in all animals and occurred on the side contralateral to the lesion in 3 of 5 animals. These results indicate that EC lesions produce physiological events that occur variably in different animals; these processes may account for some of the variability in the cellular responses to this &quot;standardized&quot; injury.
RN33B cells, a CNS-derived neuronal precursor cell line, transplanted into normal adult rat hippocampus can survive and morphologically differentiate with their ultimate morphology dependent on the integration site. This study examined the differentiation and structural integration of RN33B cells transplanted into the lesioned adult hippocampus. Pyramidal neurons of the CA1-3 regions or granular neurons in the dentate gyrus were preferentially destroyed by unilateral intraventricular kainic-acid or intradentate colchicine injections, respectively. One week after the lesion, a suspension of undifferentiated beta-galactosidase (beta-gal)-labeled RN33B cells was stereotaxically transplanted into the lesioned or the contralateral hippocampus. After 5-7 weeks, sections of the recipient brains were analyzed by toluidine blue staining and immunohistochemistry for beta-gal, GFAP, and OX-42. A reactive gliosis was observed on the lesioned side which persisted up to 7 weeks postlesion (the latest time point examined). RN33b cells survived in the lesioned hippocampus and assumed variable morphologies depending on the hippocampal layer into which they integrated. Only RN33B cells located in intact or partially damaged cell layers or in the unlesioned contralateral hippocampus differentiated with morphologies similar to those of endogenous neurons characteristic of those layers. Cells located in layers completely depleted of endogenous neurons assumed bipolar morphologies or sent out multiple processes with no structural polarity, unlike the neuronal morphologies characteristically seen in intact hippocampal cell layers. These data suggest that the presence of some endogenous neurons and partially conserved cytoarchitectural organization are essential for immortalized neuroepithelial precursor cells to differentiate into region-specific neuronal cell types.
An ATP-sensitive potassium channel (KATP) is known to modulate insulin release from pancreatic beta cells. It has been proposed that potassium channels related to KATP in the nervous system might similarly modulate neurotransmitter release. We have therefore investigated the effects of KATP opening agents on GABA release in the globus pallidus. Diazoxide and cromakalim decreased the K(+)-evoked release of [3H]GABA from pallidal slices. The maximum inhibition observed for diazoxide (59%) and cromakalim (66%) was achieved at a concentration of 100 microM. The effects of both cromakalim and diazoxide were significantly antagonized by the concurrent application of the sulfonylurea glibenclamide (100 microM). Intrapallidal injections of diazoxide in the reserpine-treated rat model of Parkinson's disease reduced akinesia in a dose-dependent manner. These data suggest that manipulation of neuronal potassium channels with pharmacological properties similar to KATP may prove useful in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Cytokines, such as interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), are thought to be responsible for the compromised blood pressure regulation after systemic infection or other antigenic challenge. Because Ca homeostasis is critical for the maintenance of vascular tone, we hypothesized that cytokines may contribute to alterations in blood pressure by a mechanism involving the voltage-sensitive Ca channel in vascular smooth muscle (VSM) cells. Using nystatin-permeabilized patch techniques we examined the effects of IL-1 beta, TNF-alpha, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on the Ca channel of VSM cells isolated from rat tail artery. Both IL-1 beta (0.05--1 nM) and TNF-alpha (0.1--1 nM) increased, dose-dependently, the Ba2+ current carried in VSM Ca channels, whereas heat-denatured IL-1 beta was without significant effect on the channel. LPS (0.01--1.0 ng/ml) also increased the Ba2+ current with onset kinetics similar to the two cytokines. Prostaglandins were ruled out as an intermediary in VSM Ca channel modulation, as prostaglandin E2 had no effect and indomethacin (1 microM) failed to block TNF-alpha-induced Ca channel enhancement. The role of cyclic nucleotides in mediating TNF-alpha-induced changes in Ca channel activity was also assessed. Increasing intracellular cAMP via forskolin (1 microM) did not affect the response to TNF-alpha, but pretreatment with the membrane-permeant analog of cGMP, dibutyryl cGMP (100 microM), inhibited the response to TNF-alpha. These data demonstrate that IL-1 beta, TNF-alpha, and LPS have immediate effects on VSM cells via an interaction with the voltage-sensitive Ca channel, and these effects may he regulated by intracellular cGMP. Immunomodulation of Ca channels may represent an early signaling step in VSM cells mediating kinetically slower events, such as changes in gene transcription.
The mouse gene encoding glial high-affinity, Na+-dependent glutamate transporter Slc1a3 (GluT-1/GLAST) was isolated, and its structural organization was characterized. The gene appeared to exist as a single copy in the mouse genome and comprised 10 exons spanning more than 56 kilobases. The transcription initiation sites were mapped to positions 503, which is the first transcriptional point (defined as +1), 128 (+376), and 64 (+440) basepairs upstream of the 3'-end of exon 1 by primer extension. The 5'-flanking region of the mouse GluT-1 gene had a typical CCAAT box and a GC box but lacked a TATA box. These features of the promoter region were characteristic of housekeeping genes. The fusion plasmids containing approximately 4 kb of the 5'-flanking region (-3830 to +450) and the firefly luciferase gene induced a significant luciferase activity when transfected into COS-1 cells. Distal deletion of the 5'-flanking region, leaving 619 bp (-169 to +450), resulted in a marked decrease in luciferase activity in COS-1 cells, suggesting that a CCAAT box, which was positioned at -200, is necessary for the expression of this gene. In situ hybridization localized this gene to mouse chromosome 15A2. These structural features will lead to a better understanding of the regulatory mechanism of the expression of the GluT-1 gene by ischemia and will also provide a basis for future evolutionary comparisons with other neurotransmitter transporters.
Glial growth factors are proteins encoded by the neuregulin gene and are thought to signal via receptor tyrosine kinases. Many neuregulin gene products bind heparin, and we hypothesize that affinity for heparin may implicate cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HeSPGs) as co-receptors for the soluble neuregulin gene product, recombinant human glial growth factor 2 (rhGGF2). Using primary rat Schwann cell cultures, we show that exogenous heparin and heparan sulfate block rhGGF2-induced phosphorylation of putative neuregulin receptors, and block subsequent DNA synthesis; other glycosaminoglycans show no such effect. Inhibition of Schwann cell HeSPG biosynthesis by administration of beta-xyloside also blocks responsiveness to rhGGF2. In cell-free binding assays, rhGGF2 binds heparin and heparan sulfate with high affinity, while suramin and suramin-like molecules block this binding. These suramin-like molecules reversibly block Schwann cell responsiveness to rhGGF2 with a rank order of potency identical to that in the cell-free binding assay. Thus we demonstrate high affinity and specificity in the interaction of rhGGF2 with heparin-like molecules, and show that three distinct perturbations of this interaction on Schwann cells (exogenous heparin/ heparan sulfate treatment, inhibition of HeSPG biosynthesis, and treatment with suramin-like molecules) result in a loss of responsiveness to rhGGF2. These results support a model in which HeSPGs are critical components that modulate extracellular rhGGF2 signaling interactions with appropriate receptor tyrosine kinases.
Intracellular calcium responses of cultured rat Schwann cells to 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) were examined using the calcium indicator dye fluo-3. Consistent changes in [Ca2+]i were observed with bath application of 5-HT and the basis of these responses was characterized. Application of 5-HT elicited a transient increase in intracellular calcium in a subpopulation of cultured Schwann cells. In many responding cells, the response recurred at approximately regular intervals following the initial transient. In some cases, these oscillations lasted for hours following removal of 5-HT from the bath. The increase in intracellular calcium evoked by 5-HT still occurred in the absence of extracellular calcium, suggesting that 5-HT induces calcium release from intracellular stores. Consistent with this hypothesis, the response to 5-HT was prevented by depletion of inositol trisphosphate-sensitive intracellular calcium stores with thapsigargin. Bath application of caffeine, known to activate Ca2+ release from ryanodine receptor-mediated stores, did not elicit an increase in [Ca2+]i. These results also suggested that 5-HT acted by stimulating a member of the 5-HT2 receptor family since this family employs inositol trisphosphate as a second messenger. In agreement with this interpretation, it was found that the 5-HT-induced intracellular calcium transients could be reversibly blocked by both ketanserin and spiperone, suggesting that the transients are mediated by 5-HT2A receptors. Additional support for this conclusion was obtained by immunocytochemistry using an anti-idiotypic antibody that recognizes a subset of 5-HT receptors.
We prospectively assessed the relative specificity of the International Headache Society (IHS) criteria in 30 children referred to a pediatric neurologist. An important cause of headache, including raised intracranial pressure with slit ventricle syndrome, would have been missed in 4 children if one had relied on IHS criteria alone. Specific revisions have been proposed to minimize misclassification and further enhance the relevance of the IHS document for children.
We reviewed hospital case notes of all incident cases of intracerebral tumours in SE Scotland to analyse referral pattern and time intervals between presentation, diagnosis and treatment. We identified 439 new patients with intracerebral tumours in a two year period: 64% single (primary brain tumours 43%: metastasis 21%) and 36% multiple (metastases). Ninety-two per cent of patients were referred by GP's and 88% were self referrals to hospital or were initially identified at hospital follow-up clinics. Only 27% of patients were initially referred to the specialist centre (Western General Hospital) but 57% were CT scanned at the specialist centre and 83% were referred to there at some time. Time from GP referral to CT scan was related to availability of local CT scanning. Only 10% of cases with probable single metastases and 39% with HGG were treated with surgery plus radiation. Cranial irradiation was started within four weeks of CT diagnosis in 79% of those with metastases but in less than 5% of patients with HGG. The patterns of care for patients with brain tumours show great variation. Hospital referral guidelines, better inter-hospital and inter-department communications and more available access to CT scanning and radiotherapy should improve the quality of care and possibly treatment outcome in this group of patients.
The mechanisms behind the antipsychotic actions of neuroleptic drugs are still far from clear. There is general agreement that the antipsychotic action of most if not all neuroleptic drugs is related to their tendency to interact with one or several members of the receptor families for the neurotransmitters dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin. Currently, dopamine receptor subtypes belonging to the D2 family and several serotonin receptor subtypes are a focus of interest. Receptor effects are induced almost immediately upon the initiation of acute neuroleptic treatment and are generally proportional to the drug concentration in the tissue. Recent work has shown that the expression of neuropeptide genes, immediate early genes and genes for specific subtypes of glutamate receptors is stimulated in distinct regions of the brain during chronic treatment with neuroleptic drugs. These effects appear on time-scales that are similar to the relatively slow induction of antipsychotic action and are therefore of particular interest. In order to understand the mechanisms behind the latency for antipsychotic action these neurobiological correlates must be clarified. The effects can be regarded as a secondary cascade of events, probably initiated and maintained by receptor effects. In the present review, direct effects of neuroleptic drugs on monaminergic receptor subtypes are summarized together with their indirect effects on monoamine release and gene expression. These important findings suggest new targets in the search for the critical brain regions that mediate antipsychotic action.
The frequency of the HLA-DR4-DQ4 haplotype (DRB1(*)0405-DQA1(*)0302-DQB1(*)0401) is significantly increased in Japanese patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and DRB1(*)0405-binding peptide motifs were identified in our previous studies. To clarify the DQ4-binding peptide motifs, the primary structure of DQ4-binding peptides was determined by affinity-based selection of a phage random peptide library. Analog peptides of a high-affinity DQ4 binder revealed that two major anchors (VxxxxxxxR; where x is any amino acid) play an essential role in binding to DQ4. The affinity of synthetic VAAAAAAAR-based analog peptides showed that substituting V to W, G, L, I, M, P, F, Y or A and R to H, M, L, I or V allows binding. The involvement of the ninth residue of the peptides, especially Arg, was critical for high-affinity binding. In comparison with other class II-binding peptide motifs reported to date, peptide motifs for DQ4 were unique, in that Gly and Pro are allowed as low-affinity N-terminal anchors. Interestingly, 94 putative DQ4-binding motifs were detected in the human type II collagen molecule, since it is composed of (Gly-X1-X2)n and is rich in R and P at positions X2. However, no significant differences were observed between the affinities of the collagen-derived peptides with DR or DQ molecules of RA-susceptible DR4-DQ4 and with those of non-susceptible DR4-DQ8 (DRB1(*)0406-DQA1(*)0301-DQB1(*)0302) haplotypes, indicating that the susceptibility to RA is not a simple immune response gene phenomenon specific to collagen. The immunogenetic implications of the unique peptide motifs for DQ are discussed.



We examined the physiologic role of endogenous brain angiotensin III (AIII), an active degradative product of angiotensin II, in drinking behavior. Adult, male spontaneously hypertensive (SH) and Wistar-Kyoto normotensive (WKY) rats that were instrumented with an intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) cannula connected to an osmotic minipump for chronic infusion were used. 7-day i.c.v. infusion of the specific AIII antagonist, Ile(7)-AIII (10 or 100 pmol/min), resulted in no significant alteration in daily (24 h), diurnal (8:00 a.m.-8.00 p.m.) or nocturnal (8:00 p.m.-8:00 a.m.) basal water intake in both SH and WKY rats. Similar results were obtained with i.c.v. infusion of the aminopeptidase inhibitor, bestatin (150 or 300 pmol/min), given alone or simultaneously with Ile(7)-AIII (10 pmol/min). Rats that were water-deprived for the first 3 days of 7-day infusion of Ile(7)-AIII consumed significantly less water during the first 2 h after water became available. Furthermore, the accumulated water intake during the first 24 h was appreciably greater in SH than WKY rats. We interpret these results to suggest that the endogenous brain AIII may not be tonically involved in fluid homeostasis. Instead, it must be activated under conditions of dehydration, such as water deprivation, particularly in the SHRs, to initiate drinking behavior. Copyright 1996 S. Karger AG, Basel
Dynamins are a family of 100-kD GTPases comprised of at least three distinct gene products and multiple alternatively spliced variants. Homologies with the shibire gene product in Drosophila melanogaster and with Vps1p and Dnm1p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae suggest that dynamins play an important role in vesicular transport. Morphological studies have localized brain dynamin to coated pits and tubular invaginations at the plasma membrane, where it is believed to facilitate the formation of endocytic vesicles. Because similar membrane-budding events occur at the Golgi apparatus and multiple dynamin isoforms exist, we have studied the distribution of dynamins in mammalian cells. To this end, we generated and characterized peptide-specific antibodies directed against conserved regions of the dynamin family. By immunoblot analysis, these antibodies reacted specifically with a 100-kD protein in fibroblasts that sedimented with membranes and microtubules in vitro in a manner similar to brain dynamin. By immunofluorescence microscopy, these antibodies strongly labeled the Golgi complex in cultured fibroblasts and melanocytes, as confirmed by double labeling with a Golgi-specific antibody. Furthermore, Western blot analysis showed significant enrichment of a 100-kD dynamin band in Golgi fractions isolated from the liver. To substantiate these findings, we use a specific antidynamin antibody to immunoisolate Golgi membranes from subcellular Golgi fractions, as determined by EM and immunoblot analysis. This study provides the first morphological and biochemical evidence that a dynamin-like protein associates with the Golgi apparatus in mammalian cells, and suggests that dynamin-related proteins may have multiple cytoplasmic distributions. The potential contributions of dynamin to the secretory and endocytic pathways are discussed.
DM-GRASP is an immunoglobulin superfamily cell adhesion molecule that is expressed in both the developing nervous and immune system. Specific populations of neurons respond to DM-GRASP substrates appears to require homophilic interactions between DM-GRASP molecules. We were interested in determining whether DM-GRASP interacts heterophilically with other ligands as well. We have found that eleven proteins from embryonic chick brain membranes consistently bind to and elute from a DM-GRASP-Sepharose affinity column. One of these proteins is DM-GRASP itself, consistent with its known homophilic binding. Another protein, at 130 kD, is immunoreactive with monoclonal antibodies to NgCAM. Other neural cell adhesion molecules were not detected in the eluate. The DM-GRASP-Sepharose eluate also contains a potent neurite stimulating activity, which cannot be accounted for by either DM-GRASP or NgCAM. To investigate the interaction of DM-GRASP and NgCAM, antibodies against DM-GRASP were added to neuronal cultures extending neurites on an NgCAM substrate. The presence of antibodies to DM-GRASP decreased neurite extension on laminin, suggesting that the antibody is not toxic or generally inhibiting motility. We present two possible models for the DM-GRASP-NgCAM association and a hypothesis for neural cell adhesion function that features the dimerization of cell adhesion molecules.
Water-suppressed chemical shift magnetic resonance imaging was used to detect neurochemical alterations in vivo in neurotoxin-induced rat models of Huntington's and Parkinson's disease. The toxins were: N-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+), aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA), 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), malonate, and azide. Local or systemic injection of these compounds caused secondary excitotoxic lesions by selective inhibition of mitochondrial respiration that gave rise to elevated lactate concentrations in the striatum. In addition, decreased N-acetylaspartate (NAA) concentrations were noted at the lesion site over time. Measurements of lactate washout kinetics demonstrated that t1/2 followed the order: 3-NP approximately MPP+ &gt; AOAA approximately malonate, which parallels the expected lifetimes of the neurotoxins based on their mechanisms of action. Further increases in lactate were also caused by intravenous infusion of glucose. At least part of the excitotoxicity is mediated through indirect glutamate pathways because lactate production and lesion size were diminished using unilateral decortectomies (blockade of glutamatergic input) or glutamate antagonists (MK-801). Lesion size and lactate were also diminished by energy repletion with ubiquinone and nicotinamide. Lactate measurements determined by magnetic resonance agreed with biochemical measurements made using freeze clamp techniques. Lesion size as measured with MR, although larger by 30%, agreed well with lesion size determined histologically. These experiments provide evidence for impairment of intracellular energy metabolism leading to indirect excitotoxicity for all the compounds mentioned before and demonstrate the feasibility of small-volume metabolite imaging for in vivo neurochemical analysis.
Serotonergic system abnormalities have been implicated in major depression, suicide, violence, alcoholism, and other psychopathologies. The prolactin response to fenfluramine has been widely used as a neuroendocrine probe to study brain serotonin responsivity. We have extended this methodology by using the positron emission tomography (PET) 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18FDG) method to examine the fenfluramine-induced changes in regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRglu), an indicator of changes in regional neuronal activity. We report results on 16 healthy controls, each of whom underwent two PET studies. One group of six subjects had a placebo on day 1 and a single 60 mg oral dose of fenfluramine on day 2. The second group, of 10 subjects, was tested on two consecutive occasions without drug or placebo. Data were analyzed for significant rCMRglu changes on day 2 vs day 1 using the statistical parametric mapping method (p &lt; 0.01). Subjects who did not receive drugs showed no statistically significant areas of rCMRglu increase or decrease on day 2 versus day 1. In contrast, the group that received fenfluramine showed significant fenfluramine-induced responses. Areas of rCMRglu increases involved mainly the left prefrontal and left temperoparietal cortex. Within the prefrontal cortex, two major areas of rCMRglu increase included, first, an area centered on the anterior cingulate and, second, an area in the lateral prefrontal cortex involving principally the inferior, middle, and superior frontal gyri. Some decreases in rCMRglu were observed, principally in the right hemisphere. This PET-fenfluramine paradigm is a potentially useful method for studying abnormalities of serotonin function in the prefrontal cortex.
A method for the detection and tracking of propagated fluorescence transients as indicators of depolarizations in focal cerebral ischemia is described, together with initial results indicating the potential of the method. The cortex of the right cerebral hemisphere was exposed for nonrecovery experiments in five cats anesthetized with chloralose and subjected to permanent middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. Fluorescence with 370-nm excitation (attributed to the degree of reduction of the NAD/H couple) was imaged with an intensified charge-coupled device camera and digitized. Sequences of images representing changes in gray level from a baseline image were examined, together with the time courses of mean gray levels in specified regions of interest. Spontaneous increases in fluorescence occurred, starting most commonly at the edge of areas of core ischemia; they propagated usually throughout the periinfarct zone and resolved to varying degrees and at varying rates, depending on proximity of the locus to the MCA input. When a fluorescence transient reached the anterior cerebral artery territory, its initial polarity reversed from an increase to a decrease in fluorescence. An initial increase in fluorescence in response to the arrival of a transient may characterize cortex that will become infarcted, if pathophysiological changes in the periinfarct zone are allowed to evolve naturally.

The site and mode of action of serotonin on locomotion were investigated in the parasitic nematode Ascaris suum. Injection of serotonin into Ascaris immediately caused paralysis in animals that were generating locomotory waveforms. Injected serotonin also increased body length and decreased the number of propagating body waves. Similar injections into the male tail produced a ventral tail curl. Injection of N-acetyl-serotonin had no effect on the generation of locomotory waveforms, but increased the body length and decreased the number of body waves in the waveform. Other biogenic amines were also tested but were much less potent. Serotonin decreased the amplitude of a submaximal acetylcholine-induced muscle contraction and increased the time to attain this contraction. The time course of this effect on the response to ACh was much slower than the action of injected serotonin on locomotory waveforms, suggesting that additional elements are involved in the action of serotonin on locomotory behavior. Serotonin abolished spontaneous slow potentials in VI motor neurons and decreased the frequency of EPSPs in DE2 motor neurons, probably by a pre-synaptic mechanism. In the male tail, serotonin depolarized the male-specific transverse ventral muscle cells, but did not affect either dorsal or ventral longitudinal muscle cells.
High-voltage activated Ca channels in tiger salamander cone photoreceptors were studied with nystatin-permeabilized patch recordings in 3 mM Ca2+ and 10 mM Ba2+. The majority of Ca channel current was dihydropyridine sensitive, suggesting a preponderance of L-type Ca channels. However, voltage-dependent, incomplete block (maximum 60%) by nifedipine (0.1-100 microM) was evident in recordings of cones in tissue slice. In isolated cones, where the block was more potent, nifedipine (0.1-10 microM) or nisoldipine (0.5-5 microM) still failed to eliminate completely the Ca channel current. Nisoldipine was equally effective in blocking Ca channel current elicited in the presence of 10 mM Ba2+ (76% block) or 3 mM Ca2+ (88% block). 15% of the Ba2+ current was reversibly blocked by omega-conotoxin GVIA (1 microM). After enhancement with 1 microM Bay K 8644, omega-conotoxin GVIA blocked a greater proportion (22%) of Ba2+ current than in control. After achieving partial block of the Ba2+ current with nifedipine, concomitant application of omega-conotoxin GVIA produced no further block. The P-type Ca channel blocker, omega-agatoxin IVA (200 nM), had variable and insignificant effects. The current persisting in the presence of these blockers could be eliminated with Cd2+ (100 microM). These results indicate that photoreceptors express an L-type Ca channel having a distinguishing pharmacological profile similar to the alpha 1D Ca channel subtype. The presence of additional Ca channel subtypes, resistant to the widely used L-, N-, and P-type Ca channel blockers, cannot, however, be ruled out.
To investigate the viral replication cycle and genomic heterogeneity of hepatitis C virus (HCV), we established an HCV cultivation system by using a primary hepatocyte culture from patients with chronic hepatitis C. Liver tissue was obtained by needle biopsy or surgery, then hepatocytes were isolated by collagenase digestion. After several weeks, we determined the HCV RNA titre of the cultured cells and supernatant by a competitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method. A significant amount of HCV RNA was observed in the cells and supernatant during cultivation. Negative-strand RNA, regarded as a marker of viral replication, could be detected by a strand-specific reverse transcription PCR method and the HCV core protein could be detected by immunofluorescence microscopy. Many HCV particles released into the supernatant were infectious. In addition, we compared the nucleotide sequences in the E2/NS1 region of pre- and post-cultivation hepatocytes for 8 weeks. At the beginning of the culture period, three major HCV types containing two subtypes were isolated. Following cultivation, the same types were isolated from the cultured hepatocytes in the same ratio as prior to cultivation. We could detect the same clones in this patient's serum, but in vivo we observed genetic variability over a 6 month interval. One clone detected throughout the 6 month period mutated extensively in the hypervariable region. These results indicated that HCV can replicate in cultured hepatocytes, and that infectious virions are released into the supernatant. This cultivation system should facilitate the study of HCV genomic heterogeneity, infection and replication.
Bromocriptine, a dopamine agonist, alleviates symptoms of Parkinson's disease, even when administered alone, and is used for its treatment. Better therapeutic effects are, however, achieved when bromocriptine is used in combination with levodopa. In this study, we examined the biochemical changes caused by bromocriptine administration with and without levodopa, and evaluated the effects of the treatments on dopamine turnover in the mouse striatum. Results show that dopamine turnover is suppressed by the administration of bromocriptine alone with a slight decrease in the amount of dopamine, and dopamine turnover is very strongly promoted by the administration of levodopa. When the two drugs are administered together, bromocriptine enhances the levodopa-induced increase in dopamine turnover in the striatum. These findings indicate that bromocriptine therapy in combination with levodopa enhances the dopaminergic function and suggest that the combination therapy of bromocriptine and levodopa shows good efficacy. The results of this study may, thus, provide a theoretical basis for the combination therapy of bromocriptine and levodopa.

Dopamine transporters (DATs) from the caudate nucleus of four species (rat, mouse, dog, and human) and four regions of rat brain (striatum, nucleus accumbens, prefrontal cortex, and midbrain) were photoaffinity labeled and analyzed by immunoprecipitation and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis for cross-reactivity to four epitope-specific rat antipeptide antibodies. Each of these antibodies varied in its efficiency at recognizing DAT. The DATs from the rat brain regions exhibited the same degree of recognition by each of the four sera, a result compatible with these proteins being the product of a single gene. The DATs from the different species were recognized by all four sera but with different efficiencies, possibly relating to amino acid sequence differences within the immunizing epitope. All of the photolabeled, immunoprecipitated DATs migrated with a molecular mass of approximately 80 kDa, and no lower molecular mass forms were found. The DATs from all species and brain regions tested were shown by enzymatic deglycosylation to contain N-linked carbohydrates and sialic acids in amounts comparable with rat striatal DATs. The finding that no photolabeled DAT forms &lt; 80 kDa were isolated from membranes indicates that partially or incompletely glycosylated forms are not present, even in the midbrain cell bodies where immature forms might be expected to be found. These findings verify the utility of these anti-rat antibodies as biochemical tools for studying DATs from other species and extend our knowledge of biochemical characteristics of DATs from these species and brain regions.
The existence of both nitric oxide synthase (NOS) immunoreactive interneurons and amino acid neurotransmitter-mediated nitric oxide (NO) release in the striatum suggests a role for NO in modulating striatal function. To explore the potential interaction between NO and dopaminergic neurotransmission, the NO-releasing agent (+/-)-S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP) was administered locally into the anterior medial striatum of chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats. SNAP, at 0.5, 1, and 2 mM concentrations, elevated striatal extracellular (EC) dopamine (DA) to 200 +/- 42, 472 +/- 120, and 2,084 +/- 496%, respectively, above baseline levels. Perfusion with (+/-)-penicillamine (PEN, 1 mM), the non-NO-containing carrier component of SNAP, was ineffective, indicating that PEN is not responsible for SNAP-mediated DA release. Additional microdialysis experiments suggest SNAP-mediated DA release is not due to NO-induced neurotoxicity or blockade of the DA transporter. The DA-releasing effect of SNAP was attenuated under calcium-free conditions and abolished in rats pretreated with reserpine (5 mg/kg), implicating a calcium-sensitive vesicular-dependent release process. To determine the mechanism of SNAP-mediated DA release, the guanylyl cyclase (GC) inhibitor LY 83583 (100 microM) was administered 100 min before and during the SNAP pulse. LY 83583 elevated EC DA levels approximately fivefold and potentiated the DA-releasing effect of SNAP to 2,598 +/- 551% above basal DA levels. Similar pretreatments with both the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist MK-801 (10 microM) and the competitive NMDA-receptor antagonist (+/-)-3-(carboxypiperazin-4-yl) propyl-1-phosphonic acid [(+/-)-CPP, 100 microM] blocked SNAP-mediated DA release. SNAP-mediated DA release was also significantly blunted by pretreatment and coperfusion with MgSO4 (10 mM) and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX, 10 microM) but not (+)-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid (AP-3, 10 microM). These results suggest that NO releases DA via a calcium-sensitive vesicular-dependent process that is independent of GC activation. In addition, NMDA and kainate/ (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor-mediated mechanisms are implicated in NO-induced DA release.
The nervous tissue-specific protein B-50 (GAP-43), which has been implicated in the regulation of neurotransmitter release, is a member of a family of atypical calmodulin-binding proteins. To investigate to what extent calmodulin and the interaction between B-50 and calmodulin are involved in the mechanism of Ca(2+)-induced noradrenaline release, we introduced polyclonal anti-calmodulin antibodies, calmodulin, and the calmodulin antagonists trifluoperazine, W-7, calmidazolium, and polymyxin B into streptolysin-O-permeated synaptosomes prepared from rat cerebral cortex. Anti-calmodulin antibodies, which inhibited Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II autophosphorylation and calcineurin phosphatase activity, decreased Ca(2+)-induced nor-adrenaline release from permeated synaptosomes. Exogenous calmodulin failed to modulate release, indicating that if calmodulin is required for vesicle fusion it is still present in sufficient amounts in permeated synaptosomes. Although trifluoperazine, W-7, and calmidazolium inhibited Ca(2+)-induced release, they also strongly increased basal release. Polymyxin B potently inhibited Ca(2+)-induced noradrenaline release without affecting basal release. It is interesting that polymyxin B was also the only antagonist affecting the interaction between B-50 and calmodulin, thus lending further support to the hypothesis that B-50 serves as a local Ca(2+)-sensitive calmodulin store underneath the plasma membrane in the mechanism of neurotransmitter release. We conclude that calmodulin plays an important role in vesicular noradrenaline release, probably by activating Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent enzymes involved in the regulation of one or more steps in the release mechanism.
We examined the eye-fixation pattern of a patient with severe left unilateral spatial neglect who showed leftward searches of various extent in more than half of line bisection trials. Because of complete left homonymous hemianopia, he perceived only the segment of the line between its right endpoint and the point of the leftmost fixation. In the trials with leftward searches, he frequently placed the subjective midpoint on the right part of the perceived segment. In the trials without leftward searches, he placed it near the left extreme point of the perceived segment. For all these bisections, the subjective midpoint was constantly placed far to the right of the true midpoint of the line irrespective of the length perceived. We consider that in severe left unilateral spatial neglect, rightward attentional bias is the predominant factor that determines where to place the subjective midpoint. Transient attentional shift to the left may produce leftward searches, but it does not induce effective processing of line bisection.
Thirty-four patients with idiopathic fluctuating Parkinson's disease and early afternoon &quot;delayed on&quot; or severely resistant &quot;off&quot; periods, in spite of long-term antiparkinsonian therapy, were studied. The first afternoon levodopa administration was substituted with an equimolar dosage of the liquid formulation levodopa methyl ester (LDME). The major end-points for efficacy were latency to &quot;on&quot; and duration of &quot;on&quot; periods. The patients were divided into five subgroups according to their baseline treatment and they were evaluated monthly for 6 months using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale. The patients completed weekly self-evaluation using an &quot;on-off&quot; chart. LDME was well tolerated by all the patients. A statistically significant reduction in latency to &quot;on&quot; was observed in all patients. The clinical effect of LDME remained stable during the treatment period (repeat measures ANOVA). The more rapid clinical effect of LDME and its stable and predictable antiparkinsonian activity represents a new and useful approach for treating patients with complicated Parkinson's disease.

1. Proteins of the Kv4 or Shal-related subfamily are key components of transient K+ channels (A channels) operating at subthreshold values of the membrane potential. We have cloned and characterized a new mammalian Kv4 or Shal-related cDNA (Kv4.3) that predicts a protein with strong sequence conservation with the other known members of this subfamily. 2. Injection of Kv4.3 transcripts into Xenopus oocytes generates an A type K+ current, with small but physiologically significant differences from the currents expressed by Kv4.2 and Kv4.1 mRNAs. Kv4.3 currents can be modified to resemble native A currents by coinjection with a low molecular weight mRNA fraction from rat brain which does not express detectable currents on its own. Particularly striking is a 7-to-10-fold increase in the rate of recovery from inactivation, a 5- to 10-fold increase in current magnitude and a 3- to 4-fold increase in sensitivity to 4-amino pyridine (4-AP). 3. In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to compare the expression of the three known Kv4 genes. Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 (but not Kv4.1) are abundant in the adult rat brain, with each displaying a specific, but sometimes overlapping pattern of expression. Moreover, a reciprocal gradient of expression of Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 transcripts is seen in some brain areas, such as in the pyramidal cell layers of the hippocampus and the granule cell layer of the cerebellum. Therefore Kv4 proteins may form heteromultimeric channels of distinct subunit composition in different neurons. Moreover, the results suggest that neurons such as pyramidal cells in the hippocampus and granule cells in the cerebellum represent heterogeneous cell populations in terms of their ISA, and hence in their firing patterns. Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 also display complementary expression in the heart, with Kv4.3 being more abundant in atria and Kv4.2 in ventricle. The existence of multiple Kv4 proteins forming channels of variable subunit combinations helps explain the diversity of ISA channels in neurons.
1. Membrane potential responses of dissociated gerbil type I semicircular canal hair cells to current injections in whole cell current-clamp have been measured. The input resistance of type I cells was 21.4 +/- 14.3 (SD) M omega, (n = 25). Around the zero-current potential (Vz = -66.6 +/- 9.3 mV, n = 25), pulsed current injections (from approximately -200 to 750 pA) produced only small-amplitude, pulse-like changes in membrane potential. 2. Injecting constant current to hyperpolarize the membrane to around -100 mV resulted in a approximately 10-fold increase in membrane resistance. Current pulses superimposed on this constant hyperpolarization produced larger and more complex membrane potential changes. Depolarizing currents &gt; or = 200 pA caused a rapid transient peak voltage before a plateau. 3. Membrane voltage was able to faithfully follow sine-wave current injections around Vz over the range 1-1,000 Hz with &lt; 25% attenuation at 1 kHz. A previously described K conductance, IKI, which is active at Vz, produces the low input resistance and frequency response. This was confirmed by pharmacologically blocking IKI. This conductance, present in type I cells but not type II hair cells, would appear to confer on type I cells a lower gain, but a much broader bandwidth at Vz, than seen in type II cells.
1. The cytosolic concentration of a neurotransmitter is believed to be an important factor determining its release. The effects of 3-mercaptopropionic acid (MP) and aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA), glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) blockers, on GABAergic postsynaptic and presynaptic inhibitory neurotransmission were examined in the crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) opener neuromuscular synapses. 2. Intracellular recordings of evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) as well as loose macropatch clamp measurements of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were used to evaluate the effects of the drugs, which were applied exclusively to the nerve bundle. 3. Under normal conditions, a stimulus train to the inhibitor preceding the excitor stimulation elicited a large reduction in EPSP amplitude in a time interval-dependent manner. This inhibition is effected by postsynaptic as well as presynaptic processes. 4. Treatment with MP or AOAA decreased the IPSP amplitude and its altered conductance but had no effect on the IPSP reversal potential or the resting potential of the cell. They did, however, slightly increase the Rin of the fiber. 5. Quantal analysis of single IPSCs revealed that GAD blockers increased the number of failures and thus reduced quantal content (m), diminished the probability of release (p), but did not affect the quantum current (q) or the statistical parameter (n), believed to be the number of available active zones. 6. Quantal analysis of EPSCs, released after interaction with the inhibitor, revealed a reduction in m without any effect on q. GAD blockers greatly reduced the efficacy of this inhibition without affecting the EPSC q. 7. GAD blockers increased the output of the excitor release sites by the following mechanisms: 1) increased EPSC, 2) increased EPSC facilitation, or 3) enhancement of spontaneous activity (miniature EPSCs). 8. Short time incubation with picrotoxin and CGP-35348 eliminated IPSCs and evoked inhibition. However, longer exposure (90 min) increased the excitor responses, similarly to the effects of GAD blockers. 9. Baclofen, a gamma-aminobutyric acid-B (GABAB) agonist, antagonized AOAA effects on evoked inhibition. 10. These results demonstrate that GAD blockers decrease postsynaptic and presynaptic inhibition by reducing both tonic and evoked release, most likely by diminishing p. 11. The reduction in GABA synthesis and release revealed a complex mechanism for GABAergic metabotropic regulation of inhibition efficacy and the release from the excitor glutamatergic terminals.
1. The present studies investigated conditions for the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the local horizontal pathways of layers II/III in the primary motor cortex (MI) of the adult rat. Field potential and intracellular recordings demonstrated synaptic interactions across the superficial layers within MI that could be enhanced transiently by focal application of the gamma-aminobuturic acid-A receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide (Bic) at the recording site. 2. Field potentials evoked in the superficial MI horizontal pathways increased in amplitude after tetanizing, theta burst stimulation (TBS), but only when Bic was applied transiently at the recording site immediately before TBS. In the absence of Bic, TBS failed to produce long-lasting increases in horizontally evoked field responses. By contrast, TBS delivery during focal Bic application increased field potential amplitudes by 25-35% when measured 25-30 min after stimulation. The amount of potentiation was greater when two converging horizontal inputs were stimulated together but was not increased with higher intensity stimulation. Persistent effects of Bic application alone were evident. However, these effects were small unless Bic application continued until evoked field potential amplitude increase exceeded 200% of baseline. 3. The synaptic nature of field potential increases were confirmed using intracellular recordings of layer II/III neurons located near field potential electrodes. 4. LTP also could be induced without Bic application by cotetanization of vertical pathways simultaneously with horizontal activation. Vertical conditioning alone at 2 Hz, which affects inhibitory efficacy, was shown to transiently relieve depression of successive responses that ordinarily occurs during a burst of three horizontal stimuli. These results suggest that LTP of horizontal pathways may be regulated by spatiotemporal interactions between horizontal and vertical pathways. 5. Horizontal LTP was blocked reversibly by bath application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, thereby implicating NMDA-receptor activation in LTP induction for these pathways. 6. The results confirm and extend our previous finding that the potential for activity-dependent modification of synaptic connections exists within the intrinsic horizontal connections of the superficial cortical layers. Synaptic modification across horizontally connected neurons appears to be regulated both by the arrangement of intrinsic circuitry and by the availability of mechanisms for modification at individual synapses. The properties of horizontal connections indicate that they form a spatial substrate and provide an activity-dependent mechanism for plasticity of adult cortical representations.
Although hyperkinesis is expressed in several neurological disorders, the biological basis of this phenotype is unknown. The mouse mutant coloboma (Cml+) exhibits profound spontaneous locomotor hyperactivity resulting from a deletion mutation. This deletion encompasses several genes including Snap, which encodes SNAP-25, a nerve terminal protein involved in neurotransmitter release. Administration of amphetamine, a drug that acts presynaptically, markedly reduced the locomotor activity in coloboma mice but increased the activity of control mice implicating presynaptic function in the behavioral abnormality. In contrast, the psychostimulant methylphenidate increased locomotor activity in both coloboma and control mice. When a transgene encoding SNAP-25 was bred into the coloboma strain to complement the Snap deletion, the hyperactivity expressed by these mice was rescued, returning these corrected mice to normal levels of locomotor activity. These results demonstrate that the hyperactivity exhibited by these mice is the result of abnormalities in presynaptic function specifically attributable to deficits in SNAP-25 expression.
Population bursts of the CA3 network, which occur during eating, drinking, awake immobility, and slow-wave sleep, produce a large field excitatory postsynaptic potential throughout stratum radiatum of the CA1 field (sharp wave). The CA3 burst sets into motion a short-lived, dynamic interaction between CA1 pyramidal cells and interneurons, the product of which is a 200 Hz oscillatory field potential (ripple) and phase-related discharge of the CA1 network. Although many CA1 pyramidal neurons discharge during the time (50-100 msec) of each sharp wave, each wave of a ripple (approximately 5 msec) reflects the synchronization of more discrete subsets of CA1 neurons. When we used multi-site recordings in freely behaving rats, we observed ripples throughout the longitudinal extent (approximately 4-5 mm) of the dorsal CA1 region that were coherent for multiple cycles of each ripple. High-frequency ripples were also observed throughout the hippocampal-entorhinal output pathway that were concurrent but less coherent on a cycle-by-cycle basis. Single and multiunit neuronal activity was phase-related to local ripples throughout the hippocampal-entorhinal output pathway. Entorhinal ripples occurred 5-30 msec after the CA1 ripples and were related to the occurrence of an entorhinal sharp wave. Thus, during each hippocampal sharp wave, there is powerful synchronization among the neuronal networks that connect the hippocampus to the neocortex. We suggest that this population interaction (1) biologically constrains theoretical models of hippocampal function and dysfunction and (2) has the capacity to support an &quot;off-line&quot; memory consolidation process.
The anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) is a nodal point in neural circuits regulating secretion of gonadotropin and contains sexually dimorphic populations of hormonally regulated dopamine-, dynorphin-, and enkephalin-containing neurons. Because the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), prodynorphin (PDYN), and proenkephalin (PENK) genes contain cAMP response elements that control their expression in their promoters, we used histochemical methods to determine whether ovarian steroids alter expression of the cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) in the AVPV. Because the ability of CREB to activate transcription depends on phosphorylation at Ser133, we also evaluated the effects of acute steroid treatment on levels of phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) in AVPV neurons by using an antibody that differentiates between CREB and pCREB. Treatment of ovariectomized rats with estradiol treatments caused a significant induction in the number of pCREB-immunoreactive nuclei within 30 min that was maintained for at least 4 hr, but did not alter CREB immunostaining in the AVPV. Pretreatment with the estrogen antagonist Nafoxidine blocked this induction. In contrast, acute administration of progesterone to estrogen-primed animals suppressed and then increased pCREB staining in the ASVPV at 30 and 60 min, respectively; no significant differences between experimental and control animals were apparent by 2 hr after progesterone treatment. Double-labeling experiments showed that pCREB was colocalized with PDYN, PENK, or TH mRNA in the AVPV, suggesting that pCREB may mediate the effect of steroid hormones on gene expression in these neurons.
The responsiveness of spinal cord nociceptive neurons to innocuous mechanical stimuli can be increased by the release of excitatory amino acids (EAAs) and peptides attributable to an injury-induced barrage of impulses. This sensitization of spinal dorsal horn neurons can also result from administration of phorbol ester by microdialysis, presumably by direct activation of protein kinase C (PKC). This study was designed to examine the effects of central sensitization of spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons produced by intradermal injection of capsaicin on the descending inhibition driven from the periaqueductal gray (PAG) and the possible role of PKC in this process in anesthetized monkeys. Sensitization of responses of STT cells to mechanical stimuli was induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin. PAG inhibition was significantly attenuated when sensitization of responses to mechanical stimuli occurred. However, perfusion of the spinal cord with NPC15437 (a selective PKC inhibitor) by microdialysis could prevent the sensitization of the responses to mechanical stimuli and the reduction in PAG inhibition of these responses induced by capsaicin injection. Results similar to those produced by capsaicin injection were observed when a PKC activator, phorbol ester (12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate), was infused within the dorsal horn by microdialysis. An inactive phorbol ester (4 alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate) had no effect. These results provide evidence that the activation of PKC contributes to the development of central sensitization in dorsal horn neurons produced by chemical stimulation with capsaicin. Attenuation of the effectiveness of PAG inhibition takes place when the sensitization of dorsal horn cells develops, and PKC may play a significant role in this process.
Sympathetic nerve terminals on blood vessels within the dorsal root ganglia sprout after sciatic nerve lesions in the rat. The mechanism underlying this phenomenon is not clear, but might be predicted to involve nerve growth factor or its homologs because these factors are known to trigger collateral sprouting of undamaged sympathetic noradrenergic terminals. We have found that sciatic nerve lesions lead to a decreased expression of neuronal p75, the low-affinity receptor for the neurotrophins, but an increased expression of glial p75 in ipsilateral dorsal root ganglia. Intriguingly, the increased expression of p75 was found primarily in association with glia surrounding large-diameter neurons, which are those associated with the noradrenergic sprouts. A smaller but significant glial response was also found in contralateral ganglia. The glial response in ipsilateral ganglia could be mimicked by ventral, but not dorsal, root transection. The dorsal root lesion-induced glial responses in contralateral ganglia were greater than those induced by ventral root or sciatic nerve lesions. Combined lesions of dorsal root and either ventral root or sciatic nerve did not prevent the glial responses of ipsilateral ganglia, suggesting that a peripheral signal is involved. Colocalization studies indicate that tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive nerve sprouts were associated with p75-immunoreactive glial cells. Thus, increased glial synthesis of p75 might provide an explanation for the abnormal growth of sympathetic fibers in dorsal root ganglia after peripheral nerve injury.
Dopamine (DA) is known to modulate the post-synaptic response of the excitatory amino acid (EAA) neurotransmitters in the striatum. Thus the intrinsic neurons in this nucleus are potential sites of cross-interaction between these two systems. The recent isolation of 5 different DA receptor subtypes and more than 20 EAA subunits argues for a complicated functional role for the protein products encoded by these transcripts. The simultaneous detection of cellular mRNA distributions and translated protein products was an initial step to determine differences in post-translational expression at the cellular level of resolution for two of these receptors. The cloned D2 DA receptor subtype and the ionotropic GluR1 EAA receptor subunit were examined by fluorescence in situ transcription (FIST) following hybridization of specific cDNA primers, complementary to the mRNA transcripts encoding these receptors. Nascent extension of the annealed primer using reverse transcriptase was detected after incorporation of fluorescently labeled dUTP. Protein products were visualized by standard immunofluorescence after incubation with anti-peptide antisera that were selective for each receptor protein. The experimental data corroborate previous work describing the regional expression of ligand binding and in situ hybridization detected with radiolabeled probes for the DA and EAA receptor systems in the striatum. The dual fluorescence method can be completed within 2 days and may be adapted to cellular localization of many novel mRNA/protein combinations to examine post-translational processing within thin tissue slices.
Although the classical Golgi method is a powerful means for structural analysis of the brain, it is generally considered to be an unpredictable technique making anatomists wary of using it. Often, even when successful staining has occurred, deposits of silver chromate crystals on the surface of the tissue obscure examination. This paper describes a simple procedure for Golgi impregnation of retina and brain slices so that good, even staining is obtained and crystal formation is avoided. The most outstanding feature of the method is the consistency of results. This consistency is due to two factors: (1) the accurate determination of the optimal chromation by measuring the rise of pH in the solutions and (2) the uniform penetration of dichromate and silver nitrate to the specimen by using a freely hanging, sandwiching technique. We suggest that the method described here can be applied to other parts of the nervous system and will be a reliable way to identify and better classify new cell types.
Drug self-administration studies have recently employed progressive ratio (PR) schedules to examine psychostimulant and opiate reinforcement. This review addresses the technical, statistical, and theoretical issues related to the use of the PR schedule in self-administration studies in rats. Session parameters adopted for use in our laboratory and the considerations relevant to them are described. The strengths and weaknesses of the PR schedule are also discussed.
Survival of cerebellar granule cells (CGC) in culture was significantly improved in the presence of cholera toxin B subunit (Ctx B), a ligand which binds to GM1 with specificity and high affinity. This trophic effect was linked to elevation of intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i), and was additive to that of high K+. Survival was optimized when Ctx B was present for several days during the early culture period. 45Ca2+ and cell survival studies indicated the mechanism to involve enhanced influx of Ca2+ through L-type voltage-sensitive channels, since the trophic effect was blocked by antagonists specific for that channel type. Inhibitors of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor/channels were without effect. During the early stage of culture Ctx B, together with 25 mM K+, caused [Ca2+]i to rise to 0.2-0.7 microM in a higher proportion of cells than 25 mM K+ alone. A significant change in the nature of GM1 modulation of Ca2+ flux occurred after 7 days in culture, at which time Ctx B ceased to elevate and instead reduced [Ca2+]i below the level attained with 25 mM K+. GM1 thus appears to serve as intrinsic inhibitor of one or more L-type Ca2+ channels during the first 7 days in vitro, and then as intrinsic activator of (possibly other) L-type channels after that period. This is the first demonstration of a modulatory role for GM1 ganglioside affecting Ca2+ homeostasis in cultured neurons of the CNS.
CP-122,721 [(+)-(2S,3S)-3-(2-methoxy-5-trifluoromethoxybenzyl)amino-2 -phenylpiperidine] interacts with high affinity (pIC50 = 9.8) at the human NK1 receptor expressed in IM-9 cells. In the presence of CP-122,721, there was a reduction in Bmax of [125I]BH-SP binding with no change in affinity suggesting that CP-122,721 does not interact with the NK1 receptor in competitive manner. In an in vitro functional assay. CP-122,721 blocked SP-induced excitation of locus ceruleus cells in guinea pig brain slices with a IC50 value of 7 nM. In vivo, CP-122,721 potently blocked plasma extravasation in guinea pig lung elicited by aerosolized capsaicin (1 mM) with an ID50 = 0.01 mg/kg, p.o. Orally administered CP-122,721 antagonized Sar9, Met (O2)11-SP-induced locomotor activity in guinea pigs with an ID50 = 0.2 mg/kg suggesting good entry into the central nervous system. In addition, consistent with insurmountable blockade observed in vitro, CP-122,721 (0.01, 0.03 0.3 mg/kg, p.o.) produced a rightward shift in the dose response curve for SP-induced hypotension in the awake dog that was accompanied by a decrease in the maximal response. Thus, in vitro and in vivo CP-122,721 appears to behave functionally as a non-competitive antagonist producing an insurmountable blockade of the actions of SP.
Our experiments assessed the modulation of striatal acetylcholine (ACh) output by dopamine (DA) receptor subtypes under physiological conditions using in vivo microdialysis in awake rats. The degree to which the dopaminergic modulation of striatal cholinergic neurons might vary as a function of local extracellular ACh level also was examined by application of varying concentrations of the acetylcholinesterase (AChE), inhibitor neostigmine (NEO) in the microdialysis perfusate. Under physiological conditions (O NEO), the amount of ACh in the dialysates was 25.1 +/- 2.2 fmol/20-microliters sample (n = 20) whereas values of 67.9 +/- 3.5 (n = 35) and 527.7 +/- 56.1 (n = 13) fmol/20-microliters sample were obtained when the applied NEO concentration was 10 and 100 nM, respectively. In the absence of NEO, a low dose of the indirect DA agonist amphetamine (AMPH; 2 mg/kg i.p.) failed to affect striatal ACh output; a higher AMPH dose (10 mg/kg i.p.) significantly decreased the amount of ACh in dialysates. Under physiological conditions, the direct D2-selective agonist quinpirole (3 mg/kg i.p.) decreased extracellular ACh in striatum to nondetectable levels and the direct D1-selective agonist SKF-38393 (10 mg/kg i.p.) produced a significant increase in this measure. Analysis of the changes in striatal ACh output produced by administration of these DA compounds in the absence vs. presence of local NEO revealed that 10 nM NEO did not qualitatively alter the pharmacological responsivity of this system as compared to the physiological condition. However, in the presence of 100 nM NEO, 2 mg/kg AMPH elicited a significant increase in striatal ACh output. At the 100 nM NEO concentration it also was observed that the amplitude of the quinpirole-induced inhibition of ACh efflux did not increase further in proportion to basal ACh levels whereas the amplitude of the increase in ACh output produced by SKF-38393 was linearly related to basal ACh levels across all NEO concentrations. Under conditions where cholinergic pharmacological responsivity was minimally affected (10 nM NEO), the D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.) increased striatal ACh output by 50% and the D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390 (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) decreased this variable by 41%. Under these conditions, the inhibitory action of quinpirole on ACh output could be reversed by subsequent administration of AMPH (5 mg/kg i.p.) and this effect of AMPH could then be blocked by administration of SCH-23390. Thus, under physiological or low NEO (10 nM) conditions a prevalent D2-mediated inhibition as well as an opposing D1-mediated excitation of striatal ACh output can be demonstrated. At a higher NEO concentration (100 nM), regulation of the striatal ACh system by DA receptor subtypes is differentially affected such that the D2-mediated inhibitory influence no longer predominates over the D1-mediated excitatory drive. Caution should be exercised when interpreting ACh efflux data obtained using microdialysis under conditions of AChE inhibition.
Climbing fibers, which originate in the inferior olive and project to Purkinje cells and Golgi cells in the cerebral cortex, were activated at low (0.4-Hz) and high (4-Hz) frequencies by periorbital stimulation in decerebrate ferrets. Climbing fiber responses were recorded as field potentials from the c3 zone of the cerebellar surface. When periorbital stimulation was applied at high frequency, the climbing fiber responses became strongly depressed within a few seconds. It has previously been shown that this high frequency depression (HFD) of climbing fiber responses is due to a cerebellar inhibition of the inferior olive, probably via the nucleo-olivary pathway. Acute administration of ethanol had small and variable effects on the amplitude of climbing fiber responses evoked by low-frequency stimulation. In contrast, medium concentrations (0.44-2.90 g/l) of ethanol led to a marked reduction of the HFD. Low ( &lt; 0.44 g/l) systemic concentrations had no measurable effects on the HFD, whereas high concentrations ( &gt; 2.90 g/l) caused either an increased HFD or a nonseptic reduction in olivary excitability. Because HFD has previously been shown to involve cerebello-olivary inhibition, the possibility of an interaction between ethanol and GABA-ergic responses in the interposito-olivary pathway is discussed.
The present study has examined the glycine/N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, L-701-324 [7-chloro-4-hydroxy-3-(3-phenoxy)-phenyl-2 (H)quinolone] in rodent behavioral tests commonly used to predict antipsychotic potential and side effect liability in humans. Pretreatment with L-701,324 dose-dependently antagonized amphetamine-induced hyperactivity in the mouse (ED50 = 1.12 +/- 0.45 mg/kg p.o.), an effect which was similar to that of the classical neuroleptic, haloperidol, and the atypical neuroleptic, clozapine. In addition, p.o. administration of L-701,324 (2.5 or 5 mg/kg) attenuated the hyperactivity response induced by amphetamine infusion into the rat nucleus accumbens. In contrast to haloperidol, however, stereotyped sniffing and licking/biting, induced by either the systemic administration of apomorphine or infusion of amphetamine into the striatum, was not altered in rats pretreated with L-701,324 (30 or 100 mg/kg p.o.). Furthermore, L-701,324 failed to impair spontaneous locomotor activity or induce catalepsy in the mouse at doses &gt; or = 100 mg/kg. Although a significant reduction in spontaneous activity was observed in rats pretreated with L-701,324, the minimum effective dose (10 mg/kg p.o.) was 2-fold greater than that which abolished amphetamine-induced hyperactivity in this species. Thus, L-701,324 selectively blocks behaviors associated with the activation of the mesolimbic dopamine system suggesting that glycine/N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists may offer a novel approach to the treatment of schizophrenia in humans.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) was infused continuously for 2 weeks into the ventricles of male Wistar rats that had received a unilateral knife transection of the fimbria/fornix. In vehicle-treated, control animals, there was a 70% loss of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-positive and a 60% loss of p75-positive neurons in the septum/diagonal band ipsilateral to the axotomy as identified by immunohistochemistry, with no loss in ChAT biochemical activity. GDNF treatment at 10 micrograms/day completely prevented the loss of p75-positive neurons, significantly reduced the loss of ChAT-positive neurons to 40% of normal, and stimulated ChAT biochemical activity to 40% more than normal in an axotomy-dependent manner. GDNF is 1 order of magnitude less potent than NGF but, unlike NGF, had little or no effect on normal, uninjured neurons. GDNF was 1 order of magnitude more potent than BDNF, and BDNF had no effect on ChAT biochemical activity. GDNF and NGF inhibited weight gain, whereas BDNF induced significant weight loss and death at the dosage of 100 micrograms/day.
1. We have examined the voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel activity of rat melanotrophs during the early postnatal period. The cells were dissociated from pituitary intermediate lobes, kept in culture for 5-24 h and then subjected to whole-cell patch-clamp experiments. 2. Like their adult counterparts, neonatal melanotrophs were able to generate Na+ currents, K+ currents and Ca2+ currents in response to membrane depolarization. Ca2+ currents were carried by both low- and high-threshold Ca2+ channels. 3. High-threshold Ca2+ current density decreased sharply between postnatal day 4 (P4) and P12. This period coincides with the onset of dopaminergic innervation within the intermediate lobe. Accordingly, the developmental decrease in Ca2+ current density was largely reversed by chronic in vivo treatment with sulpiride, a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist. 4. Prolonging the time in culture from 5 h to 8 days did not significantly alter the Ca2+ channel activity of P3 melanotrophs, whereas the high-threshold Ca2+ current in previously innervated (P14) melanotrophs stayed small for the first 24 h and then increased 3-fold during the subsequent 4-5 days. This increase required RNA and protein synthesis and was prevented by adding D2 agonists to the culture medium. 5. These results provide evidence for a postnatal suppression of high-threshold Ca2+ current expression in pituitary melanotrophs mediated by presynaptic dopamine neurons through D2 dopamine receptors.
In cultured human lymphocytes, oestrogen and progesterone at concentrations found in plasma during the normal menstrual cycle, significantly increase the incorporation of [35S] methionine into protein and, in addition, both hormones significantly alter the relative synthesis of certain proteins. At concentrations found in plasma during pregnancy, some changes are augmented while others are reversed. These specific sex-steroid-induced changes in protein synthesis provide possible peripheral biological markers of hormone action which may be tested for their association with predisposition to, and/or onset of, conditions such as postpartum psychiatric illness.
In order to elucidate methodological aspects of CSF investigations, 14 healthy male subjects were lumbar-punctured at the L4-5 level following a standardised procedure. CSF concentrations of precursors, transmitters and transmitter metabolites were used as dependent variables, while age, height, body weight, atmospheric pressure and some other factors served as independent variables. 5-HIAA and HVA (but not HMPG) have pronounced concentration gradients. We also found CSF gradients for the precursors tryptophan and tyrosine, as well as for serotonin, dopamine and the dopamine metabolite DOPAC. Dopamine and atmospheric pressure showed a positive intercorrelation. Age correlated curvilinearly (convex upward) with tryptophan but showed a negatively directed linear correlation with serotonin. Serotonin and 5-HIAA showed no intercorrelation. Our results suggest an age-dependent disposition of tryptophan in the CSF. The absence of a correlation between serotonin and 5-HIAA might be inconsistent with the notion that 5-HIAA is a marker of central serotonin turnover. The comparatively high body weight of our volunteers might explain the lack of a gradient for HMPG.
Our laboratory has pioneered the use of bovine serum albumin (BSA) linked to different positions of the ring structure of progesterone to investigate steroid-membrane interactions. The complex can be radioiodinated to demonstrate the existence of specific membrane progesterone binding sites in the rat brain. Not only are these progesterone complexes specific ligands, but they also elicit functional responses in the central nervous system (CNS), particularly in the corpus striatum (CS) where progesterone-BSA conjugates linked at C-3 and C-11 positions (P-3-BSA and P-11-BSA) alter amphetamine-evoked dopamine release. In this communication we will report our current studies that use radioiodinated progesterone-BSA conjugates (P-3-125I-BSA, P-6-125I-BSA, and P-11-125I-BSA) and estradiol-BSA conjugates linked at C-6 position (17 beta-E-6-125I-BSA and 17-E-6-BSA) to demonstrate the existence of specific membrane binding sites for progesterone and estrogen in several regions of the rat brain. In addition, initial studies to isolate and purify these membrane binding sites from digitonin-solubilized P2-membrane fractions by affinity chromatography are reported. The data indicate that these sites are part of a complex membrane receptor for either estrogen or progesterone, the so-called membrane estrogen receptor (mER) and the membrane progesterone receptor (mPR), respectively.
The homeobox gene orthodenticle (otd) specifies anterior head development in the Drosophila embryo, otd-related genes are also found in vertebrates, with expression patterns suggesting that they are important for the development of anterior regions of the head and brain. Here, we analyze the molecular mechanisms by which otd expression is activated within its normal domain in the head and repressed outside this region. We demonstrate that, contrary to early models of embryonic pattern formation, high levels of the bicoid morphogen are not required for otd activation or for the establishment of anterior head structures. We also show that the terminal system contributes to otd activation in the head primordium. Finally, we identify a novel pathway mediated by the gap gene huckebein through which three maternal systems cooperate to repress otd expression at the anterior terminus of the embryo.
Adrenocorticotropin is known for its key role in mediating neuroendocrine responses, especially in response to stress. Recently, it has been recognized to have direct immunomodulatory actions, most of which are suppressive. This is a widely conserved action which occurs in invertebrates and vertebrates. This conservation illustrates the fundamental nature of adrenocorticotropin's immunomodulatory action. Such a mechanism of action helps explain why the immunocytes themselves can serve as a source of adrenocorticotropin. Regulation of adrenocorticotropin production and action is complex and the result is an integration of multiple mechanisms. Serum adrenocorticotropin levels fluctuate in response to stimulatory and inhibitory factors. Further, peptidases can specifically process adrenocorticotropin into smaller active fragments, inactive peptides or into peptides with different activities. These proteolytic enzymes have a differential tissue and cellular distribution. Immune stimulating factors such as interleukin-1 can overcome adrenocorticotropin inhibition and secondarily, block adrenocorticotropin production through the release of corticosteroids. With an endogenous presence and complex regulation it has been difficult to characterize adrenocorticotropin's role in the immune system. Here, we propose that adrenocorticotropin is a tonis regulator of immune response, i.e. it tonally inhibits immunocytes which undergo disinhibition as the result of exposure to stimulatory signals, e.g. cytokines, neuropeptides, etc. Thus, adrenocorticotropin appears to set the threshold for immunoactivation by controlling the degree of immunoexcitability.
Circumstantial and experimental evidence has implicated the immune cytokine interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) as a key mediator in the pathological changes that are observed in many demyelinating disorders, including the most common human demyelinating disease, multiple sclerosis. To produce an animal model with which to study the effects of IFN-gamma on the CNS, we have generated transgenic mice in which the expression of IFN-gamma has been placed under the transcriptional control of the myelin basic protein (MBP) gene. Transgenic mice generated with this construct have a shaking/shivering phenotype that is similar to that observed in naturally occurring mouse models of hypomyelination (e.g., shiverer, jimpy, quaking), and these transgenic animals have dramatically less CNS myelin than control animals. Reactive gliosis and increased macrophage/microglial F4/80 immunostaining were also observed. Additionally, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and class II mRNA levels were increased in the CNS of MBP/IFN-gamma transgenic mice, and the increase in MHC class I mRNA expression was detected in both white and gray matter regions. Furthermore, cerebellar granule cell migration was abnormal in these animals. These results strongly support the hypothesis that IFN-gamma is a key effector molecule in immune-mediated demyelinating disorders and indicate that the presence of this cytokine in the CNS may also disrupt the developing nervous system.

CARIBRO was founded in response to the United Nations declaration that the 1990s be designated the Decade of the Brain. The Program of Action is: 1. Annual meetings; 2. Training courses of the Caribbean School of Neurosciences; 3. Network scientific programs; 4. Fellowship programs; and 5. Dissemination of information on neuroscience. In the same program, a CARIBRO Laboratory was created in one of the Medical Faculties of Havana with the aim to teach students from the Caribbean in neuroscience research. As part of this program, we have been working in lateralized motor functions. Preliminary results in rats show that reaching acquisition allows classification of the animals as right-handed (40%), left-handed (40%), and ambidextrous (20%). Electrolytic lesion of caudate nucleus or amygdala impairs lateralized response. Contralateral lesions increase reaching attempts. Ipsilateral lesions to the preferred forepaw do not affect the reaction. The results remain the same 10, 20, and 90 d after the interference. Pharmacological experiments showed that trihexiphenidil (0.1 mg/kg i.p.) induced handedness reversion in 50% if the animals, whereas haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.) produced immobility, tremor, and autonomic symptoms. This effect remained the same in young as well as in old animals. We are also working on mathematical modelation. In this sense, preliminary reports about a model for synaptic modification in the framework of the Fukushima hypothesis is discussed.
Neuronal cell death is both a vital component of the embryo-genesis of the nervous system and forms the basis of all neurodegenerative diseases. This overview explores the fundamental mechanisms underlying neuronal cell death at a cellular and molecular level. The significance of the mode of neuronal death is compared with respect to physiological (developmental) and pathological neuronal loss.
Immunocytochemical techniques were employed in order to examine the distribution and relative intensity of immunolabeling of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoaxolepropionate (AMPA) receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR2/3 within the hippocampal formation of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). Within sectors of the hippocampus that are particularly vulnerable to AD pathology (i.e., CA1, subiculum), we observed a variable loss of GluR1 and GluR2/3 immunolabeling correlating with the extent of cell loss and neurofibrillary pathology. In contrast, in less vulnerable sectors of the hippocampus (i.e., CA2/3, dentate gyrus), the intensity of immunolabeling was markedly increased in AD cases, particularly in the molecular and polymorphic layers of the dentate gyrus. Importantly, these latter regions correspond to termination zones of glutamatergic perforant pathway axons and mossy fiber collaterals, respectively. The increase in immunolabeling within these projection fields is hypothesized to occur in response to the deafferentation of selected glutamatergic pathways, and suggests a critical role for AMPA receptor subunits in hippocampal plasticity.

Chronic electrical subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation is under investigation for alleviating parkinsonian symptoms. STN alterations may carry the risk of provoking abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs). We took advantage of the reversibility of the stimulation technique to assess the possibility of inducing AIMs, using different electrical variables with or without concomitant levodopa intake. Above a given threshold voltage, stimulation could induce contralateral distal mobile AIMs or hemiballism in the off-drug condition in two patients. AIMs occurred after a latency that varied from a few minutes up to several hours after switching on the stimulator. Hemiballism immediately disappeared upon switching off the stimulator. In these patients, levodopa had never provoked that type of AIMs before surgery. Levodopa-induced AIMs were not modified by electrical stimulation, but off-phase dystonia disappeared in one patient. Stimulation of the STN induced AIMs that resembled both those observed following spontaneous lesions of the STN and levodopa-induced diphasic AIMs in parkinsonian patients. As electrical stimulation provoked AIMs and antiparkinsonian benefit occurred with different electrical variables and different timing, the mechanisms responsible for these two effects could be distinct.
The pathways of nociception, concerning dentogenic pain, are followed from the peripheral nociceptors to the cortex. The branches of the trigeminal nerve supply the semilunar ganglion. From this ganglion the trigeminal nuclei are reached, extending from the bottom of the third ventricle to the upper cervical segments. The thalamus and subsequently the cortex are receiving nociceptive information from trigeminal nuclei. Either ascendent or descendent pathways are involved concerning nociception.
How the firing rate of a neuron carries information depends on the time over which rates are measured. For very short times, the amount of information conveyed depends, in a universal way, on the mean rates only (trial-to-trial variability is irrelevant) and the cell response can be taken to be binary (although an ideal binary response would convey more). For longer times, noise as well as the graded nature of the response come into play, with opposite effects. Which times can be considered 'short' varies with the brain area considered and, possibly, with the processing speed it is required to operate at.


The present study was designed to examine the effect of age on cholinergic synaptic transmission in the three principal hippocampal subregions, and to assess whether these effects covary with age-related behavioral deficits. Young (3 week), adult (9 month), and old (24-27 month) rats were first tested on the Morris water task, and most of the old rats were severely impaired on the spatial version. The cholinergic slow epsp was induced by tetanic stimulation of stratum oriens or stratum granulosum, and recorded intracellularly in vitro from CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells and granule cells in the fascia dentata (FD). The amplitude of the slow epsp was significantly reduced in old rats in all areas (CA1 59%; CA3 55%; and FD 56%). This age-related decrease was also present following the blockade of glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission, ruling out possible artifactual contributions from these systems to the change in the slow epsp. Our data suggest that functional cholinergic transmission is compromised in all areas of the hippocampus during normal aging. Few statistically significant correlations, however, were found between the age-related deficit in spatial learning and the decrease in cholinergic synaptic function.
Patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and hippocampal disruption are severely impaired in eyeblink classical conditioning (EBCC) in the 400 ms delay paradigm. Hippocampectomized rabbits are not impaired in the delay paradigm but perform poorly in the trace paradigm. It was anticipated that probable AD patients would be severely impaired in the 750 ms trace paradigm. In Study 1, probable AD patients were significantly impaired in the trace EBCC paradigm, but the sensitivity of the test was poorer than for the delay paradigm. In Study 2, probable AD patients tested in trace were tested in the delay paradigm 4 months later. Sensitivity for AD was also better for the delay paradigm. Rabbits and humans show behavioral parallels in the 400 ms delay paradigm but not in the 750 ms trace paradigm. The 400 ms delay EBCC paradigm was superior to the 750 ms trace paradigm for the detection of AD.
Stathmin (p19), a 19-kDa cytosolic phosphorotein, plays a key role in converting extracellular signals into intracellular biochemical changes. Antibodies and cDNA specific for stathmin were used to study its levels and localization in normal and Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain tissue. The stathmin protein concentration was reduced in AD neocortex as assessed by Western blotting, whereas the concentration of its mRNA detected by both in situ hybridization and slot blot were increased in AD. The alteration of the stathmin protein concentration was negatively correlated with neurofibrillary tangle numbers but not with plaque numbers. Immunoreactivity was evenly localized to the cytoplasm of neurons in control cortical sections, whereas in AD it was preferentially localized to some of the neurofibrillary tangle-bearing neurons. Numbers of stathmin-positive neurons were inversely correlated with tangle numbers but not with plaque numbers in the frontal cortex of AD patients.
GTP cyclohydrolase I is the first and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin. A quantitative in situ hybridization technique was used to study the expression of GTP cyclohydrolase I mRNA in the rat brain at the cellular level. Coronal sections between the diencephalon and myelencephalon were exposed to a 35S-labelled antisense GTP cyclohydrolase I cRNA probe. Sections serial to these were hybridized with a 35S-labelled antisense cRNA probe complementary to tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA. Tyrosine hydroxylase and GTP cyclohydrolase I mRNAs were found to colocalize within catecholamine neurons located throughout the brain. The overall distribution of neurons expressing GTP cyclohydrolase I mRNA was observed to correspond exactly to the known distribution of the dopamine, norepinephrine/epinephrine and serotonin-containing cell groups. Overall, a 30-fold range of GTP cyclohydrolase I mRNA expression was observed, with the transcript being significantly more abundant in serotonin than in dopamine or norepinephrine/epinephrine neurons. Comparisons across serotonin cell groups indicated that neurons of the median raphe nucleus, caudal linear nucleus raphe (B8) and the dorsal raphe (B6/B7) expressed the highest levels of GTP cyclohydrolase I mRNA. Comparisons across dopamine cell groups indicated that the transcript was more abundant in neurons of the ventral tegmental area (A10) than in neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (A9) and that both A9 and A10 dopamine neurons exhibited higher levels of expression than the DA neurons of the hypothalamus (A11-A14). Norepinephrine neurons of the locus coeruleus (A6) and subcoeruleus (A6v) exhibited significantly higher levels of GTP cyclohydrolase I mRNA than did neurons in other norepinephrine (A1 and A2) or epinephrine (C1 and C2) cell groups. GTP cyclohydrolase I mRNA could not be detected unequivocally in neurons known to contain nitric oxide synthase. Heterogeneity in the level of expression of GTP cyclohydrolase I mRNA by monoamine-containing neurons may play an important role in determining steady state levels of tetrahydrobiopterin and, ultimately, the regulation of monoamine biosynthesis.
Examination of HP 184, [N-n-propyl)-N-(3-fluoro-4-pyridinyl) -1H-3-methylindodel-1-amine hydrochloride], in a variety of tests for serotonergic activity revealed some unique properties of this compound. We report here that 100 microM HP 184 enhanced spontaneous release of [3H]serotonin (5-HT) from rat hippocampal slices. This release was independent of the uptake carrier. In vivo assays confirmed that HP 184 (20 mg/kg, i.p.) lacked significant interactions at the norepinephrine (NE) or 5-HT uptake carrier itself. Notably, HP 184 (15 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced drinking behavior in schedule-induced polydipsic (SIP) rats. We previously reported that some selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors decrease SIP 30-40% after a 14-21 day treatment. In the current study, HP 184 decreased SIP beginning with the first treatment, and this reduction (30%) was maintained for 28 days. We further investigated HP 184 and serotonin metabolite levels. One hour after i.p. administration of 30 mg/kg HP 184, the ratio of whole brain 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA) to 5-HT was increased, suggesting serotonergic activation. Under these conditions, the brain:plasma ratio of HP 184 was approximately 2:1, with brain concentrations of 1.6 micrograms/gram. We speculate that the spontaneous release effects of HP 184 may be responsible for the behavioral effects observed.
The inhibitory effects of pituitary allografts on the prolactin (PRL)-secretory system are presumed to be consequences of the unabated release of PRL by the allografts. In the present studies we used pituitary allografts in the Golden Syrian hamster to address the following questions: (a) Do allografts of adult adenohypophysial tissue which elevate serum PRL levels decrease the concentration of PRL mRNA in the host's adenohypophysis? (b) Is this effect shared by allografts of neonatal hypophysial tissue or neonatal muscle tissue which do not elevate serum PRL levels? (c) Do any of these types of allograft alter growth hormone mRNA in the host's adenohypophysis? Prolactin mRNA concentration, but not growth hormone mRNA concentration, was decreased in the adenohypophyses in situ in the hosts bearing adult adenohypophysial allografts in which serum PRL levels were elevated. In contrast, serum PRL in hosts with neonatal hypophysial or muscle allografts were not elevated and PRL mRNA levels in the adenohypophysis in situ were not decreased when compared to the levels measured in hamsters with sham transplants. Prolactin mRNA levels in hosts with neonatal muscle allografts were not different from levels in hosts with neonatal hypophysial allografts but were increased when compared to the levels measured in hamsters with sham transplants. There were no differences in PRL concentration in the adenohypophyses in situ between any of the groups. Also, PRL concentrations in neonatal hypophysial allografts were similar to those in adult adenohypophysial allografts. To our knowledge these observations are the first demonstrating that short-loop feed-back of PRL includes a decrease in PRL mRNA concentration. The observations also support the working hypothesis that PRL and not another pituitary factor exerts the negative feedback.
A variety of clinical and experimental findings suggest that parkinsonian resting tremor results from the involuntary activation of a central mechanism normally used for the production of rapid voluntary alternating movements. However, such central motor loop oscillations have never been directly demonstrated in parkinsonian patients. Using magnetoencephalography, we recorded synchronized and tremor-related neuromagnetic activity over wide areas of the frontal and parietal cortex. The spatial and temporal organization of this activity was studied in seven patients suffering from early-stage idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Single equivalent current dipole (ECD) analysis and fully three-dimensional distributed source solutions (magnetic field tomography, MFT) were used in this analysis. ECD and MFT solutions were superimposed on high-resolution MRI. The findings indicate that 3 to 6 Hz tremor in PD is accompanied by rhythmic subsequent electrical activation at the diencephalic level and in lateral premotor, somatomotor, and somatosensory cortex. Tremor-evoked magnetic activity can be attributed to source generators that were previously described for voluntary movements. The interference of such slow central motor loop oscillations with voluntary motor activity may therefore constitute a pathophysiologic link between tremor and bradykinesia in PD.
Knowledge stored in the human prefrontal cortex may exert control over more primitive behavioral reactions to environmental provocation. Therefore, following frontal lobe lesions, patients are more likely to use physical intimidation or verbal threats in potential or actual confrontational situations. To test this hypothesis, we examined the relationship between frontal lobe lesions and the presence of aggressive and violent behavior. Fifty-seven normal controls and 279 veterans, matched for age, education, and time in Vietnam, who had suffered penetrating head injuries during their service in Vietnam, were studied. Family observations and self-reports were collected using scales and questionnaires that assessed a range of aggressive and violent attitudes and behavior. Two Aggression/Violence Scale scores, based on observer ratings, were constructed. The results indicated that patients with frontal ventromedial lesions consistently demonstrated Aggression/Violence Scale scores significantly higher than controls and patients with lesions in other brain areas. Higher Aggression/Violence Scale scores were generally associated with verbal confrontations rather than physical assaults, which were less frequently reported. The presence of aggressive and violent behaviors was not associated with the total size of the lesion nor whether the patient had seizures, but was associated with a disruption of family activities. These findings support the hypothesis that ventromedial frontal lobe lesions increase the risk of aggressive and violent behavior.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is an autosomal dominant multisystem disorder associated with expansion of the CTG repeat within the 3' non-coding region of the myotonin protein kinase (MT-PK) gene. CTG repeat length has been shown to correlate with the clinical category and age at onset of the disease. The relationship between CTG repeat length and immunological parameters were analyzed in this study. We determined CTG repeat length in 14 DM patients and 15 normal controls using Southern and PCR analyses, and then correlated their CTG repeat lengths with their serum immunoglobulin (IgG, IgA, IgM) levels and the number of peripheral white blood cells, including lymphocyte subsets. In DM patients, increasing CTG repeat lengths correlated significantly with decreasing serum IgG levels, decreasing total lymphocyte counts, and decreasing CD2+, CD3+, and CD4+ cell counts. Immunological parameters were also influenced by the expansion of CTG repeat in DM patients.
Nerve-induced clustering of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) requires rapsyn, a synaptic peripheral membrane protein, as well as protein-tyrosine kinase activity. Here, we show that rapsyn induces the clustering of the synapse-specific receptor-tyrosine kinase MuSK in transfected QT-6 fibroblasts. Furthermore, rapsyn stimulates the autophosphorylation of MuSK, leading to a subsequent MuSK-dependent increase in cellular tyrosine phosphorylation. Moreover, rapsyn-activated MuSK specifically phosphorylated the AChR beta subunit, the same subunit that is tyrosine phosphorylated during innervation or agrin treatment of muscle. These results suggest rapsyn may mediate the synaptic localization of MuSK in muscle and that MuSK may play an important role in the agrin-induced clustering of the AChR.


Modern drug discovery demands accurate knowledge of the drug properties of affinity and efficacy at specific receptor proteins. Furthermore, drugs with well defined properties make better tools with which to explore and understand receptor regulation. The use of clonal cell lines stably expressing a given recombinant receptor may provide a highly useful model in which drug effects may be studied on one receptor subtype at a time. The present report was designed to evaluate the utility of a general method in which a clonal cell line stably expressing a recombinant D1A dopamine receptor was used as a model system for studying drug actions by null models. The null model for receptor occlusion (to calculate agonist Ka) and the null model for relative efficacy (to calculate test agonist affinity and epsilon r) were evaluated in these studies. To initiate these studies, rat C6 glioma cells that do not normally express DA receptors have been modified by stable transfection with the primate D1A DA receptor [Machida et al., 1992 (Molec. Pharmacol. 41: 652-659)] to a density of approximately equal to fmol/mg protein. The recombinant receptors show robust stimulation of cAMP in the stably transfected C6 cells. Calculation of agonist Ka from dose-response data requires that a portion of the cell's receptors be occluded in the absence of changes in post-receptor events leading to the response. Receptor reserve is typically reduced by alkylation, thereby lowering maximal response. Unfortunately, most of the currently available alkylating agents are not selective either for a particular receptor or for receptors vs other proteins within a signaling pathway. Short-term agonist treatment offers a possible complement to the use of non-selective or poorly characterized alkylating drugs for reducing maximum response in appropriate cell systems. The null method of receptor occlusion was used to determine the Ka for dopamine when maximum response was decreased by alkylation vs short-term agonist treatment. Direct non-linear curve fitting was used to analyze the data. In addition to DA, two other compounds were used to reduce receptor reserve to validate the method: fenoldopam (relatively high efficacy) and SKF38393 (low efficacy). Analyses indicated that the affinity of DA was similar whether calculated by alkylation (1.1 +/- 0.58 microM), 75 min DA treatment (0.57 +/- 0.16 microM) or 45 min treatment with DA (0.86 +/- 0.11 microM). Short-term agonist treatment experiments using multiple concentrations of DA, fenoldopam, or SKF38393 to decrease receptor reserve provided additional support for the validity of the Ka determinations using this procedure. Other experiments were conducted according to the null model for relative efficacy in which the affinity for DA is calculated by comparing the DA response before and after receptor occlusion, and the affinity and relative intrinsic efficacy of the test agonist are determined as a function of its actions relative to DA. We used the following four test drugs: + Br-APB, a novel agent with potential dopamine agonist properties, and three high-affinity DA agonists, fenoldopam, R-(-)-apomorphine (APO), and SKF38393. Intrinsic efficacy values relative to that of DA (1.0) were as follows: fenoldopam, 0.46 +/- 0.11; APO, 0.19 +/- 0.13; SKF38393, 0.07 +/- 0.01; and +Br-APB, 0.26 +/- 0.40. The agonist affinities (Ka) were: fenoldopam, 0.018 +/- 0.008 microM; APO, 0.80 +/- 0.18 microM; SKF38393, 0.16 +/- 0.04 microM; BR-APB, 0.43 +/- 0.29 microM; and DA, 0.58 +/- 0.17 microM. EC50/Ka ratios were consistent with relative intrinsic efficacies and Ka values were similar to KL values reported for membrane binding studies. Finally, Monte Carlo simulations were conducted to determine the precision of the parameter estimates...
Contrast-enhanced MRI is effective for assessing disease activity in multiple sclerosis (MS) and may provide an outcome measure for testing the efficacy of treatment in clinical trials. To compare the sensitivity of high-dose gadolinium-HP-DO3A with that of a standard dose of gadolinium-DTPA, we studied 16 patients with relapsing-remitting MS in the acute phase of the disease. Each underwent two MRI examinations within at most 48 h. The initial MRI study was with a standard dose of gadolinium-DTPA (0.1 mmol/kg), and the second one an experimental dose of gadolinium-HP-DO3A (0.3 mmol/kg). No adverse effects were attributed to the contrast media. The high-dose study revealed more enhancing lesions than the standard-dose study (56 vs 38). This difference was found to be more relevant for infratentorial and small lesions. Furthermore, with the higher dose, there was a marked qualitative improvement in the visibility and delineation of the lesions.
Ampullary electroreceptor organs of the catfish were apically exposed to 0.3 mM vincristine in order to investigate the part played by the microtubular system in stimulus transduction. The main effects were repetitive firing of the afferent fibre, a reduction of the mean spontaneous activity and a reduction of the spike amplitude two to four days after exposure to vincristine. The mean sensitivity was less susceptible to vincristine than the spontaneous activity. Since the shape of the frequency curves remained unchanged and similar effects as described above were also observed after denervation, we conclude that vincristine most likely does not affect electroreceptor cell functioning, but causes degeneration of the afferent fibre.
Human terminal-vomeronasal neural crest cells began to express a 34,000 molecular weight epithelial membrane glycoprotein, which was detected by the mouse monoclonal antibody Ber-EP4 soon after their migration into the olfactory plate. Expression of this antigen continued in neurons arising from these cells, which were olfactory sensory neurons and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-producing neurons migrating into the brains of the embryos of approximately 44-52 postovulatory days. Ber-EP4 immunoreactivity appeared over the entire surface membranes of these neurons, including their processes, not only in their extracerebral portions, but also within the brain parenchyma from 48 to 53 postovulatory days. Ber-EP4 immunoreactivity of these migrating neurons became weaker as they matured into luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-producing neurons and disappeared from the postnatal hypothalamic neurons; however, it remained in the primary sensory nerve fibers throughout postnatal life. Except for the neurons arising from the olfactory plate, no other human neurons express this epithelial antigen during the course of development. The mechanism and significance of the expression of this antigen in mature sensory neurons remains unclear, but the intramucosal location and morphological kinship of these neurons to epithelial cells may be related to this phenomenon. The results of the present study indicate that neurons arising from the olfactory plate are distinct from other neurons by having a 34,000 molecular weight epithelial membrane glycoprotein that can be detected by the mouse monoclonal antibody, Ber-EP4, during the embryonic stage. This antigen disappears from the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-producing neurons concomitant with maturation, but is preserved in the olfactory primary sensory nerve throughout postnatal life.
Cyclic GMP-inhibited phosphodiesterases are characterized by sensitivity of cAMP hydrolysis to inhibition by cGMP. This phosphodiesterase family contains at least two different isoforms (PDE3A and PDE3B) encoded by distinct genes and serving tissue-specific roles in regulation of lipolysis, glycogenolysis, myocardial contractility, and smooth muscle relaxation. Our previous work indicated an abundance of these two phosphodiesterase messenger RNAs in the embryonic rat brain, and therefore, to elucidate the potential functions of these enzymes in brain development as well as in mature brain function, the present study mapped cellular patterns of gene expression for these two enzymes from embryonic day 15 to adulthood using in situ hybridization histochemistry. Phosphodiesterase 3B isoform messenger RNA is uniformly expressed in germinal neuroepithelium and mature neurons, with distribution generally reflecting cell density. Phosphodiesterase isoform 3A messenger RNA, in contrast, demonstrates striking spatiotemporal specificity of expression, with three distinct patterns being evident. Firstly, this mRNA is highly abundant in both primary and secondary neuroepithelial germinal zones. Secondly, during early postnatal development PDE3A mRNA is transiently but highly expressed in neurons localized in basal forebrain, deep cerebellar, pontine, interpeduncular and a variety of thalamic, midbrain and brainstem nuclei. Thirdly, PDE3A mRNA is focally expressed in isolated large striatal and hippocampal neurons from the perinatal period without attenuation into adulthood. In summary, two cGMP-inhibited phosphodiesterase isoforms show distinctive patterns of gene expression in brain: PDE3B gene expression is uniform without evidence of system specificity or developmental stage specificity, suggesting that this isoform has a constitutive role in neuroepithelial metabolism, while PDE3B gene expression demonstrates a high level of spatiotemporal heterogeneity, suggesting that this isoform subserves a variety of developmental stage-specific and system-specific functions.
Evidence suggests that serotonin and neuropeptide Y neurons in the hypothalamus, which respectively inhibit and stimulate food intake, may interact to control energy homoeostasis. We therefore investigated the effects of fluoxetine, which inhibits serotonin reuptake, on food intake and the activity of the neuropeptide Yergic arcuato-paraventricular projection in lean Wistar and Zucker rats. We also studied its effects in obese Zucker rats, in which obesity is postulated to be due to overactivity of the arcuato-paraventricular projection. Fluoxetine significantly reduced food intake in lean and obese rats, both during continuous subcutaneous infusion and (10 mg/kg/day for seven days) and acutely after a single injection (10 mg/kg). Fluoxetine also significantly reduced neuropeptide Y levels in the paraventricular nucleus, a major site of neuropeptide Y release which is highly sensitive to the appetite-stimulating actions of neuropeptide Y. Push-pull sampling in lean and fatty Zucker rats showed that neuropeptide Y secretion in the paraventricular nucleus was significantly reduced after acute fluoxetine treatment. Furthermore, seven days fluoxetine treatment prevented the significant increases in hypothalamic neuropeptide Y messenger RNA which were induced in lean rats by food restriction which precisely matched the hypophagia induced by the drug. We conclude that fluoxetine inhibits various aspects of the activity of the neuropeptide Yergic arcuato-paraventricular neurons, and suggest that reduced neuropeptide Y release in the paraventricular nucleus may mediate, at least in part, the drug's hypophagic action. We further suggest that serotonin may influence food intake and energy balance by inhibiting the arcuato-paraventricular projection, and that the two neurotransmitters may act together to regulate feeding and energy homoeostasis.
The family of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors contains numerous subtypes. Since the subunit compositions of most native neuronal nicotinic receptors are unknown, an important method for distinguishing subtypes of functional neuronal receptors is based on pharmacological criteria, such as affinity for snake toxins. We have now examined the affinities of native chick nicotinic receptors for methyllycaconitine, a toxin purified from Delphinium. We find that methyllycaconitine is a potent antagonist at central nicotinic receptors located on Edinger-Westphal neurons, producing nearly complete functional blockade of nicotinic responses at 10 nM. In marked contrast, methyllycaconitine is 1000-fold less potent at blocking nicotinic responses in the lateral spiriform nucleus. Methyllycaconitine inhibits kappa-bungarotoxin-sensitive nicotinic receptors in ciliary ganglia at 0.5-1.0 microM. Radioligand binding studies also reveal heterogeneity in the affinity of the toxin for nicotinic receptors. Methyllycaconitine binds most avidly to [125I] alpha-bungarotoxin sites in brain (Ki = 5.4 nM), and is 200-fold less potent at muscle nicotinic receptors (IC50 = 1.1 microM). The least potent binding of the toxin is to [3H]nicotine sites in brain (Ki = 3.7 microM). Methyllycaconitine is thus a useful pharmacological tool for distinguishing certain subtypes of native nicotinic receptors. The relatively low affinity of the toxin for nicotinic receptors in the lateral spiriform nucleus is consistent with the known properties of these receptors, which include a high affinity for [3H]nicotine and a lack of sensitivity to alpha- and kappa-bungarotoxin. On the basis of high affinity for methyllycaconitine and insensitivity to alpha-bungarotoxin, the nicotinic receptors in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus are unlike any previously described nicotinic receptor subtype.
Expression of the immediate early gene c-fos is considered to be a marker for neuronal activation in the spinal cord in response to afferent input. Since the stomach is continually exposed to injurious chemicals, the present study examined whether application of acid (0.15 M HCl) and formalin (5%) to the gastric mucosa or serosal surface of the stomach stimulates c-fos transcription in the caudal thoracic spinal cord of anaesthetized rats. The spinal cord was removed 15, 45 or 120 min after exposure of the stomach to the noxious chemicals and processed for quantitative in situ hybridization autoradiography of c-fos messenger RNA. Exposure of the gastric mucosa to acid or formalin failed to increase the expression of c-fos messenger RNA in the thoracic spinal cord. Application of acid to the serosal surface of the stomach was also unable to stimulate c-fos transcription, whereas serosal application of formalin led to substantial expression of c-fos messenger RNA in the superficial but also deeper laminae of the spinal dorsal horn when examined 45 min, but not 15 or 120 min, post-stimulation. The highest expression of c-fos messenger RNA was seen when formalin was injected subcutaneously into one hindpaw and c-fos transcription was examined in the lumbar spinal cord. These data indicate that acute exposure of the gastric mucosa to chemical injury does not provide the afferent input which is necessary to cause appreciable c-fos transcription in second order neurons within the spinal cord. Stimulation of the gastric mucosa by acid and formalin was followed, however, by gastric hyperaemia in which spinal afferents releasing vasodilator peptides have been implicated. It is concluded, therefore, that acute stimulation of nociceptive afferents in the stomach causes local homoeostatic reactions but does not necessarily provide afferent input sufficient to recruit spinal nociceptive circuits.
The development of chronically painful states following peripheral nerve injury may involve different mechanisms depending on the nature and extent of the nerve lesion. The altered spinal neurochemistry of two substances, the excitatory amino acid glutamate operating via the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and the endogenous opioid peptide dynorphin, have been implicated in behavioral sequelae that follow partial peripheral nerve injury. In addition, dynorphin has nonopioid functions which may involve the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. We investigated two hypotheses: that the development of mechanical allodynia following complete nerve injury is not greatly influenced by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, and that spinal dynorphin and glutamate expression is interdependent. These studies employed sciatic cryoneurolysis, a complete but transient peripheral nerve injury that results in a delayed mechanical allodynia beginning 21-28 days after injury. Rats were administered dizocipline maleate (MK-801) at 0.25 mg/kg twice per day intraperitoneally from days 0-7 or from days 0-21 post-lesion to pre-emptively block the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. In a separate group of rats, an antibody to dynorphin was administered intraperitoneally at 16.6 mg/kg twice per day from days 14 to 21 post-lesion. For all groups, the outcome of allodynia behavior was assessed using von Frey filaments at 42 days post-lesion and the resulting dynorphin and glutamate immunoreactivity in the substantia gelatinosa was measured using proportional area stained and relative optical density, respectively. Only the 0-7 day MK-801 treatment increased the resulting mechanical thresholds significantly (mean +/- S.E.M. 7.0 +/- 1.2 g) when compared to saline-injected animals (3.9 +/- 0.6 g). However, this effect did not prevent allodynia since baseline thresholds were 12 or 15 g for each group. With regard to resulting spinal immunoreactivity, anti-dynorphin antibody treatment significantly increased glutamate immunoreactivity when compared to saline-treated animals (mean relative optical density +/- S.E.M. = 807.2 +/- 3.6 versus 779.6 +/- 8.3, respectively; P = 0.01) at 42 days post-lesion. We conclude that the development of allodynia following sciatic cryoneurolysis peripheral nerve injury involved a minimal contribution from N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activity. In addition, this study demonstrated that decreasing available dynorphin using antiserum had a significant and lasting effect on spinal glutamate expression without altering the outcome of allodynia. These conclusions suggest that etiological mechanisms leading to pain behaviors are not equal for all nerve injuries, and that altering kappa opioid levels can affect glutaminergic pathways at a substantially later time.
The present study compared the peripheral and systemic antinociceptive effect of morphine on formalin-induced facial pain behavior in the rat. Formalin (5%, 50 microliters) was injected subcutaneously into the vibrissal pad of adult rats (250-300 g). Morphine sulfate at doses of 100-1000 micrograms was subcutaneously injected locally (same area) or systemically (in the neck), 30 min before, or simultaneously with, formalin. The typical biphasic face grooming response, consisting of an early phasic phase (0-6 min) and a delayed tonic phase (12-42 min), displayed by control animals, was suppressed by both local and systemic administration of morphine; this effect was dose dependent. However, the suppression of the early phase with local morphine administration 30 min before formalin could be significantly greater (49-52%) than with systemic administration, depending on the dose used. Administration of local morphine simultaneously with formalin produced up to 34% reduction in the early and an additional 32% reduction of the late phases of face grooming, compared to systemic injections. Local injection of naloxone (10 micrograms) almost completely reversed the antinociceptive effect of 1000 micrograms of morphine (early phase 85 +/- 7%, late phase 100 +/- 26% reduction), whereas the same dose of naloxone applied systemically (i.p.) produced only partial reversal (early phase 29 +/- 16%, late phase 36 +/- 1% reduction). This study further indicates that locally administered morphine can exert an analgesic effect superior to systemic administration in the case of inflammatory and non-inflammatory pain through a peripheral site of action. These results support the clinical use of peripheral opioid administration in the treatment of human painful conditions.
Insulin-like growth factor messenger RNAs are expressed in adult rat brain. However, little is known about the effects of aging on the expression of the insulin-like growth factors, their receptors, and their binding proteins in different regions of rat brain. The goal of the current study was to assess whether there is altered expression of the insulin-like growth factor system during normal aging in the hippocampal formation, a region particularly vulnerable to the aging process. A spatial learning task in the Morris water maze was used to assess the cognitive status of young (7-8-month-old) and aged (28-29-month-old) male Long-Evans rats. Sites of expression and abundance of insulin-like growth factor-I, type 1 insulin-like growth factor receptor, and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-4 messenger RNAs were then examined by in situ hybridization histochemistry and solution or northern blot hybridization assays. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed no qualitative differences in the regional distribution of insulin-like growth factor-I, type 1 receptor, and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-4 messenger RNAs within the hippocampal formation of young and aged rats. However, quantitative analysis of messenger RNA abundance in hippocampal tissue homogenates showed a significant age-related increase in type 1 receptor messenger RNA (n = 25; t = -2.5; P &lt; 0.02). Furthermore, linear regression analysis indicated that type 1 receptor messenger RNA abundance was significantly correlated with spatial learning impairment in the water maze (r = 0.44; P &lt; 0.03) such that greater behavioral impairment was associated with higher type 1 receptor messenger RNA levels in the hippocampal formation. Neither insulin-like growth factor-I nor insulin-like growth factor binding protein-4 messenger RNA abundance was related to age or behavior. However, linear regression revealed a negative correlation between insulin-like growth factor-I messenger RNA abundance and type 1 receptor messenger RNA abundance in aged hippocampus (r = -0.72, P &lt; 0.01). These data indicate that increased hippocampal expression of type 1 receptor messenger RNA is associated with aging and cognitive decline. The correlation between type 1 receptor and insulin-like growth factor-I messenger RNA abundance in the hippocampal formation of aged rats suggests that insulin-like growth factor availability may influence type 1 receptor expression. However, because no overall age difference was found in the amount of insulin-like growth factor-I messenger RNA in the hippocampal formation, decreased insulin-like growth factor from other sources such as the cerebrospinal fluid and the peripheral circulation may be involved in up-regulating type 1 receptor messenger RNA. Alternatively, type 1 receptor messenger RNA regulation may be part of a trophic response to the degenerative and regenerative events that occur within the hippocampal formation during aging.
The anatomical organization of the cat nigrostriatal projections to the caudate nucleus was studied by retrograde tracer techniques. Horseradish peroxidase conjugated with wheat germ agglutinin and fluorescent retrograde tracers such as Fast Blue and Diamidino Yellow were injected concomitantly in different regions of the caudate nucleus. The distribution of single and double retrogradely labeled neurons was analysed in the substantia nigra pars compacta, substantia nigra pars lateralis, retrorubral area and adjacent ventral tegmental area. Adjacent sections processed for acetylcholinesterase were used as histochemical markers for the densocellular zone of the substantia nigra. The main findings of this study are: (1) The rostral caudate nucleus receives projections mainly from the caudal substantia nigra while the caudal caudate nucleus receives projections from all rostrocaudal levels of the substantia nigra. (2) The substantia nigra pars lateralis projects very specifically to the caudal caudate nucleus. (3) The ventral retrorubral area close to the medial lemniscus projects to all rostrocaudal levels of the caudate nucleus. (4) The rostral caudate nucleus receives projections mainly from the medial substantia nigra while more caudal sectors of the caudate nucleus receive projections from the medial and lateral substantia nigra. (5) A dorsoventral inversion of nigrostriatal projections from the medial substantia nigra pars compacta and the adjacent ventral tegmental area to the caudate nucleus was established. In contrast, we found zones within the retrorubral area projecting both to the dorsal and ventral caudate nucleus. (6) Distant injections of two different fluorescent tracers regarding both the dorsoventral and the rostrocaudal coordinates, yielded double-labeled neurons that were mainly located in the medial and caudal portions of the substantia nigra and in the ventral retrorubral area. However, the number of double-labeled neurons was higher after separated injections in the dorsoventral axis, suggesting that the collateralization to the caudate nucleus occurs mainly in the dorsoventral plane. (7) A clustering organization of nigrostriatal cells projecting to the caudate nucleus was detected mainly in the intermediate rostrocaudal part of the substantia nigra pars compacta and in the retrorubral area. The results of this comprehensive study on the cat nigrostriatal pathway to the caudate nucleus show novel findings on the anatomical organization of the nigrostriatal projections which might help the understanding of the complex architecture of nigral neurons projecting to the caudate nucleus in carnivores.
The mechanism of the behavioral improvement observed in parkinsonian primates that receive intrastriatal transplants of fetal dopamine neurons has not been firmly established. Dopamine production by grafted neurons may be the basis of the behavioral recovery. Alternatively, stimulation of the host dopamine system by the transplant procedure itself may be central to the outcome. The present study examined whether dopamine concentration was raised in the caudate nucleus of the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated primate following grafting, and if so, whether the elevation was dependent on either (i) the introduction of the implantation cannula (sham), (ii) the brain region that was grafted, or (iii) the gestational age of fetal tissue that was grafted. Transplantation of early gestational age fetal ventral mesencephalon (embryonic days 40-50) was associated with significant elevation of caudate nucleus dopamine concentration to a mean of approximately 20% of control values in the vicinity (within 2 mm) of the graft, compared with more distant sites in the caudate nucleus. With early gestational age fetal ventral mesencephalon, the ratio of homovanillic acid/dopamine concentration near the graft site was normalized compared to the elevated value found in the caudate nucleus distant from the graft site. Grafts of later stage fetal ventral mesencephalon, or fetal cerebellum, or sham implantation did not increase dopamine concentration or lower homovanillic acid/dopamine ratio near the graft site. Biochemical and histochemical evidence suggests that host dopamine neurons terminating in the nucleus accumbens are not the source of the changes. Numerous tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons at the graft site were only observed in the MPTP-treated monkeys that received grafts of early gestational age fetal ventral mesencephalon. These data lend strong support to the hypothesis that dopamine derived from grafted dopamine neurons is the major basis for behavioral recovery observed following intrastriatal transplantation in our MPTP-treated monkeys.
A novel in vitro system which allows extensive culturing of multipotential stem cells from mouse brain has made it possible to test whether enzymes that metabolize androgens and progestagens are present in undifferentiated central nervous system progenitor cells. Embryonic day 14 striatal cells were grown in the presence of either 20 ng/ml of epidermal growth factor (which prevents cell differentiation), or 2% fetal bovine serum (facilitating differentiation). Differentiation was complete by 35 days in vitro when the cell population comprised 86 +/- 2.0% astrocytes, 6 +/- 0.7% neurons 1.6 +/- 0.5% oligodendrocytes and 6.4 +/- 0.5% undifferentiated cells. No changes in the proportions of cell type were observed thereafter (38 and 45 days in vitro). 5 alpha-Reductive conversion (by 5 alpha-reductase) of testosterone and progesterone into dihydrotestosterone and dihydroprogesterone, and subsequent 3-alpha hydroxylation (by 3 alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase) to 3 alpha-diol and tetrahydroprogesterone were assayed in the cultures at 35, 38 and 45 days in vitro. Undifferentiated epidermal growth factor-treated cells (controls) formed about 10 times more dihydroprogesterone than dihydrotestosterone. Conversions of dihydrotestosterone and dihydroprogesterone, respectively, into 3 alpha-diol and tetrahydroprogesterone were very similar. In the fetal bovine serum-treated differentiating cells, 5 alpha-reductase converting progesterone increased at 38 days in vitro, and remained similarly elevated at 42 days in vitro (4 times). However, the conversion of testosterone into dihydrotestosterone remained at control levels up to 42 days in vitro when an increase was observed. 3 alpha-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity converting dihydroprogesterone but not dihydrotestosterone was increased at 38 and 42 days in vitro. These results show that undifferentiated central nervous system cells possess androgen and progestagen metabolizing enzymes which are strongly influenced by the cellular differentiation/maturation process.
Neurons containing a calcium-binding protein parvalbumin in the external plexiform layer of the rat olfactory bulb were identified light microscopically with the pre-embedding immunocytochemistry and were subsequently analysed with the electron microscopic serial-sectioning and three-dimensional reconstructions. In the present study we chose several different types of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons identified light microscopically as Van Gehuchten cell type, superficial short-axon cell type and multipolar cell type. Parvalbumin-immunoreactive somata were similar to one another in their ultrastructural characteristics, showing nuclear indentations, moderately developed Golgi apparatus and abundant mitochondria; these structural features appeared to resemble those of the short axon cells around the glomeruli and in the granule cell layer reported in previous electron microscopic studies. All neurons analysed in the present study made symmetrical synapses on to dendrites and somata of presumed mitral/tufted cells and received asymmetrical synapses from them, and occasionally formed reciprocal synapses with them. On the parvalbumin-immunoreactive processes, the asymmetrical synapses nearly equalled the symmetrical ones in number and about 30-50% of them were identified as reciprocal pairs. In contrast, no presynaptic sites were observed on parvalbumin-immunoreactive somata, and thick portions (more than approximately 2 microns in diameter) of the proximal dendrites, where they were occasionally postsynaptic in some asymmetrical and symmetrical synapses from parvalbumin-immunonegative profiles. Characteristically, parvalbumin-immunoreactive process frequently make direct contacts with one another; processes regarded light microscopically as arising from a soma or a dendrite or parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons were sometimes revealed to be separate but directly contacting processes with electron microscopic examinations. Although puncta adherentia were occasionally observed between these contact sites, so far neither gap junctions nor chemical synapses were observed. Until now, it has been believed that in the external plexiform layer only granule cells form reciprocal synapses with mitral/tufted cells. However, the present study clearly demonstrates that interneurons different from granule cells, namely GABAergic neurons containing a calcium-binding protein parvalbumin, also make reciprocal synapses with mitral/tufted cells in the external plexiform layer. Therefore, neuronal processes making reciprocal synapses with mitral/tufted cells in the external plexiform layer cannot be determined a priori as granule cell processes.
Combined retrograde tracing and immunocytochemical experiments were carried out on rats to ascertain whether corticocortical projecting neurons in the somatic sensory areas are immunoreactive to an antiserum against glutamate decarboxylase. Injections of a retrograde tracer (colloidal gold-labelled wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to enzymatically inactive horseradish peroxidase) in the first somatic sensory area labelled neurons in the injected area, in the second somatic sensory area, and in the parietoventral area of the ipsilateral hemisphere. The topographical and laminar distribution of these retrogradely-labelled corticocortical neurons in the first and second somatic sensory areas and in the parietoventral area was in line with a previous description (Fabri M. and Burton H. (1991b) J. comp. Neurol. 311, 405-424). In sections processed for the simultaneous visualization of the retrograde tracer and glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity, a number of neurons were double-labelled. Double-labelled neurons were most numerous in the first somatic sensory cortex, where they accounted for 5% of all retrogradely-labelled neurons. Outside this region, double-labelled cells were observed in the second somatic sensory cortex and in the parietoventral cortex, where they amounted respectively to 2.8% and 2.3% of all corticocortical neurons labelled in these two areas. Glutamate decarboxylase-immunopositive corticocortical neurons were mainly concentrated in the infragranular layers (73.8% of all double-labelled neurons in the first somatic sensory area, 81.7% in the second somatic sensory area, and 76.5% in the parietoventral area). The results indicate the presence of a small but significant contingent of GABAergic inhibitory neurons in the associative connections of the somatic sensory areas.
Extracellular levels of acetylcholine in the prefrontal cortex were measured using the micro-dialysis method in freely moving young (three to four months old) and old (23 to 24 months old) male rats over a period of 24 h to examine the effect of aging on prefrontal acetylcholine release. Prefrontal acetylcholine release during a 24 h period exhibited a diurnal variation with higher levels during the dark cycle than during the light cycle in young rats but not in old rats. In addition, prefrontal acetylcholine release was closely associated with spontaneous activity in young rats but not in old rats. The present study suggests that aging reduces diurnal changes in the prefrontal acetylcholine release and that there is a cross-correlation between the prefrontal acetylcholine release and spontaneous locomotor activity in male rats.
It is known that glutamatergic tracts activated from the pedunculopontine tegmentum represent a major input to the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. To establish the role of different ionotropic glutamate receptors in synaptic transmission in the basal forebrain, the pedunculopontine tegmentum was stimulated in urethane-anesthetized rats and the resulting increases in cortical acetylcholine release and desynchronization of the electroencephalogram were monitored. R(-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazine-4-yl)-propyl-I-phosphonic acid (CPP), an antagonist at N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptors, and 6, 7-dinitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione (DNQX), an antagonist at alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors, were delivered through a microdialysis probe placed in the basal forebrain. The N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist preferentially inhibited cortical acetylcholine release, while the AMPA antagonist was more powerful in reducing desynchronization. A combination of both N-methyl-D-aspartate and AMPA antagonists abolished the increase in cortical acetylcholine release without reducing desynchronization. The dissociation between increased cortical acetylcholine release and electroencephalogram desynchronization suggests that the activity of corticopetal basal forebrain cholinergic neurons is neither necessary nor sufficient to produce electroencephalogram desynchronization. Rather, the nucleus basalis can probably affect the electroencephalogram by its projections to the thalamus. The reversal of the inhibitory effect of DNQX on the electroencephalogram by CPP may be due to the blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors on the GABAergic projection from the basal forebrain to the thalamus.
The formation of the GABAergic septohippocampal projection was studied in vitro. Slice cultures of the septal complex from young postnatal rats were prepared and co-cultivated with hippocampal slices for up to four weeks. Then, the anterogradely transported tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin was injected into the septal culture and the labeled fibers were traced into the hippocampal culture. Some fibers were identified as originating from GABAergic septal cells by double-labeling with an antiserum against GABA using the postembedding immunogold procedure. Our results showed that double-labeled terminals of GABAergic septohippocampal neurons established symmetric synapses exclusively with GABA-positive dendrites in one out of five co-cultures, but also contacted numerous GABA-negative structures in the remaining four co-cultures. These findings, together with light microscopic data from sections double-stained for Phaseolus and parvalbumin, indicate that the high target selectivity of the GABAergic septohippocampal pathway for GABAergic interneurons in vivo is lost in most cases, at least under the present in vitro conditions. It is hypothesized that this may be due to an immaturity of the connection, the lack of axon-guiding factors or an expansion of the septohippocampal GABAergic fibers in the absence of many extrinsic afferents, including GABAergic fibers. The simultaneous occurrence of anterogradely labeled, but GABA-negative, septohippocampal terminals in the hippocampal target culture also suggests that the septohippocampal cholinergic projection developed in vitro, as was shown before in other studies. Since most septohippocampal neurons have to be axotomized for culture preparation, the present results indicate that GABAergic septohippocampal neurons from young postnatal rats survive axotomy and are capable of regenerating a septohippocampal projection, including the formation of characteristic GABAergic synapses on co-cultured hippocampal neurons. However, the characteristic target selectivity is rarely preserved.
An in vitro slice preparation of combined hippocampus and entorhinal cortex from adult rats was used to study the modalities of generation and propagation, as well as the pharmacological properties of the epileptiform activity induced by the muscarinic agonist pilocarpine (10 microM). Simultaneous field potentials recordings were made from the medial entorhinal cortex and from the dentate gyrus, CA3 and CA1 subfields. Pilocarpine application induced two types of interictal epileptiform discharges. The first occurred in the entorhinal cortex and consisted of bursts of population spikes lasting 408 +/- 135 ms (n = 20 slices) and repeating at a rate of 0.26 +/- 0.07 Hz (n = 20); this interictal activity propagated to the hippocampus via the perforant path. The second type was only observed in CA3 and CA1 subfields, had shorter duration (82 +/- 16 ms; n = 20) and occurred at a higher rate (1.42 +/- 0.7 Hz; n = 20) than the first type. Ictal epileptiform discharges (duration: 11.5 +/- 4.1 s; rate: 0.002 +/- 0.0009 Hz; n = 10) were also seen in the entorhinal cortex, from where they propagated to the dentate, CA3 and CA1 via the hippocampal trisynaptic loop as revealed by latency analysis and lesion experiments. Ictal and interictal discharges of entorhinal origin disappeared in the hippocampal sectors, but continued to occur in the entorhinal cortex following a cut of the perforant path (n = 5). Fast interictal discharges observed solely in the hippocampus originated in CA3, since sectioning the Schaffer collaterals made them disappear in CA1 (n = 7). All types of epileptiform activity disappeared during application of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione (10 microM; n = 7). By contrast, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 3-3(2-carboxy-piperazine-4-yl) propyl-1-phosphonate (10 microM) abolished ictal discharges in the entorhinal cortex and reduced the duration of the interictal events recorded in this area (n = 7). Interictal discharges originating from CA3 continued to occur at a higher rate than in control during application of this N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. Our study confirms that the combined hippocampal-entorhinal slice preparation represents a suitable model for understanding the modalities of origin and propagation of epileptiform activity within the limbic system. In this in vitro preparation, the entorhinal cortex is the site of origin for ictal discharges. Moreover, the different types of epileptiform activity induced by this muscarinic agonist have specific, structure-dependent pharmacological profiles. These results are discussed in relation to those obtained in vivo.
The effect of ascorbic acid on cell size and ascorbic acid transport was studied in hyperoxic astrocytes. Subcultured rat astrocytes plated on poly-L-lysine-coated coverslips or on plastic dishes were exposed to serum-free culture medium and 20% or 42% ambient oxygen for 48 h. Vehicle (homocysteine) or L-ascorbic acid was added to the medium at 0 and 24 h. Cell size and relative optical density of glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes were measured by a computerized imaging system. Cells on the dishes were used for ascorbic acid transport studies. Hyperoxia significantly increased the cell size of astrocytes, and this effect was inhibited by ascorbic acid. The rate of L-[14C]ascorbic acid Na(+)-dependent uptake was also inhibited by hyperoxia in vehicle-treated cultures but not in ascorbic acid-supplemented cultures. These results indicate that the presence of ascorbic acid during the hyperoxic episode can prevent astrocytic cell swelling and preserve membrane transport function.
Chromogranin A is an ubiquitous 48,000 mol. wt secretory protein stored and released from many neuroendocrine cells and neurons. In human brain, chromogranin A is a common feature of regions that are known to be affected by various neurodegenerative pathologies such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Pick's diseases. Brain degenerative areas are generally infiltrated by activated microglial cells, the resident macrophage cell population within the central nervous system. Here, we report that both recombinant human chromogranin A and chromogranin A purified from bovine chromaffin granules trigger drastic morphological changes in rat microglial cells maintained in culture. Microglial cells exposed to chromogranin A adopted a flattened amoeboid shape and, this change was associated with an accumulation of actin in the subplasmalemmal region, as observed by immunocytochemistry and confocal laser microscopy. In single microglial cells loaded with indo-1, chromogranin A elicited a rapid and transient increase in [Ca2+]i which preceded the reorganization of actin cytoskeleton. The activity of nitric oxide synthase was estimated by measuring the accumulation of nitrite in the culture medium. Both recombinant human chromogranin A and bovine chromogranin A triggered an important accumulation of nitrite comparable to that induced by lipopolysaccharide, a well-known activator of microglia. The effect of chromogranin A was dose dependent, inhibited by N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, a competitive inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, and by cycloheximide, an inhibitor of protein synthesis. These findings suggest that chromogranin A induces an activated phenotype of microglia, and thus may have a role in the pathogenesis of neuronal degeneration in the brain.
This study used NADPH diaphorase (NADPHd) histochemistry and neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunocytochemistry to examine the localization of nitric oxide synthase in the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricles and the fourth ventricle of rat brain. That the NADPHd reaction product in choroid plexus was specific to nitric oxide synthase was evaluated: (i) by comparison to immunocytochemical labelling for nitric oxide synthase; and (ii) by comparing NADPHd histochemical staining in choroid plexus and brain (rich in nitric oxide synthase-positive and NADPHd-positive neurons) in the presence or absence of iodonium diphenyl or dichlorophenolindophenol, two potent albeit non-selective inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase activity. In brain, NADPHd histochemistry homogeneously stained neuronal cell bodies, axons and dendrites, while it produced particulate cytoplasmic staining of all epithelial cells in the choroid plexuses of the lateral and fourth ventricles. Within the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricles, NADPHd-positive nerve fibres were also observed around blood vessels and coursing among the epithelial cells. The distribution of immunoreactivity for nitric oxide synthase in brain and in nerve fibres in the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles resembled the distribution of histochemical labelling for NADPHd. Choroid plexus epithelial cells were, however, devoid of nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity. Consistent with this, iodonium diphenyl and dichlorophenolindophenol (0.1 mM) inhibited NADPHd histochemical staining in brain neurons and in choroid plexus nerve fibres, but not in choroid plexus epithelial cells. These results demonstrate that the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricles in rat brain is innervated by nitric oxide synthase-positive nerve fibres. These nitric oxide synthase-positive nerve fibres may have an important role in the regulation of cerebrospinal fluid balance. Although choroid plexus epithelial cells contain an enzyme with NADPHd activity, this enzyme is not nitric oxide synthase.
Parkinson's disease is characterized by a loss of dopaminergic neurons in the mesencephalon. Although the mechanism of this neuronal loss is still unknown, oxidative stress is very likely involved in the cascade of events leading to nerve cell death. Since nitric oxide could be involved in the production of free radicals, we analysed, using immunohistochemistry and histochemistry, the production systems of nitric oxide in the mesencephalon of four patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and three matched control subjects. Using specific antibodies directed against the inducible isoform of nitric oxide synthase (the enzyme involved in the synthesis of nitric oxide), we found evidence to suggest that this isoform was present solely in glial cells displaying the morphological characteristics of activated macrophages. Immunohistochemical analysis performed with antibodies against the neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase, however, revealed perikarya and processes of neurons but no glial cell staining. The number of nitric oxide synthase-containing cells was investigated by histoenzymology, using the NADPH-diaphorase activity of nitric oxide synthase. Histochemistry revealed (i) a significant increase in NADPH-diaphorase-positive glial cell density in the dopaminergic cell groups characterized by neuronal loss in Parkinson's disease and (ii) a neuronal loss in Parkinson's disease that was two-fold greater for pigmented NADPH-diaphorase-negative neurons than for pigmented NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons. These data suggest a potentially deleterious role of glial cells producing excessive levels of nitric oxide in Parkinson's disease, which may be neurotoxic for a subpopulation of dopaminergic neurons, especially those not expressing NADPH-diaphorase activity. However, it cannot be excluded that the presence of glial cells expressing nitric oxide synthase in the substantia nigra of patients with Parkinson's disease represents a consequence of dopaminergic neuronal loss.
To address the importance of nitric oxide or its reaction products as mediators of neurotoxicity in brain, tissue injury was assessed after transient global ischemia in mice rendered mutant in the gene for neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Halothane-anesthetized wild type and mutant mice were subjected to temporary occlusion of the basilar plus both carotid arteries for 5 or 10 min followed by three days of reperfusion. Hippocampal injury, assessed both by qualitative grading and by cell counting in the CA1 subregion, was significantly less in the mutant mice group after 5 or 10 min of ischemia. Mutant mice exhibited a lower mortality (P &lt; 0.01), less weight loss, more normal grooming and spontaneous motor activity and better grasping in the 10 min group. There were no obvious differences in cerebrovascular anatomy or hemodynamics between wild type and mutant mice. The data suggest that a deficiency of neuronal nitric oxide synthase confers increased resistance to transient global cerebral ischemia, and support the suggestion that selective neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitors might reduce tissue injury associated with global cerebral ischemia.
Twenty-four hour exposure to cycloheximide produced a concentration-dependent reduction in protein synthesis in mouse cortical cell cultures. Unexpectedly, a 24 h pretreatment with cycloheximide exposure also reduced neuronal vulnerability to subsequent oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced injury, measured both acutely (cell swelling) or after one day (cell lysis). This neuroprotective effect was attenuated if the period of cycloheximide pretreatment was shortened to 8 h, and lost if the pretreatment was shortened to 1 h. A comparable neuroprotective effect was also induced by 24 h pretreatment with another protein synthesis inhibitor, emetine. The neuroprotection induced by pretreatment with cycloheximide or emetine was probably not attributable to reduction of apoptosis: (i) neuronal death under these conditions occurs by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated excitotoxic necrosis, not apoptosis; (ii) the same cycloheximide pretreatment did not block staurosporine-induced apoptosis. Also unlikely as an explanation is reduction in postsynaptic vulnerability to excitotoxicity, as death induced by exogenous addition of N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate, or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate was little affected by cycloheximide pretreatment. Rather, the protective effect of cycloheximide pretreatment was probably explained, at least in part, by marked reduction in the glutamate release induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation.
The [14C]deoxyglucose method was used to map the metabolic activity in the primary somatosensory and motor cortex in monkeys (Macaca nemestrina) performing a unimanual task. The task required visually guided reaching and target holding at a rate of about 10 movements per min. The entire dorsoventral extent of the cortical region lying between the posterior crown of the arcuate and the anterior crown of the intraparietal sulci was reconstructed on the sagittal plane, from horizontal sections aligned on the fundus of the central sulcus. The metabolic mapping of the control monkey demonstrated homogeneous activity all around the central sulcus, bilaterally. The mapped activity in the performing monkeys displayed two different patterns. The first pattern, contralateral to the moving forelimb, was characterized by several discrete regions of increased metabolic activity, which were symmetrically distributed in a mirror image fashion around the fundus of the central sulcus. These activated regions correspond to the lower body, forelimb, and mouth areas of representation of body parts in previously reported maps in primary motor and somatosensory cortical areas. The second activity pattern ipsilateral to the moving forelimb, displayed activated somatosensory and motor regions corresponding only to the lower body, and mouth representations. Our study provides a continuous, high resolution map of activity pattern in the entire primary motor and somatosensory cortices, which demonstrates that the reaching forelimb is controlled by a discrete subregion in the contralateral somatosensorimotor cortex, whereas other subregions of body representation are actively involved, bilaterally, during the performance of a relatively simple motor behaviour.
In a previous study, fluorescence labeling of a plasmalemmal ATPase protein with the 5F10 monoclonal antibody revealed prominent antigen in the cerebellar molecular layer surrounding the somata and dendrites of Purkinje cells. In the present study, this antibody labeled with silver enhanced nano-sized gold particles on semithin plastic sections revealed a clearly demarcated plasma membrane outlining the somata and entire dendritic arbors of Purkinje cells including their spines. Ultrastructural analysis of horseradish peroxidase preparations showed reaction product along the plasmalemma and extending on to the sub-plasmalemmal endoplasmic reticulum. In the granular layer, somata of granule cells were reactive, as were their dendritic extensions into glomeruli where reactive claws surrounded voids formed by mossy fiber rosettes. Somata and dendrites of cerebellar nuclear cells also had reactive zones that were limited to the plasma membrane and a narrow zone of the sub-plasmalemmal endoplasmic reticulum. Comparative labeling of this protein and P channel protein revealed similar plasmalemmal locations. This study shows that a specific calcium ATPase pump protein is located on the plasmalemma of certain types of cerebellar neurons. The ultrastructural distribution of calcium pump and P channel antibodies occurred in punctate sites along the plasma membrane of dendrites and spines of Purkinje cells. The close association between P-type calcium channels and the plasma membrane calcium pump is consistent with rapid extrusion of intracellular calcium from neurons endowed with large numbers of voltage-gated calcium channels.
Phasic events, termed ponto-geniculo-occipital potentials, appear in the brainstem, thalamus and cerebral cortex during rapid eye movement sleep. In the cat, the species of choice for ponto-geniculo-occipital studies, these field potentials are usually recorded from the lateral geniculate thalamic nucleus and visual cortex. However, the fact that brainstem cholinergic neurons play a crucial role in the transfer of ponto-geniculo-occipital potentials to the thalamus, coupled with the evidence that mesopontine tegmental neurons project to virtually all thalamic nuclei, together explain why ponto-geniculo-occipital potentials are recorded over widespread territories, beyond the visual thalamocortical system. Here we demonstrate, by means of multi-site unit and field potential recordings from sensory, motor and association cortical areas in behaving cats, that: (i) ponto-geniculo-occipital potentials appear synchronously over the neocortex; and (ii) that their cortical synchronization develops progressively from the period preceding rapid eye movement sleep by 30-90 s (pre-rapid eye movement), to reach the highest degree of intracortical coherence during later epochs of rapid eye movement sleep. We propose that the widespread coherence of cortical ponto-geniculo-occipital potentials underlies the synchronization of fast oscillations (30-40 Hz) during rapid eye movement sleep over many, functionally distinct cortical territories implicated in dreaming, as brainstem-induced ponto-geniculo-occipital-like potentials are consistently followed by such fast oscillations.
To celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of the founding of the International Brain Research Organization (IBRO), a symposium was organized for the III Congress of the World Federation of Neuroscientists in Montreal to present, on 7 August 1991, the recollections of some of the early participants in IBRO's history and to place it in the context of other significant world organizations. Edited and slightly condensed transcripts of the talks together with the discussions are presented. L. Marshall reviewed the antecedent conferences that led to the Moscow Colloquium in 1958 and the subsequent formation of IBRO with UNESCO support. The ambience of that period for scientific organization on an international level was discussed by W. A. Rosenblith who emphasized how IBRO goals fitted into the rising interest in brain and behavior research. The scientific careers of six past executive secretaries were briefly reviewed by P. Gloor, with special tribute to the first, Herbert Jasper. One of IBRO's major achievements, the world survey of resources and needs in brain research, was described first-hand by G. Krauthamer. To discuss IBRO's image, C. Blakemore invoked the travails of reorganization and recovery from a period of inactivity. Finally, placing IBRO in a national and international context, S. Cozzens presented the perspective of the historian of sociology on an upbeat note.
We have investigated the response of astrocytes and microglia to trimethyl tin intoxication in the septum, hippocampus, olfactory bulb, and pyriform cortex of the rat. Microglia were studied qualitatively using lectin histochemistry, and astrocytes were examined both qualitatively with immunohistochemistry, and quantitatively using an immunoassay for glial fibrillary acidic protein. Our results show that activated microglia first appeared 2 days after trimethyl tin intoxication in the lateral septum and hippocampus. Four days after trimethyl tin intoxication, the same regions revealed a most intense microglial reaction characterized by microglial hypertrophy and the formation of phagocytic clusters. By day 7, microglial activation in the septum and hippocampus had lessened, suggesting that the cells were reverting to the resting phenotype. The microglial response in the pyriform cortex and olfactory bulb, while being later in onset than in the septum and hippocampus, showed a similar progression of microglial changes reaching maximal intensity 7 days after trimethyl tin intoxication. Significant increases in the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein were observed in all regions examined and typically occurred after microglial activation was already underway. We conclude that microglial and astroglial reactions which occur in response to trimethyl tin-induced neuronal necrosis are separated in time, with microglial activation preceding astrogliosis. In addition, our study stresses the importance of microglia as an endogenous source of CNS macrophages, and illustrates the merit of histochemical analysis with microglial markers for the early delineation of neurotoxicant-induced brain damage.
The expression of the neuropeptides galanin and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) is increased in subpopulations of sympathetic neurons after axotomy of the rat superior cervical ganglion. We investigated whether postganglionic neurons innervating different targets show a prevalence for any of the two peptides in response to carotid nerve lesion. Before the respective postganglionic axons were crushed close to the ganglion, postganglionic neurons projecting either to the iris (through the internal carotid nerve) or to the submandibular gland (through both carotid branches) were identified by the retrograde tracer Fast Blue. Galanin and VIP immunoreactivities were demonstrated two and 30 days after crush and after successful regeneration of the lesioned neurons (60 days). In control ganglia, both peptides were detected in a few gland- but not in iris-projecting neurons. However, two days after crush of the respective carotid nerves, 14% of neurons within the iris and 46% within the gland population were immunoreactive for galanin. The percentage of neurons immunoreactive for VIP was significantly lower in both populations: only 3.5% of neurons projecting to the iris and 23% of the gland-projecting neuron population exhibited this peptide. After 30 days, the percentage of galanin- and VIP-positive neurons projecting to the submandibular gland was reduced (24% and 5.7%, respectively), whereas the proportion of galanin-immunoreactive neurons further increased within the iris population (55%), indicating that some neurons express galanin at later stages after the lesion. At 60 days after the crush, the percentage of galanin- or VIP-immunoreactive neurons had decreased to control levels within those neuron populations that re-innervated the iris or submandibular gland, although the total number of neurons exhibiting galanin or VIP was still increased within the ganglion, suggesting that re-establishment of target contact may play a role in down-regulation of both peptides.
In order to determine whether spinothalamic neurons in the lumbar spinal cord of the rat process neurokinin-1 (substance P) receptors, we injected cholera toxin B subunit into the thalamus and carried out dual-labelling immunocytochemistry to search for neurons that were immunoreactive with antibodies to cholera toxin and neurokinin-1 receptor. We examined 356 spinothalamic neurons in transverse sections and found that 35% of these were neurokinin-1 receptor-immunoreactive. Double-labelled cells made up the majority of the spinothalamic population in lamina I and the lateral spinal nucleus, and were also present in laminae III-V and the area around the central canal. On the side contralateral to the injection site, 77% of spinothalamic neurons in lamina I also showed neurokinin-1 receptor immunoreactivity, while 33% of those in laminae III-V and 14% of the ventromedial group possessed the receptor. Several of the double-labelled neurons with cell bodies in laminae III and IV had dendrites which could be followed dorsally into the superficial dorsal horn. These results indicate that substance P released from nociceptive primary afferents into the superficial dorsal horn is likely to act on spinothalamic tract neurons in lamina I, and also on those with cells bodies in laminae III-IV and long dorsal dendrites.
Corneal afferent nerves project to two spatially distinct sites within the spinal trigeminal nucleus: the subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis transition and the subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical spinal cord transition. The role of these two regions in processing corneal input is uncertain. To determine if neurons in these regions encode different features of an applied corneal stimulus, immunoreactivity for the immediate early gene protein product, Fos, was quantified in barbiturate-anesthetized rats. Intensity was varied across thermal (thermal probe 5, 35, 42, 52 degrees C; radiant heat of approximately 45 degrees C) stimuli and compared with that seen after mustard oil (5 microliters, 20%) or mineral oil application. All stimuli increased the number of Fos-positive neurons located at the ventrolateral pole of the subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis transition compared with unstimulated controls. By contrast, only 52 degrees C thermal probe and mustard oil produced an additional peak of Fos-positive neurons within the superficial laminae at the subnucleus caudalis/cervical cord transition. Further, the magnitudes of the bimodal peaks of Fos produced by 52 degrees C thermal probe and mustard oil stimuli were different quantitatively. Mustard oil caused a greater Fos response at the subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis transition than 52 degrees C thermal probe stimulation, whereas the opposite was true at the subnucleus caudalis/cervical cord transition. Double-labeling revealed that Fos immunoreactive neurons within the spinal trigeminal nucleus were restricted to regions densely labeled for calcitonin gene-related peptide. These results indicate that select features of corneal stimuli such as modality are encoded differently by neurons in the trigeminal subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis transition compared with those located in the subnucleus caudalis/cervical cord transition. It is likely that neurons in these two brainstem regions subserve different aspects of corneal sensation.
Tolerance to the analgesic effects of morphine results in part from the development of a compensatory response in neurons that express the opioid receptor or of neural circuits in which those neurons participate. According to this formulation, withdrawal of morphine results in an overshoot of several neuronal properties because of the unopposed action of the compensatory response system. To identify the population of spinal cord neurons that underlies this state, we monitored expression of Fos-like immunoreactivity, after naltrexone-precipitated abstinence in normal and morphine-tolerant rats. After daily (five days) implantation of morphine or placebo pellets, the rats received an injection of saline or naltrexone and behavior was monitored for 1 h. The rats were then killed, their spinal cords removed and 50-microns transverse sections of the lumbar cord were immunostained with a rabbit polyclonal antiserum directed against Fos. Naltrexone injection in the placebo group did not increase spinal cord Fos expression. Naltrexone-precipitated abstinence resulted in an increase in Fos expression at all levels of the spinal cord; the greatest increase and densest staining was in laminae I through VI. Importantly, when withdrawal was precipitated in anesthetized rats, we recorded a significant reduction in Fos expression, particularly in laminae III through VI, but there was persistent expression in the superficial dorsal horn, particularly in lamina I. These results suggest that spinal cord nociresponsive neurons are sensitized during the development of tolerance. This sensitization is unmasked by the administration of naltrexone and is manifested by fos induction in laminae I/II in awake or anesthetized withdrawing animals. The underlying mechanisms of tolerance development may be similar to those that underlie injury-induced central sensitization and hyperalgesia.
A single base deletion (delta G) in the vasopressin gene is the cause of diabetes insipidus in the homozygous Brattleboro rat (di/di). The resulting frameshift leads to the expression of an aberrant vasopressin precursor which is unable to enter the secretory pathway, thereby preventing vasopressin biosynthesis. In a small number of solitary magnocellular hypothalamic neurons within the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei, the reading frame is restored by a dinucleotide (delta GA) frameshift mutation, at two separate GAGAG motifs downstream of the original G-deletion. This results in two + 1 di-vasopressin precursors that are still partially mutated within the neurophysin region. The present study provides immunocytochemical evidence which demonstrates that, within magnocellular solitary neurons of the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of the di/di rat, the + 1 di-vasopressin precursors can enter the secretory pathway followed by their enzymatic processing into vasopressin during axonal transport to the neural lobe. However, the cellular characteristics of biosynthesis are different from those of wild-type rats. Immunoelectron microscopical localization of vasopressin gene products in the neural lobe of did/di rats revealed their presence in neurosecretory granules, the diameter of which is intermediate (116 nm) between those of the neurosecretory granules in the di/di (80-100 nm) and wild-type (160 nm) rats.
We examined whether methamphetamine modifies the photic entraining responses in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus. Optic nerve stimulation increased vasoactive intestinal polypeptide release from rat suprachiasmatic nucleus slices, and methamphetamine inhibited this increase in a concentration-dependent manner. Optic nerve stimulation has been reported to evoke field potentials in rat suprachiasmatic nucleus slices. Methamphetamine attenuated this field potential, and maximal inhibition (75.5%) was achieved at a concentration of 100 microM. Systemic administration of methamphetamine (1-5 mg/kg) inhibited light (300 lux, 1h)-induced Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus; methamphetamine at a dose of 5 mg/kg, i.p. caused 40% inhibition of light-induced Fos expression. We examined whether the inhibitory effect of methamphetamine on photic entraining responses mediates serotonin release from the suprachiasmatic nucleus. High-performance liquid chromatographic analysis revealed that methamphetamine application increased serotonin release from rat suprachiasmatic nucleus slices in a concentration-dependent manner, but did not affect noradrenaline release. In addition, reduction of serotonin content attenuated the effect of methamphetamine on field potential induced by optic nerve stimulation in vitro and also light-induced phase advances of wheel running activity rhythm in vivo. The present results support the idea that methamphetamine produces an inhibitory effect on photic entrainment in the suprachiasmatic nucleus via serotonin release.
The mechanical tuning characteristics of the hearing organ were measured in response to sound stimulation using laser heterodyne interferometry in in vitro preparations of temporal bones from waltzing guinea-pigs expressing different degrees of hearing organ and sensory cell degeneration. Measurements were made at various stages of structural changes allowing us to correlate structure and mechanical function. It was found that the characteristic frequency of the response at a given location in the cochlea occurred at lower frequencies than what is normally seen and that the sharpness of the mechanical tuning was considerably reduced when sensory hair cells were absent and the hearing organ structurally altered. However, even when extensive hair cell degeneration was evident a residual mechanical tuning was present. These results further support the concept that the sensory hair cells plays a key role in determining normal auditory tuning characteristics. It is suggested that the basilar membrane mechanics gives rise to a broadly tuned mechanical response on which a sharper tuning mechanism, originating from the hair cells, is superimposed.
Anterograde studies have shown that neurons within the rostral (gustatory) nucleus of the solitary tract project to the parabrachial nucleus, as well as to sites within the medulla including the reticular formation and caudal nucleus of the solitary tract. In order to determine the degree to which the same neurons contribute to both projections, injections of retrograde tracers were made simultaneously into both the parabrachial nuclei and medullary reticular formation of the rat. Only a small proportion of neurons were double labeled. Consistent with studies in hamster, labeled neurons projecting to the parabrachial nuclei in rat consisted of both stellate and elongate neurons, concentrated within the central subdivision of the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract. Injections into the medullary reticular formation also labeled both stellate and elongate neurons but these were concentrated in the ventral subdivision of the nucleus. The results of the present study demonstrate that different populations of neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract contribute to ascending and descending pathways. This suggest a possible functional specialization within the nucleus of the solitary tract for those neurons whose output eventually reaches the forebrain compared to those neurons with local connections.
The microtubule-associated protein tau is more highly phosphorylated at certain residues in developing brain and in Alzheimer's disease paired helical filaments than in adult brain. We examined the regulation of tau phosphorylation at some of these sites in rat brain using the phosphorylation state-dependent anti-tau antibodies AT8, Tau1, and PHF1. The AT8 and PHF1 antibodies bind to phosphorylated tau, while Tau1 binds to unphosphorylated tau. Levels of tau reactive for AT8 were high only during the first postnatal week, with levels in adult declining to approximately 5% of the levels in neonates. In neonatal forebrain slices, tau became rapidly dephosphorylated at the AT8 and Tau1 sites during incubation at 34 degrees C, but was incompletely dephosphorylated at the PHF1 site. Dephosphorylation at AT8 sites, but not at Tau1 or PHF1 sites, was completely inhibited by 1 microM okadaic acid. Hence the regulation of tau phosphorylation by okadaic acid-sensitive phosphatase(s) was site-specific. Addition of 1 microM okadaic acid after dephosphorylation at the AT8 locus yielded a partial recovery of AT8 immunoreactivity, and incubation with basic fibroblast growth factor increased phosphorylation at the AT8 site in a dose-dependent manner. These results indicate that endogenously active and basic fibroblast growth factor stimulated tau kinases directed toward an Alzheimer's disease-related site were present in the slices. In adult brain slices, the small pool of AT8-reactive tau was remarkably insensitive to dephosphorylation during incubation, and okadaic acid treatment induced only small increases in AT8 immunoreactivity. These results suggest that tau phosphorylation in adult brain is less dynamic than in neonatal brain. These findings indicate that neonatal tau is not only phosphorylated more highly than adult tau, but also more dynamically regulated by protein phosphatases and protein kinases than adult tau. The inability of okadaic acid to induce large increases in tau phosphorylation in adult rat brain slices suggests that a loss of protein phosphatase activity alone would not be sufficient to produce the hyperphosphorylation observed in Alzheimer's disease paired helical filaments. Stimulation of kinase activity by basic fibroblast growth factor is likely to modulate tau function during development, and may contribute to the genesis of hyperphosphorylated tau in Alzheimer's disease.
Nitric oxide synthase and its product nitric oxide are believed to be significantly involved in neuronal degeneration associated with various excitotoxic events and in some acute and chronic neuropathological disease states. The synchronous activation of inferior olive neurons by the drug harmaline is known to produce tremorogenic activity in rats via increased stimulation of the olivocerebellar system. Following subcutaneous or intraperitoneal injection (15, 30 or 60 mg/kg) of harmaline and survival intervals of three days or more, NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry and nitric oxide synthase immunocytochemistry revealed nitric oxide synthase induction in Purkinje cells of the cerebellar vermis and paravermis, but not the lateral hemispheres. Double labeling with NADPH-diaphorase and calbindin revealed that induced Purkinje cells contain calbindin and that induced Purkinje cells are not necessarily associated with regions of Purkinje cell degeneration. The induction of nitric oxide synthase in a subpopulation of Purkinje cells may reflect a protective response of selected Purkinje cells to overstimulation of specific olivocerebellar projections. This is the first experimental model for the non-invasive induction of nitric oxide synthase in central nervous system neurons and as such may provide a useful tool for studying the induction of nitric oxide synthase associated with excitotoxic events.
The present study was designed to evaluate the postsynaptic functional consequences of different presynaptic activity patterns in midbrain dopamine systems using electrical stimulation of the rat medial forebrain bundle and subsequent determination of c-fos expression, used as a marker for neuronal activation, in dopamine target areas, by means of Fos immunohistochemistry. Nerve terminal dopamine release evoked by electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle was monitored in the same animals using in vivo voltammetry. A 5 Hz stimulation consisting of 60 trains of five pulses and lasting 1 min was applied to the medial forebrain bundle. This stimulation was repeated 15 times every 3 min. Its pattern was defined by the interpulse interval which was either 70 ms or 200 ms for burst or regularly spaced stimulation, respectively. Our results show that burst stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle, which increase release of dopamine in target areas, increases the basal Fos-like immunoreactivity in the stimulated hemisphere, while regular stimulation does not affect expression of this protein. Moreover, the increase in Fos-like immunoreactivity induced by burst stimulation is restricted to limbic related structures, i.e. nucleus accumbens shell and intermediate aspect of the lateral septum, and the major island of Calleja, but is not observed in motor related structures (nucleus accumbens core and striatum). Pretreatment with the D1 dopamine receptor antagonist, SCH23390 (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.), blocked the increase in Fos-like immunoreactivity induced by burst stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle, suggesting a role for these receptors in the observed effects. Pretreatment with the 5-hydroxytryptamine2A/2C receptor antagonist ritanserin (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) did not affect the increase in Fos-like immunoreactivity induced by burst stimulation in the nucleus accumbens shell or in the lateral septum, although it blocked the stimulated enhancement of Fos-like immunoreactivity in the major island of Calleja. The present data indicate that, rather than the absolute mean discharge rate of midbrain dopamine neurons, the temporal organization of the action potentials they generate conveys information to their target areas.
Recent studies suggest that a class of substituted amphetamines, which includes p-chloroamphetamine, causes an acute release of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) and appears to act preferentially on axons arising from the dorsal raphe nucleus. The postsynaptic targets of these axons are not well characterized, but they have been localized in close proximity to the distribution of serotonin2A receptor binding sites. In the present study, c-fos immunocytochemistry has been used to investigate this anatomical relationship further. Administration of p-chloroamphetamine or the serotonin2A/2C receptor agonist 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane to rats resulted in similar patterns of Fos-like immunoreactivity in some, but not all, forebrain areas. Areas which expressed Fos following either treatment included cerebral cortex, claustrum, amygdala and nucleus accumbens. A particularly close match was seen in layer Va of the somatosensory cortex. No specificity of p-chloroamphetamine for dorsal raphe nucleus-innervated areas was noted. Prior treatment of animals with p-chloroamphetamine two weeks before a second challenge with the same drug, or with the serotonin2A/2C receptor antagonist ritanserin 30 min before p-chloroamphetamine challenge, resulted in an attenuation of p-chloroamphetamine-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity in the olfactory tubercle, the islands of Calleja and the caudate-putamen. The reduction was most noticeable in layer Va of the somatosensory cortex. The results of this study indicate that a close anatomical correlation may exist between the fine serotonin axon terminals that show vulnerability to the neurotoxic effects of p-chloroamphetamine and serotonin2A receptors in some brain regions. This association may prove to be important in explaining the actions of certain psychotropic drugs, for example in the control of affective states.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine2C serotonin receptor is broadly distributed in brain, however, its functional role is unknown. Peripheral administration of drugs acting at the 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptor induces abnormal oral dyskinesias, hyperkinetic motor disorders that often result from dysfunction of the basal ganglia. The subthalamic nucleus, a brain region anatomically and functionally related to the basal ganglia, has been implicated in oral dyskinesia. The subthalamic nucleus contains messenger RNA encoding 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptors, suggesting its potential role in 5-hydroxytryptamine2C-mediated oral dyskinesia. Both systemic administration and local unilateral infusion of the 5-hydroxytryptamine2C/1B agonist, 1-(m-chlorophenyl)piperazine into the subthalamic nucleus increased orofacial movements. Oral movements following subthalamic infusion of 1-(m-chlorophenyl)piperazine were blocked by systemic administration of the 5-hydroxytryptamine2C/2A antagonists mianserin, ketanserin and mesulergine but were not altered by systemic pretreatment with either the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A/2A and dopamine antagonist spiperone or the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A/1B antagonist pindolol. Co-infusion of mesulergine with 1-(m-chlorophenyl)piperazine into the subthalamic nucleus blocked 1-(m-chlorophenyl)piperazine-stimulated oral movements. Oral bouts following systemically administered 1-(m-chlorophenyl)piperazine were markedly reduced following bilateral subthalamic infusion of either mesulergine or the selective 5-hydroxytryptamine2C antagonist SDZ SER 082. The findings indicate that stimulating 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptors in the subthalamic nucleus elicits orofacial dyskinesia in the rat. These data are novel in providing a behavioral model for central 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptor stimulation attributed to a specific anatomical location, and suggest that antagonists at the 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptor could be useful in treating hyperkinetic motor disorders.
Electrophysiological records of unit activity were used to compare the effects of excitotoxic pallidal lesions and 6-hydroxydopamine-induced damage to the midbrain dopaminergic neurons on the discharge rates and patterns of the subthalamic neurons. Removal of the pallidal input induced a slight, but statistically significant, increase (19.5%) in the discharge rate and no change in the firing pattern when compared to control animals. The rats with a dopaminergic lesion showed greater increase (105.7%) while the firing pattern activity of the subthalamic neurons became more irregular, with burst. These results indicate that the increased activity of the subthalamic neurons following a midbrain dopaminergic lesion cannot be due solely to inhibition-disinhibition involving the striato-pallido-subthalamic pathway and induced by the striatal dopaminergic depletion.
The effects of unique profile antipsychotic drugs on dopamine D2 receptors and D2 receptor messenger RNA were assessed following subchronic administration in rats. Male, Sprague-Dawley rats were administered oral haloperidol, clozapine, metoclopramide or no drug for three weeks via their drinking water. Tissue from the medial nucleus accumbens and dorsolateral caudate-putamen was dissected and analyzed by Northern blot analysis for levels of dopamine D2 receptor messenger RNA and binding assays conducted with [3H]spiperone for dopamine D2 receptors. Haloperidol and metoclopramide, but not clozapine, significantly increased [3H]spiperone in the caudate-putamen, but not the nucleus accumbens. Clozapine significantly decreased D2 messenger RNA levels in the caudate-putamen and the nucleus accumbens, while metoclopramide and haloperidol had no significant effect in either brain region. The finding of decreased D2 receptor messenger RNA levels produced by subchronic clozapine may account for the lack of striatal D2 receptor up-regulation, which was robustly observed after subchronic haloperidol and metoclopramide. Furthermore, since haloperidol and metoclopramide have a high liability for motor side effects, the current results relate favorably to the low motor side effect profile of clozapine.
In the present study we used the dual probe approach to investigate striatal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor regulation of GABA release from the substantia nigra pars reticulata of the awake, freely moving rat. One microdialysis probe of concentric design was implanted in the dorsolateral striatum and another in the ipsilateral substantia nigra pars reticulata. Perfusion with N-methyl-D-aspartate (100 microM) in the dorsolateral striatum decreased local dopamine release (-25%) and increased both glutamate (+40%) and GABA (+35%) release. Moreover, perfusion with N-methyl-D-aspartate (100 microM) in the dorsolateral striatum increased GABA release (+20%) in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Perfusion with the lower (10 microM) N-methyl-D-aspartate concentration in the dorsolateral striatum did not affect striatal dopamine, glutamate and GABA release or nigral GABA release. Intrastriatal perfusion with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (10 microM), at a dose which by itself did not affect basal striatal or nigral neurotransmitter levels, prevented the effects of striatal perfusion with N-methyl-D-aspartate on both striatal and nigral neurotransmitter release. Intrastriatal dizocilpine maleate was also perfused concurrently with intranigral tetrodotoxin (10 microM) (see accompanying paper). Intrastriatal perfusion with dizocilpine maleate prevented the tetrodotoxin-induced rise in both striatal and nigral GABA levels and profoundly reduced the tetrodotoxin-induced contralateral turning. In addition, intrastriatal dizocilpine maleate delayed the increase in striatal glutamate release evoked by intranigral tetrodotoxin without affecting the associated decrease in striatal dopamine release. The present study demonstrates that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the dorsolateral striatum regulate GABA release in the substantia nigra pars reticulata of the awake rat and provides evidence that this regulation plays a key role in motor function.
In the present study we employed the dual probe approach to investigate functional interactions between the nigrostriatal dopaminergic and striatonigral GABAergic pathways in the awake, freely moving rat and their role in motor function. One microdialysis probe of concentric design was implanted in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and another in the ipsilateral dorsolateral striatum. Perfusion with a low-Ca2+ (0.1 mM) medium and with the voltage-dependent Na(+)-channel blocker tetrodotoxin (10 microM) was alternatively performed in both brain regions and the dialysate dopamine, glutamate and GABA levels were simultaneously measured in the dorsolateral striatum, whereas GABA levels alone were monitored in the substantia nigra. Perfusion with a low-Ca2+ medium in the substantia nigra pars reticulata did not affect local GABA levels, but transiently increased striatal dopamine release (+40%) without modifying striatal glutamate and GABA levels. Conversely, intranigral perfusion with tetrodotoxin transiently increased local GABA levels (+40%), while it decreased striatal dopamine (-60%) and increased glutamate (+70%) and GABA (+50%) levels. Perfusion with a low-Ca2+ medium in the dorsolateral striatum reversibly decreased local dopamine (-70%), glutamate (-20%) and GABA (-20%) levels, while local perfusion with tetrodotoxin decreased dopamine (-70%), increased glutamate (+30%) but did not affect dialysate GABA levels in this brain area. Neither of these intrastriatal treatments significantly affected GABA levels in the substantia nigra. Intranigral but not intrastriatal perfusion with tetrodotoxin was also associated with an increase in spontaneous locomotor activity as expressed by contralateral turning. Intranigral and intrastriatal perfusion with low-Ca2+ medium did not influence locomotor activity. On the basis of these neurochemical and behavioural findings, we propose a new dynamic model for the study of motor behaviour as mediated by basal ganglia circuitry.
Nerve growth factor selectively prevents the degeneration of cholinergic neurons following intrastriatal infusion but rescues both cholinergic and noncholinergic striatal neurons if the nerve growth factor is secreted from grafts of genetically modified fibroblasts. The present study evaluated whether grafted fibroblasts genetically modified to secrete human nerve growth factor could provide trophic influences upon intact cholinergic and noncholinergic striatal neurons. Unilateral striatal grafts of polymer-encapsulated cells genetically modified to secrete human nerve growth factor induced hypertrophy and significantly increased the optical density of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive striatal neurons one, two, and four weeks post-transplantation relative to rats receiving identical grafts missing only the human nerve growth factor construct. Nerve growth factor secreting grafts also induced a hypertrophy of noncholinergic neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive striatal neurons one, two, and four weeks post-transplantation. Glutamic acid decarboxylase-immunoreactive neurons were unaffected by the human nerve growth factors secreting grafts. The effects upon choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive striatal neurons dissipated following retrieval of the implants. Immunocytochemistry for nerve growth factor revealed intense graft-derived immunoreactivity for up to 1000 microns from the capsule extending along the dorsoventral axis of the striatum. Nerve growth factor-immunoreactivity was also observed within a subpopulation of striatal neurons and may represent nerve growth factor consumer neurons which retrogradely transported graft-derived nerve growth factor. When explanted, grafts produced 2-4 ng human nerve growth factor/24 h over the time course of this study indicating that this level of continuous human nerve growth factor secretion was sufficient to mediate the effects presently observed.
The prefrontal cortex of primates is an integrative centre for sensory, cognitive, mnemonic and emotional processes. The cellular features which contribute to the functional specialization of its subsectors are poorly understood. In this study we determined the distribution of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-positive neurons in structurally and functionally distinct prefrontal cortices in the rhesus monkey. This class of neurons express nitric oxide synthase which is necessary for the production of nitric oxide, a novel neural messenger implicated in learning and memory. The density of diaphorase-positive neurons was approximately four times higher in olfactory areas than in eulaminate areas (areas 9, 10, 12, 46, and 8), and two- to three-times higher in the agranular limbic area PAll than in eulaminate areas. Positive neurons were concentrated in a deep band (layers V and VI), a superficial band (layers II and upper III), and were sparsely distributed in the central, thalamic recipient zone (deep layer III, layer IV and upper V). The highest densities of positive neurons were observed in the white matter where their prevalence followed the opposite trend than in the corresponding overlying cortices. The distribution of diaphorase-positive neurons was correlated with the regional anatomic and functional specialization of prefrontal cortices. Thus, diaphorase-positive neurons were most densely distributed in orbital and then medial prefrontal limbic cortices which have a low cell density and widespread connections. In contrast, positive neurons were comparatively sparse in eulaminate cortices, which have a high cell density and more restricted connections. These findings indicated that the distribution of diaphorase-positive neurons in prefrontal cortices is not random, but is associated with the structural architecture and functional attributes of these cortices. The preponderance of diaphorase-positive neurons in limbic cortices, which have been implicated in learning and memory, is consistent with the idea that nitric oxide may have a role in synaptic plasticity.
We measured dorsal hippocampal activity accompanying sighs and apnea using reflectance imaging and electrophysiologic measures in freely behaving cats. Reflected 660-nm light from a 1-mm2 area of CA1 was captured during sighs and apnea at 25 Hz through a coherent image conduit coupled to a charge coupled device camera. Sighs and apnea frequently coincided with state transitions. Thus, state transitions without apnea or sighs were separately assessed to control for state-related activity changes. All dorsal hippocampal sites showed discrete regions of activation and inactivation during transient respiratory events. Imaged hippocampal activity increased 1-3 s before the enhanced inspiratory effort associated with sighs, and before resumption of breathing after apnea. State transitions lacking sighs and apnea did not elicit analogous optical activity patterns. The suprasylvian cortex, a control for site, showed no significant overall reflectance changes during phasic respiratory events, and no discrete regions of activation or inactivation. Spectral estimates of hippocampal electroencephalographic activity from 0-12 Hz showed significantly increased power at 3-4 Hz rhythmical slow activity before sighs and apnea, and increased 5-6 Hz rhythmical slow activity power during apnea, before resumption of breathing. Imaged activity and broadband hippocampal electroencephalogram power decreased during sighs. We propose that increased hippocampal activity before sigh onset and apnea termination indicates a role for the hippocampus in initiating inspiratory effort during transient respiratory events.
We investigated extracellular slow negative transient in dentate granule cells of human epileptic hippocampus. Hippocampal slices were prepared from brain specimens removed from 23 patients who underwent surgical treatment for medically intractable seizures. In 15 patients, hippocampi were sclerotic and the aberrant anatomical reorganization of dentate granule cell axons (mossy fibers) was detected. In eight patients, hippocampi were non-sclerotic and nominal reorganization was detected. Single perforant path stimulation evoked field responses in dentate granule cells in all 23 hippocampi. In sclerotic hippocampi, evoked field responses were followed by a slow onset extracellularly negative potential, which appeared gradually in the course of low frequency stimulation of the perforant path. Single action potentials could be recorded from negative potentials indicating that these potentials represented dentate granule cell depolarization. A low concentration of bicuculline methiodide (10 microM), a GABAA receptor antagonist, facilitated the appearance of negative potentials suggesting that a reduction in functional inhibition could unmask these potentials. The application of D-2 amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid blocked extracellular negative potentials, but initial perforant path responses were spared. This finding suggested that negative potentials were at least in part mediated by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subtypes in their generation. In contrast, in non-sclerotic hippocampi with nominal &quot;reorganization&quot;, no extracellular negative potentials were observed. The present study suggests that dentate granule cell excitability could be amplified when their reorganized axonal pathways were present in human sclerotic hippocampus as previously proposed in animal models of epilepsy.
The immunocytochemical distribution of the AMPA-selective receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR2/3 were mapped in the human hippocampal formation obtained from surgery for medically intractable temporal lobe epilepsy. GluR2/3 immunoreactivity was detected in all principal cell types of the hippocampal formation, including hilar neurons, granule cells of the dentate gyrus, and pyramidal cells of the cornu ammonis fields and subiculum. GluR2/3 immunostaining typically filled the cell bodies and processes of neurons. A comparison of GluR2/3 immunoreactivity in a sclerotic specimen versus a non-sclerotic specimen demonstrated a profound loss of staining, specifically in the areas where neuronal dropout was occurring, including CA1, CA3 and the hilus. An analysis of GluR1 immunoreactivity in non-sclerotic specimens revealed that it was predominantly localized to cellular processes throughout the cornu ammonis fields, with a sparse staining of the dentate gyrus outer molecular layer and little to no staining of the dentate gyrus inner molecular layer. Similar to the GluR2/3-immunostained patterns, GluR1 immunoreactivity was lost in the cornu ammonis fields of sclerotic hippocampal specimens, corresponding to patterns of neuronal dropout. Our most compelling finding was a unique extensive pattern of GluR1 and Glu2/3 immunoreactivity throughout the molecular layers of the dentate gyrus of severely compromised hippocampi. The altered staining of GluR1 and GluR2/3 complements some of the patterns of axonal sprouting already described for the dentate gyrus, with a conjecture that their anatomy and distribution pattern underlies to some degree the reorganization of the sclerotic hippocampus. A combination of enhanced glutamatergic transmission and changes in neuropeptides that modulate hippocampal circuitry could greatly affect the degree of excitability in the hippocampal formation. The alterations of GluR1 and GluR2/3 immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus add another component to the concept of reorganization in the epileptic sclerotic hippocampus.
The involvement of protein kinase C in long-term potentiation was investigated in the mossy fiber-CA3 pathway in an in vitro slice preparation of rat hippocampus. Tetanic stimulation induced stable long-term potentiation in the mossy fiber-CA3 pathway which was not affected by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists. Long-term potentiation was not induced in the presence of a protein kinase C inhibitor, sphingosine. Application of 1 microM phorbol-12, 13-diacetate, an activator of protein kinase C, potentiated the synaptic response by about 400% and this potentiation was completely reversible upon washing. Sphingosine blocked the potentiation when it was applied before protein kinase C activation by phorbol-12, 13-diacetate. However, sphingosine had no effect on the potentiation when it was applied after the synaptic response was potentiated to a plateau following phorbol-12,13-diacetate perfusion. Long-term potentiation and phorbol ester-induced potentiation were not additive when phorbol-12,13-diacetate was applied after induction of long-term potentiation, suggesting that long-term potentiation and phorbol-12, 13-diacetate activate the same protein kinase C pool. The enhanced response caused by phorbol-12,13-diacetate returned to the long-term potentiation level after wash-out of phorbol-12,13-diacetate. Thus the cellular changes underlying long-term potentiation are long-lasting or permanent, while those caused by phorbol-12,13-diacetate are not. However, if tetanic stimulation was induced during prolonged phorbol-12,13-diacetate application (1 h), a potentiation similar in amplitude to long-term potentiation was induced but the population response returned to the control pre-long-term potentiation level after 2 h of washing. The potentiation following tetanic stimulation during prolonged application of phorbol-12,13-diacetate was blocked in the presence of D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, a N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. Thus, in the presence of phorbol esters the N-methyl-D-aspartate-independent long-term potentiation is occluded but a transient potentiation appears, presumably due to hyperexcitability and activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in recurrent pathways of area CA3. Normal N-methyl-D-aspartate-independent long-term potentiation could be induced after the 2 h washout period and now was maintained. In conclusion, protein kinase C activation is essential but not sufficient for long-term potentiation in the mossy fiber-CA3 pathway and when stimulated by application of phorbol esters produces a large and reversible synaptic potentiation. These investigations show that long-term potentiation in CA3 is a complex event involving several steps, and that activation of protein kinase C is only one of them.
Recently we reported that in utero and lactational exposure to specific ortho-substituted polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) congeners resulted in a learning deficit on a delayed spatial alternation (DSA) task in female rats. In this study, spatial learning and memory was assessed following in utero and lactational exposure to coplanar PCBs or 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). Time-mated Sprague-Dawley rats were dosed with PCB 77 (3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl), 2 or 8 mg/kg/day; PCB 126 (3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl), 0.25 or 1.0 micrograms/kg/day; TCDD, 0.025 or 0.1 micrograms/kg/day; or corn oil vehicle via gavage on gestation days 10-16. Litters were culled to eight on day 2 and weaned on day 21. Beginning on day 80, one male and one female from each litter were tested on an eight-arm radial maze working memory task. The TCDD-exposed rats displayed pronounced decreases in errors relative to controls. PCB 77- and PCB 126-exposed rats showed similar, but less pronounced, decreases in errors. The same animals were later tested on a T-maze DSA task, but no differences among groups were observed. In conclusion, perinatal exposure to low doses of TCDD or structurally related coplanar PCBs appeared to facilitate acquisition of a working memory task on the radial arm maze. This effect was very different from that previously observed in rats exposed to ortho-substituted PCB congeners. The rats exposed to ortho-substituted PCBs did not differ from controls on the radial arm maze and were impaired on the T-maze DSA task. Together these findings suggest that coplanar and ortho-substituted PCBs may have different mechanisms of action on the CNS.
Hair cells were dissociated from the semicircular canal, utricle, lagena and saccule of white king pigeons. Type I hair cells were identified morphologically based on the ratios of neck width to cuticular plate width (NPR &lt; 0.72) as well as neck width to cell body width (NBR &lt; 0.64). The perforated patch variant of the whole-cell recording technique was used to measure electrical properties from type I hair cells. In voltage-clamp, the membrane properties of all identified type I cells were dominated by a predominantly outward potassium current, previously characterized in semicircular canal as IKI. Zero-current potential, activation, deactivation, slope conductance, pharmacologic and steady-state properties of the complex currents were not statistically different between type I hair cells of different vestibular end organs. The voltage dependence causes a significant proportion of this conductance to be active about the cell's zero-current potential. The first report of the whole-cell activation kinetics of the conductance is presented, showing a voltage dependence that could be best fit by an equation for a single exponential. Results presented here are the first data from pigeon dissociated type I hair cells from utricle, saccule and lagena suggesting that the basolateral conductances of a morphologically identified population of type I hair cells are conserved between functionally different vestibular end organs; the major conductance being a delayed rectifier characterized previously in semicircular canal hair cells as IKI.
The concept of hope is associated with coping and adaptation. Maintenance of hope is a fundamental part of neuroscience nursing. Hope and coping must be important areas of concern to nurses working with patients who have neurodegenerative disorders.
To delineate putative cognitive effects of estrogen in women with Alzheimer's disease, we compared neuropsychological performances in three groups of patients with clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease: women receiving estrogen replacement therapy (n = 9), women not receiving replacement therapy (n = 27), and men (n = 26). Untreated women and men were matched by age, education, and duration of dementia symptoms to women receiving estrogen replacement. We hypothesized that treated women would have better scores on neuropsychological tasks. Results showed that women receiving hormonal therapy performed significantly better than other women on some, but not all, tasks; on no task did women receiving estrogen score significantly worse. The largest group difference was on the Boston Naming Test, a semantic memory task previously shown to be more impaired in women with Alzheimer's disease than in men with this diagnosis. Of tests considered in a discriminant analysis, the naming task was the only neuropsychological variable to distinguish between the two women's groups. Mean differences between estrogen-treated women and men were small and were not statistically significant. Findings support the hypothesis that estrogen therapy for women with Alzheimer's disease is associated with better cognitive skills and that previously noted gender-associated differences in Alzheimer's disease may reflect a state of acquired estrogen deficiency among women with this disorder.
Guillain-Barr syndrome is a well-defined clinical entity corresponding to primary inflammatory demyelinating lesions of peripheral nerves and spinal roots in the majority of cases seen in Western Europe and North America. Documentation of conduction abnormalities characteristic of demyelination in the context of rapidly developing weakness confirms the clinical diagnosis of acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. These abnormalities include (1) conduction block, (2) markedly prolonged distal latencies, (3) marked slowing of motor conduction velocities, and (4) absent or impersistent F responses. Other abnormalities are of ambiguous significance: (1) low amplitude compound muscle responses, (2) absent sensory nerve potentials, (3) reduction in the maximum EMG recruitment pattern, which may all (1, 2, and 3) indicate conduction block or axonal degeneration, and (4) fibrillation potentials due to breakdown of motor axons, a frequent non-specific effect of primary inflammatory demyelination. A Guillain-Barr variant due to immune-mediated primary axonal degeneration has also been recently described.
Peripheral neuropathies can result from a failure to form or maintain the myelin internode or from autoimmune-mediated demyelination. Several gene defects responsible for the most common inherited human peripheral neuropathies referred to as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease have been reported. These studies identified PMP-22 and connexin-32 as proteins that are essentiel for normal myelination. Point mutations in Po protein, PMP-22, and connexin-32 have been identified as causes of inherited peripheral neuropathies. In addition, studies indicated for the first time that alterations in PMP-22 gene dosage (trisomy and monosomy) can induce inherited peripheral neuropathies. Little is known, however, about how these gene defects cause myelin pathology. This report describes the distributions of proteins within the peripheral myelin internode and discusses how these molecules contribute to the pathogenesis of inherited and autoimmune peripheral neuropathy. A better understanding of the molecular composition of the myelin internode is essential for diagnosis and treatment of human peripheral neuropathies.
Interleukin-1 beta, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and the soluble interleukin-2 receptor were measured in the serum of 34 healthy controls and 48 patients with chronic schizophrenia using ELISA sandwich assays. No differences were found between the controls and patients.
An increase in dopamine D4 receptors has recently been reported in post mortem brain samples from schizophrenics. We have attempted to complement this finding by assessing the levels of the specific messenger RNA (mRNA) for the D4 receptor, using the technique of quantitative RNA-PCR. No significant differences in the levels of expression of mRNA for the D4 receptor were found in the brains from schizophrenics compared to controls. The relationship between D4 receptors and schizophrenia, therefore, remains unclear.
This study was conducted to explore the concerns and coping mechanisms used by patients with head and neck cancer and assess their quality of life. A group of 50 consecutive patients with oral and laryngeal cancers were interviewed using a coping and concerns checklist and a semistructured interview proforma to elicit the common concerns in relation to head and neck cancers and their surgical treatment. The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale was used to detect anxiety and depression. Concerns were compared between oral and laryngeal cancers and between preoperative and postoperative patients. Commonest concerns were about the future (64%), subjective physical evaluation (60%), finances (56%), being upset (54%), communication (54%), current illness (52%) and inability to do things (50%). The commonest coping mechanisms used were helplessness and fatalism. Resolution was noted in less than 40% of the frequent concerns. As compared to laryngeal cancer patients, those with oral cancer significantly more often had concerns about current illness, subjective evaluation of health, eating and chewing, social interactions, pain and disfigurement (P &lt; 0.05). Most subjects had numerous unresolved concerns. Mainly ineffective coping mechanisms such as helplessness and fatalism were employed leading to incomplete resolution. Interventions to minimise these concerns and to handle associated anxiety and depression would improve their quality of life.
Recent neuroanatomical, biochemical, and electrophysiological studies suggest that serotonin (5HT) can modulate dopaminergic function at the level of the cell body and the nerve terminal. The receptor subtypes, regulatory processes, and intracellular transduction mechanisms mediating these interactions remain to be characterized. The potential involvement of cAMP in mediating 5HT-facilitated increases in extracellular levels of striatal dopamine (DA) was assessed using in vivo microdialysis. Local infusion of 0.4 nmol 5HT delivered via probes located in the anterior striata of chloral hydrate-anesthetized male rats significantly increased extracellular DA levels to approximately 700% of basal control levels. Local, intrastriatal infusion of either 2 nmol forskolin, 2 nmol rolipram, 100 nmol isobutylmethylxanthine, or 200 nmol dibutyryl cAMP significantly increased basal DA levels to 28 +/- 3%, 143 +/- 5%, 56 +/- 7%, and 52 +/- 3% above control levels, respectively. Additionally, coperfusion of any of these agents with 5HT significantly decreased the 5HT-facilitory effect on DA release to approximately 50% of observed 5HT controls. The current results suggest a role for the cAMP second-messenger systems in modulating 5HT-facilitated DA release.
Routinely processed, hematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E)-stained slides are typically used to assess the morphologic integrity of the central nervous system in neurotoxicity safety studies. However, the value of special stains for improving neuropathologic evaluations during the assessment of neurotoxicity has been emphasized in the neuroscience literature and by regulatory agencies. The primary objective of the present study was to characterize the spatial and temporal changes in neurons, astrocytes, and microglia after dizocilpine maleate (MK-801)-induced focal neuronal necrosis in the posterior cingulate/retrosplenial (PC/RS) cortex of the rat. A secondary objective was to evaluate the application of special stains and a novel sectioning procedure for detecting neurotoxicity. Sixty adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with sterile water vehicle or 10 mg/kg MK-801 and perfused through the left ventricle (pumped at 65 mm Hg pressure) with 10% neutral buffered formalin or 4% paraformaldehyde at 4 hr and on days 1, 3, 7, 14, and 28 after treatment. For light microscopic evaluation, brain sections were stained with H&amp;E, a special cupric-silver (CS) stain that selectively impregnates degenerating neurons and makes them readily evident, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunohistochemistry for astrocytes, and Griffonia simplicifolia isolectin B4(GSA) histochemistry for microglia. Brains perfusion-fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde were prepared for CS staining with a novel frozen-sectioning procedure for multiple embedding in a composite gelatin block. In H&amp;E sections from treated rats, necrotic nerve cell bodies were observed in PC/RS cortical layers 3 and 4 on days 1, 3, 7, and 14, but not on day 28. These necrotic neurons required high magnification for detection (x20 objective, x10 ocular). In contrast, degenerating neurons selectively stained with CS were observed in the same location as necrotic neurons seen with H&amp;E but at low magnification (x2 objective, x10 ocular). Cupric-silver staining showed details not seen with H&amp;E, including dendritic and axonal degeneration with progressive fragmentation. Beginning on day 3, GFAP immunohistochemistry revealed hypertrophic astrocytes in a diffuse pattern throughout the region of cell body necrosis, a change that persisted throughout the study. However, GSA lectin histochemistry identified a few reactive microglia on day 1 in a multifocal pattern throughout the region of cell body necrosis. Reactive microglia were observed on days 3, 7, and 14, but not on day 28. Glial changes observed with H&amp;E staining were limited to an increase in the cellularity of glial cell nuclei in the area of neuronal necrosis. This study provides a comprehensive and integrated view of the temporal changes occurring in neurons, astrocytes, and microglia during acute neurotoxic injury. Moreover, advantages for using new staining and sectioning methodologies to enhance the toxicologic evaluation of the central nervous system are demonstrated.
Gene targeting to create null mutations in mice is a powerful new tool in biology which will allow the molecular dissection of complex phenotypes such as mammalian brain function, and learning and memory. However, the attempt to interpret the phenotypical changes which arise in null-mutant mice is subject to several caveats. For example, the ability to disrupt a single gene in a targeted manner might lead one to overlook the effects of other genes. Ignoring the genetic background might lead to misinterpretation of results: the present article will demonstrate that the phenotypical abnormalities attributed to the null mutation in several molecular neurobiological studies could simply result from the effects of background genes.

We have employed the tetrode technique, which allows accurate discrimination of individual neuronal spike trains from multiunit recordings, in order to examine the variation of orientation selectivity among local groups of neurons. We recorded a total of 321 cells from 62 sites in area 17 of halothane-anesthetized cats; each site contained between three to ten neurons that were estimated to be less than 65 microns away from the tetrode tip. For each cell, we determined the orientation tuning in response to moving bars. Of the cells tested, 8.4% were unresponsive, 22.7% had no preferential response to any particular orientation, while 68.8% were tuned. The average difference in preferred orientation between cell pairs recorded at the same site was 10.7 deg, but the variance in preferred orientation differences differed significantly among sites. Some clusters of cells exhibited the same or nearly the same orientation preference, while others had orientation preferences that differed by as much as 90 deg. Our data demonstrate that the tuning for orientation is more heterogeneously distributed at a local level than previous studies have suggested.
The luminance of a squarewave grating was modulated in a manner such that every other stripe temporally varied between bright and dark and the intervening stripes had constant luminance. This produces brightness induction in the constant stripes, roughly in antiphase to the luminance modulation. We used this stimulus as a probe to explore the temporal properties of brightness induction and the mechanisms determining perceived brightness. Over a range of spatial frequencies we measured: (1) the highest temporal frequency at which brightness induction occurs; (2) the magnitude of induced brightness; and (3) the temporal phase of the induced brightness modulation. We find that brightness induction ceases with luminance modulation above a cutoff temporal frequency that depends on spatial frequency. The magnitude of induced brightness modulation is greatest at low spatial frequencies and low temporal frequencies. Induced brightness lags behind the luminance modulation and this phase lag increases as spatial frequency decreases. All of these findings can be understood as consequences of an induction process that takes longer to complete as the induction region increases in size.
Orthogonal drifting gratings were presented binocularly to alert macaque monkeys in an attempt to find neural correlates of binocular rivalry. Gratings were centered over lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) receptive fields and the corresponding points for the opposite eye. The only task of the monkey was to fixate. We found no difference between the responses of LGN neurons under rivalrous and nonrivalrous conditions, as determined by examining the ratios of their respective power spectra. There was, however, a curious &quot;temporal afterimage&quot; effect in which cell responses continued to be modulated at the drift frequency of the grating for several seconds after the grating disappeared.

Previous work in this laboratory demonstrated that in utero ethanol exposure is associated with abnormal development of the serotonergic system. Specific abnormalities included deficiencies of serotonin (5-HT) and its metabolites, and cortical 5-HT reuptake sites. The concentration of 5-HT1A receptors was also altered. The serotonin deficit was detected in the fetal ethanol-exposed brain, at an age when 5-HT would normally function as an essential trophic factor. Thus, it was hypothesized that the early 5-HT ethanol-associated deficit of an essential trophic factor (e.g. 5-HT) could contribute to subsequent developmental abnormalities in serotonergic neurons. In the present investigation we used quantitative autoradiography (QAR) to more fully characterize the developmental abnormalities in 5-HT reuptake sites in developing offspring of ethanol-fed rats. In addition, we attempted to overcome the potential negative impact of the ethanol-associated deficit of fetal 5-HT, by administering a 5-HT1A agonist, buspirone, to pregnant rats. These investigations demonstrated that postnatal (PN) 19 and/or 35 day ethanol-exposed offspring had a significant decrease in [3H]citalopram binding to 5-HT reuptake sites in the frontal cortex, parietal cortex, lateral hypothalamus, substantia nigra, medial septum, and striatum. In contrast, [3H]citalopram binding was increased in the dorsal raphe on PN5 and in the median raphe on PN19. No significant ethanol-associated changes were detected in the hippocampus CA3 region or in the amygdala. When [3H]citalopram binding was compared in the offspring of saline- and buspirone-treated dams, it appeared that maternal treatment with buspirone prevented or reversed most of the ethanol-associated developmental abnormalities in 5-HT reuptake sites. Buspirone prevented the decline in binding of [3H]citalopram in the frontal cortex, lateral hypothalamus, substantia nigra and medial septum. Similarly, buspirone treatment prevented the ethanol-associated increase in binding in the dorsal and median raphe. Additional experiments are needed to elucidate the impact of maternal buspirone treatment on the development of other neurotransmitter systems in offspring.
Diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (PP-IP5) and bis(diphospho)inositol tetrakisphosphate (bis-PP-IP4) are recently identified inositol phosphates that possess pyrophosphate bonds. We have purified an inositol hexakisphosphate (IP6) kinase from rat brain supernatants. The pure protein, a monomer of 54 kDa, displays high affinity (Km = 0.7 microM) and selectivity for inositol hexakisphosphate as substrate. It can be dissociated from bis(diphospho)inositol tetrakisphosphate synthetic activity. The purified enzyme transfers a phosphate from PP-IP5 to ADP to form ATP. This ATP synthase activity indicates the high phosphate group transfer potential of PP-IP5 and may represent a physiological role for PP-IP5.
Various compounds that affect signal transduction regulate the relative utilization of alternative processing pathways for the beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta APP) in intact cells, increasing the production of nonamyloidogenic soluble beta APP (s beta APP) and decreasing that of amyloidogenic beta-amyloid peptide. In a recent study directed toward elucidating the mechanisms underlying phorbol ester-stimulated s beta APP secretion from cells, it was demonstrated that protein kinase C increases the formation from the trans-Golgi network (TGN) of beta APP-containing secretory vesicles. Here we present evidence that forskolin increases s beta APP production from intact PC12 cells, and protein kinase A stimulates formation from the TGN of beta APP-containing vesicles. Although protein kinase A and protein kinase C converge at the level of formation from the TGN of beta APP-containing vesicles, additional evidence indicates that the regulatory mechanisms involved are distinct.
The endogenous opioid peptide, enkephalin, and epincphrine are distributed in varicose processes throughout the nucleus locus coeruleus (LC) in the dorsolateral tegmentum of the rat brain. In this brain region, micro-opioid and alpha-2-adrenergic receptors have been shown to share the same potassium channel suggesting that they may be co-localized in the same terminal or that they may be present in terminals that innervate the same target neuron. However, this has not been demonstrated at the ultrastructural level. Thus, the present study combined the immunocytochemical localization of the opioid peptide leucine5-enkephalin (ENK) and the epinephrine synthesizing enzyme, phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PNMT) in the same section of tissue within the LC at the electron microscopic level. At the light microscopic level, both ENK and PNMT varicose processes were dense and overlapped the region known to contain the noradrenergic cell bodies and dendrites of the LC. However, the morphological features of the two immunolabeled fiber types appeared different in 30-microns thick coronal sections. PNMT-labeled process were thin, beaded and ramified within the coronal plane. ENK-immunoreactive fibers, however, were more punctate in appearance and processes joining these puncta were not often evident in the frontal plane examined. Varicose fibers immunolabeled for either ENK or PNMT were confirmed to be axons and axon terminals by electron microscopy. Both types contained small clear as well as large dense core vesicles and formed heterogeneous types of synaptic specializations with postsynaptic targets. A common feature encountered in dually labeled tissue sections was convergence of the separately labeled axon terminals on common targets. Another common feature was the apposition of PNMT-labeled axon terminals with ENK-immunoreactive axon terminals that formed synaptic contacts in the plane of section examined. Although numerous ENK and PNMT-labeled axon terminals were identified in similar regions of the neuropil, few terminals were found to contain both labels. These findings indicate that the opioid peptide ENK and epinephrine may elicit concerted actions on common noradrenergic neurons in the LC via separate sets of afferents.
The recently discovered neuropeptide nociceptin was found to inhibit electrically induced contractions of the mouse vas deferens. Nociceptin and its 14-Tyr analog were each partial agonists, but with high affinity (ED50 of 20 nM). This activity was not opioid in nature, as it was not inhibited by either selective or non-selective opiate antagonists.
We studied the effect of glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), kainate or K+ depolarization, on neurotoxicity in cultured chick retinal cells, under conditions in which we could discriminate between Ca2+ entering through ionotropic glutamate receptors and voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels (VSCCs). When neurons were challenged with NMDA, kainate or glutamate, in Na(+)-containing medium, a decrease in cell survival was observed, whereas K+ depolarization did not affect the viability of the cells. The Mg2+ ion completely prevented the toxic effect mediated by the NMDA receptor, and had a small but significant protective effect at the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid/kainate (AMPA/kainate) receptor-induced cell death. We observed that, in a Na(+)-free N-methyl-D-glucamine (NMG) medium, to avoid the activation of VSCCs indirectly by the glutamate receptor agonists, stimulation of the glutamate receptors causes Ca2+ influx only through NMDA and AMPA/kainate receptor-associated channels, and that Ca2+ entry correlates well with subsequent cell death. These results show that the activation of NMDA or AMPA/kainate receptors can cause excitotoxicity in retinal neurons by mechanisms not involving Na+ influx, but rather depending on the permeation of Ca2+ through glutamate receptor-associated channels. For small Ca2+ loads the entry of Ca2+ through the NMDA receptor-associated channel was more efficient in triggering cell death than the influx of Ca2+ through the AMPA/kainate receptor.
Previous studies have shown that cocaine and amphetamine stimulate acetylcholine release in the hippocampus via an action of endogenously released dopamine on dopamine D1 and D2 receptors. The present study was aimed at clarifying if the property of stimulating hippocampal acetylcholine release was shared by morphine. The acute administration of morphine (10 mg/kg i.p.) failed to modify acetylcholine release in the hippocampus. However, after repeated administration (10 mg/kg i.p. twice daily) morphine acquired the ability to stimulate hippocampal acetylcholine release. Thus, at days 5 and 7 of chronic morphine treatment, a challenge dose of morphine (10 mg/kg i.p.) increased acetylcholine release by 50 and 100%, respectively. Concomitantly with the development of the stimulant property on acetylcholine release, morphine also acquired that of producing behavioural stimulation and lost that of producing sedation and catalepsy. The morphine-induced increase in acetylcholine output was suppressed by the blockade of dopamine D1 receptors with SCH 23390 (R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4, 5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine) (0.1 mg/kg s.c.), which also suppressed the morphine-induced motor stimulation. Moreover, repeated morphine administration markedly potentiated the stimulant effect of the dopamine D1/D2 receptor agonist apomorphine (R(-)-10, 11-dihydroxyaporphine) (0.1 or 0.5 mg/kg s.c.) both on hippocampal acetylcholine release and on behaviour. These results may suggest that the enhancement of hippocampal acetylcholine release as well as the development of behavioural sensitisation after chronic morphine could be related to the development of dopamine receptor supersensitivity. Moreover, increased acetylcholine transmission in the hippocampus may play a role in the 'memory' of the rewarding effects of drugs of abuse.
We cloned the guanylate cyclase activating proteins, GCAP1 and GCAP2, from chicken retina and examined their expression in normal and predegenerate rdlrd chicken retina. Northern analyses show that the amounts of the single transcripts encoding GCAP1 and GCAP2 are reduced to about 70% of normal levels in rdlrd retina. Western analyses reveal that GCAP2 levels appear normal in this retina, while GCAP1 levels are reduced by more than 90%. The specific downregulation of GCAP1 in rdlrd retina is consistent with a model for this disease in which activation of guanylate cyclase in the photoreceptors is abnormal, resulting in low levels of cGMP and an absence of phototransduction.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type glutamate receptors are constituted of one obligatory subunit (NR1), expressed as eight splice variants, combined with one or more of four NMDAR2 subunits. Polyclonal antibodies were produced to an N-terminal domain of the NR1 subunit that recognize all eight splice variants. The antibody was used to localize NR1 in the trigeminal pathway to barrel field cortex in rats. The distribution and density of NR1 changes between birth (postnatal day 0 = P-0) and P-360. The trigeminal nuclei already contain a high level of NR1 immunoreactivity on the day of birth. The ventral posterior lateral, ventral posterior medial, and posterior nucleus, medial division, thalamic nuclei show fluctuations in NR1 immunoreactivity levels, starting at birth with moderate densities in neuropil which decrease at P-7, and peak again in neuronal cell bodies as well as the neuropil at P-21. In the cortex, the density of NR1 in layer VI fluctuates with low points at P-7 and P-40. Superficial cortical layers I, II, and III reach adult levels at P-14 and remain high. NR1 levels decrease sharply in layer IV just prior to P-40 and then slowly recover over the next 3 months to stabilize at moderate levels in the adult. In addition to neuronal expression there is a transient high level of labeling in glial cells with a peak density of staining at P-21. The results emphasize that NR1 subunit expression is finely regulated in rat somatic sensory pathways for periods as long as 7-8 weeks after birth in the barrel field cortex.

Previously we showed that interleukin 1 beta stimulates the conversion of sphingomyelin to ceramide in the caveolae fraction of normal human fibroblasts. The ceramide, in turn, blocked platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) stimulated DNA synthesis. We now present evidence that the PDGF receptor initiates signal transduction from caveolae. Cell fractionation and immunocytochemistry show caveolae to be the principal location of PDGF receptors at the cell surface. Multiple caveolae proteins acquire phosphotyrosine when PDGF binds to its receptor, but the hormone appears to have little effect on the tyrosine phosphorylation of non-caveolae membrane proteins. Five proteins known to interact with the phosphorylated receptor were found to be highly enriched in caveolae membrane. PDGF caused the concentration of three of these proteins to significantly increase in the caveolae fraction. Finally, PDGF stimulated the association of a 190-kDa phosphoprotein with the caveolae marker protein, caveolin. Therefore, ceramide may modulate PDGF receptor function directly in caveolae.
The circadian clock in mammals is located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN). There is evidence that changes in gene expression are central to its mechanism. We are engaged in identifying the genes involved. The small size of the SCN, the large number of mammalian genes and the need to identify those differentially expressed over 24 h have required novel experimental procedures. mRNA differential display and an improved tissue micropunching method have been used to examine temporal changes in gene expression in the SCN of rats maintained in constant darkness. Several of the displayed cDNA species were found to be differentially expressed; they show no homology with published sequences. Riboprobes of these cDNA species were used for in situ hybridization. Emulsion-dipped sections confirmed that at least two of these differentially displayed mRNAs are expressed in a circadian manner.
The distribution of Na+/MYO-inositol co-transporter (SMIT) mRNA in the rat brain was studied by in situ hybridization histochemistry. The highest levels of SMIT mRNA were observed in the choroid plexus. Intense hybridization signals were found in the pineal gland, the area postrema, the hippocampus, the locus coeruleus, the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the olfactory bulb and the Purkinje cell and granule cell layers of the cerebellum. Low to moderate levels of labelling were detected in almost all neurones and small glia-like cells throughout the brain. These results suggest that almost all cells in the brain possess an SMIT-mediated osmotic and ionic regulatory system, and uneven densities of positive SMIT mRNA signals may reflect the differences in sensitivity of the cells to osmotic and ionic changes and also reflect differences in permeability of capillaries.
An in vitro electrophysiological approach allowed the localization of the spinal respiratory generator (sRG) within the cervical cord of newborn rats. Rostral and caudal limits were determined through transections of the successive spinal segments. The sRG is mainly located in the C5 segment with a partial extension in the C4 and C6 segments. The presence of two lateralized sRG was found after a split of the brain stem cervical cord from T8 to C1. Spinal respiratory activity could be kept synchronous after this split in the right and left halves of the spinal cord. This spinal activity also displayed a bilateral synchrony on separated spinal cord preparations after a C1 transection with no split. These findings are the first attempt to localize the sRG and are discussed in terms of bilateral segmental coupling and of interactions between the medullary and the spinal respiratory generators.
Choroid plexus is the major source of cerebrospinal fluid. The hemodynamics and secretory function of this tissue are controlled by multiple endocrine and neural mechanisms. Nitric oxide (NO) has been demonstrated to play an important role in regulating choroidal blood flow. In the present study, performed on adult male Sprague-Dawley rats, we employed a NADPH-diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemical method to localize nitrergic innervation of choroidal blood vessels. This approach was based on previous observations that NADPH-d colocalizes with NO synthase, a synthetic enzyme for NO, in the central and peripheral nervous systems. NADPH-d-positive nerve fibers were found to accompany both large arteries and veins and blood microvessels (possibly arterioles) located in choroidal stroma. NADPH-d reaction product was also localized to the vascular endothelial lining and choroidal epithelial cells. All the above sources of NO may play important roles in the regulation of secretory and hemodynamic functions of the choroid plexus.
A two-color immunoperoxidase technique was used to investigate the localization of GluR1 and GluR2/3 alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole (AMPA) glutamate receptor subunits in subpopulations of non-pyramidal neurons in the rat basolateral amygdala. Antibodies to neuropeptide Y (NPY), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), and calcium binding proteins were used to mark three distinct subsets of non-pyramidal cells. Only non-pyramidal neurons containing the calcium binding proteins parvalbumin (PV) and calbindin D-28k (CB) exhibited robust GluR1-like immunoreactivity (GluR1-ir). Light GluR1-ir was observed in some neurons with NPY-ir and VIP-ir, as well as in some pyramidal cells. Only pyramidal cells exhibited robust GluR2/3-ir. No significant amount of GluR2/3-ir was seen in any of the three main classes of non-pyramidal cells. These findings indicate that in the rat basolateral amygdala GluR2/3-ir is found primarily in pyramidal neurons whereas GluR1-ir is found mainly in non-pyramidal neurons that contain PV or CB.
Occluding vision through one eye during a critical period in early life nearly abolishes responses to that eye in visual cortex. This phenomenon is mimicked by long-term depression of synaptic transmission in vitro, which may require metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and is age-dependent. Peaks in mGluR expression and glutamate-stimulated phosphoinositide turnover during visual cortical development have been proposed as biochemical bases for the critical period. Pharmacological blockade of mGluRs specifically prevented synapse weakening in mouse visual cortical slices but did not alter kitten ocular dominance plasticity in vivo. Thus, a heightened mGluR response does not account for the critical period in development.
In the mouse osteoblastic cell line MC3T3-E1, the signaling responses of several DNA-binding proteins induced by the treatment of neurotrophin-3 were examined using electrophoretic mobility shift assay. Neurotrophin-3 increased binding activities in nuclear extracts of MC3T3-E1 cells to TPA-responsive element (TRE), cyclic AMP-responsive element (CRE) and serum-responsive element (SRE), but not binding activity in the nuclear extracts to c-Myc binding DNA element. Competition experiments revealed that the binding activity to TRE in the nuclear extracts of neurotrophin-3-treated MC3T3-E1 cells was entirely inhibited by the both unlabeled TRE and CRE probes. On the other hand, the binding activity to CRE was abolished by the unlabeled CRE probe but not by the same amount of unlabeled TRE probe. Moreover, immunodepletion/supershift assay using antibodies directed to Fos, Jun and CREB proteins, showed that the binding activities to TRE and CRE in the nuclear extracts were derived in part from these proteins.
Adrenomedullin is a novel hypotensive adrenal polypeptide originally isolated from a human pheochromocytoma and is structurally related to calcitonin gene-related peptide and islet amyloid polypeptide. Using immunocytochemistry, the occurrence of adrenomedullin in the adrenal gland and gastro-entero-pancreatic region in the rat was examined and its effect on insulin secretion from isolated rat islets was determined. Adrenomedullin-like immunoreactivity occurred in noradrenaline- and adrenaline-producing cells in the adrenal gland. Gastrointestinal endocrine cells, with increased density distally, displayed adrenomedullin-like immunoreactivity; these cells constituted a subpopulation of the enterochromaffin (serotonin-containing) cells. Co-localization of adrenomedullin with somatostatin, glicentin, gastrin/cholecystokinin, peptide YY or islet amyloid polypeptide was not encountered. Adrenomedullin-immunoreactive cells were not observed in the pancreatic islets. At 1, 10 and 100 nmol/l, adrenomedullin stimulated insulin release from isolated rat islets in the presence of 3.3 mmol/l glucose (P &lt; 0.05) and at 100 nmol/l, the peptide potentiated insulin secretion also in the presence of 8.3 mmol/l glucose (P &lt; 0.05). These findings suggest that, besides being an adrenal hypotensive peptide, adrenomedullin may be a gut hormone with a potential insulinotropic function.
Microinjection of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA, 300 ng/3 microliters) into the left lateral ventricle causes a substantial increase in locomotor activity which can be significantly reduced by a chronic pretreatment with the ACTH(4-9) analogue ORG 2766(1 microgram/0.5 ml saline, subcutaneous (s.c.) every day for 7 days, last injection 24 h before the NMDA-injection). A single dose of ORG 2766 (1 ng/1 microliter) injected into the left central amygdaloid nucleus 30 min before the NMDA-injection was equally effective in reducing the increase in locomotion. Furthermore it counteracted the predominance of contralateral turning induced by the NMDA-injection. The data give support for the idea that ORG 2766 excerts its effects on behavior and neural recovery by modulating NMDA receptor activity in the brain.
Ischemic-reperfusion injury in humans occurs in conditions such as stroke, cardiac arrest, subarachnoid hemorrhage or head trauma. Maximal tissue damage is observed during reperfusion, which is primarily attributed to oxidative injury resulting from production of oxygen free radicals. One of the major consequences of such damage is the depletion of the cellular antioxidant, glutathione (GSH) leading to oxidation of protein thiols to disulfides and the loss of activity of critical enzymes having active thiol group(s). Thus, the maintenance of thiol homeostasis is an important factor in cell survival. The effect of thiol antioxidants like alpha-lipoic acid and the isopropyl ester of GSH was examined on the morbidity and mortality of rats subjected to reperfusion following cerebral ischemia induced by bilateral carotid artery occlusion and hypotension. While the GSH isopropyl ester had no significant protective effect; after pretreatment of rats, alpha-lipoic acid was detected in the rat brain and it dramatically reduced the mortality rate from 78% to 26% during 24 h of reperfusion. The natural thiol antioxidant, alpha-lipoic acid is effective in improving survival and protecting the rat brain against reperfusion injury following cerebral ischemia.
In the neonatal rat spinal cord in vitro prolonged inhibition of dorsal root to ventral root reflexes was achieved by electrical stimulation of an adjacent ipsilateral dorsal root. This prolonged inhibition lasted in excess of 1 s. An early phase of the prolonged inhibition was reduced by the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline methochloride with a concomitant reduction of dorsal root potentials which are an indication of primary afferent depolarisation. A longer latency and duration component of prolonged inhibition could be blocked by the selective GABAB receptor antagonist CGP56999A and therefore appeared to be mediated by baclofen-sensitive GABAB receptors. This GABAB receptor antagonist did not reduce dorsal root potentials suggesting that the component of prolonged inhibition mediated by GABAB receptors did not involve primary afferent depolarisation.
The effects of 10 mM HEPES (N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N-2-ethanesulfonic acid) buffered artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) on membrane potential and the action potential were studied in 93 dorsal vagal motoneurones (DVMs) using an in vitro slice preparation of the rat medulla. Changing from bicarbonate/CO2 aCSF to HEPES aCSF resulted in a depolarisation of 6.0 +/- 0.6 mV and an increase in input resistance (RIn; n = 61). In the presence of 5 mM 4-AP, HEPES either had little effect (n = 9) or hyperpolarised the membrane (n = 10). Mn2+ (3 mM) or Ni2+ (200 microM) abolished the hyperpolarisation and its associated increase in RIn. In voltage-clamp studies 5 mM 4-AP eliminated a transient outward current and Ni2+ blocked an inactivating inward current. It is concluded that HEPES buffer reduces the contribution of the A current to resting membrane potential and also reduces a Ni(2+)-sensitive transient ICa.
Morphine-dependent rats were divided into two subgroups. The first was allowed to develop a spontaneous withdrawal syndrome which was still present 33 h after the last morphine administration. The second subgroup received five injections of naltrexone. While the first two injections of naltrexone precipitated a marked somatic withdrawal syndrome, subsequent naltrexone failed to worsen the somatic signs. 24 h after the last morphine administration, naltrexone was completely ineffective. It is concluded that naltrexone shortens the duration of the morphine somatic withdrawal signs in dependent rats.
Systemic administration of the 5-HT2c receptor antagonist, normethylclozapine, to previously untreated unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats elicits rotations contraversive to the lesion when given with a subthreshold dose of the dopamine D2 receptor agonist, quinpirole. Normethylclozapine alone does not possess any anti-parkinsonian action. In animals which have previously received dopamine replacement therapy, i.e. primed, normethylclozapine potentiates the contraversive rotations induced by quinpirole. We speculate that these actions may result from reduced excitation of the output regions of the basal ganglia. 5-HT2c receptor antagonists may have potential as treatment for Parkinson's disease in combination with dopamine receptor agonists.
The aim of this study was to determine the effect of metoclopramide on the sympathetic nervous system. Muscle sympathetic nerve activity was increased in two stages after metoclopramide injection. The initial increase in sympathetic nerve activity may result from the unloading of arterial baroreceptors because there was a negative correlation between mean blood pressure and muscle sympathetic nerve activity. The later increase in muscle sympathetic nerve activity may be attributed to the central activation of the sympathetic nervous system because there was a positive correlation between mean blood pressure and muscle sympathetic nerve activity. These results suggest that metoclopramide activates the sympathetic nervous system by two different mechanisms.
We have studied the expression, distribution and function of receptors for the sensory neurotransmitters, substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the dilator muscle and arterioles of the rat iris. Immunohistochemical studies showed that the sensory fibres containing these peptides are distributed throughout the connective tissue stroma of the iris and in association with the larger arterioles, but do not come into close association with the dilator muscle cells. Using reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction, we have shown that both NK1 and NK3 receptor message is expressed by iris tissue, comprising both dilator muscle and stromal tissue. Binding sites for the NK1 agonist, [Sar9, Met(O2)11]-substance P (SarSP), and for CGRP are confined to the stromal layer and to the larger arterioles within that layer and do not appear to be associated with the dilator muscle itself. Application of either SarSP or CGRP produced both a vasodilatation and an inhibition of sympathetic nerve-induced vasoconstriction of the larger arterioles. Neither SarSP nor CGRP altered the resting tone of the dilator nor were they capable of modulating the contractions due to sympathetic nervous activity. These results suggest that the sensory fibres perform an efferent role in the larger irideal arterioles while their presence in the irideal stroma appears not to modulate the activity of the dilator muscle.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of protein-tyrosine kinase (PTK) and protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) inhibitors on Ca2+ channels in GH3 cells. The activity of Ca2+ channels was monitored either by single-cell microfluorometry or by the whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique. Genistein (20-200 micron) and herbimycin A (1-15 micron) inhibited [Ca2+]i rise induced either by 55 mM K+ or 10 micron Bay K 8644. In addition, genistein and lavendustin A inhibited whole-cell Ba2+ currents. By contrast, daidzein, a genistein analogue devoid of PTK inhibitory properties, did not modify Ca2+ channel activity. The inhibitory action of genistein on the [Ca2+]i increase was completely counteracted by the PTP inhibitor vanadate (100 micron). Furthermore, vanadate alone potentiated -Ca2+-i response to both 55 mM K+ and 10 micron Bay K 8644. The possibility that genistein could decrease the [Ca2+]i elevation by enhancing Ca2+ removal from the cytosol seems unlikely since genistein also reduced the increase in fura-2 fluorescence ratio induced by Ba2+, a cation that enters into the cells through Ca2+ channels but cannot be pumped out by Ca2+ extrusion mechanisms. Finally, in unstimulated GH3 cells, genistein caused a decline of [Ca2+]i and the disappearance of [Ca2+]i oscillations, whereas vanadate induced an increase of [Ca2+]i and the appearance of [Ca2+]i oscillations in otherwise non-oscillating cells. The present results suggest that in GH3 cells PTK activation causes an increase of L-type Ca2+ channel function, whereas PTPs exert an inhibitory role.
Antagonistic interactions between adenosine A2a and dopamine D2 receptors and between adenosine A1 and dopamine D1 receptors have been previously found in the basal ganglia. Those interactions have been proposed to be key mechanisms of action responsible for the motor depressant effects of adenosine agonists and the motor activating effects of adenosine antagonists, like caffeine. By using quantitative receptor autoradiography, the selective adenosine A1 receptor agonist N6-cyclopentyladenosine was found to decrease the affinity of dopamine D1 receptors for the specific D1 antagonist [(125)I]SCH 23982 in both the nucleus accumbens and the medial prefrontal cortex of the rat brain. The present results suggest that dopamine neurotransmission, through an A1-D1 interaction, might also he involved in the behavioural effects of adenosine agonists and antagonists not related to motor activity, like the sedative-hypnogenic properties of adenosine analogues and the psychostimulant effects of caffeine.
One of the challenges of restorative neuronal transplantation in the CNS of mammals is the appropriate integration of grafted cells in the host circuitry. One key parameter is the specific influence of grafted cells upon corresponding receptors. In order to test this issue on the lesioned spinal cord of adult rats, two models of spinal cord denervation were used: the first one consisted of a complete transection 1 week prior to an intraspinal transplantation of embryonic locus coeruleus (LC) primordia cell suspension; the second one was a chemical destruction of the spinal noradrenergic (NA) system 1 month prior to a similar transplantation. Five weeks after transplantation, spinal sections were processed for autoradiographic quantification of alpha 2-adrenoceptor binding sites densities. In most regions, alpha 2-adrenoceptor densities remained comparable or higher than before graft; interestingly, in lumbar dorsal horn, lumbar intermediate zone and sacral distal dorsal horn of transected-grafted rats, they returned to control level. Results are discussed in relation to the parallel study performed concerning alpha 1-adrenoceptors.
When different images are presented to the two eyes, they compete for perceptual dominance, such that one image is visible while the other is suppressed. This binocular rivalry is thought to reflect competition between monocular neurons within the primary visual cortex. However, neurons whose activity correlates with perception during rivalry are found mainly in higher cortical areas, and respond to input from both eyes. Thus rivalry may involve competition between alternative perceptual interpretations at a higher level of analysis. To investigate this, we tested the effect of rapidly alternating the rival stimuli between the two eyes. Under these conditions, the perceptual alternations exhibit the same temporal dynamics as with static patterns, and a single phase of perceptual dominance can span multiple alternations of the stimuli. Thus neural representations of the two stimuli compete for visual awareness independently of the eye through which they reach the higher visual areas. This finding places binocular rivalry in the general category of multistable phenomena, such as ambiguous figures, and provides a new way to study the neural cause and resolution of perceptual ambiguities.
The ability of neurotrophins to modulate the survival and differentiation of neuronal populations involves the Trk/MAP (mitogen-activated protein kinase) kinase signaling pathway. More recently, neurotrophins have also been shown to regulate synaptic transmission. The synapsins are a family of neuron-specific phosphoproteins that play a role in regulation of neurotransmitter release, in axonal elongation, and in formation and maintenance of synaptic contacts. We report here that synapsin I is a downstream effector for the neurotrophin/Trk/MAP kinase cascade. Using purified components, we show that MAP kinase stoichiometrically phosphorylated synapsin I at three sites (Ser-62, Ser-67, and Ser-549). Phosphorylation of these sites was detected in rat brain homogenates, in cultured cerebrocortical neurons, and in isolated presynaptic terminals. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor upregulated phosphorylation of synapsin I at MAP kinase-dependent sites in intact cerebrocortical neurons and PC12 cells, respectively, while KCl- induced depolarization of cultured neurons decreased the phosphorylation state at these sites. MAP kinase-dependent phosphorylation of synapsin I significantly reduced its ability to promote G-actin polymerization and to bundle actin filaments. The results suggest that MAP kinase-dependent phosphorylation of synapsin I may contribute to the modulation of synaptic plasticity by neurotrophins and by other signaling pathways that converge at the level of MAP kinase activation.
In the cerebral cortex, the small volume of the extracellular space in relation to the volume enclosed by synapses suggests an important functional role for this relationship. It is well known that there are atoms and molecules in the extracellular space that are absolutely necessary for synapses to function (e.g., calcium). I propose here the hypothesis that the rapid shift of these atoms and molecules from extracellular to intrasynaptic compartments represents the consumption of a shared, limited resource available to local volumes of neural tissue. Such consumption results in a dramatic competition among synapses for resources necessary for their function. In this paper, I explore a theory in which this resource consumption plays a critical role in the way local volumes of neural tissue operate. On short time scales, this principle of resource consumption permits a tissue volume to choose those synapses that function in a particular context and thereby helps to integrate the many neural signals that impinge on a tissue volume at any given moment. On longer time scales, the same principle aids in the stable storage and recall of information. The theory provides one framework for understanding how cerebral cortical tissue volumes integrate, attend to, store, and recall information. In this account, the capacity of neural tissue to attend to stimuli is intimately tied to the way tissue volumes are organized at fine spatial scales.
We have previously derived a theoretical measure of neural complexity (CN) in an attempt to characterize functional connectivity in the brain. CN measures the amount and heterogeneity of statistical correlations within a neural system in terms of the mutual information between subsets of its units. CN was initially used to characterize the functional connectivity of a neural system isolated from the environment. In the present paper, we introduce a related statistical measure, matching complexity (CM), which reflects the change in CN that occurs after a neural system receives signals from the environment. CM measures how well the ensemble of intrinsic correlations within a neural system fits the statistical structure of the sensory input. We show that CM is low when the intrinsic connectivity of a simulated cortical area is randomly organized. Conversely, CM is high when the intrinsic connectivity is modified so as to differentially amplify those intrinsic correlations that happen to be enhanced by sensory input. When the input is represented by an individual stimulus, a positive value of CM indicates that the limited mutual information between sensory sheets sampling the stimulus and the rest of the brain triggers a large increase in the mutual information between many functionally specialized subsets within the brain. In this way, a complex brain can deal with context and go &quot;beyond the information given.&quot;
The increased prevalence of multidrug-resistant bacterial pathogens motivated us to attempt to enhance the therapeutic efficacy of bacteriophages. The therapeutic application of phages as antibacterial agents was impeded by several factors: (i) the failure to recognize the relatively narrow host range of phages; (ii) the presence of toxins in crude phage lysates; and (iii) a lack of appreciation for the capacity of mammalian host defense systems, particularly the organs of the reticuloendothelial system, to remove phage particles from the circulatory system. In our studies involving bacteremic mice, the problem of the narrow host range of phage was dealt with by using selected bacterial strains and virulent phage specific for them. Toxin levels were diminished by purifying phage preparations. To reduce phage elimination by the host defense system, we developed a serial-passage technique in mice to select for phage mutants able to remain in the circulatory system for longer periods of time. By this approach we isolated long-circulating mutants of Escherichia coli phage lambda and of Salmonella typhimurium phage P22. We demonstrated that the long-circulating lambda mutants also have greater capability as antibacterial agents than the corresponding parental strain in animals infected with lethal doses of bacteria. Comparison of the parental and mutant lambda capsid proteins revealed that the relevant mutation altered the major phage head protein E. The use of toxin-free, bacteria-specific phage strains, combined with the serial-passage technique, may provide insights for developing phage into therapeutically effective antibacterial agents.



We examined the role of protein kinase C alpha (PKC alpha ) in the stimulation of DNA synthesis of Swiss 3T3 cells induced by bombesin, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA). We found that cells in which this kinase had been down-regulated showed a partially abrogated mitogenic response to bombesin. The response to PDGF was unaltered; however, the response to PMA was completely suppressed. The mitogenic effect of maximal doses of bombesin and PMA combined was greater than that of either agent alone, suggesting that bombesin does not fully activate the PKC pathway. Accordingly, bombesin-induced PKC alpha translocation from cytosol to membranes was partial, while that observed with PMA was essentially complete. Moreover, exposure to Ro-31-8220, a PKC inhibitor, had significantly greater effects on the response to PMA than on that to bombesin. Our findings point out different roles that PKC alpha may play in diversely activated cells: while, in the case of PMA, stimulation of this kinase may be necessary and sufficient to induce proliferation, it appears to be necessary only for a full response to bombesin, and redundant among the mechanisms triggered by PDGF.
A subgroup of approximately 25% of dorsal raphe nucleus serotonergic neurons in cat was strongly activated in association with oral-buccal movements, such as chewing, licking, and grooming. The mean magnitude of increase in neuronal activity for these cells was approximately 100% above the spontaneous waking level. However, some of these cells were activated by as much as 200-300%. The neuronal activation frequently preceded the initiation of the movement and stopped abruptly in association with either pauses in the motor sequence or with its cessation. Most of the neurons in this subgroup were also strongly and preferentially activated by somatosensory stimuli applied to the head, neck, and face. During orientation to a strong or novel stimulus, the activity of these neurons fell silent for periods of 1-5 s. These data and results from our previous studies of medullary raphe neurons are discussed within the context of the general role of serotonin in tonic and central pattern generator-related motor activity.
Whole-cell patch-clamp recording of GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were made in ventral horn neurons of neonatal rat lumbar spinal cord in slice. In contrast to the hippocampus where paired pulse depression is reported to be observed for GABAergic IPSCs, double pulse stimulation of GABAergic inputs resulted in enhancement in the amplitude of the second IPSC in the spinal ventral horn. The facilitation ratio was decreased during enhanced synaptic transmission by increasing Ca2+ concentration in the external recording solution. Baclofen and adenosine. which are reported to depress synaptic transmission by presynaptic mechanisms, depressed IPSCs and increased the facilitation ratio. A postsynaptic manipulation such as application of bicuculline or changing the driving force did not affect the facilitation ratio. These results suggest that paired pulse facilitation of GABAergic IPSCs observed in neonatal rat spinal ventral horn appears to be based upon a mechanism similar to that underlying frequency-dependent facilitation of excitatory synaptic transmission, and is sensitive to presynaptic changes in synaptic strength.
The medial amygdala is known to powerfully suppress predatory attack behavior elicited by electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus of the cat. In the preceding paper, it was shown that the initial limb of a pathway subserving suppression of predatory attack from the medial amygdala to the lateral hypothalamus projects to the ventromedial hypothalamus and its functions are mediated by substance P. The present study tested the hypothesis that the second limb of the pathway subserving medial amygdaloid suppression of predatory attack behavior projects from the medial to lateral hypothalamus and its functions are mediated by GABA. Cannula electrodes were implanted into the lateral hypothalamus for elicitation of predatory attack behavior as well as for the microinfusion of GABA compounds. Monopolar stimulating electrodes were implanted into sites within the medial amygdala from which subseizure levels of stimulation could suppress predatory attack behavior. Initially, the effects of dual stimulation of the medial amygdala and lateral hypothalamus upon response latencies for predatory attack were compared with single stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus alone. Dual stimulation was shown to significantly suppress predatory attack elicited from the lateral hypothalamus. Then, the GABAA receptor antagonist, bicuculline, was microinjected into sites within the lateral hypothalamus from which predatory attack was elicited in doses of 0.015, 0.075 and 0.15 nmol and paired trials of single and dual stimulation were again repeated in a manner identical to that applied prior to drug administration. Drug infusion produced a blockade of medial amygdaloid suppression of predatory attack in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Conversely, microinfusions of the GABAA receptor agonist, muscimol (10, 25 and 50 pmol), into the same lateral hypothalamic 'attack' site in the absence of medial amygdaloid stimulation suppressed predatory attack, thus simulating the effects of medial amygdaloid stimulation. Furthermore, pretreatment with bicuculline microinjected into the lateral hypothalamus blocked the suppressive effects of substance P, that was infused into the ventromedial hypothalamus, upon predatory attack. Receptor autoradiography demonstrated the presence of high affinity binding for GABAA receptors in the lateral hypothalamus. A combination of immunocytochemical and retrograde axonal tract tracing procedures, in which Fluoro-Gold was microinjected into the lateral hypothalamic attack sites, revealed the presence of populations of neurons labeled for both Fluoro-Gold and GABA in the ventromedial hypothalamus. These findings provide new evidence for the existence of a pathway from the medial to lateral hypothalamus whose functions are mediated by GABA. Thus, the overall findings provide support for the view that the pathway from the medial amygdala to the lateral hypothalamus underlying suppression of predatory attack behavior involves a two-neuronal arc: the first neuron projects from the medial amygdala to the medial hypothalamus and its functions are mediated by substance P: the second neuron involves a GABAergic pathway originating in the ventromedial hypothalamus and which projects to the lateral hypothalamus.
The medial amygdala is known to powerfully suppress predatory attack behavior in the cat, but the mechanisms underlying such modulation remain unknown. The present study tested the hypothesis that medial amygdaloid suppression of predatory attack is mediated, in part, by a pathway from the medial amygdala to the medial hypothalamus which utilizes substance P as a neurotransmitter. Stimulating electrodes were implanted into the medial amygdala and cannula electrodes were implanted into both the medial and lateral hypothalamus. Predatory attack behavior was elicited by electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus. In the first phase of the study, paired trials compared attack latencies of single stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus with those following dual stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus and medial amygdala. Attack latencies were significantly elevated following dual stimulation of the medial amygdala and lateral hypothalamus. In the second phase of the study, dose and time dependent decreases in response suppression were noted following the infusion of the substance P (NK1) receptor antagonist, CP96.345 (in doses of 0.05, 0.5 and 2.5 nmol) into the medial hypothalamus. In third phase of the study, the effects of microinjections of the substance P receptor agonist, [Sar9.Met(O2)11]-substance P (in doses of 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 nmol), directly into the medial hypothalamus upon lateral hypothalamically elicited predatory attack behavior were determined. Microinfusion of this drug elevated attack response latencies in a dose- and time-dependent manner. In addition, pretreatment with CP96,345 into the medial hypothalamus blocked the suppressive effects of subsequent delivery of [Sar9,Met(O2)11]-substance P into the same medial hypothalamic site. Other parts of the study demonstrated the presence of: (1) high densities of substance P receptors in the ventromedial hypothalamus, and (2) neurons that are positively labeled for substance P that project from the medial amygdala to the ventromedial hypothalamus as demonstrated by retrograde labeling with Fluoro-Gold. These findings provide support for the hypothesis that medial amygdaloid suppression of lateral hypothalamically elicited predatory attack behavior includes a substance P pathway from the medial amygdala to the medial hypothalamus. The findings further suggest that stimulation of the medial amygdala activates substance P receptors in the medial hypothalamus, thus triggering an inhibitory mechanism from the medial to the lateral hypothalamus, resulting in suppression of predatory attack behavior.
The distribution of glutamate receptors in the cerebellar cortex of the rhesus macaque was examined by light microscopic immunocytochemistry using an antibody specific to the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) R1 receptor subunit (i.e. NMDAR1) as well as antibodies specific to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunits (i.e. GluR1, GluR2/3, and GluR4). NMDAR1 immunolabeling was most prevalent in the Purkinje cell perikarya and dendrities, but was also significant in the stellate and basket cells of the granular layer and Golgi cells of the molecular layer. On the other hand, GluRl and GluR4 immunolabeling was concentrated principally in the processes of the Bergmann glia located in the vicinity of the Purkinje cell perikarya. Although GluR2/3 immunolabeling also occurred in these Bergmann glia processes as well as in the Bergmann fibers, it was more pronounced in the Purkinje cell perikarya and dendrites; additionally, significant GluR2/3 labeling was evident in the stellate and basket cells of the molecular layer and medium-size soma of the granular layer (most likely Golgi cells). In situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH), using cRNA probes to NMDAR1. GluR1.GluR2, and GluR3, showed glutamate receptor mRNA distribution patterns consistent with those disclosed in the immunocytochemical study. Furthermore, the ISHH findings suggest that the positive immunocytochemical labeling of Purkinje cells with the GluR2/3 antibody is most likely due to the gene expression of both GluR2 and GluR3 AMPA receptor subtypes. Taken together, the results are potentially important for the elucidation of mechanisms that control aspects of cerebellar function, such as long-term depression.
A panel of somatic cell hybrids carrying a defined set of rearrangements involving chromosome 13 has been used to assign 35 novel gene transcripts regionally. The positions of the chromosome 13 breakpoints in each somatic cell hybrid have previously been defined relative to the Gnthon genetic linkage map. As a result, the position of each gene transcript has been determined relative to both the physical and the genetic linkage maps. Analysis of the distribution of these gene transcripts indicates a slight overrepresentation toward locations on the distal long arm of chromosome 13, with no localizations noted in the 13q22-q31 region. Seven of these novel gene transcripts and the gene encoding small ribonucleoprotein U6 have been mapped to YACs known to contain Gnthon microsatellite markers, thereby providing further sublocalization relative to the genetic map. The positioning the these gene transcripts within the genetic and physical maps provide candidate genes for disease loci that are being mapped to the same intervals on the chromosome.
Neuronal precursor proliferation and axodendritic outgrowth have been regarded as strictly sequential, with process formation presumably beginning after mitotic activity ceases. We now report that sympathetic precursors in vitro often elaborate long neurites before dividing. Of 437 neuroblasts observed in 48 time-lapse recordings, 42 neuroblasts divided. Thirty (71%) of these mitotic neuroblasts had neurites prior to cytokinesis. &quot;Paramitotic&quot; neurites were found to contain microtubules (MTs), indicating that precursors elaborate neuritic cytoskeleton during proliferation. Remarkably, the precise neuritic pattern exhibited by parental neuroblasts was consistently reproduced by daughter cell pairs. Preservation of neuritic morphology occurred through asymmetric division, with individual neurites allocated to specific daughter cells. Paramitotic neurites either remained intact throughout mitosis (12 of 65), or &quot;retracted&quot; into the soma during prophase and then &quot;regrew&quot; within minutes after cytokinesis (53 of 65). &quot;Retraction&quot; and &quot;regrowth&quot; involved resorption of cytoplasm into the soma, then refilling of residual cell membrane, resulting in recapitulation of the parental neurite pattern. Paramitotic neuritogenesis appears to be intrinsically driven, but is responsive to environmental signals. The culture substrate influenced neurite length, but not the response of paramitotic neurites during mitosis or the preservation of neuritic morphology. However, the incidence of neurite-bearing neuroblasts increased from 38 +/- 1.3% to 94 +/- 1.1% with growth factor treatment. The surprisingly high incidence of paramitotic neurites and the fidelity with which patterning was conserved across cell generations raise the possibility that mitotic precursors engage in pathfinding. Our studies suggest a novel link between neurogenesis and cytoarchitectonic patterning.
Converging lines of evidence from rabbits, rats, and humans argue for the crucial involvement of the cerebellum in classical conditioning of the eyeblink/nictitating membrane response in mammals. For example, selective lesions (permanent or reversible) of the cerebellum block both acquisition and retention of eyeblink conditioning. Correspondingly, electrophysiological and brain-imaging studies indicate learning-related plasticity in the cerebellum. The involvement of the cerebellum in eyeblink conditioning is also supported by stimulation studies showing that direct stimulation of the two major afferents to the cerebellum (the mossy fibers emanating from the pontine nucleus and climbing fibers originating from the inferior olive) can substitute for the peripheral conditioned stimulus (CS) and unconditioned stimulus (US), respectively, to yield normal behavioral learning. In the present study, we examined the relative contribution of the cerebellar cortex versus deep nuclei (specifically the interpositus nucleus) in eyeblink learning by using mutant mice deficient of Purkinje cells, the exclusive output neurons of the cerebellar cortex. We report that Purkinje cell degeneration (pcd) mice exhibit a profound impairment in the acquisition of delay eyeblink conditioning in comparison with their wild-type littermates. Nevertheless, the pcd animals did acquire a subnormal level of conditioned eyeblink responses. In contrast, wild-type mice with lesions of the interpositus nucleus were completely unable to learn the conditioned eyeblink response. These results suggest that both cerebellar cortex and deep nuclei are important for normal eyeblink conditioning.
Each region of neocortex receives synaptic input from several thalamic nuclei, but the response properties of thalamocortical pathways may differ. We have studied the frontoparietal (motor and somatosensory) neocortex of the rat and have examined the responses induced by stimulating two convergent thalamocortical projections originating in the ventrolateral (VL) nucleus and ventroposterior lateral (VPL) nucleus. Depth recordings and current-source density (CSD) analysis revealed two primary responses with different laminar and temporal patterns when VL and VPL were stimulated. Single shocks to VL produced a characteristic small current sink in layer V, which strongly enhanced in response to a second pulse delivered within a 50-200 msec interval (i.e., the augmenting response). In contrast, a shock to VPL evoked a large current sink that originated in layer IV, spread strongly into the supragranular layers, and was almost abolished in response to a second pulse at intervals of &lt;200 msec (i.e., the decremental response). Control experiments determined that these responses could not be attributed to the antidromic firing of corticothalamic cells, intrathalamic mechanisms, or anesthesia. Topographic response maps were obtained from a grid of 30 sites across frontoparietal cortex. One shock to VL excited a very limited cortical region, but an augmenting response evoked 50-200 msec later spread at approximately 1 m/sec to synchronize the activity across an area up to 25 times larger. In contrast, a single shock to VPL activated a relatively large area, but the area activated by a second shock delivered within 200 msec was much smaller. We conclude that overlapping thalamocortical projections, originating in different thalamic nuclei, have distinct spatiotemporal response characteristics that may serve the functional specializations of these pathways.
When O1 hybridoma cells, which produce an IgM antigalacto-cerebroside, are implanted into the dorsal columns of 4-8 d rat spinal cord, some of the myelin that subsequently develops in the immediate vicinity displays an abnormal periodicity. The spacings that are seen cluster at approximately 19 nm and 31 nm, roughly two and three times the normal 11 nm spacing. In the expanded sheaths, major dense lines are separated by broad extracellular spaces containing a dense material in which single or double rows of approximately 10 nm circular profiles can be identified, consistent with the &quot;central rings&quot; of IgM molecules. Because IgM is multivalent, it may serve to link adjacent lamellae together in place of intrinsic myelin molecules that normally interact at close range. Extensive direct contact between myelin components of successive myelin lamellae is thus not essential to signal the growth of the oligodendrocyte membrane or the spiral wrapping of that membrane around axons during myelinogenesis, or to stabilize the myelin spiral that forms.
Although microglia-mediated cytotoxicity has been extensively investigated, little is known about the potential microglial role in neuronal and glial support. Characterization of trophin elaboration by microglia and identification of responsive populations may define novel functions. We now report that microglia/brain macrophages express neurotrophins of the nerve growth factor (NGF) gene family in vitro and in vivo, suggesting that these cells promote development and normal function of neurons and glia. Moreover, neurotrophins promote microglial proliferation and phagocytic activity in vitro. We found that microglia express neurotrophins in a region-specific manner and that within any region only subpopulations elaborate trophins. Using an antiserum specific for neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) with the microglial/macrophage marker OX-42 on postnatal day 10 in vivo, double-labeled cells were identified in the cerebral cortex, globus pallidus, and medulla; NT-3 was undetectable in OX-42-positive cells in the ependyma, the external capsule, choroid plexus, and meninges. In contrast, ramified microglia in the adult brain did not exhibit NT-3 immunoreactivity, suggesting developmental regulation of microglial NT-3 expression. In situ hybridization studies on purified microglial cultures confirmed that only subpopulations express the NGF and NT-3 genes, substantiating the existence of microglial heterogeneity. We tentatively conclude that microglial subtypes serve trophic roles in the normal brain, in addition to exerting well documented deleterious actions in illness and injury. Microglia were also responsive to neurotrophins: brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and NT-3 increased [3H]thymidine incorporation in vitro, and NT-3 promoted proliferation. Moreover, NT-3 induced phagocytic activity, suggesting that the factor plays a role in processes associated with cellular activation.
Stimulus-linked RNA and protein synthesis is required for establishment of long-term neuroplasticity. To identify molecular mechanisms underlying long-term neuroplasticity, we have used differential cDNA techniques to clone a novel immediate-early gene (IEG) that is rapidly induced in neurons of the hippocampus and cortex by physiological synaptic activity. Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence indicates homology to members of the pentraxin family of secreted lectins that include C-reactive protein and serum amyloid P component. Regions of homology include an 8 amino acid &quot;pentraxin signature&quot; sequence and a characteristic pentraxin calcium-binding domain. We have termed this gene and the encoded protein Narp (from neuronal activity-regulated pentraxin). Biochemical analyses confirm the presence of a functional signal sequence, and Narp is secreted by transfected COS-1 cells in culture. Additionally, Narp binds to agar matrix in a calcium-dependent manner consistent with the lectin properties of the pentraxin family. When cocultured with Narp-secreting COS-1 cells, neurons of cortical explants exhibit enhanced growth of neuronal dendritic processes. Neurite outgrowth-promoting activity is also observed using partially purified Narp and can be specifically immunodepleted, demonstrating that Narp is the active principle. Narp is fully active at a concentration of approximately 40 ng/ml, indicating a potency similar to known peptide growth factors. Because Narp is rapidly regulated by neuronal activity, its lectin and growth-promoting activities are likely to play role in the modification of cellular properties that underlie long-term plasticity.
1. In anaesthetized rats, extracellular and intracellular recordings were made from 119 respiratory neurones in the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus (RVL) of the medulla oblongata. 2. Two types of active respiratory neurones were detected in RVL: expiratory (E) and pre-inspiratory (Pre-I), based on the relationship between their discharge and that of the phrenic nerve. Some Pre-I but none of the E neurones could be antidromically excited from the C(3)-C(4) level of the spinal cord. 3. E and Pre-I neurones of RVL were excited by stimulation of the arterial chemoreceptors by a close arterial injection of sodium cyanide. The reflex excitation of RVL E neurones was preceded by increased phrenic nerve activity, while the excitation of RVL Pre-I neurones preceded the increases in phrenic nerve activity. 4. The chemoreflex excitation of the two types of RVL respiratory neurones as well as their resting discharge was abolished or significantly depressed by microionophoresis of kynurenate, a wide-spectrum antagonist of excitatory amino acid receptors, while xanthurenate, an inactive analogue of kynurenate, was without effect. 5. In ventilated rats, bilateral microinjection into RVL of kynurenate, but not xanthurenate, abolished resting activity and chemoreflex excitation of phrenic nerve activity, whilst in spontaneously breathing rats, kynurenate microinjection into RVL produced apnea and silenced phrenic nerves. 6. We conclude: (a) chemoreflex excitation of the phrenic nerves is mediated by stimulating Pre-I neurones of RVL by excitatory amino acidergic inputs and (b) RVL Pre-I neurones may directly and/or indirectly excite spinal phrenic motor neurones and hence are involved in inspiratory rhythmogenesis.

Glucose stimulation raises the pHi of pancreatic beta-cells, but the underlying mechanisms are not well understood. We have now investigated the acute effects of metabolizable (glucose and the mitochondrial substrate alpha-ketoisocaproic acid, KIC) and nonmetabolizable (high K+ and the K-ATP channel blocker tolbutamide) insulin secretagogues on the pHi of pancreatic beta-cells isolated from normal mice, as assessed by BCECF fluorescence from single cells or islets in the presence of external bicarbonate. The typical acute effect of glucose (22-30 mM) on the pHi was a fast alkalinization of approximately 0.11 unit, followed by a slower acidification. The relative expression of the alkalinizing and acidifying components was variable, with some cells and islets displaying a predominant alkalinization, others a predominant acidification, and others yet a mixed combination of the two. The initial alkalinization preceded the [Ca2+]i rise associated with the activation of voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels. There was a significant overlap between the glucose-evoked [Ca2+]i rise and the development of the secondary acidification. Depolarization with 30 mM K+ and tolbutamide evoked pronounced [Ca2+]i rises and concomitant cytosolic acidifications. Blocking glucose-induced Ca2+ influx (with 0 Ca2+, nifedipine, or the K-ATP channel agonist diazoxide) suppressed the secondary acidification while having variable effects (potentiation or slight attenuation) on the initial alkalinization. KIC exerted glucose-like effects on the pHi and [Ca2+]i, but the amplitude of the initial alkalinization was about twice as large for KIC relative to glucose. It is concluded that the acute effect of glucose on the pHi of pancreatic beta-cells is biphasic. While the initial cytosolic alkalinization is an immediate consequence of the activation of H+-consuming metabolic steps in the mitochondria, the secondary acidification appears to originate from enhanced Ca2+ turnover in the cytoplasm. The degree of coupling between glucose metabolism and Ca2+ influx as well as the relative efficacies of these processes determines whether the acute pHi response of a beta-cell (or of a tightly coupled multicellular system such as an islet of Langerhans) is predominantly an alkalinization, an acidification, or a mixed proportion of the two.
Polymerization of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) into amyloid fibrils is a critical step in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Here, we show that peptides incorporating a short Abeta fragment (KLVFF; Abeta16-20) can bind full-length Abeta and prevent its assembly into amyloid fibrils. Through alanine substitution, it was demonstrated that amino acids Lys16, Leu17, and Phe20 are critical for binding to Abeta and inhibition of Abeta fibril formation. A mutant Abeta molecule, in which these residues had been substituted, had a markedly reduced capability of forming amyloid fibrils. The present data suggest that residues Abeta16-20 serve as a binding sequence duringA beta polymerization and fibril formation. Moreover, the present KLVFF peptide may serve as a lead compound for the development of peptide and non-peptide agents aimed at inhibiting Abeta amyloidogenesis in vivo.
A method for the simultaneous determination of HEPP (D,L-3-hydroxy-3-ethyl-3-phenylpropionamide), a member of a new homologous series of phenylamide-derivative anticonvulsants, with six other antiepileptic drugs (ethosuximide, primidone, phenobarbital, phenytoin, carbamazepine and clonazepam) in plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography is described. These drugs are extracted from plasma by adding an equal volume of acetonitrile. An aliquot of the extract is then injected on a reversed-phase column with a acetonitrile-methanol-phosphate buffer mobile phase. The total time required for the whole analytical process, including the plasma pretreatment and chromatography, is approximately 30 min. The assay method is simple, rapid and reproducible, and therefore considered suitable for routine use in clinical investigations monitoring HEPP simultaneously with common antiepileptic drugs.
The use of a dipeptide library as the source of a micromolar chemical lead compound for the human tachykinin NK3 receptor is described. The screening of a dipeptide library through a cloned human NK3 receptor binding assay resulted in the identification of Boc(S)Phe(S)PheNH2 (1), which has subsequently been developed, following a 'peptoid' design strategy, into a series of high-affinity NK3 receptor selective antagonists. The structure-activity relationship of the C-terminal portion of this dipeptide lead was first explored and led to the identification of the urea derivative Boc(S)Phe(R)alphaMePheNH(CH2)7NHCONH2 (41, PD157672). This modified dipeptide has a Ke of 7 nM in blocking senktide-induced increases in intracellular calcium levels in human NK3 receptors stably expressed in CHO cells. Subsequent optimization of the N-terminal BocPhe group and the alphaMePhe residue side chain of 41 led to the identification of [S-(R*,S*)]-[2-(2,3-difluorophenyl)-1-methyl-1-[(7-ureidoheptyl)ca r bamoyl]ethyl]carbamic acid 2-methyl-1-phenylpropyl ester (60, PD161182), a non-peptide NK3 receptor selective antagonist. Compound 60 blocks the senktide-evoked increases in intracellular calcium levels in cloned human NK3 receptors stably expressed in CHO cells with Ke of 0.9 nM.
Pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency in the rat exhibits many neuropathological and biochemical similarities to Wernicke's Encephalopathy in human. Activities of constitutive nitric oxide synthase (NOS) were measured in vulnerable (thalamus and cerebellum) and non-vulnerable (hippocampus and striatum) brain regions of pyrithiamine-induced thiamine-deficient rats. NOS activities were significantly decreased in the thalamus (by 26%, P &lt; 0.05) of presymptomatic thiamine-deficient rats compared to pair-fed controls. Following onset of symptoms, in addition to thalamus (-38%, P &lt; 0.01), cerebellum (-50%, P &lt; 0.01) also manifested significantly decreased activities of NOS. Hippocampal and striatal activities of NOS were unchanged at both presymptomatic and symptomatic stages of thiamine deficiency. Selectively decreased activities of neuronal NOS in the thalamus and the cerebellum extends the previous observations of region-selective metabolic changes and, ultimately, neuronal cell loss observed in thiamine deficiency.
Spontaneous locomotor episodes were recorded from hindlimb muscle nerves of decerebrate curarized rabbit preparations. Changes in the static position of both hindfeet (from extended to flexed) or of the head (from horizontal to bent forward) were shown to elicit a shift of the first locomotor burst from flexion to extension. Interneurones whose activity was recorded in the lumbar spinal cord were active throughout the first locomotor burst only when the latter was an extensor burst. Such data show that proprioceptive inputs are able to determine the onset of central locomotor programmation. Neuronal interactions which, at the spinal level, could account for this effect, are discussed.
The neocortex receives information about the environment and the rest of the brain through pathways from the thalamus. These pathways have frequency-dependent properties that can strongly influence their effect on the neocortex. In 1943 Morison and Dempsey described &quot;augmenting responses,&quot; a form of short-term plasticity in some thalamocortical pathways that is triggered by 8- to 15-hertz activation. Results from anesthetized rats showed that the augmenting response is initiated by pyramidal cells in layer V. The augmenting response was also observed in awake, unrestrained animals and was found to be dynamically modulated by their behavioral state.
In vivo microdialysis in the rat was used to determine whether changes in forebrain serotonin (5-HT) levels seen during the light-dark transition differ by area examined and whether these changes could be accounted for by complementary changes in behaviour. 5-HT levels increased significantly during the first half hour of dark phase in the hippocampus (45.9%), striatum (13.4%), amygdala (19.7%) and prefrontal cortex (18.4%), the increase in the hippocampus being significantly larger than those in the other areas. 5-HT levels co-varied significantly with changes in the levels of alert waking, a behavioural measure of the time spent in active waking, suggesting that this factor might account for the changes in 5-HT across the light-dark transition.
Electrical stimulation of the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) has been shown to activate brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis; we hypothesized that functional links between the VMH and other hypothalamic areas may serve to regulate intrinsic VMH control of brown fat heat production. Moveable electrodes were implanted in regions surrounding the VMH in adult male rats in order to assess any acute effect of activation of these structures alone on brown fat temperature. Stimulation in the area of the ventral lateral thalamic nucleus and the zona incerta (ZI) elicited a 0.2 to 0.8 degrees C drop from brown fat baseline temperature in 48 of 55 rats; the effective sites in the ZI area are restricted to the actual band of the nucleus. Application of the alpha-adrenergic blocker phentolamine prior to restimulation of active sites yielded mixed results; these findings are compatible with a role for the vasoconstrictive action of alpha-adrenergic receptors in the regulation of BAT temperature drops. The mechanisms underlying thermoregulatory responses or diurnal temperature cycling may provide a physiological context for the findings reported here.
We hypothesized that the interstrain difference between Wistar and Fischer-344 (F344) rats in cerebral infarction volume after proximal middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion might be explained by differences in excitotoxicity between both rat strains. Using microdialysis we measured during a 5 h period after MCA occlusion the release of aspartate, glutamate and taurine in the cerebral cortex and the striatum. The volume of striatal infarction was comparable in Wistar and F344 rats. We found, however, in Wistar rats a significantly higher striatal efflux of aspartate and glutamate than in F344 rats, whereas the striatal taurine efflux was of a similar magnitude in the two strains. Because of the (variably) smaller volume of cortical infarction in Wistar rats (than that in F344), the location of the microdialysis probe-membrane with respect to the area of cortical infarction differed between Wistar rats. Hence, a reliable comparison between the quantitative amount of amino acids in the dialysate from the cortical probes of both rat strains could not be made. These results, demonstrating differences in striatal excitotoxicity between Wistar and F344 rats after MCA occlusion, are the first to show interstrain differences in striatal pathophysiology of focal ischemia between these normotensive rat strains. They do however not explain why MCA occlusion results in a significantly different volume of cortical infarction between Wistar and F344 rats. The F344 strain will probably show in a more sensitive way, as compared to Wistar rats, neuroprotective effects of agents that diminish excitotoxic damage during focal cerebral ischemia.
The efficacy of ketamine (KET), a non-competitive NMDA receptor-channel blocker, was assessed in relieving nociceptive behaviors in neuropathic rats with tight ligations of the L5 and L6 spinal nerves. The antinociceptive effects of KET were dose- and time-dependent. A systemic injection of 0.01 mg/kg KET transiently (15-30 min) attenuated several nociceptive behaviors, including mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia, cold allodynia, spontaneous pain, and cold stress-induced pain. Treatment with 1.0 mg/kg KET consistently decreased all nociceptive behaviors for 45-75 min, without noticeable side effects. Higher doses (25 and 50 mg/kg) provided longer lasting relief: however, these doses resulted in transient motor impairment which lasted for 15-30 min post-injection. Systemic KET was most effective in decreasing the behavioral signs of mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia, followed by cold allodynia, cold stress-induced pain, and spontaneous pain. The present results demonstrate that blockade of NMDA receptors effectively alleviates nociceptive behaviors in a rat model of peripheral neuropathy, substantiating the important role of these receptors in the central sensitization that underlies the maintenance of neuropathic pain. In addition, the ability of KET to reduce significantly a variety of nocifensive behaviors suggests that this clinically safe drug could be used in pain management for neuropathic patients.

Apolipoprotein E (apo E) genotypes in 350 leprosy patients were examined and compared with those of 870 age-matched controls. The allelic frequencies of the apo E gene did not differ between demented patients with leprosy and controls. However, the frequency of apo E epsilon 4 allele was significantly higher in non-demented leprosy patients than in controls (P &lt; 0.001). Of special interest is that the prevalence of E3/4 genotype in non-demented leprosy patients increased significantly with age, being 14.1%, 24.4%, and 28.3% in the 60s, 70s, and 80s, respectively (P &lt; 0.05). These data suggest that apo E epsilon 4 is not a risk factor for senile dementia in elderly leprosy patients, and there exist factors to overcome the risk of apo E4 in leprosy patients.
The present work was designed to study the role of the oncogene product c-Fos in activating the transcription of preproenkephalin (PPE) gene following a kind of peripheral electric stimulation known as electroacupuncture (EA) stimulation. The temporal patterns of rat brain c-fos and PPE mRNA expression were evaluated using the method of Northern blotting, showing that c-fos mRNA expression, which peaked at 2 h after the termination of EA, was always ahead of the PPE mRNA expression which began at 4 h and peaked at 48 h after EA. The methods of immunocytochemistry (ICC) and in situ hybridization (ISH) techniques were combined to identify the co-existence of c-Fos protein and PPE mRNA at the cellular level. The results showed that only a small percentage of PPE mRNA-containing neurons depicts Fos-like immunoreactive nuclei. These findings suggest that c-Fos protein may not be involved in the activation of brain PPE gene transcription induced by peripheral electric stimulation.
We have described the interaction of besipirdine (HP 749, N-(n-propyl)-N-(4-pyridinyl)-1H-indol-1-amine hydrochloride) with voltage-dependent Na+ channels (Tang et al., 1995, Br. J. Pharmacol. 116,2468). Here we describe studies with besipirdine and a related compound, HP 184 (N-(n-propyl)-3-fluoro-4-pyridinyl)-1H-3-methylindol-1-amine hydrochloride), showing that this interaction is voltage-dependent and leads to frequency-dependent inhibition of electrically stimulated neurotransmitter release. Thus, the inhibition of veratridine-induced increases in intracellular Ca2+ was enhanced by depolarization with KCl (IC50 shifted from 23.8 +/- 1.4 microM in 5 mM KCl to 7.3 +/- 1.2 microM in 15 mM KCl for besipirdine and from 58.2 +/- 1.3 microM for HP 184). Moreover, the enhancement of electrically stimulated [3H]norepinephrine release by besipirdine was diminished at higher frequencies of stimulation. As has been previously suggested for such compounds, we predict that besipirdine would act as a filter in the brain allowing signalling at low frequencies but blocking transmission at high frequencies.
In Sweden, ca. 25% of unnatural deaths ascribed to self-inflicted injury are finally recorded as 'undetermined suicide' (abbreviated UMSA), i.e. the forensic pathologist has not been able to establish whether the fatality was an accident or a suicide. In the present study, a series of UMSA cases was investigated with the aims to study the impact of immigrant status, and alcohol abuse on the occurrence of this forensic diagnosis on the mode of death. The alcohol issue was addressed by focusing on blood alcohol concentrations at autopsy (BAC) and post mortem signs of alcohol-related organ pathology. The results can be summarised as follows: Positive BAC occurred at an equal rate in the UMSA group and in definite suicides, i.e. about 45%. Among non-Swedish UMSA victims positive BAC was more common (50%) than among the Swedish (41%), whereas no difference was found in the definite suicide group. The level of BAC at autopsy was significantly higher in Finnish immigrants than in other ethnic groups. Organic signs of chronic alcohol abuse were found in 13 of 40 cases testing positive for BAC; thus, presence of alcohol at autopsy may reflect incidental intake rather than habitual overconsumption.
The incidence and sex ratio of transsexualism in Sweden were calculated during the period between 1 July 1972 and 30 June 1992 using a case register kept on file at the Swedish Bureau of Social Welfare. Only cases of primary/genuine transsexualism were considered. The study is unique in that it has been performed in exactly the same way as a previous study by one of the authors (JW) in the 1960s and early 1970s. The data can therefore be reliably compared. The results show that the incidence figures remain constant over time and that the incidence of primary/genuine transsexualism is equally common in men and women. A larger group consisting of all those individuals who had applied for sex reassignment revealed a preponderance of men. Analysis showed that this large group included not only primary/genuine transsexuals but also effeminate homosexuals, transvestites and diagnostically uncertain cases. The importance of describing the exact methods used when calculating epidemiological data is highlighted.
Frequency figures for transsexualism, concerning incidence, prevalence and sex ratio calculated in the 1960s and 1970s, were compared with recent reports. The incidence figures remained constant over time, whereas the prevalence figures tended to increase during the review period. The incidence was found to be of the same magnitude in men and women, while the corresponding ratio for prevalence figures was 3:1. It is suggested that men seeking sex reassignment represent a more heterogeneous group than women, and that the reported male predominance to date is due to a lack of categorical studies of primary/ genuine transsexualism. It would appear that genuine transsexualism is, on the whole, insensitive to societal changes. The fundamental disturbance underlying this psychosexual identity disorder is suggested to be neurobiological in origin.
The ability of norepinephrine to stimulate adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity increases during the perinatal period in rat brown adipose tissue (BAT), and this increase is associated with changes in the activities of both GS alpha and AC. The purpose of this study was to determine which AC subtypes are present in neonatal BAT and to examine whether the perinatal increase in AC activity corresponds to an increase in the expression of a particular AC subtype. Analysis of AC mRNAs by nuclease protection assay demonstrated the presence of mRNAs encoding AC-III, AC-IV, AC-VI, and AC-IX in embryonic and postnatal BAT. Of the subtypes detected, only AC-III mRNA levels increased substantially during the perinatal period. The increase in AC-III expression was paralleled by an increase in isoproterenol-stimulated AC activity. Treatment of neonates was the sympathetic neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine abolished the perinatal increase in both AC activity and AC-III mRNA levels but had no effect on the expression of other AC subtypes. These results strongly indicate that the increase in AC activity during the perinatal period is due to an increase in the expression of AC-III.


Posteroventral pallidotomy as a treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD) has been the subject of increasing interest. We treated 4 nondemented patients with advanced PD, 2 with severe bradykinesia and a declining response to medication, and 2 with marked clinical fluctuations. All patients received 180 Gy delivered in one sitting to the right posteroventral pallidum site, used by Laitinen and colleagues, adjusted as needed, to avoid the optic tract. Only 1 patient changed significantly. Dyskinesia completely resolved on the side contralateral to the lesion in this patient. This same patient also became transiently demented and psychotic. The other 3 patients suffered no clearly identifiable beneficial or harmful effects. Follow-up magnetic resonance imaging scans of the brain at 1 year revealed lesions exactly where targeted although of unequal sizes. Our negative experience forces us to conclude that either larger volumes of tissue must be ablated, that physiologic monitoring is required for placing a lesion, that our subjects were poor candidates for the procedure, or that surgical ablation and radiation cause tissue damage of different types with different results.
The clinical and biochemical heterogeneity of the PCOS is mirrored by the range of neuroendocrine disturbances described in women with PCOS. An increased serum LH concentration is a common, although not ubiquitous, feature and occurs primarily as a result of an increase in the amplitude of pulsatile LH, and presumably GnRH, secretion. The frequency of pulsatile GnRH secretion may, however, be increased in certain patients and may conceivably increase LH bioactivity by altering glycosylation of the molecule. Vigorous debate continues as to whether the observed changes in gonadotrophins are a primary abnormality or occur secondary to alterations in peripheral steroid concentrations. The proponents of the frequency hypothesis point to the discordant changes in gonadotrophin secretion that may be induced by rapid frequency exogenous GnRH stimulation in patients with hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism. Those who believe that the inappropriate gonadotrophin secretion is a secondary phenomenon argue that manipulation of peripheral steroid levels, by either administration of oestrogen/progesterone, induced ovulation or ovarian diathermy, may correct the disturbance of gonadotrophin secretion, which is therefore presumably a consequence of changes in ovarian steroid feedback signals. The weight of evidence at present suggests that the inappropriate gonadotrophin secretion is usually a secondary abnormality, although there may be groups of patients with a primary increase in GnRH pulsatility. The search for a unifying neuroendocrine disturbance in PCOS has been frustrated by the inability to find consistent evidence of disordered central dopaminergic, opioidergic, noradrenergic or serotoninergic pathways. Those abnormalities which have been uncovered appear to be secondary to chronic anovulation rather than of primary pathological import, and emphasize the central importance of the ovary as culprit rather than victim in PCOS.
We use cold to reversibly suppress cortical areas involved in visual perception, learning and retrieval and we found a localization of functions essential for performance of delayed match-to-sample (DMS) in anterior ventral temporal cortex, we call ventral TE (TEv). We also found a visual input for this area that is separate from the one going to the heart of inferotemporal cortex and suppressing this input also impairs performance of DMS. Suppressing the dorsal half of TE (TEd) disrupts retrieval of some, but not all complex images, and different images are disrupted in different animals. This variability within and between animals is extreme, with perfect performance on some complex images and below chance on others. We suggested that TEd represents some, but not all elements of the images. In attempting to discover what those elements might be, we found that TEd suppression disrupts the perception of small figures, but not the larger figures that they compose. We also found that it impaired the discrimination and matching of colors, without impairing the ability to detect and differentiate hues. We proposed that TEd represents the details and colors of things, but not global figures. Also, complex objects do not have a representation in one area, rather its representation involves the entire visual system, including TE with different elements of the image represented in different parts.
The primary visual cortex (V1) is part of a highly interconnected network of cortical areas, hierarchically organized but operating concurrently across hierarchical levels. The high degree of reciprocal interconnection among visual cortical areas provides a framework for their interaction during the performance of visual scene analysis. The functional interdependency of visual cortical areas which develops during scene analysis can be investigated by techniques which measure interareal correlated activity. Evidence from monkeys performing a visual pattern discrimination suggests that synchronization of aperiodic activity from neuronal ensembles in cortical areas at different hierarchical levels is a relevant aspect of visual function. The near-periodic nature of the synchronized response to moving light bars in earlier studies may have been a result of the type of stimulus used. Various models of visual cortex are discussed in which interareal synchronization plays a functional role.
The dominant view during the past 40 years has been that the visual system analyzes the visual scene by breaking it down into basic attributes such as color, form, motion, depth and texture. Individual dedicated neurons and specific visual areas were believed to be devoted to the analysis of each of these attributes. Current research has challenged these views by emphasizing that neurons, especially in the cortex, have multifunctional properties and therefore serve as general-purpose analyzers rather than feature detectors. Consequently, it appears that most extrastriate visual areas, rather than each being devoted to the analysis of a specific basic visual attribute, perform several different tasks and thereby engage in more advanced and complex analyses than had been realized.
Brief 200-Hz stimulation of the corticomedial amygdala (CMA) increases the aggressiveness of male Syrian golden hamsters for about 30 min; the effect peaks 10-15 min after stimulation. This effect is sensitive to stimulation amplitude and frequency. Stimulation at the parameters that reduce attack latency increases flank marking but does not affect copulation latency or general activity. Immunocytochemical analysis suggests that stimulation effects may be coupled to c-fos expression and that unilateral stimulation has bilateral effects. CMA stimulation effects appear to mimic part of the time course of behaviorally induced attack priming. The temporal persistence of aggression may result from long-term potentiation-like changes within CMA-related neural circuitry.
Rabbits were eyeblink conditioned while their accessory abducens nucleus (ACC), facial nucleus (FN), and surrounding reticular formation (RF) were temporarily inactivated with microinjections of muscimol to determine whether these structures are critically involved in acquisition of the conditioned eyeblink response (CR). Rabbits performed no CRs or unconditioned responses (URs) during inactivation training. Training was continued without inactivation and rabbits performed the CR at asymptotic levels from the start of training without inactivation. They had fully learned the CR while their ACC, FN, and RF were inactivated, despite performing no CRs or URs at all during inactivation. These results rule out any critical role for neurons within the ACC, FN, or surrounding RF in acquisition of the classically conditioned eyeblink response.
A patient with type 3 Gaucher disease is described with a novel genotype, D399N/R463C, established by DNA sequencing. This patient was previously reported as having genotype N370S/R463C. This communication now establishes that no patients reported with mutation N370S have the neuronopathic forms of Gaucher disease and has important implications for genetic counseling.
In normal hamsters, we investigated whether the sex-specific, selective increase in serum FSH concentration in the juvenile female was associated with sex-specific changes in the percentages of adenohypophysial gonadotrophs. Serum LH concentrations did not rise between Day 4 and Day 19 in either sex and did not differ significantly between the sexes on Days 4, 7, 12, 14, and 19 after birth. Serum FSH concentrations were about 2-fold higher on Days 7, 12, and 14 than on Days 4 or 19 in males. In females, serum FSH rose markedly between Days 4 and 7, declined slightly by Day 12, rose to peak levels by Day 14, and declined slightly by Day 19 to levels not different from those seen on Day 7. Body weights rose between Days 4 and 19 and were similar in both sexes. There were no sex differences in pituitary gland weights, which rose between Days 4 and 12 and did not increase significantly further by Day 19. On Day 0, the percentages of immunoreactive LH and FSH cells were about 6 and 1%, respectively, in both sexes. These percentages increased progressively between Days 0 and 7 and between Days 7 and 14. On Day 7, but not on Day 14, the percentages of LH and FSH cells were greater in females than in males. There were more LH than FSH cells in males on Days 0, 7 and 14, and in females on Day 0 but not on Day 7 or 14. Matching of 10 FSH cells per gland with LH cells in serial sections of each of 30 glands showed FSH immunoreactivity to occur only in cells staining for LH. In hypophysectomized-gonadectomized adult hamster hosts with allografts of neonatal pituitary glands beneath the renal capsule, we investigated whether these sex-specific changes in the percentage of cells might be predetermined by the time of birth or dependent on sex differences in the internal environment existing in the postnatal hamster. Groups consisted of male donors-male hosts, male donors-female hosts, female donors-female hosts, and female donors-male hosts. The percentages of LH cells in allografts in all four groups increased from Days 0 to 7 and from Days 7 to 14. Percentages of LH cells on Day 14 in all four groups were not different from those in age-matched male or female adenohypophyses in situ. In contrast, the mean percentages of FSH cells were low (about 1-3%) on Days 0, 7, and 14 in all four groups. In other males hosts, administration of a low dose of LHRH for 7 days did not alter the percentage of LH cells in male allografts but increased the percentage of FSH cells to approach that observed in age-matched male adenohypophyses in situ. Administration of a larger dose of LHRH for 7 days to other male hosts with male allografts increased the percentages of LH and FSH cells to percentages not different from those in age-matched female adenohypophyses in situ. Matching of 10 FSH cells/allograft with LH cells in serial sections of each of 58 allografts showed FSH immunoreactivity to occur only in cells staining for LH. The results of experiments conducted on normal hamsters demonstrate that more marked increases in the percentages of adenohypophysial LH cells and FSH cells occur in females than in males in association with the onset of the selective increase in serum FSH levels in females. The results of experiments employing allografts suggest that the greater increase in LH and FSH cells in females is due to sex differences in the internal environment existing in the postnatal hamster, which can be accounted for by differences in LHRH secretion, rather than to inherent differences between female and male adenohypophyses at the time of birth. We conclude that the greater increases in gonadotrophs observed in female hamster pups on Day 7 after birth and the accompanying sex-specific, selective elevation in serum FSH concentration are probably due to sex differences in LHRH secretion during the juvenile period.
Experimentation with cultured cells often requires analyzing cellular protein extract by gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting. Traditional methods for extracting cellular proteins by homogenization or detergent solubilization usually produce protein samples that are viscous (due to the presence of DNA) and prone to degradation due to the presence of endogenous protease activity. We have developed a method that involves solubilization of cells with sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), precipitation of proteins with trichloroacetic acid (TCA) with special physical exclusion of DNA aggregate and reconstitution of precipitated proteins with Tris base. Protein samples prepared by this method contain little DNA, making them ideal for long-term storage. The solubilized total protein extracts are fully compatible with protein assay, gel electrophoresis and Western blotting. When compared to protein extracts from a homogenization method, those from the TCA method showed an identical total protein staining pattern on SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and contained distinct cellular proteins recognized by many monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies tested (including anti-actin, spectrin, protein kinase C (alpha), talin and spectrin) on Western blots.

1. We investigated some neurochemical properties of a novel benzamide, YM-43611, [(S)-N-(1-benzyl-3-pyrrolidinyl)-5-chloro-4-cyclopropylcarbonylamino+ ++-2- methoxybenzamide] in comparison with putative D2-like receptor antagonists using both rat and human cloned dopamine D2-like receptors in vitro. 2. Receptor binding studies revealed that YM-43611 had appropriately potent affinities for both rat and human D2-like receptors, with moderate selectivity for D3 receptors and high selectivity for D4 receptors over D2 receptors (Ki values (nM) for rat receptors: D2, 165; D3, 35.5; D4, 1.85, and for human receptors: D2, 42.9; D3, 11.2; D4, 2.10). 3. YM-43611 displayed weak or negligible affinity for other neurotransmitter receptors, namely D1, D5, alpha(1), alpha(2), beta, 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, 5-HT3, H1, M1 and M2 receptors. 4. Dopamine stimulated low-Km GTPase activity on membranes from Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells expressing the human D2-like receptor subtype. This response to dopamine of low-Km GTPase activity was inhibited by use of putative D2-like receptor antagonists. YM-43611 showed a moderate selectivity for D3 receptors (Ki = 45.5 nM) and a high selectivity for D4 receptors (Ki = 3.28 nM) over D2 receptors (Ki = 70.6 nM). 5. Dopamine inhibited forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase in intact CHO cells expressing the human D2-like receptor subtype. YM-43611 shifted the inhibition curve of dopamine on respective D2-like receptor subtype-mediated cyclic AMP formation to the right in a parallel fashion, showing a pA2 value of 7.42 (38.1 nM) for D2 receptors, a pKB value of 8.06 (8.68 nM) for D3 receptors, and a pA2 value of 8.42 (3.77 nM) for D4 receptors. 6. YM-43611 but not the other D2-like receptor antagonists exhibited good selectivity with respect to dual antagonism for D3 and D4 receptors in both receptor binding and functional assays. 7. These results indicate that YM-43611 is a novel D2-like receptor antagonist with high potency and selectivity for both D3 and D4 receptors. YM-43611 is therefore expected to be valuable in exploration of the physiological role of D3 and D4 receptors.
In order to study whether axonal polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) is a distinct entity, we prospectively studied the clinical, electrophysiological and pathological features of 16 patients with chronic idiopathic axonal polyneuropathy (CIAP) with MGUS (CIAP-MGUS) and compared them with those of 71 patients who had CIAP without MGUS. In patients with CIAP-MGUS the arms were more frequently affected and the disability was worse. On electromyography there was more evidence of denervation in patients with CIAP-MGUS. All other clinical symptoms, signs, nerve conduction parameters and nerve biopsy findings, showed no differences between both groups. Antibodies against myelin associated glycoprotein (MAG), GMI-ganglioside and chondrotoin sulphate were not present. Only one patient with an immunoglobulin M (IgM)-MGUS and a sensory neuropathy had antibodies against sulphatide. In conclusion, axonal polyneuropathy in patients with and without MGUS are essentially indistinguishable rather than different, suggesting that the MGUS may be coincidental in most patients.
The analysis of the behavioral effect of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) antagonists has been generally based on drugs which act at the associated ion channel. In contrast dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DH beta E) is a competitive antagonist at the nAChR. Using rats, DH beta E was injected intraventricularly prior to training in two spatial tests, the Morris Water Maze and a Win-Stay radial maze. In addition DH beta E 300 nmol was used to reverse the effect of (-)-nicotine on locomotor activity. In the Morris Water Maze DH beta E (300 nmol) disrupted memory of the platform location as measured by crosses of the area in a probe trial. At 300 nmol DH beta E showed no sensorimotor effects in a visible platform test. In the Win-Stay task there was a significant, dose dependent disruption of spatial memory. A dissociation of nicotine's effects on locomotor activity was observed, in that DH beta E 300 nmol was able to significantly attenuate (-)-nicotine enhancement of horizontal motor activity, but did not affect the initial reduction of vertical activity. Nicotinic processing of memory appears to be involved in these tests of spatial memory.
A neuropeptide that strongly inhibits the spontaneous contractions of the oesophagus in Lymnaea has been characterized as GAPRFVamide. Direct mass spectrometry of nervous tissues and immunocytochemical studies show that the peptide is synthesized by neurones in the buccal ganglia and transported to the oesophagus via the dorso-buccal nerve. In accordance with the function of the peptide, immunoreactive fibres are detected within the muscle layer of the oesophagus. Finally, mass spectrometry reveals the presence of a number of unidentified peptides in the nerves that innervate the oesophagus, which suggests that oesophageal activities may be modified by multiple peptides.
Several astrocyte gene products, such as enkephalin and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), are expressed at higher levels under in vitro conditions relative to in vivo. We have observed that cultured glial cells express high basal levels of transcription factors, such as fos-related antigens (Fra), c-Jun, JunD, and cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB). When neuronal cells are plated on top of the monolayers, the expression of Fra, c-Jun, JunD, and GFAP decreases in the astroglial cells. The DNA binding activity to the AP-1-like sites of the GFAP and proenkephalin genes was examined in these cultures. The protein complex from glial cultures which recognizes the GFAP AP-1 element contained Fra immunoreactivity while the DNA binding from mixed neuronal/glial cultures consists of CREB-immunoreactive proteins. In glial cultures, no binding occurred to the proenkephalin AP-1-like element but a CREB-immunoreactive complex recognized this sequence in the mixed cultures. Thus, with the addition of neurons, both transcription factors and target gene products decrease in astroglial cells. The proteins that compose gene modulatory complexes also change suggesting that regulation of astroglial gene expression is modulated by neurons.
Orphan transporter v7-3 is a member of a new subfamily of Na+, Cl- dependent neurotransmitter transporters with two large extracellular loops. Distribution of v7-3 mRNA was investigated in the rat brain. In situ hybridization study revealed that v7-3 mRNA was widely distributed in the rat central nervous system, including the olfactory bulb, the hypothalamus, the cerebral cortex, the hippocampus, and the cerebellum. In addition, intense v7-3 mRNA expression was found in the motor nuclei including the oculomotor nucleus, abducens nucleus, trigeminal motor nucleus, facial nucleus, hypoglossal nucleus and ventral horn of spinal cord. Intense hybridization signals were also observed in the nuclei containing monoaminergic neurons, such as locus coeruleus, the substantia nigra pars compacta, the ventral tegmental area, the dorsal raphe nucleus and the median raphe nucleus. This multifocal and broad nature of the v7-3 distribution suggests widespread roles for this gene product in neurons mediating several important brain function.
We have refined the map positions and identified molecular markers for three neurological mutations in the mouse, tottering (tg), Purkinje cell degeneration (pcd), and nervous (nr). These mutations were localized using simple sequence length polymorphisms between the mouse strain on which the mutation arose and the inbred strain onto which the mutation was bred. This approach to mutation mapping is generalizable to any mutant that has been backcrossed for several generations. The tg mutation was localized to the 1.1 cM region of chromosome 8 distal to simple sequence repeat (SSR) D8Mit103 and proximal to SSRs D8Mit79, D8Mit105, and D8Mit283. The pcd locus was mapped to the 5 cM interval of chromosome 13 between SSRs D13Mit139 and D13Mit67, and the nr locus was mapped between SSRs D8Mit155 and D8Mit18, a 5.6 cM region of chromosome 8. For each mutation, several SSRs distinguishing mutant from wild type chromosomes were identified within these regions. The definition of molecular markers distinguishing mutant from wild type alleles makes possible for the first time identification of tg, pcd, and nr mutants prior to behavioral manifestation of the mutant genotype. Thus, developmental studies of these mutants designed to describe or dissect the biochemical basis of the induction of the mutant phenotype are now feasible.
Synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) is involved in the molecular regulation of neurotransmitter release. SNAP-25 exists in two isoforms, which arise from alternative splicing of exon 5. In situ hybridization was used to examine whether SNAP-25 isoform mRNA expression may be altered by experimental manipulations. The effect of unilateral nerve injury on SNAP-25 mRNA levels was studied in motoneurons of the rat lumbar spinal cord. In all animals, SNAP-25a RNA transcripts were demonstrated in the nucleus of motoneurons, whereas SNAP-25b mRNA was present mainly in the cytoplasm. Cloning of the rat Snap gene intron spacing the alternative exon 5a and 5b sequences and generation of an intron-specific oligonucleotide probe used for in situ hybridization did not point to the presence of unspliced variants of SNAP-25b mRNA. After unilateral sciatic nerve transection (axotomy), SNAP-25a and SNAP-25b expression decreased in axotomized motoneurons compared with corresponding motoneurons on the unlesioned side. A significant decrease was demonstrated 2 days after axotomy, which reached a maximum after 7 days (62% for SNAP-25a and 67% for SNAP-25b), while levels had slightly recovered by 14 and 28 days. Ventral root avulsion also induced a decrease in levels of SNAP-25 RNA transcripts, suggesting that the axonal injury in itself was responsible for the down-regulation of Snap gene expression. This study shows that, in spinal motoneurons, SNAP-25a and SNAP-25b RNA transcripts have different subcellular localization and that levels of SNAP-25 RNA transcripts are down-regulated after axonal injury.
Previous studies have shown that corticosteroid hormones affect kainate-induced excitotoxic processes in the rat hippocampus. In the present study we employed in situ hybridization to examine the effect of adrenalectomy, and subsequent treatment with a low or a high lose of corticosterone on the mRNA levels for kainate receptor subunits in the hippocampus. We observed that adrenalectomy by itself does not affect the expression pattern for the GluR6, GluR7, KAR1 and KAR2 subunits. However, treatment of the adrenalectomized animals with a low dose of corticosterone (3 micrograms/100 g bodyweight) resulted in an enhanced expression of the KAR1, KAR2 and GluR6 subunit mRNAs, when compared to the expression levels in the untreated rats or the sham operated controls. Treatment with a high dose of corticosterone (1 mg/100 g bodyweight) yielded expression levels which were significantly lower than those observed in animals treated with a low corticosterone dose, for the KAR1, KAR2 and GluR7 subunit mRNAs; the levels did not differ from those in untreated rats or in the sham group. We conclude that changes in corticosteroid receptor occupancy, which may occur daily due to circadian or stress-induced variations in the circulating corticosterone level, potentially regulate high affinity kainate receptor activation and the processes in which these receptors are involved.
Biological sensorimotor control is characterized by the use of signals from large numbers of sensors, monitoring numerous variables. Among these are the exteroceptive signals from the eyes and ears. Many of the sensory signals are under efferent control, and the motor responses they evoke, whether at a simple reflex level or routed through the higher centres, appear to be task and context dependent. In technology the analysis and management of multiple-input, multiple-output systems clearly exceed the capabilities of classical servo control theory. In this commentary, new types of control system based on conditional logic are discussed in relation to the rules animals use to control movement. It is argued that the concepts of fuzzy logic control provide a useful and &quot;biologically compatible&quot; way of describing sensorimotor behaviour. An example is given of a robotic device under fuzzy control, in which behaviours are selected according to a visual assessment of motor task and context. Each behaviour is associated with a small subset of rules relating specific sensory variables to specific motor actions. The rule-based approach is also discussed in relation to neurophysiological theories regarding the interneuronal control of locomotion, including the recently adduced &quot;parliamentary principle.&quot; The analysis and classification of behaviours and rules is seen as a useful preliminary to the future study of interneuronal systems.
Although motor control has historically been an important discipline, it runs the risk of being overshadowed by other newer areas of neuroscience. One response would be to generate increased excitement in motor control, e.g., by more clearly defining the big questions, by discussing them in new audience-friendly formats, and by promoting them, perhaps in the context of applied motor control. One recent exciting development has been a shift to the study of natural multijoint movements in three dimensions. We are currently investigating one such multijoint movement, overarm throwing. The question we are asking is, What causes inaccuracies in overarm throws? Is it errors in the timing or in the velocity of joint rotations that produce the hand trajectory? Surprisingly, inaccuracies (high and low throws) do not result from errors in rotations of proximal joints; instead they result from variability in the timing of onset of finger opening. It remains to be determined whether the decreased accuracy in throwing in cerebellar patients is caused by an increase in this error or from disorder in some other multijoint coordinating mechanism.
A number of different factors contributed to the rationale for providing a critical review of the field of excitatory amino acids in the cerebral cortex at this time. In addition to the recent growing realisation by clinicians that the excitatory amino acids are linked critically to a number of neurological conditions, including neurodegenerative syndromes such as Alzheimer's disease, cortical damage due to stroke and cerebral ischemia, epilepsy, amyotropic lateral sclerosis, and schizophrenia, the recent cloning and membrane reconstitution of specific receptors known as AMPA, NMDA, kainate, and metabotropic receptors and their known subunits have prompted a surge of renewed interest in this important family of synaptic transmitter molecules. Moreover, recent advances in our understanding of the molecular events involved in growth promotion in the early stages of the development of the cortex have shown that both NMDA and non-NMDA receptor subtypes perform important roles in certain aspects of target selection and neurite outgrowth, in cone stimulation and guidance, and in spine formation and morphological alterations. A recent explosive growth in interest in the possible roles of nitric oxide and related short-lived radicals in plasticity, disease, and synaptic transmission also is related closely with the actions of excitatory amino acids. All these relatively new advances have transpired in parallel with ongoing work that has extended our appreciation for the roles of excitatory amino acids in the areas of synaptic plasticity (long-term potentiation, long-term depression, receptive field reorganisation following drug-induced or peripheral sensory disturbances, such as denervation or amputation), in processes of normal transmission at functionally and electrophysiologically identified neurones of the cerebral cortex, and in distinct proposed roles for cortical glia. A greater appreciation of the diverse types and properties of the burgeoning family of receptors for the metabotropic receptor also contributed to our desire to feature that aspect of the field in the context of glia and neurones of the cerebral cortex. That part of the field of neuroscience concerned with the functions of excitatory amino acids has grown so large over the past 10 years or so, that a review paper focusing on the contributions to a specialized meeting devoted solely to cerebral cortex could easily be supported by material comprising a sufficient body of communications from top-quality research laboratories. The present account endeavours to summarize and discuss the biochemical characteristics, physiological roles, pharmacological properties, clinical relevance, developmental involvements, and anatomical-morphological aspects pertaining to the excitatory amino acid transmitters in cerebral cortex.
Laminin (Ln) isoforms may play important roles in neuronal development, particularly axon guidance, but neural receptors mediating interactions with Ln are not entirely understood. In this paper, we have compared the adhesive and process outgrowth activities of a human neuroblastoma cell line SY5Y on various laminin isoforms. Cell adhesion and process outgrowth were examined on murine Ln-1 (Englebreth-Holm-Swarm sarcoma laminin), human placental Ln-1 (human Ln-1[p]), human Ln-2 (merosin), human Ln-5 (kalinin/epiligrin/nicein), and human foreskin keratinocyte extracellular matrix extract (human HFK-ECM). Ln-5 was shown to evoke process outgrowth in amounts comparable to other Ln isoforms. Antibody perturbation experiments showed that adhesion and process outgrowth on murine Ln-1 was primarily mediated by the integrin alpha 1 beta 1, whereas adhesion and outgrowth on human Ln-5 and human HFK-ECM were mediated by alpha 3 beta 1. Adhesion to human Ln-1(p) and Ln-2 was not blocked by addition of anti-alpha 1 or anti-alpha 3 antibodies alone, but adhesion was partially perturbed when these antibodies were added in combination. Process outgrowth on human Ln-1(p) was blocked when either anti-alpha 3 or anti-beta 1 antibodies were added, indicating that alpha 3 beta 1 is the primary integrin heterodimer responsible for process extension on this substrate. These results demonstrate that Ln-5 and other Ln isoforms support comparable levels of adhesion and process outgrowth, but different integrin heterodimers, alone and in combination, are used by SY5Y cells to mediate responses.
1. The mapping of glucocorticoid receptors (GR) in the rat central nervous system (CNS) has demonstrated their widespread presence in large numbers of nerve and glial cell populations also outside the classical stress regions. 2. The present paper summarizes the evidence that glucocorticoids via GR in the CNS can act as lifelong organizing signals from development to aging. The following examples are given. (a) In the prepubertal and adult offspring, prenatal corticosterone treatment can produce long-lasting changes in striatal dopaminergic communication. (b) In adulthood, the evidence suggests complex regulation by adrenocortical hormones of neurotrophic factors and their receptors in the hippocampal formation. (c) In aging, the strongly GR-immunoreactive pyramidal cell layer of the CA1 hippocampal area appears to be preferentially vulnerable to neurotoxic actions of glucocorticoids, especially in some rat strains. 3. Strong evidence suggests that each nerve cell in the CNS is supported by a trophic unit, consisting of other nerve cells and glial cells, blood vessels, and extracellular matrix molecules. Due to multiple actions on nerve and glial cell populations of the different trophic units, the glucocorticoids may exert either an overall trophic or a neurotoxic action. It seems likely that with increasing age, the endangering actions of glucocorticoids on nerve cells prevail over the neurotrophic ones, leading to reduced nerve cell survival in some trophic units.
The nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactivity and NADPH-diaphorase activity of intracardiac neurones in the rat and guinea-pig was studied at the ultrastructural level. While some nitric oxide synthase-containing intracardiac neurones were very heavily labelled, with electron-dense immunoprecipitate distributed throughout the neuronal cell bodies and their processes, most of the labelled neurones exhibited a lighter and more patchy distribution of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive material. Synapses made by nitric oxide synthase-negative nerve fibres with labelled intracardiac neurones were seen. Conversely, many nitric oxide synthase-containing nerve fibres that made synaptic contacts with unlabelled intracardiac neurones were also observed. Some small granule-containing cells were nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive and were associated with unlabelled nerve terminals, while non-immunoreactive small granule-containing cells that were innervated by nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive nerves were also seen. Small patches of osmiophilic electron-dense material were observed in the cytoplasm of NADPH-diaphorase-positive intracardiac neurones. This is the first description of the ultrastructural distribution of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactivity and NADPH-diaphorase activity in a subpopulation of intracardiac neurones of rat and guinea-pig heart and provides further evidence in support of a role for nitric oxide in the local control of the heart by intrinsic neurones.
Human umbilical vessels are devoid of nerves and therefore endothelial cells may play an important role in the control of feto-placental blood flow. The pharmacological effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine, histamine and endothelin were examined in umbilical arteries and veins from legal terminations (gestational age 8-17 weeks, n=12) and normal term vaginal deliveries (gestational age 38-41, n=12). Immunocytochemistry of human unbilical vessels indicated that 5-hydroxytryptamine, histamine and endothelin were localised in subpopulations of endothelial cells of both artery and vein in late, but not early, pregnancy. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (10 nM-30 microM) caused sustained concentration-dependent contractions in all vessels from early and late pregnancy. Histamine (0.1 microM-30 mM) also caused sustained contractions in all vessels from late pregnancy but only 27% of arteries and 41% of veins from early pregnancy responded. Endothelin (10 pM-30 nM) caused slow long-lasting contractions in all vessels from early and late pregnancy. Atrial natriuretic peptide and neuropeptide Y did not alter vascular tone. The endothelium may thus play an autocrine/paracrine role, by synthesizing and releasing the above reactive substances in late pregnancy to influence feto-placental blood flow.
Theories concerning the etiology of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder have evolved from the 1950s, when it was believed that an injury to or dysfunction of the diencephalon was the cause of the syndrome, to the present day, when delayed brain maturation is postulated as an explanation. Delay in laying down myelin can be investigated by newly developed techniques like computerized EEG and transcranial magnetic stimulation. In this study, a group of 15 children 3-7 years of age suffering from attention deficit were investigated using both methods in combination and were compared to a control group of 23 age-matched normal children. On the computerized EEG spectral analysis significant differences to the control group were found in areas O1 and O2 (P &lt; 0.05, Student's t-test). With transcranial magnetic stimulation, the overall difference in right/left stimulation was statistically significant (P &lt; 0.001). The results suggest delayed myelination at the brain stem reticular formation where the alpha rhythm is activated and at the corticospinal pathway as parts of a widespread involvement.
The ratio of 5-hydroxytryptophol to 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5HTOL/5HIAA) in urine was compared with concentrations of ethanol and methanol as a way to monitor recent alcohol consumption. During detoxification of alcohol-dependent subjects, ethanol persisted longer in urine than in breath or plasma. Blood and urinary methanol remained increased for 2-6 h after blood ethanol had returned to background concentrations, whereas 5HTOL/5HIAA remained increased for 6-15 h. In healthy volunteers who had ingested alcohol (range 3-98 g) the previous afternoon or evening, 87% (for men) and 59% (for women) of all drinking occasions exceeding 7 g of alcohol were identified by an increased 5HTOL/5HIAA in the first morning urine void. This compared with 32% and 12%, respectively, identified by analysis of ethanol (&gt;200 micromol/L). No gender difference in the excretion pattern of 5HTOL/5HIAA was seen. The results demonstrate that 5HTOL/5HIAA provides a specific and more sensitive method to detect recent alcohol consumption than does ethanol or methanol.

Inhibition is commonly thought to suppress neuronal responses, but new discoveries suggest that it may also gate transmission by coordinating the temporal patterning of neuronal responses and so play an important part in information processing in the brain.


Recent findings from cognitive neuroscience and cognitive psychology may help explain why recovered memories of trauma are sometimes illusory. In particular, the notion of defective source monitoring has been used to explain a wide range of recently established memory distortions and illusions. Conversely, the results of a number of studies may potentially be relevant to forgetting and recovery of accurate memories, including studies demonstrating reduced hippocampal volume in survivors of sexual abuse, and recovery from functional and organic retrograde amnesia. Other recent findings of interest include the possibility that state-dependent memory could be induced by stress-related hormones, new pharmacological models of dissociative states, and evidence for 'repression' in patients with right parietal brain damage.
The prominent view that the rodent hippocampus is dedicated to spatial memory has been challenged recently by observations that both limit the nature of hippocampal spatial representation and extend its scope beyond literal space. These findings reveal that the rodent hippocampus mediates memory representations on the basis of non-spatial, as well as spatial, relations among items in memory, and supports access to these memories in a variety of situations. Therefore, the defining features of hippocampal representation in rodents, as in humans, lie not in the modality of the information processed, but in the organization of the information that supports a capacity for flexible memory expression.
In the past year, magnetic resonance has assumed an increasingly important role in the study of patients with epilepsy that now extends beyond its demonstration of neuroanatomy and neuropathology into the fields of neurochemistry, neurometabolism and neurophysiology. For proper use of this information, epileptologists, neurologists and neuroradiologists need to understand the limitations as well as the strengths of this technology. Magnetic resonance literacy will increasingly become an essential part of all of these disciplines.
The Autism Behavior Checklist (ABC) was used as a screening instrument in a study of autism spectrum disorders in a population of children with mental retardation or physical disability or both. The ABC score clearly reflected behavioural problems found in children with mental retardation and not only behaviours typical of autism. If the cut-off score used was 45 (lower than recommended by the original investigators), children with autistic disorder without multiple other disabilities were reliably identified, with an acceptable rate of false positive cases. In order not to miss other autism spectrum disorders, all cases with several omitted items in their checklists were examined in more detail. The Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS) distinguished reasonably well between autistic disorder and other autism spectrum disorders.
The prevalence of autism spectrum disorders was studied in all children with mental retardation and/or motor disability in a defined geographical region over a two-year follow-up period. In the general population, the prevalence of autistic disorder was 0.09% at the end of the follow-up period -a minimum estimate, as children with average intelligence were not screened. Autism spectrum disorders were found in 19.8% of children with mental retardation, including strictly defined autistic disorder (DSM-III-R criteria) in 8.9%; the two-year follow-up yielded a higher prevalence of 11.7% with autistic disorder. Among children with cerebral palsy, 10.5% had an autism spectrum disorder. Clear co-variation was found between mental retardation, epilepsy and autism spectrum disorders in this population of children with neurodevelopmental disorders.
It has been hypothesized that taste buds are induced by contact with developing cranial nerve fibers late in embryonic development, since descriptive studies indicate that during embryonic development taste cell differentiation occurs concomitantly with or slightly following the advent of innervation. However, experimental evidence delineating the role of innervation in taste bud development is sparse and equivocal. Using two complementary experimental approaches, we demonstrate that taste cells differentiate fully in the complete absence of innervation. When the presumptive oropharyngeal region was taken from a donor axolotl embryo, prior to its innervation and development of taste buds, and grafted ectopically on to the trunk of a host embryo, the graft developed well-differentiated taste buds. Although grafts were invaded by branches of local spinal nerves, these neurites were rarely found near ectopic taste cells. When the oropharyngeal region was raised in culture, numerous taste buds were generated in the complete absence of neural elements. Taste buds in grafts and in explants were identical to those found in situ both in terms of their morphology and their expression of calretinin and serotonin immunoreactivity. Our findings indicate that innervation is not necessary for complete differentiation of taste receptor cells. We propose that taste buds are either induced in response to signals from other tissues, such as the neural crest, or arise independently through intrinsic patterning of the local epithelium.
We present a new method for quantitative analysis of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA), expressed as muscle sympathetic burst area (MSBA). This technique is likely to be useful for inter-individual comparisons and for frequency domain analysis of MSNA. After standardization of MSNA so that the burst of highest amplitude in the integrated MSNA trace was 1000 units, MSNA was assessed by measuring the area of each burst in the integrated MSNA trace, with baroreflex latency of about 1.3 sec while triggered by consecutive R-waves of the ECG. We examined the relationship between MSBA and burst rate (burst number/min) or plasma norepinephrine levels at rest in 50 healthy subjects, aged 23-82 years. MSBA showed positive correlations with burst rate (r = 0.91, n = 50) and plasma levels of norepinephrine (r = 0.64, n = 22). During head-up tilting in 6 subjects, MSBA showed linear correlations with sine values of tilt angles and with plasma norepinephrine levels. These results suggest that MSBA is a useful index of MSNA for evaluating both intra-individual and inter-individual variations of MSNA.

Hybrids between immortal cells that express telomerase and normal cells that lack telomerase have a limited lifespan. We demonstrate that telomerase is repressed in such hybrids. Treatment of immortal human cell lines with certain oligonucleotides resulted in telomere elongation. We took advantage of this observation to test the hypothesis that elongation of telomeres would extend the lifespan of cells in culture. An immortal human cell line was treated with an oligonucleotide to lengthen its telomeres and then was fused with mortal cells. The lifespan of these hybrid cells was longer than that of the hybrids in which telomeres had not been elongated. These observations provide the first direct evidence supporting the hypothesis that telomere length determines proliferative capacity of human cells.
The effect of luteinizing (LH) and human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) hormones on gap junctions (Gjs) and intercellular communication (ic) was evaluated in Leydig (interstitial) cells from mouse testes. Cell cultures enriched in Leydig cells were studied under control conditions and when maintained in the presence of 100 ng/mL LH, 10 ng/mL hCG, or 1 mM dibutiryl-cAMP (db-cAMP), for 8, 24, and 36 h. To monitor the extent of ic, Lucifer yellow (LY) was injected through a patch pipet into one cell of-small cell aggregates (6-10), and its transfer was evaluated using fluorescent microscopy. The expression of GJs was monitored using immunofluorescent (IF) labeling of connexin 43 (Cx43) with a specific antibody. Testosterone secretion was determined by radioimmunoassay. At all culture times, testosterone levels in the medium were higher in treated than in control cell cultures. In cell cultures of 8 h, LY transferred to most of the neighboring cells (93%) and cell membrane appositions showed abundant Cx43; no difference was found between control and treated cells. In contrast, in control cell cultures of 24 and 36 h, LY transferred to a reduced fraction of neighboring cells (46 and 21%, respectively) and Cx43 labeling was markedly decreased. Addition of LH, hCG, or db-cAMP, to cell cultures for 24 and 36 h completely prevented the decrease in ic and Cx43 expression. Immunoblot studies, from total protein homogenates of cell cultures of 36 h, showed that relative levels of 40- and 43-kDa bands, characteristic of Cx43, were higher in treated than in control cells. These results demonstrate that the expression of Cx43 and ic in Leydig cells is modulated by LH and hCG, and suggest that their effect is mediated by the second messenger of these hormones, cAMP.
Neurobehavioral toxicology is now established as a core discipline of the environmental health sciences. Despite its recognized scientific prowess, stemming from its deep roots in psychology and neuroscience and its acknowledged successes, it faces additional demands and challenges. The latter, in fact, are a product of its achievements because success at one level leads to new and higher expectations. Now the discipline is counted upon to provide more definitive and extensive risk assessments than in the past. These new demands are the basis for the appraisals presented in the SGOMSEC 11 workshop. They extend beyond what would be offered in a primer of methodology. Instead, these appraisals are framed as issues into which what are usually construed as methodologies have been embedded.

To survive the attacks of the internal defence system (IDS) of their host, parasites have developed various strategies to manipulate the IDS. We present evidence that the avian schistosome parasite Trichobilharzia ocellata affects gene expression in the granular cells, a cell type of the IDS of the intermediate host, the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis. From a differential screening, a clone was isolated encoding a protein named molluscan defence molecule (MDM), which encompasses five C2-like immunoglobulin (Ig) domains. The protein shares a domain organization and high amino acid sequence identity with hemolin, an Ig-family member of the insect IDS. Interestingly, both MDM and hemolin have highest sequence identity with neural cell adhesion molecules, but lack the typical fibronectin repeats and motifs for membrane anchors. We find that the expression of the MDM gene is gradually down-regulated during the course of parasitosis to approximately 21% compared to the non-parasitized level, 8 weeks post-infection. Based on our findings, we suggest that MDM is involved in the proper function of the Lymnaea IDS, and that down-regulation of MDM is part of the parasite-induced disabling on non-self recognition.
Synaptic excitability in the lateral septum (LS) was assessed electrophysiologically in freely moving mice either submitted to a painful stimulus (shock) or tested on two forms of conditioned fear: contextual conditioning and auditory cue conditioning. Only the amplitude of the N3 component of the two negative waves (N2 and N3) evoked by fimbrial stimulation displayed significant changes in these tests. Experiment 1 showed that both the painful stimulus and subsequent re-exposure (24 h later) to the conditioning foreground context induced significant and context specific decrease in the N3 amplitude. In Experiment 2, a phasic tone (conditioned stimulus: CS) was paired (paired group) with the footshock (unconditioned stimulus: US) or not (unpaired group) and, 24 h later, animals were re-exposed successively to the auditory cue and to the context. During the auditory cue test, only the paired group displayed significant freezing and this occurred only during presentation of the CS. In this group, however, a significant reduction in the N3 amplitude was only observed immediately after the cessation of the CS. During the context test, the percentage and time-course of freezing across the 10 mm session were similar in each group. However, in the unpaired group the N3 amplitude reduction was significant and outlasted the duration of the freezing behaviour itself. These results show that alterations in LS synaptic excitability may be dissociated from fear-induced freezing behaviour. We suggest that LS synapses are part of a brain circuit that predict if and when the US is going to occur.
The morphological plasticity of an identified population of synaptic boutons in the rat neostriatum was investigated 24 h (short-term treatment) or 14 days (long-term treatment) after administration of the depot neuroleptic, haloperidol decanoate. Specific methionine(5)-enkephalin antiserum was used to label bouton profiles in the dorsal neostriatum. The size and shape of these boutons was subsequently analysed with quantitative methods at the ultrastructural level. Immunoreactive synaptic bouton profiles were found to have a larger cross-sectional area, to be less circular in shape and to have a longer maximum diameter after long-term neuroleptic treatment. These parameters were not significantly affected by short-term neuroleptic treatment. The morphological parameters indicate that methionine(5)-enkephalin-immunoreactive boutons become enlarged, probably by elongating. This suggests that boutons containing methionine(5)-enkephalin increase their potential synaptic efficacy in the long term after neuroleptic treatment.
As medullary and spinal respiratory activities coexist in the in vitro brainstem spinal cord preparation from newborn rats previously deeply anaesthetized with diethyl ether, we sought evidence for reciprocal interactions between the medullary and spinal respiratory generators. A descending influence of medullary onto spinal respiratory generators has been characterized by the constant onset latency of the spinal burst within the corresponding medullary respiratory cycle. Non-harmonic (29%) and harmonic (9%) correlations were observed between the two phenomena, but correlations could also be low (27%) or absent (35%). Variations in the pH or FCO2 of the artificial cerebrospinal fluid were able to induce or suppress this medullary control of spinal respiratory activity. An ascending relationship between spinal and medullary respiratory generators has been revealed as a systematic variation of the medullary period due to resetting. Depending on the timing of the spinal respiratory activity, the medullary burst could be either advanced through a shortened medullary period, or delayed through a lengthened one. In conclusion, it was possible to show the existence of reciprocal relationships between the medullary and spinal respiratory generators in the in vitro brainstem spinal cord preparation from newborn rats. These results are interpreted in relation to the central interactions between locomotion and respiration in mammals which occur during rapid propulsion and which could be mediated by the spinal respiratory generator.
3-Nitropropionic acid (3-NP) irreversibly inhibits the activity of the mitochondrial enzyme succinate dehydrogenase, leading to selective striatal lesions when administered in vivo. We studied the effects of 3-NP on dissociated cultures of neurons and glia with the following findings: (a) 3-NP killed cultured striatal neurons with a median lethal dose of 2.5 mM after 20 h of incubation in 20.0 mM glucose medium. Despite its selective toxicity in vivo, cultured striatal, hippocampal, septal, and hypothalamic neurons were similarly sensitive to 3-NP incubation. (b) 3-NP's effects were remarkably energy substrate dependent, with the median lethal dose dropping over an order of magnitude when glucose concentrations were lowered to 3.0 mM, a condition that was itself nontoxic. Cultures exposed to 3-NP had a far greater sensitivity to energy availability than those exposed to glutamate. (c) Recent work suggests that 3-NP toxicity may be partially mediated by excitotoxins. Our experiments show that neither kynurenic acid, a nonspecific glutamate receptor antagonist, nor the NMDA-receptor antagonist, DL-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid, either in combination or alone, reduced 3-NP toxicity in striatal cultures. However, the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist MK-801 did attenuate 3-NP toxicity.


Gene therapy may be a useful means of delivering substances to the brain that are capable of preventing neuronal degeneration. In the present experiment, we determined whether intraparenchymal transplants of primary autologous cells genetically modified to produce nerve growth factor (NGF) would prevent injury-induced degeneration of cholinergic neurons. Cultured primary monkey fibroblasts were genetically modified to produce human NGF, and secreted 13.2 ng NGF/10(6) cells/h in vitro. Adult monkeys then underwent fornix transections to induce degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, and received autologous grafts of either NGF-producing or control, beta-galactosidase-producing fibroblasts directly into the basal forebrain region. One month later, 61.7 +/- 8.9% of cholinergic neurons remained indentifiable in NGF-graft recipients compared to 26.2 +/- 5.0% in control graft recipients (P &lt; 0.02). Neuronal protection correlated with the accuracy of graft placement: up to 92% protection from neuronal degeneration occurred when NGF-secreting grafts were accurately placed immediately adjacent to injured neurons. Thus, intraparenchymal NGF delivery to the adult primate brain by gene transfer can prevent the degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. Gene therapy can target intraparenchymal brain sites for regionally specific neurotrophin delivery, thereby avoiding limitations imposed by diffusion of substances across the blood-brain barrier and through CNS parenchyma, while avoiding adverse effects of neurotrophic factors delivered in a non-directed manner to the central nervous system. The delivery of NGF by gene transfer to the brain merits further study as a means of preventing cholinergic neuronal degeneration in human disorders such as Alzheimer's disease.
The ease of isolating mutations in zebrafish will contribute to an understanding of a variety of processes common to all vertebrates. To facilitate genetic analysis of such mutations, we have identified DNA polymorphisms closely linked to each of the 25 centromeres of zebrafish, placed centromeres on the linkage map, increased the number of mapped PCR-based markers to 652, and consolidated the number of linkage groups to the number of chromosomes. This work makes possible centromere-linkage analysis, a novel, rapid method to assign mutations to a specific linkage group using half-tetrads.
This study demonstrates modulation by GM1 ganglioside of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1)-induced cAMP formation in Neuro-2a neuroblastoma cells. Pretreatment of the cells with neuraminidase, an enzyme that increases cell surface GM1, resulted in significant elevation of PGE1-induced cAMP formation, as did preincubation of the cells with nmolar concentrations of GM1. Pretreatment with brain ganglioside mixture lacking GM1 had no effect. Cholera toxin B subunit, a specific GM1-binding ligand, inhibited adenylyl cyclase. When the concentration of exogenous GM1 in which the cells were preincubated was increased from nmolar to mu molar levels there was a dose-responsive fall off in cAMP elevation, attributed to progressive inhibition of adenylyl cyclase by increasing GM1. These results are interpreted as indicating modulation of this PGE1 receptor in Neuro-2a cells by plasma membrane-localized GM1 in a structure-specific manner.
The mechanoelectrical transduction channels on hair cells have been suggested to be operated by tip links that are stretched when the hair bundle is deflected in the direction of the tallest row of stereocilia. Localising these channels is therefore an important test of this hypothesis. The transduction channels are known to be amiloride-sensitive and immunogold labelling with antibodies raised against the amiloride-sensitive epithelial Na+ channel from kidney (alpha NaCh), has suggested that sites with similar characteristics are located in the region where the tips of the shorter stereocilia appear to come into contact with the sides of the adjacent taller stereocilia rather than being associated directly with the tip links. Now, further immunocytochemical experiments have been performed to determine if amiloride and dihydrostreptomycin, both of which can block transduction, can affect this labelling. Immunofluorescent labelling of the stereocilia is obtained when surface preparations of the organ of Corti are fixed and incubated with alpha NaCh followed by an appropriate secondary antibody. This labelling is abolished by trypsinization prior to fixation but retained if the tissue is pretreated with amiloride and then trypsinized in its presence. Because amiloride is known to protect amiloride-binding sites from degradation by trypsin, these results suggest that alpha NaCh is revealing amiloride-binding sites on the stereocilia. Similarly, immunofluorescent labelling of the stereocilia is abolished if cochlear tissue is pretreated with dihydrostreptomycin (DHS) and fixed in its presence prior to incubation with alpha NaCh. Quantitative analysis of colloidal gold labelling using transmission electron microscopy shows that DHS treatment produces a significant reduction in the number of gold particles on stereocilia, especially in the region of contact between them. These results suggest that anti-Na+ recognises a site with characteristics similar to the mechanoelectrical transduction channels.
Mustached bats emit complex biosonar 'pulses' for echolocation. A delay of an echo from the emitted pulse carries target-distance information. At the auditory periphery, distance information is expressed by a time interval between the responses of neurons to the emitted pulse and its echo. In the auditory cortex (AC), however, it is mapped by 'FM-FM' neurons which are tuned to particular echo delays. FM-FM neurons have been found not only in the AC but also in the inferior colliculus (IC) of the midbrain and the medial geniculate body (MGB) of the thalamus. In the present study, we found that the IC has a precursor of the cortical echo-delay axis for the systematic representation of target-distance information and that the MGB shows the improved neural representation of target-distance information.
Out of 32 embryos flown (16 @ E2 + 16 @ E9) for 5 days, 16 survived. All sixteen E2 were dead at landing. Eight were opened and eight were incubated at 1.0G. Autopsy showed that 4 E2 survived over 24 hours in space. Eight E14 hatched without anatomical malformations, and 8 E14 were fixed. The height of the macular epithelia was 31 mu m (mean) in control and 26 mu m in flight chicks. The cross-sectional area of macular nuclei of control was 17 mu m(2) for hair cells and 14 mu m(2) in supporting cells. In flight, cross-sectional area was 17 mu m(2) in hair cells and 15 mu m(2) in supporting cells (n=250). The shape factor of cartilage cells (1.0 = perfect circle) between control (mean = 0.70) and flight (mean = 0.72), and the area of cartilaginous cells between controls (mean = 9 mu m(2)) and flight (mean = 9 mu m(2)) did not differ (n=300). The nuclei of support cells were closer to the basement membrane in flight than in control chicks. The immunoreactivity of otoconia with anti keratan, fibronectin or chrondroitin sulfate was not different between flight and control ears. There were more afferent fibers inside the macular epithelia of flight (p&lt;0.05) than control. Three of 8 flight animals had elevated vestibular thresholds (VT), with normal mean response amplitudes and latencies. Modified afferent innervation patterns requiring weeks to compensate are sufficient to elevate VT, and should be investigated further. Other reversible (sublethal) microgravity effects on sensory epithelia (vacuoles, swelling, etc) require quantification.

1. The morphological consequences of hypobaric hypoxia, exposure to reduced pressure atmospheres, were examined in the hippocampus of male Fischer 344 rats. Severe chronic hypoxia can produce permanent neuronal damage with hippocampal structures being especially vulnerable. 2. Hippocampal morphology was studied using histological observations after a 4 day exposure to sea level, 3500 m, or 6400 m. Two groups tested at 6400 m were sacrificed at different intervals following exposure, 72 and 144 h, to examine the effect of post-exposure time on neuronal damage. 3. Histological damage was observed in rats' brains following exposure to altitude, with cell degeneration and death increasing as altitude increased. In addition, it was found that the longer the time following exposure before sacrifice, the more noticeable the damage, suggesting delayed neurotoxicity. Increases in the number of damaged cells following altitude were significant for the CA3 region of one 6400 m group; however, other differences did not reach statistical significance. Rats exposed to altitude for 4 days ate less and lost significantly more weight than did animals at sea level. 4. It appears that 4 days of exposure to altitudes less than or equal to 6400 m does produce changes in the CA3 subfield, but the damage is different than that seen with other models of non-transient ischemia.
Hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia (HED), Clouston type, is an autosomal dominant skin disorder which is most common in the French-Canadian population and is characterized by hair defects, nail dystrophy and palmoplantar hyperkeratosis. Biophysical and biochemical studies conducted in HED suggested a molecular abnormality of keratins. We tested eight French-Canadian families segregating HED for linkage to microsatellite markers flanking the known keratin genes and were able to exclude linkage to these loci. Therefore, a genome-wide search for the HED gene was initiated. The first lod score above 3.00 was obtained with the marker D13S175 located in the pericentromeric region of chromosome 13q (Zmax = 8.12 at zero recombination). The cumulative lod scores were above 3.00 for six other markers in the region. A multipoint linkage analysis using the markers D13S175, D13S141 and D13S143 gave a maximum lod score of 11.12 at D13S141 with the one-lod-unit support interval spanning a 12.7 cM region which includes D13S175 and D13S141. Haplotype analysis allowed us to establish D13S143 as the telomeric flanking marker for the HED candidate region.
The effects of anoxia and reoxygenation on major antioxidant enzyme activities were investigated in vitro in immortalized rat brain endothelial cells (RBE4 cells). A sublethal anoxic period of 12 h was assessed for RBE4 cells using the neutral red uptake test. Anoxia markedly influenced the specific activity of catalase and superoxide dismutase, with no major effect on glutathione peroxidase or glutathione reductase. After 24 h postanoxia, the superoxide dismutase activity modulated by the presence or absence of oxygen returned to control value. Damage and recovery of RBE4 immortalized rat brain endothelial cells in culture after exposure to free radicals and other oxygen-derived species provides a useful in vitro model to study anoxia-reoxygenation trauma at the cellular level.
This retrospective chart review attempts to compare the utility, safety and efficacy of once daily (OD) versus divided dose (DD) lithium therapy in the prophylaxis of mood disorders. Sixty-six patients who met DSM-II1R criteria for mood disorders were grouped into those on OD Lithium (n=31) and those on DD lithium (n=35). The groups were matched on sociodemographic and clinical variables. The total daily dose was similar in the two groups, but the OD group tended to have higher serum lithium levels while the DD group tended to have a greater number of affective episodes during the period of follow up. The implications are discussed.

The nursing diagnosis movement has now reached many European countries and is rapidly being accepted as a method with which to advance the professional status of nursing as well as to define, structure, standardize and systematize nursing care. It is necessary that the import of Anglo-Saxon nursing concepts, theories and models are critically examined for cultural, contextual and philosophical appropriateness. In this article, we articulate and critically examine some of the assumptions implicit in nursing diagnosis, using examples from our clinical research in Sweden.

Recently, there has been a surge in the research regarding the pharmacologic and surgical treatment of Parkinson's disease. This article reviews the latest modes of medical and surgical therapy for Parkinson's disease. The latest drug therapy has consisted of levodopa, a combination of levodopa and carbidopa (Sinemet/Sinemet CR), and monoamine oxidase type B (MAO-B) inhibitors (selegiline hydrochloride). The surgical treatment modalities have been stereotaxic implantations of dopamine-producing tissues (such as adrenal medulla and fetal mesencephalon) into the caudate nucleus and ventral pallidotomy of patients with Parkinson's disease. The most recent work has been in the field of gene therapy. The implantation of cells genetically modified to express trophic factors and tyrosine hydroxylase for the synthesis of L-dopa from tyrosine has been proposed as a possible route for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Although the etiology of the disease is still unknown, two recent theories are discussed.
We have sought associations with the muscle acetylcholine receptor alpha-subunit gene (CHRNA1) in autoimmune myasthenia gravis (MG) patients from three ethnic groups; Caucasians and South Africans of Black and Mixed-Ancestry. We found a significant association with the HB*15 CA repeat allele in unrelated Black myasthenics (n = 18; RR = 2.85; pX2 = 0.04) compared with 52 ethnically matched controls. A family-based association study and linkage analysis in Caucasian simplex and multiplex families supported a positive association at this locus with the longer alleles, including HB*14 to *18. However, no significant cosegregation of the disease with the HB alleles could be demonstrated in affected sib pairs. Our results suggest that the CHRNA1 locus harbours a minor susceptibility gene for developing MG, though we cannot rule out linkage disequilibrium with another major gene locus on chromosome 2.

A case is presented of intracranial dural granulomata which appear to have developed as a reaction to surgical use of oxidised cellulose.
We report two cases of unrelated female heterozygotes for adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) who have developed progressive neurological disease. Both presented with a progressive myelopathy in midlife and one has since also developed a peripheral neuropathy. Both women had elevated very long chain fatty acid (VLCFA) levels. One patient has been on Lorenzo's oil for 2 years with normalisation of her plasma VLCFA assays but her condition has progressed relentlessly and the second discontinued Lorenzo's oil after 1 month due to unacceptable weight loss. Review of the literature reveals that significant neurological symptoms develop in 15-20% of female heterozygotes and that abnormalities on neurological examination occur in up to 55%. Despite a not excessively rare estimated gene frequency of 1 20,000 the diagnosis of a symptomatic heterozygote for ALD is rarely made in the absence of an affected male relative with most patients misdiagnosed as suffering from multiple sclerosis.
Little is known of the natural history and rate of sinus recanalisation after cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT). Although acute anticoagulation is effective, the duration of therapy remains speculative. We aimed to determine the relationship between sinus recanalisation and clinical outcome. We studied 12 consecutive patients with aseptic CVT with evidence of sinus thrombosis on initial magnetic resonance imaging, followed up 5-68 months after onset, using 15 repeat magnetic resonance scans in 9 of the patients to assess recanalisation. All patients initially had one or more thrombosed sinuses and were treated with anticoagulants for at least 6 months, including 3 with haemorrhagic infarction. Residual neurological deficits were present in only one patient. No patient had a recurrent thrombosis. Recanalisations was incomplete in 6 of the 9 cases. Sinus recanalisation after cerebral venous thrombosis does not correlate with clinical outcome. Although empirical, the general recommendation of 6 months anticoagulant therapy is appropriate.
Marc Raichle is a Professor in the Departments of Radiology, Neurology, and Neurobiology at the Washington University School of Medicine. He is also a Senior Fellow in the McDonnell Center for Studies of Higher Brain Function at Washington University. He received a B.S. and M.D. from the University of Washington in Seattle and his training in neurology at the New York Hospital-Cornell University Medical College where he was introduced to research on brain circulation and metabolism by Fred Plum and Jerry Posner. He joined the faculty of Washington University in 1971 after serving 2 years in the United States Air Force at the School of Aerospace Medicine. His research has focused, broadly, on studies of the brain circulation and metabolism as a means of understanding human brain function in health and disease. He has been active in the development of cognitive neuroscience, serving since its inception as an advisor to the McDonnell-PEW Program in Cognitive Neuroscience. In his spare time he is an amateur oboe/English horn player, sailor, and recreational high-altitude physiologist.
The natural acoustical environment contains many reflective surfaces that give rise to echoes, complicating the task of sound localization and identification. The barn owl (Tyto alba), as a nocturnal predator, relies heavily on its auditory system for tracking and capturing prey in this highly echoic environment. The external nucleus of the owl's inferior colliculus (ICx) contains a retina-like map of space composed of &quot;space-specific&quot; auditory neurons that have spatially limited receptive fields. We recorded extracellularly from individual space-specific neurons in an attempt to understand the pattern of activity across the ICx in response to a brief direct sound and a simulated echo. Space-specific neurons responded strongly to the direct sound, but their response to a simulated echo was suppressed, typically, if the echo arrived within 5 ms or less of the direct sound. Thus we expect there to be little or no representation within the ICx of echoes arriving within such short delays. Behavioral tests using the owl's natural tendency to turn their head toward a sound source suggested that owls, like their space-specific neurons, similarly localize only the first of two brief sounds. Naive, untrained owls were presented with a pair of sounds in rapid succession from two horizontally-separated speakers. With interstimulus delays of less than 10 ms, the owl consistently turned its head toward the leading speaker. Longer delays elicited head turns to either speaker with approximately equal frequency and in some cases to both speakers sequentially.
In a private/institutional setting the prevalence of Postconcussive Syndrome (PCS) symptoms and related etiologic factors was surveyed in 122 concussion and other craniofacial trauma patients (mean age 32 years; 68% male) and 122 uninjured controls (mean age 21 years; 45% males). A Neurobehavioral Symptom Checklist was used to measure 44 self-related symptoms, summed to yield Overall Frequency; number of symptoms rated as 3 or 4 were also summed separately to yield High Frequency scores. The Concussion group had significantly greater Overall Frequency and High Frequency scores than the other patients and the controls. The Brain Damage group had significantly greater High Frequency (but not Overall Frequency) scores than the controls. The presence of litigation, unemployment, or middle-age yielded significantly greater Overall Frequency scores in the patients; these variables in the control group were not measured. The presence of craniofacial fractures had no effect. Results suggest PCS symptoms are greatest in concussion patients with the presence of litigation, unemployment or middle age, and are less affected by injury severity.
Advances in the related fields of cognitive neuroscience and neuropsychology offer intriguing reformulations of the clinical entities of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and learning disabilities (LD). The definition of such terms as attention and learning used in cognitive neuroscience differ from their use in clinical practice and emphasize such processes as intention, working memory, and executive function. Research suggests that neither attention nor long-term memory are the critical cognitive correlates of ADHD or LD. Rather, encoding processes, particularly working memory, are identified as deficiencies for children with these conditions. Furthermore, intention and inhibition appear to be particularly impaired in children with ADHD, who exhibit broader deficits in so-called executive function. Findings from cognitive neuroscience offer explanations of the neuroanatomical and neurophysiological underpinnings of learning problems and the frequent comorbidity of LD and ADHD.
We have studied the insulin-like growth factor-II gene (IGF2) promoter usage in normal human liver from fetal to late adult life by quantifying the specific transcripts by RNase protection assays using exon-specific probes. While the fetal liver uses only three promoters (P2, P3, P4) for the transcription of IGF2, all four promoters can be used from the age of 2 months after birth. The levels of the individual promoter transcripts vary substantially during development and the P3 promoter, which is a highly active fetal promoter, was not used by all the investigated adult patients but was detected in 30% of the adult group as a whole. The P1 promoter, which has previously been considered as the only one responsible for IGF2 transcription in the postnatal/adult liver, displayed a trend of increasing relative and absolute activity throughout life, but in some adult cases it was found to be less active than the P4 promoter. The P4 promoter displayed an age-related trend of decreasing activity from a very high fetal level, but individual exceptions were apparent. The P2 promoter transcript, peaking at the age of 2 months, showed a relatively even absolute amount from 18 months onwards. Thus, while P2 and P3 were both found to reach their highest activity after birth, the P4 promoter displayed its highest transcription at the fetal stage. The total IGF2 transcription, primarily from P2, P3 and P4, was found to peak shortly after birth. After this age, the P3 promoter transcript declined most rapidly and a low or zero amount was detected in adulthood. From the age of 18 months to old adulthood the total IGF2 mRNA, derived primarily from P1, P2 and P4, displayed a relatively even amount (approximately one tenth) of that seen at the peak at 2 months. This data may be important in relation to translatability of the various IGF2 transcripts.

Ion permeation and conduction were studied using whole-cell recordings of the M-current (I(M)) and delayed rectifier (IDR), two K+ currents that differ greatly in kinetics and modulation. Currents were recorded from isolated bullfrog sympathetic neurons with 88 mM [K+]i and various external cations. Selectivity for extracellular monovalent cations was assessed from permeability ratios calculated from reversal potentials and from chord conductances for inward current. PRb/PK was near 1.0 for both channels, and GRb/GK was 0.87 +/- 0.01 for IDR but only 0.35 +/- 0.01 for I(M) (15 mM [Rb+]o or [K+]o). The permeability sequences were generally similar for I(M) and IDR: K+ approximately Rb+ &gt; NH4+ &gt; Cs+, with no measurable permeability to Li+ or CH3NH3+. However, Na+ carried detectable inward current for IDR but not I(M). Nao+ also blocked inward K+ current for IDR (but not IM), at an apparent electrical distance (delta) approximately 0.4, with extrapolated dissociation constant (KD) approximately 1 M at 0 mV. Much of the instantaneous rectification of IDR in physiologic ionic conditions resulted from block by Nao+. Extracellular Cs+ carried detectable inward current for both channel types, and blocked I(M) with higher affinity (KD = 97 mM at 0 mV for I(M), KD) approximately 0.2 M at 0 mV for IDR), with delta approximately 0.9 for both. IDR showed several characteristics reflecting a multi-ion pore, including a small anomalous mole fraction effect for PRb/PK, concentration-dependent GRb/GK, and concentration-dependent apparent KD's and delta's for block by Nao+ and Cso+. I(M) showed no clear evidence of multi-ion pore behavior. For I(M), a two-barrier one-site model could describe permeation of K+ and Rb+ and block by Cso+, whereas for IDR even a three-barrier, two-site model was not fully adequate.
Brown-Squard's concept of localization was built on the phenomena of inhibition and dynamogenesis, constituting a dynamic system in which reflex mechanisms, that played a part not only in the spinal cord but in the brain as well, were considered of particular importance. The use of this concept is considered in Brown-Squard's discussion of the subject of cerebral localization, and especially of aphasia. The origin and development of Brown-Squard's ideas on aphasia from 1861 onwards are discussed, as is the part he possibly played in the transfer of knowledge from Paris to London (Broca and Jackson). In the 1870's Brown-Squard debated on cerebral localization with Charcot before the Socit de Biologie. Opposing the cluster theory of localization, Brown-Squard developed the theory of &quot;rseau de cellules anastomoses&quot;, a kind of network theory in which scattered cells subserving the same function are connected by nerve fibers. This was to him a plausible theory, with which he was able to explain the fact that damage in several locations may produce the same effect, and, to account for observations that some functions remain unimpaired despite extensive brain-injury. Although Brown-Squard's arguments were not always valid, because they were based on imprecise observations, his dynamic model, nowadays, seems valuable. He influenced &quot;anti-localizers&quot; such as Goltz, but also Jackson and probably Von Monakow and Sherrington.
The contributions of Charles Edouard Brown-Squard (1817-1894) to the advancement of medical science included his emphasis on functional processes in the integrative action of the nervous system, his discovery of the vasomotor nerves, his experimental demonstration that the adrenal glands are esential to life, and his pioneering work on hormone replacement therapy. He is best remembered, however, for his work in delineating the sensory pathways in the spinal cord. His later work on the sensory function of the cord emphasized dynamic spinal mechanisms that may well have major implications for the rehabilitation of patients with cord injuries.
We show that nitric oxide (NO) from applied NO-donating chemicals induces collapse of ganglion cell axonal growth cones extending from explants of tadpole retina in culture. Peroxynitrite, a neurotoxic product of NO and superoxide reaction, did not induce collapse, and oxyhemoglobin, which binds NO, blocked the highly effective collapsing activity of the NO donor S-nitrosocysteine. Membrane-permeable analogs of cyclic guanosine monophosphate had no collapsing activity. Inhibitors of NO synthase did not induce collapse. NO is a potential retrograde messenger through which postsynaptic neurons signal to their inputs to modify synaptic efficacy following NMDA receptor activation. Our results suggest a role for NO as such a messenger during development of the retinotectal projection.
Age-related changes in the expression of Na, K-ATPase alpha1- and alpha3-isoform mRNAs were analyzed by in situ hybridization in the Fischer-344 rat hippocampus. Quantification of signal density with cRNA probes in rat hippocampus at 3 months of age showed (a) alpha1 content is 1.5 times higher in granule than in pyramidal cell layers, whereas alpha3 content shows the opposite ratio and (b) alpha3 label is found in large clusters related to mossy cells and basket cells and in medium clusters corresponding to interneurons within the dendritic fields of CA1-3. In the 24-month-old rats as compared with the young animals, the alpha1 signal is increased more than sevenfold in the dendritic fields and is not significantly changed in the perikaryal layers. The alpha3 signal is reduced about threefold (p&lt;0.0001, ANOVA, n=6) in perikaryal layers, is almost completely absent over interneurons, basket cells, and mossy cells, and is not significantly changed in dendritic fields. These data indicate age-related, cell- and isoform-specific alterations in pretranslational regulation of Na,K-ATPase a isoforms. The striking changes in the dendritic fields, mossy cells, and GABAergic basket cells and interneurons may constitute early and sensitive markers for age related alterations in hippocampal function, before cell loss.
To investigate the cellular mechanisms regulating neurofilament-heavy subunit (NF-H) side-arm phosphorylation, we studied the ability of three putative neurofilament kinases, glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3)alpha, GSK-3 beta, and cyclin-dependent kinase-5 (cdk-5), to phosphorylate NF-H in transfected cells. We analysed NF-H phosphorylation by using a panel of phosphorylation-dependent antibodies and also by monitoring the electrophoretic mobility of the transfected NF-H on sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis because this is known to be affected by side-arm phosphorylation. Our results demonstrate that whereas GSK-3 alpha, GSK-3 beta, and cdk-5 will all phosphorylate NF-H, they generate different antibody reactivity profiles. GSK-3 alpha and GSK-3 beta induce a partial retardation of a proportion of the transfected NF-H, but only cdk-5 alters the rate of electrophoretic migration to that of NF-H from brain. We conclude that cdk-5 and GSK-3 phosphorylate different residues or sets of residues within NF-H sidearm in cells. We further show that cdk-5 is active in both the CNS and the PNS but that this activity is not dependent on expression of its activator, p35. This suggests that there are other activators of cdk-5.
In developing chicken brain Ca2+/calmodulin-stimulated protein kinase II (CaMPK-II) changes from being primarily cytosolic to being primarily particulate during the protracted maturation period. To investigate whether thyroid hormone levels may be involved in regulating this subcellular redistribution, we raised chickens from 1 day posthatching on food soaked in 0.15% (wt/vol) propylthiouracil (PTU) plus 0.05% (wt/vol) methimazole (MMI). This produced a mild hypothyroidism specifically during the maturation period and resulted in a 67% reduction in the levels of free triiodothyronine (T3) at 42 days. The concentrations of alpha- and beta-CaMPK-II in cytosol (S3) and crude synaptic membrane (P2M) fractions from forebrain were measured by three methods: Ca2+/calmodulin- or ZN2+-stimulated autophosphorylation or binding of biotinylated calmodulin. By all three methods hypothyroid animals showed a marked retardation of the redistribution of both subunits of CaMPK-II: an increase in the concentration of the enzyme in S3 and a corresponding decrease in P2M with no overall change in the total amount of enzyme and little apparent change in the concentration of other proteins. In both fractions, there was a parallel change in the Ca2+/calmodulin-stimulated phosphorylation of endogenous protein substrates but no change in the basal or cyclic AMP-stimulated protein phosphorylation. Supplementing the PTU/MMI-treated diet with thyroxine (0.5 ppm) prevented all of the observed changes.
This study used regional differences in plasma concentrations of norepinephrine and its metabolites to examine how production of the transmitter by sympathetic nerves, in particular, those innervating mesenteric organs, is integrated with metabolism by the liver and elimination by the kidneys. Higher concentrations of norepinephrine, its glycol metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol and their sulfate conjugates in portal venous than arterial plasma indicate substantial production of norepinephrine by mesenteric organs (15.5 nmol/min). Much lower concentrations of norepinephrine and its glycol metabolites in plasma leaving than entering the liver indicate their efficient hepatic removal (20 nmol/min). Higher concentrations of vanillylmandelic acid in the hepatic outflow than inflow indicate that this metabolic end product is produced largely from the norepinephrine and glycol metabolites removed by the liver. Renal elimination of vanillylmandelic acid (18-20 nmol/min), produced mainly by the liver (17 nmol/min), and of 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol sulfate (7-9 nmol/min), produced largely by mesenteric organs (7 nmol/min), compromised 86-91% of the total renal elimination of norepinephrine metabolites. The results show that mesenteric organs produce about one-half of the norepinephrine formed in the body. The liver removes substantial amounts of circulating norepinephrine and its glycol metabolites and converts these compounds to vanillylmandelic acid, which is then eliminated from the body by the kidneys. The sulfate conjugates are also metabolic end products eliminated by the kidneys. However, these metabolites are produced by extrahepatic tissues, in particular, mesenteric organs, which represent a significant source of sulfate-conjugated norepinephrine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol, and the main source of sulfate-conjugated 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol.
Neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) is involved in cell-cell interactions during synaptogenesis, morphogenesis, and plasticity of the nervous system. Disturbances in synaptic restructuring and neural plasticity may be related to the pathogenesis of several neuropsychiatric diseases, including mood disorders and schizophrenia. Disturbances in brain cellular function may alter concentrations of N-CAM in the CSF. Soluble human N-CAM proteins are detectable in the CSF but are minor constituents of serum. We have recently found an increase in N-CAM content in the CSF of patients with schizophrenia. Although the pathogenesis of both schizophrenia and mood disorders is unknown, ventriculomegaly, decreased temporal lobe volume, and subcortical structural abnormalities have been reported for both disorders. We have therefore measured N-CAM concentrations in the CSF of patients with mood disorder. There were significant increases in amounts of N-CAM immunoreactive proteins, primarily the 120-kDa band, in the CSF of psychiatric inpatients with bipolar mood disorder type I and recurrent unipolar major depression. There were no differences in bipolar mood disorder type II patients as compared with normals. There were no significant effects of medication treatment on N-CAM concentrations. It is possible that the 120-kDa N-CAM band present in the CSF is derived from CNS cells as a secreted soluble N-CAM isoform. Our results suggest the possibility of latent state-related disturbances in N-CAM cellular function, i.e., residue from a previous episode, or abnormal N-CAM turnover in the CNS of patients with mood disorder.
Dystoroglycan is encoded by a single gene and cleaved into two proteins, alpha and beta-dystroglycan, by posttranslational processing. The 120kDa peripheral nerve isoform of alpha-dystroglycan binds laminin-2 comprised of the alpha 2, beta 1, and gamma 1 chains. In congenital muscular dystrophy and dy mice deficient in laminin alpha 2 chain, peripheral myelination is disturbed, suggesting a role for the dystroglycan- laminin interaction in peripheral myelinogenesis. To begin to test this hypothesis, we have characterized the dystroglycan-laminin interaction in peripheral nerve. We demonstrate that (1) alpha-dystroglycan is an extracellular peripheral membrane glycoprotein that links beta-dystroglycan in the Schwann cell outer membrane with laminin-2 in the endoneurial basal lamina, and (2) dystrophin homologues Dp116 and utrophin are cytoskeletal proteins of the Schwann cell cytoplasm. We also present data that suggest a role for glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan in the interaction with laminin.
In the CNS, nitric oxide (NO) functions as both neuromodulator and neurotoxic agent. In vivo neuronal expression of NO synthase (NOS) has been attributed to constitutive NOS--both the neuronal and the endothelial types. The other class of NOS--the inducible NOS (iNOS)--is known to mediate toxic effects of NO in various tissues. In this study, we show for the first time that direct intracerebellar injection of endotoxin and cytokine (lipopolysaccharide and interferon-gamma) induced in vivo neuronal expression of the iNOS gene, as demonstrated by fluorescent in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical staining analyzed by confocal laser-scanning microscopy. This raises the possibility that neuronal iNOS might contribute significantly to the vulnerability of the brain to various insults.
We investigated the rapid and slow effects of NaF on intracellular signaling systems such as Ca2+ homeostasis and cyclic GMP (cGMP) generation in rat glioma C6 cells, using the Ca2+-sensitive dye fura-2 and cGMP enzyme immunoassay. We found that the following: (a) NaF enhanced cGMP generation in a concentration-dependent manner. This enhancement was abolished by pretreatment with 100 microM BAPTA tetraacetoxymethal ester or in the presence of W-7 in a concentration-dependent manner. N G-Monomethyl-L-arginine (NMMA), a competitive inhibitor or nitric oxide synthase (NOS), also inhibited the NaF-induced generation of cGMP. These results suggest that NaF-induced cGMP generation occurs via a calcium/calmodulin- and NOS-dependent pathway. (b) The basal intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) was transiently greater at 1 and 3 h after pretreatment with NaF. W-7 and W-13 antagonized the increase in [Ca2+]i, whereas NMMA had little effect. This suggests that the NaF-induced change in basal [Ca2+] was mediated by a calmodulin-dependent pathway but was independent of a NOS-sensitive pathway. (c) The serotonin (5-HT)-induced intracellular mobilization of Ca2+ was reduced by pretreating the cells with NaF. The reduction in Ca2+ mobilization was antagonized by genistein, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor. W-7, W-5, and H-8 had no effect. Results suggest that NaF differentially regulated the cGMP generation. basal [Ca2+]i, and 5-HT2A receptor function in C6 glioma cells.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE), a highly conserved enzyme in the animal kingdom, is distributed throughout a wide range of vertebrate tissues where it is expressed as multiple molecular forms comprising different arrangements of catalytic and structural subunits. The major AChE form in the CNS is an amphiphilic globular tetramer (G4 AChE) consisting of four identical catalytic subunits attached to cellular membranes by a hydrophobic noncatalytic subunit (P-subunit). This study focuses primarily on current data involving the structure of the G4 AChE P-subunit, the expression and regulation of G4 AChE during development and adulthood, and its role(s) in certain neurological disorders including Alzheimer's disease.
In an open prospective study we analysed the effect of treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin (IvIg) in three patients with clinically pure sensory neuropathy, two of whom met the clinical, electrophysiological, pathological and cerebrospinal fluid research criteria of the American Academy of Neurology for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy. In all patients, subclinical signs of demyelination were present in motor nerves. Treatment with IvIg resulted in improvement of neurological functions in all three patients and in improvement of the disability score in two of them.


1. Spontaneous and stimulus-induced activity were recorded from corresponding somatotopic representations in the ventroposterolateral nucleus (VPL) of the thalamus and primary somatosensory (SI) cortex of intact, halothane-anesthetized cats. Thalamic and cortical neurons with overlapping receptive fields on the hairy skin of the forelimb were excited by a series of interleaved air jets aimed at multiple skin sites. 2. The laminar locations of 68% (240 of 355) of the neurons recorded in SI cortex were histologically reconstructed and responses of these 240 SI neurons were analyzed with respect to responses recorded from 118 thalamic neurons. Maximum responsiveness during the initial onset (1st 100 ms) of air jet stimulation was similar for neurons distributed throughout all layers of SI cortex (2-4 spikes per stimulus) and did not differ significantly from VPL responses. During the subsequent plateau phase of the stimulus, VPL neurons discharged at a mean rate of 19.0 spikes/ s and neurons in cortical layers II, IIIa, IIIb, and IV discharged at similar rates. Mean responsiveness during the plateau phase of the stimulus was significantly reduced among neurons in cortical layers V and VI and only averaged 7.1 and 3.9 spikes/s, respectively. 3. Responses recorded simultaneously from pairs of thalamic and cortical neurons were analyzed with cross-correlation analysis to determine differences in the incidence and strength of neuronal interactions as a function of cortical layer. Among 421 thalamocortical neuron pairs displaying stimulus-induced responses, 68 neuron pairs exhibited significant interactions during air jet stimulation. A laminar analysis revealed that 28% (45 of 163) of the neurons in the middle cortical layers displayed significant interactions with thalamic neurons, whereas only 14% (13 of 92) of superficial layer neurons and 6% (10 of 166) of deep layer neurons were synchronized with thalamic activity during air jet stimulation. When thalamocortical efficacy for different layers of cortex was plotted as a cumulative frequency distribution, the strongest interactions in the middle cortical layers were twice as strong as interactions involving the superficial or deep cortical layers. 4. More than 70% of stimulus-induced interactions involved thalamic discharges followed by subsequent cortical discharges and the majority of these interactions involved interspike intervals of &lt; or = 3 ms. Nearly 75% (27 of 37) of interactions in the thalamocortical direction that involved cortical neurons in layers IIIb and IV transpired within a 3-ms interspike interval. For interactions with superficial or deep cortical layers, the proportion of thalamocortical interactions transpiring within 3 ms was only 58% (7 of 12) and 33% (2 of 6), respectively. 5. Cross-correlation analysis of spontaneous activity indicated that 124 pairs of thalamic and cortical neurons displayed synchronous activity in the absence of sensory stimulation. A laminar analysis indicated that similar proportions of cortical neurons in each layer were synchronized with thalamic activity in the absence of cutaneous stimulation. Thus 27% (44 of 163) of middle layer neurons, 30% (28 of 92) of superficial layer neurons, and 31% (51 of 166) of deep layer neurons displayed spontaneous interactions with thalamic neurons. The temporal pattern of spontaneous activity was examined with autocorrelation analysis to determine whether neuronal oscillations were essential for coordinating thalamic and cortical activity in the absence of peripheral stimulation. Only 18.5% (23 of 124) of spontaneous interactions between thalamic and cortical neurons were associated with periodic activity, which suggests that thalamocortical synchronization occurs before the constituent neurons begin to oscillate. 6. The influence of sensory stimulation on spontaneous interactions was examined in 31 pairs of thalamic and cortical neurons that exhibited interactions during prestimulus and stimulus in
1. The physiology of ventral pallidal (VP) cells was investigated using in vivo intracellular recording and staining techniques in adult rats. Based on electrophysiological criteria, three different types of cells were found: type A cells, which fired phasic spikes that did not exhibit a substantial afterhyperpolarization (AHP), type B cells, which exhibited a slow ramplike depolarization that preceded the short-duration action potential; the spike was followed by a prominent AHP, and type C cells, which were the only cells that fired spikes in couplets or bursts, with the spikes in a burst exhibiting a progressive increase in duration and a decrease in amplitude. These cells also exhibited a rebound low threshold spikelike event. Furthermore, 18% of the VP cells recorded exhibited a slow subthreshold oscillation of the membrane potential (&lt; 1 Hz). 2. The response of VP cells to stimulation of fibers arising from the prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and mediodorsal thalamic nucleus (MD) was examined. In contrast to our initial predictions, all cells responded to nucleus accumbens stimulation with excitation. Type A and B cells responded to nucleus accumbens stimulation with excitation and to MD stimulation with antidromic-like responses, orthodromic excitation, or evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Only type A cells responded to prefrontal cortical stimulation. Type C cells only responded to stimulation of the nucleus accumbens, which resulted in evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials. 3. The cells in the VP therefore can be segregated into three physiologically defined groups according to action potential discharge patterns and their response to afferent fiber stimulation.

The development and regeneration of the peripheral nervous system (PNS) is highly dependent on the migration of Schwann cells and the extension of axons toward their distant targets. Plasminogen activators (PAs) are associated with the surface of several cell types of neural origin where they are believed to mediate localized degradation of extracellular matrix, thus facilitating cell motility. In this study, we characterize the expression of tissue-type (tPA) and urokinase (uPA) PAs, as well as the urokinase cell surface receptor (uPAR) during differentiation of cultured cells from mouse dorsal root ganglia. During the first day in culture, the mRNA levels of all three components increase from 75- to 163-fold, as shown using a quantitative PCR method. By 72 hr, the mRNA levels decrease and approach basal levels. This transient increase is in direct correlation with the differentiation of neurons and Schwann cells and the formation of a neuritic network in these regenerating cultures. Densitometric analysis of gel zymographs demonstrates that the elevation in mRNA levels is accompanied by similar increases in the activity levels of tPA and uPA. Interestingly, in situ hybridization studies of the cultures show that tPA mRNA is restricted to small sensory neurons, whereas uPA mRNA is localized predominantly in large sensory neurons. uPAR mRNA is expressed by both neuronal subpopulations and, to a lesser extent, by Schwann cells and fibroblasts. Taken together, these results further support a role for the PA system in facilitating axon extension and cell migration during development and regeneration of the PNS.
We developed a new approach to study single- and double-stranded DNA breaks during chronic, moderate excitotoxicity resulting from the inhibition of the glutamate transporter in cerebellar granule cell primary cultures. A 24 hr treatment of 2-week-old cultures with L-alpha-amino adipate (LAA), an inhibitor of the cerebellar glutamate uptake transporter, caused a gradual extracellular accumulation of endogenous glutamate that induced reversible morphological change of granule neurons but no neuronal cell death despite sustained, but moderate, elevations of the free intracellular calcium concentrations. Nick translation experiments on isolated nuclei or cells from cerebellar cultures chronically exposed to LAA revealed increased radioactive nucleotide incorporation indicative of DNA nicking. This LAA effect was dose-dependent and suppressed by NMDA receptor antagonists. Cultures treated for 24 hr with LAA and subjected to in situ nick translation showed an intense nuclear labeling of neurons but not glia, which could be abolished by MK801. A similar labeling was also observed in altered nuclei of granule neurons acutely exposed to high glutamate concentrations or undergoing an apoptotic cell death. Although the TUNEL labeling method detected no DNA double-strand breaks in LAA-treated cerebellar cultures, it displayed clear evidence of DNA damage during acute glutamate excitotoxicity or during apoptosis. However, Southern blot analysis of nuclear DNA revealed a DNA laddering only in apoptotic cell death. Our results demonstrate that DNA damage, characterized by DNA single-strand breaks, is an early event in chronic, moderate excitotoxicity. This type of DNA degradation, which appears before any nuclear morphological changes, is distinct from the massive DNA single- and/or double-strand damages observed during acute glutamate excitotoxicity or apoptosis.
It has been established that multiple types of Ca2+ channels participate in triggering neurotransmitter release at central synapses, but there is uncertainty about the nature of their combined actions. We investigated synaptic transmission at CA3-CA1 synapses of rat hippocampal slices and asked whether the dependence on omega-CTx-GVIA-sensitive N-type channels and omega-Aga-IVA-sensitive P/Q-type Ca2+ channels can be altered by physiological mechanisms. The reliance on multiple types of Ca2+ channels was not absolute but depended strongly on the amount of Ca2+ influx through individual channels, which was manipulated by prolonging the presynaptic action potential with the K+ channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) and by varying the extracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]o). We quantified the influence of spike broadening on Ca2+ influx through various Ca2+ channels by imposing mock action potentials on voltage-clamped cerebellar granule neurons. In field recordings of the EPSP in hippocampal slices, action potential prolongation increased the EPSP slope by 2-fold and decreased its reliance on either N-type or P/Q-type Ca2+ channels. The inhibition of synaptic transmission by N-type channel blockade was virtually eliminated in the presence of 4-AP, but it could be restored by lowering [Ca2+]o. These results rule out a scenario in which a significant fraction of presynaptic terminals rely solely on N-type channels to trigger transmission. The change in sensitivity to the neurotoxins with 4-AP could be explained in terms of a nonlinear relationship between Ca2+ entry and synaptic strength, which rises steeply at low [Ca2+]o, but approaches saturation at high [Ca2+]o. This relationship was evaluated experimentally by varying [CA2+]o in the absence and presence of 4-AP. One consequence of this relationship is that down-modulation of presynaptic Ca2+ channels by various modulators would increase the relative impact of spike broadening greatly.
Neuronal migration, differentiation, and synapse formation are developmental processes within the CNS significantly influenced by ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptor activity. Extracellular glutamate concentrations mediating this activity are regulated by transport proteins localized in neuronal and glial cell membranes. We have used in situ hybridization analysis with subtype-specific antisense-oligonucleotides to study the distribution of glia-specific excitatory amino acid transporter (mEAAT1 and mEAAT2) mRNAs during the later stages of embryogenesis and postnatal CNS development. Distinct but overlapping embryonic and postnatal patterns of localization were observed for the two transporter transcripts. Both mEAAT1 and mEAAT2 mRNAs were found during the peak period of gliogenesis (E15-E19) in the telencephalic and mesencephalic CNS proliferative zones. The overall expression of mEAAT1 mRNA diminished after the completion of cell migration, whereas mEAAT2 mRNA expression increased significantly during postnatal development. Interestingly, mEAAT2 transcript expression continued in the subventricular zone postnatally and persisted in this proliferative zone in the adult brain. From PO onward, mEAAT1 mRNA was present predominantly in the cerebellar Purkinje cell layer and at a much lower abundance in the cortex, hippocampus, basal nuclei, and septum, whereas from P7 onward, mEAAT2 mRNA expression increased throughout most of the neuraxis. Postnatally, transcripts for mEAAT1 and mEAAT2 were found in cell bodies, processes, and commissural white matter tracts of the CNS. The divergent temporal and spatial expression of EAAT subtypes and their persistence in mature fiber tracts and radial glia layers reveal that specific EAATs are likely to play multiple distinct roles in the developing and adult CNS, including the regulation of cell proliferation, axon-glia interactions, and neuronal survival.
A cholinergic locus has recently been identified consisting of a unique mammalian genomic arrangement containing the genes for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and a putative vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). Although transcripts for ChAT and VAChT protein have been localized in cholinergic neurons, little is known about the encoded VAChT protein. Here we describe production of highly specific rabbit polyclonal antibodies, generated using a VAChT C-terminus/glutathione-S-transferase fusion protein, and immunological characterization of the native VAChT protein. These antibodies specifically recognized full-length recombinant VAChT expressed in transfected HeLa cells by Western blotting, with the prominent immunoreactive band at 55 kDa. In rat brain homogenates, a single VAChT-immunoreactive band of approximately 70 kDa was predominant in known areas of cholinergic innervation, including striatum, cortex, hippocampus,and amygdala. Light microscopic immunocytochemistry revealed reaction product in cholinergic cell groups but not in noncholinergic areas. More significantly, immunoreactivity was also concentrated in axonal fibers in many regions known to receive prominent cholinergic innervation, such as cerebral cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, striatum, several thalamic nuclei, and brainstem regions. Electron microscopy using immunoperoxidase revealed that VAChT was localized in axon terminals, and using more precise immunogold techniques, to synaptic vesicles. In VAChT-positive perikarya, the immunogold particles were localized to the cytoplasmic face of the Golgi complex. These findings confirm that VAChT protein is expressed uniquely in cholinergic neurons, concentrated in synaptic vesicles, and at least for the C terminus, topologically oriented as predicted by models.
We present a method to perform simultaneous microdialysis with light reflectance imaging of neural activity in a discrete brain region of the freely behaving animal. We applied this method to the dorsal hippocampus of freely behaving cats to (1) measure extracellular glutamate and reflectance variations across a sleep-waking cycle, (2) assess spatially coherent neural activity changes accompanying local perfusion of cocaine and (3) measure local changes in cell volume induced by infusion of hyper- and hypo-osmotic solutions. Higher extracellular glutamate concentrations corresponded to higher imaged neural activity. Sequential images showed that cocaine perfusion elicited a propagating reflectance change as cocaine reached the tissue. Microperfusion of hypo-osmotic solution ( - 100 mOsm), which increases cell volume, decreased reflectance. Microperfusion of hyperosmotic sucrose solutions, which reduce cell volume, increased reflectance in a dose-dependent manner. The data indicate that reflectance imaging can measure changes in cell volume, and could, thus, measure neural activity through activity/cell volume corollaries. Combining microdialysis and optical imaging enables investigation of the neurochemical bases of spontaneous neural activity patterns within discrete brain nuclei.
A number of behavioral disturbances have been associated with epilepsy. This is particularly true of temporal lobe seizures. While many ictal behaviors such as automatisms and rhythmic movement of an extremity are recognized as seizure activity, many psychological and cognitive alterations are not appreciated as being related to epilepsy. An increased awareness of the range of possible behaviors associated with epilepsy will enhance the observations made by the neuroscience nurse and augment the information available for formulating a differential diagnosis and localizing the lesion. Appropriate explanation of the etiology and manifestation of temporal lobe seizures will also help educate the patient and family regarding the unusual behaviors which are part of this disorder and reassure them of the organic rather than psychiatric cause of the phenomena.

Nuclear factor-1 (NF-1) is a multifunctional protein that participates in both transcription and replication. NF-1 proteins exist as a family of proteins that share some common structural and functional features but also demonstrate organ and cell type specific expression. Based upon these characteristics, the family of NF-1 proteins is divided into four classes, A, B, C and D. Several NF-1 binding sites have been identified in the regulatory sequences of the human polyomavirus, JCV, which multiplies most efficiently in glial cells derived from human fetal brain. Nuclear proteins from these cultures bind specifically to these NF-1 sites. It is not known, however, which member(s) of the NF-1 family is expressed in cells susceptible to JCV infection. We have examined glial cells as well as HeLa cells, which are not permissive to JCV, for NF-1 expression. By RT-PCR analysis, all four classes of NF-1 are expressed in human fetal glial cells and HeLa cells. However, by Northern analysis the expression of class D gene is much higher in the glial cells than HeLa cells. Expression of the class C gene, first identified in HeLa cells as NF-1/CTF1, is barely detectable in glial cells but highly expressed in HeLa cells. The screening of cDNA libraries from two early human brain tissues resulted in the identification of a number of clones which appear to be related and belong to a single class of the NF-1 family, class D. Nucleotide sequence of one clone, designated NF-1/AT1, confirms this. The NF-1/AT1 protein was overexpressed in E coli and found to bind specifically to an NF-1 probe by gel shift analysis. Southern analysis of human fetal glial cells indicates that the NF-1/AT1 gene, class D, is derived from a different gene than NF-1/CTF1. These results suggest the possibility that genes or viruses, like JCV, which use NF-1 for their expression in human brain derived cells may preferentially use the NF-1 class D protein.
It has been found that a domain composed of 330 amino acids of the N terminus of murine coronavirus spike protein [S1N(330)] is involved in receptor-binding activity (H. Kubo, Y.K. Yamada, and F. Taguchi, J. Virol. 68:5403-5410, 1994). To delineate the amino acid sequences involved in receptor-binding activity, we have compared the S1N(330) proteins of seven different mouse hepatitis virus MHV strains that are able to utilize the MHV receptor protein. Three conserved regions (sites I, II, and III) were found to consist of more than 10 identical amino acids, and they were analyzed for receptor-binding activity by site-directed mutagenesis. S1N(330) with a substitution at position 62 from the N terminus of S1 in region I and that with substitutions at positions 212, 214, and 216 in region II showed no receptor-binding activity. The S1N(330) mutants without receptor-binding activity were not able to prevent virus binding to the receptor. These results suggest that the receptor-binding site on S1N(330) is composed of regions located apart from each other in the protein's primary structure, in which Thr at position 62 as well as amino acids located at positions 212, 214, and 216 are particularly important.
The cerebral cortex can be looked upon as a non-linear system of coupled oscillators that tries to resist desynchronization and seeks to optimize the activity distribution of its elements. Cortical self-optimization can be disturbed by incoming nervous activity and the cortex will compensate for it by reorganizing the state of the soma, thus producing behavior. This simple concept would not explain mental processes that run within the cortex. It is proposed to relate mental processes to somatic behavior. Emotions, visual images, dreams, thoughts, memories, and anticipations could be perceived from the activity of respiratory, orofacial, and eye muscles. In their basic nature, mental processes may not differ from auditory, visual or visceral sensations. It is the peripheral soma that determines our mind and behavior; the task of the cortex is to line up somatic states. This philosophy could provide a new framework for data and results emanating from different fields of the neuroscience.
Within seconds after the flagella of mt+ and mt- Chlamydomonas gametes adhere during fertilization, their flagellar adenylyl cyclase is activated several fold and preparation for cell fusion is initiated. Our previous studies indicated that early events in this pathway, including control of adenylyl cyclase, are regulated by phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. Here, we describe a soluble, flagellar protein kinase activity that is regulated by flagellar adhesion. A 48-kDa, soluble flagellar protein was consistently phosphorylated in an in vitro assay in flagella isolated from nonadhering mt+ and mt- gametes, but not in flagella isolated from mt+ and mt- gametes that had been adhering for 1 min. Although the 48-kDa protein was present in the flagella isolated from adhering gametes, we demonstrate that its protein kinase was inactivated by flagellar adhesion. Immunoblot analysis and inhibitor studies indicate that the 48-kDa protein in nonadhering gametes is phosphorylated by a protein tyrosine kinase. In vivo experiments showing that the protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor sodium orthovanadate inhibits fertilization suggest that protein dephosphorylation may be required for signal transduction. The 48-kDa protein and its protein kinase may be among the first elements of a novel signalling pathway that couples interaction of flagellar adhesion molecules to gamete activation.


The most characteristic features of bipolar affective disorder (manic-depressive illness) are episodes of mania (bipolar I, BPI) or hypomania (bipolar II, BPII) interspersed with periods of depression. Manic-depressive illness afflicts about one percent of the population, and if untreated, is associated with an approximately 20% risk of suicide. Twin, family and adoption studies provide compelling evidence for a partial genetic aetiology, but the mode(s) of inheritance has not been identified. Nonetheless, the majority of genetic linkage studies have assumed classical mendelian inheritance attributable to a single major gene. Although segregation analyses have yielded inconsistent results (with most studies rejecting a single locus inheritance model), the best single gene model is dominant inheritance if only BPI is considered. Reported linkages of bipolar affective disorder on chromosomes 11, 18, 21 and X have been difficult to substantiate, and additional studies are required for replication or exclusion of these regions. We now present the results of our genome-wide linkage analyses that provide evidence that regions on chromosomes 6, 13 and 15 harbour susceptibility loci for bipolar affective disorder, suggesting that bipolar affective disorder in the Old Order Amish is inherited as a complex trait.

We examined the effects of exogenous 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and selective 5-HT receptor agonists and antagonists on proximal, middle and distal colonic motility in conscious fasted dogs with extraluminal force transducers implanted chronically. 5-HT (0.003-0.1 mg/kg i.v.) dose-dependently enhanced motility along the entire length of the colon. The 5-HT (0.03 mg/kg i.v.)-induced response was inhibited by 0.1-1.0 mg/kg i.v. methysergide, a 5-HT1/2 antagonist, at all recording sites and by 0.1-1.0 mg/kg i.v. ketanserin, a 5-HT2A antagonist, at the middle and distal sites only. At 1 mg/kg i.v., YM060, a 5-HT3 antagonist, reduced the amplitude of the initial transient high-amplitude contractions induced by 5-HT, but did not affect the tonic contraction induced by 5-HT. At doses up to 3 mg/kg i.v., 2-methoxy-4-amino-5-chlorobenzoic acid 2-(diethylamino) ethyl ester (SDZ205-557), a 5-HT4 antagonist, and hexamethonium (up to 10 mg/kg i.v.) did not affect 5-HT-induced responses at any recording site. Renzapride, a 5-HT4 agonist, also stimulated motility along the entire length of the colon at 0.3 mg/kg i.v.. The renzapride-induced response was inhibited by 1 mg/kg i.v. SDZ205-557 or 3 mg/kg i.v. hexamethonium. m-Chlorophenylbiguanide (m-CPBG), a 5-HT3 agonist, (1 mg/kg i.v.) produced a transient high-amplitude contraction at all recording sites and this contraction was eliminated by pretreatment with 0.03 mg/kg i.v. YM060. The contraction produced by m-CPBG declined rapidly, so the increase in the motility index by m-CPBG was not significant at any recording site. Of the antagonists tested, 0.1-1 mg/kg i.v. methysergide produced a delayed and prolonged contractile response at the middle and distal sites. The onset of the response was delayed about 20 min after application and the response was maintained over the subsequent 60-min observation period. The methysergide (1 mg/kg i.v.)-induced response was inhibited by 3 mg/kg i.v. hexamethonium. The other antagonists, ketanserin, YM060 and SDZ205-557, had no contractile effect at any recording site. These results indicate that exogenous 5-HT stimulates motility along the entire length of the fasted canine colon and that 5-HT-induced responses in the proximal colon are mediated mainly by 5-HT1, whereas those in the middle and distal colon are mediated by both 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 receptors. Renzapride and methysergide also stimulate colonic motility via additional mechanisms. The activation of 5-HT4 receptors and the blockade of endogenous 5-HT inhibitory regulation via 5-HT1 receptors may be involved in the action of renzapride and methysergide respectively.
We have studied the effects of various cations on [3H]MK-801 binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in membrane preparations of the rat cerebral cortex. Low concentrations of Tris, K+, Na+, Mg2+, and Ca2+ enhanced submaximally stimulated [3H]MK-801 binding. At high concentrations, all compounds inhibited [3H]MK-801 binding, possibly by a direct competitive effect. H+ decreased the observed association rate of [3H]MK-801 binding observed as a decreased [3H]MK-801 binding under nonequilibrium conditions, apparently by decreasing the sensitivity of the glutamate and glycine effects on the association rate. In addition, Tris, Na+, Mg2+, and possibly K+ at very high concentrations, permitted glutamate and glycine to decrease [3H]MK-801 binding, probably reflecting a decreased affinity of [3H]MK-801 binding. In contrast, Ca2+ and H+ antagonized these glutamate- and glycine-induced decreases of [3H]MK-801 binding observed in the presence of Mg2+, possibly by a direct competitive action on the permissive Mg2+ effect. These Ca2+ and H(+)-induced increases in [3H]MK-801 binding in the presence of Mg2+ may correspond to an increase in the potency of the Mg2+ block.
Bullfrog tadpoles at metamorphic stages V, X and XVIII were immersed in 25 nM triiodothyronine (T3) to assess whether the 4-5 fold increase in fast axonal transport (FAxT) previously observed during this span of spontaneous metamorphosis (1) could be mimicked by precocious application of thyroid hormone. The trend initially observed was for T3 to stimulated [35S]methionine incorporation into lumbar DRG and inhibit incorporation in tail DRG. Both effects, however, appeared to be exerted primarily on satellite cells rather than neurons since most of the T3-induced changes in DRG were of a similar magnitude to those in the respective nerve trunks. Findings consistent with this observation resulted from use of the retrogradely transported lectin, ricin120, to determine the proportion of DRG incorporation occurring in neurons. When incorporation of [35S]methionine in lumbar DRG neurons was examined, T3 had no stimulatory effect at any of the metamorphic stages examined. When FAxT was assessed as [35S]protein accumulating proximal to a nerve trunk ligature, and expressed as a percentage of newly-synthesized protein in lumbar DRG neurons, no stimulatory effect of T3 was detected. The question remains whether the changes in FAxT in peripheral neurons observed during spontaneous metamorphosis may be induced by circulating hormones other than T3 or are secondary to changes in the target tissues.
This study was undertaken to characterize the enzymatic properties of the particulate guanylyl cyclase previously shown to be present at a high level of activity in purified rat brain myelin. Significant activation was achieved by both Lubrol-PX and Triton X-100, the latter being somewhat more effective. A pH optimum of 7.8 was observed, compared to 7.4 for microsomes. Employing 1.2 mM GTP with 1% Triton X-100, linearity of response was observed up to 60 min and approximately 1.2 mg of myelin protein. Kinetic analysis revealed Km values of 0.258mM and 0.486mM for myelin and microsomes, respectively, similar values being obtained by Lineweaver-Burke analysis or Direct Linear Plot. Vmax values were 20 and 266 pmol/mg protein/min for myelin and microsomes, respectively. Washing of the myelin with 0.5 M NaCl or 0.1% Na taurocholate did not remove a significant amount of guanylyl cyclase activity, indicating the enzyme to be intrinsic to the myelin sheath.
Cortical activation during arithmetic calculation (silent subtraction by sevens) was compared to that observed during a control condition for which subjects were required to count forward by ones. Nine normal subjects underwent 1.5-T functional magnetic resonance imaging while performing these tasks. All subjects showed bilateral premotor, posterior parietal, and prefrontal cortex activation during serial calculation. There was a large degree of individual variation in activation outside of these areas. These results confirm the role of posterior parietal cortex in arithmetic calculation and implicate other regions, including prefrontal cortex.

Carbon monoxide (CO) is an activator of soluble guanylyl cyclase and is implicated as a neuronal messenger. CO production, nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity, and guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) levels were quantitated in cerebellar granule cell cultures. Metabolic labeling experiments enabled the direct measurement of neuronal CO production in vitro. CO production is significant, and peaked during early stages of culture. NOS activity and cGMP levels synchronously increased as cells matured. Whereas inhibition of NOS depleted cGMP in mature cultures, inhibitors of CO production potentiated the nitric oxide (NO)-mediated cGMP increase. Exogenous CO at similar concentrations to endogenous levels blocked the NO-mediated cGMP increase. These results directly demonstrate that endogenous neuronal CO production is high and indicate that while NO is the major regulator of cGMP in these neurons, CO may modulate the NO-cGMP signaling system.
It has been hypothesized that the direction of synaptic weight change elicited by synaptic activity depends on the magnitude of the activity-dependent rise in intracellular Ca2+ concentration. Several aspects of this hypothesis were examined at the Schaffer collateral CA1 synapse, where both long-term depression (LTD) and long-term potentiation (LTP) can be elicited and are Ca2+ dependent. Brief tetanic stimulation, which normally generated LTP, could induce LTD when Ca2+ entry via NMDA receptors was limited either by moderate concentrations of D-APV or by voltage clamping cells at negative membrane potentials. Repetitive activation of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels in the absence of afferent stimulation could also elicit an LTD that was Ca2+ dependent and was occluded by prior generation of homosynaptic LTD using prolonged low evidence that the minimal requirements for inducing LTD involve simply a transient influx of Ca2+ into the postsynaptic cell, via either NMDA receptors or voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels.
Inhibition of the reduction of the redox dye 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide by rat phaeochromocytoma PC12 cells is a specific, early response to nanomolar concentrations of the beta-amyloid peptide fragment beta (25-35), and appears to be a reliable indicator of the mechanism of beta-amyloid toxicity. Neither selective tachykinin receptor agonists, nor tachykinin receptor peptide and non-peptide antagonists elicited such a response. Furthermore, tachykinin receptor peptides did not block the effects of beta-amyloid in PC12 cells, or in two other beta-amyloid-sensitive cell lines. These experimental model systems allow the mechanism of action of beta-amyloid to be distinguished from that of tachykinin receptor peptides, and prove that the neurotoxic action of beta-amyloid, as measured by the inhibition of cellular 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide reduction is not mediated by an interaction with tachykinin receptors.
Responses of the human alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha 7 nAChR) expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes were quantified in the presence of barium (10 mM) to prevent secondary activation of Ca(2+)-dependent Cl- currents and atropine (2 microM) to block endogenous muscarinic receptors. Acetylcholine (ACh) elicited responses with EC50 values of 177 +/- 32 microM to 272 +/- 26 microM in different experiments. Responses to ACh (200 microM) were blocked by the nAChR antagonists alpha-bungarotoxin (IC50 = 0.54 +/- 0.04 nM), methyllycaconitine (IC50 = 0.64 +/- 0.08 nM) and mecamylamine (IC50 = 1.8 +/- 02 microM). Additionally, MK-801, a non-competitive blocker of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) sensitive glutamate receptor channels, inhibited the human alpha 7 nAChR. This effect was not stereoselective; the IC50 for (+)-MK-801 was 15 +/- 3 microM while that for (-)-MK-801 was 14 +/- 3 microM. The inhibition by MK-801, in contrast to methyllycaconitine, was dependent upon cell potential, consistent with a mechanism involving channel blockade. The inhibition by MK-801 reversed slowly (time constant approximately 20 min) compared to that by methyllycaconitine (100% recovery within 10 min). However, MK-801 did not appear to be trapped in the channel because the recovery from inhibition showed little dependence upon stimulation rate or cell potential. Thus, MK-801 acted as a non-stereoselective alpha 7 nAChR inhibitor that was only about 8-fold less potent than the nAChR antagonist mecamylamine and probably acted through channel blockade.
In the present investigation, anti-nociceptive effects of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (NAChR) ligands, (+)- and (-)-nicotine, cytisine, methylcarbamylcholine (MCC), dimethylphenylpiperazinium iodide (DMPP), and (+/-)-epibatidine were evaluated in the rat tail-flick assay both after subcutaneous (s.c.) and intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration. The pharmacology of the tail-flick response to NAChR ligands after s.c. and i.c.v. routes was similar. Epibatidine was the most potent ligand examined with a longer duration of action than any other agonist. (-)-Nicotine was more active than (+)-nicotine indicating stereospecificity. ICV administration studies indicated an apparent partial agonist activity for (+)-nicotine in the tail-flick response. Tail-flick responses to NAChR agonists are independent of opioid and muscarinic pathways and appear to be mediated both by central and peripheral NAChR recognition sites. Central administration of MCC activates both NAChR and muscarinic anti-nociceptive mechanisms. Studies employing the alpha-adrenergic receptor alkylating agent, phenoxybenzamine or the noradrenergic neurotoxin, N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4), suggested that the NAChR-noradrenergic and NAChR-serotoninergic interactions play an important role in the tail-flick response. Studies employing a selective alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive NAChR receptor antagonist, methyllycaconitine (MLA), suggested a minimal role for these receptors in the tail-flick response. The biochemical studies also indicated that a sub-population of NAChR receptors are located pre-synaptically on noradrenergic and/or serotoninergic pathways in the hippocampus.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle reflex is an operational measure of sensorimotor gating that is reduced in schizophrenia patients and in dopamine (DA)-activated rats. We previously found that PPI is disrupted by systemic administration of the D2 agonist quinpirole, but not by the D1 agonist SKF 38393. In this report we further characterize the D1 and D2 substrates and their potential interactions in the regulation of PPI in rats. PPI is reduced by concomitant administration of the D1 agonist SKF 38393 (5 mg/kg; relative affinity D1:D2 = 50:1) and by a subthreshold dose (0.1 mg/kg) of the D2 agonist quinpirole, but not by either drug given alone at these doses. Pretreatment with the D2 antagonist raclopride (0.05 mg/kg), but not the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (0.05 mg/kg), blocks the SKF 38393/quinpirole synergistic reduction of PPI. The relative D1 agonist SKF 82958 (5 mg/kg; relative affinity D1:D2 = 10:1) disrupts PPI, and this effect of SKF 82958 is reversed by the D2 antagonist raclopride but not by the D1 antagonist SCH 23390. Consistent with a recent report (Hoffman and Donovan 1994), the PPI-disruptive effects of the D1/D2 agonist apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg) could be blocked by pretreatment with the D1 antagonist SCH 23390. Surprisingly the PPI-disruptive effects of quinpirole are also opposed by pretreatment with SCH 23390. Our present findings confirm that D2 receptors are important for the regulation of PPI in rats, but they also suggest that there exists a synergistic interaction between D1 and D2 substrates in the regulation of PPI. D1 receptors might modulate PPI in a &quot;rate-dependent&quot; manner in which tonic D1 activity is essential for the full manifestation of the D2-mediated modulation of PPI. However, D1 receptors do not appear to participate in the modulatory mechanisms of sensorimotor gating as an independent substrate.
N-demethylation of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor sertraline to desmethylsertraline yields a compound with 10- to 20-fold less potency at blocking serotonin (5-HT) reuptake as measured in vitro. In the present study desmethylsertraline (DMS) was examined in two in vivo models of reuptake inhibition--elevation of extracellular 5-HT in the corpus striatum as measured by microdialysis and inhibition of firing of serotonin-containing dorsal raphe neurons. Whereas sertraline (1, 3.2, and 10 mg/kg s.c.) produced a dose-dependent increase in extracellular 5-HT and a decrease in 5-HIAA in rat striatum, desmethylsertraline was without effect on either parameter. In similar fashion, desmethylsertraline had no effect on dorsal raphe cell firing at a dose (1,000 micrograms/kg i.v.) nearly 20-fold the ED50 for sertraline (52 micrograms/kg). Taken together, these data suggest that DMS does not contribute to the blockade of central 5-HT reuptake produced by sertraline in vivo and therefore would be expected to play a negligible role in its clinical activity.


Secretoneurin, a novel neuropeptide, has recently been shown to attract monocytes. In our present study we have tested whether the local presence of secretoneurin within the CNS of the rat may influence the topographical distribution of inflammatory infiltrates in acute T-cell mediated encephalomyelitis. Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis was induced by passive transfer of myelin basic protein-reactive T-lymphocytes and the distribution of T-cells and macrophages was studied at day 3, 4 and 7 after transfer. In the same sections secretoneurin immunoreactivity was visualized by immunohistochemistry. A clustering of macrophages, but not of T-lymphocytes, was seen at sites of secretoneurin immunoreactivity in all stages of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Our data indicate for the first time that local neuropeptides may play a role in leucocyte recruitment into inflammatory lesions of the CNS.
Microfluorimetric techniques were used to measure changes in intracellular calcium in astrocytes cultured from the forebrain of the adult rat. Application of ATP consistently raised intracellular calcium. The response persisted in the absence of extracellular calcium, but then quickly declined upon repeated agonist application. Thapsigargin abolished responses to nucleotides following depletion of the endoplasmic reticular calcium stores. Calcium release was inhibited by caffeine, but was dramatically increased through inositol phosphate receptor sensitization by the sulphydryl reagent thimerosal. Responses to repeated nucleotide applications resulted in a gradual decline of peak calcium concentrations, suggesting a (post)receptor-mediated desensitization or gradual depletion of the internal calcium stores. Subsequent application of ionomycin suggested intracellular calcium depletion as the relevant mechanism. Depletion of the internal calcium stores with ATP, ionomycin or thapsigargin failed to reveal a calcium influx pathway. These results suggest that the capacitative mechanism of calcium entry does not operate in response to nucleotide receptor activation in these cells, and that the immediate refilling of the internal calcium stores is primarily determined by re-uptake of cytosolic calcium into the endoplasmic reticulum. A complete refilling of this calcium store by extracellular calcium may be a much slower process. Control of these signal transduction pathways is crucial to the maintenance of the calcium/energy homeostasis of the adult astrocyte in the central nervous system.
In this study we established cultures of astrocytes from the forebrain of the adult rat. The homeostatic regulatory mechanisms of the aerobic and anaerobic pathways of energy metabolism in these cells showed that adult astrocytes express many of the regulatory properties previously demonstrated in neonatal astrocytes. Changes in mitochondrial respiration and ATP production were readily evident upon incubation with the relevant substrates. Inhibition of mitochondrial respiration led to a compensatory increase in anaerobic glycolysis as evidenced by an increased release of lactate. We assessed the role of cytosolic calcium in the regulation of the mitochondrial energy metabolism. Increases in cytosolic calcium concentration in response to ATP or stimulation of mechanical receptors were followed by depolarizations of the mitochondrial membrane potential, whose magnitude reflected the amplitude of the cytosolic calcium response. The changes in mitochondrial membrane potential were largely dependent on the presence of external calcium. These results provide the first evidence of a signalling mechanism in astrocytes by which changes in cytosolic calcium mediate changes in respiration, possibly through mitochondrial calcium uptake and subsequent activation of several mitochondrial dehydrogenases. This signalling pathway would thus ensure that energy demands due to changes in cytosolic calcium concentrations are met by increases in energy production through increases in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation.
Retinoic acid treatment of P19 embryonal carcinoma cells induces their differentiation into cultures containing neurons and astrocytes. We present two lines of experimentation indicating that oligodendrocytes also develop from retinoic acid-treated P19 cells. We isolated an immortal cell line from retinoic acid-treated P19 cell cultures whose proliferation is dependent upon epidermal growth factor. Upon removal of the growth factor these cells differentiate into both astrocytes and oligodendrocytes as determined by immunostaining with antibodies to the astrocyte marker glial fibrillar acidic protein and the oligodendrocyte markers, myelin associated glycoprotein and 2', 3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase. This cell line appears to be a bi-potential glial precursor. We also found that oligodendrocytes developed directly from P19 cells when retinoic acid-treated cells were transplanted into the brains of neonatal rat pups. Cells that developed into oligodendrocytes migrated into fiber bundles up to several millimeters from the site of the graft. These P19-derived oligodendrocytes appeared to myelinate axons from host neurons. Thus, retinoic acid-treated P19 cells differentiate into neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, the three cell types that normally develop from embryonic neuroectoderm, indicating that these cell cultures differentiate in a fashion closely resembling that of embryonic neuroectoderm.
The relationship between cytosolic Ca2+ and catecholamine secretion during stimulus-secretion coupling has been examined at individual chromaffin cells isolated from the cow and rat. Vesicular catecholamine exocytosis was determined via amperometric measurements with carbon fibre microelectrodes and fura-2 was used for simultaneous fluorescent monitoring of cytosolic Ca2+ at the same cell. Individual secretory vesicles in cells from the two species were found to release similar amounts of catecholamine. In addition, the time courses for secretion from individual vesicles was similar with rat and bovine chromaffin cells. The total quantity of catecholamine released and the change in cytosolic Ca2+ were also similar in response to exposure to K+ (60 mM), 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium (50 microM), and histamine (50 microM), although both responses were more prolonged following 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium and histamine at bovine cells. Agents that mobilize intracellular Ca(2+)-stores such as methacholine, caffeine and bradykinin resulted in different cytosolic Ca2+ and exocytosis responses at the rat and bovine chromaffin cells. Results indicate a heightened Ca(2+)-store activity or a more filled state in chromaffin cells from the rat. The results of this study clearly show that single-cell techniques can be used to characterize stimulus-secretion coupling. The requirement for lower numbers of cells with these techniques means that chromaffin cells from rodents can be routinely employed. This can be advantageous to minimize biological variability which occurs with organs obtained from slaughter houses and enables the investigation of genetically-altered animals.
Fast synaptic transmission in sympathetic ganglia is mediated by acetylcholine, acting on nicotinic receptors, yet muscarinic receptors are also present and are involved in the production of slow postsynaptic potentials. In order further to elucidate the role of muscarinic receptors in ganglionic transmission their distribution in the rat superior cervical sympathetic ganglion was investigated autoradiographically by use of the tritiated irreversible muscarinic ligand propylbenzilylcholine mustard. It was observed that this agent blocked the carbachol-evoked hydrolysis of inositol phospholipids in the ganglion and that this response to carbachol is itself inhibitable by selective muscarinic antagonists with a potency sequence which indicates involvement primarily of M1 receptors. Light microscope autoradiography showed that labelling inhibitable by atropine and by the M1-selective muscarinic antagonist pirenzepine was essentially confined to the margins of neuronal somata and regions of dendritic arborization, which include synaptic contacts. Quantitative electron microscope autoradiography showed that binding of the radioligand, of which approximately 70% was inhibitable by atropine and 68% by pirenzepine, was associated predominantly with surface membranes of neuronal somata, dendrites, other neurites (including axons and uncharacterized dendrites) and nerve terminal profiles, in the approximate ratios 95:85:52:45. Of the inhibitable binding over neuronal membranes in the ganglion little more than 3% was found to be synaptically located, and this involved para- or peri-synaptic regions of nerve terminal contacts rather than the specialized synaptic zone. About 5% of the inhibitable binding over neuronal membranes involved non-synaptic surfaces of nerve terminals and preterminal axon segments; almost 70% was distributed over non-synaptic surfaces of neuronal somata and dendrites, and about 21% upon other neurites. Binding sites were found not to be more highly concentrated at or adjacent to synapses than over other regions of neuronal surface membranes. About 50%, possibly more, of the binding on non-synaptic surfaces of nerve endings, and about 7% of binding upon dendritic membranes, was of non-M1, possibly M2 type, inhibitable by atropine but not by pirenzepine. Non-synaptic neuro-neuronal appositions, which involve dendrites and somata and often lie adjacent to synapses, showed rather more than twice the binding expected for each membrane individually; and neuronal membrane exposed to basal lamina lining ganglionic tissue spaces showed high levels of binding. Little inhibitable binding was seen over membranes of satellite and Schwann cells, or over cytoplasmic territories or ganglionic interstitial tissue. A model was constructed of the distribution of label, which showed that the observed results for total binding could be approximately matched by assuming the following relative densities of ligand binding sites: interstitial tissue space and supporting cells 1, soma cytoplasm 3, cytoplasm of dendrites, neurites and nerve terminals 4.5, surfaces of mesodermal elements 15, surfaces of neurites and nerve endings including sites of synapse 45, surfaces of dendrites 90, surfaces of neuronal somata 120, non-synaptic neuro-neuronal appositions 180. It is concluded that functional muscarinic receptors in this sympathetic ganglion, predominantly of the M1 type linked with slow depolarizations, but including some non-M1 receptors, are widely distributed over non-synaptic surfaces of the neuronal somata and dendrites and are not concentrated at synapses. Presynaptic autoreceptors are also present, of which half or more are of non-M1, possibly M2, type which might be inhibitory. The presence of M4 receptors is not excluded...
Carbonic anhydrase activity, a marker of mouse proprioceptive neurons in adult dorsal root ganglia, is first detectable in the perinatal period, increases until postnatal day 60 and remains stable in adulthood. The onset of carbonic anhydrase staining begins after the neurons have made connections with their targets suggesting that neuron-target interactions regulate carbonic anhydrase phenotype development. To examine this possibility, we first analysed carbonic anhydrase expression in mdx mice which are characterized by a massive but reversible degeneration of skeletal muscle concomitant with the carbonic anhydrase ontogenesis. Neuronal carbonic anhydrase expression in mdx mice stopped developing when the period of muscular degeneration-regeneration began. Furthermore this alteration persisted during adulthood. We then analysed carbonic anhydrase expression in fifth lumbar dorsal root ganglion of developing control mice before and after surgical procedures that might interfere with central and peripheral target influences on dorsal root ganglion neurons. Central disconnection (dorsal rhizotomy) did not affect the development of carbonic anhydrase activity. Disrupting neuron-peripheral target interactions by sciatic nerve transection or blocking muscle contraction by tenotomy stopped the development of neuronal carbonic anhydrase content. Finally, recovery was monitored following sciatic nerve crush. In adults, recovery of carbonic anhydrase activity was obtained after functional recuperation; similar manipulations during the first month of life induced irreversible alteration of the carbonic anhydrase phenotype. These results show that the development of carbonic anhydrase activity in proprioceptive neurons is regulated by neuron-muscle interactions (i.e. muscle contraction). They also provide evidence for a critical period in the development of the carbonic anhydrase phenotype. We suggest that these two mechanisms are responsible for the altered carbonic anhydrase phenotype of the dorsal root ganglion neurons in mdx mice, a model of human muscular dystrophy.
Neuron-substratum interactions regulating axon growth in the developing central nervous system of the rat have been studied by means of an in vitro bioassay: the tissue section culture. We have previously shown that purified chicken sensory or sympathetic neurons grown on natural substrata consisting of cryostat sections of neonatal rat spinal cord elaborate numerous long neurites [Sagot et al. (1991) Brain Res. 543, 25-35]. Perturbation experiments, in which neuron-substratum interactions are modified by antibodies and peptides, have allowed us to analyse some of the molecular determinants which control neurite outgrowth in this system. Antibodies directed against the beta 1-integrin subunit, one of the neuronal receptors for extracellular matrix molecules, reduced the percentage of growing neurons by about 30% and the length of neurites by about 50%. In contrast, antibodies directed against laminin-1 or fibronectin, two extracellular matrix proteins transiently expressed in various areas of the developing central nervous system, were unable to block neurite outgrowth. Paradoxically, a peptide containing the IKVAV sequence, which mimics an active sequence of the laminin alpha 1 chain responsible for neurite extension, also blocked neurite outgrowth on neonatal spinal cord substrata. These results indicate that integrin receptors containing the beta 1 subunit may play a role in regulating axon growth in the developing nervous system. Among the putative extracellular matrix ligands for these receptors, laminin and fibronectin do not appear as prominent candidates in the neonatal spinal cord. However, our data also suggest that the developing central nervous system may contain neurite outgrowth-promoting proteins carrying the IKVAV sequence, different from laminin-1.
Neurotrophic factors are molecules that prevent neuronal degeneration and regulate neuronal phenotype during either development or adulthood. Relatively little is known about the comparative responsiveness of injured adult central nervous system motor neurons to various neurotrophic factors. In the present study we examined the effects of four members of the neurotrophin family on injured adult motor neurons. Nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 or neurotrophin-4/5 were infused intracerebroventricularly into adult rats following transection of the motor hypoglossal nerve. Two weeks after axotomy, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-4/5 completely prevented the loss of the cholinergic phenotype in hypoglossal motor neurons (97 +/- 11% and 99 +/- 5%, respectively) as assessed by choline acetyltransferase immunolabeling. In contrast, nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3 exerted no protective effect. The low-affinity p75 neurotrophin receptor, capable of binding all four neurotrophins, was re-expressed in injured hypoglossal neurons; the majority of injured hypoglossal neurons also express trkB receptors but not trkA or trkC receptors. Thus, injury-induced responses to neurotrophins in adult motor neurons are mediated by trk receptors and their agonists, but may or may not also require low-affinity p75 neurotrophin receptors. Intracerebroventricular infusions of trkB agonists may be a useful means of targeting multiple and distantly separated populations of motor neurons for neurotrophic factor therapy.
Interferon-alpha and transforming growth factor-beta 1 have been detected in the brain, suggesting their possible regulatory functions. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of these cytokines on the in vitro release of arginine vasopressin, previously reported to be sensitive to neurotransmitters such as acetylcholine, norepinephrine, and corticotropin releasing hormone as well as to cytokines interleukin-1 and interleukin-2. Interferon-alpha was found to enhance arginine vasopressin release from both hypothalamus and amygdala, as was dibutyryl cyclic GMP. Blockade of nitric oxide synthase antagonized the interferon-alpha induced arginine vasopressin release from the amygdala but not from the hypothalamus. Transforming growth factor-beta 1 had no effect on basal release of arginine vasopressin, nor on the arginine vasopressin-release induced by interferon-alpha, interleukin-2 or norepinephrine, but selectively blocked the acetylcholine-induced release in both hypothalamus and amygdala. When the release of arginine vasopressin induced by interferon-alpha, interleukin-2, acetylcholine and norepinephrine was probed with inhibitors of guanylate cyclase, the interactions exhibited regional selectivity: neither the interleukin-2-induced arginine vasopressin release from hypothalamus, nor the norepinephrine-induced release of arginine vasopressin from either amygdala or hypothalamus was affected by guanylate cyclase inhibitors, but all other arginine vasopressin releasers were blocked. Taken with previous reports that interferon-alpha will enhance hypothalamic corticotropin releasing hormone release, our results suggest that arginine vasopressin release enhanced by interferon-alpha may also contribute to the activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis, while the ability of transforming growth factor-beta 1 to diminish the arginine vasopressin released by acetylcholine could mediate some of this cytokine's central effects. The extension of these neurotransmitter-cytokine interactions to the amygdala may provide an additional basis for interactions between neuronal and immune systems.
Melanin-concentrating hormone is a cyclic nonadecapeptide that is produced almost exclusively in neurons of the lateral hypothalamus and sub zona incerta areas while fibers are widespread in the rat brain. Such a localization strongly suggests that this peptide might participate as neurotransmitter/neuromodulator in the control of feeding behavior. In this study we examined first the influence of rat melanin-concentrating hormone on feeding behavior at different times either in the light or in the dark period (light off at 18.00 h) of the day in fed Wistar rats. Intracerebroventricular injection of rat melanin-concentrating hormone (1-100 ng per rat) at 18.00 h reduced food consumption as early as 2 h after injection and for the next 24 h. In addition, similar anorectic effect was noted after bilateral administration of 1 ng melanin-concentrating hormone into the lateral hypothalamic area at 11.30 h but not at 16.30 h. These findings strongly suggest that rat melanin-concentrating hormone may exert inhibitory control over food intake behavior depending on the circadian rhythm. Second, we investigated the modifications induced by food deprivation/refeeding on melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA levels in Wistar rats. Total RNA was isolated from whole hypothalamic dissections and the contents of melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA, beta-actin messenger RNA (taken as sample control) and neuropeptide Y messenger RNA (taken as control of food-deprivation paradigms) were assessed by using northern blotting. The time-course of messenger RNA expression was determined in groups of rats deprived for 24, 48 and 72 h and revealed a three-fold induction of melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA by 24 and 48 h, with reduced increase at 72 h. As expected, the same treatment led to a three-fold increase in neuropeptide Y messenger RNA content by 48 and 72 h. Refeeding groups of animals for up to 72 h after 24 h of food deprivation resulted in full restoration of melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA levels by 24 h. Strikingly, a large range of variations in melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA content between individuals was observed in food-deprived versus controls or refed rats suggesting that genetic or environmental factors may alter response in melanin-concentrating hormone gene activity after food deprivation. Finally, we investigated the effects of short-term glucoprivation induced by intraperitoneal administration of either 2-deoxy-D-glucose or insulin on melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA expression. A transitory increase in melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA content was noted 1 h after 2-deoxy-D-glucose injection while melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA levels rose two-fold only 5 h after insulin treatment. These results indicate that 2-deoxy-D-glucose and insulin activate melanin-concentrating hormone gene expression through likely distinct regulatory pathways.
The influence of cholinergic transmission within the substantia nigra pars compacta on circling behavior was assessed in male rats. Microinjection of physostigmine (6-37 nmol) into the caudal part of the substantia nigra pars compacta elicited a dose-dependent contralateral circling. The circling was inhibited 93 +/- 3% by the dopamine antagonist haloperidol (53 nmol) injected into the neostriatum 90 min before the injection of physostigmine (37 nmol) into the ipsilateral substantia nigra pars compacta. The effect of haloperidol was reversible, since the circling behavior was fully restored when physostigmine was applied to the same animals 24 h later. The circling was completely blocked when physostigmine (37 nmol) was applied simultaneously with the muscarinic M1 antagonist pirenzepine (2 nmol). The M2 antagonist AF-DX 116 (2 nmol) only partially blocked the circling induced by a lower dose of physostigmine (12 nmol). The nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine (5 nmol) also inhibited the circling, but only during the 5 min following co-injection of the drugs. These results indicate that endogenous acetylcholine stimulates muscarinic and nicotinic receptors of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons which, in turn, increase their firing rate and cause the circling behavior. We conclude that the pedunculopontine cholinergic neurons, which innervate the substantia nigra pars compacta, modulate the motor behavior by increasing the activity of dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway.
The reticular part of the substantia nigra is known to be a critical site in the control of epileptic seizures. Potentiation of the direct striatonigral GABAergic projection has been shown to suppress seizures in different animal models of epilepsy. Besides this GABAergic input, the substantia nigra receives glutamatergic inputs, especially from the indirect striatonigral pathway, via the subthalamic nucleus. To investigate the involvement of the nigral excitatory amino acid transmission in the remote control of non-convulsive generalized seizures, several drugs interacting with glutamatergic receptors were first injected into the substantia nigra pars reticulata in rats with spontaneous absence seizures. Blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors suppressed spontaneous generalized non-convulsive seizures in the rat, whereas blockade of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors was without effect. Second, inhibition of the subthalamic projection by bilateral injections of a GABAergic agonist in this structure similarly suppressed absence seizures. These results suggest that excitatory amino acid inputs are critical in the triggering of the nigral control of generalized epilepsies. Furthermore, they support the hypothesis of a possible involvement of the subthalamonigral pathway in the control of generalized non-convulsive seizures.
In Parkinson's disease, there is evidence of impaired mitochondrial function which reduces the capacity to synthesize ATP in dopamine neurons. This would be expected to reduce the activity of the sodium pump (Na+/K+ ATPase), causing increased intracellular levels of Na+. Patch pipettes were used to introduce Na+ (40 mM in pipette solutions) into dopamine neurons in the rat midbrain slice in order to study the electrophysiological effects of increased intracellular Na+. We found that intracellular Na+ loading evoked 100-300 pA of outward current (at -60 mV) and increased whole-cell conductance; these effects developed gradually during the first 10 min after rupture of the membrane patch. Extracellular Ba2+ reduced most of the outward current evoked by Na+ loading; this Ba(2+)-sensitive current reversed direction at the expected reversal potential for K+ (EK), and was also blocked by extracellular tetraethylammonium (30 mM) and intracellular Cs+ (which replaced K+ in pipette solutions). The sulfonylurea drugs glipizide (IC50 = 4.9 nM), tolbutamide (IC50 = 23 microM) and glibenclamide (1 microM) were as effective as 300 microM Ba2+ in reducing the K+ current evoked by Na+ loading. When recording with &quot;control&quot; pipettes containing 15 mM Na+, diazoxide (300 microM) increased chord conductance and evoked outward current at -60 mV, which also reversed direction near EK. Effects of diazoxide were blocked by glibenclamide (1 microM) or glipizide (300 nM). Diazoxide (300 microM) and baclofen (3 microM), which also evoked K(+)-mediated outward currents recorded with control pipettes, caused little additional increases in outward currents during Na+ loading. Raising ATP concentrations to 10 mM in pipette solutions failed to significantly reduce currents evoked by diazoxide or Na+ loading, suggesting that these currents may not be mediated by ATP-sensitive K+ channels. Finally, Na+ loading using pipettes containing Cs+ in place of K+ evoked a relatively small outward current (50-150 pA at -60 mV), which developed gradually over the first 10 min after rupturing the membrane patch. This current was reduced by dihydro-ouabain (3 microM) and a low extracellular concentration of K+ (0.5 mM instead of 2.5 mM), but was not affected by Ba2+. We conclude that intracellular Na+ loading evokes a current generated by Na+/K+ ATPase in addition to sulfonylurea-sensitive K+ current. This Na(+)-dependent K+ current is unusual in its sensitivity to sulfonylureas, and could protect dopamine neurons against toxic effects of intracellular Na+ accumulation.
The present experiment examined the role of the ventral striatum in the rewarding effect of morphine and amphetamine by testing whether lesions of cell bodies within this region disrupt the development of a conditioned place preference to either drug. Bilateral, N-methyl-D-aspartate- or kainic acid-induced lesions of the ventral striatum block a conditioned place preference to amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg x 3 pairings) but not to morphine (2 mg/kg x 3 pairings). Because both lesions spared anterior portions of the ventral striatum, we examined the effect of larger or more selective ventral striatal lesions on a conditioned place preference induced by morphine. Destruction of the entire ventral striatum reduced, but did not eliminate, a conditioned place preference to morphine, whereas selective lesions of the anterior ventral striatum were ineffective. These results indicate that the ventral striatum is not critically involved in morphine's rewarding effect and support the suggestion that the rewarding effects of opiates and stimulants do not involve identical neural substrates.
Using the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine model of Parkinson's disease, we investigated the long-term effects of dopaminergic denervation on synaptic transmission in an in vitro slice preparation of the mouse neostriatum. In control mice, electrical stimulation elicited an antidromic potential (N1) followed by a synaptically mediated field potential (N2). In many slices, a third component (N3) was observed. Determination of the maximum stimulus intensities unveiled that in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3, 6-tetrahydropyridine-pretreated animals, the stimulus strength necessary to evoke a maximum N2 response was significantly higher compared to control mice. Furthermore, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3, 6-tetrahydropyridine-pretreatment led to a less frequent appearance and/or to a reduction in the amplitude of the N3 component. Application of glutamate receptor agonists and antagonists revealed two additional differences between normal and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-pretreated mice. (1) Comparison of the efficacy of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione demonstrated an increase in the inhibitory effect of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-pretreated mice. (2) In normal mice, removal of magnesium ions from the bathing solution invariably led to the appearance of late N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent synaptic components. There components were only slightly expressed or virtually absent in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-pretreated mice. The described differences between the electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of evoked field potentials in slices from normal and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3, 6-tetrahydropyridine-pretreated mice disappeared following blockade of GABAA receptor-dependent inhibition by bicuculline. In normal and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-pretreated mice, bicuculline did not influence the amplitude of the N2 component, but invariably unmasked late synaptic components mediated by glutamate receptors. However, the potentiating effect of bicuculline was significantly stronger in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-pretreated mice compared to the controls. In the presence of bicuculline, the frequency of occurrence of the N3 component was identical in both groups. Furthermore, the apparent efficiency of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione was no longer different. Application of bicuculline in the absence of magnesium ions resulted in a similar disinhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent late components as observed in the controls in the absence of bicuculline. The data demonstrate that chronic dopaminergic denervation reduces glutamate receptor-dependent synaptic excitation in the mouse neostriatum. Since differences between normal and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-pretreated mice disappear in the presence of bicuculline, we conclude that this reduction in excitability is due to a potentiation of GABAA receptor-dependent inhibition.
Several lines of evidence have demonstrated the presence of three opioid receptor types in the CNS and periphery. These receptors are referred to as mu, delta and kappa, and have been implicated in a wide variety of functions. The present study examines the localization of the kappa 1 receptor, a region of the receptor that has little homology with mu and delta receptors. Immunohistochemical studies in Zamboni-fixed rat tissue demonstrate immunoreactive perikarya and/or fibers in such regions as the deep layers of the parietal, temporal and occipital cortex, parasubiculum, central and medial amygdala, bed nucleus stria terminalis, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle, endopiriform nucleus, claustrum, hypothalamic nuclei, median eminence, midline thalamic nuclei, zona incerta, central gray, caudal linear and dorsal raphe, substantia nigra, pars reticulata, ventral tegmental area, parabrachial nucleus, spinal trigeminal nucleus, nucleus of the solitary tract, spinal cord and the dorsal root ganglia. Specific kappa 1 receptor-like immunohistochemical staining is also observed in the pituitary, where immunoreactive perikarya and fibers are localized in the neural and intermediate lobes. Transfection and preabsorption controls suggest that the antibody is selective for the cloned kappa 1 receptor, and does not recognize mu or delta. This immunohistochemical localization corresponds well to previously described kappa 1 receptor mRNA and binding distributions and provides new insights into the cellular localization and pre- and postsynaptic organization of the kappa 1 receptor-like proteins in the rat brain and pituitary. The functional implications of these results are discussed in light of the kappa 1 receptors play in hormonal regulation, antinociception and reward.
This study has examined whether changes in endogenous GABA concentrations influence GABAA receptor subunit mRNA expression in vivo. Increased GABA concentrations were achieved by treating female rats with gamma-vinyl-GABA (15 mg/100 g), an irreversible inhibitor of the GABA transaminase, daily for three days. High performance liquid chromatography analysis of brain punches from specific brain regions showed that gamma-vinyl-GABA treatment resulted in approximately two-fold increases in brain GABA content. Using in situ hybridization techniques with specific 35S-labelled oligonucleotides, the mRNA expression of the alpha 1, alpha 2, beta 2, beta 3, gamma 1 and/or gamma 2 subunits of the GABAA receptor was quantified in various brain regions including the medial preoptic nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, bed nucleus of the anterior commissure, supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus, globus pallidus and cingulate cortex. Silver grain density analysis showed that gamma-vinyl-GABA treatment induced a significant 35 and 49% decrease in gamma 1 mRNA expression in the medial preoptic nucleus and the principle encapsulated nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis respectively, and a significant 20% decrease in alpha 2 mRNA expression in the cingulate cortex. Expression of alpha 2 and beta 3 in the former areas was unchanged as was alpha 1, beta 2, beta 3 and gamma 2 subunit expression in the cingulate cortex. Elevation of brain GABA levels also resulted in a specific and significant 17% increase in gamma 2 mRNA expression in the supraoptic nucleus. In the globus pallidus, gamma-vinyl-GABA treatment induced a significant 29% increase in alpha 1 mRNA expression combined with 19 and 30% decreases in beta 2 and gamma 2 mRNA expression, respectively. Levels of GABAA receptor subunits expressed in the bed nucleus of the anterior commissure (alpha 2, beta 3, gamma 1) and paraventricular nucleus (alpha 1, alpha 2, beta 2, gamma 2) were not changed by gamma-vinyl-GABA treatment. These results provide in vivo evidence for a region- and subunit-specific regulation of GABAA receptor subunit mRNA levels following the elevation of brain GABA concentrations and suggest that endogenous GABA levels influence GABAA receptor subunit mRNA expression.
After unilateral entorhinal cortex lesion commissural fibres to the inner molecular layer of the rat fascia dentata are said to sprout into the former termination zone of entorhinal afferents. This sprouting process has not yet been demonstrated at the level of individual fibres. In the present study, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin tracing was used to analyse the commissural projection to the inner molecular layer in rats with longstanding entorhinal cortex lesions. In comparison with controls, the commissural fibre plexus in the inner molecular layer had expanded by 20-45 microns outwards on the side of the entorhinal lesion. Unexpectedly, only a small number of axons arising from the bulk of commissural fibres in the inner molecular layer left the main fibre plexus and entered the outer molecular layer. Thus, there was still a clearly recognizable border between the Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin-labelled commissural fibre plexus in the inner molecular layer and the unstained outer molecular layer. The few commissural axons invading the outer molecular layer rarely branched but formed multiple en passant boutons, and occasionally exhibited growth cones. The data indicate that only few commissural fibres appear to be able to sprout beyond the border of their appropriate layer suggesting that the characteristic laminar specificity of hippocampal afferents is largely retained following deafferentation.
Substance P containing neurons was visualized by immunocytochemistry in the monkey hippocampus, subicular complex, and entorhinal cortex. Immunoreactive neurons were found solely in the hilar region of the dentate gyrus, and in strata oriens and pyramidale of Ammon's horn. In the subicular complex, immunoreactive neurons were located in those layers which were close to the alveus, whereas in the entorhinal cortex most of the substance P-positive neurons appeared in the second and third layers above the lamina dissecans. The majority of substance P-containing neurons were large multipolar cells, but small bipolar and multipolar cells also occurred in Ammon's horn, subiculum and entorhinal cortex. Dendrites of immunoreactive cells were smooth and displayed a few small, faintly stained spines which were hard to identify in the light microscopic preparations, but were visible with electron microscopy. Substance P-positive dendrites were exclusively found in the hilar region and never observed in the upper two-thirds of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Moreover, immunoreactive dendrites rarely penetrated the stratum lacunosum-moleculare of Ammon's horn. In the electron microscopic preparations, somal and dendritic features of substance P-positive neurons were similar to those observed for GABAergic local circuit neurons. Axons of the substance P-immunoreactive local circuit neurons were thin and richly arborized in the upper two-thirds of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare of Ammon's horn as well as in the subpial layers of the subicular complex and entorhinal cortex. Their terminals formed exclusively symmetric synapses with dendrites and spines. However, substance P-immunoreactive boutons were not found to make symmetric, axosomatic synapses on the granule cells of the dentate gyrus and very few were present on the pyramidal neurons of Ammon's horn, subicular complex, and entorhinal cortex. Hippocampal neurons, which were immunoreactive for substance P, also contained the neuropeptide somatostatin. However, not all of the somatostatin-containing neurons were substance P-immunoreactive. Thus, substance P-positive neurons are a subpopulation of somatostatin immunoreactive, GABAergic neurons. In conclusion, substance P-immunoreactive neurons are ideally suited for feed-back dendritic inhibition which may control the effectiveness of the main excitatory cortical input to the granule cells of the dentate gyrus and pyramidal neurons of the Ammon's horn.
The mechanism of veratridine-induced bursting activity was studied in rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. Veratridine (0.1-0.3 microM) induces bursting in previously normal pyramidal neurons. The current-voltage curves of untreated neurons show a slight deviation from the linear Ohmic relation; this deviation is known as the &quot;depolarizing rectification&quot;. Veratridine markedly accentuates the depolarizing rectification so that a zero slope or negative slope appears in the current-voltage curve of these neurons. Both the veratridine-induced bursting activity and negative slope resistance are blocked by small concentrations of tetrodotoxin or by raising the calcium concentration of the superfusion medium. Under single-electrode voltage clamping, a subthreshold persistent (slowly inactivating) sodium current, which can be recorded in untreated neurons, is found to be enhanced in the veratridine-treated neurons. This current is thought to be responsible for the slow depolarizing phase of bursting activity and the development of negative slope resistance in the current-voltage relationship. The present results demonstrate that veratridine enhances the slowly inactivating sodium current, leading to the development of negative slope resistance and induction of bursting in rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons.
The epileptogenic and neurodegenerative effects of dendrotoxin K, from Dendroaspis polylepis, a specific blocker of a non-inactivating, voltage-sensitive K+ channel, were studied after focal injection into one dorsal hippocampus in rats. Administration of 35 pmol dendrotoxin K elicited motor seizures and bilateral electrocortical discharges after a latent period (5.3 +/- 2.1 min), in all of the treated animals (n = 6). At 24 h, histological examination of brain (n = 5) coronal sections (10 microns; n = 6 per brain) detected bilateral damage to the hippocampal formation which extended 300 microns rostral and caudal to the injection tract. Quantitation of the damage revealed significant bilateral neuronal cell loss in the CA1 and CA4 pyramidal cell layer relative to the corresponding brain regions of rats (n = 3) injected with bovine serum albumin (105 pmol), which per se was ineffective in all respects. Dendrotoxin K (35 pmol) also caused a significant loss of CA3 pyramidal neurons and dentate gyrus granule cells ipsilateral to the site of toxin injection. In one out of six rats, a lower dose (3.5 pmol) of dendrotoxin K produced convulsive behaviour and electrocortical seizures but after a longer latency and these were accompanied by significant neuronal loss in the CA1, CA3 and CA4 pyramidal cell layer ipsilateral to the injected side. The lowest dose (0.35 pmol; n = 6 rats) of dendrotoxin K used failed to induce seizures and did not cause hippocampal damage (n = 6 rats). Systemic (i.p.) treatment with dizocilpine maleate (3 mg/kg) or LY 274614 (5 mg/kg i.p.), two N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists (given 15 min beforehand), prevented dendrotoxin K (35 pmol)-induced motor seizures and electrocortical epileptogenic discharges in 100% of the animals (n = 6 per group) treated. Similarly, these antagonists minimized the damage typically produced in the rat hippocampus, with no significant neuronal loss being observed. By contrast, NBQX (30 mg/kg, i.p. given 15 min previously), a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, failed to prevent seizures normally evoked by dendrotoxin K (35 pmol; n = 6 rats); also, this treatment was unable to abolish CA1 pyramidal cell loss but minimized the loss in hippocampal sectors distant to the site of dendrotoxin K injection. However, complete protection against motor and electrocortical seizures and hippocampal damage was afforded by GYKI 52466 (10 mg/kg i.p.; n = 6 rats), a more effective non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. These findings differ from the reported lack of protection by N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists to rats receiving intra-hippocampal injection of alpha-dendrotoxin; this difference may stem from the ability of alpha-dendrotoxin to block predominantly a slowly inactivating K+ current whereas dendrotoxin K inhibits a non inactivating variant. In conclusion, the present data on dendrotoxin K, together with the previously described pattern of neurotoxicity for alpha-dendrotoxin, show that these homologues act via different mechanisms and, thus, can be used effectively as complementary tools to study seizures and neuronal cell death.
Non-radioactive in situ hybridization using complementary RNA and oligonucleotide probes was applied in order to clearly identify the cell types expressing GLT1 and to show their regional distribution in the central nervous system of the rat. The results were compared with immunocytochemical data achieved using an antibody against a synthetic GLT1 peptide. The study showed that GLT1 was expressed in astrocytes and Bergmann glia which were identified by the detection of an astrocytic marker protein. Additionally, subsets of neurons in different brain regions (e.g., CA3/4 pyramidal cells of the hippocampus, endopiriform nucleus) were labelled by in situ hybridization. In other cell types of the central nervous system (oligodendrocytes, ependymal cells, epithelal cells of the choroid plexus, tanycytes), GLT1 expression was not detectable. The generally dense astrocytic immunolabelling of the gray matter of the brain showed an even higher intensity in regions reported to show high glutamatergic activity and astrocytic glutamate metabolism (e.g., the termination field of the glutamatergic perforant path in the hippocampus). On the basis of the cellular regional distribution of the GLT1 messenger RNA and protein demonstrated in the present study, it is reasonable to assume that this high affinity transporter is of importance for the maintenance of adequate extraneuronal glutamate levels.
In the CA3 region of rat dorsal hippocampus, several sigma ligands, such as 1,3-di(2-tolyl)guanidine (DTG), (+)-pentazocine and (+)-N-cyclopropylmethyl-N-methyl-1, 4-diphenyl-1-ethyl-but-3-en-1-ylamine hydrochloride (JO-1784), administered intravenously at low doses, potentiate selectively the pyramidal neuron firing activity induced by microiontophoretic applications of N-methyl-D-aspartate, without affecting those induced by quisqualate, kainate or acetylcholine. A similar potentiation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate response has also been found with microiontophoretic applications of neuropeptide Y, an effect exerted via delta receptors. The present experiments were carried out to determine the effects of these sigma ligands and of neuropeptide Y; in the CA1 and CA3 regions following unilateral destruction by a local injection of colchicine of the mossy fiber system, which is a major afference to CA3 pyramidal neurons. In the CA1 region, DTG, JO-1784 and neuropeptide Y did not potentiate the activation induced by microiontophoretic applications of N-methyl-D-aspartate. However, (+)-pentazocine potentiated the N-methyl-D-aspartate response, similarly to its effect in the CA3 region on the intact side. In the CA3 region, on the intact side, (+)-pentazocine, DTG, JO-1784 and neuropeptide Y induced a selective potentiation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced activation, in keeping with previous reports. On the lesioned side, the effect of (+)-pentazocine on the N-methyl-D-aspartate response was still present, but those of DTG, JO-1784 and neuropeptide Y were abolished. These results suggest that (+)-pentazocine, on the one hand, and DTG, JO-1784 and neuropeptide Y, on the other, are not acting on the same subtype of sigma receptors. Since (+)-pentazocine, JO-1784 and neuropeptide Y have been suggested to act on the sigma 1 subtype of receptors, these data suggest the existence of two subtypes of sigma 1 receptors. They also suggest that the receptors on which DTG, JO-1784 and neuropeptide Y are acting are located on the mossy fiber terminals in the CA3 region and are absent in the CA1 region.
Glutamate neurotransmission involves numerous ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptor types in postsynaptic, presynaptic and glial locations. Distribution of the metabotropic glutamate receptors mGluR2 and mGluR3 was studied with an affinity-purified, characterized polyclonal antibody made from a C-terminus peptide. This antibody, mGluR2/3, recognized both mGluR2 and mGluR3, but did not cross-react with any other type of metabotropic glutamate receptor except for a very slight recognition of mGluR5. Light microscope distribution of the antibody binding sites in the nervous system matched the combined distributions of messenger RNA for mGluR2 and mGluR3. For example, dense staining seen in the accessory olfactory bulb and cerebellar Golgi cells matched high levels of mGluR2 messenger RNA in these structures, while moderately dense staining in the reticular nucleus of the thalamus and light to moderate staining in glia throughout the brain matched significant levels of mGluR3 messenger RNA in these structures. In the rostral olfactory structures, the densest stained neurons belonged to presumptive &quot;necklace olfactory glomeruli.&quot; In the hippocampus, staining was densest in the neuropil of the stratum lucidum/pyramidale, stratum lacunosum/moleculare, hilus and middle third of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Ultrastructural studies of the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and caudate-putamen revealed significant staining in postsynaptic and presynaptic structures and glial wrappings of presumptive excitatory synapses; frequently, this staining was concentrated in discrete patches at or near active zones. In the hippocampus, presynaptic staining appeared to be concentrated in terminals of two populations of presumptive glutamatergic axons: mossy fibers originating from granule cells and perforant path fibers originating from the entorhinal cortex. These data suggest that populations of mGluR2 and/or mGluR3 receptors are localized differentially in synapses, i.e. those in and near the postsynaptic and presynaptic membranes and in glial wrappings of synapses, in several regions of the brain. In addition, we provide immunocytochemical evidence of mGluR2 or mGluR3 receptors in presynaptic terminals of glutamatergic synapses. Thus, mGluR2 and mGluR3 are found in various combinations of presynaptic, postsynaptic and glial localizations that may reflect differential modulation of excitatory amino acid transmission.
The ultrastructural features of acetylcholine axon terminals (varicosities) in adult rat neostriatum were characterized by electron microscopy after immunostaining with a sensitive monoclonal antibody against rat choline acetyltransferase. Several hundred single sections from these varicosities were analysed for shape, size and content, presence of a synaptic membrane specialization, and composition of the microenvironment. An equivalent number of unlabeled varicosities selected at random from the same micrographs were similarly examined. The immunostained varicosity profiles were relatively small and seldom showed a junctional membrane specialization. Stereological extrapolation to the whole volume of these varicosities indicated that less than 10% were synaptic. Far fewer dendritic spines were juxtaposed to these predominantly asynaptic profiles than to their unlabeled counterparts. This difference seemed imputable to the low synaptic incidence of the acetylcholine varicosities and was consistent with the view that these are randomly distributed in relation to surrounding elements. The bulk of the data was suggestive of volume transmission. This raised the possibility that, in such a densely innervated area, a basal level of acetylcholine is permanently maintained around all cellular elements, contributing to the modulatory properties of this transmitter. This basal level of acetylcholine could also serve as a regulatory signal controlling the expression of different receptor subtypes in neurons, glia and blood vessels.
Dystonia has been proposed to be caused by abnormal input from thalamus to premotor cortex due to altered activity of the striatum projecting by way of the globus pallidus and substantia nigra pars reticulata to the thalamus. However, in the case of idiopathic dystonia, i.e. the most common form of dystonia in humans, there is only limited evidence to support such a neuroanatomic concept. In view of the problems of studying the pathophysiology of idiopathic dystonia in patients, genetically determined animal models of idiopathic dystonia may be used as a practical means of studying brain dysfunctions involved in this movement disorder. The genetically dystonic hamster is an animal model of idiopathic dystonia that displays sustained abnormal movements and postures either spontaneously or in response to mild environmental stimuli. Autoradiographic analysis of dopamine D1 receptor density, using the ligand [3H]SCH 23390, revealed significant decreases of D1 binding in several parts of the striatum and substantia nigra pars reticulata of dystonic hamsters. Binding of the D2 ligand [3H]YM-09151-2 was decreased in the dorsomedial caudate-putamen, but increased in nucleus accumbens. In most other sites studied, no significant changes were found in either [3H]SCH 23390 or [3H]YM-09151-2 binding. By studying groups of dystonic hamsters in the absence and presence of dystonic attacks, it was shown that most changes in D1 and D2 binding were not secondary to abnormal movement but rather due to the dystonic condition of the animals. The study provides evidence of altered dopamine receptor binding in dystonia and confirms the concept that basal ganglia dysfunction may be a primary component of dystonia.
In an attempt to reconstruct the 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned nigrostriatal system of the adult rat we have combined homotopic grafting of embryonic ventral mesencephalon suspensions with the implantation of long oblique &quot;bridge&quot; grafts of fibroblast growth factor-4-transfected RN-22 schwannoma cells stretching from the site of the neuronal grafts to the striatum. At seven weeks after receiving both grafts, animals were killed and processed for immunohistochemistry against tyrosine hydroxylase. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons were seen to extend from the nigral grafts, along the bridge graft to the striatum where terminal arborizations could be seen. The retrograde tracer Fluoro-gold was injected intrastriatally in some of the experimental animals and was taken up by grafted neurons confirming their projection to the striatum. In parallel to the anatomical reconstruction of the system, a decrease in amphetamine-induced rotation was demonstrated in those animals receiving both grafts which had received &gt; 98% complete lesions. This decrease was greatest in those animals with the most tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons in their bridge grafts. The presence of the bridge graft also led to an increase in neuronal graft survival with twice as many tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons being found in the grafts of those animals that had received both grafts compared to those that had received a neuronal graft but no bridge graft.
In order to examine the consequences of nigrostriatal denervation on metabolic and functional activity of the basal ganglia, we analysed the distribution of cytochrome oxidase, a metabolic marker for neuronal functional activity, throughout the different basal ganglia structures in parkinsonian syndromes. The study was performed using enzyme histochemistry and densitometric measurements in patients with Parkinson's disease and in monkeys rendered parkinsonian by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyrydine (MPTP) intoxication. In MPTP-intoxicated monkeys compared to control animals, enzyme activity was significantly increased in the subthalamic nucleus and in the output nuclei of the basal ganglia, e.g. the internal segment of the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra pars reticulata, but remained unchanged in the external segment of the globus pallidus and the striatum. L-DOPA treatment reversed the increased enzyme activity in all of the affected structures studied. In contrast, in parkinsonian patients, who had all been chronically treated with L-DOPA, no changes in enzyme activity were detected compared to control subjects. The results in MPTP-intoxicated monkeys are in agreement with the accepted model of basal ganglia organization, in which the output nuclei of the basal ganglia are considered to be overactive after nigrostriatal denervation, partly due to increased activity of excitatory afferents from the subthalamic nucleus. Since the increased enzyme activity in MPTP-intoxicated monkeys was reversed by L-DOPA therapy, the unchanged cytochrome oxidase activity observed in parkinsonian patients might result from L-DOPA treatment, combined with the chronicity of nigrostriatal denervation.
The influence of intra-arterial injections of 5-hydroxytryptamine, histamine and prostaglandin E2 on afferent impulse activity of mesenteric nerves of small intestine was studied. In anaesthetized cats 5-hydroxytryptamine (10(-5)-10(-4) M) and histamine (10(-5)-10(-3) M) were shown to increase the impulse activity in a dose-dependent manner. Metergolin, 5-hydroxytryptamine antagonist, suppressed the effect of 5-hydroxytryptamine. Clemastine and cimetidine, antagonists of H1 and H2 histamine receptors respectively, distinctly diminished excitatory histamine effects. Prostaglandin E2 (10-30 micrograms/kg) enhanced the afferent impulse activity. The results suggest that afferents of the small intestine may be involved in reception of inflammatory and immune responses.
In the present study we demonstrate low level expression of the laminin alpha 2 chain in brain and localize the alpha 2 protein to the capillary basement membrane. While in peripheral basement membranes the laminin alpha 1 and alpha 2 chains have an almost mutually exclusive distribution, the present results suggest both alpha 1 and alpha 2 in the cerebral capillary basement membrane. Towards elucidating the function of alpha 2 in brain, we have performed ultrastructural analysis of the capillary basement membrane in dystrophic dy mice, which show a 70-90% and &gt; 95% reduction of alpha 2 messenger RNA compared to heterozygous and wild-type mice, respectively, and show a nearly total absence of the alpha 2 protein by immunofluorescence. In contrast to the muscle and Schwann cell basement membrane, where alpha 2 deficiency causes structural basement membrane abnormalities, the present results show that the lack of the alpha 2 subunit in the cerebral capillary basement membrane is not detrimental to its structure. This observation might be explained by the fact that the cerebral capillary basement membrane expresses both alpha chains and therefore exhibits structural redundancy.
We have recently demonstrated that neurotrophins induce reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase activity in cultured spinal cord neurons. One prominent neuron population of the spinal cord expressing NADPH-diaphorase activity in vivo are preganglionic sympathetic neurons, including those innervating the adrenal medulla. These neurons receive trophic support from their target. We have shown previously that chromaffin cells contain as yet unidentified neurotrophic molecules, which may include releasable factors relevant for the survival and differentiation of developing preganglionic sympathetic neurons. We have studied the influence of proteins derived from bovine chromaffin cells and released by nicotine on NADPH-diaphorase expression in spinal cord cultures established from 16-day-old rat embryos. At this embryonic age, NADPH-diaphorase activity becomes apparent in the spinal cord and predominantly expressed in sympathetic nuclei. Similar to brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-4, a heat- and trypsin-sensitive component from chromaffin cells contained in granule preparations up-regulated the number of NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons in spinal cord cultures. Combined application of this activity and neurotrophin-4 resulted in an additive effect, indicating that the effect of the chromaffin cell-derived active component is not mediated by one of the trk B ligands. This was confirmed by co-treatment studies with the trk-signalling pathway inhibitor K252b, which did not inhibit the effect of the chromaffin cell-derived protein(s). Further studies revealed that NADPH-diaphorase reactivity is inducible in spinal cord neurons at any time point throughout the entire culture period of six days, suggesting de novo induction of the enzyme rather than a survival-promoting effect of the activity from chromaffin cells. Culture supernatants from nicotine-stimulated bovine chromaffin cells induced NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons at the same magnitude as the material obtained from chromaffin granule preparations. Our data suggest that chromaffin cell-derived proteins are capable of up-regulating NADPH-diaphorase activity or to induce de novo this transmitter phenotype in neuron populations of the spinal cord, which may include preganglionic sympathetic neurons.
Herpes simplex virus displays tropism for neurons and other polarized epithelial cells. We have grown human retinal pigment epithelial cells in culture to study potential mechanisms whereby herpes simplex virus (type I) is transported from the plasma membrane of the cell to the nucleus. The cells were highly polarized as determined by a variety of criteria. They were tightly coupled by junctional complexes, as determined by electron microscopy, immunofluorescent staining of tight junctions and measurements of transepithelial electrical resistances &gt; 200 omega cm2. Immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy were used to visualize microtubule orientation. The microtubules were arranged (i) in a single apical cilium, (ii) in a meshwork beneath the apical membrane and (iii) in longitudinally arranged bundles near the lateral membranes and nucleus. The latter microtubules were primarily oriented with their plus ends directed toward the basal surface of the cells. We infected retinal pigment epithelial cells at the apical surface with virus and assayed the uptake and transport of virus to the nucleus by quantitative immunoblot and immunocytochemical staining for the viral immediate early gene product, infected cell protein 4. The antigen first appeared in retinal pigment epithelial cells 2 h after infection. Treatment of the cells with 33 microM nocodazole, a microtubule-destabilizing drug, delayed the appearance of the viral antigen by 1 h. The effect of nocodazole treatment on microtubule integrity was confirmed by immunofluorescent staining and immunoblots of tubulin. Both cytoplasmic dynein and the ubiquitous form of kinesin were identified in the cells using immunoblots. These novel data indicate that human retinal pigment epithelial cells, like neurons, are susceptible to infection by herpes simplex virus and that the centripetal transport of virus to the nucleus in both cell types is facilitated by microtubules. The orientation of microtubules in retinal pigment epithelial cells suggests that the transport of herpes simplex virus from the apical surface is mediated by a microtubule-activated motor enzyme, possibly kinesin.
Ciguatoxin-1b, the major toxin involved in ciguatera fish poisoning, and D-mannitol were examined on frog nodes of Ranvier using confocal laser scanning microscopy and conventional current- and voltage-clamp techniques. During the action of 10 nM ciguatoxin-1b, an increase in nodal volume was observed as determined by digital image processing and three-dimensional reconstruction of axons. The increase was prevented by blocking Na+ channels with tetrodotoxin. Ciguatoxin-1b (10 nM) induced high frequency action potential discharges up to 70-100 Hz. Analysis of Na+ current revealed that the toxin modified a current fraction which was activated at resting membrane potential and failed to inactivate. Increasing the osmolality of the external solution by about 50% with D-mannitol restored the nodal volume to its control value and suppressed spontaneous action potentials. In addition, D-mannitol affected unmodified and ciguatoxin-1b-treated Na+ currents in a similar manner causing a reduction of maximum conductance, negative shifts of current reversal potential and modification of the voltage-dependence of current activation and inactivation. In conclusion, ciguatoxin-1b induced a tetrodotoxin-sensitive swelling of nodes of Ranvier and selectively affected the Na+ current of myelinated axons. It is proposed that ciguatoxin-1b, by modifying Na+ current, increased intracellular Na+ concentration which caused water influx and nodal swelling. This may explain some of the reported symptoms of ciguatera fish poisoning. D-mannitol, an agent used for ciguatera treatment, was found to reverse the effects of ciguatoxin-1b by reducing Na+ entry and increasing the efflux of water through its osmotic action. It is the first time that osmotic changes produced by the selective activation of ionic channels, i.e. Na+ channels, are reported.
In neonatal animals, axotomy of facial motoneurons induces cell death. Using the TUNEL technique, which labelled apoptotic DNA breaks in situ, the kinetics of motoneuron death were studied. Lesion of the right facial nerve were performed on two-day-old mice. Then, animals were perfused 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, 32, 48, 72 and 120 h after the lesion. Our results provide direct evidence that, following an axotomy, facial motoneurons die through an apoptotic process. We showed that apoptotic neurons can be detected as early as 16 h after the lesion. Facial motoneurons die within 120 h, with a peak observed 28 h after the lesion. The kinetics of appearance of apoptotic cells were correlated with the loss of Cresyl Violet-stained motoneurons. Furthermore, labelled cells were observed in the contralateral side of the lesion, suggesting that spontaneous apoptotic cell death occurs during the postnatal period. The same study was performed on transgenic mice overexpressing the proto-oncogene bcl-2, a gene repressor of cell death. In these mice, no TUNEL-labelled cells were detected on the lesioned and unlesioned sides. In vivo, Bcl-2 may protect motoneurons from apoptotic death following axotomy and during naturally occurring cell death. These results suggest that these two types of cell death may occur via the same mechanism.
In an electrophysiological study in anaesthetized rats, the involvement of calcitonin gene-related peptide in the spinal processing of mechanosensory information from the normal and inflamed knee joint was investigated. Calcitonin gene-related peptide(8-37), a specific antagonist at calcitonin gene-related peptide 1 receptors was administered ionophoretically close to nociceptive neurons with input from the knee joint before, during, and after development of acute inflammation in the knee induced by the intra-articular injections of kaolin and carrageenan. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (8-37) selectively antagonized the effects of ionophoretically applied calcitonin gene-related peptide but not those of ionophoretically applied substance P, neurokinin A, and (R,S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid. Before inflammation, calcitonin gene-related peptide (8-37) reduced the responses to noxious pressure applied to the knee in 22 of 23 neurons; in 14 of 22 neurons, the responses to innocuous pressure were also reduced. In eight neurons calcitonin gene-related peptide (8-37) was administered during induction and in three periods within the first 90 min of inflammation. In these neurons the developing inflammation evoked a significantly smaller increase of the responses to innocuous and noxious pressure applied to the injected knee than in 13 control neurons which were not treated by the antagonist during induction of inflammation. In 16 of 16 neurons, calcitonin gene-related peptide (8-37) reduced the responses to innocuous and noxious pressure once inflammation and hyperexcitability of the spinal cord neurons were established. These data show that calcitonin gene-related peptide is involved in the spinal processing of mechanosensory input from the normal joint. Furthermore, this peptide and its spinal receptors significantly contribute to the generation and expression of inflammation-evoked hyperexcitability of spinal cord neurons during the development of inflammation. Finally, calcitonin gene-related peptide is involved in the maintenance of inflammation-evoked hyperexcitability. By these effects calcitonin gene-related peptide receptors may significantly contribute to the neuronal basis of hyperalgesia and allodynia associated with inflammation.
Systemic administration or local injection to the rat hindpaw of leukemia inhibitory factor induced a prolonged, dose dependent, mechanical hypersensitivity of the hindpaw flexion withdrawal reflex. Mechanical stimuli which were innocuous prior to leukemia inhibitory factor administration, evoked a rapid hindpaw withdrawal reflex indicative of mechanical allodynia. Pre-administration of anti-leukemia inhibitory factor antibodies prevented this behavioural hypersensitivity. Hindpaw sensitivity to a noxious thermal stimulus was unaffected by leukemia inhibitory factor administration. Anti-leukemia inhibitory factor had no effect upon hindpaw withdrawal thresholds when injected alone nor influenced the mechanical hypersensitivity produced by a subcutaneous injection of nerve growth factor. Injection of the closely related cytokine ciliary neurotrophic factor did not affect mechanical or thermal reflex withdrawal thresholds. Elevation of the neuroactive cytokine leukemia inhibitory factor following peripheral nerve injury may be a contributory factor to the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain.
We report on the ability of a delayed sympathectomy after a prolonged hyperalgesia to result in a subsequent enhanced hyperalgesic response. Sympathectomy was performed one day after injection of prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram, which induces a prolonged sympathetically-maintained hyperalgesia [Aley K. O. and Levine J. D. (1995) Eur. J. Pharmac. 273, 107-112]. The duration of hyperalgesia produced by a subsequent injection of prostaglandin E2 or prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram was then assessed. Lumbar surgical sympathectomy, done on day 2 or 3, prevented prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram-induced prolonged hyperalgesia from developing when they were injected five days after surgery, similar to the previous report of the effect of prior sympathectomy to block the rolipram enhancement [Aley K. O. and Levine J. D. (1995) Eur. J. Pharmac. 273, 107-112]. Sympathectomy done five days after injection of prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram, however, paradoxically prolonged (at least 10 days) hyperalgesia induced by a subsequent prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram injection, a duration much greater than that seen after prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram in naive animals. To determine the roles of prostaglandin E2 and rolipram in the prolongation of hyperalgesic response after delayed sympathectomy, rats were treated with either prostaglandin E2 or rolipram prior to sympathectomy. Prostaglandin E2 or rolipram alone were also administered five days after the sympathectomy. It was found that sympathectomy done five days after first injecting either prostaglandin E2 or rolipram alone did not produce enhanced hyperalgesic response. These data suggest that induction of a prolonged state of mechanical hyperalgesia causes time-dependent alterations in the sympathetic control of peripheral nociceptive mechanisms such that sympathectomy can lead to enhanced hyperalgesic response. These findings may be relevant to post-sympathectomy pain, a clinical entity for which there has been no available animal models.
The somatostatin receptor subtypes SSTR2 and SSTR5 mediate distinct endocrine and exocrine functions of somatostatin and may also be involved in mediating the neuromodulatory actions of somatostatin in the brain. To investigate whether these receptors couple to voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels, SSTR2 and SSTR5 selective agonists were tested for their effects on AtT-20 cells using whole cell patch clamp techniques. The SSTR2 selective agonist MK 678 inhibited Ca2+ currents in AtT-20 cells. The effects of MK 678 were reversible and blocked by pertussis toxin pretreatment, suggesting that SSTR2 couples to the L-type Ca2+ channels via G proteins. Other SSTR2-selective agonists, including BIM 23027 and NC8-12, were able to inhibit the Ca2+ currents in these cells. The SSTR5 selective agonist BIM 23052 also inhibited the Ca2+ currents in these cells and this effect was reversible and blocked by pertussis toxin treatment. The ability of SSTR5 to mediate inhibition of the Ca2+ current was greatly attenuated by pretreatment with the SSTR5-selective agonist BIM 23052, whereas SSTR2-mediated inhibition of the Ca2+ current was not altered by pretreatment with the SSTR2-selective agonist MK 678. Thus, the SSTR2 and SSTR5 couplings to the Ca2+ current are differentially regulated. The peptide L362,855, which we previously have shown to have high affinity for the cloned SSTR5, had minimal effects on Ca2+ currents in AtT-20 cells at concentrations up to 100 nM and did not alter the ability of MK 678 to inhibit Ca2+ currents. However, it completely antagonized the effects of the SSTR5-selective agonist BIM 23052 on the Ca2+ currents. L362,855 is an antagonist/partial agonist at SSTR5 since it can reduce Ca2+ currents in these cells at concentrations above 100 nM. L362,855 is also an antagonist/partial agonist at the cloned rat SSTR5 expressed in CHO cells since it is able to block the inhibition of cAMP accumulation induced by somatostatin at concentrations below 100 nM but at higher concentrations can inhibit cAMP formation itself. Structural analysis of L362,855 reveals that only a single hydroxyl group at residue seven in the peptide is needed to convert the compound from an antagonist/partial agonist to a full agonist at SSTR5. These studies reveal that two different somatostatin receptor subtypes, SSTR2 and SSTR5, can mediate the inhibition of an L-type Ca2+ channel in AtT-20 cells by somatostatin. The receptor subtype responses can be distinguished by selective agonists and antagonists and are regulated differently by agonist pretreatment. The inhibition of Ca2+ influx into endocrine cells and neurons may be a major cellular mechanism by which somatostatin modulates hormone and neurotransmitter release. Our results reveal that at least two receptor subtypes can mediate this cellular response.
In rodents, reproductively relevant pheromonal cues are detected by receptors in the vomeronasal organ, which in turn transmit this information centrally via the accessory olfactory bulb, the medial nucleus of the amygdala, the posterior medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the medial preoptic area. In the rat, more neurons are present in males than in females at virtually every relay in this vomeronasal projection circuit. Using Fos immunoreactivity as a marker of neuronal activation, we compared the ability of pheromonal cues derived from the urine and feces of estrous or anestrous female rats to activate neurons in this vomeronasal projection circuit in sexually experienced, gonadectomized male and female rats which were chronically treated in adulthood with a high dose of testosterone propionate (5 mg/kg). When compared with rats killed after 2 h of exposure to clean bedding, male and female subjects exposed for 2 h to bedding from estrous females had similar and significant increments in the number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons at each level of the vomeronasal projection circuit, including the granular layer of the accessory olfactory bulb, the posterior dorsal portion of the medial amygdaloid nucleus, the posterior medial portion of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the medial preoptic area. Exposure to bedding from anestrous females stimulated similar and significant increments in Fos immunoreactivity in most of these same brain regions. Chemosensory stimulation failed to augment Fos immunoreactivity in neurons located in the ventrolateral subregion of the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus or in the midbrain central tegmental field, sites at which mating has previously been shown to augment Fos immunoreactivity in both sexes. Finally, chemosensory stimulation augmented Fos immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens shell and core, two regions receiving dopaminergic afferents which have been implicated in sexual reward. On two occasions all subjects were given simultaneous access to bowls containing bedding from estrous versus anestrous females. Both males and females spent significantly more time investigating the estrous bedding, although the total time spent investigating either type of bedding was significantly greater in males. The results suggest that the previously established sexual dimorphism in the morphology of the rat's vomeronasal projection circuit is not reflected in the functional responsiveness of neurons in this circuit to chemosensory cues emitted by female conspecifics.
Endothelins are a range of peptides (endothelin-1, endothelin-2, and endothelin-3) well known to act peripherally as powerful cardiovascular-regulating agents. Recently, they have been shown to be localized in CSN, where they may act as central neurotransmitters. A variety of putative roles has been ascribed to them in the CNS. To identify those regions of the brain capable of responding to these peptides, the expression of c-fos (an immediate-early gene), has been used to map patterns of activation following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusions of endothelins in Lister-hooded rats. This has been correlated with changes in heart rate, core temperature and plasma corticosterone levels. Endothelin-3 i.c.v. (50 pmol) decreased both heart rate and core temperature (both recorded by telemetry). This effect lasted for about 30-45 min. Endothelin-1 (10 pmol) or endothelin-3 (50 pmol) i.c.v. induced c-fos expression in the specific regions in the forebrain and brainstem. Strong expression was found in the septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, parvicellular paraventricular nucleus, the central nucleus of the amygdala, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and solitary nucleus. There was less marked c-fos expression in other areas of the basal forebrain, such as the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminals, median preoptic nucleus, supraoptic nucleus and the magnocellular. There are two classes of endothelin receptor (A and B). An endothelin-A receptor antagonist, BQ-123, abolished c-fos expression in all structures in the forebrain and brainstem following endothelin-1 infusions. However, an endothelin-B agonist (TetraAla endothelin-1) did not induce discernible c-fos expression in the forebrain or brainstem. These results suggest that the endothelin-A receptor is responsible for endothelin-dependent c-fos induction in the brain. Interactions between endothelins and angiotensin II were also studied. The pattern of c-fos induced by endothelin-3 and angiotensin II was different (particularly in the anteroventral region of the third ventricle). Furthermore, prior infusions of endothelin-3 interfered with the expression of c-fos induced by subsequent angiotensin II, and also suppressed the latter's dipsogenic effect. These results show that endothelin-3 and angiotensin II interact at both behavioural and cellular levels, and that endothelins may play significant roles in the central control of fluid balance and autonomic activity.
Neuronal death in neurodegenerative diseases may involve energy impairment leading to secondary excitotoxicity, and free radical generation. Potential therapies for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases therefore include glutamate release blockers, excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists, agents that improve mitochondrial function, and free radical scavengers. In the present study we examined whether these strategies either alone or in combination had neuroprotective effects against striatal lesions produced by mitochondrial toxins. The glutamate release blockers lamotrigine and BW1003C87 significantly attenuated lesions produced by intrastriatal administration of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium. Lamotrigine significantly attenuated lesions produced by systemic administration of 3-nitropropionic acid. Memantine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, protected against malonate induced striatal lesions. We previously found that coenzyme Q10 and nicotinamide, and the free radical spin trap n-tert-butyl-alpha-(2-sulfophenyl)-nitrone (S-PBN) dose-dependently protect against lesions produced by intrastriatal injection of malonate. In the present study we found that the combination of MK-801 (dizocipiline) with coenzyme Q10 exerted additive neuroprotective effects against malonate. Lamotrigine with coenzyme Q10 was more effective than coenzyme Q10 alone. The combination of nicotinamide with S-PBN was more effective than nicotinamide alone. These results provide further evidence that glutamate release inhibitors and N-acetyl-D-aspartate antagonists can protect against secondary excitotoxic lesions in vivo. Furthermore, they show that combinations of agents which act at sequential steps in the neurodegenerative process can produce additive neuroprotective effects. These findings suggest that combinations of therapies to improve mitochondrial function, to block excitotoxicity and to scavenge free radicals may be useful in treating neurodegenerative diseases.
The protein tyrosine phosphatase SH-PTP2 has been implicated in a variety of cell signaling cascades, including those mediating neuronal survival. We therefore investigated the expression of SH-PTP2 in the adult human nervous system using Western blotting, immunohistochemistry and immunoelectron microscopy. SH-PTP2 immunoreactivity was noted only in neurons, but was not restricted to a specific neuronal type or location. Immunohistochemistry showed perikaryal staining, whereas Western blotting and ultrastructural analysis suggested that SH-PTP2 is present in axons as well. While immunohistochemistry showed a Nissl-like pattern in large motor neurons, immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated a diffuse pattern of cytoplasmic staining, without apparent preferential localization. The presence of the SH2 domain-containing tyrosine-specific phosphatase SH-PTP2 in diverse neurons in the adult nervous system suggests that SH-PTP2 may play a role in a broad spectrum of neuronal responses.
The effects of beta-adrenoceptor activation on short-term potentiation in the medial and lateral amygdala were investigated using rat brain slice preparations in vitro. Application of tetanic stimulation (100 pulses at 100 Hz) induced only short-term potentiation under normal recording conditions. In the medial amygdala, when the same tetanic stimulation was applied in the presence of a beta-adrenoceptor agonist, isoproterenol, short-term potentiation was significantly enhanced and long-term potentiation was induced. Phenylephrine, an alpha-adrenoceptor agonist, did not affect short-term potentiation. The short-term potentiation-enhancing effect of isoproterenol was mimicked by forskolin, an adenylate cyclase activator, and was blocked by Rp-adenosine-3',5'-cyclic-monophosphothioate, an inhibitor of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase. On the other hand, in the lateral amygdala, isoproterenol suppressed short-term potentiation. The short-term potentiation-suppressing effect of isoproterenol was mimicked by forskolin, and was blocked by Rp-adenosine-3',5'-cyclic-monophosphothioate. These results suggest that the beta-adrenoceptor-cyclic AMP system plays a role in facilitating the induction of long-term potentiation in the medial amygdala, but suppresses synaptic plasticity in the lateral amygdala.
We report here the expression of mutant proteins displaying the +1 reading frame of the vasopressin and oxytocin precursors in magnocellular neurons of the human hypothalamus. Our data demonstrate a high frequency of frameshift mutations in these neurons and thus provide the first evidence of somatic mutations in neurons of the human brain. The results imply that other neuronal populations and specific genes may also undergo similar mutational events with possible consequences for neuronal functioning and pathology.
The distribution of voltage-dependent calcium channel subunits in the central nervous system may provide information about the function of these channels. The present study examined the distribution of three alpha-1 subunits, alpha 1A, alpha 1B and alpha 1E, in the normal human hippocampal formation and parahippocampal gyrus using the techniques of in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry. All three subunit mRNAs appeared to be similarly localized, with high levels of expression in the dentate granule and CA pyramidal layer. At the protein level, alpha 1A, alpha 1B and alpha 1E subunits were differentially localized. In general, alpha 1A-immunoreactivity was most intense in cell bodies and dendritic processes, including dentate granule cells, CA3 pyramidal cells and entorhinal cortex pre-alpha and pri-alpha cells. The alpha 1B antibody exhibited relatively weak staining of cell bodies but stronger staining of neuropil, especially in certain regions of high synaptic density such as the polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus and the stratum lucidum and radiatum of the CA regions. The alpha 1E staining pattern shared features in common with both alpha 1A and alpha 1B, with strong immunoreactivity in dentate granule, CA3 pyramidal and entorhinal cortex pri-alpha cells, as well as staining of the CA3 stratum lucidum. These findings suggest regions in which particular subunits may be involved in synaptic communication. For example, comparison of alpha 1B and alpha 1E staining in the CA3 stratum lucidum with calbindin-immuno-reactivity suggested that these two calcium channels subunits may be localized presynaptically in mossy fibre terminals and therefore may be involved in neurotransmitter release from these terminals.
Rat hippocampal neurons, grown in dissociated culture for about 18 days, were exposed for 6 h to three days to stimuli which cause either an increase (GABAA antagonists, bicuculline or picrotoxin), or decrease (tetrodotoxin) in spontaneous neuronal activity. Individual neurons were stained with 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethyl-indocarbocyanine perchlorate and visualized with a confocal laser scanning microscope. GABA antagonists caused a marked, up to 60%, increase in spine density on secondary dendrites of cultured hippocampal neurons. This was associated with a small decrease in spine length. The rise in spine density was partially prevented by treatment with the calcium chelator 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N,N-tetra-acetate, or by blockade of protein synthesis with cycloheximide. Tetrodotoxin caused a marked elongation of dendritic spines (but did not cause a decrease in spine density comparable to the increase caused by picrotoxin). This effect was seen primarily but not exclusively in spines with no distinct head. Both treatments were most effective within 24 h of exposure. There were no other systematic effects of the drugs on the morphology of the dendritic spines. These results indicate that dendritic spines in cultured neurons depend on ongoing synaptic activity to maintain their shape, and that neurons respond to an increase in synaptic demand by an increase in spine density. Thus, dendritic spines are likely to have a role in short-term synaptic interaction rather than to constitute a long-term memory storage device.
[125I]- and [123I]NNC 13-8241 were prepared from the trimethyltin precursor and radioactive iodide using the chloramine-T method. The total radiochemical yields of [125I]- and [123I]NNC 13-8241 were 60-70% and 40-50% respectively, with radiochemical purity higher than 98%. In binding studies with [125I]NNC 13-8241 in rats in vitro and in vivo a high uptake of radioactivity was demonstrated in brain regions known to have a high density of benzodiazepine (BZ) receptors such as the occipital and frontal cortex. SPECT examination with [123I]NNC 13-8241 in a Cynomolgus monkey demonstrated a high uptake of radioactivity in the occipital and frontal cortex. After displacement with flumazenil radioactivity in these brain regions was reduced to the level of a central region including the pons. Four hours after injection about 80% of the radioactivity in monkey plasma represented unchanged radioligand. This low degree of metabolism indicates that NNC 13-8241 is metabolically more stable than the radioligands hitherto developed for imaging of BZ-receptors in the primate brain.

Haptic cues from fingertip contact with a stable surface attenuate body sway in subjects even when the contact forces are too small to provide physical support of the body. We investigated how haptic cues derived from contact of a cane with a stationary surface at low force levels aids postural control in sighted and congenitally blind individuals. Five sighted (eyes closed) and five congenitally blind subjects maintained a tandem Romberg stance in five conditions: (1) no cane; (2,3) touch contact (&lt; 2 N of applied force) while holding the cane in a vertical or slanted orientation; and (4,5) force contact (as much force as desired) in the vertical and slanted orientations. Touch contact of a cane at force levels below those necessary to provide significant physical stabilization was as effective as force contact in reducing postural sway in all subjects, compared to the no-cane condition. A slanted cane was far more effective in reducing postural sway than was a perpendicular cane. Cane use also decreased head displacement of sighted subjects far more than that of blind subjects. These results suggest that head movement control is linked to postural control through gaze stabilization reflexes in sighted subjects; such reflexes are absent in congenitally blind individuals and may account for their higher levels of head displacement.
Visually perceived eye level (VPEL) and the ability of subjects to reach with an unseen limb to targets placed at VPEL were measured in a statically pitched visual surround (pitchroom). VPEL was shifted upward and downward by upward and downward room pitch, respectively. Accuracy in reaching to VPEL represented a compromise between VPEL and actual eye level. This indicates that VPEL shifts reflect in part a change in perceived location of objects. When subjects were provided with terminal visual feedback about their reaching, accuracy improved rapidly. Subsequent reaching, with the room vertical, revealed a negative aftereffect (i.e., reaching errors that were opposite those made initially in the pitched room). In a second study, pointing accuracy was assessed for targets located both at VPEL and at other positions. Errors were similar for targets whether located at VPEL or elsewhere. Additionally, pointing responses were restricted to a narrower range than that of the actual target locations. The small size of reaching and pointing errors in both studies suggests that factors other than a change in perceived location are also involved in VPEL shifts.
Rhythmically active medullary slice preparations isolated from neonatal rats (postnatal days 0-3, P0-P3) were used to study the modulation of respiraory rhythmogenesis and hypoglossal (XII) nerve discharge by serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) and noradrenaline (NA). 5-HT, NA and their respective receptor agonists and antagonists were applied either to the bathing medium or focally via pressure injection into regions encompassing the pre-Botzinger complex or XII motoneurons. The effects of endogenously released 5-HT were also studied by chemical stimulation of neurons within the raphe obscurus. The frequency of respiratory burst discharge was increased when 5-HT was applied: (1) to the bathing medium (37+/-16%; 30 &quot;mu&quot;M; P &lt; 0.05); (2) via pressure injection into the region of the pre-Botzinger complex (22 +/- 14%; &lt; 25 pmol; P &lt; 0. 05); or (3) endogenously released in response to activation of neurons within the raphe obscurus via pressure injection of (R,S)- &quot;alpha&quot;-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid hydrobromide (AMPA, 34 +/- 15%; P &lt; 0.05) or 5-HT (33 +/- 5%; P &lt; 0. 05). All of these effects were antagonized by bath application of methysergide (30-40 &quot;mu&quot;M). NA caused a reduction of respiratory burst frequency when applied to the bathing medium (40 +/- 15%; 100 &quot;mu&quot;M; P &lt; 0.05) or when pressure injected into the region of the pre-Botzinger complex (22 +/- 11%; &lt; 25 pmol; P &lt; 0.05). These effects were blocked by the bath application of the &quot;alpha&quot;2-receptor antagonist idazoxan (2 &quot;mu&quot;M). 5-HT and NA both caused an augmentation of tonic discharge of XII nerves when applied either to the bathing medium or via pressure injection into the XII motoneuron pool. The 5-HT-induced XII nerve tonic discharge was mimicked by the 5-HT2 receptor agonist R(-)2-(2, 5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl) (DOI.HCl, 5 &quot;mu&quot;M) and blocked by the 5-HT2 receptor antagonist ketanserine tartrate (30-40 &quot;mu&quot;M). The NA-induced XII nerve tonic discharge was mimicked by the &quot;alpha&quot;1-receptor agonist phenylephrine HCl (500 nM) and blocked by the &quot;alpha&quot;1-receptor antagonist prozasin HCl (1 &quot;mu&quot;M).


For many decades, the inability of lesioned central neurons to regrow was accepted almost as a &quot;law of nature&quot;, and on the clinical level, spinal cord and brain lesions were seen as being irreversible. Today we are starting to understand the mechanisms of neuronal regeneration in the central nervous system and its presence in the periphery. There is now a rapid expansion in this field of neuroscience. Developmental neurobiology has produced tools and concepts that start to show their impact on regeneration research. This is particularly true for the availability of antibodies and factors and for the rapidly growing cellular and molecular understanding of crucial aspects of neurite growth, guidance, target finding, and synapse stabilization. New cell biological concepts on the mechanisms of neuron survival and death and on the interaction of inflammatory cells with the central nervous system also find their way into the field of spinal cord and brain lesions and have, indeed, led already to new therapeutic approaches. This review briefly summarizes the current knowledge on the mechanisms involved in degeneration and tissue loss and in axonal regeneration subsequent to spinal cord lesions, particularly in mammals and humans.
Two prominent intellectual disciplines dominate the discipline of psychology, the cognitive and neural sciences. Separate departments for both are now commonplace at major universities across America. I suggest, however, that the discipline of psychology asks key questions about experience, mind, or central states not found in other disciplines. Psychology is embodied in both the cognitive and neural sciences, and an important common thread is the Jamesian-Deweyian emphasis on experience. The Jamesian-Deweyian tradition emphasized the sense of experience in problem-solving and functional adaptations. The pragmatists' sense of experience is the way by which one engages the world, is inherently cognitive, and orchestrated by central states of the brain. Any attempt within the neural and cognitive sciences to capture human experience will need to resurrect this tradition.
The cholinergic hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has strongly influenced research on learning and memory over the last decade. However, there has been limited success treating AD dementia with cholinomimetics. Furthermore, there are indications that other neurotransmitter systems affected by this disease may be involved in cognitive processes. Animal studies have suggested that norepinephrine and acetylcholine may interact in learning and memory. The current experiments investigate this interaction in a step-down passive avoidance paradigm after coadministration of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonists. Administration of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors heptylphysostigmine (0.625-5.0 mg/kg, IP), tacrine (2.5-10.0 mg/kg, PO), velnacrine (0.312-2.5 mg/kg, SC), and galanthamine (0.312-2.5 mg/kg IP) each enhanced retention of a passive avoidance response at selected moderate doses administered 30-60 min prior to training. The alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonists idazoxan (0.312-2.5 mg/kg, IP), yohimbine (0.078-0.312 mg/kg, IP) and P86 7480 (0.156-0.625 mg/kg, IP) alone failed to enhance learning in this paradigm. Coadministration of a subthreshold dose of heptylphysostigmine (0.625 mg/kg, IP) with doses of idazoxan, yohimbine or P86 7480 enhanced passive avoidance learning. This synergistic interaction may represent effects of antagonism of presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptor since coadministration of heptylphysostigmine and the selective postsynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist SKF 104856 did not result in enhanced learning. Taken together these data suggest noradrenergic activation through pre-synaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptor blockade may potentiate cholinergic activity in the formation of a long-term memory trace. These observations may have implications for the treatment of AD with cholinergic and adrenergic agents.
SR141716A (Sanofi Recherche), a pyrazole derivative with high affinity for rat and human CB1 cannabinoid receptors, has recently been reported to reverse biochemical, physiological and behavioral effects induced by cannabinoid agonists. The present experiments characterized the activity of SR141716A (SR) in behavioral procedures designed to assess its antagonistic and intrinsic effects on unconditioned behavior and on complex learned behaviors. Six adult male pigeons were trained to discriminate injections of 0.56 mg/kg delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 9-THC) from vehicle under a two-key, fixed-ratio schedule of food reinforcement. SR (IM) produced a nearly complete blockade of THC-appropriate responding occasioned by the training dose without inducing significant changes in session response rates, but also produced partial substitution for delta 9-THC when administered alone. In another group of pigeons trained under a multiple schedule of signaled and unsignaled fixed consecutive number (FCN) responding, SR had little effect on accuracy, but delta 9-THC produced dose-related decreases in accuracy under both schedule components. SR was also evaluated in acoustic startle procedures in rats. SR produced little effect either on startle amplitude or prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle. In contrast, the potent cannabinomimetic CP-55, 940 produced large decreases in startle responses elicited by 120 dB [A] broad-band noise. These decreases were completely reversed by SR (10 mg/kg, IP). In concurrent measures, SR blocked the hypothermic effect CP-55,940. These results suggest that SR is an effective antagonist of the psychoactive effects of cannabinoids.
This study examined the effect of acute changes in oxygen tension on responses evoked by the bronchoconstrictor methacholine and the dilators salbutamol, atrial natriuretic peptide and isosorbide dinitrate in isolated bovine bronchi. Cumulative concentration-response curves to methacholine (10(-9)-3 x 10(-4) M) were constructed in three oxygen tensions; hyperoxia (95%), normoxia (20%) and hypoxia (4% O2). Oxygen tensions of 20% and 4% each significantly enhanced contractions to methacholine compared to those in 95% O2. There was no significant difference, however, between responses in 20 and 4%. The ability of salbutamol, atrial natriuretic peptide and isosorbide dinitrate to reverse methacholine induced tone was also compared in the three oxygen tensions (95%, 20% and 4%). Lowering the oxygen tension from 95% enhanced the ability of each of the drugs to reverse contraction, however the pattern differed between drugs; salbutamol was more effective in 20% O2 than 4%, atrial natriuretic peptide was more effective in 4% than either 95 or 20% O2 and isosorbide dinitrate was more effective in both 4 and 20% than 95% O2. In conclusion, both bronchoconstrictor and bronchodilator responses in 95% O2 (hyperoxia) differed from those in 20% O2 (normoxia) and further changes occurred on moving to 4% (hypoxia), although the direction of the changes varied among the dilators. This suggests that the responses evoked by bronchodilators in 95% O2 may not necessarily predict those in the physiological range of oxygen tensions and that the relative effectiveness of bronchodilators may vary between normoxic and hypoxic conditions.

A growing number of surgical trials include quality of life variables in the overall assessment of outcomes. This is believed to broaden the criteria for choice of treatment and the evaluation of treatment regimens. The present study is a baseline evaluation of the health-related quality of life in patients with gastric cancer facing surgery. The quality of life in these patients was related to that of other patient groups referred for surgical interventions and general population groups. Our study included 103 consecutive patients with carcinoma of the stomach considered amenable to a curative major surgical procedure. The quality of life evaluation was based on a battery of questionnaires, covering general body symptoms, mood level and functional limitations. Patients with gastric cancer reported more neurasthenic complaints such as reduced sexual interest, insomnia and poor appetite as well as a lower mood level than the general population. The gastric cancer group also showed a markedly lower mood level in comparison with a group of cancer survivors 2-3 years after diagnosis and patients with intermittent claudication. The mental well-being of gastric cancer patients matched that of cancer survivors with one or more recurrences. Overall, 25% of the gastric cancer patients reported functional limitations regarded as clinically significant. Patients with intermittent claudication reported more and patients with small cell lung cancer markedly more limitations. We conclude that although patients with gastric cancer showed a low level of limitations on average, problems in the areas of sleep/rest, home management and, especially, eating were frequently reported.
A bibliometric study was made of the Spanish scientific output in the Neurosciences between 1984 and 1993. The material studied was selected in accordance with the Science Citation Index (SCI) for the year 1993 (Neurosciences section) and from the journals considered to be a &quot;priority' by the data base Excepta Medica CD: Neurosciences. The usual bibliometric rules were used: price's law of scientific literature growth, Bradford's law of scientific literature dispersal and Lotka's law of author productivity. The national participation indices (IPa) in the leading publications with an international readership, the % SUP index (% of documents included in 10% of the world top quality production), the authors/articles index, institutional contributions and the geographical origin of these were all analyzed also. Our results showed an exponential growth in the Spanish neuroscientific literature (correlation coefficient: 0.981) and increasing IPa (period 1984-1988; 0.88; period 1989-1993: 1.59). A total of 1,488 original documents were analyzed. There was an impact factor (FI) of over 3 in 20.8% of the articles, with an average FI of 2.701. The % SUP was 6.07. The journal with the largest numbers of original papers in Brain Research (Bradford's first zone) with 186 articles and the largest IPa was in the Journal of Pineal Research (8.403). The total number of authors was 2,470, total signatures of authors were 5,958 (3.04% of the authors had a productivity index (IP) &gt; or = 1 and 57% an IP = 0. The average number of authors/article was 4.02. The origin of the articles was: University (56.77%), Hospital (26.73%) and CSIC (14.95%). Scientific production was concentrated in the CCAA of Madrid and Catalua 55.93%, followed by Andalucia, Castilla-Len and Valencia (22.57%).
Recent research into the developmental elimination of supernumerary synapses has increased understanding of this process. In this review we discuss synapse elimination both at the neuromuscular junction and in the central nervous system, considering some possible underlying mechanisms suggested by recent studies. In addition a well-described example of central nervous system synapse elimination, the climbing fiber-Purkinje cell synapse of the cerebellum, is used to explore the functional significance of synaptic regression during brain development.
In this contribution, I argue for epistemological impurity as the key to the historical reconstruction of the proto-biological sciences of the eighteenth century. The traditional approaches to the more or less complex and more or less stratified past of science either focus on the ideal content of that which has in the meantime been recognized as standard biological knowledge (transmitted from generation to generation by textbooks) or otherwise try to uncover the implicit cognitive principles at work in order to reveal their shortcomings (as measured against today's accepted criteria = epistemological presentism). A closer look at the breakdown of the classical models of mechanistic explanation and the detailed analysis of the new empirico-experimental research in the neurophysiology of the eighteenth century shows, however, that eclectic procedures of various kinds have dominated the field. This eclecticism (the principle of epistemological impurity) supported, and was in turn supported by, what has recently become known as &quot;thinking with one's hand.&quot; The paper illustrates this specific kind of thinking (and experimental acting) with reference to the case of Nicolas Le Cat's microphysics of nervous activity.
The Patch-clamp technique, as an advanced electrophysiological technique, has been widely used for research in the life science research field. A recent trend is to combine this technique with other techniques, such as the Fura-2 microfluorimetry for measuring the concentration of Ca2+, electrochemical detection with carbon-fiber electrode (i.e. amperometric detection or amperometry), and single-cell reverse transcription of RNA followed by the polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). This article is to summarize the current status of the use of patch-clamp technique and its combinations with other techniques in solving problems related with transmembrane signal transduction in neurobiology.
In endemic regions, hypothalamic tuberculoma has to be kept in mind, and treatment instituted on suspicion. The disease may cause hypothalamopituitary insufficiency and inadequate response to surgical stress. A case of hypothalamic tuberculoma presenting with hypopituitarism is presented.


The cocaine analogue beta-CIT-FE (N-(2-fluoroethyl)-2 beta-carbomethoxy-3 beta-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane) was labeled with 11C for positron emission tomography (PET) studies of the dopamine transporter. After intravenous administration to a cynomolgus monkey, [11C]beta-CIT-FE accumulated in the striatum with a striatum-to-cerebellum ratio of about 9 after 60 min. Pseudoequilibrium of specific [11C]beta-CIT-FE binding in the striatum was obtained within 30-50 min. The radioactivity ratios of the thalamus to the cerebellum and the neocortex to the cerebellum were about 2 and 1.5, respectively. In displacement and pretreatment experiments, radioactivity in the striatum but not in the cerebellum was reduced after injection of beta-CIT or the dopamine transporter inhibitor GBR 12909, indicating that striatal radioactivity following injection of [11C]beta-CIT-FE represents reversible binding to dopamine transporter sites. After displacement or pretreatment with cocaine there was a marked effect not only in the striatum but also in the thalamus and neocortex. [11C]beta-CIT-FE has potential as a useful PET radioligand for quantitation of the dopamine transporter in the primate brain in vivo.

Recent postmortem studies have reported a marked upregulation of GABAA receptor binding activity in the anterior cingulate and prefrontal cortices of schizophrenic subjects. Because the hippocampal formation is a key corticolimbic region that has also been implicated by both postmortem and brain imaging studies in the pathophysiology of this disorder, the current report has sought to determine whether alterations of GABAA receptor binding might also be detected in this region from 15 normal controls and 8 schizophrenic subjects. Using a low resolution autoradiographic approach, the results show a significant increase of specific GABAA receptor binding activity in the area dentata (granule cell layer), CA4, CA3 (str. oriens, str. pyramidale), subiculum, and presubiculum of the schizophrenic group. The magnitude of the increase was greatest in CA3 and lowest in the CA1 sector. When high resolution analyses were performed on emulsion-coverslip preparations, a modest increase of binding (43%, P = 0.05) was observed on pyramidal, but not non-pyramidal neurons in sector CA1. Rather unexpectedly, GABAA binding in sector CA3 was not significantly different on pyramidal cells, but was almost three-fold higher (P = 0.015) on non-pyramidal neurons of the schizophrenic group. There was no relationship of age or the postmortem interval to the parameters showing significant changes in the schizophrenic group. Moreover, patients both with and without neuroleptic exposure showed upregulation of GABAA receptor binding activity. Taking together the rather modest increase of binding activity in CA1 and the more marked upregulation in CA3, as well as the differential changes on pyramidal neurons of CA1 vs. non-pyramidal neurons in CA3, the findings reported here are consistent with the possibility that a disturbance of brain development could have occurred either perinatally or perhaps even well into the postnatal period, and have given rise to discreet subregional and cellular alterations of disinhibitory GABAergic modulation in sector CA3 of schizophrenics. Overall, the data reported here provide further evidence that alterations of GABAergic activity may occur in the hippocampal formation of schizophrenic patients.
Cognition and acquisition of novel motor skills and responses to emotional stimuli are thought to involve complex networking between pyramidal and local GABAergic neurons in the prefrontal cortex. There is increasing evidence for the involvement of cortical norepinephrine (NE) deriving from the nucleus locus coeruleus (LC) in these processes, with possible reciprocal influence via descending projections from the prefrontal cortex to the region of the LC. We used in vivo intracellular recording in rat prefrontal cortex to determine the synaptic responses of individual neurons to single electrical stimulation of the mesencephalic region including the nucleus LC. The most common response consisted of a late-IPSP alone or preceded by an EPSP. The presence of an early-IPSP following the EPSP was sometimes detected. Analysis of the voltage dependence revealed that the late-IPSP and early-IPSP were putative K(+)- and Cl- dependent, respectively. Synaptic events occurred following short delays and were inconsistent with the previously reported time for electrical activation of unmyelinated LC fibers. Moreover, systemic injection of the adrenergic antagonists propranolol (beta receptors), or prazosin (alpha 1 receptors), did not block synaptic responses to stimulation of the LC region. Finally, certain neurons were antidromically activated following electrical stimulation of this region of the dorsal pontine tegmentum. Taken together, these results suggest that the complex synaptic events in pyramidal neurons of the prefrontal cortex that are elicited by single electrical stimulation of the LC area are mainly due to antidromic activation of cortical efferents. Further insight into the chemical circuitry underlying these complex synaptic responses was provided by electron microscopic immunocytochemical analysis of the relations between the physiologically characterized neurons and either 1) GABA or 2) dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH), a marker for noradrenergic terminals. GABA-immunoreactive terminals formed numerous direct symmetric synapses on somata and dendrites of pyramidal cells recorded and filled with lucifer yellow (LY). In contrast, in single sections, noradrenergic terminals immunoreactive for DBH rarely contacted LY-filled somata and dendrites. These results support the conclusion that IPSPs observed following single electrical stimulation of the LC region are mediated by GABA, with little involvement of NE. These IPSPs, arising from antidromic invasion of mPFC cells innervating the LC, may improve the signal-to-noise ratio and favor a better responsiveness of neighboring neurons to NE released in the mPFC.

Action potentials in neurones are followed by a hyperpolarization, which can last up to several seconds. This hyperpolarization has several phases that are mediated by the activation of different types of Ca(2+)-activated K+ currents. Patch-clamp studies have revealed two families of Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels of small (SKCa) and high (BKCa) conductance. Activation of BKCa channels contributes to action-potential repolarization, while SKCa channels are thought to underlie the afterhyperpolarization (AHP). In addition, AHPs in neurones can be divided into two distinct types that are easily separated by kinetic and pharmacological criteria. It is now clear that only one type of AHP can be explained by activation of SKCa channels while a new type of Ca(2+)-activated K+ channel underlies the other. Modulation of this channel by a range of transmitters is a key determinant of the excitability of many neurones.
Neurons can operate in two distinct ways, depending on the duration of the interval over which they effectively summate incoming synaptic potentials. If this interval is of the order of the mean interspike interval or longer, neurons act effectively as temporal integrators and transmit temporal patterns with only low reliability. If, by contrast, the integration interval is short compared to the interspike interval, neurons act essentially as coincidence detectors, relay preferentially synchronized input, and the temporal structure of their output is a direct function of the input pattern. Recently, interest in this distinction has been revived because experimental and theoretical results suggest that synchronous firing of neurons might play an important role for information processing in the cortex. Here, we argue that coincidence detection, rather than temporal integration, might be a prevalent operation mode of cortical neurons. We base our arguments on established biophysical properties of cortical neurons and on particular features of cortical dynamics.

Choleragenoid horseradish peroxidase (B-HRP) is a retrogradely transported marker that selectively labels large cutaneous myelinated primary afferent fibers. In adults, B-HRP labelled large afferent fibers are seen to enter laminae III-V, and to a lesser extent lamina I, whereas lamina II, which is the major termination site of unmyelinated primary afferents, remains unlabelled. In the neonate, however, there is extensive B-HRP label in lamina II. The present study shows that the B-HRP labelled fibers in the neonate make many synaptic contacts in lamina II. This supports the idea that large primary afferent fibers in neonatal animals make synaptic contact with post-synaptic targets that presumably process nociceptive information. Accordingly to ameliorate pain in neonates it may be more important to block low threshold sensory input whereas in adults it would be more important to block the high threshold inputs.
Amphibian bombesin is the prototypic peptide that defines the bombesin-like peptide family. In this paper we show that in the frog Bombina orientalis, there are actually 3 distinct forms of bombesin, and each of these peptides is an agonist with differing affinities for the known bombesin receptors. Oligonucleotides complementary to the 5'- and 3'-untranslated regions of the bombesin mRNA were used to amplify bombesin-related cDNAs from the skin, brain, and gut of B. orientalis. Three classes of cDNAs were found. One class encoded the previously characterized form of bombesin which has a Leu at position 13 ([Leu13]bombesin). The other two classes, respectively, encoded new bombesin-like peptides which we have designated as [Phe13]bombesin and [Ser3,Arg10,Phe13]bombesin ([SAP]bombesin). The existence of [SAP]bombesin in skin was confirmed by tandem mass spectrometry. Polymerase chain reaction analysis of genomic DNA showed the mRNAs for [Leu13]bombesin, [Phe13]bombesin, and [SAP]bombesin most likely arise from separate genes. Polymerase chain reaction analysis showed different patterns of tissue-specific expression for each form. [Leu13]Bombesin and [SAP]bombesin were predominantly expressed in skin, brain, and gut; [Phe13]bombesin was expressed only in brain, and [Leu13]bombesin predominated in oocytes. [SAP]Bombesin contained a cleavage site between residues 4 and 5, which if used would yield the peptide [SAP]bombesin(5-14) which has the sequence [Gln3,Arg6]neuromedin B. Thus a frog homolog of NMB could derive from the [SAP]bombesin prohormone. [Phe13]Bombesin, [SAP]bombesin, and [SAP]bombesin(5-14) were synthesized and their affinities for the mammalian bombesin-like peptide (GRP and NMB) receptors determined. These peptides acted as agonists for the GRP and NMB receptors, with relative potencies for the GRP receptor of [Leu13]bombesin &gt; [Phe13]bombesin &gt; [SAP]bombesin(5-14) &gt; [SAP]bombesin and for the NMB receptor of [Phe13]bombesin &gt; [SAP]bombesin(5-14) &gt; [Leu13]bombesin &gt; [SAP]bombesin. None of these peptides demonstrated high affinity binding for the BRS-3 receptor. The different receptor affinities and tissue distribution of these peptides suggests distinct physiologic roles and raises the possibility of as yet uncharacterized mammalian homologs of these new amphibian peptides.
Expression of trk receptors is a major determinant of neurotrophin responsiveness of sensory neurons. Although it has been apparent for some time that subpopulations of dorsal root and trigeminal ganglion neurons respond in vitro to each of the members of the neurotrophin family, the extent to which functionally distinct subclasses of sensory neurons are dependent on the actions of different neurotrophins for their development and function remains an active area of investigation. One step towards elucidating the role of various neurotrophins in development and function of sensory neurons has been to examine the distribution of trk receptors on sensory neurons. These studies have clearly revealed that members of the trk family are differentially expressed in functionally distinct populations of both developing and mature sensory neurons and, further, have provided evidence consistent with a shift in neurotrophin responsiveness during the development of sensory neurons.
Ibogaine is a naturally occurring alkaloid that has been claimed to be effective in treating addiction to opioids and stimulants; a single dose is claimed to be effective for 6 months. Analogously, studies in rats have demonstrated prolonged (one or more days) effects of ibogaine on morphine and cocaine self-administration even though ibogaine is mostly eliminated from the body in several hours. These observations have suggested that a metabolite may mediate some of the effects of ibogaine. Recently, noribogaine was identified as a metabolite of ibogaine. Accordingly, the present study sought to determine, in rats, whether noribogaine had pharmacological effects mimicking those of ibogaine. Noribogaine (40 mg/kg) was found to decrease morphine and cocaine self-administration, reduce the locomotor stimulant effect of morphine, and decrease extracellular levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens and striatum. All of these effects were similar to effects previously observed with ibogaine (40 mg/kg); however, noribogaine did not induce any ibogaine-like tremors. The results suggest that noribogaine may be a mediator of ibogaine's putative anti-addictive effects.
Gene expression of mitochondrial DNA-encoded ND4 in brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and age-matched controls was measured using Northern blot. The level of ND4 message in temporal cortex of control subjects was higher than in motor cortex, whereas the level of ND4 gene expression in temporal cortex of AD brains was decreased compared with that in temporal cortex of controls. A control probe showed no difference in expression between the two areas of AD and control brains. These and previous data suggest that neurons vulnerable to AD express higher levels of enzymes of oxidative phosphorylation than do spared neurons, and that this difference may promote selective neuronal vulnerability of AD.
Young male rats were exposed two times for 5 min, to older male rats with an interval of 30 min in the anti-vasopressin serum experiments and with an interval of 120 min in the anti-oxytocin serum experiments. The time spent by the older rats with social investigation of the younger animal was scored during the two encounters. In placebo-treated animals the time spent on social investigation of the younger animal during the second encounter at 30 min is significantly shorter than during the first one (social recognition). However, intracerebroventricular or local application of anti-vasopressin serum in the dorsal or ventral hippocampus or in the dorsal septal area, but not in the n. olfactorius, results in similar periods of time spent for social investigation during the two encounters. Thus, endogenous vasopressin in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus and in the dorsal septal region plays a physiological role in social recognition/memory. In placebo-treated rats the time spent on social investigation of the younger animal during the second encounter at 120 min is similar to that during the first encounter. However, local administration of anti-oxytocin serum in the ventral hippocampus, but not in the dorsal hippocampus, nor in the n. olfactorius or the septal area, results in shorter investigation times during the second encounter. Thus, taken together the presence or local release of vasopressin and oxytocin in the ventral hippocampus and that of vasopressin (but not oxytocin) in the dorsal hippocampus and dorsal septal area are of physiological importance for social recognition.
The involvement of mesolimbic dopamine (DA) systems in motivational aspects of drug-taking behavior during initiation of drug self-administration was investigated using a recently developed behavioral paradigm. In separate experiments animals were allowed to self-administer cocaine or heroin (0.16 and 0.32 mg . kg-1 per inf) during 5 consecutive daily 3-h sessions. During a 15-min period preceding the last four self-administration sessions lever-press behavior was measured in absence of the drug as an index of the motivational aspects involved in drug-taking behavior. The effect of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion of the nucleus accumbens (NAC) on lever-press behavior before and during self-administration was measured. Destruction of DA terminals in the NAC did not affect initiation of heroin self-administration nor the lever-press behavior during the period preceding the self-administration sessions. In cocaine animals 6-OHDA lesion of the NAC decreased the total intake of cocaine during the self-administration sessions and impaired discriminative lever-responding for the drug, both during cocaine self-administration, and during preceding periods when no cocaine was available. It is concluded that DAergic systems in the NAC might be involved in the reinforcement and/or motivational processes underlying cocaine self-administration. The present findings, however, do not support the notion of a critical role of NAC DA in the motivational aspects of drug-taking behavior in general.
A variety of experimental evidence suggests that one function of dendritically released dopamine is the feedback modulation of dopamine neuron firing rate via stimulation of the somatodendritic autoreceptors located on these cells. Under these conditions, blockade of these receptors should result in an alteration in the firing rate of dopamine neurons. In order to test this prediction, we have examined whether haloperidol alters the electrophysiological activity of dopamine neurons recorded from nigral slices maintained in vitro. This preparation permits examination of the effects of haloperidol when the substantia nigra is isolated from long-loop afferent cell populations, and also facilitates the performance of intracellular recordings to allow the assessment of alterations in membrane properties that underlie any changes in firing rate. Addition of haloperidol to the media bathing nigral slices caused increases in the spontaneous firing rate of some dopamine neurons. It also caused depolarization of the membrane and increases in input resistance in a subset of dopamine neurons. However, this drug had no consistent effects on the delayed repolarization or the anomalous rectification that are characteristic of activity in these cells. Morphological assessment of dopamine neurons stained in the coronal sections used in these studies confirmed that the dendrites of dopamine neurons were largely intact in these slices. These results demonstrate that blockade of the somatodendritic autoreceptors located on dopamine neurons does cause alterations in the electrophysiological activity of these cells, substantiating the role of nigral dopamine release in the modulation of dopamine neuron activity.
The question of whether a differential distribution of vestibular afferent information to central nuclear neurons is present in pigeons was studied using neural tracer compounds. Discrete tracing of afferent fibers innervating the individual semicircular canal and otolith organs was produced by sectioning individual branches of the vestibular nerve that innervate the different receptor organs and applying crystals of horseradish peroxidase, or a horseradish peroxidase/cholera toxin mixture, or a biocytin compound for neuronal uptake and transport. Afferent fibers and their terminal distributions within the brainstem and cerebellum were visualized subsequently. Discrete areas in the pigeon central nervous system that receive primary vestibular input include the superior, dorsal lateral, ventral lateral, medial, descending, and tangential vestibular nuclei; the A and B groups; the intermediate, medial, and lateral cerebellar nuclei; and the nodulus, the uvula, and the paraflocculus. Generally, the vertical canal afferents projected heavily to medial regions in the superior and descending vestibular nuclei as well as the A group. Vertical canal projections to the medial and lateral vestibular nuclei were observed but were less prominent. Horizontal canal projections to the superior and descending vestibular nuclei were much more centrally located than those of the vertical canals. A more substantial projection to the medial and lateral vestibular nuclei was seen with horizontal canal afferents compared to vertical canal fibers. Afferents innervating the utricle and saccule terminated generally in the lateral regions of all vestibular nuclei in areas that were separate from the projections of the semicircular canals. In addition, utricular fibers projected to regions in the vestibular nuclei that overlapped with the horizontal semicircular canal terminal fields, whereas saccular afferents projected to regions that received vertical canal fiber terminations. Lagenar afferents projected throughout the cochlear nuclei, to the dorsolateral regions of the cerebellar nuclei, and to lateral regions of the superior, lateral, medial, and descending vestibular nuclei.

We have shown that in the central nervous system BN receptors are closely associated with 5-HT systems. On a subpopulation of dorsal raphe neurons, NMB receptors are able to depolarize cells by reducing gK+. In one of the target regions of the dorsal raphe 5-HT neurons, the SCN, we have also shown that neurons are excited by BN-related peptides. In the SCN, the GRP receptors excite neurons by two different mechanisms: closure of gK+ and opening of an unidentified cation conductance. Expression of human BN receptors from the brain in CHO cells or Xenopus oocytes shows a very similar pharmacological profile to that seen in the rat brain slice preparations. In the CHO cell line, following BN receptor activation, a major second-messenger path involves hydrolysis of PIP2 by phospholipases to yield IP3, which releases Ca2+ from intracellular stores. In the oocyte expression system, a similar second messenger pathway is clearly apparent, and Ca2+-sensitive gCl- represents the last phase in a cascade of events. The final phase of the mechanism of action in the artificial systems does not involve gK+, suggesting a different second messenger cascade to that in neurons. However, the involvement of phospholipases and their phospholipid products have not been excluded in neurons.


Olfactory signaling is initiated by interactions between odorants and olfactory receptors. We show that the C. elegans odr-10 gene is likely to encode a receptor for the odorant diacetyl. odr-10 mutants have a specific defect in chemotaxis to diacetyl, one of several odorants detected by the AWA olfactory neurons. odr-10 encodes a predicted seven transmembrane domain receptor; a green fluorescent protein-tagged Odr-10 protein is localized to the AWA sensory cilia. odr-10 expression is regulated by odr-7, a transcription factor implicated in AWA sensory specification. Expression of odr-10 from a heterologous promoter directs behavioral responses to diacetyl, but not to another odorant detected by the AWA neurons. These results provide functional evidence for a specific interaction between an olfactory receptor protein and its odorant ligand.
The present study investigated the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA glutamate receptor subtypes in peripheral pain transmission. Activation of NMDA, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) and kainate acid (KA) receptors in glabrous skin of the rat hindpaw resulted in mechanical allodynia and mechanical hyperalgesia. These agonist-induced pain behaviors were attenuated following peripheral injection of appropriate antagonists (MK-801 and CNQX). Thus, activation of NMDA, AMPA or KA receptors at the level of the peripheral nerve terminal can produce nociceptive behavior. These data suggest that topical application of glutamate receptor antagonists may be useful in treating pain disorders. Since all three receptor subtypes are involved in peripheral pain transmission, however, it will be necessary to antagonize multiple glutamate receptor subtypes to achieve effective pain relief.
Myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) has potent neurite outgrowth inhibitory activity in vitro. To assess the importance of MAG in the neurite outgrowth inhibitory activity in CNS myelin, we used an in vitro bioassay to characterize neurite growth on CNS myelin derived from mice carrying a null mutation of the MAG gene. Myelin proteins from MAG-deficient mice inhibited neurite outgrowth to a similar degree to the wild-type CNS myelin. These results suggest that CNS myelin molecules other than MAG exert strong inhibitory effects on the growth of neurites.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) exhibits neurotrophic properties on different types of neurones, including fetal motoneurones and embryonic neurones of sensory ganglia. We demonstrate that chronic injury to the adult rat sciatic nerve induces a rapid up-regulation of GDNF mRNA expression in Schwann cells proximal as well as distal to the injury site, and that expression of this mRNA remains at high levels for at least 5 months after injury. In addition, GDNF mRNA increases and remains high in satellite cells and Schwann cells of the affected L4/L5 DRGs. These findings suggest that GDNF is an important factor in the events that follow upon adult chronic primary sensory neurone injury, and possibly also after adult motoneurone axotomy.
The human rhabdomyosarcoma cell line TE671 expresses the foetal subtype of muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR). By transfecting TE671 cells with cDNA encoding the human muscle AChR epsilon subunit under the control of the cytomegalovirus promoter we have established a stable cell clone that, in addition, constitutively expresses the adult AChR subtype. Both subtypes are inserted into the plasma membrane and demonstrate their respective characteristic single channel properties. The level of expression of the adult AChR subtype is two- to three-fold higher than that of the foetal subtype. The new cell clone provides a relatively abundant source of human adult AChR for immunological and pharmacological investigations.
The recurrence of dopamine-immunoreactive (DAi) fibers and the effect of the adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH)-(4-9) analog ORG 2766 on this process were investigated 1, 4, 12 and 24 weeks after a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). DAi fibers were almost completely absent 1 week after the lesion. A gradual increase in DAi fibers throughout the NAc was observed, with subnormal values at 24 weeks. Treatment with ORG 2766 during the first week after the lesion resulted in more DAi fibers 4 weeks after the lesion as compared to placebo treatment, but not 12 and 24 weeks after the lesion. After 6-OHDA lesioning reinnervation of the NAc takes place and this process is transiently facilitated by ORG 2766.
Oxygen free radicals have been proposed to mediate amyloid peptide (beta-AP)-induced neurotoxicity. To test this hypothesis, we evaluated the effects of EUK-8, a synthetic catalytic superoxide and hydrogen peroxide scavenger, on neuronal injury produced by beta-AP in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. Cultures of equivalent postnatal day 35 (defined as mature) and 14 (defined as immature) were exposed to various concentrations of beta-AP (1-42 or 1-40) in the absence or presence of 25 microM EUK-8 for up to 72 hours. Neuronal injury was assessed by lactate dehydrogenase release and semiquantitative analysis of propidium iodide uptake at various times after the initiation of beta-AP exposure. Free radical production was inferred from the relative increase in dichlorofluorescein fluorescence, and the degree of lipid peroxidation was determined by assaying thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances. Treatment of mature cultures with beta-AP (50-250 microg/ml) in serum-free conditions resulted in a reproducible pattern of damage, causing a time-dependent increase in neuronal injury accompanied with formation of reactive oxygen species. However, immature cultures were entirely resistant to beta-AP-induced neurotoxicity and also demonstrated no dichlorofluorescein fluorescence or increased lipid peroxidation after beta-AP treatment. Moreover, mature slices exposed to beta-AP in the presence of 25 microM EUK-8 were significantly protected from beta-AP-induced neurotoxicity. EUK-8 also completely blocked beta-AP-induced free radical accumulation and lipid peroxidation. These results not only support a role for oxygen free radicals in beta-AP toxicity but also highlight the therapeutic potential of synthetic radical scavengers in Alzheimer disease.
Previous studies have reported a neuromodulatory effect of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on serotonin neurons in the central nervous system. In the present study, we examined the effects of local infusion of BDNF on the electrophysiological activity of serotonergic neurons in the rat dorsal raph nucleus with extracellular single unit recording in vivo. Compared with vehicle-infused rats, chronic administration of BDNF (10-14 days) caused serotonergic neurons to fire in a significantly less regular pattern, without altering the mean firing rate or other measures of electrical activity. These results suggest that the ability of similar infusions of BDNF to produce behavioral effects (i.e. analgesia and an antidepressant-like effect) associated with elevated serotonin turnover may be in part the result of more irregular firing patterns of dorsal raph neurons.
To explore the role of bcl-x in the regulation of cell death in the nervous system, we produced monoclonal antibodies against rat Bcl-xL protein, the major product of the rat bcl-x gene that inhibits apoptosis, and defined its distribution in rat neural tissues by immunochemical and immunohistochemical means. Western blotting of tissue homogenates identified the Bcl-x protein as two bands with molecular weights of about 29 and 31 kDa. The level of Bcl-x expression in the nervous system was high, being comparable to that in the hematolymphoid system, and higher in the fetal than in the adult brain. Subcellular fractionation studies localized Bcl-x to various subcellular compartments. In tissue culture, Bcl-x was produced by all the cell types examined, including neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and microglial cells. Immunohistochemistry revealed that Bcl-x immunoreactivity was more intense in the gray than in the white matter. In the fetal cerebral cortex, labeling was mostly confined to the neuronal perikarya, whereas in the more mature brain, the neuropil of the gray matter, as well as the glial cells in the white matter, was also stained.
Desensitization to serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT)-facilitated dopamine release in vivo develops following either continuous or repeated pulses of 5-HT. For instance, an initial 20 min pulse of 5-HT (10 microM) produced a 715 +/- 150% increase in basal dopamine, an effect which steadily declined over 5 subsequent fractions to 222 +/- 80%. Also, secondary pulses (s2) of 5-HT administered 40 min following the primary pulse (s1), elicited a 327 +/- 16% increase in dopamine levels, significantly decreased from the primary s1 pulse. Augmentation of either protein kinase A or protein kinase C systems attenuated 5-HT-facilitated dopamine release, suggesting a role for protein kinases in regulating the desensitization process.
Using transmission electron microscopy, we have identified a new type of afferent terminal structure in the crista ampullaris of the goldfish Carassius auratus. In addition to the bouton-type afferent terminals previously described in the ear of this species, the crista also contained enlarged afferent terminals that enveloped a portion of the basolateral hair cell membrane. The hair cell membrane was evaginated and protruded into the afferent terminal in a glove-and-finger configuration. The membranes of the two cells were regularly aligned in the protruded region of the contact and had a distinct symmetrical electron density. The electron-dense profiles of these contacts were easily identified and were present in every crista sampled. In some cases, efferent terminals synapsed onto the afferents at a point where the hair cell protruded into the terminal. The ultrastructural similarities of the goldfish crista afferents to calyx afferents found in amniotes (birds, reptiles, and mammals) are discussed. The results of the study support the hypothesis that structural variation in the vertebrate inner ear may have evolved much earlier in evolution than previously supposed.
Necdin is a protein encoded by neural differentiation-specific mRNA derived from embryonal carcinoma cells (P19). Necdin of mouse brain was characterized by Western blotting and silver-staining analysis by using affinity purified antibodies to 17 synthetic peptides of deduced C-terminal amino acids. Necdin exhibits a molecular mass of 51 kDa on SDS/PAGE, and is localized in the S1 and S2 nucleosomal fractions. Sonicated necdin is found in all fractions of Sephacryl S-300 gel filtration chromatography, with a peak at 700 kDa. Necdin is released on microsomal nuclease digestion, which is essential for electrophoretic migration on acetic acid/urea/Triton gels, suggesting that it could be a DNA-binding protein. Nucleosomal necdin shows two peaks at approx. 10 S and approx. 20 S on sucrose gradient centrifugation in the presence of 0.6 M NaCl, and a single peak in the presence of 2.0 M NaCl. Necdin forms a huge complex through chemical cross-linking with glutaraldehyde or dimethyl sulphate. The silver-staining intensity of the 51 kDa band corresponds to the decrease in the immuno-staining in a reagent concentration-dependent manner. Necdin binds tightly to a double-stranded DNA affinity chromatography column, and can be eluted from it with 2.0 M NaCl after washing with 0.6 M NaCl (approx. 100 ng per ml of gel). This purified necdin exhibits of pI of 9.1 on isoelectric focusing. The nucleosomal necdin complex (&gt;200 kDa) was adsorbed on an organomercurial agarose affinity chromatography column and was eluted with 10 mM DTT, revealing that necdin is possibly involved in the transactive nucleosomal complex. These data show that necdin is a nuclear basic DNA-binding protein that associates with other molecules to regulate transcriptionally active genes and nuclear function.
The activation of cultured Raw 264.7 murine macrophages with interferon gamma and lipopolysaccharide results in the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (i_NOS) and the subsequent production of nitric oxide. In the present study, the i-NOS expressed in these activated cells was characterized for possible post-translational protein modification by endogenous tyrosine protein kinases. Western-blot analysis using phosphotyrosine antibodies revealed that i-NOS was phosphorylated on tyrosine residues and that this was an early event coinciding with the appearance of newly synthesized i-NOS. A brief exposure of activated cells to vanadate, a tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, significantly increased the level of i-NOS tyrosine phosphorylation, suggesting that tyrosine phosphatases are dynamically involved in the regulation of this process. Vanadate treatment of activated cells also resulted in a rapid increase in enzyme activity, occurring within 5 min of exposure. Taken together, these results demonstrate that tyrosine kinases and phosphatases are involved in the post-translational modification of i-NOS and may potentially play a role in modulating the functional activity of the enzyme in macrophages.
Bcl-2 overexpression has been shown to be protective against apoptosis induced by a variety of mechanistically diverse chemotherapeutic drugs. Recently, oxygen radical species have been implicated in the process of apoptosis, and Bcl-2 has been proposed to exert its protective effect by altering the redox state of the cell. Unlike most other chemotherapeutic agents, naturally occurring enediynes are rendered more cytotoxic in the presence of a higher reducing potential, because as prodrugs, they require reduction for activation. We demonstrate herein that induction of Bcl-2 expression in PC12 cells potentiates the induction of apoptosis and differentiation by the enediyne neocarzinostatin. In contradistinction, Bcl-2 abrogates the induction of apoptosis and differentiation by the autoactivating enediyne, enediyne-5, and the non-enediyne chemotherapeutic agent, cisplatin. We further demonstrate that enediyne potentiation by Bcl-2 is related to an increase in cellular glutathione. The present studies suggest that enediynes that require reductive activation might be critically useful agents in the therapy of tumors such as neuroblastomas and estrogen-responsive breast cancers, the resistance of which is related to up-regulation of Bcl-2.
The long-term (trophic) influence of perivascular nerves on the endothelium was investigated by measuring changes in thrombin-stimulated release of the potent vasoconstrictor, endothelin, after selective chronic denervation. Rat pups were treated with either guanethidine or capsaicin to destroy sympathetic or sensory nerves, respectively. The abdominal aortas from the rats at three months of age (5 pooled per experiment) were incubated with 4U thrombin/ml in medium for 24 h at 37 degrees C, and the amount of endothelin released from the preparation determined by immunoassay. After neonatal sensory denervation there was a significant reduction in the thrombin-stimulated release of endothelin compared to the controls (0.012 +/ -0.012 (4) compared to 0.063 +/- 0.012 (6), pmol/cm2/24 h, p &lt; 0.02). There was no change in endothelin release after sympathetic denervation. In summary, sensory nerves play a trophic role in the expression of endothelin in endothelial cells of the intima.
Parafollicular (PF) cells secrete 5-hydroxytryptamine in response to increased extracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]e). This stimulus causes Cl- channels in PF secretory vesicles to open, leading to vesicle acidification. PF cells express a plasmalemmal heptahelical receptor (CaR) that binds Ca2+, Gd3+, and Ba2+. We now report that the CaR mediates vesicle acidification. Ca2+, Gd3+, and Ba2+ induced vesicle acidification, which was independent of channel-mediated Ca2+ entry. Agonist-induced vesicle acidification was blocked by pertussis toxin, inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol-phospholipase C, calmodulin, NO synthase, guanylyl cyclase, or protein kinase G. PF cells contained NO synthase immunoreactivity, and vesicles were acidified by NO donors and dibutyryl cGMP. [Ca2+]e, and Gd3+ mobilized thapsigargin-sensitive internal Ca2+ stores. [35S]G alpha i and [35S]G alpha q were immunoprecipitated from PF membranes incubated with agonists in the presence of [35S]adenosine 5'-O-(thiotriphosphate). Labeling of G alpha i but not G alpha q was antagonized by pertussis toxin. Vesicles acidified in response to activation of protein kinase C; however, protein kinase C inhibition blocked calcium channel- but not CaR-dependent acidification. We propose the following signal transduction pathway: CaR -&gt; Gi -&gt; phosphatidylinositol-phospholipase C -&gt; inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate -&gt; [Ca2+]i -&gt; Ca2+/calmodulin -&gt; NO synthase -&gt; NO -&gt; guanylyl cyclase -&gt; cGMP -&gt; protein kinase G -&gt; opens vesicular Cl- channel.
We have stably expressed cDNA for the rat brain Ca2+ sensing receptor in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Stimulation of phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis and arachidonic acid (AA) release displayed markedly cooperative responses to Ca2+ with Hill coefficients of 4-5. Both phosphatidylinositol and AA responses were not detected below a threshold of 1.5 mM Ca2+. Mg2+ behaved as a partial agonist with only half the maximal inositol phosphate and AA responses displayed by Ca2+ and with a more shallow concentration-response slope. The potency of Mg2+ in augmenting inositol phosphate and AA responses, in the presence of 1.5 mM Ca2+, implies that serum Mg2+ concentrations attained in clinical conditions will influence the Ca2+-sensing receptor.
To evaluate the relationship of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptor-mediated signal transduction and cellular energy dynamics, we have characterized effects of nucleotides on IP3 receptor (IP3R)-mediated calcium (Ca2+) flux in purified IP3 receptors reconstituted in lipid vesicles (IP3RV) and examined hypoxia-induced augmentation of intracellular Ca2+ in intact cells. Reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) increases IP3-mediated Ca2+ flux in IP3RV. This effect is highly specific for NADH. Hypoxia elicited by brief exposure of nerve growth factor-differentiated PC12 cells or cerebellar Purkinje cells to cyanide elicits rapid increased in internal [Ca2+], which derives from IP3-sensitive stores. Blockade of this effect by 2-deoxyglucose and inhibition of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase implicates enhanced glycolytic production of NADH in the Ca2+ stimulation. Internal [Ca2+] is markedly and specifically increased by direct intracellular injection of NADH, and this effect is blocked by heparin, further implicating IP3R stores. These findings indicate that direct regulation of IP3R by NADH is responsible for elevated cytoplasmic [Ca2+] occurring in the earliest phase of hypoxia. This link of IP3R activity with cellular energy dynamics may be relevant to both hypoxic damage and metabolic regulation of IP3 signaling processes.
G-protein-gated inward rectifier potassium (GIRK) channels are coupled to numerous neurotransmitter receptors in the brain and can play important roles in modulating neuronal function, depending on their localization in a given neuron. Site-directed antibodies to the extreme C terminus of GIRK1 (or KGA1), a recently cloned component of GIRK channels, have been used to determine the relative expression levels and distribution of the protein in different regions of the rat brain by immunoblot and immunohistochemical techniques. We report that the GIRK1 protein is expressed prominently in the olfactory bulb, hippocampus, dentate gyrus, neocortex, thalamus, cerebellar cortex, and several brain stem nuclei. In addition to the expected localization in somas and dendrites, where GIRK channels may mediate postsynaptic inhibition, GIRK1 proteins were also found in axons and their terminal fields, suggesting that GIRK channels can also modulate presynaptic events. Furthermore, the distribution of the protein to either somatodendritic or axonal-terminal regions of neurons varied in different brain regions, which would imply distinct functions of these channels in different neuronal populations. Particularly prominent staining of the cortical barrels of layer IV of the neocortex, and the absence of this staining with unilateral kainate lesions of the thalamus, suggest that the GIRK1 protein is expressed in thalamocortical nerve terminals in which GIRK channels may mediate the actions of mu opiate receptors.
Superconducting Quantum Interference Devices (SQUIDs) can be used to detect neuromagnetic fields evoked in the peripheral and central nervous system. Up to now, such measurements had to be based on SQUIDs with a low critical temperature (Tc) requiring liquid helium cooling. Recent improvements in high-Tc SQUID technology relying on liquid nitrogen cooling led to a significant reduction in the system's noise level. Hare, first high-Tc recordings of weak neuromagnetic fields are demonstrated. In particular, along the entire somatosensory afferent pathway including peripheral nerves, brachial plexus and primary somatosensory neocortex evoked neuromagnetic activities were detected using conventional recording parameters for bandwidth and number of averages. This opens up a wide perspective for cost-effective high-Tc magnetometry in clinical neuroscience.
Glutamate (Glu)-stimulated phosphatidylinositol (PI) metabolism in primary neuronal cultures was found to be modulated by acute and chronic treatment with two estrogenic compounds. 17 beta-Estradiol 3-benzoate (0.1 and 1 microM), when applied with Glu, significantly reduced Glu (40 microM)-stimulated PI metabolism by 20-36%, an effect not seen with 17 alpha-estradiol. The weak estrogen phenol red (20 microM), had no effect when added immediately before Glu stimulations. Two-week pretreatment with 17 beta-estradiol 3-benzoate (1 microM) resulted in a significant decrease in Glu-stimulated PI metabolism (10-100 microM). Chronic treatment with 20 microM phenol red, at a concentration commonly found in culture medium, resulted in parallel but not statistically significant effects to those observed with chronic estradiol treatment. Estrogenic compounds may modulate the excitatory responses of neurons by both genomic and non-genomic means.
Using an animal model of forebrain ischemia in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) by 3-h bilateral carotid occlusion, and various indices of the cerebral cholinergic system were assessed for periods up to 24 weeks. The lesions observed histologically in the hippocampus of SHR 2 weeks after ischemia were less severe than those in the frontal cortex. Marked elevation of acetylcholine concentration was transiently observed in the frontal cortex, hippocampus and thalamus + midbrain at 2 weeks, and in the striatum at 1-4 weeks after ischemia. Choline acetyltransferase activity remained unchanged in all regions throughout the experimental period except for a minimal decrease in the frontal cortex at 4 weeks. Choline esterase (ChE) activity was slightly decreased in the frontal cortex at 2-4 weeks after ischemia but recovered by 8 weeks. A decrease in the hippocampus was seen at 8 weeks. The B(max) for the M1-receptor was significantly reduced by 2 weeks in the frontal cortex and by 4 weeks in the hippocampus. Low B(max) values in both regions persisted through week 24. These delayed hippocampal changes in the ChE activity and M1-receptor in SHR were similar to those of the very much delayed changes in M1-receptor previously reported in the gerbil model for transient ischemia. In contrast, Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY), used as normotensive controls, exhibited no histological or biochemical changes for up to 24 weeks. The difference between SHR and WKY may depend on the more severe cerebral blood flow depletion during carotid ligation in the former. The chronic state of SHR after the transient ischemia may be a useful pathophysiological model for human cerebral infarctions with hypertension.
Teleost fish continue to grow throughout life, and their eyes enlarge correspondingly. Within the eye, the retina grows by stretching existing tissue and adding new cells. Cell addition occurs in two ways: First, all cell types except rod photoreceptors are added circumferentially at the edge of the eye where the retina meets the iris; second, rod photoreceptors are generated from a population of rod progenitor cells which divide throughout the outer nuclear layer (ONL). To determine the spatial distribution of rod progenitor cells across the teleost retina, we labeled dividing cells with an antibody to proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) throughout a 24 h period. We found a significantly higher density of dividing rod precursor cells at the nasal and temporal margins than in the central retina throughout the 24 h cycle. At night, the density of dividing cells is significantly greater at the nasal pole of the eye. The difference between cell division at the center and the margin was reduced at night when the density of cell division in the central retina increased significantly. Taken together, these data suggest that the eye grows asymmetrically, with more cells added at the nasal pole. Possible developmental causes and functional consequences of the reported distribution of cell divisions in time and location are presented.
Increases in the expression of immediate early genes have been shown to occur in the lumbar spinal cord dorsal horn after peripheral inflammation. Given that the pontine parabrachial nucleus has been implicated in nociceptive as well as antinociceptive processes and is reciprocally connected with the spinal cord dorsal horn, it seems likely that peripheral inflammation will cause alterations in immediate early gene expression in this nucleus. To test this hypothesis we examined cFos-like immunoreactivity in a rodent complete Freund's adjuvant-induced peripheral inflammatory model of persistent nociception. Unilateral hind paw injections of complete Freund's adjuvant produced inflammation, hyperalgesia of the affected limb, and alterations in open field behaviors. Immunocytochemical analysis demonstrated a bilateral increase in cFos-like immunoreactivity in the lateral and Kolliker-Fuse subdivisions of the parabrachial nucleus at 6 and 24 hours postinjection and an ipsilateral decrease below basal levels in the Kolliker-Fuse subdivision at 96 hours postinjection when compared to saline controls. Taken together, these results suggest that select parabrachial neurons are activated by noxious somatic inflammation. These active parabrachial neurons are likely to participate in ascending nociceptive and/or descending antinociceptive pathways.
NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors are excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the brain critical for synaptic plasticity and neuronal development. These receptors are Ca2+-permeable glutamate-gated ion channels whose physiological properties are regulated by intracellular Ca2+. We report here the purification of a 20 kDa protein identified as calmodulin that interacts with the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor. Calmodulin binding to the NR1 subunit is Ca2+ dependent and occurs with homomeric NR1 complexes, heteromeric NR1/NR2 subunit complexes, and NMDA receptors from brain. Furthermore, calmodulin binding to NR1 causes a 4-fold reduction in NMDA channel open probability. These results demonstrate that NMDA receptor function can be regulated by direct binding of calmodulin to the NR1 subunit, and suggest a possible mechanism for activity-dependent feedback inhibition and Ca2+-dependent inactivation of NMDA receptors.
Circadian behavioral rhythms in Drosophila depend on the appropriate regulation of at least two genes, period (per) and timeless (tim). Previous studies demonstrated that levels of PER and TIM RNA cycle with the same phase and that the PER and TIM proteins interact directly. Here we show the cyclic expression of TIM protein in adult heads and report that it lags behind peak levels of TIM RNA by several hours. We alsoshow that nuclear expression of TIM depends upon the expression of PER protein. Finally, we report that the expression of TIM, but not PER, is rapidly reduced by light, suggesting that TIM mediates light-induced resetting of the circadian clock. Since both PER and TIM RNA are unaffected by light treatment, the effects of light on TIM appear to be posttranscriptional.

Gabapentin (1-(aminomethyl)cyclohexane acetic acid; Neurontin) is a novel anticonvulsant drug, with a mechanism of action apparently dissimilar to that of other antiepileptic agents. We report here the isolation and characterization of a [3H]gabapentin-binding protein from pig cerebral cortex membranes. The detergent-solubilized binding protein was purified 1022-fold, in a six-step column-chromatographic procedure, with a yield of 3.9%. The purified protein had an apparent subunit Mr of 130,000, and was heavily glycosylated. The partial N-terminal amino acid sequence of the Mr 130,000 polypeptide, EPFPSAVTIK, was identical to that reported for the alpha2delta subunit of the L-type Ca2+ channel from rabbit skeletal muscle (Hamilton, S. L., Hawkes, M. J., Brush, K., Cook, R., Chang, R. J., and Smilowitz, H. M. (1989) Biochemistry 28, 7820-7828). High levels of [3H]gabapentin binding sites were found in membranes prepared from rat brain, heart and skeletal muscle. Binding of [3H]gabapentin to COS-7 cells transfected with alpha2delta cDNA was elevated &gt;10-fold over controls, consistent with the expression of alpha2 delta protein, as measured by Western blotting. Finally, purified L-type Ca2+ channel complexes were fractionated, under dissociating conditions, on an ion-exchange column; [3H]gabapentin binding activity closely followed the elution of the alpha2 delta subunit. [3H]Gabapentin is the first pharmacological agent described that interacts with an alpha2delta subunit of a voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel.
The notion &quot;excitable medium' appears to be a unifying concept for the description of a class of wave phenomena observed in many fields of research, from material science to medicine. The analysis of the spatio temporal organization in excitable media reveals that significantly different time series of local activity at various sites may have a common origin in cooperative dynamic excitation structures; rotating spirals. A spiral-shaped pattern emanates from a small organizing center, the core of the spiral. The motion of the spiral tip within the core determines the frequency and the wavelength of a spiral and the peculiar filter properties of an excitable medium allow for the formation of regular spirals even in the case of an highly irregular motion of the tip. Computer-assisted video techniques are recommended to measure these intimate neighbourhood of regular and irregular time-space structures in living matter.
Deflection of the mechanically sensitive hair bundle atop a hair cell opens transduction channels, some of which subsequently reclose during a Ca2+-dependent adaptation process. Myosin I in the hair bundle is thought to mediate this adaptation; in the bullfrog's hair cell, the relevant isozyme may be the 119-kDa amphibian myosin I beta. Because this molecule resembles other forms of myosin I, we hypothesized that calmodulin, a cytoplasmic receptor for Ca2+, regulates the ATPase activity of myosin. We identified an approximately 120-kDa calmodulin-binding protein that shares with hair-bundle myosin I the properties of being photolabeled by vanadate-trapped uridine nucleotides and immunoreactive with a monoclonal antibody raised against mammalian myosin I beta. To investigate the possibility that calmodulin mediates Ca2+-dependent adaptation, we inhibited calmodulin action and measured the results with two distinct assays. Calmodulin antagonists increased photolabeling of hair-bundle myosin I by nucleotides. In addition, when introduced into hair cells through recording electrodes, calmodulin antagonists abolished adaptation to sustained mechanical stimuli. Our evidence indicates that calmodulin binds to and controls the activity of hair-bundle myosin I, the putative adaptation motor.
The kinetics of amyloid fibril formation by beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) are typical of a nucleation-dependent polymerization mechanism. This type of mechanism suggests that the study of the interaction of Abeta with itself can provide some valuable insights into Alzheimer disease amyloidosis. Interaction of Abeta with itself was explored with the yeast two-hybrid system. Fusion proteins were created by linking the Abeta fragment to a LexA DNA-binding domain (bait) and also to a B42 transactivation domain (prey). Protein-protein interactions were measured by expression of these fusion proteins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae harboring lacZ (beta-galactosidase) and LEU2 (leucine utilization) genes under the control of LexA-dependent operators. This approach suggests that the Abeta molecule is capable of interacting with itself in vivo in the yeast cell nucleus. LexA protein fused to the Drosophila protein bicoid (LexA-bicoid) failed to interact with the B42 fragment fused to Abeta, indicating that the observed Abeta-Abeta interaction was specific. Specificity was further shown by the finding that no significant interaction was observed in yeast expressing LexA-Abeta bait when the B42 transactivation domain was fused to an Abeta fragment with Phe-Phe at residues 19 and 20 replaced by Thr-Thr (AbetaTT), a finding that is consistent with in vitro observations made by others. Moreover, when a peptide fragment bearing this substitution was mixed with native Abeta-(1-40), it inhibited formation of fibrils in vitro as examined by electron microscopy. The findings presented in this paper suggest that the two-hybrid system can be used to study the interaction of Abeta monomers and to define the peptide sequences that may be important in nucleation-dependent aggregation.
The present study investigates the nature of the galanin (GAL) increase and the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) decrease in the dorsal horn following peripheral nerve injury. These two peptides are known to colocalize in primary afferent terminals. Primates which had a tight ligation of the L7 spinal nerve demonstrated a variety of neuropathic symptoms 2 weeks postsurgery, including mechanical and cold allodynia, and heat hyperalgesia. Computer-enhanced image analyses of L7 spinal cord sections demonstrated an increase in GAL immunostaining and a decrease in CGRP immunostaining in the experimental compared to the control dorsal horn. Stereological analyses demonstrated that neither the numbers of GAL-labeled synapses nor the numbers or diameters of the dense-core vesicles in each GAL terminal changed after the lesion. However, there was a significant increase in the number of GAL-labeled glial cell bodies and processes on the experimental side, which accounted for the increased staining density observed at the light microscopic level. In contrast, the number of CGRP-labeled terminals was decreased on the experimental side, accounting for the decreased staining density seen at the light level. Thus, the decrease in number of CGRP synapses combined with the stable number of GAL synapses suggests that many GAL terminals no longer colocalize with CGRP after peripheral nerve lesion. This may indicate increased antinociceptive activity after nerve lesions. If so, there is less of a morphologic and more of a functional and chemical plasticity for GAL than may be presently envisioned. The possible role of GAL in neuropathic pain is discussed.
The distribution of vasopressin and oxytocin immunoreactive fibers was examined in the pontine parabrachial nucleus of the human brain using purified polyclonal antibodies. The results revealed a striking predominance of vasopressin in this brain region. No obvious density difference, either in vasopressin or in oxytocin innervation, was found between Alzheimer's disease patients and matched controls. The present study corroborates other reports that suggest that in Alzheimer's disease the vasopressin innervation in the caudal part of the human brain is not affected.
The effects of left and right prefrontal cortical dopamine (DA) depletion on circling behavior, stress-escape behavior and subcortical DA function were examined in rats exhibiting left or right turning biases. 6-Hydroxydopamine lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) caused significant DA depletions when assessed in separate studies at 3 days and 3-4 weeks. However, depletions were smaller at 3-4 weeks and there was a significant increase in DA concentration on the left side following right lesions. Significant increases in striatal DA content were observed following lesions of either side at 3-4 weeks, but not at 3 days. No changes in DA concentration were observed in the nucleus accumbens septi (NAS). Left circling rats significantly increased their circling behavior following right sided lesions and showed disrupted footshock-escape behavior following left sided lesions. Performance of the footshock-escape task exerted an effect on striatal and NAS DA utilization as indicated by the ratio of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) to DA. The effects of footshock on NAS DA utilization were greater following left PFC lesions as compared to the right lesion and sham conditions. These lesion effects were also greater in left- than in right-turning animals. The data indicate that an intrinsic asymmetry in brain DA systems interacts with left and right PFC lesions to differentially determine subcortical DA function and behaviors that it subserves.
Hippocampal granule cells do not normally express the axonal growth- and plasticity-associated protein F1/GAP-43 in the adult rat. Using three different methods that lead to hypersynchronous activity in limbic circuits, expression of F1/GAP-43 mRNA can be induced in granule cells which is followed by sprouting in mossy fibers, the axons of granule cells. F1/GAP-43 mRNA expression in granule cells was induced in the temporal, but not septal, hippocampus beginning at 12 hours after kainic acid (KA) subcutaneous injection (10 mg/kg). Beginning 2 days after KA treatment, mossy fiber sprouts restricted to the temporal hippocampus were observed in the supragranular layer. In the same animal we also observed that levels of protein F1/GAP-43 immunoreactivity in this layer apparently increased at this same 2 day time point and same ventral hippocampal location. F1/GAP-43 protein levels and mossy fiber sprouting showed an increase up to 10 days after KA treatment. Sprouting was at a maximum at 40 days, the longest time point studied. These events parallel axonal regeneration with one critical difference: granule cell axons are not damaged by kainate. The rapid onset of axonal growth in the adult is striking and occurs earlier than reported previously (2 days vs. 12 days). Such growth closely associated with elevated levels of protein F1/GAP-43 may occur as a result of a) reactive synaptogenesis caused by the availability of post-synaptic surface on granule cell dendrites at the supragranular layer, b) Hebbian co-activation of the post-synaptic granule cells and their presynaptic afferents, and c) loss of target-derived inhibitory growth factor.
Using choleratoxin/antitoxin immunohistochemistry, this study examined the effects of in vitro alcohol exposure on the morphology of cell plasma membranes in mixed fetal rat cortical cultures, and assessed the neuroprotective effects of exogenous monosialoganglioside (GM1). Gangliosides are involved in critical biological functions, including maintenance of membrane integrity. Plasma membranes are directly affected by alcohol exposure through multiple mechanisms. Results indicate that exposure to alcohol altered plasma membrane morphology as assessed by staining for the surface distribution of membrane GM1. Pretreatment with endogenous GM1 ameliorated the alcohol-induced alterations.
Over the last 30 years, acetaldehyde has been postulated to mediate various actions of ethanol on the brain. Experiments have studied ethanol consumption after acetaldehyde infusions into the brain, in rodents with high or low activities of hepatic and brain ethanol-metabolizing enzymes, and after treatment with drugs that alter the metabolism of acetaldehyde after ethanol ingestion. Evidence that acetaldehyde is involved in the actions of ethanol has been inconsistent because of the lack of knowledge of the brain acetaldehyde concentrations required to exert their effects, the lack of correlation between the activities of ethanol-metabolizing enzymes across strains of rodents and ethanol consumption, and the lack of specificity of drugs altering acetaldehyde metabolism. The formation of significant amounts of acetaldehyde the brain in vivo after ethanol ingestion and by what mechanism has not been clearly established, although catalase is a promising candidate. Future research needs to directly demonstrate in brain the formation of acetaldehyde in vivo, determine the concentrations in brain areas involved in ethanol consumption, and evaluate the possible actions of drugs other than an ability to block acetaldehyde metabolism.

Reactive astrogliosis is a prominent pathological feature of multiple sclerosis and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. It is characterized by hypertrophy of astrocytes with increased content of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP.) Studies of reactive astrocytes in acute experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis have been complicated by the observation that the diffuse increase in GFAP immunohistochemical staining at the onset of central nervous system inflammation does not parallel the gradual increase in GFAP content probably because tissue edema enhances GFAP immunostaining. To characterize changes in GFAP expression, we performed in situ hybridization at 3- to 7-day intervals during the course of acute murine experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. We found a biphasic course of GFAP expression: an early phase of astrocyte reaction surrounding perivascular inflammatory cuffs and submeningeal infiltrates at the onset of central nervous system inflammation and clinical disease and a later phase of increased GFAP mRNA expression in regions of demyelination during resolution of inflammation and clinical improvement. IP-10, a member of a family of proinflammatory chemoattractant cytokines called chemokines, was expressed by astrocytes in a similar distribution as those expressing increased GFAP mRNA in the early phase of inflammation but was no detected in astrocytes in the later phase of activation. These results indicate that location and function of reactive astrocytes may vary during the course of immune-mediated demyelination.
The influence of somatostatin and the potent mu-opiate receptor agonist etorphine on adrenal and autonomic responses mediated by trigeminal neurons was examined in chloralose-anesthetized cats. Microinjections of somatostatin (100 pmol) into laminae I-II of trigeminal subnucleus caudalis (Vc) evoked increases in the adrenal secretion of catecholamines and adrenal blood flow without affecting arterial pressure, heart rate, or plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone. Injections of somatostatin into laminae III-IV of Vc had no effect. Microinjections of etorphine (500 pmol) into laminae I-II of Vc had no effect, whereas injections into laminae III-IV caused small increases in total adrenal blood flow and peripheral concentrations of norepinephrine. To assess local effects of these drugs on peripheral trigeminal nociceptor-evoked autonomic responses, corneal stimulation was presented before and after topical application of somatostatin or etorphine on the dorsal brain stem surface. Somatostatin did not affect the adrenal and autonomic responses evoked by noxious thermal or chemical irritant stimulation of the cornea. Topical etorphine blocked completely the increase in adrenal blood flow, arterial pressure, and heart rate after noxious thermal stimulation of the cornea. These results suggest that somatostatin and mu-opiate receptor agonists act by different mechanisms at the level of the spinal trigeminal complex to affect adrenal and autonomic function.

Circular dichroism (CD) is an excellent method for analyzing the conformation of proteins and peptides in solution. This review compares various methods of obtaining structural information from CD data and the advantages and pitfalls of each technique are detailed. Among the topics discussed are how does the wave-length range of data acquisition affect the precision of the determination of protein conformation, how precisely must the protein concentration be determined for each method to give reliable answers, and what computer resources are necessary to use each method.
Although the Huntington's disease (HD) gene defect has been identified, the structure and function of the abnormal gene product and the pathogenetic mechanisms involved in producing death of selective neuronal populations are not understood. Indirect evidence from several sources indicates that a defect of energy metabolism and consequent excitotoxicity are involved in HD. Toxin models of HD may be induced by 3-nitropropionic acid or malonate, both inhibitors of succinate dehydrogenase, complex II of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. We analyzed mitochondrial respiratory chain function in the caudate nucleus (n = 10) and platelets (n = 11) from patients with HD. In the caudate nucleus, severe defects of complexes II and III (53-59%, p &lt; 0.0005) and a 32-38% (p &lt; 0.01) deficiency of complex IV activity were demonstrated. No deficiencies were found in platelet mitochondrial function. The mitochondrial defect identified in HD caudate parallels that induced by HD neurotoxin models and further supports the role of abnormal energy metabolism in HD. The relationship of the mitochondrial defect to the role of huntingtin is not known.
Prosody is that quality of speech that imparts meaning by changes in intonation, pitch, and stress. The right hemisphere (RH) appears to be dominant for affective prosody in adults, while the left hemisphere (LH) mediates the more linguistic aspects of nonverbal communication. Few similar studies have been reported of individuals who suffered early unilateral brain damage, when brain reorganization or plasticity might be expected to play a role in ameliorating the adverse effects of focal brain damage. In this study, comprehension and expression of affective and linguistic prosody were tested in subjects with documented unilateral brain damage of pre- or perinatal onset and in matched controls. Both RH- and LH-lesion groups demonstrated difficulty on tasks involving expression of affective prosody, and on tests of linguistic prosody, compared with controls. Only the RH-lesion group was impaired on an affective comprehension task. The results indicate that even after very early unilateral brain damage, prosodic deficits may be present. However, only for affective comprehension does the side of the lesion appear to determine such deficits. The findings suggest that during brain development there is not clear brain lateralization for prosody and there may be bilateral representation for these skills during early development. There may be limitations to the ability of the developing brain to reorganize after early injury.

1. We have provided evidence for a novel amine uptake process for which prazosin is a substrate in postsynaptic neurones, characterized by a paradoxical increase in accumulation of the radioligand when the concentration of the unlabelled drug is increased above 10(-7) M. This increase is due to activation of a proton-dependent, vacuolar type-ATPase-linked uptake process which is blocked by desipramine but is resistant to reserpine. We have now examined the effects of tricyclic antidepressants on this uptake system in a cell line derived from hypothalamic peptidergic neurones, known to be innervated by noradrenergic nerve terminals in vivo. 2. [3H]-imipramine bound to the cells and was displaced by unlabelled imipramine, desipramine, amitriptyline and nortriptyline. The data fitted a single binding site model. This is the first demonstration of antidepressant binding sites in postsynaptic neurones. 3. There was no increase in the binding of [3H]-imipramine at high concentrations of unlabelled imipramine, suggesting that antidepressants inhibit uptake but are not themselves accumulated by peptidergic gonadotrophin releasing hormone neurones. 4. Accumulation of prazosin was competitively inhibited by antidepressants. Tertiary amines were slightly more potent than secondary amines and the presence of a nitrogen atom in the heterocyclic ring enhanced blocking activity. 5. The affinities of the antidepressants for the uptake process are within the range of plasma concentrations that are observed during therapeutic use of these compounds. Since it is likely that this uptake process has a physiological function, its inhibition by antidepressants may provide a new avenue for investigating the mechanism of action of these compounds.
Alteration in dopamine (DA) and/or cholecystokinin (CCK) transmission in the CNS may be of relevance for schizophrenia. Previous findings in striatal membranes give indications of a modulation of DA D2 receptor affinity by CCKB receptor activation. In the present study receptor binding studies were performed in a mouse fibroblast cell line (L-hD2l/CCK), expressing both human D2 receptors (long form, D2L) and human CCKB receptors, and binding sites for [3H]CCK-8S (sulfated CCK octapeptide), the D2 agonist [3H]NPA and the D2 antagonist [3H]raclopride were found and characterized in saturation and competition experiments. 1 nM of CCK-8 caused a significant 38% increase in the KD value of the D2 agonist [3H]NPA binding sites in the L-hD2l/CCK cell membranes. This change was blocked by the CCKB receptor antagonist PD 134308 (50 nM). Furthermore, 1 nM of CCK-8 increased the KD value of the D2 antagonist [3H]raclopride binding sites by 34% (P &lt; 0.05) in the L-hD2l/CCK cell membranes. Control cells (L-hD2l cells) expressing D2L receptors showed no specific [3H]CCK-8S binding sites and no modulation by CCK-8 of the D2L receptors. These findings indicate a modulation of the D2L receptor affinity by activation of the CCKB receptor also when they are coexpressed in a fibroblast cell line. One possible explanation of these data may include a receptor-receptor interaction between the CCKB and D2L receptors.
Spatio-temporal aspects of Ca2+ signaling in melanotrope cells of Xenopus laevis have been studied with confocal laser-scanning microscopy. In the whole-frame scanning mode, two major intracellular Ca2+ compartments, the cytoplasm and the nucleus, were visualized. The basal [Ca2+] in the nucleus appeared to be lower than that in the cytoplasm and Ca2+ oscillations seemed to arise synchronously in both compartments. The N-type channel blocker omega-conotoxin eliminated oscillations in both regions, indicating a strong coupling between the two compartments with respect to Ca2+ dynamics. Line-scanning mode, which gives higher time resolution, revealed that the rise phase of a Ca2+ oscillation is not a continuous process but consists of 3 or 4 discrete steps. Each step can be seen as a Ca(2+)-wave starting at the cell membrane and going through the cytoplasm at a speed of 33.3 +/- 4.3 microns/s. Before the Ca(2+)-wave enters the nucleus, a delay of 120.0 +/- 24.1 ms occurred. In the nucleus, the speed of a wave was 80.0 +/- 3.0 microns/s. Treatment with the Ca(2+)-ATPase inhibitor thapsigargin (1 MicroM) almost completely eliminated the apparent difference in the basal [Ca2+] in the cytoplasm and the nucleus, reduced the delay of a Ca(2+)-wave before entering the nucleus to 79.8 +/- 8.7 ms, and diminished the nuclear wave speed to 35.0 +/- 4.9 microns/s. These results indicate that a cytoplasmic thapsigargin-sensitive ATPase near the nuclear envelope is involved in buffering Ca2+ before the Ca2+ wave enters the nucleus. After sensitizing IP3 receptors by thimerosal (10 microM) the speed of the cytoplasmic Ca(2+)-wave was increased to 70.3 +/- 3.6 microns/s, suggesting that IP3 receptors may be involved in the propagation of the cytoplasmic Ca2+ wave. Our results indicate that in melanotropes the generation and propagation of Ca2+ oscillations is a complex event involving influx of Ca2+ through N-type Ca2+ channels, propagation of the cytoplasmic Ca2+ wave through mobilization of intracellular stores and a regulated Ca2+ entry into the nucleus. We propose that Ca(2+)-binding proteins may act as a Ca2+ store for propagation of the wave in the nucleus.
The distribution of an opioid peptide related to YGGFMRF was determined in the CNS and other organs of the pond snail, Lymnaea stagnalis, by RIA and immunocytochemistry. RIA revealed the highest levels in the CNS (1 pmol/organ) and penis (400 fmol/organ). There were also significant levels in the haemolymph, most of which was not associated with haemocytes (580 fmol/ml). Both serial section and whole-mount immunocytochemistry of the CNS revealed immunoreactive cells in every ganglion with the majority in the cerebral and pedal ganglia. In the pedal ganglia some of the immunoreactive cells were close to the cells of the A-cluster, which are known to respond to opioids, and could innervate them. In the cerebral ganglia the immunoreactive cells included a group of neurosecretory cells, the caudo dorsal cells (CDCs) and the terminals of these cells in the cerebral commissure were also stained. The CDCs secrete peptides into the haemolymph and so could be the source of the YGGFMRF immunoreactivity. Immunoreactivity (including the CDCs) was observed in locations that correspond to those reported for other fragments of proenkephalin, such as Met- and Leu-enkephalin, suggesting that they may share a common precursor, a Lymnaea proenkephalin. A map of the 358 YGGFMRF-immunoreactive cells in the CNS is presented, many of which have not been previously identified.
The ultrastructural distribution of nitric oxide synthase (neuronal isoform, type I) and endothelin immunoreactivity was examined in the developing and ageing male Wistar rat pulmonary artery and vein. This study demonstrates that from birth to old age (24 months) nitric oxide synthase and endothelin are localized within subpopulations of endothelial cells in the pulmonary vasculature. In the pulmonary artery and vein of newborn rats, and pulmonary vein of 24-month-old rats, positive labelling for nitric oxide synthase was also observed in the vascular smooth muscle. During development and ageing there were ultrastructural and immunocytochemical alterations in the intima of the pulmonary artery and vein. In older animals, damaged endothelial cells were seen alongside healthy-appearing cells, rich in cytoplasmic vesicles and endoplasmic reticulum. In contrast to damaged cells, the healthy-appearing endothelial cells displayed positive cytoplasmic labelling for nitric oxide synthase or endothelin. These immunopositive cells also appeared in the altered regions of the vessels where substantial enlargement of subendothelial extracellular matrix and the presence of various forms of degenerating macrophages and large bundles of collagen fibres were evident. Damage to the pulmonary artery was particularly evident at the ages of 12 and 24 months; various forms of macrophages, some of which displayed positive labelling for nitric oxide synthase and endothelin, were present in the altered intimal subendothelial zone. In conclusion, this study on the pulmonary vasculature suggests that endothelin and NOS in endothelial cells play a role in the local control of vascular tone throughout the lifespan of rats, even in older animals when there is intimal thickening and some endothelial damage. NOS and endothelin was also seen in smooth muscle and macrophages at certain stages in postnatal development and ageing.
This study reports our findings from 22 patients (ages ranging from 42 to 73 yr; mean = 55.2) with recalcitrant idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) who received implants of fetal ventral mesencephalic tissue using an MRI-guided stereotactic procedure and who have been followed for at least 6 mo postoperatively, employing the guidelines established by the Core Assessment Program for Intracerebral Transplantations. Evaluations were videotaped and were performed both on and off levodopa medications. To date, we have seven patients with 24 mo, three with 18 mo, three with 12 mo, and nine with 6 mo post-surgical assessments. Comparing surgical outcomes to levels prior to fetal transplants we found: 1) mean levodopa levels were reduced 46% at 6 mo, 12% at 12 mo, 20% at 18 mo, and 54% at 24 mo; 2) Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) scores with patients on levodopa were improved by an average of 38% (6 mo), 50.2% (12 mo), 69.3% (18 mo), and 73.9% (24 mo), while off medication scores showed reductions ranging from 24.7% at 6 mo to 55.1% at 24 mo. Other measures, including Hoehn-Yahr staging, Activities of Daily Living, and dyskinesia rating scales, were also significantly improved following fetal transplants. Timed motor tasks (finger dexterity, supination-pronation, foot tapping, and Stand-Walk-Sit) performance also demonstrated highly significant improvements. Patient's self-rating scores indicated that the patients typically perceived substantial improvements in their condition. However, substantial variability in the improvements following surgery still persists and range from nominal improvements in performance to significant changes that can be classified as altering the overall lifestyle of the patients. To date, 4 of the 22 subjects were considered by the physicians to be nonresponders; that is, there were no clinically relevant improvements in these patients' conditions.
Neuronal and axonal responses to neurotrophic factors in the developing spinal cord have been relatively well characterized, but little is known about adult spinal responses to neurotrophic factors. We genetically modified primary rat fibroblasts to produce either nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), or basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), then grafted these neurotrophic factor-secreting cells into the central gray matter of the spinal cord in adult rats. Spinal cord lesions were not made prior to grafting. From 2 wk to 6 mo later, sensory neurites of dorsal root origin extensively penetrated NGF-, NT-3-, and bFGF-producing grafts, whereas BDNF-secreting grafts elicited no growth responses. Putative noradrenergic neurites also penetrated NGF-secreting cell grafts. Local motor and corticospinal motor axons did not penetrate any of the neurotrophic factor-secreting grafts. These results indicate that unlesioned or minimally lesioned adult spinal cord sensory and putative noradrenergic populations retain significant neurotrophic factor responsiveness, whereas motor neurites are comparatively resistant even to those neurotrophic factors to which they exhibit survival dependence during development. Grafts of genetically modified cells can be a useful tool for characterizing neurotrophic factor responsiveness in the adult spinal cord and designing strategies to promote axonal regeneration after injury.
Cholinergic innervation of the cerebral neocortex arises from the basal forebrain and projects to all cortical regions. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE), the enzyme responsible for deactivating acetylcholine, is found within both cholinergic axons arising from the basal forebrain and a subgroup of pyramidal cells in layers III and V of the cerebral cortex. This pattern of staining varies with cortical location and may contribute uniquely to cortical microcircuitry within functionally distinct regions. To explore this issue further, we examined the pattern of AChE staining within auditory, auditory association, and putative language regions of whole, postmortem human brains. The density and distribution of acetylcholine-containing axons and pyramidal cells vary systematically as a function of auditory processing level. Within primary auditory regions AChE-containing axons are dense and pyramidal cells are largely absent. Adjacent cortical regions show a decrease in the density of AChE-containing axons and an increase in AChE-containing pyramidal cells. The posterior auditory and language regions contain a relatively high density of AChE-containing pyramidal cells and AChE-containing axons. Although right and left posterior temporal regions are functionally asymmetrical, there is no apparent asymmetry in the general pattern of AChE staining between homologous regions of the two hemispheres. Thus, the pattern of AChE staining covaries with processing level in the hierarchy of auditory cortical regions, but does not vary between the functionally distinct right and left posterior regions. An asymmetry in the size of layer III AChE-rich pyramidal cells was present within a number of cortical regions. Large AChE-rich pyramidal cells of layer III were consistently greater in size in the left hemisphere as compared to the right. Asymmetry in layer III pyramidal cell size was not restricted to language-associated regions, and could potentially have a variety of etiologies including structural, connectional, and activational differences between the left and right hemisphere.
In gross anatomical terms, the hippocampal archicortex can be conceived as an &quot;appendage' of the large neocortex. In contrast to neocortical areas, the main output targets of the hippocampus are the same as its main inputs (i.e., the entorhinal cortex). Highly processed information about the external world (the content) reaches the hippocampus via the entorhinal cortex, whereas information about the &quot;internal world' (the context) is conveyed by the subcortical inputs. Removal of the context makes the content illegible, as demonstrated by the observation that the behavioral impairment following surgical removal of hippocampopetal subcortical inputs is as devastating as removing the hippocampus itself. From its strategic anatomical position and input-output connections, it may be suggested that the main function of the hippocampal formation is to modify its inputs by feeding back a processed &quot;reafferent copy' to the neocortex. I hypothesize that neocortico-hippocampal transfer of information and the modification process in neocortical circuitries by the hippocampal output take place in a temporally discontinuous manner and might be delayed by minutes, hours, or days. Acquisition of information may happen very fast during the activated state of the hippocampus associated with theta/gamma oscillations. Intrahippocampal consolidation and the hippocampal-neocortical transfer of the stored representations, on the other hand, is protracted and carried by discrete quanta of cooperative neuronal bursts during slow wave sleep.
We report 2 patients with acute symmetrical axonal motor and sensory polyneuropathy associated with vasculitis. The clinical presentation in each case was not that of a mononeuritis multiplex. Serial electrophysiological studies in 1 of the patients documented the development of confluent axonal degeneration involving several motor and sensory territories over the same period of time. In both patients the diagnosis of necrotizing vasculitis was established by peripheral nerve biopsy and recovery followed treatment with prednisone and cyclophosphamide. Biopsy of an involved nerve should be routinely sought in unexplained acute axonal polyneuropathies.

A previous report demonstrated the presence of the newly discovered opiate alkaloid selective and opioid peptide insensitive mu3 receptor in ganglia of several invertebrate- and one vertebrate species as well as in microglial cells that had egressed from these ganglia after their maintenance in culture medium for several days. In the present study carried out in two representatives of invertebrates, the binding densities of this receptor determined in intact ganglia were compared with those in ganglia depleted of microglial cells. The aim was to ascertain whether the differences in binding capacity recorded in those two groups of ganglia might give an indication of the possible presence of this opiate receptor in nonmicroglial components of the nervous tissue, i.e., neurons. Within a period of 72 h of incubation, the gradual reduction in binding density had reached a plateau, in accordance with the termination of the egress of microglia. The fact that at least two thirds of the binding capacity of mu3 receptors were retained by the ganglia strongly suggests that part of this capacity may be attributed to neurons. This view is supported by additional data, in particular the demonstration of endogenous morphine in nervous tissue and its localization within distinct neurons.

This study reports a patient who manifested optic aphasia, tactile aphasia, optic apraxia, and tactile apraxia following an operation for epidural left parietal haematoma. He could neither name nor pantomime the use of objects presented visually or tactually, but correctly performed semantic association tasks, thus demonstrating preserved recognition. He could name and pantomime the use of auditorily presented objects. Experimental results disproved that pantomime disorders were secondary to naming disorders, and suggested that modality specific aphasia and modality specific apraxia are independent clinical syndromes. CT scans showed injury to the posterior callosal radiations, the white matter of the angular gyrus, and the medial portion of the occipital lobe in the left hemisphere. We suggest that modality specific aphasia and modality specific apraxia can be explained by assuming a common semantic memory store.
Cek8 and low affinity NGF receptor (LNGFR) are expressed at high levels on the chick spinal motoneurons of the brachial and lumbar segments from embryonic day (E) 5 to E7, but weakly on the motoneurons of the non-limb-innervating segments. We determined by means of heterotopic neural tube transplantation, that the expression of these molecules was already intrinsically determined at E2. We used these spatiotemporal specific molecules as markers of motoneuron subpopulations. To analyze how motoneurons acquire regional specification along the anterior-posterior (A-P) axis and in the transverse plane, we observed the expression of these molecules on ectopic motoneurons induced by implanting a supernumerary notochord or floor plate at E2. The ectopic motoneurons induced by the graft obtained from either the thoracic or lumbar segments had the same expression profile as the normal motoneurons at each A-P level. These findings suggest that regional specification of motoneurons, at least of Cek8 and LNGFR expression, is independent of the notochord and the floor plate and that the whole neural tube appears to be committed to differentiate into the motoneuron subtypes along the A-P axis at the operative stages.
Evoked potentials can be recorded from the scalp after stimulation of the esophagus by balloon distension. The purpose of this study was to estimate the number and localization of sources contributing to the esophageal evoked potential (EEP). The EEP was recorded from 32 scalp electrodes in 5 healthy subjects. Spatio-temporal dipole modeling was performed in the time interval from 185 msec to 525 msec after stimulation (mean values). The EEP was best explained by the combined activity of 1 dipole located relatively high in the midline and 2 lateral dipoles. Given the anatomical projection of esophageal sensory fibers and the location of these dipoles the sources were probably located in the cingulate gyri and insular cortex. There was no evidence that sources in the lower brain-stem contributed to the scalp recorded EEP.
The usefulness of felbamate (FBM) levels in managing epilepsy patients has not been determined. The purpose of the present study was to determine if FBM levels obtained at routine office visits correlated with side effects reported by patients. We determined FBM levels by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) of 46 epilepsy patient plasma specimens (41 patients) and assessed medication toxicity and seizure frequency by a questionnaire. Thirty-six patients were treated with other antiepileptic drugs (AEDs); concomitant AED levels not in ranges believed to cause toxicity. FBM levels ranged from 9 to 134 microgram/ml, and were divided into three groups for analysis, resulting in low-range (9-36 microgram/ml), midrange (37-54 microgram/ml), and high-level (44-134 microgram/ml) groups. Anorexia and complaints of severe side effects were reported significantly more often in the high-level group as compared with the low- and midrange groups. Significantly more patients in the high-level group (10/13) reported decreased seizure frequency, as compared with 12 of 30 patients in the low- and midrange groups combined. FBM levels correlated linearly with doses overall, but most closely in FBM monotherapy patients.
Measurements of benzodiazepine (BZD) receptor density with positron emission tomography (PET) are a promising method of identifying and localizing epileptogenic regions. We investigated whether the pattern of BZD receptor changes depends on seizure frequency, studying 19 patients with matching seizure semiology but different rates of seizure occurrence, using [11C]flumazenil as the ligand. All patients had partial epilepsy and normal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain. The visually determined PET focus, characterized by reduced BZD receptor density, corresponded to the epileptogenic focus/seizure onset region in all patients. The degree of BZD receptor reduction showed a positive correlation with seizure frequency. Patients with daily seizures differed from those with fewer seizures in two aspects: (a) the degree and extent of BZD receptor reduction was more pronounced, and (b) BZD receptors were also reduced in the primary projection areas of the focus. Flumazenil-PET reliably identifies epileptogenic brain regions in patients with partial seizures. In addition, flumazenil-PET can distinguish patients with frequent seizures. The method therefore is not only suitable for noninvasive localization of the seizure focus, but also may provide a biochemical marker of epileptogenicity.
Although petit mal epilepsy is believed to arise from the thalamocortical system, it has been suggested recently that high-voltage spike-and-wave activity (HVS) in mutant mice can cause structural reorganization in the hippocampus, similar to that seen in temporal lobe epilepsy. We tested this assumption in rat strains with low and high incidence of HVS. No relationship was found between mossy fiber sprouting and HVS incidence. Hippocampal neurons were not driven by HVS. These findings suggest that petit mal seizures do not invade the hippocampus and are not causally related to sprouting of the mossy fibers.
Several studies have indicated that a decrease in availability and/or responsiveness to neurotrophin(s) may be of importance in ageing and disease-related neurodegeneration. Using in situ hybridization we have studied the mRNA expression of the full-length neurotrophin receptors TrkB and TrkC in spinal cord motoneurons of aged rats (30 months old) with symptoms of hindlimb incapacity and in young adult rats (2-3 months old). The labelling intensity for TrkB of the individual cell profile was decreased by 25% (P &lt; 0.001) in both the cervical and lumbar motor nuclei of aged rats. In thoracic motoneurons of aged and young adult rats the difference in expression of TrkB mRNA was smaller (down by 15%; P &lt; 0.05). The labelling for TrkC mRNA was much weaker than that for TrkB in both aged and young adult rats, but TrkC mRNA expression also seemed to decrease. Comparison of the different motor nuclei along the spinal cord axis revealed that the motoneurons of the L6/S1 nuclei showed the strongest hybridization signal for the two Trk receptors in both aged and young adult rats. The possibility that a decrease in TrkB mRNA may contribute to age-related motor disturbances is discussed.

Our purpose was to study central fatigue and its dependence on peripheral reflex inhibition during a sustained submaximal contraction of the triceps surae. In 11 healthy subjects, superimposed twitches, surface electromyograms (EMG) from the medial head of the gastrocnemius (MG) and soleus (SOL) muscles, maximal compound motor action potentials (M(max)), tracking error and tremor were recorded during sustained fatiguing contractions at a torque level corresponding to 30% of maximal voluntary contraction (MVC). When the endurance limit (401 +/- 91 s) of the voluntary contraction (VC-I) was reached, the triceps surae could be electrically stimulated to the same torque level for an additional 1 min in 10 of the 11 subjects. These subjects were then able to continue the contraction voluntarily (voluntary contraction II, VC-II) for another 85 +/- 48 s. At the endurance limit of VC-I, the superimposed twitch was larger than during the unfatigued MVC, while there was no significant difference between the twitch at the endurance limit of VC-II and MVC. The EMG amplitude of both MG and SOL at the endurance limit of VC-I was significantly less than that during the MVC. While the EMG amplitude of MG increased further during VC-II, SOL EMG remained unchanged, neither muscle reaching their unfatigued MVC values. This difference was diminished for SOL by taking into account its decrease in M(max) found during VC-II, and relative EMG levels approached their MVC values. These results clearly indicate that a higher voluntary muscle activation was achievable after 1 min of electrical muscle stimulation, which continued metabolic stress and contractile fatigue processes but allowed for supraspinal, muscle spindle and/or motoneuronal recovery. It is concluded that peripheral reflex inhibition of alpha-motoneurons via small-diameter muscle afferents is of minor significance for the development of the central fatigue that was found to occur during the first voluntary contraction.
In urethane-anesthetized rats, electrical 100-Hz stimulation of the basal amygdala changed neocortical electrical activity from 6-Hz or less large-amplitude, irregular slow activity to low-voltage fast activity (LVFA) including frequencies of above 10 Hz. A similar activating effect was seen in the hippocampus, where amygdala stimulation induced the appearance of rhythmical slow activity in the 2- to 6-Hz range. This activation of neocortical and hippocampal activity by amygdala stimulation was blocked by the cholinergic-muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (0.5-5.0 mg/kg i.p.), but not by the peripheral antagonist methylscopolamine, in a concentration-dependent manner. In contrast, a blockade of ascending inputs from the midbrain to the neocortex by treatment with the serotonin-depletor p-chlorophenylalanine or cauterization of the rostral midbrain did not block neocortical LVFA to amygdala stimulation, even though the lesions abolished all LVFA to strong noxious stimuli such as tail pinches. Unilateral infusions of the local anesthetic lidocaine (1%) into the basal forebrain selectively blocked LVFA in the neocortex ipsilateral to the infusion. However, intracerebral or systemic administration of various excitatory amino acid antagonists (2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, kynurenic acid, NPC 12626) was not effective in blocking LVFA to amygdala stimulation. An input from the amygdala to the basal forebrain cholinergic system appears to be one of multiple systems involved in the cholinergic activation of neocortical and hippocampal activity. Further, basal forebrain-cholinergic inputs to the cerebrum alone are sufficient to activate the electrocorticogram, as they sustain activation even in the absence of inputs from the mesencephalon.
Smooth pursuit eye movements were studied in monkeys tracking target spots that moved two-dimensionally. Complex target trajectories were created by applying either two or three sinusoids to horizontal and vertical axes in various combinations. The chance of observing predictable performance was increased by repeated training on each trajectory. Data analyses were based upon repeated presentations of each trajectory within sessions and on successive days. We wished to determine how accurately monkeys could pursue targets moving along these trajectories and to observe interactions among frequency components. At intermediate frequencies, tracking performance was smooth and consistent during repeated presentations with saccadic corrections that were well integrated with smooth pursuit. The mean gain for eight different sum-of-sines trajectories was 0.83 and the mean magnitude (absolute value) of the phase error was 6 degrees. In light of the long delays that have been associated with the processing of visual information, these values indicate that the monkeys were pursuing predictively. Five factors influenced predictive pursuit performance: (1) there was a decline in performance with increasing frequency; (2) horizontal pursuit was better than vertical pursuit; (3) high-frequency components were tracked with higher gains and phase lags, while lower-frequency components were tracked with lower gains and phase leads; (4) the gain of sinusoidal pursuit was always reduced when a second sinusoid was applied to the same axis or, to a lessor extent, when a second sinusoid of higher frequency was applied to the orthogonal axis; (5) the phase of sinusoidal pursuit shifted from a phase lag to a phase lead when combined with a second sinusoid of higher frequency, but was not affected by the addition of a lower-frequency sinusoid. Findings 1 and 2 confirm, in monkeys, results reported for humans, and 3 extends to monkeys and to two-dimensional pursuit results based upon human subjects. All of these findings demonstrate that complex predictive tracking is controlled by a nonlinear and nonhomogeneous system that uses predictive strategies in concert with feedback control to generate good pursuit.
Exogenous basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) stimulates proliferation of non-neuronal retinal cells in vivo. To help understand how this proliferative effect is mediated, we followed the fate of biotinylated bFGF after injection into the vitreous of normal rabbit eyes. The retinal distributions, binding, and processing of biotinylated bFGF (bFGF-biotin) was examined from 2 hr to 7 days after intravitreal injection using laser scanning confocal microscopy, electron microscopy and Western blot analysis. At 2 hr, bFGF-biotin was detected throughout the extracellular space and on retinal basement membranes. At 6 hr, discrete punctate material first appeared within the cytoplasm of Mller cells, astrocytes, endothelial cells, retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells, and ganglion cells. Labeling was also present in the invaginations of the photoreceptor synaptic terminals at this time. This general pattern persisted up to 4 days after injection but was greatly attenuated by post-injection day 7. Labeling in the inner retina decreased progressively over the seven days; whereas labeling in the outer retina, primarily within the RPE, increased at 4 days post-injection and then gradually decreased to nearly undetectable levels by 7 days. Western analysis of retinal protein homogenates following injection showed that an 18 kDa component representing intact bFGF, can be identified up to 1 week following injection. This component, as well as a 15 and 9 kDa biotinylated fragment, showed a progressive reduction during the one week post-injection period. Cross-linking experiments demonstrated that bFGF-biotin binds to three putative receptors with approximate molecular weights of 54, 62, and 110 kDa. These data are consistent with binding of exogenous bFGF to: (a) low affinity bFGF receptors associated with retinal basement membranes; (b) invaginations at the base of photoreceptor synapses; and (c) putative high affinity bFGF receptors on the plasma membranes of glial cells, endothelial cells, RPE cells and ganglion cells. bFGF-biotin apparently binds to, and is then internalized by, the same non-neuronal cell types that are stimulated to proliferate following retinal injuries such as detachment.
The conditions under which beta-amyloid (Abeta) is toxic to primary rat hippocampal neurons were investigated. Synthetic Abeta(1-42) peptide was neurotoxic following &quot;aging&quot; for 7 to 14 days at 37 degrees C in modified Eagle's media. Neurotoxicity included decreases in neurite length, cell number, and metabolic state. In contrast, aging Abeta(1-42) in the presence of the media supplement B27 inhibited Abeta (1-42) induced neurotoxicity. Differences in the aggregation state of the two preparations did not account for differences in the biological activities elicited by each peptide. Since components of B27 include antioxidants as well as other agents that provide protection against oxidative damage, we suggest that free radicals may be responsible, in part, for the toxicity that occurs following the aging of the peptide.
Huntington's disease (HD) in an inherited neurodegenerative disorder in which the striatum undergoes marked atrophic changes. Patients with HD typically have impaired cognitive function, including deficient visuospatial skills, lack of cognitive flexibility and poor recall of memories. The relationship between these cognitive abnormalities and the striatal degeneration of HD is incompletely understood. In order to explore this issue, we studied the behavior of rats with histologically confirmed bilateral quinolinate (QUIN)-induced lesions of the medial striatum. In a series of Morris Water Maze (MWM) experiments and Delayed Alternation (DA) tests, QUIN-lesioned animals exhibited: (i) impaired acquisition of visuospatial skills; (ii) impaired &quot;transfer of learning&quot;; (iii) preseverative behavior; (iv) deficient retrieval or retention of stored memories. The lesioned rats were unimpaired with swimming to a visible platform, while moving spontaneously in behavior boxes, and when performing various specialized tests of motor function. These results indicate that QUIN-induced lesions of the medial striatum can produce impairments of visuospatial skills, cognitive flexibility, and recall. These are the categories of cognitive function that are disturbed in HD. This suggests that the striatal degeneration of HD could be a sufficient explanation for the cognitive abnormalities associated with the illness.
We have examined the trophic effects of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), truncated insulin-like growth factor-1 (tIGF), and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) on embryonic striatal neurons grown under serum-free culture conditions. Striatal neurons were identified using immunocytochemistry for dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP-32). In our serum-free striatal cultures, the survival and the development of DARPP-32- containing neurons were dependent on initial plating density: relatively high density cultures yielded disproportionately increased number of harvested DARPP-32- positive neurons. All three growth factors, bFGF (10 ng/ml), tIGF-1 (50 ng/ml), and NT-3 (50 ng/ml), promoted the survival of DARPP-32-positive neurons, with bFGF being significantly more effective than tIGF-1 and NT-3. Exposure to bFGF also significantly increased the total cell number compared to control cultures, whereas there was only a tendency toward more (20-30%) surviving cells in cultures treated with either tIGF-1 or NT-3. With the concentrations used, only bFGF gave rise to a significant increase (80%) in the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunopositive glia as compared to controls. The most pronounced effect on morphological development of DARPP-32-containing neurons was seen with NT-3, which increased the length of neurites, the number of branching points on the neurites, and the soma area. There was no alteration of the morphology of this neuronal population in bFGF-treated cultures. All of these growth factors were seen to be approximately equally efficient at protecting striatal neurons from N-methyl-D- aspartate-induced excitotoxicity. These data indicate that bFGF, tIGF-1, and NT3 exert different trophic activities on striatal neurons in vitro and suggest that these growth factors might also be involved in the regulation of neuronal development and maintenance in the striatum.
The effectiveness of dihydroergotamine administered by home subcutaneous injection by the patient or family for severe headache attacks was assessed retrospectively in 51 patients. Average follow-up was 21 weeks. Twenty-one patients had intermittent migraine attacks, 27 had transformed migraine with chronic daily headache, and 3 had chronic tension-type headache. Of the 51 patients taught home injection, 35% had an excellent overall response, 18% had a good response, 12% had a poor response but continued to use dihydroergotamine, and 35% had discontinued dihydroergotamine use. Side effects were the main reason for stopping dihydroergotamine. These included nausea or vomiting or both, limb pain or numbness or both, chest or throat tightness or both, and soreness at the injection site. Thirty-three patients (65%) continued to use dihydroergotamine at the end of the follow-up period. In patients who previously required injections from medical personnel for headache crises and in whom home injection of dihydroergotamine was effective, a dramatic reduction occurred in hospital emergency room and physician office utilization. Dihydroergotamine use by home injection can be an effective treatment for a significant proportion of patients with severe migraine including patients with transformed migraine and medication overuse.
X-linked hydrocephalus (HSAS) is the most common form of inherited hydrocephalus characterized by hydrocephalus due to stenosis of the aqueduct of Sylvius, mental retardation, clasped thumbs, and spastic paraparesis. MASA syndrome (mental retardation, aphasia, shuffling gait and adducted thumbs) and SPG1 (X-linked complicated spastic paraplegia) are also X-linked disorders with overlapping clinical signs. Linkage analysis studies implicated the neural cell adhesion molecule L1 (L1CAM) gene as a candidate gene for these X-linked disorders. This genetic study analyzes the L1CAM gene in a Japanese family with members suffering from HSAS, and describes a deletion of five nucleotides in exon 8. Screening by Bg1I digestion of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products revealed that two siblings have the same mutation and a sister was identified as a heterozygous carrier. The 5 nucleotide deletion causes a shift of the reading frame and introduces a premature stop codon 72 nucleotides downstream, which might result in a truncated protein. The mutation identified herein is a novel L1CAM mutation, which triggers hydrocephalus. We report a unique L1CAM mutation that causes HSAS: the first report of such a mutation in a Japanese family.
During magnetic stimulation, electric fields are induced both on the inside (intracellular region) and the outside (extracellular region) of nerve fibers. The induced electric fields in each region can be expressed as the sum of a primary and a secondary component. The primary component arises due to an applied time varying magnetic field and is the time derivative of a vector potential. The secondary component of the induced field arises due to charge separation in the volume conductor surrounding the nerve fiber and is the gradient of a scalar potential. The question, &quot;What components of intracellular fields and extracellular induced electric fields contribute to excitation?&quot; has, so far, not been clearly addressed. In this paper, we address this question while deriving a generalized cable equation for magnetic stimulation and explicitly identify the different components of applied fields that contribute to excitation. In the course of this derivation, we review several assumptions of the core-conductor cable model in the context of magnetic stimulation. It is shown that out of the possible four components, only the first spatial derivative of the intracellular primary component and the extracellular secondary component of the fields contribute to excitation of a nerve fiber. An earlier form of the cable equation for magnetic stimulation has been shown to result in solutions identical to three-dimensional (3-D) volume-conductor model for the specific configuration of an isolated axon in a located in an infinite homogenous conducting medium. In this paper, we extend and generalize this result by demonstrating that our generalized cable equation results in solutions identical to 3-D volume conductor models even for complex geometries of volume conductors surrounding axons such as a nerve bundle of different conductivity surrounding axons. This equivalence in the solutions is valid for several representations of a nerve bundle such as anisotropic monodomain and bidomain models.
We investigated binding of p53- and Ras-derived peptides with frequently observed missense mutations, to various L cell transfectants expressing a single species of HLA-DR complex, and found that: (i) all the synthetic peptides bound to various DR complexes with a variable affinity; (ii) some DR allelic products had a high affinity for both p53- and Ras-derived peptides (e.g., DRB1*1502), whereas others almost no affinity (e.g., DRB1*1101); and (iii) DR-binding motifs described in the literature can explain some of the allele-specific interactions between mutated peptides and DR complexes. Therefore, some mutated Ras- and p53-derived peptides could be tumor-specific antigens recognized by CD4+ T cells in an HLA-DR allele-specific manner.

We studied the effects of aging on alpha-receptor-mediated vasoconstrictive responses to sympathetic nerve activity in 16 healthy aged [75.8 +/- 2.7 (SE) yr] and young men (33.8 +/- 2.0 yr). Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA), heart rate, and blood pressure were analyzed during slow respiration (0.1 Hz). Peak amplitude and phase were calculated from a cosine function fitted with 0.1 Hz by using the least squares method. The latency of the pressor response to MSNA, defined as lag time from the peak of MSNA to diastolic blood pressure, was significantly longer in the aged than the young group (7.1 +/- 0.3 vs. 5.4 +/- 0.4 s; P &lt; 0.01). The extent of pressor response to MSNA, defined as diastolic blood pressure rise in response to increase in total MSNA, was significantly lower in the aged than the young group (0.038 +/- 0.006 vs. 0.099 +/- 0.024 mmHg/unit, P &lt; 0.001). These results suggest that alpha-receptor-mediated vasoconstrictive responses to MSNA may be attenuated in the elderly.
Muscle development involves a series of complex cell-cell interactions that are mediated, at least in part, by several different cell adhesion molecules. Previous work from this lab showed that the different isoforms of NCAM and its level of polysialylation are developmentally regulated during chick myogenesis in vivo and that this regulation is important for normal muscle development. Using developing chick secondary myotubes grown in culture, we show here that both the polysialylation of NCAM and the developmental switch in isoform expression are regulated by activity and that Ca2+ entry through voltage-gated channels and the subsequent activation of protein kinase C are required for the developmental changes in NCAM isoform synthesis. Specifically, PSA expression was shown to be developmentally regulated with high expression being temporally correlated with the onset of spontaneous contractile activity. Furthermore, blocking contractile activity caused a decrease in PSA expression, while increasing activity with electrical stimulation resulted in its up-regulation. Immunoblot and metabolic labeling studies indicated that dividing myoblasts synthesize primarily 145-kD NCAM, newly formed, spontaneously contracting myotubes synthesize 130-, 145-, and 155-kD NCAM isoforms, while older, more mature myotubes primarily synthesize the glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored 130-kD isoform which, in contrast to the other three isoforms, had a high rate of turnover. This developmental switch in NCAM isoform expression could be inhibited with Ca2+ channel blockers and inhibitors of protein kinase C. Taken together, these results suggest that Ca2+ ions and protein kinase C are involved in a second messenger cascade coupling membrane depolarization with transcriptional factors that regulate NCAM isoform synthesis and polysialylation.
Cerebral infarction volume after occlusion of a short proximal segment of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) is reported to be different in Wistar compared to Fischer-344 (F344) rats, in both size and variability. Knowledge about the cause of these differences might enable us to explain and perhaps reduce the variation in infarct volume and create a reproducible model of focal cerebral ischemia in the rat. We investigated in Wistar and F344 rats both the effect of occlusion of a long proximal MCA segment on cerebral infarction volume, visualized by magnetic resonance imaging and histology, and the morphology of the major cerebral arteries. Occlusion of a long proximal MCA segment resulted in a striatal and a small cortical infarction in Wistar and a striatal and sizable cortical infarction in F344 rats (as is the case after occlusion of a short proximal MCA segment). In Wistar rats, however, occlusion of a long proximal MCA segment strongly reduced the variability in infarction volume in comparison to occlusion of a small proximal MCA segment. Analysis of the morphology of the major cerebral arteries showed a significantly higher number of proximal side branches of the long proximal MCA segment in Wistar rates than in F344 rats. We conclude that after short-segment proximal MCA occlusion, extreme variability in cerebral infarction volume in Wistar rats compared to F344 rats may be attributable to a significantly greater number of proximal MCA side branches in Wistar rats than in F344 rats.
The possibility that cortical spreading depression (CSD) may have neuroprotective action during subsequent focal cerebral ischemia was examined in rats. Three days before the imposition of focal cerebral ischemia CSDs were elicited by applying potassium chloride (KC1) for 2 h through a microdialysis probe implanted in the occipital cortex. Control animals were handled identically except that saline was infused instead of KC1. Focal ischemia was produced by the intraluminal suture method and cortical and subcortical infarct volumes were measured 7 days later. Neocortical infarct volume was reduced from 124.8 +/- 49.5 mm(3) in the controls to 62.9 +/- 59.5 mm(3) in the animals preconditioned with CSD (p = 0.012). There was no difference between the two groups in the subcortical infarct volume or in CBF, measured by the hydrogen clearance method, during or immediately after the ischemic interval. Our data indicate that preconditioning CSD applied 3 days before middle cerebral artery occlusion may increase the brain's resistance to focal ischemic damage and may be used as a model to explore the neuroprotective molecular responses of neuronal and glial cells.
Neuroanatomic, pathologic, and neurobehavioral studies point to a cerebellar and parietal abnormality in autism. We used a standardized protocol to examine neurologic function in 28 pediatric autistic subjects and 24 pediatric normal healthy volunteer controls. As a group, the autistic subjects had quantitative measures from magnetic resonance imaging suggesting hypoplasia or hyperplasia of the cerebellar vermis, as well as measurements of posterior corpus callosum suggesting abnormalities of posterior cortex. In groups of tests that reflect cerebellar and parietal function, the neurologic abnormalities detectable by clinical examination were significantly greater for autistic subjects than for normal controls. These studies confirm that the structural and behavioral deficit in autism does lead to abnormalities that can be detected on the clinical neurologic examination.

Until there is a greater understanding of basic tremorgenic mechanisms in the central nervous system, current classifications of tremors rely heavily on the behavioural characteristics, putative sites of origin, and/or the underlying disease process. Careful clinical evaluation remains the centrum of tremor classification. Few tremors do show specific neurophysiological features that will clinch diagnosis, e.g., primary orthostatic tremor and dystonic tremor. With the exception of dopaminergic drugs in Parkinson's disease, drug effects in tremors are unpredictable and nonspecific. Drug side effects should be considered in the differential diagnosis of any unexplained tremor.
The current study examined anger expression styles and their relationship to levels of depressed mood and aggressive behavior in male and female children and adolescents. Measures of anger, anger expression, and depressed mood were collected from both children and their parents. Hierarchical multiple regressions revealed that anger expression significantly predicted sadness but not aggression for females, after accounting for age and anger level. Among males, anger expression was important in predicting aggression but not sadness, whereas age and anger level best predicted sadness. These results suggest that age, anger level, and anger expression may be risk factors for depression and aggression among children and adolescents. Sex appears to be an important factor in anger expression styles and related depression and aggressive behavior.
This research investigated whether regular spatial orienting sequences can be learned implicitly and independently of response requirements. In a new version of a serial response task introduced by M. J. Nissen and P. Bullemer (1987) participants had to discriminate between objects that could occur at different locations. Independent sequences determined the succession of locations and objects. Even participants who were not aware of any regularities exhibited evidence for learning of both sequences (Experiment 1). Experiment 2 showed that the joint learning of spatial and object sequences was as efficient as learning of single sequences and that it even occurred when learning required memory for past sequence elements and attention was blocked through a secondary tone-counting task. Results are consistent with the idea that independent systems may exist for the implicit acquisition of spatial and nonspatial regularities.
Modulation of the amount of neuropeptide released from a neurosecretory tissue may be achieved by different means. These include alterations in the quantity secreted from each active nerve terminal or in the actual number of terminals activated. From the vertebrate hypothalamus, magnocellular neurons project their axons as bundles of fibers through the median eminence and infundibular stalk to arborize extensively and terminate in the neurohypophysis, where the neurohypophysial peptides and proteins are released into the circulation by a Ca-dependent mechanism. Elevating [Ca2+]o increases the magnitude of an intrinsic optical change in the neurohypophysial terminals that is intimately related to the quantity of neuropeptide released. Similarly, the addition of micromolar concentrations of 4-aminopyridine to the bathing solution enhances this change in large angle light scattering. However, we show here that, while these effects are superficially similar, they reflect different mechanisms of action. Evidence from intrinsic optical signals (light scattering) and extrinsic (potentiometric dye) absorption changes suggests that calcium increases the amount of neuropeptide released from each active terminal in the classical manner, while 4-aminopyridine exerts its secretagogue action by enhancing the invasion of action potentials into the magno-cellular neuron's terminal arborization, increasing the actual number of terminals activated. Physiologically, electrical invasion of the complex terminal arborization in the neurohypophysis may represent an extremely sensitive control point for modulation of peptide secretion. This would be especially effective in a neurohaemal organ like the posterior pituitary, where, in contrast with a collection of presynaptic terminals, the precise location of release is less important than the quantity released.
This study aimed to clarify whether the age-related decline in selective attention widely reported in the literature can be attributed to a selective deficit in the segregation of relevant streams of sound from irrelevant ones. Young and older individuals responded to infrequent deviant stimuli (targets) mixed with distractors in situations that facilitated perception of one or two streams of sounds. Both young and older adults showed the same degree of improvement in performance under conditions that promoted auditory streaming. However, in both listening conditions young subjects were faster and more accurate than older subjects in responding to target zones. Thus, it appears that age-related declines in auditory selective attention cannot be attributed to a selective deficit in the segregation of auditory sequences, but occur in a subsequent stage of processing such as response selection and/or execution.
Opioid peptides serve as tonically active negative growth factors in neural and non-neural cells, in addition to being neuromodulators. To investigate the involvement of opioids in homeostatic renewal of epithelial cells in the epidermis, mice were given systemic injections of the potent opioid antagonist, naltrexone (NTX) (20 mg/kg). Disruption of opioid-receptor interaction by NTX resulted in an elevation of 42 and 72% in DNA synthesis in skin from the dorsum and plantar surface of the hindfoot, respectively, within 2 h; response to NTX was dependent on the circadian rhythm in each region examined. Injection of the naturally occurring and potent opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met5]-enkephalin, at 1 mg/kg depressed DNA synthesis in the dorsum and plantar surface by 42 and 19%, respectively, within 2 h; the effects of OGF complied with the pattern of circadian rhythm in each area of skin. The decreases in labeling index evoked by OGF were blocked by concomitant administration of the opioid antagonist, naloxone (10 mg/kg); naloxone alone at the dosage utilized had no influence on cell replicative processes. In tissue culture studies, OGF and NTX respectively depressed and elevated DNA synthesis. Both OGF and its receptor, zeta, were detected in all but the cornified layer of the epidermis in murine skin from the dorsum, plantar surface, pinnae, and tail. In addition, both peptide and receptor were observed in basal and suprabasal cells of the human epidermis. These results lead to the suggestion that an endogenous opioid peptide and its receptor are present and govern cellular renewal processes in the skin in a direct manner, regulating DNA synthesis in a tonically inhibitory, circadian rhythm-dependent fashion.
The hypothesis was tested that the preferred frequency of rhythmic movement corresponds to the resonant frequency of the muscle-limb system, as proposed by the hybrid spring-pendulum model (Kugler Turvey, 1987). In contrast to previous studies, the resonant frequency and stiffness of the system were estimated independently, which permitted quantitative predictions of the preferred frequency to be made. Human subjects (N = 5) were asked to oscillate their forearms in the vertical plane at their preferred frequency under conditions of added mass and external spring loading. Subjects also oscillated their arms at frequencies below and above the preferred frequency, which enabled the investigators to estimate the resonant frequency and stiffness of the elbow joint by using the phase transfer method (Viviani, Soechting, Terzuolo, 1976). The preferred frequency corresponded to the resonant frequency of the muscle-limb system under each condition, as predicted. The oscillation amplitude varied inversely with the preferred frequency, which was also predicted. Finally, the internal joint stiffness was modulated so that it matched the impedance of the external springs but was unaffected by added mass. The results are consistent with an autonomous oscillator model that incorporates proprioception about the dynamics of the periphery.
The nerve growth factor (NGF) family and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) support survival and/or neurite outgrowth of many cell types. However, it is not known whether the neurite outgrowth induced by neurotrophic factors results in the formation of synapses. We tested NGF and CNTF for their ability to induce neurite outgrowth and synapse formation in vitro by interneurons from the mollusc Lymnaea. Dopaminergic and peptidergic interneurons survived in the absence of neurotrophic factors but exhibited robust outgrowth in response to both NGF and CNTF. Chemical synapses formed between these interneurons and their target neurons cultured in NGF, but synapses were absent in CNTF. Survival, neurite outgrowth, and synaptogenesis are therefore differentially regulated in these neurons.
Ser55 within the head domain of neurofilament light chain (NF-L) is transiently phosphorylated by protein kinase A, and phosphorylation of this residue is thought to regulate assembly of neurofilaments. To understand how Ser55 phosphorylation influences NF-L assembly, wild-type and mutant NF-L genes in which Ser55 was mutated to alanine, so as to prevent phosphorylation, or to aspartate, so as to mimic permanent phosphorylation, were transfected into mammalian cells that contain or do not contain an endogenous intermediate filament network. Wild-type and mutant NF-Ls localised to the Triton X-100-insoluble fraction, which suggests that phosphorylation of Ser55 does not inhibit assembly of NF-L and NF-L/ vimentin polymers at or below the tetrameric stage. Immunofluorescence microscopy of transfected cells demonstrated that the wild-type and mutant NF-Ls all colocalised with vimentin to produce similar filamentous arrays. However, in cells lacking an endogenous intermediate filament network, the aspartate mutant produced a pattern of staining different from that of the wild-type or alanine mutant. These results suggest that phosphorylation of NF-L Ser55 is not a mechanism that precludes assembly of neurofilaments from monomers into intermediate filament structures but that phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of this residue might confer more subtle characteristics on neurofilament assembly properties and architecture.
Differentiation of NG108-15 neuroblastoma cells following exposure to either 1.5% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)/0.5% fetal bovine serum (FBS) or serum starvation resulted in significant differences in angiotensin (AT) receptor levels and the AT1/AT2 receptor ratio. When NG108 cells were differentiated for 4 days with DMSO/low serum, the number of AT binding sites increased 30-fold compared with the binding levels on undifferentiated (blast) cells. However, cells differentiated by serum starvation for 4 or 14 days resulted in only a modest 2.5- and fivefold increase in AT receptor levels, respectively, over the levels seen with the undifferentiated cells. KD values for all treatment conditions were not significantly different (0.71 +/- 0.11 nM, p = 0.06). Using the AT1 and AT2 isoform-specific receptor antagonists losartan and PD123319, the relative numbers of AT receptor subtypes on undifferentiated and differentiated cells were determined by competitive inhibition against 125I-[Sar1,Ile8]-angiotensin II (sarile). A majority of the AT receptors on undifferentiated NG108 cells were the AT1 subtype (AT1/AT2 receptor ratio of 8:3). Differentiation by serum starvation and DMSO/low serum treatment resulted in fivefold and 30-fold increases in AT receptor levels, respectively, compared with the levels seen with the undifferentiated cells. Although serum starvation increased the total number of AT1 and AT2 receptors, it did not significantly alter the AT1/AT2 receptor ratio. In contrast, differentiation with DMSO/low serum both increased the total number of AT1 and AT2 receptors and reversed the AT1/AT2 receptor ratio (1:3). The increase in AT receptors following differentiation with DMSO/low serum for 4 days was largely accounted for by an 80-fold increase in the AT2 receptor level. Previous studies by Tallant at al. (1991) and Bryson et al. (1992) reported increased AT2 receptor expression following neuroblastoma differentiation with dibutyryl cyclic AMP and DMSO/low serum, respectively, and suggested a role for the AT2 receptor in neuronal differentiation. In the present study, we have extended these earlier observations by demonstrating that the method of differentiation significantly affects both the AT receptor level and the ratio of AT1 to AT2 receptor expression. Finally, our findings indicate that the AT2 receptor is expressed as a consequence of neuronal maturation and dose not mediate morphological differentiation.
Suramin is a polysulfonated naphthylurea with demonstrated antineoplastic activity. Toxicity includes adrenal insufficiency and peripheral neuropathy. Although the mechanism of antitumor activity is unknown, inhibition of binding of growth factors to their receptors has been suggested. Growth factors inhibited by suramin include platelet-derived growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, transforming growth factor, epidermal growth factor, insulin-like growth factor, and nerve growth factor (NGF). In these studies, suramin was shown to be cytotoxic to PC12 cells in a dose-dependent manner. At lower doses and in surviving cells, we observed the induction of neurite outgrowth. To determine the mechanism of suramin-induced neurite outgrowth, PC12 cells were exposed to suramin and/or NGF for various time periods and treated cells were analyzed, by western blot analysis, for expression of tyrosine phosphoproteins. There was a similarity in the pattern of tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins in PC12 cells stimulated with suramin or NGF. Of particular interest was the rapid phosphorylation (by 1 min) of the high-affinity NGF (TrkA) receptor. Activation of other members of the signal-transduction cascade (Shc, p21ras, Raf-1, ERK-1) revealed similar phosphorylation levels induced by suramin and NGF. Parallel studies were performed in rat dorsal root ganglion cultures; suramin potentiated neurite outgrowth and activated the NGF receptor on these cells. This finding of specific patterns of tyrosine phosphorylation of cellular proteins in response to suramin treatment demonstrated that suramin is a partial agonist for the NGF receptor in both PC12 cells and dorsal root ganglion neurons.
Significant densities of mRNA for the dopamine D4 receptor in cerebral cortex, particularly in frontal lobe, have been reported in rats and monkeys, supporting the D4 hypothesis in the pathology of schizophrenia. Using northern blot analysis and the competitive reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method, we determined the relative levels of D4 mRNA in human brain regions to clarify whether the cortical level is also higher in humans. Northern blot analysis revealed an unexpected profile of D4 mRNA in the brain. The detected mRNA size, 1.5 kb, was quite different from the 5.3 kb reported in human neuroblastoma SK-N-MC cells. Higher levels of D4 mRNA were detected not only in the mesolimbic system but also in the corpus callosum, spinal cord, medulla, and subthalamic nucleus. It was surprising that in the cerebral cortex regions as well as the striatum, D4 mRNA was hardly detected. The competitive RT-PCR revealed these relative densities to be at least three orders of magnitude lower than that of the striatal D2 receptor. Our results demonstrate a remarkable difference in cortical D4 mRNA density in humans compared with that in rats and monkeys. Furthermore, the mRNA distribution suggests that the higher density of D4-like binding sites reported recently in normal human striatum is not due to the D4 receptor.
The aim of the study reported here was to test the validity of a simple clinical classification of acute ischaemic stroke (Oxfordshire Community Stroke Project, OCSP) in predicting the site and size of cerebral infarction on computed tomography (CT). Consecutive patients admitted to hospital with acute ischaemic stroke were prospectively identified and classified into one of four clinical syndromes according to the OCSP classification, blind to the result of CT. The CT brain scans were classified blind to the clinical features into those demonstrating: small, medium or large cortical infarcts; small or large subcortical infarcts in the anterior circulation territory; and posterior cerebral circulation territory infarcts. A total of 108 patients were included. A recent infarct was seen on the CT scan in 91 patients (84%), and the clinical classification correctly predicted the site and size of the cerebral infarct in 80 of these (88%; 95% confidence interval 77-92%). The positive predictive value was best for large cortical infarcts (0.94) and worst for small subcortical infarcts (0.63). The OCSP clinical classification is a reasonably valid way of predicting the site and size of cerebral infarction on CT and can, therefore, be used very early after stroke onset before the infarct appears on the scan.


The ghost tangles (GTs) in usual Alzheimer's disease are separated into small bundles of abnormal straight filaments by many invading astrocytic processes lacking a basal lamina (BL). An electron microscopic study of GTs in the Ammon's horn of a case of juvenile Alzheimer's disease of 25 years' duration, however, revealed that only a small number of astrocytic processes had infiltrated the GTs, resulting in the GTs being composed of large bundles. Moreover, the majority of glial processes that had invaded or apposed GTs possessed an interrupted but still fairly well-developed BL with hemidesmosome-like profiles. Although pia-arachnoid cells are required for astrocytes to form a continuous BL, astrocytes can have a segmental BL on their surface facing even empty intercellular spaces within the brain parenchyma. The much greater frequency and better development of the GT-associated BL in our case indicate that the GT filaments somehow increased the ability of astrocytes to form a BL. On the other hand, the scarcity of GT-invading astrocytic processes implies that many of the glial processes that had once penetrated GTs had been withdrawn, with the result that GTs escaped expectable endocyto-phagocytosis by astrocytes.
An intradural extramedullary spinal cord hemangioendothelioma at T10, T11 recurred twice and was irradiated after the third resection. This first reported case prompted a review of the neuropathology and natural history of this unusual tumor.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) is a plasma protein that regulates lipid transport and cholesterol homeostasis. In humans, apoE occurs as 3 major isoforms (apoE2, E3, and E4). Genetic evidence demonstrates an overrepresentation of the apoE epsilon 4 allele in Alzheimer's disease (AD). While apoE immunoreactivity (IR) is associated with the amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles of AD, few studies have characterized the localization of apoE in normal human brains. We examined the distribution of apoE in the cerebral cortex of normal aged individuals and compared the results to clinically diagnosed and pathologically confirmed AD cases. In addition, we characterized the apoE IR in brains from high plaque non-demented (HPND) cases. We observed consistent and widespread apoE staining in cortical neurons from normal and HPND individuals. This finding was confirmed by double immunostaining which colocalized apoE with microtubule-associated protein-2, as well as low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein, an apoE receptor found on neurons. In contrast, AD brains displayed apoE IR in plaques and neurofibrillary tangles with little neuronal staining. These data clearly establish the presence of apoE in normal neurons, supporting an intracellular role for apoE. Moreover, the results suggest that this function of apoE is disrupted in AD, where apoE staining of neurons was drastically reduced.
Peripheral Myelin Protein-22 (PMP22) is a membrane glycoprotein which represents up to 5% of total protein in myelin of peripheral nerves. Mutations affecting the PMP22 gene have been linked to the inherited peripheral neuropathies Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A (CMT1A; duplications and point mutations), Dejerine-Sottas syndrome (DSS; point mutations), and hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies (HNPP; deletions). In this study, we determined the ultrastructural distribution of PMP22 and other myelin proteins in normal human peripheral nervous system (PNS) nerves and in CMT1 patients with or without the CMT1A duplication on chromosome 17. Our results demonstrate that PMP22, P0 protein, and myelin basic protein are present in compact myelin of all patients examined. PMP22 was also present in the plasma membrane of Schwann cells of unmyelinated fibers and onion bulbs. Although the precise biological role of PMP22 remains to be discovered, our results support the hypothesis that this protein serves multiple functions in Schwann cells.
1. The passive cable properties of rat hippocampal neurons in dissociated culture were studied using focal application of hypertonic solution to locally elicit miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) on the soma and dendrites. Neurons were filled with Lucifer yellow and portions of their dendritic trees were measured. 2. The average mEPSC measured at the soma appeared smaller and slower as the site of sucrose application was made more distal. Normalizing to a 1-micron diam dendrite, the mean mEPSC peak amplitude and charge was reduced e-fold in 170 and 1,000 microns, respectively, and the mean mEPSC decay time constant was increased e-fold in 150 microns. However, for any particular sucrose site, individual mEPSCs varied widely in their amplitudes and time courses. Plots of individual peak amplitudes versus half-width or rise time showed much overlap for mEPSCs originating from sites as much as 100 microns apart. This suggests that use of such plots to estimate the electrotonic location of synaptic currents is highly prone to error. 3. Averaged mEPSCs recorded when applying sucrose at the soma were poorly fitted by an alpha function but were well-described by an equation of the form mxh, where m incorporates a rise-time constant tau 1 and h a decay time constant tau 2. Averaged fits to mean mEPSCs elicited at the somas of five cells gave (mean +/- SE): peak conductance = 832 +/- 126 pS, tau 1 = 0.29 +/- 0.06 ms, tau 2 = 3.03 +/- 0.24 ms, x = 4.7 +/- 0.7. 4. For three cells, the entire dendritic branch to which sucrose was applied was measured and used to construct a passive cable model. The specific membrane resistance (Rm) and intracellular resistivity (Ri) were varied systematically in the model (assuming membrane capacitance Cm = 1 microF/cm2) to search for the best agreement between the mean mEPSCs and the model. Optimal Rm was found to lie in the range 20-30 k omega cm2, Ri in the range 100-200 omega cm. 5. These results confirm those obtained by other methods and emphasize the considerable cable filtering of fast electrical events in cultured hippocampal neurons.
1. Single binocularly driven complex neurons in cat striate cortex were recorded extracellularly under nitrous oxide-oxygen-halothane anesthesia and muscle relaxant. Orientational/directional tuning was initially derived for each eye in turn, with sine wave gratings of optimal spatial frequency and velocity, while the other eye viewed a uniform field. 2. For the dominant eye, previously concealed suppression was revealed against elevated levels of firing induced with a conditioning grating, drifting continuously in the preferred direction, simultaneously presented to the nondominant eye. During steady-state binocular conditioning, orientational/directional tuning was reestablished for the dominant eye. In a subset of cells, tuning curves during conditioning were also derived for the reverse configuration, i.e., nondominant eye tuning, dominant eye conditioning: results were qualitatively identical to those for conditioning through the nondominant eye. 3. Neurons were initially segregated into five groups, according to the observed suppression profiles induced at nonoptimal orientations/directions during conditioning: Type 1, suppression centered on orthogonal directions; Type 2, suppression around null directions; Type 3, null suppression combined with orthogonal suppression; Type 4, lateral suppression, maximal for directions immediately flanking those inducing excitation; and Type 5, the residue of cells, totally lacking suppression or showing complex or variable suppression. 4. Sharpness of (excitatory) tuning was correlated with directionality and with class of suppression revealed during binocular conditioning. Direction-biased neurons were more sharply orientation tuned than direction-selective neurons; similarly, neurons exhibiting lateral or orthogonal suppression during conditioning were more sharply tuned than neurons with null suppression. 5. Application of suboptimal directions of conditioning weakened the induced suppression but altered none of its main characteristics. 6. The relationship between excitation, suppression, and spatial frequency was investigated by comparing tuning curves for the dominant eye at several spatial frequencies, without and during conditioning. End-stopped neurons preferred lower spatial frequencies and higher velocities of motion than non-end-stopped neurons. Confirming previous reports, suppression in some neurons was still present for spatial frequencies above the cutoff frequency for excitation, demonstrating the tendency for suppression to be more broadly spatial frequency tuned than excitation. 7. Scatterplots of strength of suppression, in directions orthogonal and opposite maximal excitation, partially segregated neurons of Types 1-3. Clearer segregation of Types 1-4 was obtained by curve-fitting to profiles of suppression, and correlating half-width of tuning for suppression with the angle between the directions of optimal suppression and optimal excitation in each neuron. 8. Two interpretations are advanced-the first, based on three discrete classes of inhibition, orthogonal, null and lateral; the second, based on only two classes, orthogonal and null/lateral--in which null and lateral suppression are manifestations of the same inhibitory mechanism operating, respectively, on broadly tuned direction-selective or on sharply tuned direction-biased neurons. Orthogonal suppression may be untuned for direction, whereas lateral and null suppression are broadly direction tuned. Within each class, suppression is more broadly spatial frequency tuned than excitation. 9. It is concluded that orientational/directional selectivity of complex cells at different spatial frequencies is determined by the balance between tuned excitation and varying combinations of relatively broadly distributed or untuned inhibition.
We develop a theoretical framework that shows how mesencephalic dopamine systems could distribute to their targets a signal that represents information about future expectations. In particular, we show how activity in the cerebral cortex can make predictions about future receipt of reward and how fluctuations in the activity levels of neurons in diffuse dopamine systems above and below baseline levels would represent errors in these predictions that are delivered to cortical and subcortical targets. We present a model for how such errors could be constructed in a real brain that is consistent with physiological results for a subset of dopaminergic neurons located in the ventral tegmental area and surrounding dopaminergic neurons. The theory also makes testable predictions about human choice behavior on a simple decision-making task. Furthermore, we show that, through a simple influence on synaptic plasticity, fluctuations in dopamine release can act to change the predictions in an appropriate manner.
The basal amygdaloid complex (BAC) topographically projects to the nucleus accumbens (Acb) in patchy, inhomogeneous patterns. These termination patterns may be related to the histological features of the Acb that define the shell, core, and adjacent ventral caudate-putamen (CPv), and the ventral striatal compartments providing output to different autonomic, motor, and endocrine targets. Knowledge of the relationships of BAC afferents with these compartments is essential for understanding the activities of amygdalostriatal circuits. Therefore, anterograde tracing experiments were performed, combined with calbindin-D28K (CaB) immunohistochemistry or Nissl staining. The results demonstrated that the caudal parvicellular basal amygdala (Bpc) projected primarily to cell clusters in the dorsal shell of the medial Acb, and to patches in the core/CPv. Fibers from the caudal accessory basal nucleus (AB) selectively reached CaB-immunoreactive cell clusters in the ventral shell, avoiding the core/CPv. The rostral AB projected to the same ventral shell compartments as the caudal AB; in addition, dense terminations were found in the matrix of the core/CPv, avoiding the patches. Caudal magnocellular basal amygdala (Bmg) fibers reached ventral parts of the shell, including the CaB-immunoreactive cell clusters. The caudal Bmg projected strongly to the patches of the core/CPv, evading the matrix. Finally, the rostral Bmg densely innervated the moderately CaB-immunoreactive lateral shell and the patches of the core/CPv, largely avoiding the matrix. These results indicate the specific compartmental relationships of the patchy BAC terminations and suggest that BAC subregions differentially influence particular ventral striatal outputs.
The midbrain of the adult homozygous weaver (wv/wv) mouse is notable for a reduction in the numbers of dopamine-containing cells in the substantia nigra (A9) and the retrorubral nucleus (A8). We have determined that the reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons in the ventral midbrain of the weaver is attributable to the loss of neurons after postnatal day 7 (P7). Because the number and spatial distribution of TH-positive mesencephalic neurons in wv/wv, heterozygous weavers (+/wv), and wild-type mice are not significantly different on P7, we conclude that the early developmental steps of proliferation and migration have taken place normally in the mutant. Although numbers and distribution of cells are normal in the wv/wv on P7, the appearance of the TH-stained ventral midbrain is abnormal because of the paucity of TH-stained dendritic processes. The ventrally extending TH-positive dendrites are largely absent in the young wv/wv. The wv/wv also can be distinguished from both homozygous normal (+/+) and wv/wv littermates on P7 based on the appearance of dendrites that are more numerous than in the wv/wv but thin, disorganized, and sparse compared with +/+. Most cell death seems to take place in wv/wv before P21. However, at least one subset of dopamine-containing neurons disappears later. The zone of densely packed TH-positive neurons in the substantia nigra that is likely to be the origin of innervation to striosomes in the caudoputamen disappears between P21 and adulthood. Despite the early pathology evident in the mesencephalic dopamine-producing neurons of the +/wv, no evidence for cell death was observed there even in the oldest +/wv weavers studied.
The expression of novel TrkB receptor transcripts has been characterized to understand the potentially diverse roles of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the developing avian visual system. In situ localization with an extracellular domain probe common to all TrkB transcripts labeled a sub-population of large retinal ganglion cells as well as many associated visual nuclei, including the neuronal layers within the tectum that receive retinal innervation. Because of the potential for structurally and functionally distinct receptors derived from the TrkB gene locus, cDNA cloning and reverse transcription-PCR analysis were used to further analyze receptor isoform expression in the retina and tectum. Receptor isoforms were sequenced that contained a deletion of the N terminus, a deletion in the putative ligand-binding domain, or a deletion in the cytoplasmic juxtamembrane (JM) domain. Two novel JM insertion sequences also were identified, one of which exhibits weak homology to beta-actin and was found in both kinase-containing (TK+) and kinase deletion (KD) receptor isoforms. In the developing retina, TK+ receptor mRNA is upregulated during the period of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death, consistent with the proposed role of BDNF as a tectal-derived survival factor for RGCs. However, the expression of TK+ transcripts in the tectum indicates that this structure also contains cells responsive to BDNF throughout development. Because BDNF is expressed in both the retina and tectum, it is conceivable that TrkB also mediates autocrine/paracrine signaling within these structures or anterograde retinotectal trophic support.
Clustering of voltage-gated Na+ channels is critical for the fast saltatory conduction of action potentials in vertebrate myelinated axons. However, the mechanisms responsible for the generation and maintenance of Na+ channel clustering are not well understood. In this study we have raised an antibody against the cloned SCAP-1 voltage-gated Na+ channel of the marine invertebrate Aplysia californica and used it to examine Na+ channel localization in Aplysia ganglia and in cultured Aplysia sensory neurons. Our results show that there is a large cytoplasmic pool of Na+ channels in the soma of Aplysia neurons. Furthermore, we show that Na+ channels in Aplysia axons are not homogeneously distributed but, rather, are present in distinct clusters. Theoretical considerations indicate that Na+ channel clustering may enhance action potential conduction. We propose that clustered Na+ channels may be a fundamental property of many axons, and perhaps of many membranes that conduct Na(+)-dependent action potentials.
Mutant cDNAs coding for dominant-negative forms of the fibroblast growth factor receptors 1 (FGFR-1) and 2 (FGFR-2) that lack tyrosine kinase activity were ligated to a 2.2 kb DNA fragment containing the bovine rhodopsin promoter and used to generate transgenic mice. Six independent lines were generated with the FGFR-1 construct, and five were generated with the FGFR-2 construct. Five of the six FGFR-1 mutant lines and all five FGFR-2 mutant lines showed transgene expression in the retina by reverse transcription-PCR. By both in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, mutant FGFRs were found to be expressed specifically in photoreceptors of transgene-positive FGFR-1 and FGFR-2 mice. Lines expressing the FGFR-2 mutant showed progressive photoreceptor degeneration; the retinas showed minimal or no abnormalities at 1 month, but by 2 months they showed focal areas of thinning of the outer nuclear layer and disruption of photoreceptors. By 2-4 months, areas of complete loss of photoreceptors were seen. These abnormalities were not seen in control littermates not expressing the transgene. Mice from two FGFR-1 mutant lines showed focal areas of thinning of the outer nuclear layer and numerous photoreceptors with fragmented chromatin, whereas the other FGFR-1 lines showed minimal or no abnormalities. These data indicate that perturbation of FGF signaling in photoreceptors is associated with progressive photoreceptor degeneration, suggesting that one or more of the FGFs may act as a survival factor for photoreceptor cells.
The effects of dopamine (DA) and the psychostimulants cocaine and amphetamine on excitatory transmission in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) were examined in rat NAc slices using both extracellular-field and whole-cell patch-clamp recording. DA, cocaine, and amphetamine reversibly reduced the excitatory synaptic responses (EPSPs/EPSCs) elicited by stimulation of prelimbic cortical afferents. DA and amphetamine increased paired-pulse facilitation, reduced the frequency of spontaneous miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs), and had no effect on mEPSC amplitude, suggesting a presynaptic mechanism for the observed reduction in excitatory synaptic transmission. The effects of DA and amphetamine were attenuated by the D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 but not by the D2 receptor antagonist sulpiride. The broad-spectrum DA receptor agonist 6,7-ADTN mimicked the effects of DA and the psychostimulants, but neither the D1 receptor agonists SKF38393 and SKF81297 nor the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole caused a significant reduction in EPSP magnitude. SKF38393 at a higher concentration (100 microM) was effective in reducing the EPSP, however, and this reduction was sensitive to SCH23390. There was no difference in the effects of DA in cells from mutant mice lacking D1a receptors and cells from wild-type control mice. Unilaterally lesioning the dopaminergic afferents to the NAc using 6-hydroxydopamine attenuated the amphetamine-induced reduction in EPSP magnitude in slices from the lesioned hemisphere but not the control (unlesioned) hemisphere. These results indicate that DA and psychostimulants (acting indirectly by increasing endogenous extracellular DA levels) reduce excitatory synaptic transmission in the NAc by activating presynaptic DA receptors with D1-like properties.
Two major problems limiting neurobiological applications of in situ hybridization are: (1) contamination by ribonuclease (RNase), which is difficult to avoid and therefore makes the method difficult to establish for many laboratories, and (2) lack of reproducibility, which makes the method inadequate for detecting and quantifying changes in mRNA levels. We have developed a modified method of in situ hybridization which addresses these problems. RNase resistance is afforded by the inclusion of RNase inhibitors during steps in which mRNA is vulnerable to RNase digestion, alleviating the need to maintain RNase-free conditions during experiments. These changes result in higher levels of specific hybridization, while maintaining low background. In addition, a high level of reproducibility is obtained, both for sections obtained from the same animal and for corresponding sections obtained from different animals. This method has been characterized for preproenkephalin and glutamate receptor GluR 1-4 mRNAs.
Actigraphy, the long-term assessment of wrist movements by means of a small solid-state recorder, is widely used in a variety of human research fields, among which sheep, circadian rhythms and aging. Actigraphs assess movement with the use of accelerometers, which sense accelerations resulting from muscle force as well as accelerations due to changes in the position of the sensor in the gravitational field. In the present paper a method is described to minimise gravitational artefact in movement assessment by calculating the instantaneous acceleration vector from 3 perpendicular acceleration signals. It is shown that the power spectra of single axis acceleration signals are dominated by low-frequency components (+/- 0.25 Hz) due to gravitational artefact. Spectra of the instantaneous acceleration vector indicate that 'true' movement accelerations resulting from muscle force are present in a much wider range: from 0.25 to 11 Hz. Wrist accelerations in elderly subjects were found to be of lower amplitude and frequency as compared to young subjects. It is furthermore shown that a bandpass filter of 0.25 to 2 or 3 Hz, as has been used in commercially available actigraphs, is far from optional, and may even result in a positive bias for movement detection in the elderly. This bias may underly contradictory findings in actigraphic studies on human aging. When a bandpass filter of 0.5-11 Hz is applied to a single-axis acceleration signal, the influence of gravitational artefact and bias are minimized, and the age-related decline in activity is properly detected.
Although the expression of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and its receptor, proto-oncogene c-met, has been demonstrated in the central nervous system (CNS), the function of HGF in the CNS was not fully understood. In the present studies, we determined the effects of HGF on neuronal development in neocortical explant and mesencephalic neurons obtained from embryonic rat brain. HGF clearly enhanced neurite outgrowth in neocortical explants. In the mesencephalic culture, the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons was significantly higher in the HGF-treated wells and the neurites of the TH-positive neurons appear to be more developed. Moreover, the dopamine uptake into mesencephalic neurons was also enhanced by HGF treatment, indicating that HGF promotes the survival and/or maturation of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons. In both neocortical explants and mesencephalic neurons, c-met autophosphorylation was induced by HGF and MAP kinase activation was also detected in the neocortical explant. Furthermore, Western blot analysis of the cultured CNS cells revealed that HGF was expressed mainly in microglia. These results suggest that HGF from microglia has neurotrophic activity on the CNS neurons and plays significant roles in the development of the CNS.
&quot;Color Doppler energy&quot; (or &quot;power Doppler&quot;), a new color Doppler ultrasound technique that is independent of flow direction and very sensitive to movement, was assessed for its use in the identification of intracranial aneurysms in patients with recent subarachnoid hemorrhage immediately prior to using cerebral angiography. Features that identified aneurysms using this technique included the appearance of abnormal color where no normal artery was expected, abnormal bulging of an artery, and greater &quot;expansibility&quot; of the aneurysm in comparison to an adjacent normal vessel. In this exploratory study, 30 of 33 aneurysms were correctly identified in 35 patients with a good bone window. Color Doppler energy is considerably more sensitive to intracranial blood flow than conventional color Doppler imaging. Color Doppler energy is a useful research tool; if these preliminary results are verified in larger series, in addition to examination for vasospasm, the technique could be used for identification and follow up of aneurysms.
The authors have assessed the incidence of postoperative seizures in 158 patients with supratentorial meningiomas diagnosed by computerized tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, which theoretically should lead to early diagnosis and treatment and the potential for improved seizure outcome. Univariate chi-square and logistic regression analyses were performed 24 independent variables against the outcome variable of occurrence of a postoperative seizure. The median duration of preoperative seizures was 1 month, considerably shorter than that found in studies conducted prior to the advent of CT and MR imaging. Of 63 patients with a history of preoperative seizures, 40 (63.5%) had complete cessation of seizures after surgery. Twelve (92.3%) of 13 patients with one to three postoperative seizures eventually achieved complete seizure control, whereas only four (40%) of 10 patients with more than three postoperative seizures achieved this result. Overall 88.9% of patients with preoperative seizures achieved complete seizure control postoperatively. Multivariate analysis was used to identify six variables that were predictive of the occurrence of postoperative seizures: preoperative seizure history preoperative language disturbance, extent of tumor removal, parietal location of tumor, postoperative anticonvulsant medication status, and postoperative hydrocephalus. These variables were incorporated into a diagnostic model designed to predict the risk of a postoperative seizure following meningioma surgery. On the basis of their findings, the authors conclude that earlier detection and treatment of supratentorial meningiomas improve seizure outcome in patients with preoperative epilepsy. Furthermore an assessment of the risk of postoperative seizures may help guide decisions concerning weaning patients from anticonvulsant medications postoperatively.
Laser-Doppler flowmetry (LDF) was used to record subcortical cerebral blood flow in hippocampus and striatum immediately following parasaggital fluid percussion brain injuries of mild to moderate severity (2.58 +/- 0.09 atm, 10-11 msec duration) in spontaneously breathing anesthetized rats. At 5 min postinjury, mean blood flow decreased bilaterally by 20-30% in both brain structures, and remained significantly reduced during the remainder of the 60 min postinjury recording interval. Blood flow did not change in the sham-injured rats. Subsequent beam-walk, beam-balance, and rope-hang assessments revealed significant neurological impairments in the injured rats but not in the sham controls. The magnitude of the blood flow changes and the severity of the ensuing neurological impairment were significantly correlated. Histopathological assessments revealed hemorrhagic contusions within ipsilateral cortical regions, occasional neuronal necrosis within underlying thalamus and CA3 and CA4 sectors of the hippocampus, and neuronal cell loss in the hilus of the dentate gyrus. In a second series of experiments, radiolabeled microspheres were used to validate the LDF blood flow measurements. The microsphere measurements revealed that the preinjury baseline and postinjury right hippocampal blood flow changes were not significantly altered by the intrahippocampal presence of an LDF probe, verifying that the LDF probe was not by itself an unacceptably disruptive influence on local cerebrovascular reactivity. Moreover, when right hippocampal blood flow was simultaneously evaluated in injured rats by both techniques, the relative blood flow changes were significantly correlated. These results indicate that laser-Doppler flowmetry provides a potentially useful means to appreciate acute regional cerebrovascular changes relative to other measures of outcome after brain trauma.
The electroretinogram (ERG) has been a traditional tool for the measurement and the analysis of spectral sensitivity. With the appropriate choices of stimulus and measurement conditions, the ERG permits a noninvasive examination of photopigment complement and provides the means for studying the combination of spectral signals at various locations throughout the retina. There are a number of practical problems associated with making spectral measurements with the ERG. One approach to minimizing these problems is to exploit the advantages of a flicker-photometric procedure. We summarize a method used to conduct ERG flicker photometry and illustrate a range of problems to which this technique can be successfully applied.
Although 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is known to be involved in the mediation of antinociception from the periaqueductal gray (PAG), its mode of action remains obscure. This investigation uses selective 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist and antagonist drugs in both behavioral and electrophysiological studies on antinociceptive mechanisms of the PAG of rats. Intraspinal administration of 8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT), a selective 5-HT(1A) agonist, by microdialysis produced a dose-dependent antinociception in the radiant-heat paw withdrawal test. Dorsal horn neuronal activity was recorded extracellularly to test responses to noxious cutaneous stimuli when 8-OH-DPAT was administered iontophoretically, and it was observed that the noxious-evoked responses were inhibited in a current-related manner in all cells examined. The inhibitory effects elicited by 8-OH-DPAT could be selectively blocked by perfusion of the spinal cord with S-(--)-propranolol, a selective 5-HT(1A) antagonist. The antinociception produced by microinjection of morphine into the PAG was significantly attenuated in a dose-related manner by S-(--)-propranolol administered into the spinal cord. Similarly, the inhibition of dorsal horn neuronal responses to cutaneous mechanical stimuli produced by electrical stimulation in the PAG was reduced by S-(--)-propranolol administered into the spinal cord in the majority of cells tested. These data suggest that the release of 5-HT in the dorsal horn by stimulation in the PAG may act directly on spinal 5-HT(1A) receptors, resulting in inhibition of dorsal horn neurons. This is presumably one of the antinociceptive mechanisms of the descending serotonergic inhibitory pathway.
We investigated whether vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells express imidazoline (I-) receptors, their endogenous ligand agmatine and/or its biosynthetic enzyme arginine decarboxylase (ADC), and if I-receptors regulate smooth muscle proliferation. Membranes of cultured rat aortic smooth muscle or bovine pulmonary artery endothelial cells bind 3H-idazoxan. Binding was inhibited by: idazoxan &gt; cirazoline &gt; UK 14,304 &gt; naphazoline &gt; tolazoline &gt; guanabenz &gt; amiloride &gt; clonidine = phentolamine &gt; &gt; epinephrine. Agmatine competitively inhibited binding of 3H-idazoxan (Ki of 240 +/- 25 nM). Smooth muscle and endothelial cells were immunostained in vitro and in situ by antibodies to an I-receptor binding protein and by antibodies to agmatine. Rat aorta also contained substantial amounts of agmatine measured by HPLC (8.69 +/- 1.1 ng/g). Membranes of rat aorta and cultured endothelial but not smooth muscle cells expressed substantial amounts of ADC. The incorporation of 3H-thymidine and numbers of smooth muscle cells stimulated by fetal calf serum was inhibited &gt; 90% by: idazoxan &gt; UK 14,304 &gt; naphazoline &gt; cirazoline &gt; agmatine highly correlating (r= .996; P &lt; .01) with affinities for 3H-idazoxan binding site. Tolazoline, but not rauwolscine, blocked the antiproliferative action of idazoxan. We conclude that (1) vascular smooth muscle and endothelium contain imidazoline receptors of the I2 subclass; (2) stimulation of the receptors inhibits vascular smooth muscle proliferation; (3) agmatine, synthesized in endothelium by ADC may be an endogenous agonist of I2 receptors to inhibit vascular growth and (4) I2 receptors may be functionally active.
A-77636 is a dopamine (DA) D1 receptor-selective agonist that was previously shown to elicit beneficial responses in animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD) (Kebabian et al.: Eur. J. Pharmacol. 229: 203, 1992). However, A-77636 is of limited potential for PD therapy because it induces rapid tolerance in vivo. To understand the basis of rapid onset of tolerance to the compound, we conducted studies to compare the in vitro properties of A-77636 and A-81686; the latter is a structurally related D1 agonist that did not induce significant tolerance in vivo under similar experimental conditions. With SK-N-MC, a neuroblastoma cell line, as an in vitro model for the D1 receptor, significant differences in D1 receptor function were noted after pretreatment with the two compounds. Specifically, 1-hr pretreatment with A-77636 resulted in significant residual cAMP production, even after the drug solution was removed and the cells were washed. The residual cAMP activity was selectively inhibited by SCH 23390, a selective D1 antagonist. The residual cAMP activity declined with pretreatment time, and after 4-hr pretreatment, little residual cAMP production was observed. Cotreatment of SK-N-MC cells with SCH 23390 and A-77636 did not prevent residual cAMP production by A-77636. In contrast, A-81686 did not elicit residual cAMP production is SK-N-MC cells. Although A-77636 treated cells were devoid of agonist response 4 hr after drug removal, A-81686-treated cells exhibited significant cAMP response after drug removal. Preincubation of rat striatal membranes with A-77636 resulted in a large decrease in D1 receptor binding, despite repeated washings, whereas A-81686 pretreatment caused only a small reduction in D1 receptor binding. On the basis of the present data, we conclude that A-77636 dissociates slowly from the D1 receptor. The continued activation of the D1 receptor by A-77636 leads to inability of the receptor to recover its responsivity, which may explain its long duration of action and its ability to induce rapid behavioral tolerance in vivo.
Data were obtained from 46 healthy volunteers, 16 males and 30 females, lumbar punctured at the L4-5 level without strict bedrest prior to puncture. 18 ml of CSF was collected at the puncture, which was performed with a 0.9 mm diameter needle. Contradictory to previous reports, body height did not influence CSF 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) or homovanillic acid (HVA). Age influenced HVA (but not 5-HIAA) in a curvilinear manner in male volunteers and the HVA/5-HIAA ratio in females. In contrast to previously reported correlations between 5-HIAA and HVA, a weak correlation was found, but only in females. In males, body weight related to 5-HIAA and atmospheric pressure to HVA, both in a positive direction. Our findings are largely contradictory to previous reports, a fact that might, hypothetically, be due to the absence of strict bedrest before puncture. The use of a comparatively wide needle (0.9 mm in diameter) and the amount of 18 ml CSF drawn might, taken together, make at least some contribution to an explanation.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), SPECT imagining of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) has emphasized deficits in the posterior association cortex. Previous studies have shown an association between these deficits and cognitive performance, both on overall cognitive tests and more specific tests such as praxis and language. Frontal deficits have been reported in more severe patients. This has led to the conclusion that the deficit in AD, at least with functional neuroimaging, starts in the posterior association cortex, and later in the disease process &quot;spreads&quot; to involve the frontal cortex. This study set out to measure, in a group of AD patients, the change over time of cognitive performance and the pattern of functional deficit measured by neuroimaging. Change in function was measured using 99TCm-HMPAO and SPECT and change in cognitive function using the CAMCOG. Two time points were used, 0 and 2 years. Twenty-four patients satisfying the DSM-III R criteria for probable AD were studied, nine of whom were subsequently diagnosed as having AD at post-mortem. The most striking finding was the effect that decreases in frontal lobe function had on cognitive function. A similar study by the same group, using the same techniques and many of the same patients but at only one time point, showed a correlation between cognitive function and rCBF in the parietal and posterior temporal lobes. This suggests that as AD patients deteriorate from unaffected to mild or moderately affected, the posterior association cortex exerts the greatest effect on cognitive deficit. In this longitudinal study, we found, using a MANOVA, that there were significant decreases over time for all the cortical regions studied, but that no region decreased significantly more than any other. In addition we found a correlation between change in frontal rCBF and change in cognitive function (both overall cognitive function and the CAMCOG sub tests of language and praxis). These data suggest, in contrast to the previous study, that as the disease progresses from mild or moderate to moderate or severe, the frontal cortex exerts the greatest effect on cognitive decline. These data support the concept of the deficit in functional imaging spreading from posterior to anterior as the disease progresses. However, both the initial pattern of deficit and the change over time were very heterogeneous when examined qualitatively. A posterior to anterior spread is the predominant pattern for the group as a whole, but individual patients, and possibly groups of patients, may well show alternative patterns.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection has been associated with an increase in the binding of the transcription factor NF-kappa B to its consensus sequence in the viral promoter. Using cultures of primary human fetal astrocytes, we show that exogenous HIV-1 Tat protein, which has been demonstrated to be released from infected cells, is associated with an increase in the binding of this transcription factor to an HIV-1 long terminal repeat kappa B sequence. This effect occurs rapidly and is independent of new protein synthesis. We also demonstrate that extracellular Tat protein is associated with an increase in protein kinase C activity. If Tat functions similarly in other cell types, such findings could relate to some of this protein's previously described physiological effects. These effects include Tat's ability to upregulate the synthesis of specific cytokines and to act as a growth factor.
This study introduces an original testing method on facial skin sensation and describes the results obtained by its application to patients after orthognathic surgery. The alterations of skin sensation in lower lip and chin area were examined in 135 patients who had undergone orthognathic surgery, by application of electrical stimulation through an original pencil shaped probe. Detection threshold of the same area before surgery were used as control, and the location and size of the area with thresholds higher than control levels were measured. The control thresholds ranged from 0.13 mA to 0.21 mA. The higher threshold area was found in 86.3% of all the patients in 1 month after surgery, in 27.7% after 1 year. The threshold levels declined with the time, and in none of the patients the threshold level was higher than 1.0 mA more than 2 years after surgery. The patients whose threshold level was more than 1.0 mA in 1 month postoperatively showed a tendency to have the area with a threshold higher than the control level even 1 year later (p &lt; 0.0001). The threshold of the younger patients tended to improve smoothly than the older. In addition, the patients with a shorter set-back or advance distance had a slighter sensory disturbance and recovered more smoothly than those with a longer distance.
An experimental method and model are described to quantitate kinetics of in vivo incorporation of fatty acids (FA) into stable brain phospholipids. When a radiolabeled long-chain FA is injected intravenously in a rat, it rapidly equilibrates with brain FA-CoA, the precursor pool for phospholipids. As different labeled FA enter different sn positions of specific phospholipids, a combination of labels can be used to investigate roles of different phospholipids in brain function and structure. By taking into account dilution lambda of specific activity of brain FA-CoA, compared with specific activity of FA in plasma, half-lives of FA in individual brain phospholipids can be calculated. Values for lambda less than 0.02 suggest marked recycling, and give half-lives two orders of magnitude smaller than literature values. A half-life of arachidonate in phosphatidylinositol of 0.66 h (turnover = 105%h) is consistent with active participation of this FA in phospholipase A2 mediated signal transduction.
There is a growing body of evidence to suggest that thiamine neurochemistry is disrupted in Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Studies in autopsied brain tissue from neuropathologically proven AD patients reveal significantly reduced activities of the thiamine phosphate dephosphorylating enzymes thiamine diphosphatase (TDPase) and thiamine monophosphatase (TMPase) as well as the thiamine diphosphate-dependent enzymes, pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (alpha KGDH) and transketolase. Reductions in enzyme activities are present both in affected areas of AD brain as well as in relatively well conserved tissue. Decreased TDP concentrations and concomitantly increased TMP in autopsied brain tissue from AD patients and in CSF from patients with Dementia of the Alzheimer Type suggests that CNS thiamine phosphorylation-dephosphorylation mechanisms are disrupted in AD. alpha KGDH is a rate-limiting enzyme for cerebral glucose utilization and decreases in its activity are associated with lactic acidosis, cerebral energy failure and neuronal cell loss. Deficiencies of TDP-related metabolic processes could therefore participate in neuronal cell death mechanisms in AD.
Thiamine deficiency in humans is associated with Wernicke's encephalopathy (WE) which is characterized neuropathologically by neuronal loss in selective brain regions. Pyrithiamine-induced thiamine-deficiency in the rat results in lesions which are similar in nature and distribution to those seen in human WE. Several mechanisms have been implicated in the pathogenesis of neuronal loss in thiamine deficiency including, (i) impaired cerebral energy metabolism, (ii) focal lactic acidosis, (iii) NMDA-receptor mediated excitotoxicity and (iv) blood-brain barrier breakdown. WE is difficult to diagnose during life and a large number of cases are missed by routine clinical neurological evaluation. Recently, non-invasive diagnostic procedures such as CT and MRI have been used for the evaluation of acute and chronic WE. Autoradiographic studies reveal that increased densities of binding sites for the astrocytic ligand 3H-PK11195 closely parallel the topographic distribution of reactive gliosis and neuronal loss in selective brain regions of pyrithiamine-induced thiamine-deficient rats. In contrast, binding sites for the neuronal ligand 3H-Ro15-1788 show poor regional correlation with neuronal loss in thiamine deficiency. Both of these ligands are available, and have been used in PET assessment of various disorders in humans. The results of autoradiographic studies suggest that 11C-PK11195 may offer a useful PET ligand for the assessment of brain damage in WE in humans.
The site and regulation of neurotrophic factor release from neurons is poorly understood. We used a combination of model cell lines and primary culture systems to study the polarity of BDNF sorting and the regulation of its release from hippocampal neurons. Transfection and expression of a human BDNF cDNA in a mouse pituitary cell line, AtT20, resulted in the colocalization of BDNF with the secretory granule marker, chromogranin A. Furthermore, stimulation of these cells with 56 mM KCl or with 5 mM 8-bromo-cAMP increased the release of BDNF approximately 10-to 15-fold within 30 min. To study BDNF release from primary cultures of hippocampal neurons, cells were infected with a defective Herpes Simplex Viral (HSV) vector expressing human BDNF. Depolarizing conditions increased the release of BDNF 5-fold from these cells, further verifying that secretion is regulated. Immunocytochemical analysis using highly specific antibodies determined that endogenous BDNF was predominantly localized to the somatodentritic domain of hippocampal neurons. These findings support the view that BDNF functions as a target-derived signal for afferents to hippocampal pyramidal cells and that it may serve as a regulator of hippocampal plasticity.



Mutations in the STA gene at the Xq28 locus have been found in patients with X-linked Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD). This gene encodes a hitherto unknown protein named 'emerin'. To elucidate the subcellular localization of emerin, we raised two antisera against synthetic peptide fragments predicted from emerin cDNA. Using both antisera, we found positive nuclear membrane staining in skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles in the normal controls and in patients with neuromuscular diseases other than EDMD. In contrast, a deficiency in immunofluorescent staining of skeletal and cardiac muscle from EDMD patients was observed. A 34 kD protein is immunoreactive with the antisera--the protein is equivalent to that predicted for emerin. Together, our findings suggest the specific deficiency of emerin in the nuclear membrane of muscle cells in patients with EDMD.
Eyeblink classical conditioning (EBCC) is impared in rabbits and humans during normal aging and severely disrupted in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and older Down's Syndrome patients (called DS/AD). To determine if older rabbit brains developed neuropathological evidence of Alzheimer-like pathology to account for impaired EBCC, the cerebellum and hippocampus of behaviorally tested rabbits aged 3 months to 7 years were probed using immunohistochemical techniques. Significant cell loss and gliosis were observed in some brain regions, but there was little or no deposition of beta-amyloid (A beta) or abnormal tau accumulations in telencephalic neurons, even in rabbits over 7 years of age. Our aims here are to: 1) report the results of our search for Alzheimer-like neuropathology in aged rabbit brains; and 2) highlight similarities in the brain mechanisms for EBCC between rabbits and humans and, hence, the utility of studies of EBCC in rabbits as a model system for testing cognition-enhancing drugs.
We studied the release of [3H]D-aspartate evoked by glutamate receptor agonists from monolayer cultures of chick retina cells, and found that activation of the glutamate receptors can evoke both Ca(2+)-dependent and Ca(2+)-independent release of [3H]D-aspartate. In Ca(2+)-free (no added Ca2+) Na+ medium, the agonists of the glutamate receptors induced the release of [3H]D-aspartate with the following rank order of potency: kainate &gt; alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) approximately N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). In media containing 1 mM CaCl2 the release of [3H]D-aspartate evoked by NMDA, kainate and AMPA was increased by about 112 percent, 20 percent and 39 percent, respectively, as compared to the release evoked by the same agonists in Ca(2+)-free medium. NMDA was the most potent agonist in stimulating the Ca(2+)-dependent release of [3H]D-aspartate, possibly by exocytosis, and AMPA was as potent as kainate. The Ca(2+)-dependent release of [3H]D-aspartate evoked by kainate was dependent on the influx of Ca2+ through the receptor associated channel, as well as through the N-(omega-Conotoxin GVIA-sensitive) and L- (nitrendipine-sensitive) type voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels (VSCC). The exocytotic release of [3H]D-aspartate evoked by AMPA relied exclusively on Ca2+ entry through the L-type VSCC, whereas the effect of NMDA was partially mediated by the influx of Ca2+ through the receptor-associated channel, but not through L- or N-type VSCC. Thus, activation of these different glutamate receptors under physiological conditions is expected to cause the release of cytosolic and vesicular glutamate, and the routes of Ca2+ entry modulating vesicular release may be selectively recruited.
The regional distribution of NG-nitro-L-[(3)H]arginine (L-[(3)H]NOARG) binding to different regions of rat brain was studied by quantitative autoradiography. These studies revealed highest density of binding sites in cerebellum, anterior olfactory nucleus, islands of Calleja and substantia nigra with appreciable binding site densities in inferior colliculus, superior colliculus, olfactory tubercle and dorsal tegmental nucleus. The regional distribution of L-[(3)H]NOARG binding, is in good agreement with the distribution of nitric oxide synthase studied previously by NADPH-diaphorase staining and immunohistochemistry using antibodies against neuronal nitric oxide synthase. The kinetics of L-[(3)H]NOARG binding to the cytosolic preparations of cerebral cortex, cerebellum, hippocampus and striatum was studied using an in vitro binding technique. Specific L-[(3)H]NOARG binding was of nanomolar affinity, saturable, and best fit to a single-site model in all four brain regions. These studies support the potential use of L-[(3)H]NOARG binding as a tool for further elucidation of the regional distribution and functional properties of NOS in the central nervous system.
The effect of chlormethiazole on hemispheric swelling and cortical tissue water content has been investigated in a model of permanent middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. Chlormethiazole (1 mmol/kg i.p.) or saline was administered 60 min after the induction of ischaemia and the animals sacrificed after 24 hours. The cross sectional area of the left hemisphere was increased by 21.8 + 1.9% in saline treated rats, but only by 8.4 + 2.4% in chlormethiazole treated rats. However, the reduction in the absolute area of neurodegenerative damage (mm2) following chlormethiazole administration was considerably greater than the reduction in hemispheric swelling. Cortical tissue water content of ischaemic brain increased from 76.4% to 84.2% and this was attenuated to 78.8% by chlormethiazole administration. These data demonstrate that, providing damage is measured by fitting tissue slices onto prematched stereotactic maps, the decrease in oedema which accompanies a decrease in neurodegeneration does not result in erroneous estimates of neuroprotection.
Oxotremorine-M stimulated [35S]GTP gamma S binding was used to assess acetylcholine muscarinic M2 receptor mediated G-protein function in superior frontal cortical, superior temporal cortical and hippocampal membranes from a series of Alzheimer's disease and matched control subjects. No significant differences were seen in basal [35S]GTP gamma S binding between the groups. The maximal level of oxotremorine-M stimulated [35S]GTP gamma S binding over basal was significantly increased in Alzheimer's disease superior temporal cortex, suggesting an enhanced muscarinic M2 receptor-G-protein coupling efficiency in this region. In contrast, the maximal level of oxotremorine-M stimulated [35S]GTP gamma S binding over basal was unaltered in Alzheimer's disease superior frontal cortex and significantly reduced in Alzheimer's disease hippocampus. Western immunoblotting using antisera towards the alpha-subunits of those G-protein types known to couple muscarinic receptors, revealed that Gq alpha and Gi alpha, but not G(o) alpha, levels were significantly reduced in Alzheimer's disease superior temporal cortex. Neither Gq alpha, Gi alpha, nor G(o) alpha levels were significantly altered in Alzheimer's disease superior frontal cortex or hippocampus. These results suggest that the efficacy of muscarinic M2 receptor G-protein coupling shows regional selective changes in Alzheimer's disease postmortem brain with deficits occurring only in a region that shows severe pathology.
To gain insight into the role of microglia in the formation of senile plaques (SP), especially in the generation of the two major molecular species of amyloid beta protein (A beta) with different carboxyl (C)-termini, A beta 40 and A beta 42(43), we conducted double immunolabelling studies on tissue sections from the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and non-demented aged individuals using antibodies to the C-termini of A beta and ferritin, a marker for microglia. All SP were A beta 42(43)-positive in AD as well as in non-demented individuals, only a proportion of which were A beta 40-positive. Both in AD and in non-demented individuals, approximately 2/3 of the A beta 40-positive SP were typical SP with amyloid cores, these being almost invariably associated with microglia. A beta 40-positive, uncored SP were also frequently associated with microglia (mean, 74%), whereas only 24% of A beta 40-negative, uncored SP contained microglia. These results suggest that microglia may play a role in the maturation of SP, especially in the generation of A beta 40.
We diagnosed a unique peroxisomal disorder in a 32-year-old man with profound mental retardation, mild facial dysmorphism, retinal pigmentary degeneration, seizures, and sensorineural deafness. Although plasma very-long-chain fatty acid profile suggested X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, marked reduction in fibroblast lignoceric acid oxidation and the presence of cytosolic catalase were consistent with Zellweger syndrome (ZS). Unlike ZS, functional peroxisomes were present as indicated by the density of peroxisomes (1.175 gm/ml) similar to peroxisomes from control cells and by partial deficiencies of fibroblast phytanic acid oxidation and dihydroxyacetone phosphate acyltransferase activity. These findings indicate that this patient has a previously undescribed group 3 peroxisomal disorder (multiple peroxisomal enzyme deficiencies with preserved peroxisomes).
We studied 50 patients with the merosin-positive form of congenital muscular dystrophy (MP-CMD) clinically and pathologically. The frequency of MP-CMD in our laboratory was approximately one-half that of the Fukuyama type and one-sixth that of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. The early signs of MP-CMD included decreased fetal movement during pregnancy (14%) and poor suck (42%), floppiness (30%), and respiratory difficulty (16%) in early infancy. Eighty-six percent of the patients had delayed motor development. Ninety-two percent of the patients followed beyond age 4 years had learned to walk. The disease was relatively slowly progressive, except in six patients who rapidly lost ambulation. Almost all patients had normal IQ, except four who were mildly to moderately retarded. Of the patients examined by cranial CT/MRI, 24% showed cerebral atrophy and 11% had areas of white matter lucency. Muscle biopsy results in those younger than 5 years showed mild dystrophic changes consisting of variation in fiber size and scattered necrotic and regenerating fibers. In older children, there were additional chronic dystrophic changes, including fiber splitting (32%), moth-eaten appearance (32%), marked fatty replacement (46%), and abnormal fiber type distribution (59%). The manifestations of MP-CMD were generally milder and more slowly progressive than those of the Fukuyama type and merosin-negative form of congenital muscular dystrophy.
To test whether glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) regulates the development of nigral dopaminergic neurons in vivo, neonatal rats received bilateral injections of GDNF into the striatum. Injections at postnatal day 2 induced a unique transient behavioral pattern characterized by forelimb hyperflexure, clawed toes of all limbs, and a kinked tail. Parallel to the behavioral changes, the levels of striatal and ventral mesencephalic dopamine and serotonin were increased from 60% to 100% with a proportional increase of principal metabolite levels. GDNF increased tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the ventral mesencephalon, but did not affect striatal activity of choline acetyltransferase and GABA uptake. GDNF failed to induce sprouting of dopaminergic neurites. Our findings suggest that during development striatal GDNF regulates the capacity of dopaminergic and of serotonergic neurons for neurotransmitter production and release.
The functional relevance of the dopamine D3 receptor is still unresolved, largely because of the absence of selective D3 receptor ligands. In the present study we have examined the in vivo profile of (+)-PD 128907, a potent and functionally selective D3 receptor agonist. Low doses of (+)-PD 128907 reduced spontaneous locomotor activity in the rat (ED50 = 13 +/- 3 micrograms/kg, s.c.) a response which was comparable with the non-selective D2,3 receptor agonist apomorphine (ED50 = 13 +/- 1.6 micrograms/kg, s.c.). In addition (+)-PD 128907 impaired prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response, with significant effects observed at doses of 30 micrograms/kg when appropriate prepulse intensities were used. Higher doses reversed gamma-butyrolactone-induced catecholamine synthesis (ED50 = 95 +/- 22 and 207 +/- 37 micrograms/kg in accumbens and striatum respectively) and induced yawning (100-300 micrograms/kg), penile grooming (30-1000 micrograms/kg) and sniffing (&gt; or = 300 micrograms/kg) although doses 3- to 10-fold greater than apomorphine were required to produce maximal effects. In contrast to apomorphine, however, (+)-PD 128907 failed to induce intense stereotyped licking and biting in the rat. In view of the potency and selectivity of (+)-PD 128907 for the D3 receptor, a role in the control of locomotor activity is suggested. In addition, the observation that (+)-PD 128907 disrupts prepulse inhibition, a phenomenon which is also impaired in schizophrenic subjects, may indicate the pathological importance of this receptor subtype.
The delayed therapeutic effects of neuroleptics have been attributed to D2-mediated depolarization inactivation (DI) of mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons and concomitant reduction in dopamine release. Several studies have suggested, however, that DI may not reduce dopamine release and have hypothesized that this is due to increased impulse independent release. To examine the mechanisms that modulate dopamine release during DI, tetrodotoxin (TTX) was infused into the left medial forebrain bundle (MFB) of Sprague Dawley rats. Three-methoxytyramine (3-MT) levels 10 minutes after pargyline (75 mg/kg) were used as a measure of dopamine release. A dose response study showed that infusions of 10(-5) mol/L and 10(-4) mol/L TTX reduced 3-MT levels on the infused side by 70% in the striatum and 50% to 60% in the nucleus accumbens. In a time course study, 10(-5) mol/L TTX reduced striatal 3-MT at 30, 90, and 120 minutes. After intraperitoneal injections of haloperidol (0.4 mg/kg) for 1 or 21 days, TTX infusions again reduced 3-MT levels by approximately 70% in the striatum and 53% to 59% in the nucleus accumbens on the infused side. Acute and chronic haloperidol treatment did not alter the percent of TTX-induced reductions. These data suggest that dopaminergic neuronal impulse flow modulates similar amounts of total transmitter release after both acute and chronic haloperidol treatment. The results do not support the notion that DI mediates the antipsychotic effects of neuroleptics by markedly reducing total basal dopamine release or increasing impulse independent release. Alternatively, DI could reduce psychotic symptoms by changing the responsiveness of the dopamine system to external stimuli or by reducing synaptic dopamine levels that have been hypothesized to be elevated in psychotic patients.
The &quot;paradigm shift&quot; in the title of this article refers to molecular biology. The real challenge to molecular biologists interested in applying their methods to an understanding of psychiatric disorders involves the development of models that account for gene/environment/development interaction. Because of the existence of homologous animal models of addictive disorders, as well as a rich body of clinical observations and clinical and behavioral research, and recent data suggesting that chronic exposure to addictive drugs results in changes in gene expression in neurons from behaviorally relevant brain regions, addictive disorders offer a serendipitous model (to molecular biologists) that may have relevance to subsequent application in other areas of psychiatry and psychology.
Gender difference in analgesia produced by the kappa-opiate pentazocine was investigated in a model of post-operative dental pain. In a recent study [Gordon et al., Neuroscience, 69 (1995) 345-349.] evaluating interaction between the GABAB agonist baclofen and opiates with respect to postoperative analgesia we found that females receiving pentazocine for the treatment of postoperative pain showed better analgesia than did males receiving similar treatment. To follow-up this result, we evaluated for the effect of gender on analgesia produced by pentazocine administered to participants not receiving another experimental medication. The analgesic response to pentazocine in ten females was compared to that in eight males. All participants were administered pentazocine after undergoing surgery for the removal of impacted third molars. We confirm our previous finding that pentazocine produces significantly greater analgesia in females than in males; no significant difference was observed in analgesia among females in different phases of the menstrual cycle.
To determine if inhibition of a Ca(2+)-dependent slow afterhyperpolarization (AHPslow) contributes to prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)-induced sensitization of DRG neurons, we have used patch-clamp electrophysiological techniques on cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons from the adult rat. In support of a role for AHPslow in sensitization of DRG neurons, we demonstrate that: (1) AHPslow expression is restricted to a subpopulation of putative nociceptors; (2) burst duration is controlled by AHPslow in these neurons; and (3) in some neurons, PGE2 decreases AHPslow and produces a concomitant increase in the number of action potentials generated in response to depolarizing current injection. However, our results also demonstrate that AHPslow modulation is not sufficient to explain PGE2-induced sensitization in the majority of DRG neurons because: (1) the size of the population of DRG neurons expressing AHPslow is less than half the size of the population of DRG neurons sensitized by PGE2; (2) PGE2 produces a decrease in action potential threshold as well as an increase in the number of action potentials in response to current injection, while inhibition of AHPslow has little effect on threshold; and (3) the sensitizing effects of PGE2 are dissociated from its effects on AHPslow in more than half of neurons tested. We conclude that PGE2-induced sensitization must involve the modulation of ionic currents in addition to that underlying AHPslow.
Rats that had been prenatally exposed to either cocaine or saline were examined as adults using continuous reinforcement (FR1) cocaine self-administration. Initially these rats were water-deprived and trained to bar-press for water; no differences across prenatal treatments were observed during this training phase. After complete rehydration and implantation of an intravenous cannula into the external jugular vein, animals were introduced to cocaine self-administration with a nocturnal and subsequent 3 h exposure. During daily test sessions rats were allowed to self-administer cocaine for 1 h/day. Prenatal cocaine exposure led to a marked and stable enhancement of the rates of self-administration for up to 13 days, the longest time point examined. These results suggest that prenatal cocaine exposure can alter cocaine reinforcement in adult animals.
Changes in muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mACh-R) binding and muscarinic cholinergic m1 receptor (m1-R) mRNA levels were determined in a rat model of cerebral hypoperfusion in which hypoperfusion was induced by permanent bilateral occlusion of the common carotid arteries. After 6 weeks of hypoperfusion, mACh-R binding activity was significantly reduced in the frontal cortex (79.0 percent, P &lt;0.01), striatum (74.2 percent, P &lt; 0.01) and hippocampus (78.6 percent, P &lt; 0.01), and the m1-R mRNA levels in the frontal cortex (86.6 percent, P &lt; 0.05) and striatum (89.4 percent, P &lt; 0.05) compared with sham-operated control. Repeated administration of bifemelane hydrochloride (15 mg/kg/day, p.o., once a day from the day of operation for 6 weeks) prevented the hypoperfusion-induced loss of mACh-R binding and m1-R mRNA levels above described. Since the central cholinergic systems play an important role in learning and memory, these findings suggest that bifemelane hydrochloride is useful to treat and/or prevent vascular dementia which is closely related to cerebral hypoperfusion.
One of the most common symptoms of patients with oligodendrogliomas is the high frequency of epileptic seizures. We thus studied the physiological properties of cells in six human oligodendrogliomas and two oligoastrocytomas obtained from surgical material. The majority of tumor cells in living brain slices can generate action potentials as recorded with the patch-clamp technique indicating that this tissue is dominated by electrically excitable cells. In cultures from the same material, the action potential generating cells prevail within the first days and are subsequently replaced by electrically inexcitable cells. From histopathological and immunohistochemical data, the histogenesis of human oligodendroglial tumor is still uncertain. Our physiological study has not settled the debate on the origin of these tumors but revealed important findings with regard to this question. Since action potential generating glial cells have not been described in situ so far their occurrence in oligodendroglial tumors implies that oligodendroglial tumor cells may belong to the neuronal cell lineage.
Astrocyte hypertrophy and swelling occur in a variety of pathophysiological conditions, including diseases associated with hyperammonemia. Ammonia is rapidly incorporated into glutamine by glutamine synthetase localized in astrocytes. We tested the hypotheses that (1) 6 h of hyperammonemia (500-600 microM) is adequate for producing astrocyte enlargement, and (2) astrocyte enlargement is attenuated by inhibition of glutamine synthetase with methionine sulfoximine. Pentobarbital-anesthetized rats received an intravenous infusion of either sodium or ammonium acetate after intraperitoneal pretreatment with vehicle, methionine sulfoximine (0.8 mmol/kg) or buthionine sulfoximine (4 mmol/kg), an analogue that does not inhibit glutamine synthetase. Hyperammonemia produced enlarged cortical astrocytes characterized by (1) decreased electron density of cytoplasmic matrix in perikaryon, processes and perivascular endfeet, (2) increased circumference of nuclear membrane, (3) increased numbers of mitochondria and rough and smooth endoplasmic reticulum in perikarya and large processes, and (4) less compact bundles of intermediate filaments. Pretreatment with methionine sulfoximine, but not buthionine sulfoximine, attenuated the decrease in cytoplasmic density and the increase in nuclear circumference; most perivascular endfeet remained as dense as occurred with sodium acetate infusion. However, increased numbers of organelles in expanded perikarya and large processes occurred after methionine sulfoximine treatment with and without ammonium acetate infusion. In separate groups of rats, hyperammonemia produced an increase in cortical tissue water content which was inhibited by methionine sulfoximine, but not buthionine sulfoximine. We conclude that clinically-relevant levels of hyperammonemia can cause astrocyte enlargement within 6 h in vivo characterized by both watery cytoplasm and increased organelles indicative of a cellular metabolic stress and altered astrocyte function. The watery cytoplasm component of astrocyte enlargement depends on glutamine synthesis rather than on ammonium ions per se, and is possibly caused by the osmotic effect accumulated glutamine.
We have recently reported a new protocol for inducing long-term depression through activation of GABAA receptors in the hippocampal site. This long-term depression is reversed by bicuculline and potentiated by neurosteroids such as alphaxalone and 5 alpha-pregnan-3 alpha-ol-20-one. It was also shown that glutamate receptor activity is not involved in the induction of this type of long-term depression. The present study investigates the role of calcium in the induction of this novel form of long-term depression and attempts to determine the mechanism of reversal of muscimol-induced long-term depression. Extracellular recordings were made in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer of rat hippocampal slices following orthodromic stimulation of Schaffer collateral fibres in stratum radiatum (0.01 Hz). It was observed that the muscimol-induced long-term depression can be obtained in the absence of calcium in the bathing medium. In addition to this, the long-term depression was reversed by N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainic acid, high potassium medium, veratrine and the calcium ionophore A23187 but not high calcium (10 mM) medium. High potassium medium in the absence of calcium reversed the long-term depression induced by muscimol 10 microM. The results suggest that this type of glutamate-independent long-term depression can be induced in the absence of extracellular calcium. Extracellular calcium is not necessary for reversal of the long-term depression, although when intracellular calcium levels are raised, as by A23187, this is capable of inducing reversal.
By sampling simultaneously from two microdialysis probes placed in the left and right hindlimb somatosensory cortex, or in the somatosensory and visual or in the somatosensory and motor cortices, we compared the release of acetylcholine in functionally different regions. Samples were taken hourly from freely moving, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats for periods of 10-24h. A generalized increase in acetylcholine release occurred in all cortical regions with the transition to the night-time period of wakefulness and activity; however, the change was significantly greater in the two sensory regions (56%) than in the motor cortex (20%). Decrements in release during the active period seldom decreased the amount released below the values observed during sleep. During the active period, the amount of acetylcholine released in the somatosensory cortex was strongly correlated with the amount released in the contralateral somatosensory region and was only slightly less well correlated with the amount released in either the visual or motor cortex. The correlation between release in the somatosensory and motor cortex was not present during the day, when rats habitually sleep. These data confirm that a global change in the level of acetylcholine release occurs with a transition in behavioural state; however, because the change is not equal in all areas and, because the correlation between motor and sensory cortex can be uncoupled, it seems likely that there are additional mechanisms available for independent control of acetylcholine release within specific cortical regions.
The molecular basis for transient expression of acetylcholinesterase in noncholinergic regions of the early postnatal rat brain was studied by in situ hybridization histochemistry. A 33P-labelled 63-mer DNA oligonucleotide was used to probe acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA in the brains of rat pups at one, two, six, nine, 12, 16 and 21 days of age (birth = day 0). Cryostat brain-sections were hybridized with probe and exposed to X-ray film or emulsion coatings. Acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA was quantitated by counting silver grains and by measuring X-ray film density with video imaging and computer-based densitometry. Adjacent sections were stained histochemically for acetylcholinesterase activity, also quantitated by video densitometry. Overall there was a significant correlation between apparent levels of acetylcholinesterase activity and acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA. Increases in message tended to accompany the surges of acetylcholinesterase activity that marked the maturation of thalamocortical sensory relay pathways. Acetylcholinesterase expression in the youngest rats was generally sparse but it increased markedly during the first postnatal week, especially in the sensory relay nuclei of the thalamus. Levels of message and enzyme activity in the medial and dorsolateral geniculate and the ventral posteromedial and ventral posterolateral nuclei rose to a peak, typically about day 9. Beyond this time there was a gradual decline. By day 21 the staining and in situ hybridization patterns resembled those in adult brains, whose thalamic relay nuclei are impoverished in acetylcholinesterase activity and messenger RNA. Thus, acetylcholinesterase expression is strongly modulated in certain thalamic systems as they undergo neural morphogenesis.
In this study, the regulation of hypothalamic oxytocin and vasopressin messenger RNA expression following the induction of seizures was investigated by in situ hybridization. Following kainic acid-induced seizures, a significant increase in oxytocin messenger RNA in the paraventricular nucleus was demonstrated at 1.5 h, one and two weeks; its level decreased at three weeks and was significantly increased again at four weeks; at eight weeks the messenger RNA level still remained higher than that of controls. Vasopressin messenger RNA in the paraventricular nucleus was increased significantly only at 1.5 h following induction of seizures. The oxytocin messenger RNA level in the supraoptic nucleus was also increased early at 1.5 h and later at four weeks following seizures; however, these increases did not last as long as those in the paraventricular nucleus. Vasopressin messenger RNA in the supraoptic nucleus was also increased after the initial seizures; however, its messenger RNA level vacillated up and down throughout the post-seizure times studied. The earliest significant increase of vasopressin messenger RNA was at one week after seizures, and there was a late significant increase of vasopressin messenger RNA at three weeks after seizures. The present study demonstrates that following kainic acid-induced seizures both, the oxytocin and vasopressin messenger RNA expressions, were up-regulated and these up-regulations were long-term events. The increase of oxytocin messenger RNA in the paraventricular nucleus was more persistent than the others. The pattern of messenger RNA up-regulation was different for oxytocin and vasopressin, and different in the paraventricular nucleus and supraoptic nucleus. These different patterns of messenger RNA elevations suggest that the different components of the rat hypothalamus were regulated differentially by kainic acid-induced seizures.
The neurophysiological effects of ionophoretic application of the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (1S,3R)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid on the firing rate of single suprachiasmatic nucleus cells was studied in a hypothalamic slice preparation. In addition, the effects of the phenylglycine derivative (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine, a selective metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, on responses evoked by (1S,3R)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid and N-methyl-D-aspartate were assessed. (1S,3R)-1-Amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid elicited current-dependent increases in neuronal activity in 65% of all suprachiasmatic nucleus cells studied, while N-methyl-D-aspartate activated 93% of the same cells. Cells in the ventrolateral suprachiasmatic nucleus were more sensitive to (1S,3R)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid application (82% of cells activated) than those in the dorsomedial suprachiasmatic nucleus (28% of cells activated). In addition, responses evoked by (1S,3R)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid in the ventrolateral suprachiasmatic nucleus had a rapid onset and a prolonged recovery from agonist application, whereas responses elicited in the dorsomedial suprachiasmatic nucleus were slower in onset and recovered more quickly from agonist application. Co-application of (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine selectivity attenuated (1S,3R)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid-evoked responses but had no effect on N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked activity in the same cells. These results indicate that (1S,3R)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid application activates single cells in the hamster suprachiasmatic nucleus and these responses are selectively attenuated by (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine. Cells in the ventrolateral suprachiasmatic nucleus are more sensitive to (1S,3R)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid application than those in the dorsomedial suprachiasmatic nucleus. These results are the first demonstration that metabotropic glutamate receptors can modulate spontaneous neuronal activity within the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the predominant mammalian circadian pacemaker.
The present study was performed in rats with experimental mononeuropathy after left common sciatic nerve constriction. A bilateral decrease in hindpaw withdrawal latency to thermal and mechanical stimulation was observed after unilateral ligation of the left common sciatic nerve; however, it was more pronounced on the lesioned side. Compared with sham-operated rats, the content of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity was significantly decreased in the left dorsal horn of the spinal cord and left dorsal root ganglia in rats with mononeuropathy. Blocking the receptor of calcitonin gene-related peptide, by intrathecal injection of 5 or 10 nmol of calcitonin gene-related peptide (8-37), induced a significant bilateral increase in hindpaw withdrawal latency to both thermal and mechanical stimulation which, however, was significantly less pronounced in mononeuropathic rats than in intact rats. The effect of calcitonin gene-related peptide (8-37) was reversed by intrathecal administration of the opioid antagonist naloxone. The contribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide and its receptors to transmission of presumed nociceptive information appears to be reduced in the sciatic nerve constriction model. The decrease in reflex responsiveness induced by calcitonin gene-related peptide (8-37) was counteracted by naloxone, indicating that opioids control the net effect of excitation in the spinal cord circuitry induced by calcitonin gene-related peptide and possibly other co-released neurotransmitters.
Chronic experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (CEAE) is a well-established animal model for the human syndrome, multiple sclerosis. CEAE has striking histological, electrophysiological and clinical analogies with multiple sclerosis and is a valuable animal model for the preclinical pharmacotherapeutical development of new putative therapeutic agents. In this paper, we describe a neurotrophic repair approach in Lewis rats suffering from CEAE. The neurotrophic peptide used is a degradation resistant adrenocorticotrophic hormone4-9 analog. The development of CEAE was examined using a combination of clinical, functional and electrophysiological parameters including somatosensory and motor evoked potentials. The latencies and amplitudes of the various evoked potentials can provide quantitative, objective data regarding the involvement of different nerve tracts in CEAE and the effectiveness of the neurotrophic peptide. Repeated subcutaneous injections of the neurotrophic peptide suppressed the development of CEAE-related clinical symptoms, markedly improved motor performance and reduced the reaction time upon thermal stimulation as compared to saline-treated CEAE animals during a 17 week follow-up study. Prolonged onset latencies of corticomotor evoked potentials and peak latencies of somatosensory evoked potentials due to the demyelination were normalized upon peptide treatment. In addition, peptide treatment substantially prevented total blocking of the corticomotor pathway in CEAE-animals and reduced the attenuation of sensory evoked potentials-related peak amplitudes as compared to saline-treated animals. The functional and electrophysiological improvements observed in CEAE-animals treated with the adrenocorticotrophic hormone4-9 analog, suggest that a neurotrophic repair approach could be of great value to promote the restoration of function in a disabling demyelinating disorder.
The growth-associated protein-43/B-50 (B-50/GAP-43) is conveyed from the neuronal soma into the axon by fast axonal transport and moved to the nerve terminal. To visualize and determine the type of vesicles by which B-50/GAP-43 is anterogradely transported in the regenerating rat sciatic nerve, we have investigated Lowicryl HM20 embedded nerve pieces dissected from the proximal side of a collection ligature. Ultrastructurally, numerous vesicular profiles of various sizes, tubules and mitochondria were seen to accumulate proximal to the collection ligature. Both, in unmyelinated and myelinated axons, B-50/GAP-43 immunoreactivity was associated with vesicular profiles which had a diameter of 50 nm. A fraction of the B-50/GAP-43 label co-localized with the small vesicle marker synaptophysin. Co-localization of B-50/GAP-43 was not detected with the large dense-core vesicle marker calcitonin gene-related peptide. These results indicate that, in rat sciatic nerve axons, B-50/GAP-43 is anterogradely transported in small 50 nm vesicles of the constitutive pathway. These transport vesicles were distinguished in two types. We suggest that one type carrying, both, B-50 GAP-43 and synaptophysin has as destination the nerve terminal, whereas the second type, which only contains B-50/GAP-43 and no synaptophysin, may be primarily targeted to the axolemma for local membrane fusion.
In situ hybridization for regulated endocrine-specific protein-18 messenger RNA showed a distinct and limited pattern of expression in the hypothalamus, midline thalamus, amygdala and hippocampus of the rat. High levels of regulated endocrine-specific protein-18 messenger RNA were found in the magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular, supraoptic and accessory nuclei, in the neurons of the periventricular, medial tuberal, arcuate, lateral and perifornical nuclei, infundibular stalk, and in the ventrolateral division of the ventromedial nucleus and compact division of the dorsomedial nucleus. Lower levels of regulated endocrine-specific protein-18 messenger RNA were found in the parvocellular divisions of the paraventricular nucleus as well as in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, median preoptic nucleus, medial preoptic nucleus, medial and lateral preoptic areas, subfornical organ, suprachiasmatic nucleus, anterior hypothalamic area, zona incerta, ventromedial nucleus, dorsomedial nucleus and tuber cinereum. Regulated endocrine-specific protein-18 messenger RNA was also found in thalamic structures including the paraventricular, central medial, intermediodorsal, anterodorsal, rhomboid and reticular nuclei. Signal was also identified in the medial and lateral habenula, in the central, medial, basomedial and anterior cortical nuclei of the amygdala, and in the CA1-CA3 and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Dopamine may regulate regulated endocrine-specific protein-18 expression in the CNS because (i) regulated endocrine-specific protein-18 was originally identified in melanotropes based on its regulation by dopaminergic agents and (ii) many of the nuclei that contain regulated endocrine-specific protein-18 also receive dopaminergic input. The localization of regulated endocrine-specific protein-18 in the diencephalon suggests that regulated endocrine-specific protein-18 is involved in regulation of limbic and autonomic function, neuroendocrine control of salt and water balance, reproductive function and feeding behavior.
The mutant mice tottering, leaner and the compound heterozygous tottering/leaner exhibit varying degrees of several abnormal neurological phenotypes including petit mal-like epilepsy, ataxia and an intermittent myoclonus-like movement disorder. Aberrant expression of tyrosine hydroxylase in cerebellar Purkinje cells of tottering, leaner and tottering/leaner mice has been observed previously [Austin M. C. et al. (1992) Molec. Brain Res. 15, 227-240; Hess E. J. and Wilson M. C. (1991) Neuron 6, 123-132]. In the present study, the distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase expression was compared with that of Zebrin II in Purkinje cells of adult homozygous tottering and compound heterozygous tottering/leaner mutant mice using single and double immunocytochemistry and double immunofluorescence. The pattern of Zebrin II expression in the cerebella of the mutant mice was identical to that described for normal mice [Hawkes R. et al. (1985) Brain Res. 333, 359-365; Hawkes R. and Leclerc N. (1987) J. comp. Neurol. 256, 29-41]. In addition, sections through tottering and tottering/leaner cerebella demonstrated an exact correspondence between the bands of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity and bands of Zebrin II immunoreactivity. Similarly, the compartments of the Purkinje cell layer which were negative for Zebrin II staining were also negative for tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. This study provides evidence that the cerebellar Purkinje cells of tottering and tottering/leaner mice were able to express a normal gene product, Zebrin II, in a normal spatial pattern and the same Purkinje cells can also express an aberrant gene product, tyrosine hydroxylase. This abnormal gene expression may indicate that at least some Purkinje cells in these mutant mice are not functioning normally. This possibility, taken together with the morphological changes observed in many mutant Purkinje cell axons, suggests that Purkinje cell function could be altered in tottering and tottering/leaner mice, thereby contributing to the neurological abnormalities exhibited by these mice. It is also possible that alteration in function of mutant Purkinje cells could correlate with the rostrocaudal zonation pattern described in this study.
We investigated the innervation of the caudal ventrolateral medulla by the midbrain periaqueductal gray in the rat using retrograde and anterograde tract-tracing. Iontophoretic injection of Fluoro-Gold or cholera toxin B subunit into the caudal ventrolateral medulla resulted in retrogradely labeled neurons in discrete regions of the periaqueductal gray. These labeled cells were observed throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the periaqueductal gray and were distributed (as percentage of total labeled cells) in its lateral (53-67%), ventrolateral (14-28%), ventromedial (7-16%) and dorsomedial aspects (7-10%). About 70-72% of labeled cells were found in the caudal half of the periaqueductal gray and 28-30% in the rostral half. In the ventromedial periaqueductal gray, more labeled cells were seen in the contralateral side (5-13%) than the ipsilateral side (2-3%), whereas for other periaqueductal gray areas labeling was preferentially ipsilateral. Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin anterograde tracing was used to confirm the retrograde labeling results. Following iontophoretic injection into the periaqueductal gray, labeled fibers and terminals were observed throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the caudal ventrolateral medulla. Injections in the lateral and/or ventrolateral aspect of the periaqueductal gray yielded more anterograde labeling in the ipsilateral than the contralateral caudal ventrolateral medulla, while injections in the ventromedial aspect of the periaqueductal gray produced labeling preferentially in the contralateral caudal ventrolateral medulla. The present study indicates that specific regions of the periaqueductal gray project to the caudal ventrolateral medulla and may regulate cardiovascular and respiratory functions through these connections.
Norepinephrine-containing fibres in the medial prefrontal cortex derive from the locus coeruleus, a brainstem nucleus which also receives a dense innervation of enkephalin-immunoreactive axon terminals. We combined immunogold-silver labelling of retrogradely transported FluoroGold from the medial prefrontal cortex with immunoperoxidase detection of leucine5-enkephalin in the same section of tissue through the locus coeruleus of adult rats. This dual-labelling experiment was conducted to determine whether axon terminals containing lecuine5-enkephalin target neurons in the locus coeruleus that project to the frontal cortex and, if so, what are their morphological characteristics. By light microscopy, enkephalin-labelled processes overlapped FluoroGold retrogradely labelled neurons in the locus coeruleus. By electron microscopy, retrogradely labelled perikarya and dendrites were commonly enveloped by astrocytic processes and received few afferents in the plane of section examined. However, at sites unoccupied by glial processes, abundant afferent input could be identified. In addition, some FluoroGold-labelled perikarya and dendrites lacked this glial ensheathment but were more frequently apposed by axon terminals. Of 163 FluoroGold-labelled perikarya and dendrites examined where enkephalin immunoreactivity was present in the neuropil, 42% were contacted by enkephalin-immunoreactive axon terminals. The peroxidase-labelled enkephalin terminals as well as the unlabelled terminals often contained both small, clear and large dense core vesicles. Both labelled and unlabelled terminals also formed primary symmetric synapses characteristic of inhibitory transmitters with retrogradely labelled perikarya and proximal dendrites. At times, more than one enkephalin-labelled terminal was found to converge on a common retrogradely labelled perikarya or dendrite. These results demonstrate cellular sites where enkephalin-containing afferents may directly modulate and most likely inhibit the activity of cortically projecting neurons in the locus coeruleus.
Experimental manipulations that compromise the medial septal area consistently and selectively impair working memory. The electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of medial septal neurons have been studied extensively, but the relation between medial septal neuronal activity and ongoing behavior has not been systematically analysed. Working memory was assessed in a continuous conditional discrimination task, and behavioral performance was correlated with medial septal single unit activity. Operant performance and the activity of rhythmically active neurons were continuously monitored during a 90 min test session, and peri-event time histograms of unit activity were constructed around relevant task events. Rats received intraperitoneal injections of either saline or ethanol (0.75 g/kg) 5 min before testing. Of the 52 medial septal neurons recorded under saline conditions, approximately 80% had significant behavioral correlates. Thirty-five per cent of these neurons were selectively activated at the time of the response and 65% at the time of the reward. Response-related activity was not selective for responses to the right or left lever, or to a particular type of trial, but in 61% of the cases was correlated with the accuracy of the response. In ethanol-treated rats, working memory was impaired, single unit activity was disrupted, and the behavioral correlates were less frequent and robust, especially the response-related correlates that were accuracy-sensitive. The results suggest that the medial septal area is involved in guiding accurate responses and processing rewards, and may contribute to the ethanol-induced impairments in working memory.
Rats chronically administered with ethanol every six hours for six consecutive days show, upon suspension of treatment, a marked somatic withdrawal syndrome characterized by classical neurological signs. The emergence of the behavioral syndrome coincides with a profound decline of dopaminergic mesolimbic neuronal activity which corresponds to a reduction of dopamine outflow in the nucleus accumbens [Diana et al. (1993) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 90, 7966-7969]. However, while the behavioral manifestation of the ethanol withdrawal syndrome recedes in about 48 h, electrophysiological indices of mesolimbic dopaminergic function are still reduced 72 h after ethanol discontinuation, thus outlasting the physical signs of ethanol withdrawal syndrome. Dopaminergic neuronal activity is reintegrated by anti-craving drugs such as ethanol itself and gamma-hydroxybutyric acid. It is postulated that the reduced spontaneous activity of mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons may form the neural basis of the dysphoric state which accompanies abrupt interruption of chronic ethanol administration. Pharmacological manipulations of dopaminergic activity targeted at restoring &quot;normal&quot; dopaminergic function after ethanol withdrawal may lead to way to the experimental basis of new therapeutic strategies of alcoholism.
Burst firing of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta can be induced in vitro by the glutamate agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate. It has been suggested that the interburst hyperpolarization is due to Na+ extrusion by a ouabain-sensitive pump [Johnson et al. (1992) Science 258, 665-667]. We formulate and explore a theoretical model, with a minimal number of currents, for this novel mechanism of burst generation. This minimal model is further developed into a more elaborate model based on observations of additional currents and hypotheses about their spatial distribution in dopaminergic neurons [Hounsgaard (1992) Neuroscience 50, 513-518; Llins et al. (1984) Brain Res. 294, 127-132]. Using the minimal model, we confirm that interaction between the regenerative, inward N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated current and the outward Na(+)-pump current is sufficient to generate the slow oscillation (approximately 0.5 Hz) underlying the burst. The negative-slope region of the N-methyl-D-aspartate channel's current-voltage relation is indispensable for this slow rhythm generation. The time-scale of Na(+)-handling determines the burst's slow frequency. Moreover, we show that, given the constraints of sodium handling, such bursting is best explained mechanistically by using at least two spatial, cable-like compartments: a soma where action potentials are produced and a dendritic compartment where the slow rhythm is generated. Our result is consistent with recent experimental evidence that burst generation originates in distal dendrites [Seutin et al. (1994) Neuroscience 58, 201-206]. Responses of the model to a number of electrophysiological and pharmacological stimuli are consistent with known responses observed under similar conditions. These include the persistence of the slow rhythm when the tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ channel is blocked and when the soma is voltage-clamped at -60 mV. Using our more elaborate model, we account for details of the observed frequency adaptation in N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced bursting, the origin of multiple spiking and bursting mechanisms, and the interaction between two different bursting mechanisms. Besides reproducing several well established firing patterns, this model also suggests that new firing modes, not yet recorded, might also occur in dopaminergic neurons. This model provides mechanistic insights and explanations into the origin of a variety of experimentally observed membrane potential firing patterns in dopaminergic neurons, including N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced bursting and its dendritic origin. Such a model, capable of reproducing a number of realistic behaviors of dopaminergic neurons, could be useful in further studies of the basal ganglia-thalamocortical motor circuit. It may also shed light on bursting that involves N-methyl-D-aspartate channel activity in other neuron types.
The reticular thalamic nucleus consists of densely packed neurons containing the neurotransmitter GABA. It surrounds the lateral border of the thalamus, has extensive reciprocal connections with thalamocortical neurons, and is thought to be involved in attentional processes. The reticular thalamic nucleus also receives direct and indirect inputs from the basal ganglia, suggesting that it may be involved in relaying motor information to the thalamus and cortex. We examined the possibility that decreased dopaminergic transmission in the basal ganglia indirectly affects the reticular thalamic nucleus. Rats received unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra pars compacta and were killed two or three weeks after the lesion. Sections of the reticular thalamic nucleus were processed for in situ hybridization histochemistry at the single cell level with RNA probes for both isoforms of glutamate decarboxylase (M(r) 65,000: glutamate decarboxylase 65 and M(r) 67,000: glutamate decarboxylase 67), the rate limiting enzyme of GABA synthesis. Unilateral nigrostriatal dopaminergic lesions induced a topographically specific, bilateral increase in glutamate decarboxylase 67 messenger RNA in neurons of the lateral and ventral reticular thalamic nucleus. A much smaller increase in glutamate decarboxylase 65 messenger RNA was observed which was significant only ipsilateral to the lesion. Short- (seven day) and long-term (eight month) treatments with the antipsychotic drug haloperidol, in regimens that preferentially block D2 dopamine receptors, induced catalepsy and orofacial dyskinesia, respectively, but did not alter glutamate decarboxylase 67 messenger RNA levels in the reticular thalamic nucleus. Thus, loss of dopaminergic terminals, but not blockade of D2 dopamine receptors, induced the effects observed in the reticular thalamic nucleus. The results reveal a novel bilateral effect of unilateral dopamine depletion. In view of the role of the reticular thalamic nucleus in tremor and attentional processes, which are altered in Parkinson's disease, this effect may contribute to the clinical manifestations of nigrostriatal dopamine depletion.
The functional organization of the cortico-nucleus accumbens-substantia nigra pars reticulata circuit was investigated in the rat using combined anatomical and electrophysiological approaches. The nucleus accumbens neurons which project to the substantia nigra pars reticulata are located in a circumscribed region of the core immediately adjacent and extending dorsally to the anterior commissure. As shown by retrograde and anterograde transports of wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase, the region of the nucleus accumbens related to the substantia nigra was found to receive bilateral inputs from restricted areas of the medial and lateral prefrontal cortex, i.e., prelimbic/medial orbital and dorsal agranular insular areas. The electrical stimulation of these medial and lateral prefrontal cortical areas induced excitatory responses in nucleus accumbens neurons projecting to the dorsomedial substantia nigra pars reticulata. Interestingly, an important proportion (61%) of the nucleus accumbens-nigral cells responding to the stimulation of the lateral prefrontal cortex were also excited by the stimulation of the medial prefrontal cortex, demonstrating the existence of a convergent influence of these cortical areas on single nucleus accumbens cells. Furthermore, the present data also show that the stimulation of the medial prefrontal cortex results in a powerful inhibition of the tonic firing of the substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons. In conclusion, this study reveals the existence of a functional link between the prefrontal cortex (prelimbic/medial orbital and agranular insular areas) and the nucleus accumbens neurons which innervate the dorsomedial region of the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Since the dorsomedial region of substantia nigra pars reticulata is known to project to subfields of the mediodorsal and ventromedial thalamic nuclei related to the prefrontal cortex, the present data further demonstrate the existence of a prefrontal-nucleus accumbens-thalamo-cortical circuit involving the substantia nigra pars reticulata.
In this paper, we have carried out a theoretical analysis of the recovery process of inactivating currents whose voltage-dependent conductances obey the Hodgkin-Huxley equations. We demonstrate that the recovery process is complex, and, in particular, is non-exponential. Consequently, it cannot be characterized by a single-time constant. Nevertheless, its time-course is completely determined by the properties of the activation and inactivation kinetics at the membrane potential at which the deinactivation of the current takes place. Moreover, we show that the recovery asymptotically approaches an exponential time-course whose time-constant, in turn, is found to be identical to that of the inactivation at the membrane potential of deinactivation. The method commonly used to reconstruct the recovery process can, therefore, provide a way of estimating the inactivation time-constant at membrane potentials where a measurement with the usual voltage-clamp protocol would not be possible. The conclusions of our analysis are discussed with regard to recent theoretical and experimental results.
We examined the distribution and ontogeny of two odorant-binding proteins in the rat at various stages of development from newborn to adult using northern blot and in situ hybridization methods. Our results demonstrated spatial segregation between odorant-binding protein and odorant-binding proteinII in nasal glandular tissues. Odorant-binding protein messenger RNA was expressed in the glandular system opening into the nasal vestibule, whereas odorant-binding proteinII messenger RNA was seen in the posterior glands of the nasal septum and in the vomeronasal glands. In addition, odorant-binding protein and odorant-binding proteinII messenger RNA levels increased during early postnatal stages with time courses that paralleled the anatomical development of the main olfactory system and the vomeronasal system, respectively. Our results suggest that odorant-binding proteinII functions as a pheromone transporter in the vomeronasal system.
The plexiform and granule cell layers of the female mouse accessory olfactory bulb, whose synaptic activities are modified by pheromonal inputs after mating, contain one of the highest densities of nitric oxide synthase in the brain. We tested the hypothesis that exogenous nitric oxide administration can, in principle, permit the formation of a specific pheromonal memory without mating by acting in synergy with bulbar neurotransmitter(s) to enhance long-lasting increase in gain of the mitral-granule cell dendrodendritic synapse. Two infusions of sodium nitroprusside (5 nmol; 0.5 microliters) into the accessory olfactory bulb activated recognition without mating. A single infusion produced no recognition. This memory is specific to the pheromones to which the females were exposed during sodium nitroprusside infusions because strange male pheromones evoked a significant pregnancy failure rate. Furthermore, the memory formation is dependent on coincident activation by pheromonal inputs and sodium nitroprusside infusions, since drug infusions in the absence of male pheromones permitted a significant pregnancy block on test exposure. The alpha-adrenergic antagonist phentolamine prevented a sodium nitroprusside-mediated memory formation. In females with depleted bulbar noradrenergic innervation by specific neurotoxin (6-hydroxydopamine) injection into the medial olfactory striae or the accessory olfactory bulb, sodium nitroprusside infusions failed to induce memory formation. The procedure itself apparently did not interfere with the occurrence of pregnancy. These results demonstrate that exogenous administration of nitric oxide can induce a pheromone-specific olfactory memory without mating, and that this memory is mediated, at least in part, by noradrenaline.
The distribution of nerves with the potential to synthesize nitric oxide was examined within the urinary bladder and proximal urethra of humans and guinea-pigs, using an antibody to nitric oxide synthase. Further experiments identified cells in which cGMP-immunoreactivity was induced following exposure to the nitric oxide donor, sodium nitroprusside. These cells represent the potential physiological targets of neuronally released nitric oxide, since activation of soluble guanylate cyclase, and a consequent rise in intracellular cGMP, mediate many of the effects of this transmitter. Nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactivity was widely distributed in the lower urinary tract. In guinea-pigs, 50-68% of all intrinsic vesical neurons expressed nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactivity, while in humans 72-96% of neurons in the wall of the bladder contained nitric oxide synthase. In both humans and guinea-pigs, varicose nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive nerve terminals provided a moderate innervation to the detrusor muscle of the bladder body, and a denser innervation to the urethral muscle. Immunoreactive nerves also projected to the subepithelium and around blood vessels, but were rarely observed encircling intramural vesical ganglia. Following stimulation with sodium nitroprusside, smooth muscle cells of the urethra expressed strong cGMP-immunoreactivity, but detrusor muscle cells remained uniformly negative. Although the detrusor muscle fibres did not express cGMP, numerous interstitial cells throughout the bladder body demonstrated an intense induction of cGMP-immunoreactivity by sodium nitroprusside. These cells had long dendritic processes extending parallel to the smooth muscle fibres, and contained vimentin, an intermediate filament expressed by cells of mesenchymal origin. Other cell types in which sodium nitroprusside exposure induced cGMP-immunoreactivity were the uroepithelial cells, vascular smooth muscle cells and pericytes, and a small number of varicose nerve terminals. In the guinea-pig, a minor proportion (less than 10%) of intrinsic neurons in the wall of the bladder also expressed cGMP. No intrinsic neurons were observed in specimens of human bladder processed for cGMP immunohistochemistry. The results provide anatomical evidence that nitric oxide may function as a neurotransmitter in the lower urinary tract. Although nerves with the capacity to produce nitric oxide supply both the detrusor muscle and the urethra, distinct regional differences exist in the effects of nitric oxide on the induction of cGMP. If the nitric oxide-mediated induction of cGMP is a reliable indicator of the physiological responsiveness of a cell to nitric oxide, then smooth muscle cells appear to be the predominant targets of nitric oxide in the urethra, while in the bladder body, interstitial cells may serve this role. These findings support previous studies which have implicated nitric oxide as an inhibitory transmitter involved in the relaxation of the bladder neck. Our experiments further indicate that a number of cell types within the lower urinary tract could potentially mediate the effects of endogenously released nitric oxide.
There is general agreement that activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor is involved in thermal hyperalgesia. However, there is less agreement on the specific intracellular events subsequent to receptor activation and the involvement of other excitatory amino acid receptors in thermal hyperalgesia. In the present study, we found that the intrathecal administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate produced a dose- (1 fmol-1 pmol) and time-dependent thermal hyperalgesia. In contrast, over the dose range tested, intrathecal administration of either alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionate (AMPA; 10 fmol-100 pmol), 1,3-trans-1-aminocyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylate (10 fmol-100 pmol), quisqualate (10 pmol-5 nmol) or a 1:1 combination of AMPA and 1,3-trans-1-aminocyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylate (total dose 20 fmol-200 pmol) did not produce any evidence of thermal hyperalgesia; greater doses produced a caudally-directed biting and scratching behavior that precluded testing in the paradigm used. A fixed dose of 1,3-trans-1-aminocyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylate (100 pmol) did, however, potentiate the effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate (1-100 fmol). Thermal hyperalgesia produced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (1 pmol) was attenuated by intrathecal administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-selective antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (100 pmol), but not by the AMPA receptor-selective antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (1 nmol) or the metabotropic receptor antagonist 2-amino-3-phosphonoproprionate (10 nmol). In a second series of experiments, we examined the role of different signal transduction systems in acute N-methyl-D-aspartate-produced thermal hyperalgesia. N-Methyl-D-aspartate-produced thermal hyperalgesia (1 pmol) was attenuated by intrathecal hemoglobin (1-100 pmol) and dose-dependently by intrathecal N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (10 pmol-l nmol), Methylene Blue (10 pmol-l nmol) and chelerythrine (1-100 pmol), suggesting that acute N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated thermal hyperalgesia involves activation of nitric oxide synthase and protein kinase C. In contrast, N-methyl-D-aspartate-produced thermal hyperalgesia was unaffected by intrathecal administration of the phospholipase A2 inhibitor mepacrine (10 nmol) or the phospholipase C inhibitor neomycin (10 nmol). While prostaglandins and leukotrienes have been suggested to play a role in hyperalgesia, N-methyl-D-aspartate-produced thermal hyperalgesia (1 pmol) was unaffected by the non-selective eicosanoid inhibitor nordihydroguaiarate (1 nmol), the cyclo-oxygenase selective inhibitor indomethacin (10 nmol) or the lipoxygenase selective inhibitor baicalein (1 nmol). The results of the present study suggest that acute thermal hyperalgesia can be produced by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Activation of AMPA, metabotropic or co-activation of AMPA and metabotropic glutamate receptors, at the doses tested, did not produce an acute thermal hyperalgesia. The thermal hyperalgesia produced by N-methyl-D-aspartate is mediated by activation of nitric oxide synthase and protein kinase C, but not by phospholipase C, phospholipase A2, cyclo-oxygenase or lipoxygenase. Collectively, the results are consistent with a role for spinal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, nitric oxide and protein kinase C in thermal hyperalgesia.
Motoneuron cell death was analysed in the rat facial motor nucleus after neonatal facial nerve transection. In situ DNA fragmentation labelling showed that axotomized motoneurons die by an apoptotic mechanism. In order to investigate the existence of excitotoxic mechanisms in this type of neuronal death, rats were treated with several agents known to possess neuroprotective action through a variety of mechanisms. The Na+ channel inhibitor lamotrigine and the antagonist for the N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptor, dizocilpine maleate (MK-801) were found to be able to rescue motoneurons from cell death induced by axotomy. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester was also able to protect motoneurons from death, but to a lesser extent. The distribution of constitutive and inducible isoforms of nitric oxide synthase was investigated by immunocytochemistry in the facial motor nucleus. No changes were detected in constitutive nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity in the facial motor nucleus after axotomy. However, in the axotomized facial motor nucleus, inducible nitric oxide synthase showed a positive immunolabelling specifically located in activated astrocytes, but not in microglia. Nitric oxide derived from activated astrocytes may have a role in promoting excitotoxic mechanisms in axotomized motoneurons. We conclude that excitotoxic mechanisms involving apoptotic cell death are present when immature motoneurons die as a consequence of target disconnection.
The impact of nitric oxide on learning, memory processing and retrieval was studied in the neonatal rats. For comparison, spontaneous motor activity and changes of brain temperature were also studied after nitric oxide manipulations in identical age groups. The nitric oxide availability was either increased by a systemic or intracerebroventricular application of L-arginine, a substrate of nitric-oxide synthase, or decreased by nitro-L-arginine, its inhibitor. L-arginine, 20 mM or nitro-L-arginine, 10 or 5 mM were given intraperitoneally, 1 ml/100 g weight, or in the amounts of 11 into both lateral cerebral ventricles. Intact and saline injected pups were used as controls. Spontaneous motor behavior of newborn pups were not unambiguously affected by nitric oxide, and the same applies to changes of brain and body temperature or heart rate. In no case any correlation with changes of learning and/or memory could be established. Learning was dose dependently impaired relative to controls by intraperitoneal application of nitroarginine. L-arginine only slightly decreased numbers of trials to both criteria and partially abolished the blocking effect of nitroarginine on nitric oxide synthase. With the use of intracerebroventricular injections the positive impact of L-arginine on learning became highly significant. In 24-h memory, intraperitoneal injections of L-arginine enhanced the retention indexes. The impairing effect of nitro-L-arginine significantly increased with delaying after-learning application intervals, being more pronounced at the 3-h than at 0-h interval. Here also, its effect was partially abolished by L-arginine. Effects of nitric-oxide availability in brain after intracerebroventricular application of these substances at 16 various post-learning intervals were assessed on memory processing and retrieval. A general enhancing effect of increased nitric-oxide supply on 24-h retention indexes was found through all studied intervals, which was not, however, monotonous, but several peaks appeared with application at 3, 6, 18 and 23.5 h after learning. On the other hand, the suppressive effect of NArg was not evident relative to saline before the 6-h post-learning injection delay. These results show that nitric oxide exerts a considerable central modulatory effect on learning, memory processing and retrieval at the very early postnatal period of the rat. The efficiency of nitric-oxide manipulations depends on its actual bioavailability in the brain and the stage of memory processing.
The aim of this study was to assess the effect of blocking the axonal transport of sensory neuropeptides, by local injection of colchicine at pelvic ganglia level, on the sensory and efferent functions mediated by capsaicin-sensitive primary afferent neurons innervating the rat urinary bladder. Bilateral injection of colchicine in the prostatic tissue underneath the pelvic ganglia of male rats induced a time-dependent reduction (maximal at 72 h, 100% reduction) of the in vitro contraction of the bladder strips induced by capsaicin (1 microM). The response to electrical field stimulation was also reduced, although to a lesser extent. The direct contractions induced by substance P (100 nM) or KCl (80 mM) were not affected by colchicine pretreatment. In vivo, perigangliar injection of colchicine (72 h before) greatly increased bladder capacity, and reduced the amplitude of micturition contractions and micturition frequency. Capsaicin-induced plasma protein extravasation was abolished in the urinary bladder and reduced in the distal, but not the proximal ureter of colchicine-treated rats. Topical application of capsaicin onto the urinary bladder or onto the stomach induced a cardiovascular pressor reflex in urethane-anaesthetized, spinalized rats. Colchicine pretreatment reduced (by about 50%) the pressor response elicited by chemonociceptive stimulation of the bladder but not that arising from the stomach. Colchicine pretreatment did not produce overt changes of nerve profiles immunoreactive for calcitonin gene-related peptide- or tachykinin-like material in the rat urinary bladder. A more intense staining of nerve fibres positive for calcitonin-gene related peptide-like immunoreactivity and tachykinin-like immunoreactivity was observed in pelvic ganglia of colchicine-pretreated rats. No changes were detected in the dorsal horns of spinal cord segments where pelvic bladder afferents project (L6-S1). Colchicine pretreatment reduced, but did not abolish, bladder levels of substance P-, neurokinin A-, calcitonin gene-related peptide- and neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity. However, vasoactive intestinal peptide-like immunoreactivity levels were not changed. The capsaicin-evoked (1 microM) release of calcitonin gene-related peptide was abolished in capsaicin as well as in colchicine-pretreated animals. The present findings demonstrate that local treatment of pelvic ganglia with colchicine totally eliminates the &quot;efferent&quot; functions of capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves in the urinary bladder. Although reduced, tissue levels of sensory neuropeptides are not completely depleted, thus indicating the existence of a releasable versus non-releasable pool. The chemically induced blockade of axoplasmic transport also induces a limited impairment of the sensory function of capsaicin-sensitive afferents, and of the parasympathetic efferent system.
In our previous study, perineural application of capsaicin not only produced release and depletion of substance P from primary nociceptive afferent terminals, but also reduced GABA immunoreactivity in the superficial dorsal horn. The aim of the present study was to determine whether the release of GABA is triggered by substance P released from primary nociceptive afferent terminals by capsaican. GABA and substance P immunoreactivity in the lumbar dorsal horn was examined in two groups: in the first group the tibial nerve was treated with 3% capsaicin, and in the second group the dorsal surface of the lumbar cord was infused with spantide (50 nM), a substance P receptor antagonist, before application of capsaicin to the tibial nerve. Following perineural treatment of capsaicin for 30 min, both the GABA-immunostaining density and the number of GABA immunoreactive neurons were reduced significantly in the ipsilateral laminae I-II at L5 through L7. GABA immunoreactivity was reduced by 54.12%, 44.46% and 31.0% in the medial, central and lateral parts of the ipsilateral laminae I-II at L7, respectively. With pre-application of spantide to the spinal cord, GABA immunoreactivity was reduced only to 14.4%, 16.4% and 10.16%, respectively, in the medial, central and lateral parts of laminae I-II at L7 and no reduction of GABA immunoreactive neurons was observed. Additionally, capsaicin-induced reduction of substance P immunoreactivity was partially blocked by spantide. These results suggest that capsaicin produces substance P release from primary nociceptive afferent terminals, and that substance P, in turn, activates the second-order GABAergic interneurons in the dorsal horn. The functional significance of capsaicin-induced activation of GABAergic neurons in modulation of spinal nociception is discussed.
The cell body of sensory neurons in vitro has been used as a model to study the electrophysiological properties of afferent terminals. A limitation of this approach has been the ability to identify the function of the neuron studied. In the present study, we have tested the hypothesis that a putative nociceptor can be identified in vitro based on the expression of properties associated with nociceptors in vivo. A combination of patch-clamp electrophysiological and immunohistochemical techniques were used to describe the expression of nociceptor properties in acutely cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons from the adult rat. These properties include: a small cell body diameter; the presence of the neuropeptides substance P and calcitonin-gene related peptide; a shoulder (inflection) on the falling phase of the somal action potential, a response to the algogenic agent capsaicin, and sensitization in response to prostaglandin E2. Our results indicate that the frequency of expression of each of these properties varies in a manner consistent with that predicted from observations made in vivo, and that when one property is present in any given neuron, the other properties are also likely to be present. These data support the suggestion that the cell body of adult rat dorsal root ganglion neurons in vitro can be used to study the electrophysiological properties of nociceptors.
Behavioral studies have shown that mechanical hyperalgesia induced by intradermal injection of prostaglandin E2 is blocked by inhibitors of the cAMP second messenger system. Similarly, injection of prostaglandin E2 also induces a decrease in mechanical threshold and an increase in the number of action potentials elicited by test stimuli in most C-fibre nociceptors. This change is called sensitization. To further evaluate the degree of correlation between primary afferent sensitization and mechanical hyperalgesia, we conducted a study to evaluate the effect of agents known to block the cAMP second messenger system and behavioral manifestations of mechanical hyperalgesia following injection of prostaglandin E2. The agents tested were guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), an inhibitor of stimulatory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory proteins; 2',5'-dideoxyadenosine, an inhibitor of adenylyl cyclase; and Walsh Inhibitor Peptide, an inhibitor of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Single fibre electrophysiologic studies of 138 C-fibres, innervating the dorsum of the hind paw, was done in male Sprague-Dawley rats. The number of spikes evoked by a 10 s application of a threshold von Frey hair were determined before and after intradermal injection of test agents administered alone and in combination with prostaglandin E2. Injection of prostaglandin E2 with the test agent vehicle (saline or distilled water) resulted in a significant decrease in von Frey hair threshold and an increase in the number of spikes generated in response to threshold von Frey hairs. In contrast, co-injection of prostaglandin E2 with guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), 2',5'-dideoxyadenosine or Walsh inhibitor peptide did not result in a significant decrease in von Frey hair mechanical threshold or increase in the number of spikes generated to the threshold stimuli, compared with vehicle/prostaglandin E2. It is suggested that guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), 2',5'-dideoxyadenosine and Walsh inhibitor protein inhibited prostaglandin E2 sensitization of primary afferent C-fibres by inhibiting a stimulatory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein, adenylyl cyclase, and protein kinase A, respectively. These results support the hypothesis that primary afferent sensitization by prostaglandin E2 underlies prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia.
In a previous study we described two distinct neuronal phenotypes in rat dorsal root ganglia based on immunocytochemical assays for the neuronal intermediate filament proteins, peripherin and low-molecular-weight neurofilaments [Goldstein M. E. et al. (1991) J. Neurosci. Res. 30, 92-104]. In this paper we have extended this classification by using in situ hybridization to localize and evaluate the levels of various cytoskeletal and neuropeptide messenger RNAs within the peripherin-immunoreactive and peripherin-immunoreactive-negative neurons found in embryonic day 15 and 20, postnatal day 2 and adult dorsal root ganglia. We found in postnatal and adult dorsal root ganglia in vivo that the large, peripherin-immunoreactive-negative neurons, which are intensely stained by low-molecular-weight neurofilament antibodies, also contain high levels of low, medium and high-molecular-weight neurofilament messenger RNAs, whereas the smaller peripherin-immunoreactive neurons do not. On the other hand, both cell types contained comparable levels of peripherin and alpha-tubulin messenger RNA. The presence of peripherin messenger RNA but no peripherin immunoreactivity in the large cells suggested either a translational or post-translational regulation of this polypeptide, or rapid clearance of this protein from the perikaryon into the axon. In adult dorsal root ganglia, more than 50% of the peripherin-immunoreactive neurons also contained high levels of substance P and/or calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNAs, while less than 20% of the large peripherin-immunoreactive-negative neurons did. The attainment of these phenotypic characteristics during development in vivo was studied by northern blot and in situ hybridization histochemistry. In early embryonic stages (embryonic days 15-16), virtually all neurons were peripherin-immunoreactive and were positive for peripherin, alpha-tubulin and low-molecular-weight neuro-filament messenger RNAs, suggesting a homogeneous population. By embryonic day 20, the two adult phenotypes became clearly evident, and were fully established by postnatal day 2. In cultures of embryonic day 15 dorsal root ganglion neurons grown in the presence of nerve growth factor, peripherin and low-molecular-weight neurofilament messenger RNAs were expressed in all neurons, even after nine days in vitro, similar to embryonic dorsal root ganglia in vivo. Nerve growth factor supplemented by skeletal and heart muscle extracts did up-regulate neurofilament gene expression, but not to the extent characteristic of the peripherin-immunoreactive-negative adult phenotype. These results suggest that development of the mature phenotype of dorsal root ganglion neurons occurs by postnatal day 2 in vivo and is dependent upon target contact and/or target-derived factors.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor was first described as a trophic factor for developing dopamine neurons. However, it has been shown that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA is also expressed in several areas of the developing brain and spinal cord, suggesting that it may have additional roles in the nervous system. Intraocular transplantation of neural tissue provides a unique method to examine in vivo effects of trophic factors. We have therefore studied the effects of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor on spinal cord survival and development following grafting to the anterior chamber of the eye of adult rats. We used spinal cord tissue from fetal stages (embryonic days 14 and 18) and postnatal days 1 and 14 as donors. The spinal cord tissue was allotransplanted to the anterior eye chamber of Sprague-Dawley host rats after incubation in buffered saline containing 100 micrograms glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor/ml or 100 micrograms cytochrome C/ml. One group of postnatal day 1 spinal cord grafts was also treated with concentrations of 20 and 10 micrograms glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor/ml. In all cases, 5 microliters of the same solution was injected into the anterior eye chamber on postgrafting days 5, 10, 15 and 20 (total amounts 0.5, 0.1 and 0.05 microgram/eye/injection, respectively). We found that all glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-treated spinal cord grafts grew more than controls. The effect of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor was most prominent in grafts from newborn rats. In these grafts we found a dose-dependent effect of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor on growth. Moreover, grafts treated with the highest dose (0.5 microgram) grew to sizes exceeding the initial size at transplantation. In these transplants we also found greater numbers of large neurons compared to controls. Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity, in contrast, showed increased gliosis in controls. Similar results were found with syngeneic spinal cord postnatal day 1 grafts in Fisher hosts. Spinal cord tissue grafts from two-week-old rats treated with the highest glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor dose every fifth day, through day 35 postgrafting, responded with increased growth and less necrotic tissue compared with controls; however, we could not detect neurofilament immunoreactivity in these transplants. Taken together, these results suggest that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor may be a potent trophic factor for neurons in the spinal cord and in spinal cord transplants. Of particular importance is that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor treatment can be used to obtain survival of postnatal spinal cord tissue, that would otherwise show minimal or no survival. Thus, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor allows successful transplantation of more mature spinal cord tissue, which may have important implications for both basic and clinical neuroscience.
We replaced the mouse neurotrophin-3 gene with the Escherichia coli-derived lacZ gene by means of homologous recombination. The mice with this mutation were useful models for studying the distribution of neurotrophin-3 expression in vivo, because visualization by 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoyl-beta-D-galactopyranoside (X-Gal) staining was simple and rapid compared with in situ hybridization or immunohistochemistry. Whole-mount staining of mutant embryos at embryonic day 10 revealed that lacZ, a reporter for the neurotrophin-3 gene, was expressed in the mesencephalon, mandibular arch and somites. In the embryos at days 13-17, lacZ was markedly expressed in the peripheral target tissues of sensory and sympathetic neurons. We also found that spinal motor neurons and sensory neurons in trigeminal and dorsal root ganglia express lacZ. Some of these X-Gal staining regions overlapped with the sites expressing trkC, a high-affinity receptor for neurotrophin-3. The distribution of X-Gal staining in heterozygotes and homozygotes was similar to that of neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA detected by in situ hybridization. However, there was less lacZ expression in the dorsal root ganglia of homozygotes than neurotrophin-3 expression in wild-type mice. These results suggest that the neurotrophin-3 produced in the dorsal root ganglia also plays a role in the survival of some of the neurotrophin-3-positive neurons and that the local mode of neurotrophic activity is widely distributed.
Motoneurons to rat hindleg muscles die after neonatal nerve injury. Here we show that increasing transmitter release of motor nerve terminals by treatment with 4-aminopyridine, prior to nerve injury at three days, reduces the extent of motoneuron death. Retrograde labelling of soleus motoneurons was carried out in 10-week-old animals that had their sciatic nerve crushed on one side when they were three days old. Only 20% (+/- 4.2 S.E.M.) of the motoneurons survived the nerve injury. A group of animals similarly injured at three days had their calf muscles treated with 4-aminopyridine at birth, prior to nerve injury. In these animals a significantly higher percentage (51 +/- 6.6% S.E.M.) of soleus motoneurons survived. In order to assess the proportion of surviving alpha-motoneurons only, the number of motor units in both the soleus and extensor digitorum longus muscles was established by following the stepwise increments of twitch tension in response to increasing intensity of stimulation of the respective motor nerve. After nerve injury at three days only 18% (+/- 4.1% S.E.M.) of motor units to soleus and 28.5% (+/- 4.9% S.E.M.) to extensor digitorum longus survived and were able to reinnervate their respective muscles. If the nerve injury was preceded by local application of 4-aminopyridine, then the number of motor units present in the reinnervated muscles was significantly greater, so that in soleus 52.7% (+/- 5.4% S.E.M.) and in extensor digitorum longus 52.1% (+/- 2.4% S.E.M.) of motor units were present. This increase of motoneuron survival was reflected in a smaller weight loss and in a better restoration of force production by the pretreated as compared to untreated muscles on reinnervation after nerve injury. It is suggested that enhancing transmitter release from nerve endings in neonatal animals induces the motoneuron to become more resistant to nerve injury.
Functional neuronal connections associated with the cardiovascular response to unilateral low-intensity electrical stimulation of the mesencephalic cuneiform nucleus were examined in the halothane-anaesthetized and paralysed rat by in situ hybridization histochemistry using specific 35S-labelled oligonucleotides for detection of nerve growth factor inducible-A gene (NGFI-A) and c-fos messenger RNAs. Stimulation of the cuneiform nucleus increased mean arterial pressure and heart rate by 20 +/- 0.5 mmHg and 35 +/- 3 b.p.m., respectively, while no significant cardiovascular response was observed in animals stimulated in the inferior colliculus or in sham-operated animals. Cuneiform nucleus stimulation produced increased NGFI-A and c-fos messenger RNA levels in the Klliker-Fuse and parabrachial nuclei ipsilaterally, and the cuneiform nucleus, dorsal periaqueductal gray and caudal ventrolateral medulla bilaterally at levels significantly greater than those in inferior colliculus-stimulated, sham-operated and naive, unoperated animals. NGFI-A, but not c-fos, messenger RNA expression was increased bilaterally in the caudal portion of the nucleus of the solitary tract and inferior olive. These results are consistent with previous neuroanatomical tract-tracing studies of afferent and efferent pathways from the cuneiform nucleus and indicate that these midbrain and hindbrain structures may be involved in the pressor and tachycardic responses associated with stimulation of the cuneiform nucleus. The ipsilateral nature of responses in certain brain areas may be explained by the absence of decussating pathways and/or the presence of multisynaptic connections which attenuate bilateral signal transmission. Characterization of these activated neuronal structures using other compatible labelling techniques should further elucidate the mechanisms by which these central nervous system structures are integrated in the cardiovascular responses to stimulation of the cuneiform nucleus.
The distribution and retrograde transport of brain-derived neurotrophic factor was examined using magnetic resonance imaging guided stereotaxic intracerebroventricular and intrastriatal infusion in the cynomologous monkey. Two intracerebroventricular animals were infused with brain-derived neurotrophic factor at a dose of 3 micrograms/h for 21 and 28 days. A third intracerebroventricular animal received sequential infusions of 15, 30 and 60 micrograms/h brain-derived neurotrophic factor each for seven days using an Alzet 2002 minipump. For the multiple intrastriatal animals (n = 5) a dose of 3 micrograms/h was infused into each site. One intrastriatal monkey was infused with vehicle solution of 10 mM phosphate-buffered saline pH 7.4 for 14 days resulting in no brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity. Following the lower dose intracerebroventricular infusion, brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity was confined to the ventricular ependymal layer. In the sequential higher dose intracerebroventricular case, the cannula was located mainly within the lateral ventricle, although there was damage to the ependymal wall and adjacent caudate nucleus. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity revealed spread of injectate within the ipsilateral and to a lesser extent the contralateral caudate nucleus, septum, orbital cortex and ventricular ependymal wall. In this case, retrogradely labelled brain-derived neurotrophic factor neurons were found within the parafascicular thalamus and substantia nigra, pars compacta, as well as within cortex, vertical limb of the diagonal band and nucleus basalis. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor intrastriatal infusion retrogradely labelled perikarya within sensory motor cortex, parafascicular thelamus and substantia nigra, pars compacta. Sections from these cases dual-immunoreacted for brain-derived neurotrophic factor and tyrosine hydroxylase, the synthesizing enzyme for dopamine, revealed a subpopulation of pars compacta dopaminergic neurons which contained retrogradely transported brain-derived neurotrophic factor. These findings indicate that a select subgroup of nigral dopamine neurons retrogradely transport brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the primate. Furthermore it remains to be determined whether select nigral cells are responsive to the trophic influences of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the normal and neuropathologic condition.
