
New details generated by neuroimaging and other methods for studying the neural correlates of behavior have led to the formulation of a new model of brain organization, the Trimodal Brain. The model incorporates current biochemical; anatomical, and physiological concepts of prenatal brain growth and combines them with findings on right/left functional asymmetries. It provides a means of relating a wide range of human behaviors and clinical states according to a common base of neural organization, and stresses the utility of an organizational rather than a lesion model for understanding developmental communication disorders.
Nerve dysfunction in diabetes is associated with increased oxidative stress. Vitamin E depletion also leads to enhanced presence of reactive oxygen species (ROS). We compared systemic and endoneurial ROS activity and nerve conduction in vitamin E-depleted control and streptozotocin-diabetic rats (CE- and DE-), and in normally fed control and diabetic animals (CE+ and DE+). Nerve conduction was reduced in both diabetic groups. Vitamin E depletion caused a small further nerve conduction deficit in the diabetic, but not in the control animals. The combination of vitamin E deficiency and streptozotocin-diabetes (group DE-) appeared to be lethal. In the remaining groups, an important rise in sciatic nerve malondialdehyde (MDA) was observed in the vitamin E-depleted control rats. In contrast, plasma MDA levels were elevated in group DE+ only, whereas hydrogen peroxide levels were increased in group CE-. Endoneurial total and oxidized glutathione and catalase were predominantly elevated in group DE+. These data show that nerve lipid peroxidation induced by vitamin E depletion does not lead to reduced nerve conduction or changes in antioxidant concentrations as observed in STZ-diabetes. The marked systemic changes in MDA and antioxidants suggest that nerve dysfunction in experimental hyperglycemia is rather a consequence of systemic than direct nerve damage.
The stride-cycle frequency of gait data is often estimated by taking the inverse of the average stride-cycle time (stride period) over several stride-cycles. We derive the density function of the stride-cycle frequency frequency (stride frequency) and describe some of its properties. We also show the conditions under which the inverse of the mean stride period is a 'good' estimate of the mean stride frequency. Copyright 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.
In this study, a rAAV vector carrying a reporter gene, 'humanized' green fluorescent protein (GFP), linked to the transcriptional control region from the myelin basic protein (MBP) gene (a myelin-forming cell-specific gene) was constructed. Transduction of oligodendrocytes was carried out both in vitro and in vivo. The GFP expression was detected for at least 3 weeks in both transduced oligodendrocyte cell line (MOCH-1 cells) and primary cultures of rat oligodendrocytes. Preferential GFP expression in oligodendrocytes was observed in the primary cultures. In contrast, transduction with rAAV carrying the CMV promoter produced stronger GFP fluorescence in various cell types, with the majority of GFP-expressing cells being the astrocytes. Infusion of approximately 6 x 10(9) particles (2 x 10(5) infectious units) of rAAV-MBP-GFP into mouse brains resulted in the GFP expression specifically in white matter. The GFP protein was detected 15 days later by immunostaining, specifically in the oligodendrocytes. No astrocytes were transduced. Our studies suggested that cell types other than neurons in the central nervous system can also be transduced by rAAV using a cell-type-specific transcriptional control region or promoter. The MBP transcriptional control region might be suitable for gene therapy and other neurobiology studies requiring direct targeting to the myelinating cells.
The acetylcholine receptor (AChR), an oligomeric protein composed of five subunits, is a component of the postsynaptic membrane at the vertebrate neuromuscular junction that plays a central role in synaptic transmission. The zebrafish mutation nic1 blocks the expression of functional and clustered nicotinic muscle AChRs. To understand the mechanisms underlying this lack of AChRs, we characterized the molecular defect in nic1 mutants. Our results suggest that the mutation affects the gene coding for the alpha-subunit of the AChR. Southern blot hybridization and DNA sequence analyses showed that the nic1 AChR alpha-subunit gene lacks part of intron 6 where the splicing branchpoint normally forms. Several lines of evidence suggest that this deletion blocks normal splicing; most nic1 alpha-subunit mRNAs retain intron 6 and are larger and less abundant than wild-type, some nic1 alpha-subunit mRNAs are internally deleted, and wild-type alpha-subunit mRNA rescues nic1 mutant cells. The nic1 mutation reduces the size of an intron, which prevents efficient splicing of the pre-mRNA, thus blocking synthesis of the alpha-subunit and assembly of AChRs. By this route, the nic1 mutation leads to paralysis.
For the past 50 years, psychologists have wrestled with questions regarding the relationship between conscious awareness and human conditioned behavior. A recent proposal that the hippocampus mediates awareness during trace conditioning (Clark, Squire, Science 1998;280:77-81) has extended the awareness-conditioning debate to the neuroscience arena. In the following commentary, we raise specific theoretical and methodological issues regarding the Clark and Squire study and place their finding into a broader context. Throughout our discussion, we consider the difficulties in assessing subjective awareness, the importance of establishing necessary and sufficient conditions for cognitive mediation effects, the influence of conditioned response modality, and the nature of hippocampal requirements across conditioning protocols. It is clear that trace eyeblink conditioning is a hippocampal-dependent task, but whether awareness is a necessary component of trace conditioning is not definitively proven. We propose that future functional neuroimaging studies and behavioral experiments using on-line measures of awareness may help clarify the relationship among classical conditioning, awareness, and the hippocampus.
Hippocampus plays a crucial role in important brain functions (e.g. memory, learning) thus in the past two decades this brain region became a major objective of neuroscience research. During this period large number of anatomical, neurochemical and electrophysiological data have been accumulated. While excellent reviews have been published on the anatomy and electrophysiology of hippocampal formation, the neurochemistry of this area has not been thoroughly surveyed. Therefore the aim of this review is to summarize the neurochemical and pharmacological data on the release of the major neurotransmitters found in the hippocampal region: glutamate (GLU), gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA), acetylcholine (ACh), noradrenaline (NA) and serotonin (5-HT). In addition, this review analyzes the synaptic and nonsynaptic interactions between hippocampal neuronal elements and overviews how auto- and heteroreceptors are involved in the presynaptic modulation of transmitter release. The presented data clearly show that transmitters released from axon terminals without synaptic contact play an important role in the fine tuning of communication between neurons within a neuronal circuit.
Kainic acid (KA) induces status epilepticus and delayed neurodegeneration of CA3 hippocampal neurons. Downregulation of glutamate receptor 2 (GluR2) subunit mRNA [the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA) subunit that limits Ca2+ permeability] is thought to a play role in this neurodegeneration, possibly by increased formation of Ca2+ permeable AMPA receptors. The present study examined early hippocampal decreases in GluR2 mRNA and protein following kainate-induced status epilepticus and correlated expression changes with the appearance of dead or dying cells by several histological procedures. At 12 h, in situ hybridization followed by emulsion dipping showed nonuniform decreases in GluR2 mRNA hybridization grains overlying morphologically healthy-appearing CA3 neurons. GluR1 and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor mRNAs were unchanged. At 12-16 h, when little argyrophilia or cells with some features of apoptosis were detected by silver impregnation or electron microscopy, single immunohistochemistry with GluR2 and GluR2/3 subunit-specific antibodies demonstrated a pattern of decreased GluR2 receptor protein within CA3 neurons that appeared to predict a pattern of damage, similar to the mRNA observations. Double immunolabeling showed that GluR2 immunofluorescence was depleted and that GluR1 immunofluorescence was sustained in clusters of the same CA3 neurons. Quantitation of Western blots showed increased GluR1:GluR2 ratios in CA3 but not in CA1 or dentate gyrus subfields. Findings indicate that the GluR1:GluR2 protein ratio is increased in a population of CA3 neurons prior to significant cell loss. Data are consistent with the &quot;GluR2 hypothesis&quot; that reduced expression of GluR2 subunits will increase formation of AMPA receptors permeable to Ca2+ and predict vulnerability to a particular subset of pyramidal neurons following status epilepticus.

The importance of the perirhinal cortex for visual recognition memory performance is undisputed. However, it has not been clear whether its contribution to performance is mainly perceptual, or mainly mnemonic, or whether the perirhinal cortex contributes to both perception and memory. We determined the effects of medial temporal lobe damage that includes complete damage to the perirhinal cortex in two amnesic patients by assessing recognition memory for complex visual stimuli across delays from 0 to 40 s. These patients, as well as six other amnesic patients with damage limited to the hippocampal formation or diencephalic structures, exhibited intact recognition memory at delays of 0-2 s and a delay-dependent memory impairment at delays of 6 s and longer. Additionally, the patients with damage to the perirhinal cortex performed worse than the other amnesic patients at delays of 25 s and longer. The findings suggest that the perirhinal cortex is not important for visual perception or immediate memory. In this respect, the findings for perirhinal cortex resemble the findings for other medial temporal lobe structures, including the hippocampus.
Theta frequency field oscillation reflects synchronized synaptic potentials that entrain the discharge of neuronal populations within the approximately 100-200 ms range. The cellular-synaptic generation of theta activity in the hippocampus was investigated by intracellular recordings from the somata and dendrites of CA1 pyramidal cells in urethane-anesthetized rats. The recorded neurons were verified by intracellular injection of biocytin. Transition from non-theta to theta state was characterized by a large decrease in the input resistance of the neuron (39% in the soma), tonic somatic hyperpolarization and dendritic depolarization. The probability of pyramidal cell discharge, as measured in single cells and from a population of extracellularly recorded units, was highest at or slightly after the negative peak of the field theta recorded from the pyramidal layer. In contrast, cyclic depolarizations in dendrites corresponded to the positive phase of the pyramidal layer field theta (i.e. the hyperpolarizing phase of somatic theta). Current-induced depolarization of the dendrite triggered large amplitude slow spikes (putative Ca2+ spikes) which were phase-locked to the positive phase of field theta. In the absence of background theta, strong dendritic depolarization by current injection led to large amplitude, self-sustained oscillation in the theta frequency range. Depolarization of the neuron resulted in a voltage-dependent phase precession of the action potentials. The voltage-dependent phase-precession was replicated by a two-compartment conductance model. Using an active (bursting) dendritic compartment spike phase advancement of action potentials, relative to the somatic theta rhythm, occurred up to 360 degrees. These data indicate that distal dendritic depolarization of the pyramidal cell by the entorhinal input during theta overlaps in time with somatic hyperpolarization. As a result, most pyramidal cells are either silent or discharge with single spikes on the negative portion of local field theta (i.e., when the somatic region is least polarized). However, strong dendritic excitation may overcome perisomatic inhibition and the large depolarizing theta rhythm in the dendrites may induce spike bursts at an earlier phase of the extracellular theta cycle. The magnitude of dendritic depolarization is reflected by the timing of action potentials within the theta cycle. We hypothesize that the competition between the out-of-phase theta oscillation in the soma and dendrite is responsible for the advancement of spike discharges observed in the behaving animal.
Activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) with 1-aminocyclopentane-1S,3R-dicarboxylic acid 20 min prior to tetanus facilitates, or &quot;primes,&quot; subsequent induction of long-term potentiation (LTP; Cohen and Abraham, J Neurophysiol 1996;76:953-962). In the present study, we investigated the receptor specificity and associated second messenger pathways involved in the mGluR priming effect by using field potentials recorded from area CA1 of rat hippocampal slices. In controls, mild theta-burst or high-frequency (100 Hz) stimulation induced 16% and 21% LTP, respectively. A 10-min application of the group I mGluR agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) caused a transient depression of synaptic responses but a significant enhancement of subsequent LTP for both tetanus protocols (45% and 41% LTP, respectively). Maximal LTP, induced by stronger tetanization protocols, was not enhanced by DHPG, nor was mild LTP facilitated by post-tetanic application of DHPG. Priming with agonists selective for group II or III mGluRs had no effect on LTP. The mGluR antagonists L-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid and 1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid inhibited the LTP facilitatory effect of DHPG but not the transient response depression, whereas alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine produced the opposite effects. Priming with N-methyl-D-aspartate or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid did not facilitate LTP induction. Prior activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors produced at best a weak priming effect. Inhibition of phospholipase C by U-73122 completely abolished the priming of LTP by DHPG. We conclude that mGluR priming of LTP results from biochemical cascades triggered by activation of phospholipase C coupled to group I mGluRs.
This experiment explored whether excitotoxic hippocampus plus dentate gyrus (HPC/DG) lesions in rats would dissociate the differential processing of contextual cues during the performance of learned associations when (1) their processing during training is incidental to successful learning or (2) the solution of a discrimination problem is contingent on their processing. A series of training stages were conducted, beginning with appetitive conditioning to two stimuli (X and Y), each of which was trained in one of two different contexts (operant chambers A and B) (i.e., AX+, BY+). Conditioning was indexed as appetitive responding. The animals were then trained on a biconditional contextual discrimination with these same stimuli (AX+, AY-; BY+, BX-). The next stage involved conditioning trials to two new stimuli (W and Z), one in each context, while the animals were actively discriminating contexts A and B by continuing to perform the original biconditional discrimination (AX+, AY-, AW+; BY+, BX-, BZ+). Finally, they were trained on a second biconditional discrimination involving these new stimuli (AX+, AY-, AW+, AZ-; BY+, BX-, BZ+, BW-). The incidental use of context cues was examined by looking at the rate of conditioned responding to cues X, Y, W, and Z in their original training contexts or a different context; HPC/DG lesioned rats differed from controls in being unaffected by a change of context. The contingent use of context cues was examined by looking at performance of each of the two biconditional tasks; HPC/DG lesioned rats reached levels of conditional performance indistinguishable from those of controls. These findings point to two distinct ways in which contextual information is processed in the brain, revealing a dissociation between incidental and contingent processing of contextual cues after HPC/DG lesions.
The experiment tested the prediction that spatial mapping takes time and asked whether time use is reflected in the overt behavior of a performing animal. The study examines this question by exploiting the expected behavioral differences of control rats and rats with hippocampal formation damage induced with fimbria-fornix (FF) lesions on a spatial navigation task. Previous studies have shown that control rats use a mapping strategy, in which they use the relative positions of environmental cues to reach places in space, whereas FF rats use a cue-based strategy, in which they are guided by a single cue or their own body orientation. Therefore, control and FF rats were overtrained on a complex foraging task in which they left a burrow to retrieve eight food pellets hidden around the perimeter of a circular table. The control rats retrieved the food pellets in order of their distance from the burrow, took direct routes to the food, and made few errors, all of which suggested they used a spatial strategy. The FF rats were less likely to retrieve food as a function of its distance, took a circular path around the perimeter of the table, and made many errors, suggesting they used a cue-based strategy. Despite taking shorter routes than the FF rats, the control rats had proportionally slower response speeds. Their slow response speeds support the hypothesis that spatial mapping takes time and that mapping time is reflected in behavior. The results are discussed in relation to their relevance to spatial mapping theory, hippocampal function, and the evolution of foraging strategies.
Rats with bilateral electrolytic lesions of perirhinal cortex (PRC) or sham control (SHAM) lesions were tested in spatial reference and working memory tasks in the radial arm maze. In experiment 1, one arm of the maze was baited and always located in a fixed position relative to the extra-maze environment. PRC lesioned animals made a significantly greater number of errors than did SHAM animals during initial training in this reference memory task and exhibited a delay-dependent impairment on trial 5 in a series when a delay period of 5, 60, 120, or 240 s was inserted between trials 4 and 5. In experiment 2, when a second group of the animals was tested on the standard radial arm maze working memory task, the performance of the PRC group was markedly impaired relative to controls. These data demonstrate that electrolytic PRC lesions result in a deficit in both spatial reference and spatial working memory tasks. These effects are interpreted as being consistent with the idea that PRC plays an important role in episodic memory processes. These processes may include the storage of information, which is required for the performance of spatial tasks.
The aim of this study was to develop a simple means of studying the distribution of mRNA coding for post-synaptic proteins at the human neuromuscular junction. A reliable method by which to identify the junctions in tissue sections after in situ hybridization was essential. A method is described for combining the histochemical demonstration of esterase activity at the neuromuscular junction with autoradiographic localization of mRNA by in situ hybridization in the same cryostat section of skeletal muscle. The indigogenic esterase method of Strum and Hall-Craggs (1982) was modified in such a way that it is able to survive the multiple steps involved in in situ hybridization and autoradiography. The protocol is simple and reproducible and has been used successfully on sections of both rat and human skeletal muscle. To demonstrate the method, sections were reacted to reveal esterase activity and were then processed for in situ hybridization using a 35S-labelled probe specific for the epsilon-subunit of the acetylcholine receptor. The reaction product was retained after the lengthy in situ hybridization and autoradiographic procedures. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of acetylcholine receptor mRNA by in situ hybridization at human neuromuscular junctions.
The standard Gaussian function is proposed for the hemodynamic modulation function (HDMF) of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) time-series. Unlike previously proposed parametric models, the Gaussian model accounts independently for the delay and dispersion of the hemodynamic responses and provides a more flexible and mathematically convenient model. A suboptimal noniterative scheme to estimate the hemodynamic parameters is presented. The ability of the Gaussian function to represent the HDMF of brain activation is compared with Poisson and Gamma models. The proposed model seems valid because the lag and dispersion values of hemodynamic responses rendered by the Gaussian model are in the ranges of their previously reported values in recent optical and fMR imaging studies. An extension of multiple regression analysis to incorporate the HDMF is presented. The detected activity patterns exhibit improvements with hemodynamic correction. The proposed model and efficient parameter estimation scheme facilitated the investigation of variability of hemodynamic parameters of human brain activation. The hemodynamic parameters estimated over different brain regions and across different stimuli showed significant differences. Measurement of hemodynamic parameters over the brain during sensory or cognitive stimulation may reveal vital information on physiological events accompanying neuronal activation and functional variability of the human brain, and should lead to the investigation of more accurate and complex models.
This study characterized patterns of brain electrical activity associated with selective attention to the color of a stimulus. Multichannel recordings of event-related potentials (ERPs) were obtained while subjects viewed randomized sequences of checkerboards consisting of isoluminant red or blue checks superimposed on a grey background. Stimuli were presented foveally at a rapid rate, and subjects were required to attend to the red or blue checks in separate blocks of trials and to press a button each time they detected a dimmer target stimulus of the attended color. An early negative ERP component with an onset latency of 50 ms was sensitive to stimulus color but was unaffected by the attentional manipulation. ERPs elicited by attended and unattended stimuli began to diverge after approximately 100 ms following stimulus onset. Inverse dipole modelling of the attended-minus-unattended difference waveform indicated that an initial positive deflection with an onset latency of 100 ms had a source in lateral occipital cortex, while a subsequent negative deflection with an onset at 160 ms had a source in inferior occipito-temporal cortex. Longer-latency attention-sensitive components were localized to premotor frontal areas (onset at 190 ms) and to more anterior regions of the fusiform gyrus (onset at 240 ms). These source localizations correspond closely with cortical areas that were identified in previous neuroimaging studies as being involved in color-selective processing. The present ERP data thus provide information about the time course of stimulus selection processes in cortical areas that subserve attention to color.
We propose a new concept for analyzing EEG/MEG data. The concept is based on a projection of the spatiotemporal signal into the relevant phase space and the interpretation of the brain dynamics in terms of dynamical systems theory. The projection is obtained by a simultaneous determination of spatial modes and coefficients of differential equations. The resulting spatiotemporal model can be characterized by stationary points and corresponding potential field maps. Brain information processing can be interpreted by attraction and repulsion of spatial field distributions given by these stationary points. This allows an objective and quantitative characterization of the brain dynamics. We outline this concept and the underlying algorithm. Results of the application of this method to an event related potential (ERP) study of auditory memory processes are discussed.
With the purpose of localising the cerebral cortical areas participating in the discrimination of visual form generated exclusively by texture cues, we measured changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) with positron emissions tomography (PET) and 15O-butanol as the tracer. The subjects performed two odd-one-out discrimination tasks: a form-from-texture discrimination task (in which a visual form was defined by differences in texture) and its reference task, the discrimination of texture. During task performance, activated fields were present bilaterally in the primary visual cortex and its immediate extrastriate cortex, the right lateral occipital gyrus, bilaterally in the fusiform and superior temporal gyri and posterior parts of the superior parietal lobules, along the medial bank of the right intraparietal sulcus, and in the right supramarginal gyrus. Other fields were found in the cingulate and prefrontal cortex. The findings demonstrate that the discrimination of visual form as defined by texture engages cortical fields that are widely distributed ion the human brain. In the visual cortex, the activated fields are present in both the occipito-temporal and occipito-parietal visual areas. These results suggest that the perception and discrimination of forms in the visual system requires the joint-activation of neuronal populations in the visual cortex.
Neuroimaging studies in humans have consistently found robust activation of frontal, parietal, and temporal regions during working memory tasks. Whether these activations represent functional networks segregated by perceptual domain is still at issue. Two functional magnetic resonance imaging experiments were conducted, both of which used multiple-cycle, alternating task designs. Experiment 1 compared spatial and object working memory tasks to identify cortical regions differentially activated by these perceptual domains. Experiment 2 compared working memory and perceptual control tasks within each of the spatial and object domains to determine whether the regions identified in experiment 1 were driven primarily by the perceptual or mnemonic demands of the tasks, and to identify common brain regions activated by working memory in both perceptual domains. Domain-specific activation occurred in the inferior parietal cortex for spatial tasks, and in the inferior occipitotemporal cortex for object tasks, particularly in the left hemisphere. However, neither area was strongly influenced by task demands, being nearly equally activated by the working memory and perceptual control tasks. In contrast, activation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) was strongly task-related. Spatial working memory primarily activated the right middle frontal gyrus (MFG) and the IPS. Object working memory activated the MFG bilaterally, the left inferior frontal gyrus, and the IPS, particularly in the left hemisphere. Finally, activation of midline posterior regions, including the cingulate gyrus, occurred at the offset of the working memory tasks, particularly the shape task. These results support a prominent role of the prefrontal and parietal cortices in working memory, and indicate that spatial and object working memory tasks recruit differential hemispheric networks. The results also affirm the distinction between spatial and object perceptual processing in dorsal and ventral visual pathways.
X-linked spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA) is a rare form of motor neuron degeneration linked to a CAG repeat expansion in the first exon of the androgen receptor gene coding for a polyglutamine tract. In order to investigate the properties of the SBMA androgen receptor in neuronal cells, cDNAs coding for a wild-type (19 CAG repeats) and a SBMA mutant androgen receptor (52 CAG repeats) were transfected into mouse neuroblastoma NB2a/d1 cells. The full length androgen receptor proteins, of 110-112 kDa and 114-116 kDa for the wild-type and mutant protein, respectively, were detected by Western blotting in transfected cells. In addition, the presence of an expanded polyglutamine tract in the SBMA androgen receptor appears to enhance the production of C-terminally truncated fragments of the protein. A 74 kDa fragment was particularly prominent in cells expressing the SBMA androgen receptor. From its size, it can be deduced that the 74 kDa fragment lacks the hormone binding domain but retains the DNA binding domain. The 74 kDa fragment may therefore be toxic to motor neurons by initiating the transcription of specific genes in the absence of hormonal control. Immunofluorescence microscopy on transfected NB2a/d1 cells showed that, after hormone activation, the wild-type androgen receptor translocated to the nucleus whereas the SBMA androgen receptor was mainly localized in the cytoplasm in the form of dense aggregates with very little androgen receptor protein in the nucleus. This could explain the reduction in transcriptional activity of the SBMA mutant as compared with wild-type androgen receptor.
Three subjects performed sequences of periodic movements by synchronizing their movements (button pressing with the thumb) to a series of visual stimuli (induction phase), and by continuing to produce the movements with the same rhythm after the metronome had been switched off (continuation phase). The required inter-response intervals (IRIs) were 450, 550 or 650 ms. Two subjects were members of the EUROMIR 94 spaceflight mission. The inter-response intervals of the continuation phase were analyzed in terms of mean and variability. The mean inter-response intervals did not differ systematically during spaceflight from the pre- and post-flight values. The variability of the inter-response intervals significantly increased during the flight with both experimental subjects. The total variance of the inter-response intervals was partitioned into variance due to the internal timekeeper and variance due to the motor implementation processes, following the method proposed by Wing, A.M., Kristofferson, A.B., 1973. Response delays in the timing of discrete motor responses. Perception and Psychophysics 14, 5-12. The variance attributed to the timekeeper showed a significant increase with both subjects, whereas the variance attributed to the motor processes showed inconsistent trends during the spaceflight. It is concluded that during spaceflight, the functioning of the internal timing module may undergo some changes, as the result of which the regularity of the motor timing is slightly impaired.

The problem of trajectory tracking control of a three dimensional (3D) model of the human upper torso and head is considered. The torso and the head are modeled as two rigid bodies connected at one point, and the Newton-Euler method is used to derive the nonlinear differential equations that govern the motion of the system. The two-link system is driven by six pairs of muscle like actuators that possess physiologically inspired alpha like and gamma like inputs, and spindle like and Golgi tendon organ like outputs. These outputs are utilized as reflex feedback for stability and stiffness control, in a long loop feedback for the purpose of estimating the state of the system (somesthesis), and as part of the input to the controller. Ideal delays of different duration are included in the feedforward and feedback paths of the system to emulate such delays encountered in physiological systems. Dynamical neural networks are trained to learn effective control of the desired maneuvers of the system. The feasibility of the controller is demonstrated by computer simulation of the successful execution of the desired maneuvers. This work demonstrates the capabilities of neural circuits in controlling highly nonlinear systems with multidelays in their feedforward and feedback paths. The ultimate long range goal of this research is toward understanding the working of the central nervous system in controlling movement. It is an interdisciplinary effort relying on mechanics, biomechanics, neuroscience, system theory, physiology and anatomy, and its short range relevance to rehabilitation must be noted.
In view of therapeutic implications and problems in clinical diagnosis, this study sought to evaluate and identify histopathological features of acquired inflammatory demyelinating neuropathies and hereditary demyelinating neuropathies. Sural nerve biopsies from 41 patients of demyelinating neuropathies, diagnosed on the basis of accepted clinical criteria, were studied using routine histological staining and special stains for myelin and axons. Chronic inflammatory neuropathies differed from the acute ones in having more endoneurial connective tissue, less of subperineurial oedema and presence of axonal sprouting and occasional onion bulb formation. Acquired neuropathies differed from hereditary neuropathies in having a more localized involvement, endoneurial oedema and variable inflammatory cell infiltration, while in hereditary neuropathies Schwann cell proliferation was diffuse and relatively uniform. The frequency and degree of nerve thickening was more in hereditary neuropathy. Evidence of inflammation was not universal, both in the acute and the chronic inflammatory demyelinating neuropathies. Histopathological examination is essential as the clinical and electrophysiological features alone may not offer definitive diagnosis.

Seizures were monitored using both cuff method and EEG, during the first ECT session in 158 consecutive patients. All developed adequate EEG seizures (25 seconds). Twelve patients (8%) did not develop adequate motor seizures (15 seconds), of whom ten had no convulsive response. EEG seizure duration was less than 120 seconds in 117 patients (Group-A) and 120 or more seconds (prolonged) in the remaining 37 patients (Group-B). Adequate but not prolonged motor seizure (15-89 seconds) occurred in 111 patients in group A and 18 patients in group B. Motor seizure of 90 or more seconds (prolonged seizure) occurred in four patients in group A and 13 patients in group B. Based on the motor seizure criterion, 60% (18/31) of patients with prolonged EEG seizure were missed. The motor and EEG seizure durations correlated significantly in both groups. The correlation coefficient in group A was 0.78 (p&lt; 0.01), which was significantly larger (Fisher's 'Z' transformation test, t=3.12, p&lt; 0.01) than that in group B (0.37; p&lt; 0.05). Out of the total 158 patients, motor seizure monitoring alone did not correctly classify 21.4% of ECT seizure. This could have resulted in either unnecessary re-stimulation or failure to detect prolonged seizure. The findings suggest that in ECT motor seizure monitoring alone is unsatisfactory and therefore the need for EEG seizure monitoring.
Altitude exposures above 3,000 m produce changes in symptoms, moods, and cognitive/motor performance of unacclimatized individuals and should produce graded effects on these parameters as elevation and duration are increased. This study examined effects on these parameters as a function of altitude level and duration of exposure by administering standardized tests from 1 to 3 times to 23 males in an altitude chamber during 4.5-hour exposures to 3 levels of hypobaric hypoxia: 500 m, 4,200 m, and 4,700 m. Exposure to altitude significantly affected symptoms, moods, and performance in an elevation-dependent fashion. Adverse changes increased with higher altitudes (all measures were affected at 4,700 m, whereas only some were at 4,200 m) and usually with longer durations. Therefore, specific aspects of symptoms, moods, and performance are significantly degraded after only a few hours of exposure to hypobaric hypoxia, and the severity of the effects dramatically increases when testing is conducted at 4,700 m compared to 4,200 m.
Hypnotic analgesia remains an enigma. Recent neuroscience studies demonstrate that widespread distributed processing occurs in the brains of individuals experiencing pain. Emerging research and theory on the mechanisms of consciousness, along with this evidence, suggest that a constructivist framework may facilitate both pain research and the study of hypnosis. The authors propose that the brain constructs elements of pain experience (pain schemata) and embeds them in ongoing consciousness. The contents of immediate consciousness feed back to nonconscious, parallel distributed processes to help shape the character of future moments of consciousness. Hypnotic suggestion may interact with such processing through feedback mechanisms that prime associations and memories and thus shape the formation of future experience.
Neurobiological evidence shows that, during the development of the nervous system, inherited behavioral sense is built into the brain with remarkable fidelity. However the way in which the underlying circuitry and its functional characteristics are represented in the genome is not well understood. One response to this is to investigate the machinery of functional development in the nervous system and to set down in principle how genetic control is exerted at this level.
Delirium is a common mental disorder in the elderly with old age being a major risk factor for delirium. Another major risk factor is dementia. The aim of the present study was to identify differences in occurrence of episodes of delirium between the most common dementia diagnoses and the possible importance of age, gender, severity and duration of dementia for the development of delirium. Included in the study were 175 consecutive patients with probable Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia (VAD) or frontotemporal dementia (FTD) who were admitted to a neuropsychiatric diagnostic unit. There were no significant differences in sex distribution or duration of dementia between the delirious and non delirious patients. The rate of delirium was higher in late onset Alzheimer's disease (LAD) than in early onset Alzheimer's disease (EAD) and FTD. It was also higher in VAD than in EAD. The differences in occurrence of delirium between the diagnostic groups in this sample could not be explained by differences in age. It seems that delirium is more common in brain disorders such as LAD and VAD in which the damage to the brain is more widespread. In the two brain disorders that are predominantly cortical, EAD and FTD, the occurrence of delirium was comparatively low.
Erythropoietin (Epo) is a hematopoietic factor that facilitates erythroid progenitor cell proliferation and differentiation. Recently, trophic effects of Epo have been observed in central cholinergic neurons. We have confirmed the neurotrophic factor activity of Epo and moreover, demonstrated sprouting and signaling by Epo in neural cells. Further, we have identified a 17-mer peptide sequence (epopeptide AB) in Epo (AEHCSLNENITVPDTKV) with activity similar to that of the holoprotein. This peptide induces differentiation and prevents cell death in both murine NS20Y and human SK-N-MC neuroblastoma cell lines. However, epopeptide AB does not promote the proliferation of erythropoietic cell lines or mouse primary spleen cells. The biological activities in neural cells were blocked by the addition of an antibody to the extracellular domain of the Epo receptor, indicating that the bioactive effects of epo-peptide AB in neural cells are Epo receptor mediated. Both epopeptide AB and Epo stimulated phosphorylation of ERKs in PC12 cells. When epopeptide AB or Epo was locally injected into mice, the frequency of motor end plate sprouting in adjacent muscles increased in a manner similar to that induced by CNTF. These findings indicate that neural cells and not hematological cells respond to a peptide sequence within erythropoietin and suggests that Epo may have separate domains for neurotrophic and hematotrophic function.
In the present study we investigated the capacity of human first trimester forebrain cells at different gestational ages to produce IFN-gamma and IL-4. We also studied the effects of IFN-gamma on their proliferation, survival and expression of MHC antigens. IFN-gamma but not IL-4 was spontaneously produced after 24 h cultures. Furthermore, IFN-gamma exhibited anti-proliferative effects and induced MHC expression on these cells. However, the IFN-gamma exposed cultures showed significantly higher cell survival compared to un-exposed cultures. Co-culture with IL-4 blocked the IFN-gamma production and reversed its anti-proliferative effects. These interactions suggest important roles for cytokines in the survival, proliferation and differentiation of human embryonic and fetal forebrain cells.
CDKN2/p16 inactivation is the most frequent alteration in the molecular regulation of G1-S transition. CDKN2/p16 homozygous deletions was studied in paraffin-embedded sections of 45 astrocytic tumours by multiplex PCR. Immunohistochemistry for p16 and proliferation marker Ki-67 MIB-1 was performed in adjacent sections; their labelling index (LI) have been calculated. CDKN2/p16 gene was not deleted in astrocytomas, while homozygous deletion was found in 26.7% anaplastic astrocytomas, and in 55.0% of glioblastomas. Analysis of CDKN2/p16 homozygous deletion in discrete areas of the same tumour, showed that the deletion occurred independently of the phenotypic aspect of the areas. Nevertheless a genotypic and phenotypic heterogeneity is present in few cases. p16 immunohistochemistry mostly corresponds to the genotypic pattern. No correlation was found between CDKN2/p16 homozygous deletion and MIB-1 LI.
Recent advances in knowledge of crystal structures of MHC class II molecules has advanced understanding of the molecular basis for interactions between peptides and HLA class II molecules. Polymorphism of HLA class II molecules influences structures of peptides bound to HLA class II molecules. To better understand mechanisms related to particular HLA class II alleles and autoimmune diseases, it is important to identify self-peptides presented by disease-susceptible HLA class II molecules and triggering disease-causative autoreactive T cells. Autoimmune diseases occur in Caucasians, Blacks and Asians, albeit with a different incidence. In some autoimmune diseases, disease-susceptible HLA class II alleles are closely related but different, and clinical manifestations of diseases differ among ethnic groups. These phenomena strongly suggest that difference in autoimmune self-peptide(s) in the context of disease-susceptible HLA class II molecules may explain the different clinical manifestations of diseases. Therefore, a comparison among disease-susceptible HLA class II alleles, autoimmune self-peptides and clinical manifestations of autoimmune diseases in different ethnic groups would be instructive. We directed efforts to determining: (1) HLA-class II alleles specific to Asian populations and which are associated with susceptibility to autoimmune diseases, (2) binding-peptide motifs for these HLA class II molecules, and (3) self-peptides presented by susceptible HLA class II molecules to stimulate autoreactive T cells related to the development of autoimmune diseases in Asians. In this review, our related recent investigations are described and the uniqueness of HLA class II-associated autoimmune diseases in Asians is given emphasis.

Since the 1970s, clinical interest in otolaryngology and audiology for both diagnosis and treatment of the symptom of tinnitus has witnessed the evolution of a new discipline: tinnitology. Tinnitology is an integrated discipline of basic sciences, neuroscience, and clinical medicine for the understanding of aberrant auditory phenomena unrelated to an external source of sound. To patients with subjective idiopathic tinnitus, nuclear medicine techniques of positron emission tomography and single-photon emission computed tomography provide correlation of structure and function, which improves the accuracy of the tinnitus diagnosis. Additionally, they provide a monitoring system to establish the efficacy of modalities of therapy attempting to provide tinnitus relief. Further, they provide information of neuroreceptors and neurochemistry in brain underlying or accompanying basic mechanism for production of specific clinical types and subtypes of tinnitus. This study reports the application of nuclear medicine techniques for a new clinical neuropharmacology protocol for tinnitus treatment highlighted by intratympanic drug therapy in predominantly cochlear-type tinnitus. We further report a neuroprotective drug therapy to control tinnitogenesis, an auditory epileptiform phenomenon. Additionally, we report the hypothesis of a benzodiazepine deficiency syndrome.
It is generally acknowledged that the anterior hypophysis is not directly regulated by neural elements. Our studies in the past decade, however, have demonstrated otherwise. The anterior pituitary gland has been found to be actually under neural-humoral dual regulation. The present article outlines the main data that have led us to this conclusion. Evidence that is related to direct neural regulation of the reproductive functions of the anterior hypophysis is provided in great detail. Thus, synapses have been demonstrated between the nerve fibers innervating the anterior pituitary gland and the gonadotropes and lactotropes. Furthermore, there is ultrastructural evidence indicating that synaptic activities may induce secretion of the gland cells. Hormone manipulation study shows that following ovariectomy there is a significant increase of nerve fibers in the anterior pituitary gland, which is related to plasma estrogen level.

We retrospectively investigated the relationship between major depression and silent cerebral infarction (SCI) over a 3-year period in 64 patients older than 50 years of age with unipolar depression. All patients underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at their first admission for depression and were classified into groups based on the presence or absence of SCI. The number of admissions due to depression was greater in the SCI (+) group (N = 32) than in the SCI (-) group (N = 32) (P &lt; 0.05). The incidences of delirium and neurological disorders were significantly higher in the SCI (+) group than in the SCI (-) group. Our findings suggest that patients with depression and SCI had a higher rate of hospitalization and were more likely to develop psychiatric and neurological disorders than patients with depression without SCI.


Vascular sympathetic neuroeffector associations have been examined in rat iris arterioles using serial section electron microscopy and reconstruction techniques. Examination of random sections showed that, of all profiles of varicosities (199) seen to lie closer than 4 microns to vascular smooth muscle cells, only a small proportion (29/199) were found in close association with vascular smooth muscle cells, where adjacent membranes were separated by less than 100 nm. However, serial section examination, from intervaricose region to intervaricose region, of 79 varicosities similarly observed lying within 4 microns of vascular smooth muscle cells showed that 54 formed close associations with vascular smooth muscle cells. In serial sections, all these varicosities were also closely associated with melanocytes and of the 25 remaining varicosities, 22 formed close associations with melanocytes alone, whilst 3 did not come into close association with any effector cell. The increased observation of close associations with vascular smooth muscle cells in serial sections, compared with random sections, is consistent with the demonstration that the area of contact only occupies, on average, a small percentage (5%) of the total surface area of the varicosity as seen in the 3-dimensional reconstructions. In both random and serial sections, close associations were observed between varicosities and vascular smooth muscle cells or melanocytes irrespective of whether fibres were present singly or in small nerve bundles. Three-dimensional reconstruction of associations of varicosities and vascular smooth muscle cells demonstrated several common features, such as accumulations of synaptic vesicles and loss of Schwann cell covering at the region of membrane facing the effector cell. The similarity in the appearance of the neuroeffector association seen in this study and those described in previous studies provides evidence for the existence of a common sympathetic neuroeffector association, irrespective of the receptor subtype involved in neurotransmission.
We examined the brain oxidative stress which accompanies 30 min of bilateral carotid artery ligation (BCAL) in terms of changes in brain levels of glutathione; reduced (GSH) and oxidized (GSSG) forms and the exacerbation of oxidative stress by disulfiram (DSF). These results indicate that BCAL alone decreases GSH content and limits glutathione reductase (GR) activity, and these changes were enhanced by DSF pretreatment. Similar observations were recorded with DSF alone. GR activity (74.3 +/- 4.0 micromol min(-1) mg(-1) tissue; p &lt; 0.001) and GSH content (1.23 +/- 0.06 micromol min(-1) g(-1) tissue; p &lt; 0.001) was attenuated in rats subjected to synergistic effect of BCAL and DSF with a concomitant increase of GSSG (0.006 +/- 0.006 micromol min(-1) g(-1) tissue; p &lt; 0.001). Recovery of GSH/GSSG level and GR activity during reperfusion following 30 min BCAL was considerably delayed (96 h) in the BCAL and DSF group as compared to the recovery time of 24 h in the group subjected to BCAL-reperfusion alone. Perturbation of GSH/GSSG homeostasis as a result of BCAL was augmented by DSF. These findings clearly demonstrate central nervous system oxidative stress due to a BCAL-DSF synergistic effect. Based on the results obtained with this model, we conclude that DSF increases brain oxidative stress and this may be detrimental to alcoholics who might drink and develop an acetaldehyde-induced hypotension while taking DSF.
Protein kinases play pivotal roles in the development of the nervous system. They are involved in almost every stage of neuronal development, from initial proliferation and differentiation of progenitor cells to pathfinding of neurites and formation of synapses. Activation of protein kinases is also critical for neuronal cell survival. To gain further insights into kinases in neural development, we studied the expression patterns of protein kinases in three cultured primary neurons by degenerate primer-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and DNA sequencing, taking advantage of all known kinases containing a conserved catalytic domain. Our data demonstrated that the expression patterns of kinases in various cultured neurons are not only different from those of non-neural tissues, but also distinct among neurons derived from discrete origins. For example, FGF receptor 1 is predominantly expressed in hippocampal neurons. As this approach may be biased during PCR and cloning steps, an RNase protection assay was employed to verify the expression levels of six kinases in cultured neurons. Results from the RNase protection assay did generally confirm those obtained by the PCR-based method. However, quantitative nature of the latter was dependent on numbers of clones analyzed, and discrepancy of expression levels of kinases detected by the two methods was sometimes observed.

Activation of endothelin (ET) receptor subtypes by various agonists causes an increase in [Ca2+]i in different cell types. This effect can be readily monitored in a 96-well plate format by detecting 1-s fluorescence changes of cell-permeant, Ca(2+)-sensitive dyes (e.g., Calcium Green-1 AM) using a fluorimetric imaging plate reader. This device was used to assess the ET receptor subtypes in primary cultures of rat mixed neocortical neuronal/glial cells and aortic smooth-muscle cells. Pharmacologic experiments with several ET receptor agonists and antagonists indicated that the ETA receptor subtype was functionally responsive in the smooth-muscle cells and that the ETB receptor subtype had a similar role in the mixed neuronal/glial cells.
We have previously shown that endothelin-B (ETB) receptors mediate contraction in human and rat pulmonary resistance arteries (PRAs). Here we characterize the endothelin (ET) receptors in rabbits PRAs. PRAs (approximately 150 microns i.d.) were studied using wire myography. Vasoconstrictor effects to ET-1, ET-3, and the ETB-selective agonist sarafotoxin S6c (S6c) were studied in the presence and absence of the ETA receptor antagonist FR139317, the ETB-selective antagonist BQ788, and the mixed ETA/ETB antagonist SB209670. The effect of SB209670 was also studied in human PRAs (approximately 250 microns i.d.). Competitive ET-1 binding studies were also carried out on rabbit small pulmonary artery homogenates. The potencies of the agonists were in the following order: S6c &gt; ET-3 = ET-1. Concentration-response curves (CRCs) to ET-1 were biphasic, with a gradual slope up to approximately 1 nM and a steeper component at higher concentrations of ET-1. Neither FR139317 (1 microM) nor BQ788 (1 microM) inhibited responses to ET-1. BQ788 inhibited S6c- and ET-3 induced contractions with pKb values of 6.8 +/- 0.1 and 6.3 +/- 0.2, respectively. SB209670 inhibited responses to ET-1 in the higher concentration component of the CRC and inhibited responses to S6c in a competitive fashion. pKb values for ET-1 and S6c were 6.8 +/- 0.2 and 7.5 +/- 1, respectively. SB209670 (0.1-1 microM) totally abolished responses to ET-1 in human PRAs. The binding assay established two ET binding sites in rabbit PRAs, one low affinity (Ki = 480 pM) and one high affinity (Ki = 64 fM). The study provides evidence for a heterogeneous population of ETB-like receptors in pulmonary resistance arteries, including an atypical ETB receptor sensitive to SB209670.
The effect of hypoxic shock on the ability of endothelin (ET) receptors to interact with the cAMP second messenger system was assessed in rat pulmonary arteries. Whole pieces of tissue were dissected from the pulmonary arterial system of control and hypoxic (10% O2, 14 days) rats, incubated, where appropriate, with ET-1 (0.1 microM), and the levels of intracellular cAMP measured. Maintenance of rats under hypoxic conditions significantly reduced the basal cAMP levels in all of the arterial branches with the exception of the pulmonary resistance vessels, in which no change was observed. Incubation of the main and first branch extralobar pulmonary arteries from control rats with ET-1 resulted in a consistent decrease in the levels of intracellular cAMP. The ETA receptor antagonist FR139317 partially blocked this ET-1-mediated inhibition of cAMP accumulation in the main extralobar artery. In contrast, ET-1 caused a threefold increase in the levels of this cyclic nucleotide in the pulmonary resistance vessels from the normoxic rat. No ET-1-mediated reduction in intracellular cAMP levels was observed in any of the vessels isolated from hypoxic animals. All vessels showed ligand-activated increases in cAMP production. These results suggest differential modulation of cAMP in the different pulmonary arteries, either by direct activation through Gi and Gs or indirectly via a uncharacterized cross-talk mechanism.
The cytokine and cell attachment protein osteopontin (OPN) is not necessary for the development and survival of mice in a clean animal facility. The primary role of OPN appears to be that of facilitating recovery of the organism after injury or infection, which generally causes an increase in its expression. It also is essential for some forms of bone remodeling. OPN stimulates cellular signaling pathways via various receptors found on most cell types and can encourage cell migration. OPN modulates immune and inflammatory responses and possibly negatively regulates Ras signaling pathways. Its apparent ability to enhance cell survival by inhibiting apoptosis may explain why the metastatic proficiency of tumor cells increases with increased OPN expression.
Conceptual and technological advances in cognitive neuroscience and molecular genetics have the potential to identify the pathogenesis of psychiatric disorders. This article reviews the application of these technologies to the scientific study of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. It begins with a summary of shifts in conceptualization and scientific study of this common condition. This is followed by a critical review of findings from recent cognitive, neuroimaging, and genetic studies. The available data do not yet permit an integration across these different levels of enquiry, but implicate problems in response inhibition, dysfunction of frontostriatal networks, and genetic factors in the pathogenesis of this complex behavioral phenotype. The review closes with suggestions for future interdisciplinary research.

The diversity of antidepressant mechanisms available today allows clinicians to individualize treatment decisions for depressive symptoms and subtypes, as well as to avoid side effects. The mechanism of action of antidepressants allows prediction of both adverse effects and therapeutic effects. Individual antidepressants have unique psychopharmacologic profiles, and individual patients have unique clinical profiles of different symptoms and depressive subtypes. By using this knowledge, the prescriber can match drug profiles with patient profiles to select preferred agents and avoid less preferred agents.
Estrogen exerts profound effects upon behavior by interacting with neuronal estrogen receptors. Changes in estrogen levels over a woman's life cycle are linked not only to behavioral fluctuations, but potentially to the onset or recurrence of mood disorders. The modern psychiatric evaluation of women requires obtaining a complete reproductive history, including details of hormone treatments, while identifying reproductive events as triggers of affective disorder episodes. While guidelines for the use of reproductive hormones in psychiatry are just evolving, administration of estrogen as an adjunct to antidepressants is an exciting possibility for expanding the frontiers of psychiatry into the field of women's health.
Distinct pharmacologic mechanisms allow the antidepressants to be separated into seven different classes. These basic pharmacologic concepts can explain not only the therapeutic actions, but also the side effects of the wide range of antidepressants currently available. The two classical mechanisms are those of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). The most widely prescribed agents are the serotonin selective reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Three other classes of antidepressants, like the SSRIs, increase serotonergic neurotransmission, but they also have additional actions, namely dual serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibition (venlafaxine); serotonin-2 antagonism/reuptake inhibition (nefazodone); and alpha2 antagonism plus serotonin-2 and -3 antagonism (mirtazapine). The selective norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor bupropion defines a novel class of antidepressant that has no direct actions on the serotonin system.
Nitric oxide (NO) is improbable as a conventional neurotransmitter. It is not an amine, amino acid, or peptide; it is not stored in synaptic vesicles or released by exocytosis; and it does not interact with specific receptor subtypes in neuronal membranes. However, NO is synthesized upon demand in the brain, diffuses to receptor sites within the enzyme guanylyl cyclase, and has neurotransmitter-like functions.
Features of virtually all voluntary movements are represented in the primary motor cortex. The movements can be ongoing, imminent, delayed, or imagined. Our goal was to investigate the dynamics of movement representation in the motor cortex. To do this we trained a fully recurrent neural network to continually output the direction and magnitude of movements required to reach randomly changing targets. Model neurons developed preferred directions and other properties similar to real motor cortical neurons. The key finding is that when the target for a reaching movement changes location, the ensemble representation of the movement changes nearly monotonically, and the individual neurons comprising the representation exhibit strong, nonmonotonic transients. These transients serve as internal recurrent signals that force the ensemble representation to change more rapidly than if it were limited by the time constants of individual neurons. These transients, if they exist, could be observed in experiments that require only slight modifications of the standard paradigm used to investigate movement representation in the motor cortex.
Neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) of the awake big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus, were examined for joint frequency and latency response properties which could register the timing of the bat's frequency-modulated (FM) biosonar echoes. Best frequencies (BFs) range from 10 kHz to 100 kHz with 50% tuning widths mostly from 1 kHz to 8 kHz. Neurons respond with one discharge per 2-ms tone burst or FM stimulus at a characteristic latency in the range of 3-45 ms, with latency variability (SD) of 50 microseconds to 4-6 ms or more. BF distribution is related to biosonar signal structure. As observed previously, on a linear frequency scale BFs appear biased to lower frequencies, with 20-40 kHz overrepresented. However, on a hyperbolic frequency (linear period) scale BFs appear more uniformly distributed, with little overrepresentation. The cumulative proportion of BFs in FM1 and FM2 bands reconstructs a scaled version of the spectrogram of FM broadcasts. Correcting FM latencies for absolute BF latencies and BF time-in-sweep reveals a subset of IC cells which respond dynamically to the timing of their BFs in FM sweeps. Behaviorally, Eptesicus perceives echo delay and phase with microsecond or even submicrosecond accuracy and resolution, but even with use of phase-locked FM and tone-burst stimuli the cell-by-cell precision of IC time-frequency registration seems inadequate by itself to account for the temporal acuity exhibited by the bat.

Adrenaline, forskolin and ATP all evoked accumulation of cyclic AMP in equine sweat gland epithelial cells, although the response to adrenaline was more transient than that to forskolin and ATP. Cells preincubated in adrenaline (10 micromol l-1, 32 min) showed essentially complete, homologous desensitisation, and this phenomenon reversed slowly (half-time 6.3+/-0.9 h). After 10 min of recovery from preincubation in adrenaline, isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX, 5 mmol l-1) had no effect upon the desensitisation and the cells showed no loss of sensitivity to ATP and forskolin. After 10 h, however, the persistent desensitisation was partially reversed by IBMX and the cells showed reduced responses to ATP and forskolin. Increased phosphodiesterase activity may thus contribute to the persistent desensitisation. Experiments using forskolin-preincubated (100 micromol l-1, 32 min) cells suggested that increased cytosolic cyclic AMP levels did not underlie the initial loss of sensitivity to adrenaline but that this second messenger may initiate the series of events leading to the generalised loss of sensitivity seen after 10 h.
It has been argued that operant conditioning is the only type of long-term memory present in infants prior to 6 months of age. In this study, memory for faces was investigated in 3- and 6-month-old infants with a visual paired-comparison task. In Experiment 1, infants were habituated to a face presented in different poses; recognition was assessed after a 2-min or a 24-hr retention interval. The 6-month-old infants and the male but not the female 3-month-old infants exhibited novelty preferences. A 2nd experiment showed that 3-month-old female infants were delayed relative to male infants in their face-processing ability rather than in their memory capacity. The results of Experiment 3 demonstrated in 3-month-olds an electrophysiological correlate of delayed recognition memory. These findings are discussed in the context of the neural systems thought to be involved in visual recognition memory (but not in procedural memory), namely the limbic system.
Voltage-gated Na+ channels exhibit two forms of inactivation, one form (fast inactivation) takes effect on the order of milliseconds and the other (slow inactivation) on the order of seconds to minutes. While previous studies have suggested that fast and slow inactivation are structurally independent gating processes, little is known about the relationship between the two. In this study, we probed this relationship by examining the effects of slow inactivation on a conformational marker for fast inactivation, the accessibility of a site on the Na+ channel III-IV linker that is believed to form a part of the fast inactivation particle. When cysteine was substituted for phenylalanine at position 1304 in the rat skeletal muscle sodium channel (microl), application of [2-(trimethylammonium)ethyl]methanethiosulfonate (MTS-ET) to the cytoplasmic face of inside-out patches from Xenopus oocytes injected with F1304C RNA dramatically disrupted fast inactivation and displayed voltage-dependent reaction kinetics that closely paralleled the steady state availability (hinfinity) curve. Based on this observation, the accessibility of cys1304 was used as a conformational marker to probe the position of the fast inactivation gate during the development of and the recovery from slow inactivation. We found that burial of cys1304 is not altered by the onset of slow inactivation, and that recovery of accessibility of cys1304 is not slowed after long (2-10 s) depolarizations. These results suggest that (a) fast and slow inactivation are structurally distinct processes that are not tightly coupled, (b) fast and slow inactivation are not mutually exclusive processes (i.e., sodium channels may be fast- and slow-inactivated simultaneously), and (c) after long depolarizations, recovery from fast inactivation precedes recovery from slow inactivation.
The recent successes of large, multicenter clinical trials of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors for symptomatic treatment of Alzheimer's disease have spawned enthusiasm that this common and fatal neurologic disease is &quot;treatable.&quot; A parallel explosion has occurred in the consumption of alternative medicines by the public seeking more effective, natural, or safer methods for treatment of dementia. Some of these medicines may, in fact, be biologically active in modulating the disease as well as producing side effects and interactions with accepted pharmaceuticals. This review brings to focus the scientific evidence presently available regarding such agents.
Substance P receptor-like immunoreactive (SPR-LI) structures and changes following intravenous injection of vasopressin in the medullary visceral zone (MVZ) of the rat were studied by using immunohistochemical methods. In normal control rats the distribution of SPR-LI structure in MVZ generally matched with that of immunostaining against substance P (SP-LI) except in some areas. SPR-LI neurons and dendrites differed in size and shape in different areas of MVZ. Their dendrites could be classified into three types, i.e, wool-shaped, smooth and varicose. Some SPR-LI neurons were also positive for tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity (TH-LI) . After administration of vasopressin SPR-LI structures became denser, especially at levels of pyramidal decussation (PYX) and area postrema (AP). The dendrites of motor dorsal nucleus of X (NMDX) in the dorsal part of MVZ appeared thin and straight in morphology instead of curl and thick outlooks. These results implicate that some SPR-LI neurons might be involved in the modulation of the cardiovascular stress induced by vasopressin.
To characterize the nature of autoimmune disease-inducing T cells in the target organ, oligoclonal expansion of spinal cord T cells of Lewis rats with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was examined by complementarity-determining region 3 (CDR3) size spectratyping. It is known that TCR of in vitro-established myelin basic protein-specific T cell clones and lines have a short CDR3 and that the amino acid sequence in this region is highly preserved. On the basis of these findings, we analyzed 22 spectratypes of the TCR beta-chain (Vbeta1-20). Among them, only Vbeta8.2 and Vbeta17 showed oligoclonal expansion of TCR with a short CDR3 at the early stage of EAE. More interestingly, the spectratype profile of Vbeta8.2 seen at the early stage was preserved throughout the course of EAE, whereas that of Vbeta17 became more diverse at the peak stage of the disease. Analysis of nucleotide and predicted amino acid sequences of Vbeta8.2 CDR3 derived from the spectratypes revealed that the clones with CASSDSSYEQYFGPG, which is one of the representative sequences of encephalitogenic T cell clones, constituted the predominant population not only at the early stage but also at the peak and recovery stages (71, 71, and 60%, respectively). These findings imply that although the phenotype of T cells in the target organ diversifies as the autoimmune disease progresses, disease-associated TCR spectratype(s) are preserved throughout the course of the disease. Thus, CDR3 size spectratyping is a powerful tool for the screening of disease-inducing T cells in an autoimmune disease of unknown pathomechanism.
Neuropsychiatric symptoms of hyperammonaemia include alterations of mood and personality, cognitive impairment, ataxia, convulsions and coma. The nature and severity of CNS dysfunction depend upon the aetiology and degree of hyperammonaemia, its acuteness of onset and the age of the patient. Neuropathological studies reveal Alzheimer type II astrocytosis in the adult hyperammonaemic patient, whereas hyperammonaemia in the infant resulting from congenital urea cycle disorders or Reye syndrome is accompanied by cerebral atrophy, neuronal loss and cerebral oedema. Several electrophysiological and biochemical mechanisms have been proposed to explain the deleterious effects of ammonia on CNS function. Such mechanisms include direct effects of the ammonium ion on excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission and a deficit in cerebral energy metabolism due to ammonia-induced inhibition of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase. In addition, ammonia has been shown to interfere with normal processes of uptake, storage and release of various neurotransmitters. Ammonia disrupts monoamine storage, inhibits the high-affinity uptake of glutamate by both astrocytic and neuronal elements and activates 'peripheral-type' benzodiazepine receptors leading to the potential synthesis of neuroactive steroids in brain. On the basis of these actions, it has been proposed that ammonia disrupts neuron-astrocyte trafficking of amino acids and monoamines in brain. The increased formation of brain glutamine in hyperammonaemic syndromes could be responsible for the phenomenon of brain oedema in these disorders. Therapies aimed at either decreasing ammonia production in the gastrointestinal tract or increasing ammonia removal by liver or skeletal muscle are the mainstay in the prevention and treatment of the CNS consequences of hyperammonaemia. New therapeutic approaches aimed at correction of the neurotransmitter and cerebral energy deficits in these syndromes could hold promise for the future.
Wound fluid contains several proteinases that are important in the repair process. In this study, we analyzed caseinolytic activity in wound fluid obtained from acute (burn) wounds. Caseinolytic activity in wound fluid increased markedly 2 d after injury and appeared on casein zymographs as a series of bands or a smear ranging from 30 to 100 kDa. Most of the enzyme activity was inhibited by the synthetic human neutrophil elastase inhibitor MDL 27,367 but not by the naturally occurring inhibitor of elastase, human secretory leukoproteinase inhibitor. Fractionation of wound fluid indicated that a single enzyme accounted for approximately 80% of the caseinolytic activity. This enzyme degraded the elastase substrate methoxysuccinyl-ala-ala-pro-val-p-nitroanilide at a slow rate. The above findings suggested that the enzyme responsible for caseinolytic activity might be proteinase 3, an elastase-related enzyme whose physiologic functions are poorly understood. Consistent with the above possibility, we found that monoclonal antibodies against proteinase 3 removed caseinolytic activity from wound fluid, and that purified proteinase 3 had a similar caseinolytic profile and inhibitor sensitivity to burn fluid.
The activity of methionine adenosyltransferase (MAT) was investigated in erythrocytes and postmortem brain specimens (cortex gyrus frontalis, hippocampus and thalamus) of patients with schizophrenia treated with neuroleptics. In comparison with the control group, abnormally low values of MAT Vmax and an increased MAT affinity towards methionine (lower Km values) were found in erythrocytes. In the brain, a regionally selective decrease of MAT Km was found in cortex gyrus frontalis but the Vmax values were however, unchanged. In the regions of cortex gyrus frontalis and hippocampus, but not in thalamus, the values of Vmax and Km were inversely correlated with the duration of schizophrenia. In rats treated for 28 days with the typical neuroleptic haloperidol and the atypical clozapine, a significant increase of MAT activity was found in the corpus striatum. There is the possibility that the changes observed in MAT activity in patients with schizophrenia are attributed to the neuroleptic medication.
Brain tissue obtained at autopsy continues to provide unique opportunities in current dementia research. Not only is tissue analysis still essential for diagnosis, but investigation of neurochemical pathology, at a level of resolution beyond current in vivo imaging, continues to provide new insights into the involvement of neurotransmitter signalling systems. These are relevant to therapy which, with respect to symptoms such as cognitive impairment, psychosis and depression, is currently targeted to specific transmitter (cholinergic, dopaminergic and serotonergic) systems. This paper focuses on dopaminergic, cholinergic and histaminergic parameters in Alzheimer's disease (AD), Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Parkinson's disease (PD). In the normal striatum the dopamine transporter and D2 receptor exhibit distinct rostral-caudal distributions and D2 binding is affected by genetic polymorphism at the Taq 1A locus. The transporter is reduced in both DLB and PD but not AD, correlating with severity of extrapyramidal dysfunction, and receptor abnormalities are apparent in DLB patients responding adversely to neuroleptics. Striatal nicotine receptors are lost in all 3 disorders, further reduced as a result of neuroleptic medication, and elevated as a result of tobacco use. In the thalamus there are selective reductions in presynaptic cholinergic activity in DLB in the reticular nucleus which relate to symptoms of hallucinations and fluctuating consciousness prevalent in this disorder. In the hippocampus coupling of muscarinic M1 receptors, relevant to response to cholinergic therapy, is impaired in areas most affected by beta-amyloid plaques and intact in less affected areas. Analysis of histamine H2 receptors indicates that, despite presynaptic histamine abnormalities in AD, receptor numbers are normal. Such clinically and therapeutically relevant observations on human brain neurochemistry provide a basis for improving therapeutic strategies and prospects of diagnostic in vivo chemical imaging.
In dementia disorders, it can be assumed that the pathological process in the brain has been present for a long time. It is therefore of importance to have a preclinical or an early clinical diagnosis. Obviously, vulnerability genes, such as ApoE-4, can be diagnosed preclinically. As we have no treatment to offer patients with genetic risk factors, genotyping for ApoE-4 is at present of no clinical use. Trained neuropsychologists have today access to sensitive tests which reveal cognitive impairment before the disturbances reach the level of dementia. Laboratory investigations of cerebrospinal fluid have so far yielded no great results. Tau protein appears to be the most sensitive marker, but it is unspecific. Chromogranin A separates early onset from late onset Alzheimer's disease and seems to be a marker for synaptic degeneration. Synaptotagmin was also found to be reduced in patients with early onset Alzheimer's disease. Still we do not know, however, whether these proteins are early markers for degenerative processes in the brain. Laboratory investigations of blood have not yielded markers of use in early or differential diagnosis of dementia disorders. In a study at our own institute, however, we found serum-homocysteine (S-HCY) to be an early and sensitive marker for cognitive impairment. In patients with dysmentia (mild cognitive impairment), no less than 39% had pathological S-HCY levels, indicating insufficient 1-carbon metabolism.
The loss of neocortical synapses that occurs in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been shown to correlate with cognitive decline. In addition, marked losses in the cholinergic system in AD, specifically choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity and high affinity presynaptic neuronal nicotinic cholinergic receptors (nAChRs), have also been described. We hypothesized that in AD, the loss of [3H]-ligand binding to nAChRs, which are largely presynaptic, would correlate with changes in two other presynaptic markers: synaptophysin (Syn), a measure of synaptic density, and ChAT activity. The midfrontal (MF) cortex of 36 autopsy confirmed (NIA and CERAD criteria) AD patients (mean death age +/- SD 80.1 +/- 8.4 years) who met NINDS-ADRDA criteria for a clinical diagnosis of probable or possible AD, and 11 nondemented controls (mean death age +/- SD 77.9 +/- 8.0) were examined. Synapse counts were quantified by a dotimmunobinding assay for Syn. ChAT activity was assessed by standard biochemical assays. Nicotinic cholinergic receptor binding was assayed using the high affinity nicotinic agonist [3H]-(+/-)-epibatidine ([3H]-EPI). The mean +/- SD Syn in AD (83.4 +/- 31.9 arbitrary units (AU)/mg protein) was significantly lower than controls (126.1 +/- 19.9, p = 0.0003; t-test). The mean ChAT activity in AD (139.0 +/- 75.6 nmol ACh/hr/100 mg protein) was significantly lower than controls (219.6 +/- 70.8, p = 0.004). The mean [3H]-EPI total binding in AD (6.2 +/- 2.8 fmol/mg protein) was significantly lower than controls (14.8 +/- 3.2; p &lt; 0.0001). Syn correlated with [3H]-EPI binding in AD (r = 0.48, p = 0.006; Pearson) but ChAT did not (r = -0.20, p = 0.34). We conclude that loss of high affinity nAChR binding correlates with loss of synapses in AD. The lack of correlation between [3H]-EPI binding and ChAT activity suggests that the targeted receptor populations may not be located exclusively on cholinergic neurons.
Recurrent, feedback excitation by sprouted mossy fibers may contribute to the hyperexcitability observed in human temporal lobe epilepsy. Observations in rodent models of epilepsy mimic the findings in human tissue and reveal that dentate granule cells sprout axons which innervate fibers in their own dendritic layer. However, recent evidence in rodents suggest that these sprouted fibers may form connections which cause inhibition of dentate granule cells, not excitation. Thus, the net effect of sprouting in human epileptic tissue may not only be recurrent excitation. We analyzed paired pulse depression in dentate slices from 9 patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and found evidence for strong feedback inhibition. We also noted failure of high frequency stimulation induced inhibition in our human specimens. These data challenge the concept that human epileptic dentate granule cells are excited by recurrent mossy fiber sprouting.
We investigated plasma dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) and cortisol levels in 12 patients with unipolar depression and 11 matched normal controls. The depressed patients showed significantly higher values of plasma DHEAS and cortisol than the controls. After 4 weeks of treatment with antidepressants (mainly clomiplamine), the high plasma DHEAS levels recovered. This finding showed the possible relationship between plasma DHEAS levels and depression, as well as cortisol levels.
We examined the effects of kynurenine metabolites administered into the right cerebroventricle (1 micromol) on the electrocorticogram (ECoG) of rats to establish the role of kynurenines on brain function. Kynurenine, anthranilic acid, quinaldic acid, xanthurenic acid or 8-hydroxyquinaldic acid showed no effect on ECoG throughout the recording period of 4 hours. 3-Hydroxykynurenine had a transient suppressive effect on the ECoG, while kynurenic acid caused a slight suppression of ECoG activity. 3-Hydroxyanthranilic acid (3-OH-An), a metabolite of 3-hydroxykynurenine, induced spike discharges with a long latency (60-230 min). 3-OH-An is thought to be metabolized to o-aminophenol, 3-methoxyanthranilic acid, quinolinic acid, 2-ketoadipic acid and picolinic acid. Among 3-OH-An metabolites, only o-aminophenol induced spike discharges several minutes after administration, lasting for 60 min. On the other hand, quinolinic acid suppressed ECoG, though 3-methoxyanthranilic acid, 2-ketoadipic acid and picolinic acid had no effects on ECoG. These electrocorticographic findings suggest that 3-OH-An may induce spike discharges after it is metabolized in the brain to o-aminophenol.
Microtubule-associated protein tau is abnormally hyperphosphorylated in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). In vitro studies have shown that protein phosphatases PP-2A and PP-2B can convert Alzheimer like tau to its normal state and that the activities of PP-1, PP-2A, and phosphotyrosyl-protein phosphatase (PTP) are reduced in AD brain. However, to have a direct effect on the regulation of phosphorylation on tau, these enzymes have to exist in neurons. Using specific polyclonal antibodies the levels of protein phosphatases PP-1, PP-2A, and PP-2B were determined by indirect ELISA in superior temporal cortical gray matter of AD and control brains. The protein levels of PP-2A and PP-2B were significantly increased in postsynaptosomal supernatant 2 (S2) of the AD group, and this alteration showed a significant linear correlation with levels of hyperphosphorylated tau. PP-1 and PTP-1B levels were not significantly changed in any of the AD fractions. Because of the large variation from case to case, the activity levels of none of the phosphatases investigated were significantly different between the AD and control groups. However, the PP-2B specific activity (activity/protein) showed a significant linear inverse correlation with hyperphosphorylated tau. These studies suggest that any attempt by the AD brain to compensate for the decreased tau phosphatase activity remains unsuccessful and that the decrease in phosphatase activity might contribute to increased levels of abnormally phosphorylated tau.
The hypothesis that mild cognitive impairment (MCI) represents an early stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD) was investigated by reviewing recent research from three sources: asymptomatic and symptomatic individuals carrying mutations that cause AD, hospital-samples of non-demented patients with MCI at the initial examination that are followed longitudinally, and community-based incident cases of AD. Studies with asymptomatic mutation carriers of the amyloid precursor protein and presenilin 1 gene have shown a linear and disease-related decline in most cognitive functions that begins approximately 10 years before the expected clinical onset of AD. However, there is considerable overlap between the level of impairment for mutation carriers and non-carriers of the same age during the early preclinical stage of AD. Hospital-based longitudinal studies have shown that non-demented individuals with isolated mild episodic memory impairment may develop clinically diagnosed AD with widespread cognitive deficits in a few years time. Community-based epidemiological studies on the incidence of AD demonstrate that indices of episodic memory, in addition to measures of general cognitive functioning, are useful in predicting early AD. In contrast, subjective memory impairment or age-associated memory impairment are less powerful predictors of future dementia development. In summary, there is converging evidence to demonstrate that preclinical AD is characterized by a common behavioral phenotype, with cognitive decline in several domains, predominantly in episodic memory. The decline appears to start many years before the clinical onset of AD. Moreover, the progression of the impairment appears to be continuous. Finally, this pattern of performance generalizes across etiology of AD (familial or sporadic), clinical onset (early or late), sample composition (hospital or community), and method of assessment.
Current treatment approaches in Alzheimer's disease are primarily symptomatic, with the major therapeutic strategy based on acetylcholinesterase inhibition. Alzheimer's disease research should advance over ensuing decade(s) to yield better symptomatic therapies, drugs designed to slow the rate of progression, and disease preventing agents. The next generation of cholinergic agents will include long acting cholinesterase inhibitors with a good safety profile and brain specific muscarinic agonists. The most critical advances in Alzheimer's disease treatment, however, will target slowing of disease progression and prevention of dementia. Therapeutic agents are being developed that interfere with the synthesis, deposition and aggregation of beta-amyloid protein. Clinical trials are presently being conducted with small molecules having nerve growth factor like activity (e.g. AIT-082, cerebrolysin). In addition, estrogen, anti-inflammatory agents (e.g. cyclooxygenase inhibitors) and antioxidant approaches (e.g. vitamin E) are currently being proposed or utilized in disease prevention trials.
In view of existing drugs (acetylcholine esterase inhibitors) and emerging therapeutic compounds (e.g. neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory compounds), CSF markers would be of great use to improve the clinical diagnostic accuracy of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Correct identification of AD would be especially important early in the course of the disease, when the clinical diagnosis is difficult, and drugs have the greatest potential of being effective. Biochemical markers for AD include ApoE genotyping, where the ApoE epsilon 4 allele has proven to have a high predictive value for AD. Biochemical markers for AD also include several potential cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) markers: beta-amyloid(1-42), possibly reflecting amyloid deposition and formation of senile plaques; PHFtau protein a marker for the phosphorylation state of tau, and formation of neurofibrillary tangles; (total)tau protein, a normal axonal protein, as a marker for ongoing neuronal and axonal degeneration; synaptic vesicle proteins, e.g. synaptotagmin, a synaptic vesicle protein which is found in the CSF, as markers for synaptic activity or degeneration; neuromodulin or growth-associated protein GAP-43, as a marker for synaptic degeneration, and the CSF/serum albumin ratio, as a marker for blood-brain barrier damage, used to exclude patients with concomitant cerebrovascular pathology. However, although CSF markers may identify different pathogenic processes in AD, there is no such process that is specific for AD, and thus little hope of ever finding a single CSF biochemical marker that gives an absolute discrimination between AD and other dementia disorders. Instead, combination of several CSF biochemical markers, each reflecting a pathogenic process, may increase both the sensitivity and specificity. Further, the accuracy of the clinical diagnosis of AD may increase if the diagnosis is based on the summarised information gained from the clinical examination, brain-imaging techniques (SPECT, CT/MRT scans), and biochemical markers. Using this approach, CSF markers have a large potential to help to differentiate AD from the most problematic differential diagnoses, especially age-associated memory impairment, depressive pseudo-dementia, Parkinson's disease, and frontal lobe dementia.
CSF levels of proteins related to the lesions of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) may be informative. These include the microtubule-associated protein tau, an integral component of neurofibrillary tangles, and A beta, a 4kDa protein that accumulates in senile plaque amyloid. Many studies have found that CSF tau is increased in AD compared to normal controls (NC). CSF tau may be increased in a minority of patients with destructive neurological disorders or several neurodegenerative conditions, making its use in differential diagnosis less clear. CSF tau consists of fragments that lack extensive phosphorylation. CSF levels of A beta species ending at residue 40 are unchanged in AD. However species ending at residue 42 (A beta 42) are significantly decreased in AD compared to NC. Decreased A beta 42 may be found in patients with other dementias, some of whom may harbor AD pathology. Simultaneous measurement of CSF A beta 42 and tau may improve discrimination between AD and NC, and may facilitate the diagnosis of early stage AD.
Neurodegenerative disorders are characterized by damage to selective neuronal populations that could be followed or preceded by synaptic injury. Therefore, specific mutations in and other alterations of synaptic proteins might lead to particular neurodegenerative diseases. The predominant hypothesis is that these mutations result in an increased production of amyloid beta-protein 1-42 which acts as a neurotoxin. However, it could also be postulated that amyloid precursor protein might play an important role in synaptic function and neuronal maintenance and that its abnormal activity may lead to neurodegeneration. Recent studies have shown that amyloid precursor protein has an important role in regulating glutamate levels at the synaptic site by modulating the activity of glutamate transporters. The objectives of this manuscript are to highlight recent data supporting the hypothesis that neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease might be the combined result of abnormal protective activity of amyloid precursor protein and amyloid beta-protein toxicity.
The strongest physical correlate with the severity of dementia in Alzheimer's disease and its most rational cause are the loss of neocortical and hippocampal synapses. Evidence, showing that beta-amyloid causes that loss is weak despite the popularity of that hypothesis. Other changes can better explain that damaging phenomenon. Axonal terminals are dependent on axoplasmic flow, and that function requires intact microtubules and the motor proteins kinesin, dynein and dynamin. It has been known since the earliest electron microscopic studies of AD that neuronal microtubules are lessened in number. Tubules are normally in equilibrium with unpolymerized tubulin, and the stability of the formed elements is dependent on normal binding of tau to the tubule. But, as is well known, tau is abnormally hyperphosphorylated in AD leading to tangle formation and to dissolution of the tubules. Tangles are insufficient in number to account for the cortical loss of neurons and synapses, but hyperphosphorylated tau in the unpolymerized pre-tangle state undoubtedly plays a role. Abnormalities in the motor proteins are now being investigated (some have already been found) and these too would contribute to the loss of synapses in AD by way diminished axoplasmic flow.

Striatal extracellular fluid concentrations of dopamine and metabolites in response to direct striatal administration of two L-DOPA boluses administered sequentially were determined in three rhesus monkeys during halothane anesthesia. Whereas in an initial microdialysis run, generation of dopamine was less following the second L-DOPA bolus than the first, in a subsequent run, in which the selective MAO-B inhibitor R(+)-N-propargyl-1-aminoindan (rasagiline) was administered systemically (0.2 mg/kg s.c.) between the two L-DOPA boluses, generation of dopamine was greater following the second bolus.



The alpha7 subunit of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, when expressed in Xenopus oocytes, forms homooligomeric ligand-gated ion channels that are blocked by a snake toxin, alpha-bungarotoxin. The amino-terminal extracellular domain of the alpha7 sequence has three consensus sites for asparagine-linked glycosylation (N46DS, N90MS, and N133AS). In this study, we show that alpha7 expressed either in vivo or in vitro is a glycoprotein of 57 kDa. In addition, we demonstrate by site-directed mutagenesis that all three consensus sites are used for glycosylation. To elucidate the role(s) of asparagine-linked glycosylation in the formation and function of the alpha7 receptor, wild-type and glycosylation-deficient alpha7 subunits were expressed in COS cells and oocytes. We examined biochemical and physiological properties of expressed receptors and found that alpha7 glycosylation mutations do not affect homooligomerization and surface protein expression of the alpha7 receptor but do affect surface expression of alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites and the function of the receptor. Our data indicate that asparagine-linked glycosylation is required for the expression of a functional alpha7 receptor in oocytes.
The role of protein kinase C (PKC) in modulating the release of the octapeptide cholecystokinin (CCK-8) was investigated in rat hippocampal nerve terminals (synaptosomes). The PKC-activating phorbol ester 4beta-phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (beta-PDBu) dose dependently (5-5,000 nM) increased CCK-8 release in a strictly Ca2+dependent way. This effect was observed only when synaptosomes were stimulated with the K+(A) channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP; 1 mM) but not with KCl (10-30 mM). The PDBu-induced exocytosis of CCK-8 was completely blocked by the two selective PKC inhibitors chelerythrine and calphostin-C and was not mimicked by alpha-PDBu, an inactive phorbol ester. In addition, an analogue of the endogenous PKC activator diacylglycerol, oleoylacetylglycerol, dose dependently increased CCK-8 exocytosis. Beta-PDBu (50-100 nM) also stimulated the 4-AP-evoked Ca2+-dependent release of the classic transmitter GABA, which co-localizes with CCK-8 in hippocampal interneurons. As a possible physiological trigger for PKC activation, the role of the metabotropic glutamate receptor was investigated. However, the broad receptor agonist (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid did not stimulate, but instead inhibited, both the CCK-8 and the GABA exocytosis. In conclusion, presynaptic PKC may stimulate exocytosis of distinct types of co-localizing neurotransmitters via modulation of presynaptic K+ channels in rat hippocampus.
Cyclin-dependent kinase-5 (cdk-5) is a serine/threonine kinase that displays neurone-specific activity. Experimental manipulation of cdk-5 expression in neurones has shown that cdk-5 is essential for proper development of the nervous system and, in particular, for outgrowth of neurites. Such observations suggest that cdk-5 activity must be tightly controlled during development of the nervous system. To identify possible regulators of cdk-5, we used the yeast two-hybrid system to search for proteins that interact with cdk-5. In two independent yeast transformation events, cyclin D2 interacted with cdk-5. Immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that cyclin D2 and cdk-5 interact in mammalian cells. Cyclin D2 did not activate cdk-5 as assayed using three different substrates, which was in contrast to a known cdk-5 activator, p35. However, cyclin D2 expression led to a decrease in cdk-5/p35 activity in transfected cells. As cyclin D2 and cdk-5 are known to share overlapping patterns of expression during development of the CNS, the results presented here suggest a role for cyclin D2 in modulating cdk-5 activity in postmitotic developing neurones.
Awake gerbils were subjected to 5 min of forebrain ischemia by clamping the carotid arteries for 5 min and then allowing recirculation. Radiolabeled arachidonic or palmitic acid was infused intravenously for 5 min at the start of recirculation, after which the brains were prepared for quantitative autoradiography or chemical analysis. Dilution of specific activity of the acyl-CoA pool was independently determined for these fatty acids in control gerbils and following 5 min of ischemia and 5 min of reperfusion. Using a quantitative method for measuring regional in vivo fatty acid incorporation into and turnover within brain phospholipids and determining unlabeled concentrations of acyl-CoAs following recirculation, it was shown that reperfusion after 5 min of ischemia was accompanied by a threefold increase compared with the control in the rate of reincorporation of unlabeled arachidonate that had been released during ischemia, whereas reincorporation of released palmitate was not different from the control. Selective and accelerated reincorporation of arachidonate into brain phospholipids shortly after ischemia may ameliorate specific deleterious effects of arachidonate and its metabolites on brain membranes.
The mechanisms of selective neuronal loss after short-term global ischemia remain undefined, but processes including increased proteolytic activity, impaired protein synthesis, and oxidative damage have been proposed to contribute. A decrease in activity of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex in the dorsolateral striatum, an ischemia-susceptible region, is one change apparently differentiating this region from ischemia-resistant areas during early recirculation. To provide an insight into processes contributing to postischemic cell damage, the changes in the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex during early recirculation have been further characterized. These studies provide clear confirmation that the activity of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex is reduced in mitochondria from the dorsolateral striatum by 3 h of recirculation. The decrease in activity was not accompanied by a loss of antigenic sites or by changes in electrophoretic mobility of the components of the complex. A reduction in activity of the E1 component of the complex (39-42% decrease), but not the E2 and E3 components, was observed that was apparently sufficient to explain the decrease in activity of the whole complex. These results indicate that the changes in activity of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex in the dorsolateral striatum are not due to loss or gross disruption of the constituent proteins but rather most likely reflect a selective inactivation of a specific component of the complex.
Amphetamine or selective D1 and D2 dopamine receptor agonists and antagonists were administered to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) through a microdialysis probe to determine their effects on glutamate and aspartate efflux in rats pretreated for 5 days with vehicle or 5 mg/kg (+)-amphetamine sulfate. In vehicle rats, glutamate efflux declined during 2 h of perfusion with the D1 receptor agonist SKF-82958 (10 and 100 microM). After SKF-82958 perfusion ended, glutamate efflux rebounded to basal levels and continued to increase gradually over the next 2 h. A similar biphasic pattern was observed with intra-VTA amphetamine (10 and 100 microM) and with another D1 agonist (100 microM SKF-38393). The biphasic effects of SKF-82958 were prevented by coperfusion with a D1 antagonist (SCH-23390; 30 microM). Glutamate efflux was unaffected by a D2 agonist (100 microM quinpirole) and by D1 or D2 antagonists administered alone (SCH 23390 and eticlopride; 30 microM). In amphetamine-pretreated rats tested 2 days after the last injection, both the decrease during SKF-82958 perfusion and the delayed increase in glutamate efflux were attenuated. In rats tested 12-14 days after the last amphetamine injection, only the decrease during SKF-82958 perfusion was attenuated. None of these drug treatments produced consistent effects on aspartate efflux. We showed previously that systemic amphetamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) has no immediate effect on VTA glutamate efflux but produces a delayed increase in glutamate efflux that reaches statistical significance 2-3 h after injection. Because behavioral sensitization can be elicited either by repeated systemic or repeated intra-VTA administration, neurochemical effects common to both routes (such as the delayed increase in glutamate efflux) are most likely to contribute to its induction.
A previous study using the in situ hybridization technique showed that serotonin neurons contain substantially more GTP cyclohydrolase I mRNA than do either dopamine or norepinephrine neurons. The objective of the current study was to determine whether these differences in mRNA abundance are predictive of the amount of GTP cyclohydrolase I protein available for tetrahydrobiopterin biosynthesis. The double-label immunofluorescence technique was used to localize GTP cyclohydrolase I protein to the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive A9 dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra and the A6 norepinephrine neurons of the locus ceruleus or the tryptophan hydroxylase-positive B6/B7 serotonin neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus. Although GTP cyclohydrolase I immunofluorescence within serotonin and norepinephrine neurons was relatively intense, the fluorescence signal within dopamine neurons was faint to nondetectable. An immunoautoradiographic technique was developed to quantify these apparent differences in GTP cyclohydrolase I protein expression at the cellular level. Significant differences between all three neurochemical subdivisions were found and comparisons showed that on average serotonin neurons contain between 2.3- and 7.3-fold more GTP cyclohydrolase I protein than do either norepinephrine or dopamine neurons, respectively. Nigrostriatal dopamine neurons thus appear to synthesize and maintain tetrahydrobiopterin at low levels. Because dopamine and norepinephrine neurons express essentially equal amounts of GTP cyclohydrolase I mRNA, posttranscriptional events may serve to maintain low levels of GTP cyclohydrolase I protein within dopamine neurons. Phenotypic differences in GTP cyclohydrolase I protein expression across populations of monoamine neurons may be an important control point in neurotransmitter biosynthesis.
Paired helical filaments (PHFs) constitute the majority of filaments in neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), an Alzheimer's disease (AD) characteristic. PHFs consists of two filaments helically twisted around one another in a regular pattern. The effects of possible PHF-inducing candidates, namely aluminium and glutamate, were observed at the ultrastructural level in this investigation. Rat cerebral explants were exposed to aluminium, citric acid and glutamate singly or combined from 7-12 days in vitro (DIV), while control explants remained in basal medium. On 12 DIV, explants were processed for EM. Three-four EM explants were serially sectioned per condition. Ten 60 nm sections from five systematically sampled areas per explant were collected. One section was randomly chosen per sampled area and all neurons within it observed at 81,200x to record the presence of accumulations of curved filaments (CFs), straight filaments (SFs) or PHFs. Using stereological methods, absolute numbers and the percentage incidence of CFs and SFs were calculated. A significant increase in the frequency of neurons containing CF aggregations in aluminium explants compared to glutamate explants was found. There were no significant differences between conditions for neurons containing SF accumulations. Possible PHFs were observed in one aluminium/glutamate-treated explant. These results suggest that aluminium alone can cause significant formation of accumulations of C- or S-shaped CFs, some of which are double-stranded and twisted around one another regularly. However, structures that were possibly PHF-like were only observed in one aluminium-treated explant, thus making it premature to draw an association between aluminium and the induction of AD-like pathology.
Alzheimer's disease is thought to be characterized by conformational and phosphorylation changes in tau protein, leading to the formation of aggregations of paired helical filaments within neurons. Potential agents for inducing conformational changes in tau, namely aluminium and glutamate, were investigated in this study. Explant cultures of cortical neurons were established from embryonic day 17 rat fetuses. Cultures were exposed to aluminium, glutamate, aluminium/glutamate, aluminium/citric acid and citric acid (since aluminium is thought to enter cells via the transferrin receptor by complexing with citric acid) from 7-12 days in vitro. Control explants were exposed to basal medium only. On day 12, explants were paraffin-embedded. Four-six explants were serially sectioned per condition. For each explant, every 10th and adjacent 4 microm section were randomly selected and processed, with controls, for: (1) alcoholic morin histochemistry (to detect intracellular aluminium), (2) Perls' iron histochemistry (to control for the morin stain which also detects iron), (3) neurofilament immunohistochemistry (to estimate total neuronal number per explant) and (4) Alz-50 immunohistochemistry (to detect possible conformational changes in tau). The absolute number of stained/immunoreactive neurons was determined per explant. The percentage incidence was then determined per explant and averaged per condition. Explants in the aluminium conditions contained significant increases in the incidence of morin-positive aluminium containing neurons. There was also a significant increase in the incidence of Alz-50 positive neurons for the aluminium compared with control explants. These results suggest: (1) aluminium enters neurons and (2) aluminium alone induces possible conformational changes in tau as detected by the Alz-50 antibody, while aluminium combined with glutamate, or glutamate alone, do not.
Neuroblastoma cells are widely utilized models for the study of the neuritic outgrowth phase of neuronal differentiation, but relatively few such studies have attempted to identify the nature of the process outgrowths. This identification will be necessary in developing strategies for utilizing these models to distinguish the underlying mechanisms involved in axonogenesis vs dendritogenesis. In an effort to identify procedures for inducing specific types of neurite outgrowth, and for distinguishing axon- from dendrite-like processes, we have subjected two neuroblastoma cell lines to a variety of stimuli previously shown to induce neurite outgrowth in these cells. These include neuraminidase, ionomycin, KCl+dibutyryl cAMP, cholera toxin B subunit, retinoic acid, dibutyryl cAMP (alone), GM1 ganglioside, and low serum. The first four of these (group 1) gave rise to neurites with axon-like characteristics, including immunostaining that was positive for phosphorylated high molecular weight neurofilament protein (NF-H) and synaptic vesicle protein-2 (SV2), but negative for microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP2). The next three treatments (group 2) resulted in dendrite-like processes, as evidenced in immunostaining that was positive for MAP2 and negative for NF-H and SV2. Neurites produced by low serum had mixed properties. These cytoskeletal differences were supported by immunoblot analysis with antisera to the above cytoskeletal proteins. Striking morphological differences were also noted, group 2-induced neurites being significantly shorter with more branch points than those generated by group 1 stimulants. Time of exposure to stimulatory agent was crucial in determining expression of the neuritic phenotype. Correlation with previous studies suggests that axon-like neurites result from stimulants which elevate intracellular Ca2+, a dependence not previously reported to our knowledge. Dendrite-like process outgrowth, on the other hand, does not appear to depend on altered intracellular Ca2+.
Neurological deterioration in alert patients with an acute CNS disorder can be subtle, but current coma scales may not clearly capture changes in level of alertness. Many coma scales include components such as eye opening and content of speech, features that are difficult to assess in intubated patients and patients with facial trauma. Two new tools have been devised by the authors. The components are a continuous performance test (patient is asked to raise his hand every time he hears a certain letter in a standardised sentence) and the three consecutive hand position test (&quot;thumbs up-fist-victory sign&quot;). Variation within and between observers was assessed with three neurologists, two junior neurology residents, and two neuroscience nurses, and compared with the Glasgow coma score. The average agreements had comparable ranges for both scores, 65% to 89% for both tests and 60% to 88% for the Glasgow coma score. On the first visit 49% of all tests with a maximum Glasgow coma score had a negative continuous performance test as opposed to 13% of tests with a less than maximum Glasgow coma score. For the consecutive hand position test, these numbers were respectively 25% and 2%. These tests may be a reasonable alternative to the Glasgow coma score to monitor patients, in particular when the verbal and eye response cannot be reliably tested.



Immunocytochemistry was used to study the expressions of glutamate receptor subunit proteins for NMDAR2A/B, NMDAR1 splice variants, and AMPA Glu-R2/3 in human brain resected for intractable epilepsy associated with cortical dysplasia. NMDAR2A/B intensely labeled dysplastic neurons showing staining in both the cell bodies and dendritic profiles. However, nondysplastic neurons were not immunoreactive to NMDAR2A/B. The antibody selective to NMDAR1 splice variants of NR1-1a. -1b, -2a, and -2b labeled dysplastic neurons, but few nondysplastic neurons. In contrast, the antibody to splice variants of NR1-1a, -1b, 2a, -2b, -3a, -3b, -4a, and -4b labeled both dysplastic and nondysplastic neurons. The different labeling patterns by these two antibodies indicate that variants of NMDAR1-3a, -3b, -4a, and -4b are present in nondysplastic neurons. Both dysplastic neurons and nondysplastic neurons were immunoreactive to AMPA GluR2/3, but denser immunoreactivity was observed in dysplastic neurons. We also found that the locations of dysplastic neurons labeled by NMDAR2A/B were related to focal epileptic EEG seizure onsets or spiking and to focal behavioral seizure types. Our results suggest that there is hyperexcitability of dysplastic cortical regions, at least in part, from the presence of NMDAR2 subunits and selectively expressed NMDAR1 splice variants in dysplastic neurons.
The parasites Trypanosoma brucei cause African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness), a severe neuropsychiatric disease with marked disturbances of sleep-wake alternation. The sites of brain lesions are not well characterized. The present experimental investigation is focused on the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nuclei, which play a role of a biological clock entraining endogenous rhythms in the mammalian brain. The electrophysiological properties of these neurons were analyzed in slice preparations from trypanosome-infected rats. The neuronal spontaneous activity, which shows a circadian oscillation, was markedly altered in the infected animals, displaying a reduced firing rate and phase advance of its circadian peak. The direct retinal fibers, which play a pivotal role in entrainment of the circadian pacemaker, displayed a normal density and distribution in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of infected animals after intraocular tracer injections in vivo. At the postsynaptic level, immunohistochemistry and Western blotting revealed in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of infected rats a selective decrease of the expression of glutamate AMPA GluR2/3 and NMDAR1 receptor subunits that gate retinal afferents. These data disclose an impairment of the neuronal functions in the biological clock in African trypanosomiasis, and may serve to unravel functional and molecular mechanisms behind endogenous rhythm disturbances.
Action potentials recorded from the soma of CA1 pyramidal neurons remain relatively uniform in amplitude during repetitive firing. In contrast, the amplitudes of back-propagating action potentials in dendrites decrease progressively during a spike train. This activity-dependent decrease in amplitude is dependent on the frequency of firing during the train and distance from the soma. Previously, we described a property of Na+ channels that provides a plausible mechanism for the activity dependence of the amplitude of the dendritic action potentials: available Na+ current decreases during trains of action potentials through an inactivation, distinct from fast inactivation, that appears rapid in onset, but slow and voltage-dependent in its recovery. In this study we found that activation of protein kinase C by phorbol esters decreased this activity-dependent inactivation of pharmacologically isolated Na+ current in cell-attached dendritic, but not somatic, patches. Similarly in whole cell recordings phorbol esters decreased the attenuation of back-propagating dendritic action potentials during trains. These results indicate a novel effect of protein kinase C on the dendritic Na+ channel and further support the hypothesis that the activity dependence of the dendritic action potentials is derived from the inactivation properties of Na+ channels.
We have studied facilitation of the L-type calcium current in neurons acutely isolated from the ventrobasal nucleus of the rat thalamus. Currents were recorded after pretreatment with 1 microM omega-conotoxin GVIA and 5 microM omega-conotoxin MVIIC, to better isolate L-current. Long, strong depolarizations induced slow tail currents at negative voltages, but did not affect currents at voltages where channels were strongly activated. The initial peak tail current was not measurably increased. The time course of recovery from facilitation paralleled the time course of the tail current, indicating that facilitation does not outlast channel closing. The kinase inhibitors staurosporine and H-7 and the phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid had no significant effect on L-current facilitation compared with control, but facilitation was greater with H-7 than with okadaic acid. The guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP) analogs GTP-gamma-S and GDP-beta-S did not affect facilitation. We conclude that L-current facilitation in thalamic neurons does not result from Ser/Thr phosphorylation, although phosphorylation may modulate facilitation. This form of facilitation differs kinetically and pharmacologically from facilitation induced by activation of G protein-coupled receptors.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) of the Schaffer collateral/commissural inputs to CA1 in the hippocampus was shown to consist of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) and voltage-dependent calcium channel (VDCC) dependent forms. In this study, the relative contributions of these two forms of LTP in in vitro hippocampal slices from young (2 mo) and old (24 mo) Fischer 344 rats were examined. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSP) were recorded extracellularly from stratum radiatum before and after a tetanic stimulus consisting of four 200-Hz, 0.5-s trains given 5 s apart. Under control conditions, a compound LTP consisting of both forms was induced and was similar, in both time course and magnitude, in young and old animals. NMDAR-dependent LTP (nmdaLTP), isolated by the application of 10 microM nifedipine (a voltage-dependent calcium channel blocker), was significantly reduced in magnitude in aged animals. The VDCC dependent form (vdccLTP), isolated by the application of 50 microM D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonvalerate (APV), was significantly larger in aged animals. Although both LTP forms reached stable values 40-60 min posttetanus in young animals, in aged animals vdccLTP increased and nmdaLTP decreased during this time. In both young and old animals, the sum of the two isolated LTP forms approximated the magnitude of the compound LTP, and application of APV and nifedipine or genestein (a tyrosine kinase inhibitor) together blocked potentiation. These results suggest that aging causes a shift in synaptic plasticity from NMDAR-dependent mechanisms to VDCC-dependent mechanisms. The data are consistent with previous findings of increased L-type calcium current and decreased NMDAR number in aged CA1 cells and may help explain age-related deficits in learning and memory.
The role of &quot;fast,&quot; or gamma band (20-80 Hz), local field potential (LFP) oscillations in representing neuronal activity and in encoding motor behavior was examined in motor cortex of two alert monkeys. Using chronically implanted microwires, we simultaneously recorded LFPs and single or multiple unit (MU) discharge at a group of sites in the precentral gyrus during trained finger force or reaching movements, during natural reaching and grasping, and during quiet sitting. We evaluated the coupling of oscillations with task-related firing at the same site, the timing of oscillations with respect to the execution of trained and untrained movement, and the temporal synchrony of oscillations across motor cortical sites. LFPs and neural discharge were examined from a total of 16 arm sites (7 sites in 1 monkey and 9 in the other), each showing movement-related discharge modulation and arm microstimulation effects. In the trained tasks, fast LFP and MU oscillations occurred most often during a premovement delay period, ceasing around movement onset. The decrease in oscillation roughly coincided with the appearance of firing rate modulation coupled to the motor action. During this delay, LFP oscillations exhibited either &quot;overlapping&quot; or &quot;mixed&quot; relationships with the simultaneously recorded neural discharge at that site. Overlap was characterized by coincident epochs of increased neural discharge and LFP oscillations. For the mixed pattern, episodes of LFP oscillation typically coincided with periods of diminished firing but overlap also sometimes appeared. Both patterns occurred concurrently across motor cortex during preparation; LFP suppression with motor action was ubiquitous. Fast oscillations reappeared quickly upon transition from quiet sitting to resumption of task performance, indicating an association with task engagement, rather than the general motor inaction of the delay period. In contrast to trained movements, fast oscillations often appeared along with movement during untrained reaching, but oscillations occurred erratically and were not reliably correlated with elevated neural discharge. Synchronous oscillations occurred at sites as much as 5 mm apart, suggesting widespread coupling of neurons and LFP signals in motor cortex. Widespread coupling of oscillatory signals is consistent with the concept that temporal coding processes operate in motor cortex. However, because the relationship between neuronal discharge and the appearance of fast oscillations may be altered by behavioral condition, they must reflect a global process active in conjunction with motor planning or preparatory functions, but not details of motor action encoded in neuronal firing rate.
Patch-clamp recordings were made from isolated and intact retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) of the ferret to examine the calcium-activated potassium channels expressed by these neurons and to determine their functional role in the generation of spikes and spiking patterns. Single-channel recordings from isolated neurons revealed the presence of two calcium-sensitive potassium channels that had conductances of 118 and 22 pS. The properties of these two channels were shown to be similar to those ascribed to the large-conductance calcium-activated potassium channel (BKCa) and small-conductance calcium-activated potassium channel (SKCa) channels in other neurons. Whole cell recordings from isolated RGCs showed that apamin and charybdotoxin (CTX), specific blockers of the SKCa and BKCa channels, respectively, resulted in a shortening of the time to threshold and a reduction in the hyperpolarization after the spike. Addition of these blockers also resulted in a significant increase in spike frequency over a wide range of maintained depolarizations. Similar effects of apamin and CTX were observed during current-clamp recordings from intact alpha and beta ganglion cells, morphologically identified after Lucifer yellow filling. About 20% of these neurons did not exhibit a sensitivity to either blocker, suggesting the presence of functionally distinct subgroups of alpha and beta RGCs on the basis of their intrinsic membrane properties. The expression of these calcium-activated potassium channels in the majority of alpha and beta cells provides a means by which the activity of these output neurons could be modulated by retinal neurochemicals.
We have previously shown that hypoxia induces both acute and chronic epileptogenic effects that are age dependent. Global hypoxia (3-4% O2) induces seizure activity in the developing brain [postnatal day (P)10-12] but not at younger or older ages. Adult rats with prior seizures induced by hypoxia at P10 show increased seizure susceptibility to chemical convulsants compared with controls. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that acute and chronic epileptogenic effects of hypoxia are demonstrable in hippocampus both in vivo and in vitro. Depth electrode recordings confirmed the presence of ictal activity within hippocampus in P10 rats during global hypoxia. Hippocampal slices prepared from P10 pups killed at 10 min after recovery from hypoxia showed evidence of increased excitability. Extracellular field recordings revealed that the amplitude and duration of long-term potentiation (LTP) was increased significantly in area CA1 of hippocampal slices removed from hypoxic pups. In addition, extracellular recordings within areas CA1 and CA3 showed significantly longer afterdischarge durations in response to kindling stimuli in slices from hypoxic pups compared with controls. To evaluate whether there were also long-term changes in hippocampal excitability, hippocampal slices were prepared from adult rats that had underwent hypoxia at P10 and compared with slices from adult litter-mate controls. A Mg2+-free medium was superfused to induce epileptiform activity within the slices. Extracellular recordings from stratum pyramidale of area CA1 showed that Mg2+-free media induced significantly more frequent ictal discharges in slices from previously hypoxic rats compared with controls. These results provide evidence that the naturally occurring stimulus of hypoxia can result in both acute and chronic changes in the excitability of the CA1 neuronal network. These results parallel our previous in vivo studies demonstrating that global hypoxia acutely increases excitability in the immature brain and that hypoxia during the age window approximately P10 results in long-lasting increases in seizure susceptibility within hippocampus. Our results suggest that the age-dependent epileptogenic effects of hypoxia are in part mediated by a direct and permanent effect on neuronal excitability within hippocampal neuronal networks.
The synaptic specificity of long-term potentiation (LTP) was examined at synapses formed on aspinous dendrites of interneurons whose somata were located in the pyramidal cell layer of hippocampal area CA1. Intracellular recordings from slices prepared from rats were used to monitor excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) elicited by extracellular stimulation in stratum radiatum. Two synaptic inputs were evoked at 0.5 Hz by stimulating axons adjacent to stratum pyramidale and s. lacunosum-moleculare. After obtaining baseline recordings (&gt;/=10 min), one of the EPSPs was conditioned. The protocol involved tetanic stimulation, sometimes combined with somatic depolarization. Low-frequency stimulation of the two pathways was then resumed and EPSPs were recorded for &lt;30 min. We observed both homosynaptic and heterosynaptic changes in synaptic strength. LTP and long-term depression (LTD) were seen in both pathways and all possible combinations of changes in the two EPSPs were observed, including heterosynaptic LTP associated with either homosynaptic LTP or LTD. Intracellular 1,2-bis (2-aminophenoxy)-ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (10 mM) abolished alterations in synaptic strength. When axons in s. radiatum synapse onto a spiny pyramidal cell, synaptic specificity of LTP is preserved. However the results obtained from aspinous interneurons show that synaptic specificity of LTP is lost. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that spines provide postsynaptic mechanism(s) for conferring specificity to LTP.
Stereotypic paroxysmal discharges that propagate in neocortical tissues after electrical stimulations are used as a probe for studying cortical circuitry. I use modeling to investigate the effects of sparse connectivity, heterogeneity of intrinsic neuronal properties, and synaptic noise on synchronization of evoked propagating neuronal discharges in a network of excitatory, regular spiking neurons with spatially decaying connectivity. The global coherence of the traveling discharge is characterized by the correlation function between spike trains of neurons, averaged over all the pairs of neurons in the system at the same distance. Local coherence of two neurons is characterized by their correlation function averaged over many trials or, for persistent activity, over a long time interval. Spike synchronization between neurons emerges as a result of the transient activity; if activity is persistent, there is no synchrony, and cross-correlation functions are flat. During discharge propagation, system-average cross-correlation between neurons does not depend on their mutual distance except for a time shift. Spike synchronization occurs only when the average number of synapses M a cell receives is large enough. As M increases, there is a cross-over from an asynchronized to a synchronized discharge. Synaptic depression appears to help synchrony; it reduces the M value at the cross-over. The strengths of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) conductances affect synchrony only weakly. Spike synchronization is robust even with large levels of heterogeneity. Synaptic noise reduces synchrony, but strong synchrony is observed at a noise level that cannot evoke spontaneous discharges. System-average spike synchronization is determined by the levels of sparseness, heterogeneity, and noise, whereas trial-average spike synchronization is determined only by the noise level. Therefore, I predict that experiments will reveal local, two-cell spike synchrony, but not global synchrony.
Neuropsychiatric research seeks to improve the lives of patients with brain-based behavioral disturbances. There has been dramatic progress in diagnosis and treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders, and progress in neuroscience and biotechnology promises further success. Paradoxically, recent trends threaten to erode this progress. In this environment, neuropsychiatric clinician-scientists must advocate for the importance of research. This position statement defines neuropsychiatric research, describes current challenges to the neuropsychiatric clinician-scientist, summarizes research opportunities, describes how future neuropsychiatric clinician-investigators should be trained, and makes recommendations for promoting neuropsychiatric research.
The adipose tissue-derived hormone leptin regulates body weight homeostasis by decreasing food intake and increasing energy expenditure. The weight-reducing action of leptin is thought to be mediated primarily by signal transduction through the leptin receptor (LR) in the hypothalamus. We have used immunohistochemistry to localize LR-immunoreactive (LR-IR) cells in the rat brain using an antiserum against a portion of the intracellular domain of LR that is common to all LR isoforms. The antiserum recognized the short and long isoforms of LR in transfected hematopoietic BaF3 cells. To examine the chemical nature of target cells for leptin, direct double-labeling immunofluorescence histochemistry was applied. The results show extensive distribution of LR-like immunoreactivity (LR-LI) in the brain with positively stained cells present, e.g., in the choroid plexus, cerebral cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, and hypothalamus. In the hypothalamus, strongly LR-IR neurons were present in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) and paraventricular nucleus (PVN), periventricular nucleus, arcuate nucleus, and lateral hypothalamus. Weaker LR-IR neurons were also demonstrated in the lateral and medial preoptic nuclei, suprachiasmatic nucleus, ventromedial and dorsomedial nuclei, and tuberomammillary nucleus. Confocal laser scanning microscopy showed LR-LI in the periphery of individual cells. In magnocellular neurons of the SON and PVN, LR-LI was demonstrated in vasopressin- and oxytocin-containing neurons. In parvocellular neurons of the PVN, LR-LI was demonstrated in many corticotropin-releasing hormone-containing neurons. LR-IR neurons were mainly seen in the ventromedial aspect of the arcuate nucleus, where LR-LI co-localized with neuropeptide Y. In the ventrolateral part of the arcuate nucleus, LR-LI was present in many large adrenocorticotropic hormone-IR proopiomelanocortin-containing neurons and in a few galanin-, neurotensin-, and growth hormone-releasing hormone-containing neurons. In the dorsomedial arcuate nucleus, few tyrosine hydroxylase (dopamine)-containing neurons were seen to have LR-LI. Melanin-concentrating hormone-containing neurons in the lateral hypothalamus had LR-LI. Based on the immunohistochemical results, possible interactions of leptin with brain mechanisms are discussed.
The nucleus accumbens is a forebrain region that mediates cocaine self-administration and withdrawal effects in animal models of cocaine dependence. Considerable evidence suggests an important role of dopamine D1 receptors in these effects. Using a combination of current-clamp recordings in brain slices and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from freshly dissociated neurons, we found that nucleus accumbens neurons are less excitable in cocaine withdrawn rats because of a novel form of plasticity: reduced whole-cell sodium currents. Three days after discontinuation of repeated cocaine injections, nucleus accumbens neurons recorded in brain slices were less responsive to depolarizing current injections, had higher action potential thresholds, and had lower spike amplitudes. Freshly dissociated nucleus accumbens neurons from cocaine-pretreated rats exhibited diminished sodium current density and a depolarizing shift in the voltage-dependence of sodium channel activation. These effects appear to be related to enhanced basal phosphorylation of sodium channels because of increased transmission through the dopamine D1 receptor/cAMP-dependent protein kinase pathway. The effects of repeated cocaine administration were not mimicked by repeated injections of the local anesthetic lidocaine and were not observed in neurons within the motor cortex, indicating that they did not result from local anesthetic actions of cocaine. Because nucleus accumbens neurons are normally recruited to coordinate response patterns of movement and affect, the decreased excitability during cocaine withdrawal may be related to symptoms such as anergia, anhedonia, and depression.
Recent data obtained using a classic fear conditioning paradigm showed a dissociation between the retention of associations relative to contextual information (dependent on the hippocampal formation) and the retention of elemental associations (dependent on the amygdala). Furthermore, it was reported that conditioned emotional responses (CERs) could be dissociated from the recollection of the learning experience (declarative memory) in humans and from modifications of the hippocampal-septal excitability in animals. Our aim was to determine whether these two systems (&quot;behavioral expression&quot; system and &quot;factual memory&quot; system) interact by examining the consequences of amygdalar lesions (1) on the modifications of hippocampal-septal excitability and (2) on the behavioral expression of fear (freezing) resulting from an aversive conditioning during reexposure to conditional stimuli (CSs). During conditioning, to modulate the predictive nature of the context and of a discrete stimulus (tone) on the unconditional stimulus (US) occurrence, the phasic discrete CS was paired with the US or randomly distributed with regard to the US. After the lesion, the CER was dramatically reduced during reexposure to the CSs, whatever the type of acquisition. However, the changes in hippocampal-septal excitability persisted but were altered. For controls, a decrease in septal excitability was observed during reexposure to the conditioning context only for the &quot;unpaired group&quot; (predictive context case). Conversely, among lesioned subjects this decrease was observed in the &quot;paired group&quot; (predictive discrete CS case), whereas this decrease was significantly reduced in the unpaired group with respect to the matched control group. The amplitude and the direction of these modifications suggest a differential modulation of hippocampal-septal excitability by the amygdala to amplify the contribution of the more predictive association signaling the occurrence of the aversive event.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission, studied intensively in reduced brain preparations such as hippocampal brain slices, is the leading candidate for the cellular/molecular basis of learning and memory. Serious consideration of LTP as underlying information storage in the intact brain, however, requires understanding how LTP can be induced selectively at specific synaptic sites in a neural system when the mechanisms underlying LTP are regulated by other structural and functional properties of the same neural system. In the studies reported here, we tested the hypothesis that different patterns of activity within the same population of entorhinal cortical afferents could lead to a selective potentiation of spatially distinct populations of synapses across different regions of the hippocampus, including those activated multisynaptically. We focused specifically on potentiation of direct, monosynaptic entorhinal input to dentate granule cells, which expresses an NMDA receptor-dependent LTP, and on potentiation of indirect, disynaptic entorhinal input to CA3 pyramidal cells, which is transmitted by the mossy fiber projection of dentate granule cells and expresses an NMDA receptor-independent LTP. The principal findings of these experiments show that lower stimulation frequencies (10-20 Hz) of entorhinal cortical axons selectively induce LTP of mossy fiber input to CA3 transsynaptically via excitation of dentate granule cells, and that patterns of stimulation of that mimic neuronal firing in the entorhinal cortex during endogenous theta rhythm (five-impulse bursts at 200 Hz, interburst intervals of 200 msec) induce LTP both monosynaptically for input to dentate granule cells and transsynaptically for mossy fiber input to CA3.
We tested the hypothesis that cognitive functions related to working memory (assessed with delay tasks) are distinct from those related to decision making (assessed with a gambling task), and that working memory and decision making depend in part on separate anatomical substrates. Normal controls (n = 21), subjects with lesions in the ventromedial (VM) (n = 9) or dorsolateral/high mesial (DL/M) prefrontal cortices (n = 10), performed on (1) modified delay tasks that assess working memory and (2) a gambling task designed to measure decision making. VM subjects with more anterior lesions (n = 4) performed defectively on the gambling but not the delay task. VM subjects with more posterior lesions (n = 5) were impaired on both tasks. Right DL/M subjects were impaired on the delay task but not the gambling task. Left DL/M subjects were not impaired on either task. The findings reveal a cognitive and anatomic double dissociation between deficits in decision making (anterior VM) and working memory (right DL/M). This presents the first direct evidence of such effects in humans using the lesion method and underscores the special importance of the VM prefrontal region in decision making, independent of a direct role in working memory.
Gamma frequency field oscillations (40-100 Hz) are nested within theta oscillations in the dentate-hilar and CA1-CA3 regions of the hippocampus during exploratory behaviors. These oscillations reflect synchronized synaptic potentials that entrain the discharge of neuronal populations within the approximately 10-25 msec range. Using multisite recordings in freely behaving rats, we examined gamma oscillations within the superficial layers (I-III) of the entorhinal cortex. These oscillations increased in amplitude and regularity in association with entorhinal theta waves. Gamma waves showed an amplitude minimum and reversed in phase near the perisomatic region of layer II, indicating that they represent synchronized synaptic potentials impinging on layer II-III neurons. Theta and gamma oscillations in the entorhinal cortex were coupled with theta and gamma oscillations in the dentate hilar region. The majority of layer II-III neurons discharged irregularly but were phase-related to the negative peak of the local (layer II-III) gamma field oscillation. These findings demonstrate that layer II-III neurons discharge in temporally defined gamma windows (approximately 10-25 msec) coupled to the theta cycle. This transient temporal framework, which emerges in both the entorhinal cortex and the hippocampus, may allow spatially distributed subpopulations to form temporally defined ensembles. We speculate that the theta-gamma pattern in the discharge of these neurons is essential for effective neuronal communication and synaptic plasticity in the perforant pathway.
The Lurcher mutant has been extensively studied as a model for cell-autonomous and target-related cell death, yet there are still many unknowns concerning the mechanisms of neuronal degeneration in this mutant. As a key regulator of apoptosis, a bcl-2 transgene has been overexpressed in the heterozygous Lurcher mutant to investigate the effects of BCL-2 on two types of in vivo neuronal cell loss in Lurcher: cell-autonomous Purkinje cell degeneration and target-related olivary neuron death. Six adult +/Lc mutants expressing a human bcl-2 transgene (Hu-bcl-2) were generated by crossing +/Lc mutants with NSE71 Hu-bcl-2 transgenic mice. Analysis of these brains showed that bcl-2 overexpression did not prevent +/Lc Purkinje cell degeneration, but it did rescue most olivary neurons from target-related cell death. Although the number of olivary neurons was equivalent to wild-type numbers, the inferior olive nucleus was significantly shorter in its rostrocaudal extent, suggesting that olivary neurons are atrophied. We propose that Lurcher gene action causes Purkinje cell degeneration independently of a BCL-2-mediated pathway. Furthermore, although bcl-2 overexpression rescues olivary neurons from target-related cell death, it does not prevent the atrophy associated with the loss of target-related trophic support.
Discrimination of odorants is thought to arise from the selective expression of one of a small number of individual receptors in any single olfactory neuron. Receptor genes are expressed in a small subset of neurons throughout a zonally restricted region of the sensory epithelium. We demonstrate that a 6.7 kb region upstream of the M4 olfactory receptor coding region was sufficient to direct expression in olfactory epithelium. Moreover, reporter expression recapitulated the zonal restriction and distributed neuronal expression observed for endogenous olfactory receptors. Transgenic lines were obtained that directed expression in two different receptor zones, one of which was identical to the endogenous M4 receptor. When the reporter was expressed in the same zone as the endogenous M4 receptor, the two expression patterns were, in large part, nonoverlapping. These results suggest a model in which important regulatory elements are located in close proximity to transcription initiation sites of the olfactory receptor genes and receive information defining zonal patterning via long-range processes.
The transcription factor Elk-1, a nuclear target of extracellular-regulated kinases (ERKs), plays a pivotal role in immediate early gene induction by external stimuli. Notably, the degree of phosphorylation of Elk-1 is tightly correlated with the level of activation of transcription of c-fos by proliferative signals. No data yet indicate the role of Elk-1 in the adult brain in vivo. To address this question, we have analyzed in the present work (1) Elk-1 mRNA and protein expression in the adult rat brain, and (2) the regulation of Elk-1 (i.e., its phosphorylation state) in an in vivo model of immediate early gene (IEG) induction: an electrical stimulation of the cerebral cortex leading to c-fos and zif268 mRNA induction in the striatum. Using in situ hybridization, we show that Elk-1 mRNA is expressed in various brain structures of adult rat, and that this expression is exclusively neuronal. We demonstrate by immunocytochemistry using various specific Elk-1 antisera that the protein is not only nuclear (as shown previously in transiently transfected cell lines) but is also present in soma, dendrites, and axon terminals. On electrical stimulation of the glutamatergic corticostriatal pathway, we show a strict spatiotemporal correspondence among ERK activation, Elk-1 phosphorylation, and IEG mRNA induction. Furthermore, both activated proteins, analyzed by immunocytochemistry, are found in cytosolic and nuclear comparments of neuronal cells in the activated area. Our data suggest that the ERK signaling pathway plays an important role in regulating genes controlled by serum response element sites via phosphorylation of Elk-1 in vivo.
Common genetic polymorphisms-as opposed to rare mutations-generate almost all heritable differences in the size and structure of the CNS. Surprisingly, these normal variants have not previously been mapped or cloned in any vertebrate species. In a recent paper (), we suggested that much of the variation in retinal ganglion cell number in mice, and the striking bimodality of strain averages, are caused by one or two quantitative trait loci (QTLs). To test this idea, and to map genes linked to this variable and highly heritable quantitative trait, we have counted ganglion cells in 38 recombinant inbred strains (BXD and BXH) derived from parental strains that have high and low cell numbers. A genome-wide search using simple and composite interval-mapping techniques revealed a major QTL on chromosome (Chr) 11 in a 3 cM interval between Hoxb and Krt1 (LOD = 6.8; genome-wide p = 0.001) and possible subsidiary QTLs on Chr 2 and Chr 8. The Chr 11 locus, neuron number control 1 (Nnc1), accounts for one third of the genetic variance among BXH strains and more than half of that among BXD strains, but Nnc1 has no known effects on brain weight, eye weight, or total retinal cell number. Three strong candidate genes have been mapped previously to the same region as Nnc1. These genes-Rara, Thra, and Erbb2- encode receptors for retinoic acid, thyroxine, and neuregulin, respectively. Each receptor is expressed in the retina during development, and their ligands affect the proliferation or survival of retinal cells.
Melanotropic cells release predocked, large, dense-cored vesicles containing alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone in response to calcium entry through voltage-gated calcium channels. Our first objective was to study the relationship between exocytosis, rapid endocytosis, and calcium entry evoked by short step depolarizations in the order of duration of single action potentials (APs). Exocytosis and rapid endocytosis were monitored by capacitance measurements. We show that short step depolarizations (40 msec) evoke the fast release of only approximately 3% of the predocked release-ready vesicle pool. Second, we asked what the distance is between voltage-gated calcium channels and predocked vesicles in these cells by modulating the intracellular buffer capacity. Exocytosis and rapid endocytosis were differentially affected by low concentrations of the calcium chelator EGTA. EGTA slightly attenuated exocytosis at 100 microM relative to 50 microM, but exocytosis was strongly depressed at 400 microM, showing that calcium ions have to travel a large distance to stimulate exocytosis. Nevertheless, the efficacy of calcium ions to stimulate exocytosis was constant for pulse durations between 2 and 40 msec, indicating that in melanotropes, exocytosis is related linearly to the amount and duration of calcium entry during a single AP. Rapid endocytosis was already strongly depressed at 100 microM EGTA, which shows that the process of endocytosis itself is calcium dependent in melanotropic cells. Furthermore, rapid endocytosis proceeded with a time constant of approximately 116 msec at 33 degrees C, which is three times faster than at room temperature. There was a strong correlation between the amplitude of endocytosis and the amplitude of exocytosis immediately preceding endocytosis. Both this correlation and the fast time constant of endocytosis suggest that the exocytotic vesicle is retrieved rapidly.
This study characterizes the differential targeting of recently synthesized immediate early gene (IEG) mRNAs to neuronal cell bodies versus dendrites and tests the hypothesis that this targeting is based on signals in the encoded proteins. A single electroconvulsive seizure induces the expression of a number of IEG mRNAs in granule cells of the dentate gyrus. Most of these IEG mRNAs remain in the cell body, including two that are characterized in the present study (the mRNAs for NGFI-A and COX-2). In contrast, the mRNA for Arc moved rapidly into dendrites at an apparent rate of approximately 300 micron/hr. Inhibiting protein synthesis with cycloheximide did not disrupt the differential mRNA sorting, demonstrating that the differential targeting of mRNAs is not dependent on translation.
The neurotransmitter glutamate, in addition to activating ligand-gated ion channels, also stimulates phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis in neurons by activating a group of G-protein-coupled metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). A role for mGluRs in synaptic plasticity originally was hypothesized based on the observation that the developmental decline in glutamate-stimulated PI turnover is well correlated with the decline in experience-dependent synaptic plasticity in visual cortex. Over the past few years, the compound alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG) has been widely used to test the role of PI-coupled mGluRs in a number of types of synaptic plasticity, including long-term potentiation (LTP), long-term depression (LTD), ocular dominance plasticity in visual cortex, and the neural plasticity underlying learning and memory. The conclusions of most of these studies were based on the assumption that MCPG blocks the actions of glutamate at PI-coupled mGluRs in the cerebral cortex. Here we show that this assumption is not valid in visual cortex. Although MCPG does antagonize the actions of the synthetic mGluR agonist 1S, 3R-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, it fails to block PI turnover and changes in spike adaptation stimulated by glutamate, the endogenous mGluR ligand. In addition, we find that MCPG fails to block the NMDA receptor-dependent forms of LTP, LTD, and depotentiation in visual cortex.
Trophic factors play important roles for the regulation of several motoneuron characteristics. In this report, we have studied the effects of different trophic factors on the regulation of two substances that have been linked with axon sprouting and regeneration in rat spinal motoneurons, i.e., calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43). The expression of both GAP-43 and CGRP is regulated developmentally and after different lesions. In the adult animal a sciatic nerve transection normally leads to an increased expression of both alpha-CGRP and GAP-43. Local administration of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), IGF-2, or ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) did not significantly change this response, whereas basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) attenuated the lesion-induced upregulation of alpha-CGRP mRNA. None of the studied factors had any influence on the upregulation of GAP-43 after lesion. In vitro, GAP-43 and alpha-CGRP mRNAs could be detected in enriched motoneuron cultures prepared from E14 rat embryos. The GAP-43 expression was upregulated by bFGF, IGF-1, IGF-2, and CNTF. CNTF also upregulated alpha-CGRP mRNA in cultured motoneurons, whereas bFGF had the opposite effect. IGF-1 and -2 did not significantly affect the alpha-CGRP mRNA levels. The decrease in GAP-43-immunopositive neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), seen during normal postnatal development, was attenuated after intramuscular injections of bFGF, CNTF, IGF-2, or CGRP 8-37, a CGRP antagonist. At the same time bFGF decreased and CNTF increased the number of CGRP-immunoreactive NMJs, whereas no difference from control was seen in IGF-2-treated muscles. These results show important regulatory effects of trophic factors on the expression of both GAP-43 and alpha-CGRP in motoneurons. However, it also is shown that the trophic factors used here influence the expression of these two substances in distinctively different patterns. This may have important implications for the understanding of trophic interactions in the spinal motor system and also should be considered in the evaluation of possible effects of CGRP and GAP-43 in motoneurons. The effect of a CGRP antagonist on GAP-43 in muscle indicates a role for CGRP in sprouting-related processes.

A fundamental issue in understanding how energy balance is accomplished involves comprehending how changes in intake affect subsequent intake. This was investigated in free-living humans by reanalyzing the data previously collected from 733 adults who were paid to maintain a 7-d diary of everything they ate and when they ate it. Food energy intake during a day was found to only mildly affect intake on the subsequent day (mean r = -0.07, P &lt; 0.001), but was more strongly negatively related to intake occurring on the second (mean r = -0.18, P &lt; 0.001) and third day (mean r = -0.10, P &lt; 0.001) afterward. Each macronutrient was shown to have a maximal negative relationship with subsequent intake of that same macronutrient, with 2-d lag mean autocorrelations equal to -0.11, P &lt; 0.001 for carbohydrate, equal to -0.18, P &lt; 0.001 for fat, and equal to -0.13, P &lt; 0.001 for protein. These effects on daily intake were found to result from separate negative feedback effects on meal size and frequency. The results suggest that intake affects subsequent intake by persistently setting a long-term bias that, integrated over time, produces a net shift in intake.

Two separate experiments were carried out in order to evaluate the influence of moderate swim training and treadmill running on the rate of recovery of sensorimotor function following sciatic nerve injury in the rat. Nerve injury was induced by sciatic nerve crush. In the first experiment, rats were subjected to swim exercise (180 m daily), either for 7 days before, or for 14 consecutive days after nerve injury. In the second experiment rats were exercised on a motor driven treadmill device (10 m/min for 30 min twice daily) for 21 days. The recovery from nerve injury was assessed by means of an analysis of the free walking pattern (motor function) and the foot withdrawal reflex (sensory function) by electrical stimulation. The swim training program before or after crush did not affect the recovery of locomotor or sensory function. Treadmill running significantly deteriorated the gradual return of motor function (p &lt; 0.05), but did not influence sensory recovery. We conclude that swim training does not interfere with functional sensorimotor recovery after sciatic nerve injury, and that a mild program of treadmill running retards recovery. We hypothesize that the retardation of recovery as a result of treadmill running is the consequence of the stress inflicted by the negative reinforcement used in the treadmill, or due to the severity of the training. /?&gt;
A method has been developed for the simultaneous recording with wire electrodes of extracellular action potentials from single human afferent and efferent nerve fibres of undamaged sacral nerve roots. A classification scheme of the human peripheral nervous system (PNS) could be set up in which the individual classes of nerve fibres are characterized by group conduction velocities and group nerve fibre diameters. Natural impulse patterns of several identified single afferent and efferent nerve fibres can be extracted from the multi-unit impulse patterns, and human central nervous system (CNS) functions can be analyzed under physiologic and pathophysiologic conditions. With the discovery of premotor spinal oscillators it became possible to judge upon CNS neuronal network functions based on the firing patterns of these spinal oscillators. Since oscillatory firing has also been observed in electromyographic (EMG) single motor unit firing patterns, it seems possible to follow up therapeutic intervention in patients with spinal cord lesion not only based on the activity levels and phases of motor programs during locomotion but also based on the physiologic and pathophysiologic firing patterns and recruitment of spinal oscillators. Since rhythmic, dynamic, stereotyped, symmetric movements are mainly located in the spinal cord and only little supraspinal drive is necessary to initiate, maintain (especially), and terminate them, rhythm training methods were used to enforce reorganization of the CNS following spinal cord and CNS lesions to improve the self-organization and relative coordination of spinal oscillators which became pathologic in their firing following CNS lesion. Paraparetic, tetraparetic and brain-lesioned patients relearned running and other movements by an oscillator formation training. This development in neurorehabilitation is in accordance with those of theoretical and computational neurosciences which consider self-organization of neuronal networks. In particular, jumping on a springboard 'in phase' and 'in antiphase' to relearn phase relations of oscillator coupling can be understood in the Haken-Kelso-Bunz model. By introducing broken symmetry, intention, learning and spasticity in the landscape of the potential function of the integrated CNS activity, the change in self-organization becomes understandable. In conclusion, movement patterns relearned by oscillator formation training evolve from reorganization, and perhaps regeneration, of the lesioned CNS by cooperative and competitive interplay between intrinsic coordination dynamics, extrinsic training-related inputs with physiologic re-afferent input, including intention and supervised learning, and genetic constraints including neurogenesis.
We examined the effect of prenatal ethanol exposure on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-stimulated 36Cl- flux. Sprague-Dawley rat dams were fed either a liquid diet containing 5% ethanol, pair-fed an isocalorically equivalent 0% ethanol diet or rat chow ad libitum throughout gestation. Membrane vesicles were prepared from medial frontal cortex, cerebellum and hippocampal formation of adult offspring in each diet group. GABA-stimulated 36Cl- flux was not significantly affected by prenatal ethanol exposure in any of the three brain regions examined. Positive allosteric modulation of GABA-stimulated 36Cl- flux by flunitrazepam or alphaxalone, as well as negative modulation by FG-7142 or pregnenolone, were all diminished in medial frontal cortex of 5% ethanol diet offspring compared with both ad libitum and pair-fed control groups. In cerebellum, prenatal ethanol exposure attenuated the modulatory effects of both benzodiazepines, but did not affect neurosteroid modulation. In hippocampus, prenatal ethanol exposure enhanced the effects of flunitrazepam and alphaxalone, whereas negative modulatory effects were either decreased (FG-7142) or unchanged (pregnenolone). These results indicate that moderate ethanol consumption during gestation can produce long-lasting alterations in neuromodulatory influences on GABAA receptor-mediated inhibitory neurotransmission in adult offspring. In hippocampal formation, the heightened sensitivity to positive modulatory influences may contribute to synaptic plasticity deficits in fetal ethanol-exposed rat offspring. We speculate that these prenatal ethanol-induced changes may be either a consequence of differential GABAA receptor subunit expression or receptor uncoupling in different brain regions. Furthermore, offspring exposed to ethanol in utero may display differential sensitivities to benzodiazepines and possibly other centrally active therapeutic agents.

In the awake brain, information about the external world reaches the hippocampus via the entorhinal cortex, whereas during sleep the direction of information flow is reversed: population bursts initiated in the hippocampus invade the neocortex. We suggest that neocortico-hippocampal transfer of information and the modification process in neocortical circuitries by the hippocampal output take place in a temporally discontinuous manner associated with theta/gamma oscillations. On the other hand, transfer of the stored representations to neocortical areas is carried by discrete quanta of cooperative neuronal bursts (called sharp wave bursts) initiated in the hippocampus during slow wave sleep. The spatio-temporal participation of principal cells in sharp waves is determined by experience-induced changes in the CA3 recurrent collateral matrix. The co-operative, converging pre-synaptic activity can induce localized fast spikes and associated calcium influx in the apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal cells, a necessary condition for the induction of synaptic plasticity. In addition, the subcortical effects of hippocampal sharp wave bursts may be critical in the release of various hormones which, in turn, may affect synaptic plasticity. These observations suggest that sleep patterns in the limbic system are essential for the preservation of experience-induced synaptic modifications.


In a study of 18 human subjects, we applied a new technique, estimation of the transfer function between instantaneous lung volume (ILV) and instantaneous heart rate (HR), to assess autonomic activity during motion sickness. Two control recordings of ILV and electrocardiogram (ECG) were made prior to the development of motion sickness. During the first, subjects were seated motionless, and during the second they were seated rotating sinusoidally about an earth vertical axis. Subjects then wore prism goggles that reverse the left-right visual field and performed manual tasks until they developed moderate motion sickness. Finally, ILV and ECG were recorded while subjects maintained a relatively constant level of sickness by intermittent eye closure during rotation with the goggles. Based on analyses of ILV to HR transfer functions from the three conditions, we were unable to demonstrate a change in autonomic control of heart rate due to rotation alone or due to motion sickness. These findings do not support the notion that moderate motion sickness is manifested as a generalized autonomic response.
Optimal human performance depends upon integrated sensorimotor and cognitive functions, both of which are known to be exquisitely sensitive to loss of sleep. Under the microgravity conditions of space flight, adaptation of both sensorimotor (especially vestibular) and cognitive functions (especially orientation) must occur quickly--and be maintained--despite any concurrent disruptions of sleep that may be caused by microgravity itself, or by the uncomfortable sleeping conditions of the spacecraft. It is the three-way interaction between sleep quality, general work efficiency, and sensorimotor integration that is the subject of this paper and the focus of new work in our laboratory. To record sleep under field conditions including microgravity, we utilize a novel system called the Nightcap that we have developed and extensively tested on normal and sleep-disordered subjects. To perturb the vestibular system in ground-based studies, we utilize a variety of experimental conditions including optokinetic stimulation and both minifying and reversing goggle paradigms that have been extensively studied in relation to plasticity of the vestibulo-ocular reflex. Using these techniques we will test the hypothesis that vestibular adaptation both provokes and is enhanced by REM sleep under both ground-based and space conditions. In this paper we describe preliminary results of some of our studies.
Inflight and post-landing &quot;immunity&quot; to the &quot;coriolis sickness susceptibility test&quot;, observed during the Skylab M131 experiment, suggests that the otolith organs play a major role in space motion sickness (SMS). This view is supported by the report that ocular counter-torsion asymmetries correlate with SMS incidence and severity. Further data indicate that sensory-motor adaptation to microgravity includes a process whereby central interpretation of otolith signals is biased from &quot;tilt&quot; toward translation. However, unexpected responses to linear acceleration suggest the importance of graviceptors distributed throughout the body in addition to the vestibular otolith organs. Research is needed to assess distributed graviceptor effects.


Recent studies from our laboratory have shown that methyl palmoxirate (MEP), an inhibitor of mitochondrial beta-oxidation of long chain fatty acids, can be used to increase incorporation of radiolabeled palmitic acid into brain lipids and reduce beta-oxidation of the fatty acid. Thus, MEP allows the use of carbon labeled palmitate for studying brain lipid metabolism in animals and humans by quantitative autoradiography or positron emission tomography (PET). As it is essential to pretreat human subjects with an acute dose of MEP prior to intravenous injection of [1-11C]palmitate for PET scanning, this study was undertaken to determine the plasma elimination half-life of MEP in rats and human subjects and to provide insight about the drug's absorption and metabolism. A gas chromatographic method was developed to measure MEP in body fluids. Following oral administration of MEP to rats (2.5 and 10 mg/kg) and to humans, the unmetabolized drug could not be detected in plasma or urine (sensitivity of detection was 1 ng). However, when MEP was injected intravenously (10 mg/kg) in rats, a peak initial concentration could be measured in plasma (7.7 microg/mL), the clearance of the drug from plasma was rapid (t1/2 = 0.6 min), which indicates that MEP readily enters tissue lipid pools or is metabolized like long-chain fatty acids. As no adverse experience occured in the 11 human subjects studied, oral administration of a single dose of MEP was safe under the conditions of this study and may be used to increase the incorporation of positron labeled palmitic acid for studying brain lipid metabolism in vivo by PET.
Several studies have documented the opiate effects of parasitic infection on experimental animals. The current study examined the relationships between infection with the intestinal nematode, Nippostrongylus brasiliensis with analgesia and activity levels. Male white mice infected with N. brasiliensis displayed a significant increase in thermal latency thresholds that rose through the duration of infection and subsided with its termination. Analgesia first became apparent on day three-post infection but did not reach statistical significance (p &lt; 0.05) until day 7 post infection. The maximum analgesia was reached on day 8-post infection and gradually declined. By day 15 post infection, there was no significant difference in the latency times between control and infected mice. The initial significant difference in latency roughly corresponded with the onset of egg production by the parasite. The peak difference in latency times and their subsequent decline also parallels peak egg production and the decline in egg production as the infection subsided. Both naloxone and naltrindole significantly reduced the latency times (p &lt; 0.05) of infected mice. There was also a significant difference in total ambulatory activity levels between infected and control mice. Activity levels began to decline on the second day post infection but did not reach a statistically significant difference (p &lt; 0.05) from the controls until 9th day post infection. Infected mice that were injected with either naloxone or naltrindole had a significantly higher activity level than the infected mice injected with saline.
Several irreversible inhibitors of monoamine oxidase B, can promote survival of damaged neurons in several animal models of cerebral injury. Today it is evident that this effect is not a consequence of monoamine inhibition. Instead it has been proposed that L-deprenyl may act via an unrelated non-monoamine oxidase type- of binding site. In the present study we have investigated if brain tissue from MAOB knockout mice contain such &quot;non-MAO&quot; binding sites for radiolabelled deprenyl. Interestingly, no binding of L-deprenyl was observed indicating that the mother compound does not act directly via a macromolecular target. This is enticing since several alternative mechanisms of action have been proposed in the literature.
Tramadol is a clinically-effective, centrally-acting analgesic. This drug is a racemic mixture of two enantiomers, each one displaying different mechanisms: (+)tramadol displays opioid agonist properties and inhibits serotonin reuptake while (-)tramadol inhibit preferentially noradrenaline reuptake. The action of tramadol on the monoaminergic reuptake is similar to that of antidepressant drugs. Therefore, we have examined the effects of (+/-)tramadol, (+)tramadol and (-)tramadol in a test predictive of antidepressant activity, the forced swimming test in mice. Both (+/-)tramadol and its (-) enantiomer displayed a dose-dependent reduction on immobility; while the effect induced by the (+) enantiomer was not significant. Inhibition of noradrenaline synthesis, but not of serotonin synthesis, was capable of blocking the effect of (+/-)tramadol. The alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist phentolamine, as well as the alpha2-adrenergic antagonist yohimbine, and the beta-adrenoceptor blocker propranolol countered the immobility-reducing action of (+/-)tramadol. Moreover, neither the serotoninergic blocker methysergide nor the opioid antagonist naloxone antagonized the effect of (+/-)tramadol. Our results show that (+/-)tramadol and (-)tramadol have antidepressant-like effect in mice, probably mediated by the noradrenergic system rather than the serotoninergic or opioidergic ones.
Non-classical antigen-presentation by CD1 molecules expressed on cytokine-activated monocytes (CAM), and cell-mediated responses supported by double-negative (DN) and by CD8+ responder alphabeta T cells, are involved in host resistance against mycobacterial infections. The CD1b protein is responsible for presentation of non-peptide, lipid antigens to T cells. In this context, a pivotal role is played by induction of CD1b protein on the membrane of human monocytes activated by GM-CSF alone, and more efficiently by GM-CSF combined with IL-4. Rifampin (RFP), a drug which is extensively utilized for chemoprophylaxis or treatment of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, is known to reduce a number of B, or T cell-dependent responses. Therefore we undertook immunopharmacological studies on RFP, to determine the effects of this agent on human macrophage function, relative to antigen presentation by CD1b molecules and on DN T cell cytolytic function. The results showed that: (a) graded concentration of RFP (2 or 10 microg/ml) induced a significant increase of CD1b expression, in CAM as evaluated by FACS analysis; (b) RFP increased significantly the specific mAb binding to CD1b on CAM surface; (c) treatment of effector cells with RFP did not reduce DN T cell-mediated cytolysis against lymphoblastoid cells transfected with CD1b cDNA (C1R.b6 cells), pulsed with M. tuberculosis. These results suggest that RFP could be of potential value in improving mycobacterial antigen presentation without impairing responder T cell function.
The activity of semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO) has been reported to be elevated in blood from diabetic patients. It has been suggested that the enzyme is involved in the development of complications such as retinopathies, nephropathies and neuropathies, which are associated with advanced diabetes, possibly by the formation of toxic metabolites. Under the influence of SSAO, methylamine is deaminated to formaldehyde which is known to react with various macromolecules. It has therefore been proposed that specific inhibition of SSAO could be of therapeutic value for treatment of diabetic patients. The present results provide evidence that treatment with an SSAO inhibitor potently reduces the levels of irreversible adducts. In this study, 14C-methylamine was given intraperitoneally to NMRI mice, and the tissue distribution of irreversibly bound methylamine metabolites was estimated by an autoradiographic method. Such radioactive residues occurred in high concentrations in the intestinal wall, brown adipose tissue, spleen and bone marrow. By inhibiting SSAO irreversibly with hydralazine before giving 14C-methylamine to the mice, it was possible to determine the resynthesis rate of SSAO in different tissues. A complete recovery of SSAO activity was seen in the intestinal wall after 6 days, whereas only about 60% was recovered in adipose tissue after 14 days. This suggests that factors controlling the synthesis of SSAO differ in these tissues, or that these tissues express different forms of enzymes.
The effect of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist, SR 141716, on food intake and body weight was assessed in adult, non-obese Wistar rats. The daily administration of SR 141716 (2.5 and 10 mg/kg; i.p.) reduced dose-dependently both food intake and body weight. Tolerance to the anorectic effect developed within 5 days; in contrast, body weight in SR 141716-treated rats remained markedly below that of vehicle-treated rats throughout the entire treatment period (14 days). The results suggest that brain cannabinoid receptors are involved in the regulation of appetite and body weight.
In order to study the genetic factors involved in the neuroendocrine responses to stress, we have compared the intensity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and sympathetic nervous system activation following a 60 minute-restraint stress or after a 10 minute-exposure to a novel environment in three rat strains : outbred Wistar, inbred Brown Norway and Fischer 344, and F1 hybrid Brown Norway x Fischer 344 rats. The basal activity of the HPA axis did not differ between the four groups of rats whereas Brown Norway rats had the lowest release of corticosterone following restraint stress. Although differences in plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone failed to reach significance after exposure to a novel environment, the lowest level of corticosterone was found in Brown Norway rats. This lower release of corticosterone in Brown Norway rats has probably an adrenal origin as suggested by the ratios of corticosterone to ACTH levels following exposure to a novel environment: 632 +/- 222, 200 +/- 45, 636 +/- 89, 258 +/- 65 in Wistar, Brown Norway, Fischer 344 and F1 hybrids, respectively. This trait was dominant over the &quot;adrenal responsive&quot; phenotype of the Fischer 344 rat strain. In response to novelty, the lowest levels of prolactin and renin activity were found in plasma of Brown Norway and Wistar rats and the highest in Fischer 344 and F1 hybrid Brown Norway x Fischer 344 rats, the &quot;high response&quot; phenotype of the Fischer 344 strain being dominant. No strain-related difference was found in plasma glucose and either adrenal tyrosine hydroxylase or phenylethanolamine N-methyl transferase activity. Taken together, these data suggest that 1) genetic factors might contribute to the interindividual differences in neuroendocrine responses to stress and 2) subsets of these responses are controlled by specific genetic factors.
It is well known that some psychiatric sequelae exist after CO poisoning, but few animal studies on serotonergic neuronal function after CO exposure have been carried out. We investigated the effects of successive carbon monoxide (CO) exposure (6000 ppm, 10 min, 3 repetitions) on serotonergic neuronal systems in rat brain. Serotonin (5-HT) concentrations were significantly decreased only in the frontal cortex from 1 hr to 7 days after CO exposure. 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) concentrations were significantly increased at 1 hr in all six brain regions measured (frontal cortex, striatum, hypothalamus, hippocampus, midbrain, and pons). 5-HT synthesis, measured by the accumulation of 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) after the administration of m-hydroxybenzylhydrazine (NSD-1015), was significantly decreased in all regions from 1 hr to 7 days after CO exposure. [3H]Ketanserin (5-HT2A) binding sites in the frontal cortex were not affected by CO exposure. DOI-induced head shakes, a 5-HT2A receptor mediated behavior, were not changed after CO exposure. These findings indicated that CO exposure caused presynaptic serotonergic neuronal dysfunctions that consisted mainly of decreased concentration of 5-HT in the frontal cortex or a decrease of 5-HT synthesis in all six regions, without compensatory hyperfunction of 5-HT2A receptors.
It has been suggested that dopamine might play a role in the regulation of the immune system. In this study, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to investigate the expression of mRNA for the different subtypes of dopamine receptors in the rat lymphocytes. D1, D3 and D5 receptor mRNAs were identified. These results provide further evidence for the interaction of dopamine systems and the immune system, and suggest to further investigate whether the immunosuppressive actions of dopamine and dopaminergic drugs might depend on a direct interaction with dopamine receptors on the lymphocyte membrane. Moreover, they suggest the suitability of this animal species to further investigate the correlation between changes in the expression of central and peripheral dopamine receptors produced by manipulations of the dopamine systems.
We have examined the basal and the stress-induced secretion of corticosterone in relation to the expression of adrenal steroid receptors in the pituitary, hypothalamus and hippocampus of the inbred Brown Norway and Fischer 344 rat strains. Our data indicated that plasma transcortin and integrated plasma corticosterone levels were significantly higher in Fischer 344 compared to Brown Norway rats. Fischer 344 hypersecrete corticosterone during the dark phase of the diurnal cycle and during the phase of recovery following a 20 min period of restraint stress compared to Brown Norway rats. This hypersecretion of corticosterone was negatively correlated with the size of the adrenal gland but might be related to the higher density of mineralocorticoid receptors in the hippocampus of Fischer 344 rats.
We recently developed a sensitive peripheral analgesic test in mice. Bradykinin, a representative pain-producing substance, when given subcutaneously through a polyethylene tube into the plantar of the limb connected to a transducer, induced a flexor reflex response, in a dose dependent manner. When morphine, a mu-opioid receptor agonist, was added to the plantar through another polyethylene tube, bradykinin-induced responses were completely abolished in a naloxone-reversible manner. These peripheral analgesic effects were also observed with DAMGO, another mu-opioid receptor agonist, and U-69,593, a kappa-opioid receptor agonist, but not DSLET, a delta-opioid receptor agonist. When morphine was given subcutaneously to the back, a potent analgesia in the tail pinch test was observed. Repeated administrations of morphine once per day for 5 days showed a marked tolerance or reduction in morphine analgesia on the 6th day, while there was no significant reduction in the peripheral analgesia of morphine. These findings suggest that tolerance to morphine analgesia is mediated through synaptic plasticity in the central nervous system, but not through a receptor desensitization at the level of the single cell.
In this paper, we show the importance of intracellular calcium (Ca2+) signaling systems in the pathophysiology of mood disorders based on our recent work. Patients with affective disorders appear to have an enhanced intracellular Ca2+ rise in response to serotonin. We have observed effects of antidepressant drugs on intracellular Ca2+ signaling in rat cultured neuronal cells and glioma cells, and found that acute application of several classes of antidepressant drugs inhibited intracellular Ca2+ signaling and Ca2+-related signaling. It is important to investigate the role of intracellular Ca2+ signaling system for an understanding of the pathophysiology of affective disorders.
Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (NAChRs) are pentameric ligand-gated ion channel receptors which exist as different functional subunit combinations which apparently subserve different physiological functions as indicated by molecular biological and pharmacological techniques. It is possible to design and synthesize novel compounds that have greater selective affinities and efficacies than nicotine for different NAChRs, which should translate into different behavioral profiles and therapeutic potentials. Examples of NAChR agonists studied are nicotine, SIB-1508Y, SIB-1553A and epibatidine. These compounds have different degrees of selectivity for human recombinant NAChRs, different neurotransmitter release profiles in vitro and in vivo and differential behavioral profiles. Preclinical studies suggest that SIB-1508Y is a candidate for the treatment of the motor and cognitive deficits of Parkinson's disease, whereas SIB-1553A appears to have potential as a candidate for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Epibatidine has a strong analgesic profile, however the ratio between pharmacological activity and undesirable effects is so low that it is difficult to envisage the use of this compound therapeutically. Nicotine has a broad profile of pharmacological activity, for instance demonstrating activity in models for cognition and analgesia. As for epibatidine, the adverse effects of nicotine severely limits its therapeutic use in humans. The discovery of subtype-selective NAChR agonists such as SIB-1508Y and SIB-1553A provides a new class of neuropsychopharmacological agents with better therapeutic ratios than nonspecific agents such as nicotine.
Extracts of brain and heart from rats at birth and postnatal days 2 and 10 were evaluated for naltrexone following maternal injection of 50 mg/kg opioid antagonist throughout gestation. Samples were prepared by ultrafiltration, lyophilized, reconstituted in mobile phase, and separated by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection. Qualitative analysis revealed the presence of naltrexone in tissues from neonates, but not in rats of 2 and 10 days, that were transplacentally exposed to drug. These results confirm earlier reports showing that naltrexone, maternally administered, passes through the placenta and enters the fetus. Moreover, the data suggest that the somatic and neurobiological acceleration observed in offspring exposed to naltrexone during gestation is not due to opioid receptor blockade during the postnatal period.
Antibody to galactocerebroside (GalC) evokes a Ca2+ response in cultured glioma U-87 MG cells. The rise in intracellular calcium [Ca2+]i occurs largely due to the influx of Ca2+ through a plasma membrane channel, though the release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores also contributes. We characterized the channel activated by anti-GalC. The channel activity was transient and the inactivation appeared to be Ca2+ dependent. The channel was impermeant to monovalent ions Na+ and K+ and also to Mn2+. Ni2+ and Co2+ neither permeate through the channel nor inhibit the Ca2+ influx. In contrast Cd2+ the most potent inorganic blocker of Ca2+ channels permeated through this channel. The Ca2+ influx was inhibited by verapamil with IC50 of 65 +/- 8 microM. The Ca2+ influx as well as the intracellular release were markedly inhibited by neomycin sulfate and phorbol dibutyrate, suggesting that the Ca2+ influx may be mediated by IP3 (1). Depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores by thapsigargin was followed by Ca2+ influx. This represents the capacitative Ca2+ entry pathway and is distinct from the channel activated by anti -GalC.
Environmental circumstances during the neonatal period are critical for the establishment of adult responses to stressful environmental situations. As these responses are underpinned by adaptations in the functioning of brain neurotransmitter systems, the present study was designed to assess the mediation of noradrenergic and dopaminergic systems in the long-lasting effects of neonatal handling on both emotionality and learned helplessness behaviour. Animals received either prazosin, propranolol, haloperidol or saline before infantile handling. When the animals were 2 months old, they were subjected first to an open field test and then to the learned helplessness paradigm. Non-treated handled animals exhibited lower emotional reactivity and reduced susceptibility to helplessness compared to non-treated non-handled rats. The results suggest that noradrenergic, but not D2-dopamine receptor systems mediate the influence of neonatal handling on the acquisition of learned helplessness in the adult. Only beta-adrenoceptors appear to play a role in emotional responsiveness.









A large number of mitochondrial disorders have been associated with mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) (1-5). Disorders of mtDNA can be divided into three groups: large rearrangements of the mitochondrial genome, point mutations in transfer RNA (tRNA) or coding genes, and a reduction in mtDNA copy number. Only point mutations are currently diagnosed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods. Rearrangements and mtDNA depletion require southern or dot blot analysis. Most pathogenic point mutations described so far can be easily screened using PCR-based methods. Diagnosis of mtDNA disorders is complicated by heteroplasmy, which is unique to this group of diseases. In a normal individual, all of the thousands of copies of mtDNA per cell are identical (homoplasmic). Pathogenic mutations are usually heteroplasmic: a mixture of mutant and wild-type mtDNA molecules coexisting in the same cell or organelle. In many cases the level of mutant in an affected tissue correlates well with disease severity. Ideally, a screening test to detect a pathogenic point mutation should not only identify the presence or absence of a pathogenic mutation, but also quantitate the level of the mutation compared to wild-type mtDNA. Point mutations that result in either a restriction site loss or gain can be identified by amplifying around the mtDNA region of interest and digesting the amplified fragment (e.g., Goto et al. [2]). However, the majority of point mutations do not result in the gain or loss of a restriction site.


The rat adrenal hormone corticosterone reaches the brain and binds to intracellular receptors. These receptors comprise high-affinity mineralocorticoid and lower-affinity glucocorticoid receptors that, upon activation, affect the transcription rate of specific genes. The two receptor types are discretely localized in the brain, with particularly high expression levels in the hippocampus. Here we review recent studies showing that electrical properties and structural aspects of hippocampal principal neurons are specifically regulated by mineralocorticoid- or glucocorticoid-receptor activation. The molecular mechanisms by which these cellular effects could be accomplished are discussed.
Degeneration of spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) and hair cells in the cochlea induced by aging, injury, ototoxic drugs, acoustic trauma, and various diseases is the major cause of hearing loss. Discovery of growth factors that can either prevent SGN and hair-cell death or stimulate hair-cell regeneration would be of great interest. Studies over the past several years have provided evidence that specific neurotrophins are potent survival factors for SGNs and protect these neurons from ototoxic drugs in vitro and in vivo. Current research focuses more on understanding the mechanism of hair-cell regeneration/differentiation and identification of growth factors that can stimulate hair-cell regeneration. SGNs are required to relay the signal to the central nervous system even when a cochlear implant is used to replace hair-cell function or in the case that cochlear sensory epithelium can be stimulated to regenerate new hair cells successfully. Therefore, neurotrophins may have their therapeutic value in prevention and treatment of hearing impairment.
This work is based on the selective section of the B or C preganglionic fibres innervating respectively the B or C neurons of the last two abdominal ganglia of the sympathetic chain in the frog. A quantitative study of three morphological features of their synapses was performed for each of the two neuronal types. Significant differences were observed in the mean size of the preganglionic ending sections; on the contrary there were no differences in the mean length of the active zones. The subsynaptic apparatus, which is fairly frequent in this material, is not restricted to one neuronal type, although much more frequent in the synapses of B neurons. The modifications of the innervation of ganglionic neurons after selective section of one type of preganglionic fibres were followed measuring the synaptic density, using a synaptic index and an index of simple contacts. It appeared that, after selective degeneration of preganglionic C fibres, their regeneration being prevented, the preganglionic B fibres were able to from functional synapses on C neurons with a short latency, normal values of synaptic density being reached within 2 months. On the contrary, after degeneration of the preganglionic B fibres, the preganglionic C fibres reinnervated B neurons with a limited efficiency, in such a way that the synaptic density remained after several months much lower than normal and that electrophysiological recordings of synaptic transmission were limited to 44% of the impaled neurons. Possible interpretations of these data are discussed.
With studies of motor behavior that feature manual control, it is suggested that the methodology used to select subjects in reference to handedness be reviewed. This suggestion is in view of the recommendation that simply asking subjects to identify their writing hand is inadequate to define handedness. Complementing this are recent findings in neuroscience indicating differences, at times significant, in information-processing behavior based on handedness classification. A brief review of recently published studies in two prominent outlets for motor behavior research confirms that most reports provide minimal (and sometimes no) information regarding handedness and the method used for assessment. Recommendations for addressing the problem include using an acceptable preference inventory, selecting only those subjects with strong lateral characteristics, and briefly describing the methodology used for the reviewing audience.
The goal of the present study was to determine the properties of the somatosensory stimulus that alter its temporal coupling to body sway. Six standing subjects were tested while touching a metal plate positioned either directly in front of or lateral to the subject. In each condition, the plate moved 4 mm at 0.2 Hz in either the medial-lateral (ML) or anterior-posterior direction (AP). The results showed that coupling between body sway and touch plate movement was strongest when the touch plate moved in a direction along the longitudinal axis of the arm. Coupling strength was weaker when the touch plate moved perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the arm. The results consistently show that a radial expansion stimulus was more effective than a lamellar-type stimulus at the fingertip. Moreover, somatosensory information from a surface is interpreted in terms of the orientation of the contact limb and the potential degrees of freedom available through its movement.
Stimulation of the thalamic nucleus ventralis intermedius (Vim) at high (130-Hz) frequency has been used over the last 8 years as a treatment in 134 patients with movement disorders (91 Parkinson's disease [PD], 23 essential tremor [ET], 21 various dyskinesias and dystonias, including four multiple sclerosis [MS]), implanted with long-term electrodes connected to a programmable stimulator. In PD patients, tremor was selectively suppressed for &lt; or = 11 years. In ET patients, results were satisfactory, but in 35% of the cases deteriorated with time, when tremor had an action component. Other types of dyskinesias were much less influenced. Sixty-eight patients were bilaterally implanted, and 14 were implanted contralateral to a previous thalamotomy. Side effects were often minor, well tolerated, and immediately reversible. Three secondary scalp infections led to temporary removal of implanted material. There was no permanent morbidity. Long-term Vim stimulation, which is reversible, adaptable, and well tolerated, even by bilaterally operated-on (68 of 134) and by elderly patients, should replace thalamotomy in the regular surgical treatment of parkinsonian and essential tremors. More recently, we stimulated the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in 51 patients (44 bilateral) and the globus pallidus internus (GPi) in 12 patients (seven bilateral). STN stimulation has a spectacular effect on akinesia and rigidity and may improve the patients so as to maintain them all day at a level similar to their best &quot;on&quot; periods. A 30-50% reduction in drug dosage was possible in most of the patients. GPi stimulation has indications and effects similar to those of pallidectomy: abnormal involuntary movements are totally suppressed, whereas effects on akinesia and rigidity are not so important as they are with STN stimulation. For all three targets, morbidity is low and reversible, even when bilateral implantations are performed. The deep-brain stimulation method has now proved its safety as compared with ablative surgery and is able to provide a significant improvement to these severely disabled patients. Long-term follow up is establishing the security of the method, which should be considered in earlier stages of the disease actively to participate to rehabilitation.
We studied tremor-related activity in globus pallidus internus (GPi) neurons and the effects of pallidotomy on tremor in patients with Parkinson's disease. By using microelectrode recording, we identified GPi neurons with rhythmic firing at the frequency of contralateral tremor. There was a strong correlation between the tremor-related neuronal activity and limb tremor (r = 0.73). The majority of tremor-related neurons were located in the ventral one half of the caudal GPi, the area that is the target for pallidotomy. We found that pallidotomy produced striking improvements in off-period contralateral tremor. These effects were immediate and were maintained for &gt; or = 2 years. This benefit is obtained despite the progressive nature of the illness and the often reduced dose of medications after surgery.
Multidimensional evaluations are recommended for the assessment of tremor severity in clinical trials. The precise method of measuring a particular tremor influences the results of the measurement. Furthermore, complex natural tremor amplitude perturbations introduce the potential for sampling errors.
We implanted human embryonic mesencephalic tissue into the striatum of 13 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) and three patients with MPTP-induced parkinsonism. Based on our findings so far, as well as data from other groups, the following conclusions can be drawn: First, grafted dopamine (DA) neurons can survive in the human parkinsonian brain and reinnervate part of the host striatum. Second, long-term graft survival, at least up to 6 years after transplantation, is possible in PD despite a progressive degeneration of the patient's own DA neurons. Third, a majority of patients with surviving grafts show long-term improvement of therapeutic value but the symptomatic relief is, in most cases, incomplete. Presently, the most important research strategy to improve the functional recovery after transplantation is to increase the survival of grafted DA neurons and the density and extent of the dopaminergic reinnervation in the striatum.
The authors present a patient who had long-term improvement of a severe upper limb action tremor after chronic cortical stimulation. A 40-year-old woman complained of facial pain and tremor of the left arm after removal of an acoustic neurinoma. A motor cortex stimulation was performed to treat the deafferentation facial pain in 1993. Chronic cortical stimulation induced complete relief of both pain and tremor and allowed the patient to recover functional capacity of the limb. These effects persisted throughout a 32-month follow up. Differential effects on pain and tremor were observed when parameters of stimulation were varied, suggesting different mechanisms for the relief of pain and tremor. Attention was focused on control of the tremor. This effect could be the result of the inhibition of subcortical structures which are involved in tremor. Chronic cortical stimulation appears to be an effective treatment for controlling severe action tremors.
More reliable tools are needed for the differentiation of Parkinson's disease (PD) from other parkinsonian disorders. The neurofilament protein (NFL) and the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) are main structural proteins of axons and fibrillary astroglial cells. By using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, these proteins were quantified in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 49 patients referred to the Department of Neurology for diagnostic consideration or treatment of parkinsonism of different etiologies. All patients were first diagnostically evaluated by strict clinical criteria. The procedure included a neurologic and neuro-ophthalmologic examination as well as computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. These were performed independently and in advance of the CSF analysis. A total of 19 patients were diagnosed as having PD, 12 had progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and 10 had multiple-system atrophy (MSA). Eight were diagnosed as having other diseases, such as arteriosclerotic parkinsonism and undefined parkinsonian syndromes. The content of NFL was significantly higher both in the PSP group (p &lt; 0.001) and in the MSA group (p &lt; 0.0001) compared with the PD group. The high values of NFL indicate an ongoing neuronal degeneration affecting mainly the axonal compartment in the PSP and MSA groups, whereas there was no difference in glial involvement as measured by GFAP in the PD, PSP, and MSA groups. There was a relation between high CSF levels of NFL in the various patient groups and the occurrence of pyramidal symptoms (p &lt; 0.001), possibly reflecting the axonal damage to the corticospinal tract. Furthermore, mortality at 24-month follow up was associated with high NFL levels (p &lt; 0.01). We conclude that analysis of NFL in CSF may become useful in the differential diagnosis of parkinsonian syndromes.
Pregnancy is rare in Parkinson's disease (PD). In the literature on studies of antiparkinsonian drugs in animals during pregnancy, there are reports on malformations of the skeletal and circulatory system. However, the majority of studies in animals have not shown any teratogenicity. Amantadine has been teratogenic in rats and selegiline has caused neurochemical and behavioral alterations in rats when coadministered with clorgyline. The published experience with humans consists of 35 pregnancies among 26 women suffering from PD, including this report, and a number of cases treated with antiparkinsonian agents for other reasons. With the exception of the majority of the cases where amantadine was used, complications have been rare. However, there are indications that suggest a possible risk of a woman's parkinsonism worsening in connection with pregnancy. We also report the case of a woman with PD who was treated with L-dopa-benserazide during an uncomplicated pregnancy and gave birth to a healthy boy without experiencing any worsening of her PD.
We report a new form of congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD) in 4 patients from three unrelated families with probable autosomal-recessive inheritance. All patients had the clinical characteristics of merosin-positive congenital muscular dystrophy, but had marked mental retardation. The disease was slowly progressive and 1 patient died from dilated cardiomyopathy at the age of 13 years. In addition to dystrophic changes with necrosis and regeneration in muscle, the most striking finding was mitochondrial depletion in the center of the sarcoplasm. Mitochondria at the periphery of fibers were markedly enlarged (&quot;megaconial&quot; appearance) with complicated cristae, and contained a normal amount of mitochondrial DNA by in situ hybridization. Mitochondrial enlargement may represent functional compensation for mitochondrial depletion in the central sarcoplasm, where myofibrillar degeneration occurred.

This paper attempts to map medical research in India and answer an important policy question by literature analysis. I match the disease pattern on the basis of mortality and morbidity statistics with journals used by Indian medical researchers to publish their work as shown by the Science Citation Index (SCI). The former reflects the needs while the latter reflects the areas in which research is being done. The limited statistics available from both the Government of India and the World Health Organization point to diarrhoeal diseases, diseases of children, respiratory diseases, circulatory system diseases, infectious diseases, malaria and tuberculosis as the major medical problems faced by India. The journals used often by Indian medical researchers to publish their work, as seen from the SCI (1981-85), show that in terms of number of publications, they are mainly active in general medicine, pharmacology, tropical medicine, neurosciences, radiology, oncology and pathology. In terms of the share of the world's literature in different subfields, India is second only to USA in andrology, third in tropical medicine after the USA and the UK, tenth in hygiene and public health, and eleventh in general and internal medicine, and radiology and nuclear medicine. Overall, India's share in the medical journal literature is not only much less than that of many other countries, both advanced and middle level, but also much less than that of India's share of the literature in physics, chemistry, mathematics and engineering. Data on the observed citation impact of Indian research in different subfields of medicine show that the work done in India in general is not integrated well into international research. India could be much more purposive in her research priorities and probably should invest much more in medical research.
The role of release-inhibitory alpha2-adrenoceptors on or near noradrenergic nerve terminals was investigated in slices of rat nucleus accumbens and medial prefrontal cortex, representing major projection areas of mesocorticolimbic dopamine neurons. As expected, the electrically evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline from superfused medial prefrontal cortex slices was strongly inhibited (to about 25% of control values) by exogeneous noradrenaline and by the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist oxymetazoline, while blockade of alpha2-adrenoceptors with phentolamine or rauwolscine caused a large increase (to almost 250% of control values) in neurotransmitter release. In striking contrast and much to our surprise, these drugs did not at all affect the electrically evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline from nucleus accumbens slices. These results indicate that alpha2-adrenoceptor autoregulation of noradrenaline release may not be a major feature of noradrenergic varicosities in rat nucleus accumbens. Thus, the functioning or presence of these receptors may vary with the brain region innervated by locus coeruleus neurons and may not represent a ubiquitous feature of noradrenergic neurons.
In previous reports, [3H]5-HT has been used to characterize the pharmacology of the rat and human 5-HT2B receptors. 5-HT, the native agonist for the 5-HT2B receptor, has a limitation in its usefulness as a radioligand since it is difficult to study the agonist low-affinity state of a G protein-coupled receptor using an agonist radioligand. When using [3H]5-HT as a radioligand, rauwolscine was determined to have relatively high affinity for the human receptor (Ki human = 14.3+/-1.2 nM, compared to Ki rat = 35.8+/-3.8 nM). Since no known high affinity antagonist was available as a radioligand, these studies were performed to characterize [3H]rauwolscine as a radioligand for the cloned human 5-HT2B receptor expressed in AV12 cells. When [3H]rauwolscine was initially tested for its usefulness as a radioligand, complex competition curves were obtained. After testing several alpha2-adrenergic ligands, it was determined that there was a component of [3H]rauwolscine binding in the AV12 cell that was due to the presence of an endogenous alpha2-adrenergic receptor. The alpha2-adrenergic ligand efaroxan was found to block [3H]rauwolscine binding to the alpha2-adrenergic receptor without significantly affecting binding to the 5-HT2B receptor and was therefore included in all subsequent studies. In saturation studies at 37 degrees C, [3H]rauwolscine labeled a single population of binding sites, Kd = 3.75+/-0.23 nM. In simultaneous experiments using identical tissue samples, [3H]rauwolscine labeled 783+/-10 fmol of 5-HT2B receptors/mg of protein, as compared to 733+/-14 fmol of 5-HT2B receptors/mg of protein for [3H]5-HT binding. At 0 degrees C, where the conditions for [3H]5-HT binding should label mostly the agonist high affinity state of the human 5-HT2B receptor, [3H]rauwolscine (Bmax = 951+/-136 fmol/mg), again labeled significantly more receptors than [3H]5-HT (Bmax = 615+/-34 fmol/mg). The affinity of [3H]rauwolscine for the human 5-HT2B receptor at 0 degrees C did not change, Kd = 4.93+/-1.27 nM, while that for [3H]5-HT increased greatly (Kd at 37 degrees C = 7.76+/-1.06 nM; Kd at 0 degrees C = 0.0735+/-0.0081 nM). When using [3H]rauwolscine as the radioligand, competition curves for antagonist structures modeled to a single binding site, while agonist competition typically resulted in curves that best fit a two site binding model. In addition, many of the compounds with antagonist structures displayed higher affinity for the 5-HT2B receptor when [3H]rauwolscine was the radioligand. Typically, approximately 85% of [3H]rauwolscine binding was specific binding. These studies display the usefulness of [3H]rauwolscine as an antagonist radioligand for the cloned human 5-HT2B receptor. This should provide a good tool for the study of both the agonist high- and low-affinity states of the human cloned 5-HT2B receptor.
Since their conception half a century ago, Hebbian cell assemblies have become a basic term in the neurosciences, and the idea that learning takes place through synaptic modifications has been accepted as a fundamental paradigm. As synapses undergo continuous metabolic turnover, adopting the stance that memories are engraved in the synaptic matrix raises a fundamental problem: How can memories be maintained for very long time periods? We present a novel solution to this long-standing question, based on biological evidence of neuronal regulation mechanisms that act to maintain neuronal activity. Our mechanism is developed within the framework of a neural model of associative memory. It is operative in conjunction with random activation of the memory system and is able to counterbalance degradation of synaptic weights and normalize the basins of attraction of all memories. Over long time periods, when the variance of the degradation process becomes important, the memory system stabilizes if its synapses are appropriately bounded. Thus, the remnant memory system is obtained by a dynamic process of synaptic selection and growth driven by neuronal regulatory mechanisms. Our model is a specific realization of dynamic stabilization of neural circuitry, which is often assumed to take place during sleep.
We consider the role of contextual guidance in learning and processing within multi-stream neural networks. Earlier work ([Kay and Phillips, 1994][Kay and Phillips, 1996]; [Phillips et al., 1995]) showed how the goals of feature discovery and associative learning could be fused within a single objective and made precise using information theory in such a way that local binary processors could extract a single feature that is coherent across streams. In this paper, we consider multi-unit local processors with multivariate binary outputs that enable a greater number of coherent features to be extracted. Using the Ising model, we define a class of information-theoretic objective functions and also local approximations and derive the learning rules in both cases. These rules have similarities to, and differences from, the celebrated BCM rule. Local and global versions of infomax appear as by-products of the general approach, as well as multivariate versions of coherent infomax. Focussing on the more biologically plausible local rules, we describe some computational experiments designed to investigate specific properties of the processors and the general approach. The main conclusions are: (1) the local methodology introduced in the paper has the required functionality. (2) Different units within the multi-unit processors learned to respond to different aspects of their receptive fields. (3) The units within each processor generally produced a distributed code in which the outputs were correlated and which was robust to damage; in the special case where the number of units available was only just sufficient to transmit the relevant information, a form of competitive learning was produced. (4) The contextual connections enabled the information correlated across streams to be extracted and, by improving feature detection with weak or noisy inputs, they played a useful role in short-term processing and in improving generalization. (5) The methodology allows the statistical associations between distributed self-organizing population codes to be learned.
We measured the volumes of the entorhinal, perirhinal, and temporopolar cortices on magnetic resonance images by using a recently designed histology-based protocol in 30 patients with early Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 32 healthy control subjects. Compared to the controls, all of these cortical regions were significantly atrophied in AD patients (p &lt; 0.0001). However, the entorhinal cortex was the most severely involved brain region studied, with 40% volume loss, and this region provided the highest discriminative accuracy (92%) in separating patients with AD from healthy control subjects. Importantly, the entorhinal volume loss was evident already in mild AD. In addition, the volume of the entorhinal cortex was not dependent on age, but it did correlate significantly with the severity of the disease. Because it assesses the major site of initial neuropathological changes in AD, magnetic resonance imaging volumetric measurement of the entorhinal cortex can offer a tool for distinguishing AD patients even in the very early stages of the disease from healthy aged subjects.
We have demonstrated that normal betaAPP695 behave as a signaling receptor and indicated that point mutations at V642 create autoactive betaAPP in signal transduction. Cellular expression of those familial Alzheimer's disease-associated mutants causes neuronal cells to undergo apoptotic death; and procedures inhibiting the signal of normal betaAPP block the mutant-induced apoptosis. We have also shown that the mutant-induced death is mediated by intracellular G protein activity but not by secretion of Abeta peptides. Accordingly, the mutant-induced death requires a cytoplasmic domain but not the 41st and 42nd residues of the Abeta region. These studies provide a novel insight that betaAPP may play a normal role as a death receptor and that Alzheimer's disease-relevant abnormality occurred in this function may lead neurons to suicidal degeneration.
The significance of amyloid beta protein, especially those ending at the 42nd residue (Abeta42), in the pathogenesis of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) linked to the mutations of presenilins, was examined by transfection studies using cultured cells and immunohistochemical analysis of autopsied brains. The levels of Abeta42 secreted from cells transfected with mutant presenilins linked to FAD, as well as the Abeta42 burden in the cortices of patients with presenilin mutation were elevated. Thus, mutations in presenilin genes may enhance the production and deposition of Abeta42 in the brains, thereby leading to Alzheimer's disease.
This study examined the effects of posttraining administration of substance P (SP) and of certain N- or C-terminal SP-fragments on retention performance of rats treated with diazepam (DZP). Twenty minutes before the training on an inhibitory avoidance task rats were given intraperitoneal injections of either DZP (2 mg/kg) or vehicle. Immediately after they were injected with SP (50 micrograms/kg), SPN 1-7 (167 micrograms/kg), SPC 6-11 (134 micrograms/kg), or vehicle. The posttrial administration of SP and SPN, but not SPC, facilitated avoidance behavior. Animals that received DZP before training and vehicle after the conditioning trial showed impaired retention. In contrast, in animals injected with SP and SPN after the training trial, DZP did not affect retention. These findings suggest that the amnestic effects of DZP can be blocked by the administration of SP and that the amino acid sequence responsible for this effect may be encoded by its N-terminal part.
In the present work we propose an hypothetical model related to a molecular recognizing system for serotonin in isolated growth cone particles. This model is supported by previous results from our laboratory plus new ones which show that growth cones release serotonin tonically and such release can be stimulated by potassium in a calcium-dependent manner. The present results, together with other author's data, suggest a physiological basis for the putative role of serotonin as a trophic factor during nervous system development.
In the present investigation, effects of several agonists and antagonists of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) which are coupled to phosphatidyl inositol (PI) hydrolysis were evaluated in slices of neonatal rat hippocampus, striatum, cortex and cerebellum. The rank order of potency of agonists in the PI hydrolysis assay was identical in all brain regions: quisqualic acid (Quis) &gt; (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (3,5-DHPG) &gt; 1S, 3R-aminocyclopentane dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD) &gt; L-glutamate (Glu). All agonists were equiefficacious in the four brain regions tested. The responses to 3,5-DHPG, a highly selective Class I mGluR agonist, were attenuated by (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine ((S)-4CPG), (+)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine ((+)-MCPG) and 1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (UPF-523) with a rank order of potency of (+)-MCPG &gt; or = (S)-4CPG &gt; or = UPF-523 in the different brain regions. These results suggest little selectivity among these putative mGluR antagonists in the different brain regions studied. Interestingly, (S)-4-carboxy-3-hydroxyphenylglycine ((S)-4C3HPG), a compound reported to act as antagonist at Class I mGluRs, produced concentration-dependent increases in PI hydrolysis in all four brain regions suggesting that (S)-4C3HPG acts as an agonist. In striatum, hippocampus and cortex, (S)-4C3HPG was equiefficacious to Quis, 3,5-DHPG, 1S,3R-ACPD and Glu. However, in the cerebellum, (S)-4C3HPG displayed weak agonist activity (37% of that of a maximally effective concentration of Quis). The effects of (S)-4C3HPG in the PI hydrolysis assay appeared to be mediated by the activation of an mGluR subtype since it was significantly blocked by (S)-4CPG, an mGluR antagonist. In addition, the agonistic effects of (S)-4C3HPG appear to be unrelated to inhibition of [3H]-Glu uptake into rat hippocampal or cerebellar synaptosomes. These results demonstrate a unique pharmacological profile of (S)-4C3HPG which can be interpreted as (S)-4C3HPG being a highly selective mGluR5 agonist or alternatively, that the effects of (S)-4C3HPG may be mediated through a novel Class I mGluR subtype(s), yet to be identified.
The changes in the intracellular free Ca2+ concentration, [Ca2+]i, mediated by glutamate and D-aspartate into rat hippocampal synaptosomes was studied. Glutamate increased the [Ca2+]i in a dose-dependent manner with an EC50 of 1.87 microM and a maximal increase of 31.5 +/- 0.9 nM. We also observed that stimulation of the synaptosomes with 100 microM alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), 100 microM kainate, or 100 microM D-aspartate increased the synaptosomal [Ca2+]i. The effect of either of these non-NMDA receptor agonists and of D-aspartate was additive, suggesting the activation of two different components (the ionotropic non-NMDA receptors or the glutamate transporters). Stimulation of synaptosomes with 100 microM glutamate increased the [Ca2+]i and prevented the effect of either non-NMDA receptor agonists and the effect of D-aspartate. We also observed that incubation of the synaptosomes with D-aspartate induced the Ca(2+)-independent release of glutamate, possibly through the reversal of the glutamate carrier. The aim of incubating the synaptosomes with D-aspartate was to avoid undesirable secondary activation of glutamate receptors. After incubating the synaptosomes with 100 microM D-aspartate (10 min at 37 degrees C), the subsequent stimulation with D-aspartate increased the [Ca2+]i due to glutamate transport. This increase in [Ca2+]i induced by 100 microM D-aspartate was insensitive to 1 microM nitrendipine, but was inhibited by about 50% by the presence of both 500 nM omega-CgTx GVIA and 100 nM omega-Aga IVA or by 500 nM omega-CgTx MVIIC. We clearly identified two different processes by which glutamate increased the [Ca2+]i in rat hippocampal synaptosomes: activation of non-NMDA receptors and activation of the glutamate transporters. We also characterized the voltage sensitive Ca2+ channels (VSCC) activated as a consequence of the glutamate transport, and determined that class B (N-type) and class A (P or Q-type) Ca2+ channels were responsible for about 50% of the signal.
The hippocampal CA3 subregion of the rat is characteristically enriched in kainate receptors. At the synaptic level, the subcellular localization of these receptors is still a matter of debate. The CA3 pyramidal cells are particularly sensitive to excitotoxicity induced by kainate, which is in agreement with the high levels of kainate receptors in the stratum lucidum of the hippocampal CA3 subregion. Immunocytochemical studies, using antibodies against kainate receptor subunits, clearly demonstrated the presence of postsynaptic kainate receptors. However, it was not possible at the time to identify the activity of postsynaptic kainate receptors as mediators of the synaptic transmission. There are also reports showing the labeling of unmyelinated axons and nerve terminals with antibodies against kainate receptor subunits. The evidence for the presence of presynaptic kainate receptors in the hippocampus is further substantiated by the demonstration that stimulation of kainate receptors in synaptosomes isolated from the rat hippocampal CA3 subregion increases the intracellular free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) coupled to the release of glutamate. These results support the model proposed by Coyle (1983), in which the excitotoxicity induced by kainate involves the activation of presynaptic kainate receptors, causing the release of glutamate. According to this model, the neurotoxic effect of kainate in the rat hippocampal CA3 subregion involves a direct effect on presynaptic kainate receptors and an indirect effect on postsynaptic glutamate receptors due to the enhanced release of glutamate.
An improved three-step Percoll density gradient centrifugation technique is described for simultaneous isolation of glial plasmalemmal vesicles (GPV) and synaptosomal vesicles (SYN) from a rat brain homogenate. While electron microscopy revealed that fractions contained intact vesicles with markedly distinct morphological features, measures of high-affinity [3H]choline uptake, glutamine synthetase and carbonic anhydrase activities, as well as Western blot analyses for glial fibrillary acidic protein and neuron specific enolase, served to confirm the low level of neuronal contamination in GPV fractions as well as the low level of glial contamination in SYN fractions. In addition, GPV and SYN fractions were used to characterize the kinetic and pharmacological properties of sodium-dependent [3H]L-glutamate transport. In conclusion, these results demonstrate the usefulness of this method for obtaining highly-enriched, functionally viable populations of glial and neuronal elements which are suitable for studies of their respective cell functions in vitro.
The two most common causes of vascular dementia (VAD) are dementia evolving in connection with multiple small or large strokes and dementia related to ischemic white-matter lesions (WMLs) of the brain. The knowledge about risk factors for these disorders is still scarce. Besides sharing risk factors with stroke, dementia with multiple small or large brain infarcts is also associated with non-vascular risk factors such as high alcohol consumption, psychological stress in early life, lower formal education, blue collar occupation, and occupational exposures. Risk factors for dementia in stroke victims include stroke-related and non-stroke related risk factors. Non-stroke-related factors are similar to those found in Alzheimer's disease. The main risk factors for ischemic WMLs are hypertension or increased blood pressure, but WMLs have also been associated with a number of other vascular risk factors. In recent years, Alzheimer's disease (AD) has also been reported to be associated with vascular risk factors, including hypertension, coronary heart disease, atrial fibrillation, diabetes mellitus, and WMLs. Although these associations may reflect an overdiagnosis of AD in cases with silent cerebrovascular disease, or that cerebrovascular disease increases the possibility that individuals with Alzheimer lesions will express a dementia syndrome, there are also alternative explanations. AD and cerebrovascular disease may for instance share similar risk factors or etiologic pathways. The pathogenetic implications for the association between AD and vascular factors need to be further explored. There is also a need for more studies on risk factors for VAD and risk factors for dementia in stroke samples, as well as studies on non-vascular risk factors for ischemic WMLs.
A key function of attention is to select an appropriate subset of available information by facilitation of attended processes and/or inhibition of irrelevant processing. Functional imaging studies, using positron emission tomography, have during different experimental tasks revealed decreased neuronal activity in areas that process input from unattended sensory modalities. It has been hypothesized that these decreases reflect a selective inhibitory modulation of nonrelevant cortical processing. In this study we addressed this question using a continuous arithmetical task with and without concomitant disturbing auditory input (task-irrelevant speech). During the arithmetical task, irrelevant speech did not affect task-performance but yielded decreased activity in the auditory and midcingulate cortices and increased activity in the left posterior parietal cortex. This pattern of modulation is consistent with a top down inhibitory modulation of a nonattended input to the auditory cortex and a coexisting, attention-based facilitation of task-relevant processing in higher order cortices. These findings suggest that task-related decreases in cortical activity may be of functional importance in the understanding of both attentional mechanisms and task-related information processing.
The amount and distribution of growth-associated protein (GAP-43)-like immunoreactive nerve fibers in the spleen of normal and immunized BALB/c mice were studied using immunohistochemical methods. A significant increase in the amount, as well as redistribution and morphological changes, of the GAP-43-like immunoreactive nerve fibers occurred in PPD (purified protein derivative from tuberculin) immunized animals. In the control animals, the GAP-43-like immunoreactive nerve fibers were found mainly distributed in association with vascular plexuses, with minor extension into the parenchyma of the inner zone of the periarterial lymph sheath. In the immunized animals, in addition to denser vascular plexuses, more fibers appeared in the outer zone of the periarterial lymph sheath, the marginal zone, and the red pulp, all known to be the sites where immune responding lymphocytes are located. Furthermore, the nerve fibers tended to have more branches and bear richer varicosities. The results suggest that active nerve remolding takes place in the spleen during immune response, which may serve as a mechanism through which the nervous system regulates immune responses.
Though immune outcome is known to be determined by which helper T cell response predominates, no local mechanism has yet been established which can explain how the neuronal system may control this. It is possible that the nervous system releases neuropeptides at specific local sites of infection or challenge, which triggers lymphocytes at those points to release specific cytokine profiles. These may then influence the direction of the Th1/Th2 response and therefore immune outcome. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether and if so how neuropeptides influence cytokine production by lymphocytes, especially T cells. We investigated the effects of neuropeptide Y (NPY), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P (SP) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) on the production of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and interleukin-4 (IL-4) by stimulating nonadherent splenocytes and helper T cell clones with antigens in vitro in the presence or absence of these peptides. NPY greatly enhanced IL-4 production and inhibited IFN-gamma. CGRP inhibited IFN-gamma production markedly in a dose-dependent manner, but had no effects on IL-4 production. SP and VIP had no effects on IFN-gamma production, but SP enhanced and VIP suppressed IL-4 production slightly but consistently. Therefore neuropeptides can influence cytokine production. This opens the door to speculations that these specific cytokine profiles might play a part in influencing the direction of the consequent Th1/Th2 cascade and immune outcome and possibly the pathogenesis of immune-related diseases.
We quantified microtubule-associated protein tau in CSF (CSF tau) using ELISA assay in 168 subjects: 81 patients with clinically diagnosed early Alzheimer's disease (AD), 43 patients with other dementia, 11 Down's syndrome patients, and 33 nondemented neurologic control subjects. Multivariate ANOVA showed an effect of diagnostic group (p &lt; 0.01) and apolipoprotein E (apoE) allele (p &lt; 0.005) on CSF tau. Comparison between diagnostic groups showed higher CSF tau levels in AD than in the control group (p &lt; 0.001). However, CSF tau values in the non-AD dementia group did not differ significantly from those of AD patients or neurologic control subjects. Tau levels were increased (p &lt; 0.005) in AD patients with apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele, a well-characterized risk factor of AD, compared with AD patients without epsilon4 allele, and the highest values were found in AD patients with two epsilon4 alleles. These increased levels of CSF tau may indicate pronounced neuronal degeneration and neurofibrillar pathology at the early stage of AD in patients carrying the epsilon4 allele. This study shows that the current ELISA test for CSF tau is not sensitive and specific enough to distinguish early AD from other dementias and indicates that in the interpretation of CSF tau analysis as a diagnostic tool, the apoE genotype should also be taken into account.
To determine if linguistic processing could be selectively disrupted with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), rTMS was performed during a picture-word verification task. Seven right-handed subjects were trained in two conditions: picture-word verification, which required the subject to verify whether the picture of an object matched the subtitle name on the same page, and frame verification, which required subjects to verify whether there was a rectangular frame around the combined object picture and subtitle. Half of the trials were performed during rTMS. The effects of rTMS on performance were evaluated at the following four scalp positions: left anterior (the area where rTMS produced speech arrest), a mirror site on the right, and two positions in the left and right parietal region. Stimulation over the left deltoid muscle served as a control. Subjects had less difficulty in making picture-word matching decisions during unstimulated compared with stimulated trials at the left anterior and posterior positions. No significant difference in accuracy was detected in the frame verification condition, but response times in the frame verification condition were longer with stimulation at the left anterior position. Because rTMS of the dominant hemisphere affected linguistic processing independent of speech motor output, we confirm that rTMS may be used to investigate language and other cognitive functions.
Activation of presynaptic inhibitory receptors or high-frequency synaptic stimulation normally inhibits excitatory synaptic transmission by reducing transmitter release. We have explored the interactions between these two pathways for reducing synaptic strength and found that for synapses stimulated at high rates, agonists of the GABA(B) receptor become excitatory and strengthen transmission. At an auditory glutamatergic synapse featuring strong synaptic depression, the GABA(B) agonist baclofen reduced by 90% postsynaptic currents elicited at low frequency. By contrast, synaptic currents elicited at high frequencies were 5-fold larger in baclofen and had a markedly increased likelihood of firing well-timed postsynaptic action potentials. Presynaptic GABA(B) receptors may thus regulate transmitter release to enable sustained transmission at higher stimulus frequencies, thereby extending the dynamic range of neural circuits.
Nitric oxide (NO) produced by neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) is important for N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent neurotransmitter release, neurotoxicity, and cyclic GMP elevations. The coupling of NMDA receptor-mediated calcium influx and nNOS activation is postulated to be due to a physical coupling of the receptor and the enzyme by an intermediary adaptor protein, PSD95, through a unique PDZ-PDZ domain interaction between PSD95 and nNOS. Here, we report the identification of a novel nNOS-associated protein, CAPON, which is highly enriched in brain and has numerous colocalizations with nNOS. CAPON interacts with the nNOS PDZ domain through its C terminus. CAPON competes with PSD95 for interaction with nNOS, and overexpression of CAPON results in a loss of PSD95/nNOS complexes in transfected cells. CAPON may influence nNOS by regulating its ability to associate with PSD95/NMDA receptor complexes.


The role of the alpha-1 adrenoceptor in prepulse inhibition (PPI) was evaluated in rats. The alpha-1 adrenergic agonist cirazoline disrupted PPI; this effect was reversed by the alpha-1 adrenergic antagonist prazosin or the atypical antipsychotic quetiapine. Alpha-1 adrenoceptors may thus be involved in the regulation of PPI and in the psychotherapeutic actions of certain antipsychotics.
We studied the effect of YM-39558, orotic acid ethylester, in a focal cerebral ischemia model in anesthetized cats. YM-39558 has good permeability across the blood brain barrier, and in the brain is hydrolyzed to orotic acid, the main active substance. Cats were subjected to permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) for 6 h, then killed and examined histologically. Treatment with YM-39558 (intravenous infusion of 11.8 mg (10 mg as orotic acid)/6 ml per kg per h) starting 15 min after MCA occlusion markedly reduced the volume of ischemic damage (from 2450 +/- 82 mm3 of the cerebral hemisphere in the saline-treated cats to 1644 +/- 123 mm3 in the YM-39558-treated cats, P &lt; 0.01). In contrast, YM-39558 (2.26 and 1.18 mg/0.8 ml per kg per h) showed no significant protective effect on ischemic damage. No significant differences were observed between saline- and YM-39558-treated cats concerning physiological variables including brain temperature. This evidence for the neuroprotective efficacy of YM-39558 in gyrencephalic species suggests its therapeutic potential in the treatment of stroke in humans.

The mood around mood disorders is one of optimism. Progress in diagnosis and treatment is generally felt to be considerable. Zeitgeist rests on convictions. In this case the main supporting convictions are the following: depression is a very frequent disorder and its diagnosis has improved greatly; we dispose of more or less specific agents to control depression: biological psychiatric research made great strides, particularly in the field of affective disorders; new antidepressants are properly tested before being clinically introduced. Each of these convictions is critically analysed. It is concluded that each of these claims is either a half-truth or not true. Apparently reality awareness and reality testing are out of balance. This harms the prospects of research, particularly biological research. Ways to avoid the stalemate are discussed.
There are few clues as to the processes that underlie recovery of function from human amnesia. Evidence is offered from the perspective of a study of recovery of function during an episode of transient global amnesia (TGA) that occurred as a complication of a cerebral angiographic procedure being carried out in a neurosciences centre, and where there was therefore a unique opportunity to examine acute changes in memory function. This allowed us to conduct the first quantitative study where shrinkage of anterograde and retrograde memory loss was plotted at four separate intervals throughout the acute recovery process, and also 24 hr later. Recovery of retrograde amnesia preceded recovery from anterograde amnesia. Resolution of a naming deficit more closely paralleled recovery from retrograde amnesia rather than anterograde amnesia. Within retrograde amnesia for public events, there was a temporal gradient of memory loss, with more recent events affected to a greater degree than earlier events. Within anterograde amnesia, picture recognition memory preceded recovery of story recall memory. On the basis of these findings, and related observations in the published literature, it is proposed that recovery from some types of human amnesia, such as that associated with TGA, follows a 'lateral-to-medial' rule--lateral inferotemporal areas that play a major role in retrograde amnesia recover first from hypometabolism related to the TGA attack, followed by 'interface' areas such as the rhinal and parahippocampal cortices that are considered to have a role in both anterograde and retrograde memory functioning, with the last areas to recover physiological integrity being discrete limbic-diencephalic structures such as the hippocampus.
Domestic chicks show marked lateralization of visually evoked behaviour: left eye use is associated with, and has advantage for, the detection of novelty; right eye use is associated with the use of selected cues to determine what response should be given. Experiments undertaken to see how far such lateralization might be a transient feature of development showed similar patterns in both adults and chicks: (i) use of the right, but not the left, frontal field allowed the inhibition of pecks at a familiar social partner; (ii) in distant viewing, there was spontaneous preference for more use of the left eye when the social partner was familiar rather than unfamiliar. The chick data, in particular, support the hypothesis that the visual system fed by the right eye is especially competent in the control of response. This is shown by the ability of birds that are using the right eye to inhibit approach to an entirely novel potential social partner, and inhibit pecks at a familiar partner. The resemblances between chick and hen are sufficient to show that the basic adult pattern is already present in the young chick: the various developmental changes in features of lateralization, such as days of bias to control by one or other hemisphere, thus do not cause the appearance of the adult pattern.
We investigated the ability of dopamine D1 and D2 class receptor antagonists to prevent the induction of behavioral sensitization to cocaine. The D2 receptor antagonist eticlopride failed to prevent the induction of cocaine sensitization. An intermediate dose of the D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.1 mg/kg) appeared to prevent the induction of cocaine sensitization when tested after 3 days of withdrawal, but sensitization was clearly evident after 10 days of withdrawal. High doses of SCH 23390 alone produced supersensitivity to the behavioral effects of cocaine and to the inhibitory effects of D1 receptor agonists on nucleus accumbens neurons. Co-administration of eticlopride and SCH 23390 also failed to prevent the induction of cocaine sensitization. SCH 23390, but not eticlopride, prevented the expression of cocaine sensitization. We conclude that dopamine receptors are either not involved in the induction of cocaine sensitization or that redundant mechanisms exist to produce the same neuroadaptations.
Using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (1H-MRSI) we found in a previous study a specific pattern of neuronal pathology in patients with schizophrenia as determined by relative loss of signal from N-acetyl-containing compounds (NAA). The purpose of the present study was to assess the reproducibility of the results of 1H-MRSI both in patients with schizophrenia and in normal controls. We studied twice 10 patients and 10 controls on 2 days separated by, on average, 3 months. Reproducibility was assessed with several statistical procedures including ANOVA, coefficients of variation (CVs) and intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC). Patients showed significant reductions of NAA/creatine-phosphocreatine (CRE) and NAA/choline-containing compounds (CHO) selectively in the hippocampal region (HIPPO) and in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) on both experimental days. A repeated measures ANOVA showed no effect of time on metabolite ratios in all subjects. CVs were fairly low (especially for NAA/CRE and CHO/CRE) and did not differ significantly between patients and controls. The ICCs of the ROIs reached statistical significance only in a few instances. The present multislice 1H-MRSI study shows that: (1) patients with schizophrenia, when compared as a group to normal controls, show a consistent 1H-MRSI pattern of group differences, i.e., bilateral reductions of NAA/CRE and NAA/CHO in HIPPO and DLPFC; (2)1H-MRSI data in both patients and controls do not show significant changes over this 90-day period; however, absolute metabolite ratios in individuals show low predictability over this time interval; (3) 1H-MRSI data show relatively low variability (as measured by the CVs) both in patients and normal controls, especially for NAA/CRE and CHO/CRE.
Studies were carried out in rats anesthetized with ketamine or nembutal, with recording of multicellular activity (with separate identification of responses from individual neurons) in the primary auditory cortex before and after electrical intracortical microstimulation. These experiments showed that about half of the set of neurons studied produced responses to short tonal bursts, these responses having two components-initial discharges arising in response to the sound, and afterdischarge occurring after pauses of 50-100 msec. Afterdischarges lasted at least several seconds, and were generally characterized by a rhythmic structure (with a frequency of 8-12 Hz). After electrical microstimulation, the level of spike activity increased, especially in afterdischarges, and this increase could last up to 4 h. Combined peristimulus histograms, cross-correlations, and gravitational analyses were used to demonstrate interactions of neurons, which increased after electrical stimulation and were especially pronounced in the response afterdischarges.
It is argued that both stimulus-response (S-R) and cognitive theories of learning and behaviour capture part of the truth, in that these terms involve two different types of process that are jointly responsible for the control of behaviour. The proposal that both processes coexist is investigated in the context of the production of behaviour. Evidence is presented to show that the weighting attached to S-R and cognitive processes can change as a function of (a) development; (b) experience; and (c) pathology. A model is proposed which is designed to sketch some ideas on how S-R and cognitive processes jointly determine behaviour, and it is related to the notion of behavioural hierarchy. It is argued that the model can help to develop a synthesis between psychology, ethology and neuroscience.




A growing body of evidence indicates spatial patterning of molecular expression and physiological activities in the olfactory epithelium and primary afferent circuits of the vertebrate olfactory bulb. Because our previous studies indicate that olfactory receptors specific for amino acids and a bile acid, taurocholic acid, project to segregated coding centres in the olfactory bulb, we further examined the afferent projections and pathways of the primary neuronal responses to putative pheromones by recording the electroencephalogram from various regions of the olfactory bulb. First, using the electro-olfactogram, we determined olfactory sensitivities of six salmonid species to these odorants. Prostaglandin F2 alpha and 15-keto-prostaglandin F2 alpha were potent olfactory stimulants for all tested salmonids, except rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). None of the salmonids responded to 17 alpha,20 beta-dihydroxy-4-pregnen-3-one. However, they were sensitive to etiocholan-3 alpha-ol-17-one glucuronide. In all salmonids examined, electroencephalograms to amino acids and taurocholic acid, applied singly or in combination, projected to two segregated regions, the lateroposterior and mid-olfactory bulb, respectively. Neither prostaglandin F2 alpha, 15-keto-prostaglandin F2 alpha nor etiocholan-3 alpha-ol-17-one glucuronide elicited electroencephalograms. These data indicate that, in salmonids, olfactory neurons responsive to amino acids and taurocholic acid project to spatially segregated regions, and thereby generated signals are encoded spatially and temporarily. The results also suggest that olfactory signals due to hormonal pheromones are processed in a manner distinct from those for amino acids and bile acids, and may possibly be mediated by extrabulbar primary olfactory fibres bypassing the bulb.
The in vitro and in vivo effect of melatonin on delta-aminolevulinic acid-induced lipid peroxidation in rat cerebellum, cortex and hippocampus was determined. The concentration of malonaldehyde and 4-hydroxyalkenals was assayed as an index of induced membrane oxidative damage. The rise in malonaldehyde+4-hydroxyalkenals concentrations induced by delta-aminolevulinic acid in cerebellar homogenates was concentration-dependent (P &lt; 0.001) and also time-dependent in cerebellar, cortical and hippocampal homogenates (P &lt; 0.01). In vitro melatonin and vitamin E protected, in a concentration-dependent manner, against delta-aminolevulinic acid-induced lipid peroxidation in cortical, cerebellar and hippocampal homogenates. In in vivo experiments it was demonstrated that delta-aminolevulinic acid-induced lipid peroxidation (40 mg/kg) in cerebellum and hippocampus was reduced by acute melatonin (10 mg/kg) treatment (P &lt; 0.05). The results show that both in vitro and in vivo melatonin confers protection against delta-aminolevulinic acid-induced oxidative toxicity in brain regions. The findings suggest that melatonin may be useful in reducing neural damage in individuals suffering from acute intermittent porphyria.
The immediate-early gene encoded transcription factor c-Jun is highly inducible following axotomy and therefore serves as a valuable marker in neuronal de- and regeneration. As the signals that may trigger c-Jun expression are still obscure, molecules derived from lesioned neurons and/or their targets such as growth factors or cytokines have been proposed as candidates for interneuronal transcriptional regulation in vivo. We therefore tested whether local administration of the neuroprotective cytokine fibroblast growth factor type-2 in vivo has an effect on the axotomy-induced nuclear expression patterns of the activator protein-1 transcription factors c-Fos and JunB, or c-Jun in the spinal cord-intermedolateral nucleus-adrenal axis lesion paradigm in the rat. Partial axotomy of preganglionic nerve fibres by selective unilateral removal of the adrenal medulla resulted in strong staining patterns of c-Jun in the nuclei of preganglionic cell bodies located in the spinal intermediolateral cell column identified by in vivo retrograde prelabelling with the fluorescent tracer Fast Blue prior to lesion. Axotomy-induced nuclear c-Jun expression was highly increased when compared with the moderate baseline expression in normal or sham-operated animals. In animals treated with fibroblast growth factor-2 gelfoams implanted to the lesioned adrenal gland the nuclear c-Jun staining pattern is reduced or even absent from these neurons. By contrast, c-Fos and JunB induction did not occur in the intermediolateral nucleus in the lesion paradigm investigated. These results support the idea of functional links between neurotrophic cytokines such as fibroblast growth factor-2 and transcriptional effectors such as c-Jun. The target derived fibroblast growth factor-2 thus may signal the intactness of the neuron-target axis resulting in suppression of central extrinsic neurons and promotion of neuroprotective gene activation. Neuronal survival in absence of c-Jun indicates that c-Jun exerts negative actions in vulnerated neurons.
To reveal brain sites simultaneously active during the expression of maternal behaviour in lactating rats, we used immunocytochemical visualization of the nuclear protein product Fos of the immediate-early gene c-fos as a marker of neuronal activity. After a 48 h separation from their litter, day 7 postpartum dams received a 1 h period of physical interaction with pups either capable or incapable of suckling, inaccessible pups in a wire-mesh box, an empty box, or no stimulation. Physical interaction with pups elicited high levels of pronurturant maternal behaviour (retrieval, licking, mouthing), and suckling elicited nursing behaviour as well. Exposure to the box, with or without pups, elicited high levels of investigatory sniffing, self-grooming, and general activity. Distal stimulation from pups did not differentially activate Fos in any of 20 sites, including olfactory-processing structures such as the piriform cortex and medial amygdala. Physical interaction with pups, with or without suckling, elicited higher levels of Fos-immunoreactive nuclei than that of other conditions in numerous sites, including many previously implicated in maternal behaviour (medial preoptic nucleus, nucleus accumbens, lateral septum, lateral habenula, and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis). Similar group patterns of Fos expression also occurred in sites not previously implicated in maternal behaviour (somatosensory cortex and paraventricular thalamic nucleus). Interaction with nonsuckling pups elicited the highest levels of Fos in the cortical amygdala, whereas suckling did not activate higher Fos than nonsuckling interaction in any site included in this report, including hypothalamic nuclei involved in lactation (paraventricular, supraoptic, and arcuate). There was little or no Fos in cingulate cortex, olfactory tubercle, medial septum, medial habenula, or ventromedial hypothalamus. These data suggest that trigeminal stimuli received by lactating rats during the performance of pronurturant maternal behaviour promote cellular activity resulting in neuronal expression of c-fos in many forebrain sites including the medial preoptic nucleus, several sites connected with it that are part of the mesotelencephalic dopamine system, and in the somatosensory cortex. In contrast, in these forebrain sites suckling does not elicit greater levels of Fos than that seen in nonsuckled rats and distal stimuli from pups are ineffective in increasing Fos levels compared with non-stimulated controls.
This study was designed to evaluate whether the enzymes of the nitric oxide/cyclic-GMP pathway, nitric oxide synthase and soluble guanylyl cyclase, are functionally coupled in controlling catecholamine secretion in primary cultures of bovine chromaffin cells. In immunocytochemical studies, 80-85% of the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive chromaffin cells also possessed phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase, f1p4cating their capability to synthesize epinephrine. Immunoreactivity for neuronal-type nitric oxide synthase was found in over 90% of all chromaffin cells. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction also demonstrated neuronal-type nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA. Immunoreactivity for soluble guanylyl cyclase was detectable in over 95% of chromaffin cells. Double-labeling immunofluorescence studies co-localized neuronal-type nitric oxide synthase and soluble guanylyl cyclase with tyrosine hydroxylase and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase in the majority of chromaffin cells. Chromaffin cells possessed basal nitric oxide synthase activity which could be stimulated by acetylcholine and inhibited by NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester. Activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase by endogenously synthesized nitric oxide or the nitric oxide donor compound sodium nitroprusside was blocked by the inhibitor of soluble guanylyl cyclase 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one. Catecholamine release and the increase in cytosolic Ca2+ concentration evoked by acetylcholine were enhanced by inhibitors of the endogenous nitric oxide/cyclic-GMP pathway such as NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one and the protein kinase G inhibitor Rp-8-pCPT-cGMPS. These data indicate that chromaffin cells possess an autocrine nitric oxide/cyclic-GMP pathway tonically controlling the inhibition of catecholamine release.
Penile erection is due to activation of proerectile neurons located in the sacral parasympathetic nucleus of the L6-S1 spinal cord in the rat. Contraction of the ischiocavernosus and bulbospongiosus striated muscles, controlled by motoneurons located in the ventral horn of the L5-L6 spinal cord, reinforces penile erection. Physiological and pharmacological arguments have been provided for a role of oxytocin and serotonin in the spinal regulation of penile erection. Immunohistochemistry of oxytocinergic and serotonergic fibres was performed at the lumbosacral level of the male rat spinal cord, and combined with retrograde tracing from the pelvic nerve or from the ischiocavernosus and bulbospongiosus muscles using wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase. Sacral preganglionic neurons retrogradely labelled from the pelvic nerve formed a homogeneous population, predominant at the L6 level. Motoneurons retrogradely labelled from the ischiocavernosus and bulbospongiosus muscles were observed in the medial part of the dorsolateral and in the dorsomedial nuclei. Fibres immunoreactive for oxytocin were mainly distributed in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn, the dorsal gray commissure and the sacral parasympathetic nucleus. Some of these fibres were apposed to retrogradely-labelled sacral preganglionic neurons and at the ultrastructural level, some synapses were evidenced. Fibres immunoreactive for serotonin were largely and densely distributed in the dorsal horn, the dorsal gray commissure, the sacral parasympathetic nucleus and the ventral horn. Some serotonergic fibres occurred in close apposition with retrogradely-labelled sacral preganglionic neurons and motoneurons, and synapses were demonstrated at the ultrastructural level. This study provides morphological support for a role of oxytocin and serotonin on sacral preganglionic neurons innervating pelvic organs and motoneurons innervating the ischiocavernosus and bulbospongiosus muscles.
To understand the role of opioids and their receptors in chronic pain following peripheral nerve injury, we have studied the mu-opioid receptor in rat and monkey lumbar 4 and 5 dorsal root ganglion neurons and the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord under normal circumstances and after peripheral axotomy. Our results show that many small neurons in rat and monkey dorsal root ganglia, and some medium-sized and large neurons in rat dorsal root ganglia, express mu-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity. Most of these neurons contain calcitonin gene-related peptide. The mu-opioid receptor was closely associated with the somatic plasmalemma of the dorsal root ganglion neurons. Both mu-opioid receptor-immunoreactive nerve fibers and cell bodies were observed in lamina II of the dorsal horn. The highest intensity of mu-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity was observed in the deep part of lamina II. Most mu-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn originated from spinal neurons. A few mu-opioid receptor-positive peripheral afferent terminals in the rat and monkey dorsal horn were calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive. In addition to pre- and post-junctional receptors in rat and monkey dorsal horn neurons, mu-opioid receptors were localized on the presynaptic membrane of some synapses of primary afferent terminals in the monkey dorsal horn. Peripheral axotomy caused a reduction in the number and intensity of mu-opioid receptor-positive neurons in the rat and monkey dorsal root ganglia, and of mu-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. The decrease in mu-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity was more pronounced in the monkey than in the rat dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord. It is probable that there was a parallel trans-synaptic down-regulation of mu-opioid-like immunoreactivity in local dorsal horn neurons of the monkey. These data suggest that one factor underlying the well known insensitivity of neuropathic pain to opioid analgesics could be due to a marked reduction in the number of mu-opioid receptors in the axotomized sensory neurons and in interneurons in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord.
The reaction of shock, a precipitous, life-threatening fall in arterial pressure and heart rate, is evoked often by the combination of deep pain and blood loss following traumatic injury. A similar &quot;shock-like&quot; pattern of response can be evoked by excitation of the ventrolateral midbrain periaqueductal gray. Further, ventrolateral periaqueductal gray neurons are selectively activated by deep somatic or visceral pain and haemorrhage. The pathways mediating ventrolateral periaqueductal gray evoked hypotension and bradycardia are not known. In this study, the projections from the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray to &quot;cardiovascular&quot; regions in the caudal medulla of the rat were examined. Injections of the anterograde tracer, biotinylated dextran amine at physiologically-defined, ventrolateral periaqueductal gray depressor sites, revealed strong projections to the caudal midline medulla and to the depressor region of the caudal ventrolateral medulla. Injections of excitatory amino acids established that substantial falls in arterial pressure could be evoked from the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray-recipient parts of the caudal midline medulla. Injections of the retrograde tracer, cholera toxin subunit B at physiologically-defined, depressor sites in the caudal midline medulla and the caudal ventrolateral medulla confirmed the existence of substantial projections from the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. Although previous studies have emphasized the importance of projections from the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray to the pressor region of the rostral ventrolateral medulla, this study has revealed the existence of strong ventrolateral periaqueductal gray projections to depressor regions within the caudal medulla (caudal midline medulla and caudal ventrolateral medulla) which likely contribute to ventrolateral periaqueductal gray-mediated hypotension and bradycardia.
In our previous study we revealed the presence of clustered large calretinin-immunoreactive multipolar cells in the ventral hilus of the mouse dentate gyrus and indicated that they might be mossy cells, the principal neurons in the dentate hilus. In the present study we confirmed this identification with several methods and analysed further in detail. In Golgi-impregnated samples mossy cells were easily identified by their locations and characteristic thorny excrescences on their proximal dendrites. Golgi-impregnated mossy cells were observed not only in the ventral hilus but also in the dorsal hilus, where no calretinin-immunoreactive large multipolar cells were encountered. Interestingly, mossy cells exhibited dorsoventral differences in the size and complexity of thorny excrescences; mossy cells at the dorsal and middle levels had larger and more complex thorny excrescences, which covered dendritic shafts for a longer distance, while ventral mossy cells had smaller, simpler and shorter thorny excrescences. Confocal laser scanning light microscopic observations at a high magnification showed that the vast majority of calretinin-immunoreactive large neurons in the ventral hilus displayed the thorny excrescences characteristic to mossy cells. Mossy cells identified with the intracellular injection of Lucifer Yellow were calretinin-immunoreactive. Electron microscopic observations clearly revealed that calretinin-immunoreactive elements showed structural features of mossy cells such as thorny excrescences receiving typical synapses from mossy fibre terminals. At the supragranular zone, a well-known target zone of mossy cell axons, a dense calretinin-immunoreactive band was seen, where numerous calretinin-immunoreactive punctae and fibres were packed. Electron microscopic observations revealed that these calretinin-immunoreactive axon terminals in the supragranular zone made asymmetrical synapses on presumed granule cell dendritic spines. Tracer injection studies and lesion experiments indicated that the supragranular calretinin-immunoreactive axon terminals mainly originated from the large calretinin-immunoreactive multipolar cells in the ipsilateral ventral hilus. Fluorescent double immunostaining for calretinin and glutamate receptor 2/3 (GluR2/3) revealed that all large calretinin-immunoreactive hilar cells in the ventral level were GluR2/3-immunoreactive and almost all intensely GluR2/3-immunoreactive hilar cells in the ventral level were calretinin-immunoreactive. In addition intensely GluR2/3-immunoreactive but calretinin-negative large cells were encountered in the dentate hilus at the dorsal level. On the basis of these observations, we concluded that large calretinin-immunoreactive cells in the ventral hilus of the mouse dentate gyrus were really mossy cells and that mossy cells at the dorsal level were calretinin negative. The present study revealed that mouse mossy cells show the dorsoventral difference in the calretinin immunoreactivity and thus they are chemically heterogeneous.
The hippocampal region of apolipoprotein E-deficient mice of varying ages was examined for any morphological changes by light and electron microscopy. Unusual periodic acid-Schiff-positive granules were seen in the hippocampal area of these animals as early as the fourth week of life and their numbers increased gradually with age. These granules were never found in control C57BL/6J (B6) mice before six months-of-age and their numbers were invariable low. They were strongly congophilic when stained with a modified Congo Red technique and reacted with a monoclonal antibody specific to amino acids 17-24 and 35-43 of the beta-amyloid peptide. The immunostaining of these granules with the beta-amyloid peptide was lost after specific adsorption with the appropriate synthetic peptide. These granules were identified ultrastructurally as non-membrane-bound fibrillogranular material in the cytoplasm of protoplasmic astrocytes. The data indicate that an amyloid-like protein accumulates in the protoplasmic astrocytes of the hippocampus of apolipoprotein E-deficient mice, especially in the brains of old animals.
Tyrosine-specific protein phosphorylation has been recently implicated in mediating pathological changes associated with cerebral ischemia. In the present study, acute hypoxia/ischemia (anoxia) was simulated in vitro by incubating rat hippocampal slices in glucose-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid saturated with 95% N2/5% CO2. A marked decrease in the level of tyrosine phosphorylation of many protein bands compared with the control was observed. Immunoprecipitation and western blot confirmed that the NR2A/2B subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are among the dephosphorylated proteins. Maximal dephosphorylation of bands corresponding to NR2A/2B was reached after 10 min, and no recovery was observed even after 1 h in normal, oxygenated artificial cerebrospinal fluid. The effect was partially blocked by dephostatin, a membrane-permeable inhibitor of protein tyrosine phosphatases, but was not affected by the presence of glutamate receptor antagonists, or by removing extracellular Ca2+ or chelating intracellular Ca2+. Enzyme assay showed that anoxic stimulation resulted in a selective reduction in protein tyrosine kinase activity without affecting protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. Thus the present work suggests that anoxic stimulation produces a selective inhibition of protein tyrosine kinase activity leading to tyrosine-dephosphorylation of several proteins including the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. The underlying mechanism may involve a novel signal transduction pathway, which may protect neurons from degeneration during ischemic stress.
Social stress by repeated defeat has been shown to be endowed with neuroendocrine and behavioural effects that render this stress model useful to identify adaptive mechanisms. Among these mechanisms, those related to central serotonergic systems (e.g., hippocampal 5-HT1A receptors, cortical 5-HT2A receptors) have been particularly underlined. Nonetheless, how (i) the neuroendocrine and behavioural effects of social stress are affected by the genetic status of the animal, and (ii) this status affects the relationships between central serotonergic systems and adaptive processes has not been studied so far. The present study has thus analysed the effects of repeated defeat (once a day for seven days) by Long-Evans resident rats upon the psychoneuroendocrine profile of Lewis rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats previously characterized for their contrasting social and anxiety-related behaviours. Repeated defeat decreased in a time-dependent manner, body weight growth and food intake in both strains, these decreases being, however, more severe and longer lasting in Lewis rats. This strain-dependent difference could not be accounted for by differences in physical contacts with the resident rats as the number of attacks and their latency throughout the stress period were similar between spontaneously hypertensive and Lewis rats. When exposed to an elevated plus-maze test of anxiety, the unstressed Lewis rats entered less the open arms than their spontaneously hypertensive counterparts, thus confirming that Lewis rats are more anxious than spontaneously hypertensive rats. This difference was amplified by stress as the latter increased anxiety-related behaviours in Lewis rats only. These strain- and stress-related differences were associated with differences in locomotor activity, this being increased in unstressed Lewis compared with spontaneously hypertensive rats; moreover, stress triggered hypolocomotion in the former but not the latter strain. Lastly, in the forced swimming test. Lewis rats spent more time immobile than spontaneously hypertensive rats with stress increasing immobility in a strain-independent manner. Beside the aforementioned metabolic changes, the activity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis was slightly stimulated in a strain-independent manner by the stressor, as assessed by increased corticosterone levels and adrenal weights, and decreased thymus weights. In Lewis, but not in spontaneously hypertensive rats, midbrain serotonin metabolism was increased by stress, a difference associated with an increased Bmax value of cortical [3H]ketanserin binding at 5-HT2A receptors. On the other hand, the Bmax value of hippocampal [3H]8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin binding at 5-HT1A receptors was decreased by stress, this reduction being amplified in spontaneously hypertensive compared with Lewis rats. This study shows that the psychoneuroendocrine responses to social stress may have a genetic origin, and that the use of socially stressed Lewis and spontaneously hypertensive rats may provide an important paradigm to study adaptive processes. However, whether the aforementioned strain-dependent differences in central serotonergic systems (partly or totally) underlie the distinct profiles of emotivity measured in spontaneously hypertensive and Lewis rats, is discussed in the context of the relationships between serotonergic systems and behavioural responses to novel environments.
The effect of re-exposure of rats to an aversive environment on the induction of long-term potentiation was investigated in the CA3 region 3 and 12 h after contextual conditioning. Electro-physiological recordings showed that re-exposure of rats to the conditioning chamber produced a significant and long-lasting decrease in population spike amplitude at both post-conditioning delays. High-frequency stimulation of the fimbria induced a large and persistent increase in CA3 population spike amplitude (about 400% of baseline) in animals of control groups and shocked animals that were not re-exposed to the conditioning environment. However, high-frequency stimulation applied during re-exposure of shocked subjects 3 h after the initial exposure resulted in a small and transient increase in population spike amplitude (about 140% of baseline); when applied 12 h after the initial exposure, it produced a persistent depression of the response (-30% of baseline). Behavioural testing indicated that re-exposure of shocked animals to the conditioning environment elicited a qualitatively and quantitatively similar freezing behaviour at both post-conditioning delays (3 or 12 h). In contrast to the long-lasting decrease in CA3 population spike amplitude produced by re-exposure to the aversive environment, the level of freezing behaviour diminished rapidly within 10 min of exposure. These results suggest that, during exposure to a conditioned aversive environment, alterations in fimbria-CA3 neural processing may be dissociated from contextual fear-induced freezing behaviour. In addition, processes underlying long-term potentiation induction in fimbria-CA3 pathway may be opposite to those taking place during hippocampal processing of conditioned aversive contexts.
The ability of intrastriatally-administered glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor to induce reinnervation and functional recovery in the partially-lesioned nigrostriatal dopamine system was explored in rats subjected to an axon terminal lesion induced by injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the striatum. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor was administered as multiple intrastriatal injections (10 x 5 micrograms) over a three-week period starting four weeks after the 6-hydroxydopamine injection, i.e. at the time when the acute phase of degeneration of the nigral dopamine neurons is complete. In the control group the lesion induced a 75-90% reduction of the dopaminergic innervation in the dorsolateral striatum (assessed by [3H]N-[1-(2-benzo(b)thiopenyl)cyclohexyl]piperidine-labelled dopamine uptake sites), and an approximately 50% reduction in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell bodies in the central part of the substantia nigra, accompanied by a significant impairment in spontaneous motor behaviour, as assessed by a forelimb stepping test. In the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-treated animals striatal [3H]N-[1-(2-benzo(b)thiopenyl)cyclohexyl]piperidine binding was restored to 70-95% of normal and contralateral forelimb stepping was completely normalized. The extent of striatal denervation in the individual lesioned and treated animals was well correlated with the performance of the affected limb in the stepping test. These results show that intrastriatal glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor can stimulate substantial axonal sprouting and reinnervation of the partially deafferated striatum to a degree sufficient to reverse the lesion-induced deficit in spontaneous motoric behaviour, indicating that a direct action of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor on spared dopaminergic afferents in the striatum may be important for functional recovery in the rat Parkinson model.
The present study investigated whether glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor prevents the progressive striatal degeneration induced by chronic systemic administration of the mitochondrial toxin, 3-nitropropionic acid. In addition, the effects of delayed treatment with glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor on toxin-induced behavioural and neurochemical deficits were determined. Locomotor activity in rats infused with 3-nitropropionic acid (15 mg/kg/day, for four weeks) via subcutaneous osmotic minipumps was considerably reduced compared to control rats. However, in rats given a single intracerebroventricular injection of 100 micrograms of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, locomotor activity was significantly higher than in rats injected with the vehicle, an effect that was most pronounced at the onset of toxin infusion. Consistent with a protective or restorative effect in this model of striatal neurodegeneration, toxin-induced deficits in markers of neurotransmitter function were attenuated by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor. Thus, [3H]GABA uptake and [3H]tiagabine/GABA uptake sites in striatal target tissues (globus pallidus and substantia nigra), as well as [3H]choline uptake, choline acetyltransferase activity and dopamine receptor binding in the striatum were decreased by the toxin and restored to varying degrees by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor administration. As with locomotor abnormalities, effects on neurochemical deficits were most prominent when glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor was given at the start of toxin infusion, but remained significantly higher than in the vehicle-injected rats when given up to two weeks after. Substance P, dynorphin A and [Met]enkephalin levels in the striatal target tissues also were reduced by 3-nitropropionic acid. The results show that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor protects striatal neurons from slow excitotoxic cell death resulting from energy deprivation, secondary to mitochondrial dysfunction. Moreover, they suggest that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor may be a viable therapeutic agent for slowly progressive central nervous system disorders, like Huntington's disease, that may be caused by secondary excitotoxicity resulting from abnormal energy utilization.
Neuropeptide Y and peptide YY are important central and peripheral modulators of cardiovascular and neuroendocrine functions, that act through multiple receptor subtypes, Y1 through Y5. A neuropeptide Y-binding site of the Y2 type was characterized by ligand-binding studies in isolated nerve terminals from the rat neurohypophysis. Functionally, neuropeptide Y and peptide YY dose-dependently triggered arginine 8-vasopressin and oxytocin release from perfused isolated terminals, and potentiated the arginine-8-vasopressin release induced by depolarization. Osmotic stimulation by salt loading of rats for two and seven days caused a more than three-fold increase in the neuropeptide Y content of the nerve endings. However, the Y2 receptor expression and arginine-8-vasopressin content declined, showing that the neuropeptide Y system is dynamic and suggesting that it plays a physiological role in salt and water homeostasis. Two sets of observations suggest the arginine-8-vasopressin release by neuropeptide Y may not be explained by neuropeptide Y effects on intracellular Ca2+. First, absence of Ca2+ from the perfusion medium did not affect the arginine-8-vasopressin release, and secondly neuropeptide Y did not change intraterminal Ca2+ concentrations. Pretreatment with pertussis toxin blocked arginine-8-vasopressin secretion by neuropeptide Y, suggesting activation of Gi or Go heterotrimeric G-proteins are required for secretion. It is concluded, that the nerve endings of the neurohypophysis contain a complete neuropeptide Y system with ligand and receptors. Neuropeptide Y may act in an autocrine fashion via activation of Y2 neuropeptide Y receptors to stimulate the release of vasopressin and oxytocin via a Gi/Go dependent secretory mechanism.
Neuronal dysfunction and cell death in patients with human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) infection may be mediated by HIV-1 proteins and products released from infected cells. Two HIV-1 proteins, the envelope glycoprotein gp120 and nonstructural protein Tat, are neurotoxic. We have determined the neuroexcitatory properties of HIV-1 tat protein using patch-clamp recording techniques. When fmoles of Tat were applied extracellularly, it elicited dose-dependent depolarizations of human fetal neurons in culture and rat CA1 neurons in slices, both in the absence and presence of tetrodotoxin. These responses were voltage-dependent, reversed at approximately 0 mV, and were significantly increased by repetitive applications with no evidence of desensitization. That these responses to Tat were due to direct actions on neurons was supported by observations that Tat dose-dependently depolarized outside-out patches excised from cultured human neurons. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ decreased the responses both in neurons and membrane patches. This is the first demonstration that an HIV-1 protein can, in the absence of accessory cells, directly excite neurons and leads us to speculate that Tat may be a causative agent in HIV-1 neurotoxicity.
Synchronized oscillatory behaviour of neurons within the dorsal accessory olive of the rat were monitored across spontaneous changes in rapid, co-ordinated limb movements associated with the estrous (hormone) and circadian cycles as well as following local administration of estradiol. Facilitation of rapid alterations in limb movement is observed following increases in circulating estradiol and progesterone on the night of behavioural estrus, as assessed by the ability of a rat to maintain a consistent position on a treadmill in response to variable changes in acceleration. Synchronized olivary activity was determined using chronically implanted bundles of microwires (50 microns diameter) to record from as many as 23 individual olivary neurons simultaneously across several four to five day estrous cycles, and in some cases after injection of the estrous hormones, estradiol and/or progesterone, either by systemic or local administration. Rats were tested during non-movement, constant speed locomotion or using a variable acceleration paradigm. Olivary oscillations were most commonly observed during treadmill locomotion with variable changes in acceleration. Local administration of estradiol, in combination with systemic progesterone administration, enhanced rhythmic olivary oscillations during this paradigm. At this time, at least a six-fold increase in the size of the coupled cluster of rhythmically discharging olivary neurons was observed compared with values obtained on diestrus, a low hormone state. Similar facilitating effects on olivary oscillations were observed on estrus, or following systemic injection of both estrous hormones. Administration of either steroid alone was not as effective. During the dark phase of the light:dark cycle, the oscillatory behaviour of these neurons was enhanced more than five-fold than during the light phase, and coupling diameter was maximal on the night of behavioural estrus. The synchronized oscillatory discharge of neurons within the olive is a putative timing mechanism which may underlie hormone-associated facilitation of rapid limb movements. The results from the present study provide evidence that both hormonal and circadian factors can enhance olivary rhythmicity in association with behavioural rhythmicity.
This study was conducted to characterize patterns of discharge from the dorsal accessory olive during different behavioural states. To accomplish this goal, adult rats were chronically implanted with arrays of microwires (25-50 microns) to record from as many as 23 neurons from the dorsal accessory olive bilaterally during locomotor paradigms or at rest. Olivary neurons discharged sporadically at low firing frequencies (1-5 Hz) when the rat was at rest. However, during locomotor paradigms involving constant speed treadmill locomotion, olivary neurons discharged rhythmically at frequencies which closely matched step cycle frequencies. The rhythmic nature of olivary discharge was maintained even during brief periods of inconsistent gait. During treadmill locomotion utilizing variable acceleration/deceleration paradigms olivary neurons discharged at 3 Hz frequencies. Electrical stimulation of peripheral afferents resulted in rhythmic discharge of olivary neurons at frequencies harmonic with the rate of stimulation. These data suggest that oscillatory patterns of discharge exhibited by the inferior olivary nucleus are only seen during rhythmic behavioral tasks or stimulation paradigms. Further, the dissociation between the rhythmic nature of the task and the continued oscillation suggests that oscillatory activity of the inferior olive may be due both to an intrinsic rhythm as well as related to ongoing sensorimotor input.
The present study examined the properties of anterograde and retrograde transport in central axonal pathways maintained in vitro. The commonly-used tracers biocytin, dextran rhodamine B, FluoroGold, True Blue or rhodamine latex microspheres were injected into the medial geniculate body or the inferior colliculus of the adult rat brain explant. Injection of biocytin into the inferior colliculus consistently resulted in extensive anterograde labelling of axonal trunks and terminals in the ipsilateral medial geniculate body and in the contralateral inferior colliculus. Labelled axons were obtained 2-3 h after the injection at a site 3-4 mm away from the injection site and could be found up to 1.5 mm below the explant surface. Despite massive anterograde labelling with biocytin, all the tracers applied in the gray or white matter failed to show retrograde transport. These results suggest that axonal transport can occur in an anterograde-selective fashion in adult brain explants in vitro.
This study evaluated and compared the role of mesoaccumbens dopamine and the ventral pallidal region in the locomotor stimulatory action of the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist dizocilpine maleate and dopamine agonists. Intra-accumbens injections of both amphetamine (1, 5 and 25 nmol) and dizocilpine maleate (1, 5, 25 and 50 nmol) induced a dose-dependent increase in locomotor activity. The N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist was somewhat less effective than amphetamine. 6-Hydroxydopamine dopamine-depleting lesions of the nucleus accumbens completely blocked locomotor stimulation induced by focal administrations of amphetamine (5 nmol), but were ineffective in altering the actions of dizocilpine maleate (50 nmol). Ibotenic acid lesions of the ventral pallidal region and muscimol injections into this area also prevented the stimulatory effects of systemic amphetamine (1 mg/kg), while having no effect on the locomotor-activating actions of systemic dizocilpine maleate (0.3 mg/kg). Microdialysis studies revealed that systemically administered apomorphine (2 mg/kg) significantly decreased extracellular GABA in the pallidum, which was accompanied by substantial increases in locomotor output. Systemically administered dizocilpine maleate (0.3 mg/kg), on the other hand, also increased locomotor activity without having any effect on pallidal GABA. These data, taken together, indicate that while the locomotor effects of dopamine agonists are dependent upon intact mesoaccumbens dopamine and involve GABAergic efferents from the nucleus accumbens to the ventral pallidum, dizocilpine maleate's stimulatory actions are independent of such mechanisms.
Basic fibroblast growth factor and interleukin-1 beta are known to regulate the expression of other trophic factors and to stimulate reactive gliosis in vivo. S100 beta is a glial-specific putative neurotrophic factor and has been considered a marker of the reactive status of astrocytes. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that basic fibroblast growth factor-2 and interleukin-1 beta achieve their effects by altering S100 beta gene expression in cultured rat astrocytes using an RNase protection assay. Short-term treatment with basic fibroblast growth factor-2 produced a transient decrease in S100 beta messenger RNA which was followed by an increase after longer term treatment. In contrast, both short- and long-term treatment with interleukin-1 beta suppressed S100 beta messenger RNA. We measured levels of S100 beta nuclear primary transcript to assess whether alterations in transcriptional rate explain the changes in messenger RNA. Our results indicate that changes in transcription account for changes in steady state levels of messenger RNA since basic fibroblast growth factor-2-induced changes in S100 beta primary transcript temporally preceded changes in messenger RNA. We further measured intracellular S100 beta protein levels by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to determine whether changes in gene expression were translated into parallel changes in protein. Our results clearly demonstrate that basic fibroblast growth factor-2 and interleukin-1 beta influence the expression of the S100 beta gene, that this regulation appears to occur at the level of transcription, and that alterations in messenger RNA are sometimes, but not always, reflected in changes at the level of protein. These observations suggest that basic fibroblast growth factor-2 may amplify its trophic effects, in part, by influencing the expression of another trophic factor.
Electron probe X-ray microanalysis was used to measure water content and concentrations of elements (i.e. Na, K, Cl and Ca) in selected morphological compartments of rat optic nerve myelinated axons. Transaxolemmal movements of Na+ and Ca2+ were modified experimentally and corresponding effects on axon element and water compositions were determined under control conditions and following in vitro anoxic challenge. Also characterized were effects of modified ion transport on axon responses to postanoxia reoxygenation. Blockade of Na+ entry by tetrodotoxin (1 microM) or zero Na+/Li(+)-substituted perfusion reduced anoxic increases in axonal Na and Ca concentrations. Incubation with zero-Ca2+/EGTA perfusate prevented axoplasmic and mitochondrial Ca accumulation during anoxia but did not affect Na increases or K losses in these compartments. Inhibition of Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange with bepridil (30 microM) selectively prevented increases in intra-axonal Ca, whereas neither nifedipine (5 microM) nor nimodipine (5 microM) influenced the effects of anoxia on axonal Na, K or Ca. X-ray microanalysis also showed that prevention of Na and Ca influx during anoxia obtunded severe elemental deregulation normally associated with reoxygenation. Results of the present study suggest that during anoxia, Na+ enters axons mainly through voltage-gated Na+ channels and that subsequent increases in axoplasmic Na+ are functionally coupled to extra-axonal Ca2+ import. Na+i-dependent, Ca2+o entry is consistent with reverse operation of the axolemmal Na(+)-Ca2+ exchanger and we suggest this route represents a primary mechanism of Ca2+ influx. Our findings also implicate a minor route of Ca2+ entry directly through Na+ channels.
The VGF gene encodes a neuronal secretory-peptide precursor that is rapidly induced by neurotrophic growth factors and by depolarization in vitro. VGF expression in the animal peaks during critical periods in the developing peripheral and central nervous systems. To gain insight into the possible functions and regulation of VGF in vivo, we have used in situ hybridization to examine the regulation of VGF messenger RNA by experimental manipulations, and have found it to be regulated in the CNS by paradigms that affect electrical activity and by lesion. Inhibition of retinal electrical activity during the critical period of visual development rapidly repressed VGF messenger RNA in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus. In the adult, kainate-induced seizures transiently induced VGF messenger RNA in neurons of the dentate gyrus, hippocampus, and cerebral cortex within hours. Cortical lesion strongly induced VGF messenger RNA in ipsilateral cortex within hours, and strongly repressed expression in ipsilateral striatum. Ten days postlesion there was a delayed induction of VGF messenger RNA in a portion of deafferented striatum where compensatory cortical sprouting has been detected. Expression of the neuronal secretory-peptide precursor VGF is therefore modulated in vivo by monocular deprivation, seizure, and cortical lesion, paradigms which lead to neurotrophin induction, synaptic remodeling and axonal sprouting.
An area of the chick striatum, the lobus parolfactorius plays an important role in one-trial passive avoidance learning tasks. In the present study we report evidence that 5-6 h post-training, a significantly higher proportion of synaptic active zones in this area contain labelled epitopes of the neural cell adhesion molecule, with the greatest occurrence of labels at the edges of active zone profiles (in both control and trained groups). This suggests that there is a period after training when expression of the neural cell adhesion molecule in synaptic membranes almost doubles, and that events at active zone edges may play a specific role in mechanisms of synaptic adhesion. Cellular mechanisms of long-term memory formation are believed to include alterations in neural circuitry at the synaptic level. The involvement of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) in functional synaptic modifications has been demonstrated using a number of physiological models. Performance of rats in the Morris water maze, a spatial learning paradigm which requires the hippocampus, is impaired by either intraventricular injection of NCAM antibodies, or injection into the hippocampus of an enzyme which increases homophilic adhesion of the molecule, due to the removal of polysialic acid residuals from extracellular NCAM domains. In addition, intraventricular injections of anti-NCAM antibodies 6-8 h post-training were shown to impair memory for a one-trial passive avoidance task in the rat. An avoidance training model in the one-day-old chick indicates a similar time window, 5-6 h post-training during which memory for the task can be impaired by intraventricular injection of NCAM antibodies. In the hyperstriatum ventrale, a chick forebrain area involved in the passive avoidance task. subtle changes in the distribution pattern, but not density of NCAM molecules in synaptic membranes were revealed 5-6 h post-training. However, on the basis of studies of synaptic morphometry, a region of striatum, the lobus parolfactorius (LPO), appears to play a more important role in longer term memory storage for the task.
This study examined the mechanism through which nitric oxide inhibits the release of acetylcholine and excitatory motor neurotransmission in the guinea-pig ileum. The selective inhibitor of nitric oxide-sensitive guanylyl cyclase, 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ), concentration-dependently enhanced both basal release (-log EC50: 6.8) and electrically (10 Hz)-evoked release (-log EC50: 6.0) of [3H]acetylcholine from longitudinal muscle-myenteric plexus preparations preincubated with [3H]choline. The increase by ODQ of basal release appeared to be exocytotic since it was prevented by tetrodotoxin (300 nM) and absence of calcium from the superfusion medium. In addition, ODQ (1 microM) increased the electrically-evoked tachykininergic and cholinergic muscle contractions as measured in the presence of scopolamine (100 nM) or of the neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist CP 99994 (100 nM), respectively. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-N(G)-nitro-arginine (100 microM) behaved similar to ODQ and increased cholinergic and tachykininergic motor neurotransmission. The nitric oxide-independent activator of soluble guanylyl cyclase, 3-(5'-hydroxymethyl-2'-furyl)-1-benzyl indazole, concentration-dependently inhibited the electrically evoked acetylcholine release (-log EC50: 6.0) and longitudinal muscle contractions (-log EC50: 5.7). ODQ (10 microM) antagonized the effects of 3-(5'-hydroxymethyl-2'-furyl)-1-benzyl indazole. The results suggest that endogenous nitric oxide tonically activates soluble guanylyl cyclase in myenteric neurons which leads to inhibition of the release of the excitatory transmitters acetylcholine and substance P. ODQ prevents the effects of nitric oxide and thus facilitates cholinergic and tachykininergic motor neurotransmission in the guinea-pig ileum.
We have recently shown that the cytoplasmic tail of the rat mu-opioid receptor undergoes alternative splicing giving rise to two isoforms, rMOR1 and rMOR1B. These isoforms exhibit similar pharmacological profiles, however, differ in agonist-induced desensitization of coupling to adenylate cyclase. In the present study, we have raised polyclonal antibodies that specifically detect either rMOR1 or rMOR1B and used these antisera for immunocytochemical localization of the receptor proteins in the rat central nervous system. Prominent MOR1B-like immunoreactivity was found in the external plexiform layer of the main olfactory bulb localized to a dense plexus of dendrites mostly originating from mitral cells and extending into the glomerular layer. MOR1-like immunoreactivity was restricted to the perikarya of mitral cells and to distinct juxtaglomerular cells as well as their processes. While MOR1-, DOR1- and KOR1-like immunoreactivity was absent from the external plexiform layer, high densities of opioid peptides were found in this layer suggesting that MOR1B may be a targeted receptor of these peptides. MOR1-like immunoreactivity was observed in many pain-controlling brain areas including the spinal cord dorsal horn, sensory trigeminal complex, raphe nuclei and periaqueductal gray while MOR1B-like immunoreactivity was not detectable in these regions. Taken together, we provide evidence that the mu receptor isoforms, MOR1 and MOR1B, exhibit a strikingly different distribution in that MOR1 appears to be the major isoform widely distributed throughout the central nervous system and MOR1B being predominantly localized to the olfactory bulb.
There is abundant evidence that opioid receptors are present on peripheral terminals of primary afferent neurons. Experimental and clinical studies have shown that activation of these peripheral opioid receptors produces potent analgesia. In addition to peripheral opioid receptors, cholecystokinin receptors are present in sensory neurons. We examined the hypothesis that cholecystokinin receptors may be present on the same primary afferent neuron and that either exogenous or endogenous cholecystokinin may modulate peripheral antinociceptive effects of mu-opioid receptor agonists. Administration of cholecystokinin into inflamed paws, of the rat, but not intravenously attenuated peripheral antinociceptive effects induced by two mu-opioid receptor agonists, [D-Ala2,N-methyl-Phe4,Gly-ol5]-enkephalin and fentanyl. Only the desulphated form of cholecystokinin produced significant and dose-dependent attenuation. Cholecystokinin alone did not alter nociceptive baseline values in inflamed or non-inflamed paws. The anti-opioid effect of cholecystokinin was dose-dependently antagonized by the cholecystokininB receptor-selective antagonist L-365260, but not by the cholecystokininA receptor-selective antagonist L-364718. Local pretreatment with the protein kinase C specific inhibitor calphostin C abolished cholecystokinin's effect. Peripheral antinociceptive effects of [D-Ala2,N-methyl-Phe4,Gly-ol5]-enkephalin and fentanyl were not altered by intraplantar L-365260 alone. These results indicate that activation of peripheral cholecystokininB but not cholecystokininA receptors attenuates the local antinociceptive effects of mu-opioid receptor agonists in inflamed tissue. This anti-opioid effect may be mediated by protein kinase C in sensory nerve terminals. Endogenous cholecystokinin does not seem to influence the efficacy of peripheral opioids under both normal and inflammatory conditions.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors are thought to play a role in the development and maintenance of spinal hyperexcitability resulting in hyperalgesia and pain. In this study we have used in situ hybridization to investigate the distribution of metabotropic glutamate receptors mGluR1-7 messenger RNA in the rat spinal cord in a model of inflammatory hyperalgesia. Hyperalgesia was induced in nine-day-old rats by exposure of the left hindpaw to an ultraviolet light source. Lumbar portions of spinal cords were removed from control and ultraviolet-treated animals. In situ hybridization with specific oligonucleotide probes was used to localize metabotropic glutamate receptor messenger RNAs. mGluR1, 3-5 and 7 subtype messenger RNA was detected in the gray matter of the spinal cord with distribution being specific for the different subtypes. A significant increase in the expression of mGluR3 messenger RNA was seen in cells of the dorsal laminae in both sides of the lumbar spinal cord. This increase was most pronounced in laminae II, III and IV but gradually decreased and disappeared by the third day of inflammation. In parallel with this, behavioural experiments revealed mechanical hyperalgesia in both hindlimbs after ultraviolet irradiation. There was no change in mGluR3 messenger RNA expression in the thoracic segments. No changes have been detected in the levels of expression of mGluR 1,2,4,5,7 subtype messenger RNA in spinal cords taken from hyperalgesic animals. These observations show that during ultraviolet irradiation induced inflammation, the synthesis of mGluR3 messenger RNA is altered suggesting that regulation of metabotropic glutamate receptor expression may be instrumental in plastic changes within the spinal cord during the development of hyperalgesia and pain.
Chronic polyarthritis due to complete Freund's adjuvant injection is characterized by severe inflammation and pain. In the present immunocytochemical and in situ hybridization study on the rat, we quantitatively investigated peptide and peptide messenger RNA expression in the sensory circuit at the spinal level, i.e. sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia and in nerve endings and local neurons in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. The immunocytochemical experiments were carried out five, 13 and 21 days after complete Freund's adjuvant injection, whereas in situ hybridization study was performed after 21 days from complete Freund's adjuvant injection. The main results in the present study are the following: (i) a decrease in substance P-, calcitonin gene-related peptide- and galanin-like immunoreactivities in dorsal root ganglia is observed five days after complete Freund's adjuvant injection, with recovery (calcitonin gene-related peptide and galanin) or even an increase (substance P) after 21 days; (ii) calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P and galanin peptide levels are increased in dorsal root ganglia after 21 days; (iii) opioid peptide (enkephalin and dynorphin), substance P and galanin messenger RNAs are strongly up-regulated in dorsal horn neurons after 21 days; (iv) neuropeptide Y content increases in dorsal root fibres and neuropeptide Y messenger RNA levels decrease in spinal neurons after 21 days; and (v) a dramatic decrease in calcitonin gene-related peptide and cholecystokinin messenger RNA levels is found in motoneurons in the ventral horn after 21 days. These data indicate that peptide expression in dorsal root ganglia and the spinal cord is markedly influenced by severe inflammation with distinct and individual temporal patterns, which are also related to the severe rearrangement of joint structure during polyarthritis. The increase in galanin levels in dorsal root ganglia 21 days after complete Freund's adjuvant injection can be related to the structural damage of nerve fibres. Thus, there may be a transition from inflammatory to neuropathic pain, which could have consequences for treatment of patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
Central reorganization is known to occur in chronic pain models resulting from peripheral injury. Systematic analysis of anatomical and behavioural changes and a comparison of these changes between different models over an extended time course has not been reported. We address this issue by quantifying alterations in markers known to be associated with central reorganization in three models of peripheral injury: complete Freund's adjuvant induced inflammation of the hindpaw, chronic constriction of the sciatic nerve, and tight ligation of the sciatic nerve. Hyperalgesic behaviour to thermal and mechanical stimuli was quantified at four, seven, 14, 28 days post-injury. Distribution and immunodensity changes of the mu-opioid receptor, the neurokinin-1 receptor, and brain nitric oxide synthase distribution were assessed in the superficial dorsal horn, laminae I-II, of the lumbar spinal cord of the rat. Reorganization and behavioural changes were quantified as a per cent change (ipsilateral versus contralateral) and examined together over the duration of the experiment. Chronic constriction injury and inflammation both produced hyperalgesic behaviour in the hindpaw ipsilateral to injury. Decreases in thermal and mechanical withdrawal latencies were maximal at day 4. Complete Freund's adjuvant-treated animals displayed a 25.5%+/-3.8% decline in thermal withdrawal latency and 84.1%+/-8.0% decline in mechanical withdrawal latency. Chronic constriction of the sciatic nerve resulted in an decrease in thermal and mechanical withdrawal latencies, 27.9%+/-3.3%, 90.5%+/-4.4%, respectively. Tight ligation of the sciatic nerve resulted in early increases in the latency of withdrawal that were maximal at seven days 40.7%+/-8.4% for thermal stimulus and at four days 417%+/-5.8% for mechanical stimulus, consistent with deafferentation. The greatest changes in immunolabelling were always found at L4-L5 spinal level, corresponding to the entry zone of sciatic afferents. Mu-opioid receptor immunodensities increased in the dorsal horn ipsilateral to the treated side up to a maximum of 38.3%+/-5.6% at day 7 with inflammation and up to 26.3%+/-3.2%, at day 14 with chronic constriction injury. Mu-opioid receptor immunodensities decreased maximally by 20.0%+/-2.1% at day 4 in the tight ligature model. Significant differences in mu-opioid receptor immunolabelling persisted at day 28 for neuropathic models, at which time there was an absence of significant hyperalgesic behaviour in any group. The number of brain nitric oxide synthase-positive cells decreased at seven days by a maximum of 45.3%+/-5.1% and 59.0%+/-5.2%, respectively, in animals with chronic constriction injury or tight ligature. This decline in immunolabelled brain nitric oxide synthase cells in the dorsal horn ipsilateral to injury persisted at day 28. No significant alteration in brain nitric oxide synthase immunolabelling was found in association with inflammation of the hindpaw. Inducible nitric oxide synthase was not detected in the dorsal horn at any time during the experiment in either tissue of treated or control rats. Neurokinin-1 receptor immunodensity consistently increased ipsilateral to injury irrespective of the type of injury, and, of the three markers, paralleled behaviour most closely. Changes were maximal for inflammation at four days (75.2%+/-9.3%), for chronic constriction injury at four days (85.1%+/-14.6%) and for tight ligature at 14 days (85.7%+/-11.4%). Comparison of behavioural and anatomical data demonstrates that the peak hyperalgesia is concomitant with the greatest increase in neurokinin-1 receptor immunodensity ipsilateral to the injury. The increase in mu-opioid receptor immunodensity parallels behaviour but with a delayed time course, peaking as hyperalgesia abates, except in the case of tight ligature animals where the decrease in immunolabelling appears permanent. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
The effects of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor on axonal outgrowth and apoptosis were studied in vitro using explanted dorsal root ganglia-peripheral nerve preparations of adult mice. In gels of matrigel or collagen type 1, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor increased both the numbers and lengths of axons growing out of explanted preparations, although less effectively than nerve growth factor. Stimulation of axonal outgrowth by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor was unaffected by K252a, a protein kinase inhibitor which blocks the effects of nerve growth factor and other neurotrophins acting through trk receptors. To determine the phenotype of the axons responding to glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, preparations were stained using antibodies to trkA, calcitonin gene-related peptide, 200,000 mol. wt phosphorylated neurofilaments (monoclonal antibody RT97) and the lectin Bandeiraea simplicifolia 1B4. RT97 recognizes large diameter neurons whilst 1B4 labels small diameter neurons which broadly do not express neurotrophin receptors. In preparations cultured with glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, significant increases in the numbers of outgrowing axons labelled with RT97 and 1B4 were observed but the numbers of calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive axons were not significantly increased and their staining intensity was generally faint. In separate preparations it was found that in the presence of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, the majority of the 1B4 labelled axons were trkA negative, indicating that this factor can stimulate axonal growth in this population of neurons which do not respond to the neurotrophins. Spontaneous apoptosis in neurons and satellite cells occurs in explanted preparations of the type used in the present investigations, but in cryostat sections of preparations cultured in the presence of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, the incidence of apoptosis was lower than in control preparations which had been cultured in the absence of this factor. This suggests that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor may promote survival of some adult sensory neurons in vitro.
In this study we examined the distribution and developmental profile of the src homology 2 (SH2) domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP-2 in the mouse brain. We found that SHP-2 is present in both mitotically active and postmitotic cells in the forebrains of embryonic day 12 (E12) mice. In a developmental study extending from embryonic day 12 to adulthood, Western blotting analysis demonstrated equivalent levels of SHP-2 protein at all of the ages examined. Expression of SHP-2 paralleled the level of enzymatic activity at the different developmental periods. In the adult brain SHP-2 was restricted to diverse classes of neurons, while the majority of glial cells did not express detectable levels of protein. However, reactive astrocytes in response to an ischemic brain injury showed SHP-2 immunolabelling. Our data suggest that SHP-2 may play a role in pathways of neuronal and glial progenitor cells, in a broad spectrum of neuronal responses in the adult brain and in the gliotic response to the injury.
Vulnerability to develop drug abuse could be related to differential sensitivity to some central effects of such drugs. Several results point to mesoaccumbens dopamine release elicited by psychostimulants as the rate-limiting factor of their reinforcing, hence addictive, effects and to locomotor stimulation as an indirect index of such a response. In this paper, we report parallel differences in sensitivity to amphetamine-induced locomotor stimulation and mesoaccumbens dopamine release in two inbred strains of mice characterized by differential susceptibility to develop drug self-administration. Thus, mice of the C57BL/6 strain responded with a simultaneous increase of locomotor activity and mesoaccumbens dopamine release measured by intracerebral microdialysis to amphetamine challenge. On the contrary, mice of the DBA/2 strain did not present either response. No strain differences in mesoaccumbens dopamine outflow or 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentration were found in basal conditions or following saline challenges. However, mice of the C57BL/6 strain were characterized by higher levels of accumbal homovanillic acid in basal conditions, in line with the results obtained in rats rendered more sensitive to the locomotor effects of psychostimulants by repeated administration. Finally, in both strains amphetamine decreased accumbal levels of the two metabolites. These results suggest that genotype modulates the locomotor effects of amphetamine through sensitivity of the mesoaccumbens system to amphetamine-stimulated dopamine release. Moreover, they provide a basis to test the hypothesis of mesoaccumbens dopamine involvement in individual susceptibility to the addictive effects of drugs by quantitative trait loci analysis in recombinant inbred strains.
The release of endogenous ATP, measured by the luciferin-luciferase assay, and of [3H]noradrenaline from the in vitro superfused rat hypothalamic slices were studied. ATP and [3H]noradrenaline were released simultaneously during resting conditions and in response to low and high frequency field electrical stimulation; the release of both substances were frequency dependent between 2 Hz and 16 Hz. The stimulation-induced release of ATP and [3H]noradrenaline was diminished by more than 80% under Ca2+-free conditions. Tetrodotoxin inhibited the majority of the evoked release of both ATP and [3H]noradrenaline, however, it was less effective in reducing the release of [3H]noradrenaline, than that of ATP. Bilateral stereotaxic injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (4 microg/side) to the ventral part of the ventral noradrenergic bundle, originating from the A1 cell group in the brainstem, resulted in a 55% reduction of endogenous noradrenaline content of the hypothalamic slices, and the tritium uptake and the stimulation-evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline was also markedly reduced. While the basal release of ATP was not affected, the evoked release was diminished by 72% by this treatment. Perfusion of the slices with noradrenaline (100 microM) initiated rapid and continuous tritium release; on the other hand, it did not release any ATP. In contrast, 6 min perfusion of (-)nicotine and 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenyl-piperazinium iodide evoked parallel release of ATP and [3H]noradrenaline which was inhibited by the nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine; 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the ventral part of the ventral noradrenergic bundle did not affect the nicotine-evoked ATP and [3H]noradrenaline release. While CH 38083, a non subtype-selective alpha2-antagonist and BRL44408, the subtype-selective alpha2AD antagonist augmented the evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline, ARC239, a selective alpha2BC antagonist was without effect. In contrast, neither of the alpha2-antagonists significantly affected the evoked-release of ATP. In summary, we report here that endogenous ATP and [3H]noradrenaline are co-released stimulation-dependently from superfused rat hypothalamic slices. A significant part of the release of both compounds is derived from the nerve terminals, originating from the A1 catecholaminergic cell group of brainstem nuclei. Unlike that from the peripheral sympathetic transmission, noradrenaline and alpha1-adrenoceptor agonists were unable to promote the release of ATP. Conversely, parallel ATP and noradrenaline release could be induced by nicotine receptor activation, but this release does not originate from the same nerve endings. The evoked-release of [3H]noradrenaline is inhibited by endogenous noradrenaline via alpha2AD subtype of adrenoreceptors, while the release of ATP is not subject to this autoinhibitory modulation. In conclusion, our results support the view that ATP is involved in the neurotransmission in the hypothalamus, but the sources of the released ATP and noradrenaline seem to be not identical under different stimulatory and modulatory conditions.
The cochleo- and tonotopic organization of the second auditory area (AII) was investigated in cats anaesthetized with pentobarbital using a combination of macro- and microelectrode recording technique. The results obtained following electrical stimulation of the neural fibres innervating different regions of the organ of Corti indicate the existence of two complete representations of the cochlea in area AII: one in the dorsocaudal portion, the other in its ventrorostral portion. These two cortical representations of the cochlea differ in size and spatial orientation. The dorsocaudal projection area extends over a distance of 2.6-3.2 mm from the basal to the apical focus and is arc-shaped. The spatial orientation of cochlea representation within the dorsocaudal region of AII is similar to that described in AI, in that stimulation of the cochlea base results in maximal responses in the more rostral portion of AII and stimulation of the apex evokes cortical responses more caudally. The ventrorostral region within AII is smaller (1.4-2.5 mm length), and has the opposite cochleotopic orientation (base and apex stimulation represented caudally and rostrally, respectively). In both AII zones, there was a proportionally greater cortical representation of basilar membrane than of middle and apical portions. Although two distinct zones with the overall cochleotopic pattern described above were noted in all cats, their precise size and location considerably varied in different animals. Using microelectrode recordings, a cortical tonotopic organization can be observed that was consistent with and expanded on the earlier cochleotopic data. Within the dorsocaudal region of AII, neurons with higher best frequency responses were located in more rostral regions, while those with lower best frequencies were located caudally. An orderly progression of best frequency responses was noted as serial recordings carried out along the full extent of the representation. Neurons within the ventrorostral region of AII also displayed an orderly progression of best frequencies, but in the opposite direction, with higher best frequencies noted more caudally and lower best frequencies more rostrally.
The localization and expression of ionotropic non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors (GluR) were investigated in the developing and adult rat cerebellum using subunit-specific polyclonal antibodies for immunocytochemical, immunoblot and immunoprecipitation studies. In P7 animals, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor immunoreactivity was detected in all layers of the cerebellar cortex with the exception of the external granule cell layer. Antibodies against the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR4 gave strong immunoreactive staining of Bergmann glia in both young and adult animals, and both antibodies showed prominent staining of the molecular layer in the adult cerebellum. Dense immunoreactive staining of Purkinje cell somata and dendrites was obtained with anti-GluR2/3/4c in both the developing and adult cerebellum. Whereas each of the three alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor antibodies stained the internal, but not the external, granule cell layer, immunostaining for the kainate-type subunits GluR6/7 and KA2 was detected in both the external and internal granule cell layers. as well as in the molecular layer in both P7 and adult cerebellum. Immunoblot analysis of total cerebellar protein indicated that the level of GluR4 expression increased 15-fold from P1 to P18, whereas the expression of the KA2 subunit protein was nine-fold lower in adult cerebellum than it was at P1. The expression of GluR1 increased moderately (two-fold) from P1 to adult. Subunit interactions between GluR1 and GluR4, as well as between GluR6/7 and KA2, were demonstrated in immunoprecipitation experiments; and the GluR4 and KA2 subunits appear to be present exclusively in heteromeric assemblies with GluR1 and GluR6/7, respectively. The results show that the various alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate- and kainate-type subunits are differentially expressed during cerebellar development and further define the possible subunit composition of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the major cerebellar cell types.
The similar pharmacology of the 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors, and the lack of selective compounds sufficiently distinguishing between the two receptor subtypes, have hampered functional studies on these receptors. In order to provide clues for differential functional roles of the two subtypes, we performed a parallel localization study throughout the guinea-pig brain and the trigeminal ganglia by means of quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry (using [35S]-labelled riboprobes probes for receptor messenger RNA) and receptor autoradiography (using a new radioligand [3H]alniditan). The anatomical patterns of 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptor messenger RNA were quite different. While 5-HT1B receptor messenger RNA was abundant throughout the brain (with highest levels in the striatum, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle, cortex, hypothalamus, hippocampal formation, amygdala, thalamus, dorsal raphe and cerebellum), 5-HT1D receptor messenger RNA exhibited a more restricted pattern; it was found mainly in the olfactory tubercle, entorhinal cortex, dorsal raphe, cerebellum, mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus and in the trigeminal ganglion. The density of 5-HT(1B/1D) binding sites (combined) obtained with [3H]alniditan autoradiography was high in the substantia nigra, superior colliculus and globus pallidus, whereas lower levels were detected in the caudate-putamen, hypothalamus, hippocampal formation, amygdala, thalamus and central gray. This distribution pattern was indistinguishable from specific 5-HT1B receptor labelling in the presence of ketanserin under conditions to occlude 5-HT1D receptor labelling; hence the latter were below detection level. Relationships between the regional distributions of the receptor messenger RNAs and binding sites and particular neuroanatomical pathways are discussed with respect to possible functional roles of the 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors.
The dorsal raphe nucleus through its extensive efferents has been implicated in a great variety of physiological and behavioural functions. However, little is know about its afferents. Therefore, to identify the systems likely to influence the activity of serotonergic neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus, we re-examined the forebrain afferents to the dorsal raphe nucleus using cholera toxin b subunit and Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin as retrograde or anterograde tracers. With small cholera toxin b subunit injection sites, we further determined the specific afferents to the ventral and dorsal parts of the central dorsal raphe nucleus, the rostral dorsal raphe nucleus and the lateral wings. In agreement with previous studies, we observed a large number of retrogradely-labelled cells in the lateral habenula following injections in all subdivisions of the dorsal raphe nucleus. In addition, depending on the subdivision of the dorsal raphe nucleus injected, we observed a small to large number of retrogradely-labelled cells in the orbital, cingulate, infralimbic, dorsal peduncular, and insular cortice, a moderate or substantial number in the ventral pallidum and a small to substantial number in the claustrum. In addition, we observed a substantial to large number of cells in the medial and lateral preoptic areas and the medial preoptic nucleus after cholera toxin b subunit injections in the dorsal raphe nucleus excepting for those located in the ventral part of the central dorsal raphe nucleus, after which we found a moderate number of retrogradely-labelled cells. Following cholera toxin b subunit injections in the dorsal part of the central dorsal raphe nucleus, a large number of retrogradely-labelled cells was seen in the lateral, ventral and medial parts of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis whereas only a small to moderate number was visualized after injections in the other dorsal raphe nucleus subdivisions. In addition, respectively, a substantial and a moderate number of retrogradely-labelled cells was distributed in the zona incerta and the subincertal nucleus following all tracer injections in the dorsal raphe nucleus. A large number of retrogradely-labelled cells was also visualized in the lateral, dorsal and posterior hypothalamic areas and the perifornical nucleus after cholera toxin b subunit injections in the dorsal part of the central raphe nucleus and to a lesser extent following injections in the other subdivisions. We further observed a substantial to large number of retrogradely-labelled cells in the tuber cinereum and the medial tuberal nucleus following cholera toxin b subunit injections in the dorsal part of the central dorsal raphe nucleus or the lateral wings and a small to moderate number after injections in the two other dorsal raphe nucleus subdivisions. A moderate or substantial number of labelled cells was also seen in the ventromedial hypothalamic area and the arcuate nucleus following cholera toxin injections in the dorsal part of the central dorsal raphe nucleus and the lateral wings and an occasional or small number with injection sites located in the other subdivisions. Finally, we observed, respectively, a moderate and a substantial number of retrogradely-labelled cells in the central nucleus of the amygdala following tracer injections in the ventral or dorsal parts of the central dorsal raphe nucleus and a small number after injections in the other subnuclei. In agreement with these retrograde data, we visualized anterogradely-labelled fibres heterogeneously distributed in the dorsal raphe nucleus following Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin injections in the lateral orbital or infralimbic cortice, the lateral preoptic area, the perifornical nucleus, the lateral or posterior hypothalamic areas, the zona incerta, the subincertal nucleus or the medial tuberal nucleus. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
Whole-cell patch recordings were made from rostral ventrolateral medulla neurons of two in vitro preparations: (i) brainstem spinal cords of two- to five-day-old rats, and (ii) coronal brainstem slices of eight- to 12-day-old rats, and the inhibitory synaptic activities in these neurons have been studied. In brainstem spinal cord preparations, Lucifer Yellow was diffused into the recording neurons at the end of experiments. Medullary neurons were characterized as: (i) spinally projecting by the appearance of an antidromic spike following electrical stimulation of the spinal tract between T2 and T3 segments, and (ii) adrenergic by the detection of phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase immunoreactivity in Lucifer Yellow-filled neurons. Of the 13 spinally projecting and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-positive medullary neurons, focal stimulation elicited in the presence of glutamate receptor antagonists an inhibitory postsynaptic potential in nine neurons. Inhibitory synaptic potentials were reversibly eliminated by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (10-20 microM) in six of nine neurons, by the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine (0.1-1 microM) in two and by a combination of bicuculline and strychnine in one neuron. In brainstem slice preparations, focal stimulation elicited three types of synaptic potential: (i) an excitatory postsynaptic potential, (ii) an inhibitory postsynaptic potential and (iii) a biphasic synaptic potential consisting of an excitatory synaptic potential followed by an inhibitory synaptic potential. Inhibitory synaptic potentials had a reversal potential between -70 and -80 mV, reversed their polarity in a low (6.7 mM) Cl- Krebs' solution, and suppressed or blocked by either bicuculline or strychnine or both. Elimination of inhibitory synaptic potentials unmasked in some cells an excitatory synaptic potential or enhanced the excitatory synaptic potential component in medullary neurons with a biphasic response, indicating a marked convergence of excitatory and inhibitory inputs onto a single neuron. A population of medullary neurons appeared to be pacemaker neurons whereby they discharged spontaneously. When discharges were suppressed by membrane hyperpolarization, focal stimulation elicited inhibitory synaptic potentials in 8/23 neurons tested. Our results suggest that inhibitory synaptic potentials in medullary neurons are mediated by either GABA and/or glycine which open primarily Cl- channels. The prevalence of inhibitory synaptic potentials in medullary neurons indicates an essential role of inhibitory transmission in controlling the input and output ratio of these neurons.
Cultured neocortical neurons respond rapidly to oxygen deprivation. Within minutes they demonstrate an increase in intracellular calcium and pronounced changes in their morphology. These changes include swelling, bleb formations, process retraction and a change in shape of the soma from pyramidal or ellipsoidal to round. Since the cytoskeleton is responsible for the maintenance of cell shape, we investigated the changes in state of a major component of the neuronal cytoskeleton, the actin filaments. Actin exists in a dynamic equilibrium between the monomeric and filamentous states. This equilibrium is dependent, in part, upon intracellular ATP, which is reduced during anoxia. We differentially labelled monomeric actin with Texas Red-tagged DNase-1 and the polymeric form with Bodipy-phallicidin. Using confocal microscopy and image reconstruction, we have found that the ratio of filamentous to monomeric actin increases on average three-fold following 10 min of anoxia. In addition, filamentous actin redistributes within the soma and appears to have a more homogeneous distribution than in normoxic neurons. Our results show that, in cultured neocortical neurons, actin filaments are modulated by anoxia. We believe that, although the filamentous/monomeric ratio is modulated, at least in part, by the levels of ATP and ADP, the relative distribution and amount of the filamentous to monomeric form within neurons are likely regulated by other factors such as calcium-sensitive actin-binding and severing proteins.
In order to study structural alterations which occur after a defined unilateral cortical infarct, the hindlimb region of the rat cortex was photochemically lesioned. The infarcts caused edema restricted to the perilesional cortex which affected allocortical and isocortical areas differently. Postlesional changes in cytoskeletal marker proteins such as microtubule-associated protein 2, non-phosphorylated (SMI32) and phosphorylated (SMI35, SMI31 and 200,000 mol. wt) neurofilaments and 146,000 mol. wt glycoprotein Py as well as changes in proteoglycans visualized with Wisteria floribunda lectin binding (WFA) were studied at various time points and related to glial scar formation. The results obtained by the combination of these markers revealed six distinct regions in which transient, epitope-specific changes occurred: the core, demarcation zone, rim, perilesional cortex, ipsilateral thalamus and contralateral homotopic cortical area. Within the core immunoreactivity for microtubule-associated protein 2 and SMI32 decreased and the cellular components showed structural disintegration 4 h post lesion, but partial recovery of somatodendritic staining was seen after 24 h. Microtubule-associated protein 2 and SMI32 persisted up to days 7 and 5 respectively in the core, whereas the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein- and WFA-positive cells decreased between days 7 and 14. The demarcation zone showed a dramatic loss of immunoreactivity for all epitopes 4 h post lesion which was not followed by a phase of recovery. In the inner region of the demarcation zone there was an invasion and accumulation of non-neuronal WFA-positive cells which formed a tight capsule around the core. Neuronal immunoreactivities for microtubule-associated protein 2, SMI31 and Py as well as astrocytic glial fibrillary acidic protein increased strongly within an approximately 0.4-1.0 mm-wide rim region directly bordering the demarcation zone. Py immunoreactivity increased significantly in the perilesional cortex, whereas glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes became transiently more numerous in the entire lesioned hemisphere including strongly enhanced immunoreactivity in the thalamus by days 5-7 post lesion. Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity increased in the corpus callosum and the homotopic cortical area of the unlesioned hemisphere by days 5-7. In this homotopic area additional changes in SMI31 immunoreactivity occurred. Our results showed that a cortical infarct is not only a locally restricted lesion, but leads to a variety of cytoskeletal and other structural changes in widely-distributed functionally-related areas of the brain.
Since ischemic insults lead to a deregulation of nitric oxide production which contributes to delayed neuronal death, we investigated changes in the distribution and amount of nitric oxide synthases I and II and in the appearance of nitrotyrosine caused by small, well-defined photothrombic lesions (2 mm in diameter) in the somatosensory cortex of rats. Four hours after lesioning, cell loss was evident in the core of the lesion and no nitric oxide synthase was present within this area, indicating that neurons expressing nitric oxide synthase I were lost or that nitric oxide synthase I was degraded. No increase in the number of neurons expressing nitric oxide synthase I was visible in the area surrounding the lesion, nor in other parts of the brain. One day after lesioning, NADPH-diaphorase- and nitric oxide synthase II-positive leucocytes had invaded the perilesional cortex and were accumulated in injured blood vessels. By two to three days post-lesion, layer V and VI pyramidal neurons, microglia, astrocytes and invading leucocytes had become strongly immunoreactive for nitric oxide synthase II within a perilesional rim. The number of cells expressing nitric oxide synthase I remained stable. Nitric oxide synthase II immunoreactivity and related NADPH-diaphorase had decreased by seven days post-lesion in most animals. However, the number of activated microglia or macrophages and astrocytes, as revealed by other markers, remained elevated. In addition, nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity was evident in the blood vessels close to the lesion, as well as in the ipsilateral hippocampus and thalamus. These findings indicate that no perilesional changes in the number of neurons expressing nitric oxide synthase I occur, but that a transient increase in nitric oxide synthase II does take place in the aftermath of small cortical lesions. The results suggest that increased nitric oxide production is limited to certain post-lesional intervals in this experimental model. It is also obvious that the vast majority of nitric oxide synthase-positive cells are nitric oxide synthase II-containing astrocytes three days after lesioning, suggesting that astrocyte-derived nitric oxide plays a significant role in delayed neuronal death. Such a condition points to an important aspect of post-lesional astrocytosis.
In previous studies m2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-immunoreactive interneurons and various types of m2-positive axon terminals have been described in the hippocampal formation. The aim of the present study was to identify the types of interneurons expressing m2 receptor and to examine whether the somadendritic and axonal m2 immunostaining labels the same or distinct cell populations. In the CA1 subfield, neurons immunoreactive for m2 have horizontal dendrites, they are located at the stratum oriens/alveus border and have an axon that project to the dendritic region of pyramidal cells. In the CA3 subfield and the hilus, m2-positive neurons are multipolar and are scattered in all layers except stratum lacunosum-moleculare. In stratum pyramidale of the CA1 and CA3 regions, striking axon terminal staining for m2 was observed, surrounding the somata and axon initial segments of pyramidal cells in a basket-like manner. The co-localization of m2 with neurochemical markers and GABA was studied using the &quot;mirror&quot; technique and fluorescent double-immunostaining at the light microscopic level and with double-labelling using colloidal gold-conjugated antisera and immunoperoxidase reaction (diaminobenzidine) at the electron microscopic level. GABA was shown to be present in the somata of most m2-immunoreactive interneurons, as well as in the majority of m2-positive terminals in all layers. The calcium-binding protein parvalbumin was absent from practically all m2-immunoreactive cell bodies and dendrites. In contrast, many of the terminals synapsing on pyramidal cell somata and axon initial segments co-localized parvalbumin and m2, suggesting a differential distribution of m2 receptor immunoreactivity on the axonal and somadendritic membrane of parvalbumin-containing basket and axo-axonic cells. The co-existence of m2 receptors with the calcium-binding protein calbindin and the neuropeptides cholecystokinin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide was rare throughout the hippocampal formation. Only calretinin and somatostatin showed an appreciable degree of co-localization with m2 (20% and 15%, respectively). Using retrograde tracing, some of the m2-positive cells in stratum oriens were shown to project to the medial septum, accouting for 38% of all projection neurons. The present results demonstrate that there is a differential distribution of m2 receptor immunoreactivity on the axonal vs the somadendritic membranes of distinct interneuron types and suggest that acetylcholine via m2 receptors may reduce GABA release presynaptically from the terminals of perisomatic inhibitory cells, while it may act to increase the activity of another class of interneuron, which innervates the dendritic region of pyramidal cells.
Adrenal steroids and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation have both been shown to regulate the rate of proliferation of granule neuron progenitor cells in the dentate gyrus of adult rats [Cameron H. A. and Gould E. (1994) Neuroscience 61, 203-209; Cameron H. A. et al. (1995) J. Neurosci. 15, 46874692]. Parallels between the actions of these two factors suggest that they may regulate cell division through a common pathway. This hypothesis was tested by altering both of the factors simultaneously and determining whether the effects were additive. The results of this study demonstrate that alterations in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation block the effects of corticosterone level on cell proliferation; N-methyl-D-aspartate blocks the adrenalectomy-induced increase in [3H]thymidine-labelled cell density in the dentate gyrus, whereas the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (MK-801) prevents the corticosterone-induced decrease in proliferating cells. This finding suggests that adrenal steroids and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation regulate granule cell production in the adult rat dentate gyrus through a common pathway and that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation operates downstream of corticosterone in this pathway.
We re-examined the proposed resistance of the immature brain to seizure-induced damage. In awake, freely moving rat pups, intermittent perforant path stimulation produced selective hippocampal cell loss and reduction in paired-pulse inhibition. During 16 h of stimulation, animals showed frequent wet dog shakes and hind-limb scratching movements but no convulsive motor activity. In situ end-labelling performed 2 h after the end of stimulation showed an intense band of positively-labelled eosinophilic cells with condensed profiles bilaterally in the dentate granule cell layer of stimulated animals. Control animals showed no in situ end-labelling positivity in the dentate gyrus. These cells were not observed 24 h later, suggestive of rapidly scavenged apoptotic cells. One day after the end of stimulation, many necrotic interneurons with eosinophilic cytoplasm and pyknotic nuclei were observed in the hilus of the stimulated dentate gyrus in all rats tested. Hippocampal pyramidal cells in CA1, CA3 and subiculum showed bilateral damage greater on the side of stimulation, and prepiriform cortex sustained bilateral symmetrical lesions. One month after perforant path stimulation, Cresyl Violet staining showed the number of large hilar interneurons (&gt;15 microm) was reduced on the stimulated side (54.1 +/- 12.2) compared to the non-stimulated side (100.5 +/- 10.2 cells, P&lt;0.01). Immunohistochemical analysis showed significant losses in somatostatin (8.5 +/- 1.6 stimulated side, 22.8 +/- 3.8 unstimulated side, P&lt;0.05) and neuropeptide Y (12.8 +/- 3.2 stimulated side, 17.0 +/- 4.1 unstimulated side, P&lt;0.05) immunoreactive cells in the stimulated hilus but no loss of parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells. Significant reductions in paired-pulse inhibition were found after stimulation but there was some return of inhibition by one month. These combined data demonstrate that the immature brain can incur damage as a result of prolonged seizure-like hippocampal activity mimicking status epilepticus in immature rats. The hippocampal damage produced by perforant path stimulation is associated with the immediate loss of physiological inhibition suggesting important modification of excitatory control in an extremely epileptogenic region of the brain.
Neuronal spike trains from both single and multi-unit recordings often contain patterns such as doublets and triplets of spikes that precisely replicate themselves at a later time. The presence of such precisely replicating patterns can still be detected when the tolerance on interval replication is shortened to a fraction of a millisecond. In this context we examine here data taken from various parts of the central nervous systems of anesthetized rats, cats and monkeys. The relative abundance of replicating triplets varies from centre to centre, and is nearly always significantly greater than obtained in Monte-Carlo simulations of either a Poisson-like process or a renewal process having the same interspike interval distribution as the neuronal data. However, a remarkable exception is found in the activity of retinal ganglion cells. Significant deviations were found in the primary visual cortex and, even more so, in the lateral geniculate body and the mitral cells of the olfactory bulb. Using a fixed tolerance for the replication of intervals (0.5 ms) it is usually observed that replicating patterns are produced in excess (with respect to renewal process models) mostly in low firing rate episodes (&lt; or = 100 Hz). However, using a tolerance that varies in direct proportion to the mean interval (i.e. as the reciprocal of the firing rate), one generally observes that replicating triplets occur with higher than expected frequency in comparable proportions at all firing rates. This observation suggests the existence of a scale invariance principle in these phenomena with respect to certain neuronal codes. In order to decrease the influence of the estimated neuronal firing rate on the results of the comparisons, we computed also the ratio NT2/ND3, of the number of replicating triplets to the number of doublets replicating three times [Lestienne R. (1994) Proc. Soc. Neurosci. 20, 22; Lestienne R. (1996) Biol. Cybern. 74, 55-61], using both a fixed or a variable tolerance. In spike trains obeying a Poisson process, NT2/ND3 ratios should be nearly independent of the frequency, especially when using a variable tolerance. These studies supported previous results: significant deviations from the models are found in all the spike trains examined, except in the case of retinal ganglion cells, and the most significant deviations are found in recordings from the lateral geniculate nucleus and the mitral cells of the olfactory bulb. Removing spikes that belong to bursts having large &quot;Poisson surprise&quot; values [Legndy C. R. and Salcman M. (1985) J. Neurophysiol. 53, 926-939] (except the very first spike of the burst) significantly decreases NT2/ND3 ratios in the record from the lateral geniculate nucleus, suggesting that in this case bursty episodes greatly contribute to the production of replicating patterns, but such a removal does not affect results from the piriform record. Finally, in both the lateral geniculate nucleus and in the mitral cells of the olfactory bulb records, perturbing the timing of spikes by applying to interspike intervals small jitters of uniform probability density with amplitude up to 3 ms, very significantly decrease NT2/ND3 ratios in these centres, but does not change much the NT2/ND3 ratios in other neuronal recordings. Implications of these findings for a possible role of precisely replicating patterns in temporal coding of neuronal information is discussed, as well as possible mechanisms for their production.
Camillo Golgi and Santiago Ramn Y Cajal were selected as joint Nobel Prize recipients in 1906, &quot;in recognition of their work on the structure of the nervous system.&quot; This posthumous Festschrift is written in celebration and commemoration of the 90th anniversary of that event, and the reader is invited to participate in an entertaining journey through the history of neuropathology, as it evolved from the time of Golgi and Cajal. The story, of necessity, is written in broad descriptive terms, highlighting major events and personalities, and strives for continuity of narration and coherence of presentation. The historical framework reflects the personal experience and purview of the author and his mentor, Kenneth M. Earle, who began their careers in neurology and neurosurgery, respectively. Emphasis on the close interface linking clinical neuroscience and neuropathology indicates the antecedents of the latter discipline as well as the overlap characterizing current modes of investigation at the cellular and molecular levels. This article is intended to provide a younger generation of neurologists and neurosurgeons with a review of what has gone before as a foundation for their current studies and future careers.


Twenty-four patients (47 eyes) affected by Graves' disease were enrolled to evaluate the role of standardized echography, pattern electroretinogram (P-ERG), visual evoked potentials (P-VEPs) and automated perimetry in the early diagnosis of the compressive optic neuropathy (CON). The P-ERG amplitude reduction was the most sensitive parameter to demonstrate an early impairment of the optic nerve (ON) function. We found a significant negative correlation between the ON diameter and the P-ERG amplitude. VEPs responses were also altered, but their ability in detecting an early ON damage was less sensitive and specific than P-ERG. The visual field damage was often aspecific and delayed with respect to electrophysiological alterations.
Standardized A- and B-scan echography was performed in 45 patients (68 eyes) affected by proliferative diabetic retinopathy, before vitreoretinal surgery, to evaluate the percentage of agreement between the ultrasonographic data and the surgical findings. The agreement was quite good for tractional retinal detachment (93%) and for posterior vitreous detachment (91%). The main cause of failure was the presence of vitreoschisis, while preretinal and vitreal membranes can easily be detected.
Vitreous and vitreoretinal interface changes were evaluated in giant retinal tears in order to plan surgical approach. Vitreal sineresis was evident in patients affected by primary giant retinal tears; in patients affected by retinal disinsertion the vitreous was adherent to the edge of the posterior flap, and in giant retinal tears secondary to IOL implantation, posterior vitreous detachment but no sineresis was displayed.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the ultrasonographic aspects of primary choroidal malignant melanoma (PCMM) after proton beam irradiation therapy and the reliability of its ultrasonographic follow-up in a series of 10 patients. All patients were examined with standardized A and B scan ultrasonography before and after treatment with proton beam irradiation therapy. The follow-up was carried out at 1, 3, 5, 8 months and then every 6 months. The mean follow-up was 20 months (range 6-34 months). The thickness of the tumors was demonstrated to be decreased and the internal reflectivity to be enhanced in 9 out of 10 cases from 8 months after treatment till the end of the follow-up period. Histopathology confirmed in 1 eye enucleated 5 months after treatment that medium-low internal reflectivity coresponded with several areas of high cellularity and cellular mitosis. The results of our study indicate the reliability of standardized A and B scan echography in the follow-up of PCMM treated with proton beam irradiation therapy.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the reliability of the ultrasonographic and angiographic follow-up of primary choroidal malignant melanoma (PCMM) after proton beam irradiation therapy in a series of 14 patients. All patients underwent standardized A and B scan ultrasonography, fluorescein and indocyanine green videoangiography (FV, ICGV) before and after treatment with proton beam irradiation. The follow-up was carried out at 1, 3, 5, 8 months and then every 6 months. The mean follow-up was 26 months (range 6-46 months). The thickness of the tumors was demonstrated to be decreased and the internal reflectivity to be enhanced in 12 out of 14 cases from 8 months after treatment till the end of the follow-up period. In 2 eyes which were enucleated 5 months after treatment, histopathology confirmed that medium-low internal reflectivity corresponded to several areas of high cellularity and cellular mitosis. FV and ICGV were impossible because of opacities of dioptric media in 2 cases. From 8 months after treatment till the end of the follow-up period, in all the examined patients, FV demonstrated large hypofluorescent zones of the lesions which represented the destruction of the vascular tree of the tumor. From 8 months after treatment till the end of the follow-up period, ICGV demonstrated hypofluorescence of the lesions in 8 cases; mild hyperfluorescence and zones of colorant staining were present in late angiograms in 2 cases. The results of our study seem to confirm the reliability of standardized A and B scan ultrasonography in the follow-up of PCMM treated with proton beam irradiation; if ultrasonography is used together with FV and ICGV, the reliability of this combination is surely higher.
The prognosis of primary choroidal malignant melanoma (PCMM) is fatal if no early reliable diagnosis is performed. Any incisional biopsy is impossible, and diagnosis is only based on instrumental examinations. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the reliability of ultrasonography, fluorescein videoangiography (FV), indocyanine green videoangiography (ICGV), magnetic resonance (MR) and radioimmunoscintigraphy (RIS) in the diagnosis of PCMM in a series of 12 eyes in which the tumor was suspected. A presumed diagnosis of PCMM was made when a positive result was obtained with 3 or more methods. The presumed diagnosis was then compared with histological findings (true value) in 4 enucleated eyes. The sensitivity and specificity of every single method were evaluated comparing its results with the final presumed diagnosis and with the histological findings. Sensitivity and specificity of every single method have been expressed as percentage of correspondence with the presumed diagnosis. Sensitivity was 100% for ultrasonography, MR, FV, ICGV and 67% for RIS. Specificity was 92% for ultrasonography, 87% for RIS, 83% for MR and 82% for FV and ICGV. This study indicates that the ophthalmologist can obtain a good diagnostic reliability in the case of PCMM using only ultrasonography, FV and ICGV. Besides MR and RIS are important adjunctive methods to ophthalmological investigations for the diagnosis of PCMM.
Ultrasound biomicroscopy (UBM) was employed in the assessment of the anterior chamber in patients affected by penetrating and blunt traumas. UBM detected correctly the extent and the localization of penetrating injuries and the presence of foreign bodies, IOL dislocation, and angular structures or ciliary body damages.
This retrospective study was undertaken to evaluate the utility of Ultrasound Biomicroscopy (UBM) in the assessment of the anterior chamber in patients affected by silicone oil-related glaucoma after vitreoretinal surgery. UBM showed high reflectivity of angular structure, anterior chamber alterations and a fairly trophic ciliary body.
Menkes disease and occipital horn syndrome (OHS) are related disorders of copper transport that involve abnormal neurodevelopment, connective tissue problems, and often premature death. Location of the gene responsible for these conditions on the X chromosome was indicated by pedigree analysis from the time of these syndromes' earliest descriptions. Characterization of an affected female with an X-autosomal translocation was used to identify the Menkes/OHS gene, which encodes a highly evolutionarily conserved, copper-transporting P-type ATPase. The gene normally is expressed in nearly all human tissues, and it localizes to the trans-Golgi network of cells. However, in over 70% of Menkes and OHS patients studied, expression of this gene has been demonstrated to be abnormal. Major gene deletions detectable by Southern blotting account for 15-20% of patients, and an interesting spectrum of other mutations is evident among 58 families whose precise molecular defects have been reported as of this writing. The center region of the gene seems particularly prone to mutation, and those that influence mRNA processing and splicing appear to be relatively common. Further advances in understanding the molecular and cell biological mechanisms involved in normal copper transport may ultimately yield new and better approaches to the management of these disorders.
Evidence is presented that the recently discovered endogenous mu-selective agonist, endomorphin-2, is localized in primary sensory afferents. Endomorphin-2-like immunoreactivity was found to be colocalized in a subset of substance P- and mu opiate receptor-containing fibers in the superficial laminae of the spinal cord and spinal trigeminal nucleus. Disruption of primary sensory afferents by mechanical (deafferentation by dorsal rhizotomy) or chemical (exposure to the primary afferent neurotoxin, capsaicin) methods virtually abolished endomorphin-2-like immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn. These results indicate that endomorphin-2 is present in primary afferent fibers where it can serve as the endogenous ligand for pre- and postsynaptic mu receptors and as a major modulator of pain perception.
The processing of four neuropeptides, neuropeptide Y (NPY) 1-36, NPY (18-36), somatostatin (SOM) 1-28, and SOM (15-28) was studied in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) by using a novel combination of methods that included radioimmunoassay (RIA) and mass spectrometry. Untreated CSF samples were chromatographed using reversed-phase high pressure liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) followed by NPY-RIA or SOM-RIA. These results were compared with those obtained by incubating CSF with exogenous synthetic peptides and directly detecting peptide fragments by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS). Using this combination of methods, we were able to determine the probable identities of peptides/peptide fragments recognized in radioimmunoassays. The most important NPY-immunoreactive components in CSF were found to be NPY (1-36) and NPY (3-36). Metabolic products of SOM (15-28) were found to contribute to SOM-like immunoreactivity (SOM-LI) in CSF, but SOM (1-28) only to a lesser degree. Differences in the rate of neuropeptide processing were observed. These differences depended more on the length of the peptide than its sequence. NPY (18-36) and SOM (15-28) were rapidly and extensively processed, whereas NPV (1-36) and SOM (1-28) were processed much more slowly in CSF. The production of SOM (15-28) from SOM (1-28) by enzymes in CSF was not observed. Also, the presence of a disulfide bond in the somatostatins appeared to stabilize them against enzymatic digestion of the ring structure. The results detailed in this report confirm MALDI-MS important role in studies of neuropeptide processing in CSF.
The taste reactivity test was used to examine the effect of CCK-octapeptide (CCK-8) on the palatability of a sucrose solution in ovariectomized rats either receiving hormonal replacement (estradiol and progesterone; OVX + HRT), or treated with vehicle only (OVX + VEH). Statistical analyses revealed that the OVX + HRT rats treated with CCK-8 exhibited a robust decrease in ingestive responses, and an increase in aversive responses and passive drips to the intraoral sucrose infusions, relative to treatment with the NaCl vehicle. In contrast, a weak effect of CCK-8 on ingestive responses, no significant effect on the frequency of aversive responses, and a reduced effect on passive drips was observed in the OVX + VEH rats. These results show that CCK-8 modifies sucrose palatability, and that this effect is modulated by gonadal hormone levels.
Gastric adaptive relaxation is a vago-vagal reflex, probably involving the site of interface of vagal afferents and efferents in the dorsal vagal complex of the medulla. Previous studies have shown that both substance P and nitric oxide in the dorsal vagal complex decrease intragastric pressure. The purpose of this study is, firstly, to localize NK1 tachykinin receptor immunoreactive (ir) staining in the dorsal vagal complex and, secondly, to determine its anatomical relationship to nitrergic cells in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Sections were stained by avidin-biotin immunocytochemistry using antiserum to NK1 receptor alone or combined with NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry. In the nucleus tractus solitarius, NK1 receptor-ir varicosities were moderately dense in the medial subnucleus, but sparse in the centralis and gelatinosus subnuclei. In the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, NK1 receptor-ir staining in cell bodies and fibers was present throughout, with a markedly dense varicose fiber and cell body staining in a lateral column of the rostral portion of the nucleus. NADPH-diaphorase staining is most marked in cell bodies in the same region of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. In dual-stained sections, there was complete overlap of NADPH-diaphorase and NK1 receptor-ir stain; however, the markers were very rarely colocalized within the same vagal motor neurons. Ipsilateral vagotomy almost completely abolished NK1r-ir staining in vagal motor neurons. We conclude that, in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, NK1 receptor is synthesized by a population of vagal motor neurons which are in close anatomical proximity to, but separate from, nitrergic neurons. Based on these observations, substance P-mediated gastric relaxation in this region is unlikely to be via activation of nitrergic vagal preganglionic neurons. In the nucleus tractus solitarius, the NK1 receptor and NADPH-diaphorase stain are not codistributed in subnuclei mediating gastric and esophageal control. Therefore, substance P and nitric oxide may mediate their respective gastrointestinal effects via separate afferent pathways.
Some basic amphiphilic peptides are known to directly stimulate heterotrimeric GTP-binding proteins (G proteins). Mastoparan and melittin are known to stimulate Gi activities. Here, we found melittin inhibited guanine nucleotide-dependent adenylyl cyclase activity in synaptic membranes of the rat cerebral cortex. However, in insect cell membranes overexpressing specific heterotrimeric G proteins using baculovirus expression system, melittin showed unique effects different from those by mastoparan on G protein activities. This peptide markedly stimulated Gi1 and G11 activities, whereas it did inhibit Gs activities. Kinetic studies revealed that the inhibition of Gs activity by melittin is attributed to the inhibition of GDP release in exchange for added guanine nucleotides (or the association of guanine nucleotides). Thus, melittin may be the first metabostatic peptide inhibiting G protein (Gs) activity, and both mechanisms through the stimulation of Gi and inhibition of Gs might be involved in the melittin-induced inhibition of adenylyl cyclase.
This review focuses on the contributions of modern mass spectrometry to neuropeptide research. An introduction to newer mass spectrometric techniques is provided. Also, the use of mass spectrometry in combination with high-resolution separation techniques for neuropeptide identification in biological samples is illustrated. The amino acid sequence information that is important for the identification and analysis of known, novel, or chemically modified neuropeptides may be obtained using mass spectrometric techniques. Because mass spectrometry techniques can be used to reflect the dynamic properties associated with neuropeptide processing in biological systems, they may be used in the future to monitor peptide profiles within organisms in response to environmental challenges such as disease and stress.
Metabotropic activities of endomorphin 1, a candidate for endogenous mu-opioid receptor ligands, were examined in comparison with the actions of [D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly5ol]-enkephalin/DAMGO, a well-known synthetic mu-opioid agonist. Endomorphin 1 stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding to synaptic membranes from the mouse amygdala in a naloxone-reversible manner. DAMGO had the same effect in such preparations. In in situ [35S]GTP-gammaS binding experiments using brain sections, both endomorphin 1 and DAMGO similarly stimulated this binding in specific cellular locations throughout the brain regions. These findings strongly support the view that endomorphin 1 selectively acts on a mu-opioid receptor.
Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) was characterized and assayed in plasmas, hearts, and brains of two Algerian desert rodents, Psammomys obesus and Meriones libycus along with vasopressin, which was assayed in hypophyses and hypothalami. Using reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography and radioimmunoassay, we showed, in plasmas and hearts of both species of desert rats, the presence of peptides similar to rat N- and C-terminal ANP but in lower amounts than in Wistar rats. Conversely, C-terminal ANP was abundantly detected in hypophyses from Meriones libycus rats. As these peptides, through their diuretic and natriuretic activities, are involved in body fluid regulation and electrolyte balance, the reduction of ANP stores in both plasmas and hearts suggests that diuresis and natriuresis are lowered in both species of mammals adapted to arid environments. This could occur because of the vasopressin-mediated adaptation, but also in response to the low ANP involvement in hydro-osmotic regulations, even in Psammomys, which has a dietary salt loading. On the other hand, the higher C-terminal ANP contents in the hypophysis of Meriones than in Psammomys and Wistar rats remain to be understood.
Recently, a novel high-affinity peptide antagonist, 1229U91, was published as a selective neuropeptide Y Y1 antagonist. The selectivity of 1229U91 was evaluated in the human NPY Y1 receptor containing cell line, SK-N-MC, and cells containing the cloned human NPY Y2, the pancreatic polypeptide-preferring (NPY Y4), and the NPY Y5 receptors. 1229U91 potently displaced [125I]-peptide YY (PYY) binding to human NPY Y1 receptors (IC50 = 0.245+/-0.004 nM, n = 4). but displayed little affinity for the human NPY Y2 and Y5 receptors (IC50 &gt; 1000 nM). Interestingly, 1229U91 displaced [125I]-PYY with even greater affinity at the human NPY Y4 receptor (IC50 = 0.081+/-0.009 nM, n = 4). Using a cyclic AMP accumulation assay, 1229U91 blocked NPY inhibition of forskolin-induced adenylate cyclase activity in NPY Y1 receptor containing SK-N-MC cells. In the human NPY Y4 receptor expressing cell line, 1229U91 did not block pancreatic polypeptide (PP) inhibition of forskolin stimulated adenylate cyclase. However, in the absence of PP, 1229U91 was able to inhibit forskolin stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation (IC50 = 7.16+/-2.8 nM, n = 4). We conclude that 1229U91 binds non-selectively with high affinity to both human NPY Y1 and Y4 receptors. Furthermore, 1229U91 displays antagonist activity at the NPY Y1 receptor, while having agonist activity at the NPY Y4 receptor.
It has been demonstrated previously that a short acute exposure to a specific extremely low frequency pulsed magnetic field (Cnp) can induce significant partly opioid-mediated analgesia in the land snail, Cepaea nemoralis. Here, this Cnp-induced analgesia is examined for the development of tolerance to daily repeated acute exposures of 15 or 30 min duration. Acute cross-tolerance to the delta opioid receptor directed agonist DPDPE, [D-Pen2, D-Pen5]enkephalin, was also found. Before (pre-exposure) and after (0, 15, 30 and 60 min) exposure to either a sham or Cnp magnetic field, snails were tested for an aversive reaction to a warmed surface (40 degrees C), and the latency time to the aversive reaction was recorded. Snails that were exposed to the Cnp showed a significant increase in the latency time (F1.55 = 2856.4; p &lt; 0.001; Eta2 = 0.95), which may be interpreted as an induction of analgesia. During the daily (9 day) repeated acute exposures, the induction of analgesic response was significantly reduced, but not ablated. Altering the environmental conditions of the Cnp exposure restored a significant proportion of the partly developed tolerance, consistent with previous reports of environmental specificity in the development of opioid tolerance. These findings suggest that the partial development of tolerance to the opioid-mediated portion of Cnp-induced analgesia may be countered by altering the specific environmental Cnp exposure conditions.
The corner effect, the Mnsterberg illusion, and the Caf Wall illusion are explained by a model postulating that the corner effect is an orientation illusion specific to corner edges and that the perceived orientations of these edges are shifted toward angle contraction. It is also assumed that the effect is greatest when the corner edges show the same or similar edge contrast at the corner. This model yields three new types of illusions: the 'checkered illusion', the 'illusion of shifted gradations', and the 'illusion of striped cords'. Each of them gives many variations making a three-dimensional impression.
The visual system has a parallel and hierarchical organization, evident at every stage from the retina onwards. Although the general benefits of parallel and hierarchical organization in the visual system are easily understood, it has not been easy to discern the function of the visual cortical modules. I explore the view that striate cortex segregates information about different attributes of the image, and dispatches it for analysis to different extrastriate areas. I argue that visual cortex does not undertake multiple relatively independent analyses of the image from which it assembles a unified representation that can be interrogated about the what and where of the world. Instead, occipital cortex is organized so that perceptually relevant information can be recovered at every level in the hierarchy, that information used in making decisions at one level is not passed on to the next level, and, with one rather special exception (area MT), through all stages of analysis all dimensions of the image remain intimately coupled in a retinotopic map. I then offer some explicit suggestions about the analyses undertaken by visual areas in occipital cortex, and conclude by examining some objections to the proposals.

It is well recognized that the neurotrophin family of factors as well as neurotransmitters play critical roles in the ontogeny of the brain. Moreover, a growing literature suggests that these environmental signals do not operate individually, but interact in critical ways to enhance maturation. This review focuses on three brain systems where this collaboration is particularly evident: the cerebellum, the basal forebrain-hippocampus and locus coeruleus-hippocampus. The material presented indicates that cross-talk between neurotransmitters and neurotrophins may be a mechanism common to the development of multiple neuronal groups throughout the central nervous system. Moreover, this cross-talk appears to involve the interaction of both neuronal and glial cell populations.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is probably the most abundant neuropeptide, with a plethora of central as well as peripheral effects, including its proabsorptive action in the gastro-intestinal tract. The effects of NPY on electrical parameters related to three different pathways stimulating ion secretion were investigated using the human intestinal cell line HT29cl.19A. Transepithelial potential and resistance were measured with the preparation maintained in a horizontal Ussing chamber, allowing simultaneous measurement of the membrane potential and determination of the fractional resistance of the apical cell membrane. It was found that application of NPY, after the adenylyl-cyclase-activating drug forskolin, resulted in complete inhibition of forskolin-induced effects within approximately 20 min. The secretion stimulated by adenosine appeared to be insensitive to NPY. The acetylcholine analogue carbachol stimulates ion secretion by increasing intracellular free calcium concentrations ([Ca2+]i) which activates the basolateral potassium (K+) conductance. NPY caused 50% inhibition of the effect of carbachol. Measurements of [Ca2+]i showed that NPY inhibited the carbachol-induced rise in [Ca2+]i, which correlates with the reduced activation of basolateral K+ channels. From this study we conclude that NPY inhibits cAMP-stimulated as well as Ca2+-stimulated secretion via a reduction in the apical Cl- and basolateral K+ conductance. This double effect makes NPY an effective proabsorptive peptide.
The influence of maternal opioid receptor blockade (50 mg/kg naltrexone, NTX) or saline (controls) throughout pregnancy on nociception and brain opioid receptor characteristics of rat offspring were examined; all animals were crossfostered to untreated mothers at birth. At 21 and 30 days, NTX-exposed pups weighed 8.2-24.3% more than controls, but both NTX and control groups were of similar body weights at 48, 60, and 80 days. Rats in the NTX and control groups displayed comparable baseline reactions to the hotplate. Morphine challenge tests and nociceptive measures revealed that NTX-subjected offspring examined at 21, 30, 48, and 60 days did not react to dosages that invoked 42-132% decreases from baseline levels in controls. Animals exposed prenatally to NTX were analgesic when injected with the opioid butorphanol or the nonopioid xylazine. The binding affinity (Kd) and capacity (Bmax) of delta and kappa opioid receptors were similar in NTX and control groups at 21 and 80 days. However, the Bmax, but not the Kd, of mu opioid receptors was subnormal in NTX offspring by about 20% in contrast to control rats at 21 and 80 days. The results imply that the interactions of some endogenous opioids with opioid receptors during development are determinants of certain aspects of pain sensitivity as well as the density of particular opioid receptors in the postnatal period.
FAST vs. SLOW selected mouse lines and C57BL/6J (B6) vs. DBA/2J (D2) inbred strains differ in their sensitivities to ethanol's locomotor stimulant effects, and provide two unique sets of genetic animal models to study neurophysiological substrates of this behavior. To determine whether NMDA receptor function mediates sensitivity to ethanol's stimulant effects, we assessed the effects of the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist, MK-801, on locomotor activity of naive and ethanol-treated FAST, SLOW, B6, and D2 mice. MK-801 (0.01-0.5 mg/kg, I.P.) had biphasic effects in all genotypes, with stimulation at moderate doses and decreased activation at the highest dose. FAST mice were more activated by MK-801 than SLOW mice, suggesting that selection differentially altered NMDA receptor function between the lines. B6 and D2 mice did not differ in locomotor responses following MK-801 administration. Stimulant doses of MK-801 decreased or blocked ethanol-stimulated locomotor activity in FAST and D2 mice, and potentiated the locomotor depressant actions of ethanol in SLOW and B6 mice. Potentiation of ethanol's activating properties was observed in one treatment group in D2 mice. These data suggest that NMDA receptors modulate ethanol's stimulant properties, by a more significant involvement in expression of ethanol's locomotor depressant properties.
Several recent studies have implicated the stress hormone corticosterone in modulating the rewarding properties of abused drugs, including amphetamine and ethanol. The present experiments examined a role for corticosterone in modulating the rewarding effects of ethanol in the place conditioning paradigm. Male DBA/2J mice were subjected to a Pavlovian conditioning procedure in which a distinctive floor stimulus (CS+) was paired four times with ethanol (2 g/kg). On intervening days, a different floor stimulus was paired with saline (CS-). In the first experiment, the steroid synthesis inhibitor, aminoglutethimide (AMG), administered prior to conditioning trials with ethanol, did not alter the acquisition of place preference. However, during conditioning trials, ethanol-stimulated locomotor activity in the AMG-treated group was significantly higher relative to the vehicle-treated group, suggesting that corticosterone may normally inhibit ethanol-stimulated activity. Plasma corticosterone levels in AMG-treated mice were significantly lower than in vehicle-treated mice, showing that AMG effectively suppressed corticosterone release on CS+ trials. The second experiment examined the effect of AMG on the expression of conditioned ethanol place preference. AMG administration prior to the preference test did not alter the magnitude of ethanol place preference. Corticosterone levels in the AMG-treated groups were significantly reduced relative to vehicle-treated groups, which showed a higher level of corticosterone during the preference test. These findings show that manipulation of corticosterone levels in a physiological range does not alter the acquisition or expression of ethanol-induced conditioned place preference in DBA/2J mice.
The effects of repeated exposure to a novel test box on cardiac and behavioral activities (locomotion, rearing, grooming, scanning, and immobility) were studied in rats tested during the dark phase (&quot;dark&quot; rats) or the light phase (&quot;light&quot; rats) of the lighting cycle, using a telemetry system for registration of ECGs during the first and fifth tests. Heart rate (HR) was used to monitor sympathetic and parasympathetic activity; the PQ interval was used to monitor parasympathetic activity. Behavior was videotaped simultaneously. In light rats, the first and fifth exposures to the test box resulted in higher increases of active behavior and HR than in dark rats, whereas the duration of the PQ interval of the ECG was increased in light rats only. This indicates that in the light phase novelty induces active behavior associated with an increase in both sympathetic and vagal outflow, whereas in the dark phase behavioral activation is predominantly associated with increased sympathetic activity, without appreciable changes in vagal outflow. In addition, light rats showed less active behavior during the fifth than during the first exposure, indicating behavioral habituation. This behavioral habituation to the test box in the light phase coincided with vagal habituation (a diminution of the PQ interval). The increase of the tachycardiac response during the fifth exposure as compared to the first exposure suggests that it is not likely that sympathetic outflow was part of the habituation process. In dark rats no behavioral or cardiac habituation was found.
Feeding and housing conditions that induce gastric lesions were investigated. Rats were housed in activity wheels or in hanging cages and exposed to food deprivation, ad lib cellulose or 6 g of cellulose per day for 5 days. Food-deprived rats in both housing conditions had ulcers in the rumen but many rats also had mucosal ulcers. Cellulose prevented rumenal ulcers but produced a tendency toward more severe mucosal ulcers. Ulcers in wheel-housed rats were somewhat larger but the difference was not significant. In a second experiment, rats were fed 6 g/day laboratory chow or 6 g/day chow + ad lib cellulose until b.wt. reached a preset criterion. On the average, about 10 days on the feeding regimen were required to induce ulcers in these groups. None of the rats had rumenal ulcers. Mucosal ulcers were reliably larger in rats that received cellulose in addition to 6 g of chow. There was no difference in ulcer area between wheel-housed and cage-housed rats. The results indicate that solid bulk, regardless of its caloric value or amount, protects the nonglandular stomach whereas noncaloric bulk tends to aggravate ulcers in the glandular stomach. A small amount of chow delays the rate of b.wt. loss and consequently ulcer formation. Furthermore, wheel running is not necessary to produce mucosal ulcers when food intake is insufficient to maintain b.wt. and b.wt. at sacrifice seems to be a good predictor of ulcer formation.
The effect of L-glutamate, kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) on membrane currents of astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and their respective precursors was studied in acute spinal cord slices of rats between the ages of postnatal days 5 and 13 using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. L-glutamate (10(-3) M), kainate (10(-3) M), and NMDA (2x10(-3) M) evoked inward currents in all glial cells. Kainate evoked larger currents in precursors than in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, while NMDA induced larger currents in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes than in precursors. Kainate-evoked currents were blocked by the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist CNQX (10(-4) M) and were, with the exception of the precursors, larger in dorsal than in ventral horns, as were NMDA-evoked currents. Currents evoked by NMDA were unaffected by CNQX and, in contrast to those seen in neurones, were not sensitive to Mg2+. In addition, they significantly decreased during development and were present when synaptic transmission was blocked in a Ca2+-free solution. NMDA-evoked currents were not abolished during the block of K+ inward currents in glial cells by Ba2+; thus they are unlikely to be mediated by an increase in extracellular K+ during neuronal activity. We provide evidence that spinal cord glial cells are sensitive to the application of L-glutamate, kainate and transiently, during postnatal development, to NMDA.
Glial cells respond to various electrical, mechanical, and chemical stimuli, including neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, and hormones, with an increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i). The increases exhibit a variety of temporal and spatial patterns. These [Ca2+]i responses result from the coordinated activity of a number of molecular cascades responsible for Ca2+ movement into or out of the cytoplasm either by way of the extracellular space or intracellular stores. Transplasmalemmal Ca2+ movements may be controlled by several types of voltage- and ligand-gated Ca(2+)-permeable channels as well as Ca2+ pumps and a Na+/Ca2+ exchanger. In addition, glial cells express various metabotropic receptors coupled to intracellular Ca2+ stores through the intracellular messenger inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate. The interplay of different molecular cascades enables the development of agonist-specific patterns of Ca2+ responses. Such agonist specificity may provide a means for intracellular and intercellular information coding. Calcium signals can traverse gap junctions between glial cells without decrement. These waves can serve as a substrate for integration of glial activity. By controlling gap junction conductance, Ca2+ waves may define the limits of functional glial networks. Neuronal activity can trigger [Ca2+]i signals in apposed glial cells, and moreover, there is some evidence that glial [Ca2+]i waves can affect neurons. Glial Ca2+ signaling can be regarded as a form of glial excitability.
Carotid and vertebral artery percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting are new, experimental techniques. Their potential uses are discussed and the results and complications reported to date are reviewed.
Neurons from the vestibular (VG) and the statoacoustic (SAG) ganglion of the chick (Gallus domesticus) were evaluated histologically and morphometrically. Embryos at stages 34 (E8 days), 39 (E13 days) and 44 (E18 days) were sacrificed and temporal bones microdissected. Specimens were embedded in JB-4 methacrylate plastic, and stained with a mixture of 0.2% toluidine blue (TB) and 0.1% basic Fuschin in 25% ethanol or with a mixture of 2% TB and 1% paraphenylenediamine (PDA) for axon and myelin measurement study. Images of the VIIIth nerve were produced by a V150 (R) color imaging system and the contour of 200-300 neuronal bodies (perikarya) was traced directly on a video screen with a mouse in real time. The cross-sectional area of VG perikarya was 67.29 micrometers2 at stage 34 (E8), 128.46 micrometers2 at stage 39 (E13) and 275.85 micrometers2 at stage 44 (E18). The cross-sectional area of SAG perikarya was 62.44 micrometers2 at stage 34 (E8), 102.05 micrometers2 at stage 39 (E13) and 165.02 micrometers2 at stage 44 (E18). A significant cross-sectional area increase of the VG perikarya between stage 39 (E13) and stage 44 (E18) was determined. We randomly measured the cross-sectional area of myelin and axoplasm of hatchling afferent nerves, and found a correspondence between axoplasmic and myelin cross-sectional area in the utricular, saccular and semicircular canal nerve branches of the nerve. The results suggest that the period between stage 34 (E8) and 39 (E13) is a critical period for afferent neuronal development. Physiological and behavioral vestibular properties of developing and maturing hatchlings may change accordingly. The results compliment previous work by other investigators and provide valuable anatomical measures useful to correlate physiological data obtained from stimulation of the whole nerve or its parts.
Findings from basic neuroscience have elucidated mechanisms of action of estrogen on the structure and function of brain areas known to be critically involved in memory. Controlled clinical studies of the administration of estrogen to postmenopausal women have found that estrogen enhances verbal memory and maintains the ability to learn new material. These findings are supported by those from investigations of healthy, elderly, women and by results of a study in which younger women received a gonadotropin releasing-hormone analog that suppressed ovarian function. The specificity of the estrogenic effect on cognitive functions is consistent with known sex differences in cognitive abilities and suggests that, in adulthood, estrogen serves to activate neural pathways established under the influence of this steroid hormone during prenatal life.

Behavioral neuroscience is using more and more gene knockout techniques to produce animals with a specific deletion. These studies have their precedent in nature. A mutation may result in a limited genetic defect, as seen in the vasopressin (VP) deficiency in the Brattleboro rat. The mutation is in a single pair of autosomal loci, and the sequences of VP gene from wild-type and homozygous Brattleboro rats are identical except for a single nucleotide deletion in the second exon. The deletion results in the synthesis of an altered VP precursor that is unable to enter the secretory pathway. The genetic disturbance results in a central diabetes insipidus comparable to that found in humans. Starting with our work during the early 1970s we found that the genetic defect in the availability of VP causes deficits in central nervous system (CNS) functions. Behavioral processes from cognition to drug tolerance appeared to be disturbed by the absence of VP, but not all behaviors are affected. The specificity of the absence of VP in causing behavioral deficits is shown in many cases. However, certain deficits are due to genetic factors other than the deletion of the VP gene. The picture is further complicated by differences in testing conditions, the absence of proper controls, i.e. heterozygous and wild-type Brattleboro rats, sex, compensation phenomena, and the absence of neuropeptides co-localized with VP. Interestingly, an age dependent spontaneous shunt to a heterozygous phenotype in vasopressinergic neurons might also compensate for the disturbance. Accordingly, findings in knockout animals should be interpreted with caution. One should realize that brain functions are modulated by multiple neuropeptides and that neuropeptides possess multiple CNS effects.
The effects of endogenous metabolites of the neuropeptide vasopressin (VP) in behavioural tests led to the hypothesis that VP metabolites have a more selective function than VP. In contrast to VP, no peripheral effects have been found thus far with VP metabolites and their function seems to be associated with memory-related behaviour. VP metabolites can improve both consolidation and retrieval of memory. Effects on autonomic and electrophysiological parameters and interactions with other neurotransmitter systems have provided some information about the processes that could underlie the effects of VP metabolites on memory-related behaviour. There is evidence that the effects of VP metabolites could be mediated by a VP metabolite receptor, which is different from the known VP receptors. The VP metabolite receptor could be a link between the neuropeptide VP and memory-related behaviour.
While central administration of arginine vasopressin (VP) to the non-febrile rat at high doses can cause hypothermia, there is little evidence for a role for endogenous VP in normal thermoregulation. In contrast, VP arising from cell bodies in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and innervating the ventral septal areas and possibly the amygdala appears to be an endogenous antipyretic, i.e. a substance capable of reducing fever. As the synthesis of VP in bed nucleus neurons is dependent upon circulating androgens, female rats have much less VP in these cells and their projections than do male rats. In keeping with this, females may make use of VP to a lesser extent than do males to bring about antipyresis. The phenomenon whereby the VP receptor can become sensitized by previous exposure to VP may be responsible for some states of endogenous antipyresis, in which fevers are suppressed through overactivity of the vasopressinergic system. States of endogenous antipyresis can be revealed around the time of parturition in both the neonate and the mother.
We have used hypothalamic slices of the supraoptic nucleus (SON) to investigate synaptic control of magnocellular vasopressinergic and oxytocinergic neurons. With the use of perforated patch recording techniques we identified and isolated excitatory or inhibitory postsynaptic currents elicited by electrical stimulation of afferent fibers. Both inhibitory and excitatory afferent fibers displayed presynaptic GABAB receptors; the GABAB agonist, baclofen caused a dose-dependent suppression of the evoked potentials in the absence of any effects on postsynaptic input resistance. Further evidence for a presynaptic locus included an increase in paired pulse ratio and a lack of effect on currents elicited by exogenously applied muscimol (a GABAA receptor agonist) or AMPA (a glutamate agonist). With the use of an GABAB receptor antagonist we demonstrated an action of endogenously released GABA, acting at GABAB receptors on excitatory terminals, to reduce excitatory transmission. In addition to presynaptic modulation by GABA of afferent inputs, we also observed actions of vasopressin and oxytocin, released from dendrites of magnocellular SON neurons, to gate afferent, excitatory transmission in the SON. Exogenously applied vasopressin and oxytocin, or these peptides when released by depolarizing stimuli of magnocellular neurons, reduced the size of evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials at a presynaptic locus. We have also observed actions of arginine vasopressin to modulate the action of glutamate in slices of the ventral septal area and to attenuate a glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic current in slices of the parabrachial nucleus.
The effects of vasopressin (VP), VP fragments and propressophysin glycopeptide on neuronal activities in the septum-hippocampus complex of rats were studied in vitro and in vivo. The frequency of the hippocampus theta rhythm in Brattleboro rats homozygous for diabetes insipidus was significantly slower than that of heterozygous litter mates and normal rats. Intracerebroventricular micro-injection of des-glycine-amide vasopressin corrected for several hours the frequency deficit of the theta rhythm in the homozygous Brattleboro rats and the centrally administered VP slowed down theta rhythm in normal rats. Microinotophoretically administered VP excited single neurons in the lateral septum of ventral hippocampus, and/or facilitated the responses of these neurons to glutamate and to stimulation of the glutamatergic afferent fibers in the fimbria bundle. The excitatory effects of VP vanished within seconds after termination of the peptide administration, however, the peptide-induced enhancement of glutamate and syntatically induced excitations were sustained for up to 60 min after the peptide administration. In vitro, pM concentrations of VP, VP 4-8 and C-terminus glycopeptide of propresophysin facilitated for 30-60 min the glutamate-mediated EPSPs in neurons of the lateral septum or the ventral hippocampus. The EPSPs increase in the lateral septum neurons was not prevented by pretreatment with antagonist of the V1a type of the vasopressin receptor. The resting membrane potential and input resistance were not affected by the peptides. A low-frequency electrical stimulation in the diagonal Band of Broca or in the Bed nucleus of the stria terminals, sources of the vasopressinergic innervation of the septum, facilitated the negative wave of the filed potentials responses evoked in the lateral septum by stimulating the fimbria bundle fibers in control Long-Evans and Brattleboro rats heterozygous for diabetes insipidus. The field potential increase was sustained for several hours after the stimulation, and it was not occluded by long-term potentiation elicited by high frequency stimulation of the fimbria bundle afferent fibers. Brattleboro rats homozygous for diabetes insipidus failed to show the filed potential increase after the diagonal band stimulation. It is suggested that the long-lasting facilitation of glutamate-mediated excitations might be a physiological action of the propressophysin-derived peptides in the septum-hippocampus complex which, in concert with other forms of synaptic plasticity like the long-term potentiation, facilitates the hippocampus-mediated forms of learning and memory. This action is presumably related to the memory enhancing effect of the propressophysin-derived peptides.
Vasopressin (VP) undergoes a step-wise aminopeptidase conversion process in the brain, leading to accumulation of several metabolites. Some of these metabolites, in particular [pGlu4,Cyt6]VP 4-9 and 4-8, show behavioral effects comparable to VP, but are more potent and selective than VP. Most data favor the existence of a separate receptor for the VP metabolites distinct of the classical VP and oxytocin receptors, although its identity has remained obscure thus far. The characterization of this receptor is a major challenge to understand how the brain VP system generates and regulates divers central functions.
Magnocellular neuroendocrine cells of the hypothalamic paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei are responsible for most of the vasopressin and oxytocin in the peripheral blood as well as for central release of these peptides in selected brain areas. As the principal component of the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system, these neurons have been a subject of continual study for half a century. The wealth of solid information from decades of in vivo studies has provided a firm basis for in vitro, brain slice and explant investigations of neural mechanisms involved in the control and regulation of vasopressin and oxytocin neurons. In vitro methods have revealed the presence and permitted the study of monosynaptic projections to supraoptic neurons from the olfactory bulbs, the tuberomammillary nuclei of the posterior hypothalamus and from the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis. Such methods have also facilitated the elucidation of the various ionic currents controlling neurosecretory cell activity as well as the roles of calcium binding proteins and release of calcium from internal stores. This review summarizes recent advances in our understanding of the afferent inputs that impinge upon these two cell types, and the cellular and molecular mechanisms intrinsic to these neurons that determine their activity patterns and, in part, their responses to incoming stimuli.
The release of vasopressin into the general circulation varies as a function of plasma osmolality and therefore plays a major role in systemic osmoregulation. In vivo, the secretion of this hormone in the neurohypophysis is primarily determined by the rate of action potential discharge of the magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) in the hypothalamus. Experiments done over the past 20 years have clarified much of the neurophysiological basis underlying this important osmoregulatory reflex. As discussed here, recent findings indicate that the regulation of the firing rate of MNCs during changes in systemic osmolality involves the concerted modulation of mechanosensitive ion channels in MNCs, as well as excitatory glutamatergic inputs derived from forebrain regions such as the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis.
Synaptic activation leads to the formation of arachidonic acid, platelet-activating factor (PAF, 1-O-alkyl-2-acyl-sn-3-phosphocholine) and other lipid messengers. PAF is a potent bioactive phospholipid in synaptic plasticity. PAF enhances presynaptic glutamate release, is a retrograde messenger in long-term potentiation and enhances memory formation. PAF also couples synaptic events with gene expression by stimulating a FOS/JUN/AP-1 transcriptional signaling system, as well as transcription of COX-2 (inducible prostaglandin synthase). Since the COX-2 gene is also involved in synaptic plasticity, the PAF-COX-2 pathway may have physiological significance. Seizures, ischemia and other forms of brain injury promote phospholipase A2 (PLA2) overactivation, resulting in the accumulation of bioactive lipids at the synapse. PAF, under these pathological conditions, behaves as a neuronal injury messenger by at least two mechanisms: (a) enhancing glutamate release; and, (b) by sustained augmentation of COX-2 transcription. These events link PAF with neurodegeneration. The upstream intracellular pathways of signal transduction involved in neuronal or photoreceptor cell apoptosis are not well understood and involve stress sensitive kinases. PAF is a transcriptional activator of the COX-2 gene. BN 50730, a potent intracellular PAF antagonist, blocks COX-2 induction. COX-2 transcription and protein expression are upregulated in the hippocampus in kainic acid induced epileptogenesis. There is a selectively elevated induction of COX-2 (72-fold) by kainic acid preceding neuronal cell death. BN 50730 administered by i.c.v. injection blocks seizure-induced COX-2 induction. Overall, PAF is a dual modulator of neural function and becomes an endogenous neurotoxin when over produced.


The chemical reactions of NO are largely dictated by its redox state. Increasing evidence suggests that the various redox states of the NO group exist endogenously in biological tissues. In the case of NO+ equivalents, the mechanism of reaction often involves S-nitrosylation (transfer of the NO group to a cysteine sulfhydryl to form an RS-NO); further oxidation of critical thiols can possibly form disulfide bonds. We have physiological and chemical evidence that NMDA receptor activity can be modulated by S-nitrosylation, resulting in a decrease in channel opening. Recent data suggest that NO-, probably in the singlet (or high-energy) state, can also react with critical sulfhydryl group(s) of the NMDA receptor to down-regulate its activity; in the triplet (lower-energy) state NO- may oxidize these NMDA receptor sulfhydryl groups by formation of an intermediate such as peroxynitrite. It has also been reported that NO can react with thiol but only under specific circumstances, e.g., if an electron acceptor such as O2 is present, as well at catalytic amounts of metals like copper, and if the conditions do not favor the kinetically preferred reaction with O2.- to yield peroxynitrite. Mounting evidence in many fields suggests that S-nitrosylation can regulate the biological activity of a great variety of proteins, perhaps analogous to phosphorylation. Thus, this chemical reaction is gaining acceptance as a newly-recognized molecular switch to control protein function via reactive thiol groups such as those encountered on the NMDA receptor.



In summary, PDAPP mice overexpressing a mutation associated with some cases of familial early-onset AD express several of the major pathological hallmarks associated with AD. Amyloid plaques in PDAPP mice appear quite similar to A beta deposits in AD as shown by a variety of different antibodies and stains, and are of both the diffuse and compacted varieties. Additionally, a subset of these amyloid plaques appear to be neuritic plaques. Neurodegenerative changes, including the loss of synaptic and dendritic proteins, abnormal phosphorylation of cytoskeletal elements, subcellular degenerative changes, and the deposition of lysosomal and acute phase proteins has also been seen in PDAPP mouse brains. Reactive astrocytosis and microgliosis have also been observed in association with the amyloid plaques in the PDAPP mice. No neurofibrillary tangles or paired helical filaments have been found in the mice to date. It remains unknown whether mice are capable of generating these in a manner comparable to AD in less than two years. Extensive behavioral analyses are currently being performed in these mice, and preliminary results indicate that the PDAPP mice are significantly impaired on a variety of different learning and memory tests. In conclusion, the PDAPP mouse model doesn't display all the pathological hallmarks of AD, but it does display most of them in a robust manner that increases with age and gene dosage. Therefore, this transgenic model provides evidence that alterations in APP processing and A beta production can result in AD-like neuropathology, can contribute to a mechanistic understanding of AD (since examination of AD brains yields a static view, and we are unable to view the development of various pathological changes), as well as providing an useful animal model for the testing of various therapeutic interventions directed towards specific aspects of the neurodegenerative process.





Glutamatergic synapses play a critical role in all epileptic phenomena. Broadly enhanced activation of post-synaptic glutamate receptors (ionotropic and metabotropic) is proconvulsant. Antagonists of NMDA receptors and AMPA receptors are powerful anticonvulsants in many animal models of epilepsy. A clinical application of pure specific glutamate antagonists has not yet been established. Many different alterations in glutamate receptors or transporters can potentially contribute to epileptogenesis. Several genetic alterations have been shown to be epileptogenic in animal models but no specific mutation relating to glutamatergic function has yet been linked to a human epilepsy syndrome. There is clear evidence for altered NMDA receptor function in acquired epilepsy in animal models and in man. Changes in metabotropic receptor function may also play a key role in epileptogenesis.


Insulin is a molecule that has played a key role in several of the most important landmarks in medical and biological research. It is one of the most extensively studied protein hormones, and its structure and function have been elucidated in many vertebrate species, ranging from man to hagfish and turkey. The structure, function as well as tissue of synthesis of vertebrate insulins are strictly conserved. The structural identification of insulin-related peptides from invertebrates has disrupted the picture of an evolutionary stable peptide hormone. Insulin-related peptides in molluscs and insects turned out to be a structurally diverse group encoded by large multi-gene families that are uniquely expressed in the brain and serve functions different from vertebrate insulin. In this review, we discuss invertebrate insulins in detail. We examine how these peptides relate to the model role that vertebrate insulin has played over the years; however, more importantly, we discuss several unique principles that can be learned from them. We show how diversity of these peptides is generated at the genetic level and how the structural diversity of the peptides is linked to the exclusive presence of a single type of neuronal insulin receptor-related receptor. We also discuss the fact that the invertebrate peptides, in addition to a hormonal role, may also act in a synaptic and/or nonsynaptic fashion as transmitters/neuromodulators on neurons in the brain. It can be expected that the use of well-defined neuronal preparations in invertebrates may lead to a further understanding of these novel functions and may act as guide preparations for a possible role of insulin and its relatives in the vertebrate brain.
Dementia due to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is the commonest cause of dementia in children, young adults and middle-aged people. Its incidence continues to rise despite the use of newer antiretroviral agents. The study of the pathogenesis of HIV dementia has lead to the discovery of novel mechanisms of neural dysfunction and toxicity, and holds promise for further discovery of new molecules and pathways involved in maintaining cerebral function and enabling dysfunction. New to the field of neurovirology is the emerging concept that proteins that are part of the virus may themselves be neurotoxic by virtue of their abilities to be either directly toxic to brain cells or may, through their actions on glial cells or macrophages, release neurotoxic products coded by the host genome. These mechanisms have been demonstrated for HIV-1 and accordingly we propose a new term, virotoxins, to describe such actions. This review provides an in-depth analysis of the pathophysiological mechanisms by which these viral and cellular products affected by HIV virotoxins cause neural dysfunction.
1. Male CD-1 mice were tested for prepulse inhibition (PPI) following administration of PCP and the PCP site ligand, (+)MK-801, as well as the dopamine (DA) agonist (-)-apomorphine and DA releaser d-amphetamine. Similar to reports in rats, PCP (0.36-36.0 mumol/kg), (+)MK-801 (0.03-3.0 mumol/kg), (-)-apomorphine (3.3 and 10.0 mumol/kg) and d-amphetamine (3.0 and 8.0 mumol/kg) significantly reduced PPI when administered prior to testing. 2. Because PCP also binds to sigma receptors, the authors tested the sigma ligand (+)-3-PPP at (118 mumol/kg) which marginally increased the PPI. 3. Haloperidol (1.1 mumol/kg) pretreatment attenuated the reduction in PPI following (-)-apomorphine (10.0 mumol/kg), however no effects of haloperidol or clozapine pretreatment on (+)MK-801 disruption of PPI were observed. 4. Because of the pharmacological similarities between mouse data and previously published rat data, it is concluded that the mouse is a viable alternative to the rat for testing PPI.
This article reviews current knowledge of neurofilament structure, phosphorylation, and function and neurofilament involvement in disease. Neurofilaments are obligate heteropolymers requiring the NF-L subunit together with either the NF-M or the NF-H subunit for polymer formation. Neurofilaments are very dynamic structures; they contain phosphorylation sites for a large number of protein kinases, including protein kinase A (PKA), protein kinase C (PKC), cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK), glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), and stress-activated protein kinase gamma (SAPK gamma). Most of the neurofilament phosphorylation sites, located in tail regions of NF-M and NF-H, consist of the repeat sequence motif, Lys-Ser-Pro (KSP). In addition to the well-established role of neurofilaments in the control of axon caliber, there is growing evidence based on transgenic mouse studies that neurofilaments can affect the dynamics and perhaps the function of other cytoskeletal elements, such as microtubules and actin filaments. Perturbations in phosphorylation or in metabolism of neurofilaments are frequently observed in neurodegenerative diseases. A down-regulation of mRNA encoding neurofilament proteins and the presence of neurofilament deposits are common features of human neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease. Although the extent to which neurofilament abnormalities contribute to pathogenesis in these human diseases remains unknown, emerging evidence, based primarily on transgenic mouse studies and on the discovery of deletion mutations in the NF-H gene of some ALS eases, suggests that disorganized neurofilaments can provoke selective degeneration and death of neurons. An interference of axonal transport by disorganized neurofilaments has been proposed as one possible mechanism of neurofilament-induced pathology. Other factors that can potentially lead to the accumulation of neurofilaments will be discussed as well as the emerging evidence for neurofilaments as being possible targets of oxidative damage by mutations in the superoxide dismutase enzyme (SOD1); such mutations are responsible for approximately 20% of familial ALS cases.
Considerable evidence implicates the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the biochemical pathophysiology of mood disorders. In this study, we investigated the possibility that the gene for the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptor alpha-1 subunit (GABRA1) might be associated with depressive symptomatology in a sample of mood disorder subjects. Sixty-seven inpatients affected by unipolar (n = 37) and bipolar (n = 30) disorder (DSMIV) were assessed at admission by the Hamilton depression rating scale (HAMD) and were typed using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques. GABRA1 variants were not associated with depressive symptomatology, and consideration of possible stratification effects such as sex, psychiatric diagnosis and illness severity did not reveal any association either. GABAA alpha-1 subunit gene is not, therefore, associated with depressive symptomatology in mood disorder subjects.
Corticosteroids from the adrenal cortex influence a variety of behaviours including cognition, learning and memory. These hormones act via two intracellular receptors, the mineralo-corticoid receptor (MR) and the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). These two receptor types display a high concentration and distinct distribution in the hippocampus, a brain region which is directly involved in the regulation of spatial orientation and learning. In this study, repeated subcutaneous administration of the mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist RU28318 (1.0 mg/100 g body weight), the glucocorticoid receptor blocker RU38486 (2.5 mg/100 g body weight), or a combination of both antagonists were investigated for their effects on working--and reference memory in morning and afternoon trials during 8 subsequent days in food rewarded spatial learning in a hole board task. Each rat received one dose of either vehicle (2% ethanol in PEG 400), RU28318, RU38486 or the combination of both antagonists directly after the first trial on training days 1, 3, 5, and 7. The experiments demonstrated that repeated blockade of mineralocorticoid receptors impairs reference memory reflected in the morning--as well as in the afternoon trial, whereas blockade of glucocorticoid receptors has little effect on this type of cognitive behaviour. Furthermore, combined blockade of MRs and GRs resulted in a decrease, in both daily trials, in reference memory as well as working memory performance. These findings suggest that in this spatial learning paradigm, the impairment of working memory required blockade of both receptor types, while reference memory performance involves predominantly the mineralocorticoid receptors.
All mothers (n = 79) in the county of Stockholm who gave birth to a child during 1976-77 and were also hospitalised for the first time in a psychiatric clinic were followed up after a mean interval of 15 years. The sample was classified according to the Research Diagnostic Criteria. Comparisons were made with matched obstetric controls. Five patients had died. The recurrence rate was 51% and 7. 3% relapsed after a subsequent childbirth. No difference was found between psychotic and non-psychotic mothers regarding mean sick-leave days per year. The majority of the women with a depressive disorder at index admission suffered from a minor depressive disorder. The women in the group with an unspecified functional psychosis showed a less severe course of illness than the women in the schizophrenia group.
Recent evidence suggests that the dopamine D4 receptor may play a role in schizophrenia, and that the atypical properties of the antipsychotic clozapine may be attributable in part to its antagonistic actions at this receptor. In the present study, clozapine and three other compounds having D4 dopamine receptor antagonist properties were examined for their effectiveness in reducing losses in prepulse inhibition (PPI) induced in rats by the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine. Previously, activity in the PPI model has been shown to correlate highly with the antipsychotic potency of a number of neuroleptics. As previously reported, clozapine (1-5.6 mg/kg) significantly reduced apomorphine-induced PPI deficits. The three D4-selective compounds, CP-293,019 (5.6-17.8 mg/kg), U-101,387 (3-30 mg/kg) and L-745,870 (1-10 mg/kg), also significantly blocked the losses in PPI produced by apomorphine. Taken together, these results suggest that dopamine receptor antagonists with selectivity for the D4 dopamine receptor subtype may be effective in the treatment of schizophrenia, while being less likely to produce dyskinesias associated with D2 receptor antagonists.
The effects of the NMDA/glycine site antagonist, 7-chloro-4-hydroxy-3-(3-phenoxy)phenyl-2(1H)-quinolone (L-701,324), and the benzodiazepine receptor agonist, diazepam, were examined in the elevated plus-maze and in the Vogel's conflict test. Oral administration of L-701,324 caused a dose-dependent increase (2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg, -30 min) in the percent time spent in the open arms with no change in the total number of arm entries or in the percent entries into the open arms of the plus-maze. The same doses of L-701,324 increased punished responding in the Vogel's conflict test in a dose-dependent fashion, with no influence on unpunished drinking behavior. The anxiolytic-like effects of L-701,324 were obtained at doses which by themselves had no influence on the locomotor activity of the animals. Diazepam (2 mg/kg, i.p., -30 min) was slightly more effective than L-701,324 in the plus-maze situation, whereas the increase in punished drinking in the Vogel's test was of the same magnitude for both compounds. Our present results suggest that inhibition of NMDA receptor activity via a blockade of the NMDA/glycine-sensitive site at the NMDA receptor is accompanied by a reduction of anxiety-like behavior in both non-conditioned and conditioned conflict behavior situations.


To test whether a single amino-acid residue at the center of pore region can dictate the difference of open-close kinetics in a steady-state at hyperpolarized potentials among members of the inward K+ channel family, the Q140E mutant of the inward rectifier K+ channel (IRK1) was made and its gating properties were compared with those of IRK1 wild type (Wt) in Xenopus oocytes. The distinct differences were observed only at the single channel level. The open time constant of mutant tau(o)(Q140E) at -80 mV was over ten-fold shorter than that of Wt tau(o)(Wt); in Wt, the closed time distribution was fitted with a sum of two exponentials (c-slow and c-fast), whereas it could be fitted with three exponentials (c-slow, c-fast, and additional c-extrafast) in Q140E. However, the time constant of burst duration of mutant tau(b)(Q140E) was close to tau(o)(Wt) and both showed a similarly strong voltage dependence, and a high sensitivity to pH0 in the absence of Mg02+, indicating that tau(b)(Q140E) is closely related to tau(o)(Wt). These results demonstrated that Q140E shortened the channel openings by acquiring an extra-fast closing state. From the analysis of the effects of cations on both Wt and Q140E, it was suggested that the transition from the open state to this extra-fast closing state was not due to the block by H+ or Mg2+ but possibly by extracellular K+.
Sodium-dependent glutamate transporters influence neurotransmission in the central nervous system by removing synaptically released glutamate from the extracellular space and by maintaining extracellular glutamate concentrations below neurotoxic levels. In insects, glutamate also serves as the neurotransmitter at the neuromuscular junction, but the mechanism for neurotransmitter clearance at this synapse has not well-established. Here we report that cloning and characterization of a sodium-dependent glutamate transporter, dEAAT, from Drosophila melanogaster. The 479 amino acid dEAAT gene product is 40-50% homologous to mammalian members of this carrier family. A 3.3 kilobase (kb) transcript for dEAAT was detected in adult fly heads and to a lesser extent in bodies by Northern-blot analysis and was also localized to neurons in the central nervous system by in situ hybridization. The transport activity observed following express of dEAAT in Xenopus oocytes or COS-7 cells shows a high affinity for L-glutamate, L-aspartate and D-aspartate, an absolute dependence on external sodium ions, and considerable stereoselectivity for the transport of L-glutamate over D-glutamate. As has been observed for the human carriers, EAAT 4 and EAAT 5, a significant component of the current activated by L-glutamate application to dEAAT-expressing oocytes appears to arise from the activation of a chloride channel associated with the carrier.
The aim of this study is to determine, as precisely as possible, the topography and the density of host afferents to visually responsive grafts of occipital embryonic cells implanted in block form into the occipital neocortex of adult rats. The presence of visual activity in the grafts was assessed through field potential and single unit electrophysiological recordings. Field potentials appeared triphasic in shape, had low peak-to-peak amplitude (= 100 micro V), and had normal time latencies ( 30 msec). Polarity reversal was never observed. Single unit recordings showed that graft neurons exhibited normal (desynchronized) spontaneous activity, had discrete receptive fields ( 20 masculine in dia.), and responded to small stationary light flashes. A topic projection of the visual field in the grafts was also observed. Injections of cholera toxin sabunit B (CTB) into these responsive grafts induced retrograde labeling in almost all the brain regions normally projecting to the occipital cortical areas. The visual related cortical (Oc 1, Oc2) and thalamic (LP, LD, LGB) regions of the host provide the largest contingent (70-75%) of afferents to the graft. Finally, one of the major findings of this study is that 93-97% of the labeled cortical cells were found in cortical layers V and VI with a net preference for layer VI. A noticeable proportion of these layer VI labeled neurons (15-20%) was systematically observed in sublayer VIb, very close to, or even within, the white matter. We suggest thus that grafts inserted into the occipital cortex of adult rats receive functional visual inputs through various neuronal circuits. Visual inputs could be conveyed to graft eells by: (i) regenerating axons of geniculate neurons previously innervating the injured cortical site; (ii) formation of collateral branches from thalamic axons ending normally in the host cortex close to the graft boundary; and (iii) development of neuronal processes from cells located in the host cortex, mainly in layers V and VI of the occipital areas. Depending on multiple factors, yet unknown but very likely related to the host-graft integration, the cortical circuits might be either the principal afferent inflow to the graft or only a complement to the thalamic input.
Injury to immature motoneurons results in extensive nerve cell death. Avulsion injury in adult animals has a similar effect. Rescuing injured neurons from degeneration and death is a prerequisite for succesful functional recovery. Here, we have explored the possible survival promoting effect of the immunosuppressant agents FK506 and cyclosporin A, the calcium channel blocker nimodipine as well testosterone on axotomized neonatal facial motoneurons. In addition, we examined the effect of cyclosporin A and Nimodipine, a calcium channel blocker, on survival of adult motoneurons following hypoglossal nerve avulsion. FK506 and cyclosporin A were administered intraperitoneally, testosterone intramuscularly and Nimodipine via the food. After the appropriate postoperative survival periods, the number of surviving facial or hypoglossal motoneurons respectively was calculated. FK506 and Cyclosporin A were found to enhance facial motoneuron survival following neonatal axotomy. Cyclosporin A and Nimodipine were found to promote motoneuron survival in adult rats after hypoglossal nerve avulsion. Nimodipine possibly also reduced motoneuron death in neonatal rats twenty-one days after facial nerve transsection, but failed to rescue motoneurons in neonatal rats during the first seven days after nerve injury. Treatment with testosterone was ineffective in preventing neonatal facial motoneurons from axotomy-induced death at seven days postaxotomy. The restults indicate that motoneuron degeneration can be counteracted to a large extent by immunosuppressant agents as well as by calcium channel blockers. Taken together with findings form previous studies, we conclude that motoneuron survival following axotomy can be promoted by a variety of endogenous and exogenous molecules acting on different cellular mechanisms.
Long-Evans male, adult rats received selective and bilateral lesions of either the hippocampus, subiculum or lateral entorhinal cortex, and were then housed for 30 days in either enriched or standard conditions. Rats were then tested in the eight-arm radial maze to assess spatial working memory and the strategies that were employed (i.e. pattern of arms visited). Lesions of the hippocampus induced both a working-memory impairment and a loss in the use of allocentric strategies to perform the task. Rats with lesions of the subiculum were also impaired but less than hippocampectomized rats and showed a similar pattern of arm visits as control rats. In contrast with other lesioned rats, rats with lateral entorhinal cortex lesions performed the task like control rats. Postoperative enriched housing conditions (EHC) globally enhanced performance of rats, but did not affect the strategies selected by the rats to solve the task. The beneficial effect of EHC was particularly obvious in rats with lesions of the subiculum. In enriched rats with such lesions, performance was not significantly different from that of control rats housed in standard conditions. The present results indicate that 1) the structures within the hippocampal formation are not similarly involved in spatial learning and memory processes and in the management of navigational demands of the radial maze, and 2) enriched conditions may enhance the spared spatial abilities of some lesioned rats thus promoting functional recovery.

To investigate neuronal mechanisms of higher cognitive activity, single neuronal activity has been recorded from the prefrontal cortex of monkeys trained in cognitive tasks. It has been well documented that there are prefrontal neurons which are involved in cognitive operations such as coding the meaning of a stimulus or retaining information in working memory. On the other hand, there are also prefrontal neurons which show reward-related activity changes. Two kinds of reward-related activities are found in the primate prefrontal cortex; one kind is concerned with processing post-trial events such as coding the reinforcement and/or error, and the other is concerned with the expectancy of the specific reward. These reward-related activities, which appear to be involved in motivational operations, are related also to cognitive operations such as coding the context in which the reward is given or omitted, or monitoring the context concerning the task situation with which the animal is faced. It seems that the prefrontal cortex is involved in the integration of cognitive and motivational information for goal-directed behavior. While the function of the prefrontal cortex is often associated with working memory, I introduce the idea that the prefrontal cortex plays important roles for coding, monitoring and providing the context for goal-directed behavior.
Since its discovery in 1982, neuropeptide Y (NPY), a 36 amino-acid member of the pancreatic polypeptide family, has received considerable attention in the field of neuroscience. Originally isolated from porcine brain /86/, NPY is one of the most abundant and widely distributed peptides in the central nervous system. In the brain, NPY is present in the hypothalamus, limbic structures, cerebral cortex, brainstem and striatum /2,71/. Because of the widespread distribution of NPY, it has been implicated in the modulation of a variety of behaviors, including, but not limited to, circadian rhythms /1/, memory retention /33/, feeding /19,56/, sympathetic control of cardiovascular function /89/ and anxiety /42,43/. These functions have been reviewed elsewhere and will not be discussed in great detail here. The present review is intended to provide an overview of recent work implicating a role for NPY in limbic seizures.
The basic tenets of the neurotrophic hypothesis are that i) limiting quantities of a given factor are produced in specific target tissues; ii) responsive neurons projecting to these targets compete for the limiting amounts of the factor; iii) the factor is bound within the target by selective receptors on afferent terminals, internalized, and retrogradely transported to the neuronal cell body where it provides signals affecting neuronal survival and differentiation. Although originally formulated on the basis of evidence for NGF's actions on peripheral sensory and sympathetic neurons, the neurotrophic hypothesis appeared to be upheld for CNS neuronal systems as well, where NGF was found to function primarily as a target-derived trophic factor for basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. With the discovery of additional neurotrophins sharing considerable structural homology with NGF, the question arose of whether the neurotrophic hypothesis held true for all members of this protein family. Recent investigations into the localization and function of neurotrophins other than NGF, particularly BDNF and NT-3, have provided evidence indicating that these molecules may not act in a manner consistent with the neurotrophic hypothesis, as originally postulated. Numerous studies in the peripheral and central nervous systems have now demonstrated that BDNF (and NT-3) may be preferentially trafficked anterogradely along axonal processes and stored within pre-synaptic terminals. Other studies have suggested that these factors may be released in an activity-dependent, rather than constitutive, manner and can act in autocrine or paracrine fashions to subserve an assortment of biological functions including anterograde effects on cell survival and differentiation, as well as more novel roles in synaptic transmission. These recent findings strongly suggest that, while the various neurotrophin proteins may be grouped into a single family based upon their structural homology, they should be considered as a heterogeneous group of trophic factors based upon function and mode of action.
Novelty detection is a fundamental capacity of all mammalian nervous systems /64/. The ability to orient to unexpected events is critical for both survival and normal memory function /82/. The mechanisms whereby the brain detects and responds to novelty have become of increasing interest to neuroscientists. A review is provided of human electrophysiological and blood flow data focused on delineating the neural systems engaged by novelty. Electrophysiological recording of event-related potentials (ERPs) has shown that novel stimuli activate a distributed network involving prefrontal and posterior association cortex as well as the hippocampus /4,23,24,32,33,36,86,88/. Activation of this network facilitates subsequent memory for novel events /27/. Neural modeling provides additional support for a prominent role of novelty in normal memory function /43/. Blood flow studies employing PET and fMRI have also begun to define the neural regions activated by novelty. The blood flow data provide converging evidence on the role of the hippocampus and cortical association regions in the processing of novelty /30,66,75,76/. The results of the behavioral, ERP and blood flow research confirm that a distributed neocortical-limbic circuit is activated by stimulus novelty. These distributed circuits maintain a template of the recent past /74/. Deviations from the template activate a neocortical-limbic network facilitating behavioral response to and memory storage of novel events.


A 57 year-old man presented six months after undergoing renal transplantation with the orbital apex syndrome comprising of retro-orbital pain, visual loss and complete ophthalmoplegia. Pathological examination from the granulomatous-like mass in the apex of the right orbit showed branching hyphae with the characteristic appearance of aspergillus. The differential diagnosis of such a lesion in an immunocompromised patient is discussed.
A method for evaluating the spectral, temporal and combined spectral temporal resolution of hearing is presented; it was used to obtain masked hearing thresholds using the fixed frequency Bky technique. The masking noise was a broadband random noise with a 3 dB/octave roll off (pink noise). Spectral resolution was assessed by introducing a spectral gap in the masking noise centered at the test tone frequency. Temporal resolution was assessed by introducing temporal gaps, the centre of which coincided in time with the centre of the test tone-pulses. The spectral and temporal gaps were used either separately or simultaneously. Release of masking values were calculated from masked hearing thresholds. One test group comprised 16 normal-hearing subjects, a second group 16 elderly (age 55-75 years) subjects with normal hearing for their age. Temporal gaps were 20, 50 and 100 ms long. Spectral gaps had a bandwidth of 1/10, 1/3, and 1 octave. Each gap or combination of gaps was tested at the frequencies 0.5, 1, 2 and 4 kHz. Release of masking increased with increasing temporal or spectral gaps. If a temporal gap and a spectral gap were combined, the release of masking increased further. Maximum release of masking was obtained with the 100 ms temporal gap combined with the 1 octave notch filter. The overall difference in release of masking between the young and elderly normal-hearing group was 2 dB.
Three different non-linear digital signal processing algorithms were developed; LinEar, DynEar and RangeEar. All three provided individual frequency shaping via a seven-band low-power filterbank and compression in two channels. RangeEar and DynEar used wide dynamic range syllabic compression in the low-frequency (LF) channel, while LinEar used compression limiting. In the high-frequency (HF) channel, RangeEar used a slow-acting automatic volume control, while DynEar and LinEar used compression limiting. Wearable digital signal processing-based experimental instruments were used to evaluate the fitting algorithms under real world conditions with experienced hearing aid users. Evaluation included laboratory testing of speech recognition in noise and questionnaires on sound quality ratings. Results did not indicate one general good-for-all algorithm, but different algorithms resulting in preference and performance depending on the hearing loss configuration. Preference for any of the new algorithms could be predicted based on auditory dynamic range measurements. It was hypothesized that the different preferences were affected by different susceptibility to masking of HF sounds by amplified LF sounds.
When central auditory dysfunction is present, ability to understand speech in difficult listening situations can be affected. To study this phenomenon, dichotic speech tests were performed with test material in the Swedish language. Digits, spondees, sentences and consonant-vowel syllables were used as stimuli and the reporting was free or directed. The test material was recorded on CD. The study includes a normal group of 30 people in three different age categories; 11 years, 23-27 years and 67-70 years. It also includes two different groups of subjects with suspected central auditory lesions; 11 children with reading and writing difficulties and 4 adults earlier exposed to organic solvents. The results from the normal group do not show any differences in performance due to age. The children with reading and writing difficulties show a significant deviation for one test with digits and one test with syllables. Three of the four adults exposed to solvents show a significant deviation from the normal group.
This is the first of two studies investigating district nurses' opinions regarding the knowledge, management and nursing documentation of patients with chronic pain conditions, before and after the introduction of 'pain advisers' in one health care region in Stockholm. Seventy (97%) district nurses at 12 selected primary health care centres (PHCCs) answered a questionnaire. The study showed that 85% of the district nurses met patients with chronic pain conditions at least once a week. None of the 12 PHCCs had any written information/policies on pain control. Many district nurses did not perform any individual analysis of the patients' pain and very few used any tool, such as VAS, to assess or evaluate the patients' pain. The district nurses reported insufficient pain documentation. A number of district nurses were dissatisfied with the present management of patients with chronic pain at their PHCCs, their own knowledge of pain control, their own preparedness to meet these patients, their own follow-ups and their own documentation. The study also showed that the district nurses' attitudes to pain and pain control varied, depending on how satisfied they were with their own management of patients with chronic pain conditions.
Schizophrenia, a devastating disease characterized by a combination of various types of disturbed behaviors, thoughts, and feelings, may likewise be heterogeneous in etiology. Recent advances in neuroscience and psychopharmacology have suggested a wide array of competing mechanisms that may be involved in schizophrenia, including but not limited to deficits in one or more neurotransmitters and second messenger systems (e.g., dopamine, serotonin, gamma-aminobutyric acid, glutamate, and noradrenaline), neurodevelopmental defects in brain circuitry, and viral infection. Psychiatric genetic studies indicate that schizophrenia is a disorder with multifactorial inheritance. Since cerebral metabolic activity reflects regional brain work for all neurotransmitter systems, imaging metabolism directly with fluorodeoxyglucose and indirectly with blood flow and hemoglobin oxygen saturation can provide information about the functional neuroanatomy of a deficit in individual patients and allow patients to be grouped into more homogeneous subgroups for intensive study. This review summarizes metabolic imaging studies in schizophrenia over the past decade.
The evidence that schizophrenia may have its origins from early in life, possibly during prenatal brain development, is based primarily on a constellation of nonspecific anatomical findings and on the results of surveys of obstetrical complications and of childhood neurological and psychological adjustment. The developmental processes implicated by this evidence are uncertain, but speculation has centered around abnormalities of neuronal proliferation, migration, and connection formation. These developmental milestones are the results of complicated cellular processes involving molecular interactions between cells and between the extracellular and intracellular milieus. To understand how these abnormalities could relate to schizophrenia, it is necessary to characterize the molecular events that define the processes. In this article, we discuss the potential impact of a number of molecules that are important in the sequence of cellular events implicated in schizophrenia. In particular, we focus on molecular mechanisms related to cell proliferation, axonal outgrowth, cell migration, cell survival, synaptic regression, myelination, and developmental aspects of early adult life. These various candidate molecules regulate different aspects of cell growth and cell-cell interactions and are involved in the regulation of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) expression. Very few of these molecules have been studied in the schizophrenic brain.
In the past decade, there has been increased interest in whether discreet alterations of neural circuitry might play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. In the absence of a readily identifiable histopathology, a variety of sophisticated neurobiological approaches is being applied to the study of this disorder. In one series of investigations, subtle abnormalities have been detected in the anterior cingulate cortex-layer II (ACCx-II) of schizophrenia patients. One of these studies suggested a reduction of nonpyramidal neurons in schizophrenia patients, and it was postulated that this change could give rise to a relative increase of dopaminergic inputs to the remaining gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) cells. Although empiric evidence in support of this hypothesis was obtained, a subsequent post hoc analysis, described in this report, has suggested that this change could have occurred irrespective of whether GABA cells are reduced in number. A shift of cortical dopamine afferents from pyramidal to nonpyramidal neurons in ACCx-II seems to provide a more plausible explanation for such a &quot;miswiring.&quot; These findings support critical use of model generation and testing as powerful tools for unraveling the nature of altered neural circuitry in postmortem schizophrenic brain.
New models of the pathogenesis of schizophrenia are presented. These models represent hypotheses intended to stimulate discussion and new experimentation. Each of the contributions approach the pathophysiology of schizophrenia from a unique perspective. Yet, all of them emphasize the integration of new advances in basic neuroscience, the functional neuroanatomy of schizophrenia, and information drawn from new biotechnologies, such as neuroimaging and molecular genetics, to provide unique insights into schizophrenia. In each case, the novel hypotheses proposed also illustrate the continuing need for a better understanding of the dynamic interaction between synaptic plasticity and neural circuitry to further our understanding of the human brain in health and disease.

Although new disease-altering treatments offer hope for those with multiple sclerosis, they are not appropriate for most. Management of symptoms, however, can help everyone with the disease. Several new therapies, including tizanidine, intrathecal baclofen, botulinum toxin injections, gabapentin, ondansitron, thalamic stimulation, and lamotrigine, increase our treatment options. Better understanding of the sleep disorders that commonly occur in those with multiple sclerosis will help us treat another disabling symptom. This chapter reviews the medical and surgical management of multiple sclerosis symptoms, including these new options.
The cause of multiple sclerosis (MS) remains unknown despite decades of intense research. The major research disciplines that have been brought to bear on this question include genetics, epidemiology, neuropathology, immunology, and virology. Recent advances in the understanding of the inflammatory characteristics of the MS lesion may herald the development of specific and effective treatments. The goal of this research is to improve our management of a disease that remains the major cause of neurologic disability among young adults in North America and Europe.
Gestational exposure to licit drugs of abuse such as alcohol and cigarettes, and illicit drugs of abuse such as marijuana, cocaine, and opiates is the single largest, preventable cause of in utero developmental compromise of infants in the United States today. Clinical and preclinical data suggest that cocaine may act as a behavioral teratogen, a drug capable of altering fetal brain development and subsequent function. Although many children exposed to cocaine in utero have normal development, some subset of infants, especially those who have sustained more significant prenatal exposures, are at risk for developmental compromise. There does not appear to be one outcome, but a spectrum of outcomes, which may relate to individual genetic differences in mothers and infants, to the specifics of the pregnant woman's cocaine habit, as well as to the richness of the postnatal environment. Alterations of arousal and habituation are evident in some cocaine-exposed neonates, especially following greater in utero exposures. Subtle but profoundly important behavioral deficits may persist, as recent data suggests that some cocaine-exposed children may have particular difficulty modulating attention, impulsivity, and responsivity, which are critically challenged in classroom settings. The goals of this article are to present concepts required to better understand cocaine-induced alterations in neuro-development, to outline mechanisms that may underlie such changes, and to discuss the potential clinical consequences of such alterations.
Surgical resection and whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) have been the mainstays of the treatment of cerebral metastases. This approach results in a median survival of about 10 months. Several recent publications and our own experience suggest that a similar median survival can be achieved with stereotactic radiosurgery using either the Leksell Gamma Knife or the linear accelerator radiosurgical techniques. In addition, radiosurgery can effectively treat metastatic tumors in surgically inaccessible sites, e.g., the brainstem. Radiosurgery can also effectively treat multiple intracranial metastases in widely separated areas of the brain. In fact, we have shown that patients with multiple metastases have similar lengths and qualities of survival as do patients with single metastases treated with stereotactic radiosurgery. The most important predictor of success in radiosurgical treatment of cerebral metastases is the neurological status of the patient, usually expressed as the Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS). The histological type of primary cancer is not an outcome predictor. Even so-called &quot;radioresistant&quot; tumors (e.g., melanoma, renal cell) respond favorable to radiosurgery. A great benefit of radiosurgery is the virtual lack of perioperative complications and the minimal interference with quality of life compared either to surgery or to fractionated whole brain radiotherapy. Long-term complications of radiosurgery are infrequent and primarily relate to failure of local tumor control (10%) and radiation-induced edema or necrosis. The later usually can be controlled with corticosteroids, but occasionally, craniotomy may be required to treat life-threatening mass effects. We believe that radiosurgery is the treatment of choice for most cerebral metastases. Only large lesions (&gt; 3.5-4 cm diameter) and those which require immediate decompression to treat life-threatening mass effects require surgical treatment. Radiosurgery also may be used to treat residual disease after surgical resection. We have shown that WBRT does not increase the efficacy of radiosurgery in the treatment of cerebral metastases, and, therefore, we prefer to avoid both the short- and long-term morbidity of that treatment, if possible.
Cellular responses to many extracellular signals occur through phosphorylation or dephosphorylation of intracellular proteins. To determine whether changes in protein phosphorylation accompany the electrophysiological changes occurring during the sleep-waking cycle, immunocytochemical mapping of cells labeled with anti-phosphoserine and anti-phosphothreonine antibodies was performed on brain sections of sleeping and waking rats. Animals implanted for chronic polysomnographic recordings were sacrificed after either 3h of sleep or 3h of sleep deprivation by gentle handling. Anti-phosphoserine and anti-phosphothreonine staining was mainly localized in neurons and was high in some brain regions, such as cerebral cortex and hypothalamus, and low in others, such as the thalamus. In all cases, the number of cells labeled with either antibody in the cerebral cortex was markedly higher in rats sacrificed after 3h of waking than in rats sacrificed after 3h of sleep. Unilateral lesions of the locus coeruleus by local injection of 6-hydroxydopamine were performed in other animals to determine whether the increase in protein phosphorylation during waking was influenced by the activity of the noradrenergic system, which is higher in waking than in sleep. In animals sacrificed after 3h of spontaneous or forced waking, the number of labeled neurons in the cerebral cortex was decreased on the side in which noradrenergic fibers had been lesioned. These results suggest that 1) neurons exist physiologically in different states of phosphorylation, ranging from a state of very high phosphorylation (e.g., in the cerebral cortex) to a state of very low phosphorylation (e.g., in many thalamic nuclei); 2) the fraction of highly phosphorylated neurons in cerebral cortex is higher in waking than in sleep and 3) part of the immunoreactive phosphorylation present in highly labeled cortical neurons is controlled by the locus coeruleus.
Transection of the dorsal spinal column in monkeys has been shown to impair discrimination of the frequency or duration of repetitive tactile stimulation, without recovery over extended periods of postoperative testing. These deficits would be likely to prevent discrimination between textures presented passively and in sequence, if repetitive temporal sequences were distinguishing features of the textures. However, previous investigations of texture discrimination after dorsal column section did not obtain a deficit on tests involving active palpation of sandpaper surfaces. In the present study, rows of raised dots were stroked across the glabrous skin of one foot so that temporal entrainment of neural activity would constitute a prominent cue. The rows were oriented mediolaterally, and the textures moved proximodistally across the skin surface (varying the spacing between the rows). Four monkeys were trained to release a lever when the rougher of two textures was in contact with the skin, and the rough texture was preceded by one to three passes of a smooth texture. Stable levels of preoperative performance ranged from 78.6 to 85.7% correct responses. After interruption of the ipsilateral dorsal column, each monkey was impaired over at least 2 months of testing. One animal did not show evidence of recovery; two recovered partially from the initial deficit; and one returned to preoperative levels of performance after extensive retraining. These results are interpreted in terms of aberrant inhibitory influences which result from repetitive stimulation after a dorsal column lesion.
Little is known about the function and structure of ferret somatosensory cortex. We used anatomical methods and multi-unit recordings to characterize the cytoarchitecture, functional responses and topography of the forepaw representation in ferret somatosensory cortex. The representation of the cutaneous ferret forepaw encompasses approximately the caudal half of the posterior sigmoid gyrus. The posterior sigmoid gyrus and coronal sulcus contain unique cytoarchitectonic fields that conform in large part to earlier descriptions of somatosensory regions in the cat. The cytoarchitectonic regions form mediolateral bands that comprise areas 4, 3a, 3b, 1, and 2 (from rostral to caudal). We studied most extensively areas 3a and 3b for functional responses to somatic stimuli; our data indicate that ferret somatosensory cortex contains at least two representations of the forepaw in these two areas. Our data also suggest that within ferret somatosensory cortex, the morphological and submodality features gradually, rather than abruptly, distinguish themselves as unique cortical fields.
Transection of the dorsal spinal column in monkeys has been previously shown to spare detection, localization and a variety of discriminations between spatial attributes of tactile stimuli. In contrast, performance on certain tests involving stimulus sequences is substantially impaired, such as tactile direction sensitivity and frequency discrimination. The present study extends these findings to show that a repetitive cutaneous stimulus is undetectable following complete interruption of the ipsilateral dorsal column. Macaca arctoides monkeys were trained to discriminate between different durations of 10 Hz indentation of the glabrous skin of one foot. Preoperatively, these animals could discriminate reliably between three pulses (the standard stimulus duration of 200 ms) and comparison trains of six or more pulses (500 ms or more). Following incomplete interruption of the ipsilateral dorsal column of one monkey, discrimination of the duration of stimulation was unimpaired. However, complete lesions of the ipsilateral dorsal column eliminated performance above the criterion of 75% correct responses for approximately 1 year of postoperative testing of three monkeys. Comparison stimuli of as many as 38 pulses (3.7 s) were utilized during postoperative testing. The inability to detect repetitive stimulation is hypothesized to be related to abnormal intracortical inhibition that has been demonstrated to occur within the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) of monkeys after interruption of the contralateral dorsal column.
Surgical interventions have been employed to alleviate symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) for decades, with improving success. One such treatment has been pallidotomy, the lesioning of a portion of the globus pallidus. Early pallidotomy procedures have paved the way for more accurately targeted methods. Technological advancements in imaging and targeting have made modern pallidotomy a safe and well-tested means of treating PD patients that has reliably positive results. Numerous group studies in recent years have demonstrated effective relief of PD symptoms, and the neuroanatomical and physiological aspects which underlie its effects are being elucidated as well. Recent descriptions of pallidotomy as an experimental procedure must therefore be considered in light of these reports. This review will examine the development of the pallidotomy procedure and the neuroanatomical rationale which underlies it, and discuss recent studies of its efficacy in PD patients.
The immediate motor effects of stimulation through electrodes chronically implanted in the globus pallidus internus (GPI) were studied in 9 subjects with Parkinson's disease. Single stimuli (at &gt;0.4 Hz) produced short latency facilitation of voluntarily activated contralateral muscles in all subjects. The latency and distribution of the facilitation, its probably monosynaptic nature, and the short chronaxie and refractory period of the activated neural elements suggest that the facilitation results from the direct excitation of the fast conducting corticospinal pathway. The facilitation of motoneurons followed high frequency (e.g. 200 Hz) stimulation without decrement and occurred at stimulus intensities well below those required to produce a visible muscle contraction. We conclude that, while there may be other effects, GPI stimulation through electrodes may activate the corticospinal tract, even when the stimuli are below the threshold for a visible muscle contraction, and that continuous stimulation may do so continuously. This may be an unwanted side effect, but possible therapeutic actions are considered. The reproducible short latency facilitation enabled us to estimate current spread from the quadripolar electrodes used for deep brain stimulation. When the current is sufficient to excite large myelinated fibers near one of the quadripolar electrodes, an additional 1-mA current will activate similar fibers at an additional distance of 1.8 mm with bipolar stimulation and at a distance of 5.7 mm with monopolar stimulation.
The potential of virtual environments in assessment and training of cognitive function is a more than adequate reason for their application to neurorehabilitation. However, there is a more fundamental justification, and one which is firmly rooted in the neuroscience literature. Over the last half century there has been a wealth of published evidence that enriching the environments of laboratory rats stimulates neuroplastic change in the cerebral cortex, enhances learning and problem solving in normal rats and reduces cognitive impairment in brain damaged rats. Central to all three effects of enrichment are the increased levels of interaction with the physical environment engendered by enrichment. Placing humans who have damaged brains in virtual environments is one way of enhancing their levels of environmental interaction which, because of cognitive impairments and sensory and motor disabilities, is otherwise difficult to achieve. In this chapter we explore the potential of virtual environments as enriched environments within the rehabilitation regime. The underlying assumption, that interaction with a virtual environment is functionally equivalent to interaction with a real environment, is examined. Three lines of relevant evidence are reviewed, neuroimaging studies and psychophysiological studies of people in virtual environments and studies of transfer of training from virtual to real tasks. An agenda for future research in this are is proposed.
Some research projects have begun to test the possibility of using Virtual Environments (VEs) for research in neuroscience, neurosurgery and for the study and rehabilitation of human cognitive and functional activities. In fact, VEs let users navigate and interact with computer-generated 3-D environments in real time, allowing for the control of complex stimulus presentations. VEs enable the neuroscientist to present a wide variety of controlled stimuli and to measure and monitor a wide variety of responses made by the user. This paper highlights recent and ongoing research related to the applications of VEs in the neuroscience arena. In particular it focuses on the European and US applications in this field.
This report describes the three-dimensional imaging and virtual environment technologies developed in NASA's Biocomputation Center for scientific purposes that have now led to applications in the field of medicine. A major goal is to develop a virtual environment surgery workbench for planning complex craniofacial and breast reconstructive surgery, and for training surgeons.
In the middle of the 18th century the leading physiological concepts shift from mechanism to vitalism. The turning point of this change is Albrecht von Haller's Dissertation on the irritable parts (1752/53). The decisive discussion about irritability takes place between strictly empirical Hallerians and their opponents who try to build new medical systems on this property. Hence, the debate is also about experiment and theory. The 'sociology of scientific knowledge' furnishes models and theories that help us to conceive the argumentations and strategies of the leading figures. Thus, we understand why even Haller--the 'founder of modern experimental physiology'--has to allow general conclusions and to support vitalistic interpretations if he wants to succeed with some of his views. Only in its modified form the 'Irritabilitas Halleriana' meets the interest needed for dissemination.

Dementia alters the patient's ability to accept conventional dental treatment and conflict situations arise involving moral dilemmans in judgements and actions. The aim of the study is to disclose how the dentists think, feel and act in such conflict situations and their ethical reasoning. Qualitative methods are used in interpretation of 21 tape-recorded narratives from hospital dentists. In all narratives, the problem emerged from uncertainty about what comprise an appropriate treatment. The ethical dilemma could either be narrated as internal, within the dentist or external between the dentist's opinion and opinions to the contrary from co-actors in the story. In a climate of restraints in public spending in health care a discourse from the perspectives of ethics is essential to ensure respect for human integrity in society, fundamental for all caring, including dental care of patient with dementia.
In this study, we examined the acute anticonvulsant spectrum of (1) dizocilpine (0.03-3 mg/kg), CGS 19755 (1-10 mg/kg), and 7-chlorokynurenic acid (1-100 nmol) (NMDA receptor/ionophore complex antagonists); (2) muscimol (0.1-10 nmol; direct GABA(A) agonist); (3) YM90K (3-10 mg/kg; AMPA receptor antagonist); and (4) diazepam (2 and 5 mg/kg) and carbamazepine (5 and 20 mg/kg), two standard anticonvulsants, using the partially-kindled hippocampal model for epileptic seizures in freely moving rats. The anticonvulsant effect of these compounds were assessed by determining (1) the afterdischarge (AD), which is indicative of the severity of the seizure and related to seizure maintenance, and (2) the pulse number threshold (PNT), which is indicative of the seizure threshold or initiation. In addition, ataxia, a measure of CNS dysfunction, was assessed for each compound. Overall, our results indicated that the anticonvulsant compounds examined could be classified into three categories based on effects on the AD and PNT: (1) elevation of PNT (carbamazepine, dizocilpine, CGS 19755 and 7-chlorokynurenic acid); (2) reduction of AD (diazepam and muscimol); and (3) mixed action, i.e., increased PNT and decreased AD (YM90K). Behavioral data indicated that all compounds, except carbamazepine, produced a dose- or concentration-dependent ataxia. Overall, our results suggest that NMDA receptors play a role in seizure initiation, whereas the GABA(A) receptors appear to be involved in seizure maintenance and AMPA receptors may be involved in both phenomena.
by Steven Pinker, W.W. Norton &amp; Co., 1997. $29.95 (xii+660 pages) ISBN 0 393 04535 8.
Vision is our most powerful sense and, arguably, it gives us our most vivid sensory and imaginal experiences. It is also one of the best understood systems in contemporary neuroscience. Yet, contrary to both traditional assumptions and our phenomenological intuition, recent research has shown that vision is not a monolithic system that creates a single general-purpose representation in the brain. For example, selective brain damage can compromise visuomotor control while leaving perception intact, and damage elsewhere can compromise visual perception while leaving visuomotor control intact. Thus, it is becoming apparent that we have two (largely) separate visual systems. One of them is dedicated to the rapid and accurate guidance of our movements: it is a complex and powerful system, and yet it lies outside the realm of our conscious visual awareness. The other seems to provide our perceptual phenomenology, although its primary purpose is probably to provide suitably coded visual inputs for storage in and retrieval from memory. According to this conceptualization, both systems can be seen as serving our behaviour, but each does so on a different time scale. Recent studies suggest that neuropsychological research in humans can play a central role in bridging the gap between neurobiological studies of the monkey's visual system and the search to narrow down the brain mechanisms that mediate our visual awareness.
Until recently, the predominant model of taste-bud development was one of neural induction: ingrowing sensory fibers were thought to induce taste-bud differentiation late in embryonic development. Recent experimental studies, however, show that the development of taste buds is independent of their innervation. In amphibian embryos, the ability to generate taste buds is an intrinsic feature of the oropharyngeal epithelium long before the region becomes innervated. These studies indicate that patterning of the oropharyngeal epithelium occurs during gastrulation, and suggest that taste buds or their progenitors play the dominant role in the development of their own innervation.
Immunophilins, protein receptors for immunosuppressant drugs such as cyclosporin A and FK506, are enriched far more in the brain than in the immune system. Drug-immunophilin complexes bind to calcineurin, inhibiting its phosphatase activity and leading to immunosuppressant effects. The immunophilin FKBP-12 (FK506 binding protein, 12 kDa) forms a complex with the ryanodine and inositol (1,4,5) trisphosphate (IP3) receptors to regulate their physiological release of intracellular Ca2+. Here, Solomon Snyder and colleagues describe how non-immunosuppressant as well as immunosuppressant immunophilin ligands are neurotrophic for numerous classes of damaged neurones, both in culture systems and intact animals. Their ability to stimulate functional regrowth of damaged sciatic, cortical cholinergic, dopamine and 5-HT neurones may have therapeutic relevance.
The study engaged a total population of 16-17-year-old urban high-school students and 2300 (93%) were screened for depression and previous suicide attempts. Adolescents with high depression scores in self-evaluation (12.3%) or reporting previous suicide attempts (2.4%) were diagnostically interviewed together with one control for each, matched for gender and educational program. After the interview self-ratings were completed regarding social network, family climate, and life events. Major depression was prevalent during the last year in 5.8% and during life time in 11.4%, 4 girls for every boy. A depression with remaining symptoms for a year or more was the most common type. Dysthymia without major depressive episodes was diagnosed in 1.1%, two girls for every boy. Short hypomanic episodes had been experienced by 13.2% of those with major depressive disorder. Anxiety disorder was comorbid to depression in one half and conduct disorder in one forth of the depressed adolescents. Alcohol was abused by 6.5% and used regularly by another 12%. Other drugs were used by 6.5% of depressed adolescents and not at all by controls. The depressed used tobacco twice as frequently as non-depressed. Social network and family climate were compared within the originally matched pairs. Adolescents with long-lasting depressions had a smaller and unsatisfying social network. They also had experienced many stressful life events related to family adversities, while those with shorter depressive episodes had stress related to the peer group. Depressed adolescents with comorbid conduct disorder reported insufficient support from the close network and a more negative family climate.
Mechanical properties of ureters from rats with infravesical urinary outflow obstruction were studied in vitro. Urinary outflow obstruction was created by partial ligation of the urethra in female rats. After 10 days a marked hypertrophy of the urinary bladder and a dilatation of the ureters were observed. Proximal and distal segments of the ureters from these animals were isolated and mounted in a wire myograph for force registration. Comparisons were made with ureters from control rats. The ureters from the rats with urinary outflow obstruction exhibited a large increase in lumen diameter and an unchanged thickness of the muscle layer. These data suggest that the dilatation of the ureters is associated with growth of the smooth muscle in the wall. All ureter preparations were relaxed in normal physiological salt solution. When the extracellular K+ concentration was increased to 20 mM the dilated ureters became spontaneously active. At [K+] in the range 20-40 mM in the presence of noradrenaline (10(-5) M) all ureters exhibited high-frequency spontaneous contractions. The dilated ureters had a lower frequency of spontaneous contractions and a higher force. The results show a pronounced remodelling of the ureter wall following infravesical outlet obstruction. The structural changes were associated with alterations in the contraction pattern of the preparations, most probably reflecting changes in the excitation-contraction coupling of the growing cells.
Within 10 minutes of intraperitoneal injection of penitrem A (3 mg/kg), rats develop severe generalized tremors and ataxia that persist for up to 48 hours. These are accompanied by a three- to fourfold increase in cerebellar cortical blood flow. Mitochondrial swelling occurs in cerebellar stellate and basket cells within 30 minutes of dosing and persists for more than 12 hours without leading to cell death. From 2 hours, Purkinje cell dendrites show early cytoplasmic condensation accompanied by fine vacuolation of smooth endoplasmic reticulum and enlargement of perikaryal mitochondria. From 6 hours, many Purkinje cells develop intense cytoplasmic condensation with eosinophilia that resembles &quot;ischemic cell change,&quot; and from 12 hours, many other Purkinje cells show marked watery swelling. Astrocytes begin to swell from 0.5 hours after injection and show hypertrophy of organelles from 6 hours. Also from 6 hours onward, discrete foci of necrosis appear in the granule cell layer, while permeability of overlying meningeal vessels to horseradish peroxidase becomes evident at 8 hours. All changes are more severe in vermis and paravermis. Despite widespread loss of Purkinje cells, the animals' behavior becomes almost normal within a week. While tremor occurs with doses of 1.5 and 0.5 mg/kg, cellular damage is minimal. The tremor mechanism differs from that of harmaline since destruction of inferior olivary nuclei abolishes neither the tremor response to penitrem A nor the cellular damage. No morphological changes are found in other brain regions. The affinities of penitrem A for high-conductance calcium-dependent potassium channels and for gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors with the probability of resultant excitotoxity are considered to be important underlying factors for these changes.
We have utilized an associative conditioning paradigm to induce changes in the receptive field (RF) properties of neurons in the adult cat striate cortex. During conditioning, the presentation of particular visual stimuli were repeatedly paired with the iontophoretic application of either GABA or glutamate to control postsynaptic firing rates. Similar paradigms have been used in kitten visual cortex to alter RF properties (Fregnac et al., 1988, 1992; Greuel et al., 1988; Shulz &amp; Fregnac, 1992). Roughly half of the cells that were subjected to conditioning with stimuli differing in orientation were found to have orientation tuning curves that were significantly altered. In general, the modification in orientation tuning was not accompanied by a shift in preferred orientation, but rather, responsiveness to stimuli at or near the positively reinforced orientation was increased relative to controls, and responsiveness to stimuli at or near the negatively reinforced orientation was decreased relative to controls. A similar proportion of cells that were subjected to conditioning with stimuli differing in spatial phase were found to have spatial-phase tuning curves that were significantly modified. Conditioning stimuli typically differed by 90 deg in spatial phase, but modifications in spatial-phase angle were generally 30-40 deg. An interesting phenomenon we encountered was that during conditioning, cells often developed a modulated response to counterphased grating stimuli presented at the null spatial phase. We present an example of a simple cell for which the shift in preferred spatial phase measured with counterphased grating stimuli was comparable to the shift in spatial phase computed from a one-dimensional Gabor fit of the space-time RF profile. One of ten cells tested had a significant change in direction selectivity following associative conditioning. The specific and predictable modifications of RF properties induced by our associative conditioning procedure demonstrate the ability of mature visual cortical neurons to alter their integrative properties. Our results lend further support to models of synaptic plasticity where temporal correlations between presynaptic and postsynaptic activity levels control the efficiency of transmission at existing synapses, and to the idea that the mature visual cortex is, in some sense, dynamically organized.
The phosphoinositide (PI) intracellular signaling pathway, which triggers Ca2+ release from intracellular stores, appears to be a central feature of phototransduction in most invertebrate species studied. Procedures designed to inhibit PI-pathway reactions cause suppression of excitation to dim lights. However, in Limulus photoreceptors, responses to bright stimuli are in fact enhanced by some of these procedures, suggesting that PI metabolism is not obligatory for light-induced excitation. Other studies, however, suggest that Ca2+ release is obligatory for excitation. We studied this issue by examining the effects of PI-pathway inhibitor, Li+, on electrophysiological responses to light in Limulus photoreceptors. Li+ is reported to cause depletion of intracellular PI-pathway intermediate, inositol; and it offers the pharmacological advantage that its block can be bypassed by introducing exogenous inositol. Introduction of Li+ caused a very slowly developing but complete suppression of responses to dim stimuli. In contrast, Li+ caused a rapidly developing but partial suppression of responses to bright stimuli. Li(+)-induced suppression was reversed by exogenous introduction of inositol. In addition, inositol prevented Li(+)-induced suppression of excitation. Li+ enhanced light adaptation (light-induced desensitization) but slowed response deactivation, indicating a difference in the processes underlying these phenomena. Li+ slowed dark adaptation, the recovery of sensitivity following light adaptation. All of these effects were prevented or rescued by extracellularly applied inositol, suggesting the presence of a transmembrane inositol transport system. The overall results suggest that PI-dependent signaling is central and obligatory for excitation in Limulus, at least for responses to dim to moderate illumination. The failure of Li+ to suppress bright light-induced excitation completely may be due to a failure of Li+ to block PI metabolism completely, as in other systems; however, it may point to a parallel, PI-independent excitation pathway possessing very low light sensitivity when PI metabolism is inhibited.
We studied the GABA sensitivity of horizontal cells in the isolated goldfish retina. After the glutamatergic input to the horizontal cells was blocked with DNQX, GABA depolarized the monophasic and biphasic horizontal cells. The pharmacology of these GABA-induced depolarizations was tested with the GABA receptor antagonists bicuculline-methiodide and picrotoxin, the GABA transporter agonist nipecotic acid, and the GABA transporter antagonist SKF 89976-A. The GABA-induced responses of monophasic horizontal cells consisted of two components; one with characteristics of GABA-gated chloride channels, and one with characteristics of GABA transporters. In biphasic horizontal cells, we only found evidence for GABA-gated chloride channels. The results show that monophasic horizontal cells in goldfish contain the two components of a positive feedback loop (GABA transporters and GABA-gated chloride channels), as described in salamander. Furthermore, our results indicate that the monophasic horizontal cells may project directly to the biphasic horizontal cells, via an excitatory GABAergic pathway. We propose that the function of these GABAergic systems in horizontal cells is to abolish cone dominance in bipolar cells surround in the dark-adapted retina.
American scientist of Polish origin, won the Nobel Prize in the field of physiology and medicine. In this way he became one of three Polish Nobel Prize winners in the scientific field (among M. Skodowska-Curie and Tadeusz Reichstein). On the 20th anniversary of this historic moment I describe his life, scientific activity and achievements.
Fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is a frequent pain disorder in women. The pathophysiologic mechanism behind this disorder is still unexplained; however, alterations in both monoamines, neuropeptides and in the stress axis have been found. This study was designed to determine the levels of the newly discovered neuropeptide nociceptin in hormonally different FMS patients and corresponding controls. The results showed that the nociceptin concentrations of the patients were lower than in controls. It also showed decreased levels with significant differences between the cyclic patients in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, compared to the corresponding controls. Our results suggest that the perturbed nociceptin concentrations of the FMS patients may be linked to both the sex hormones and to the stress system and that these changes might be one of several possible pathophysiologic mechanisms involved in the FMS.
The paper presents the results of clinical and neurophysiologic study of muscular tonus in 94 patients aged 42-70 years in early recovery after ischemic stroke. Selective role of spasticity was estimated in clinical pattern of motor disorders in groups of the patients with different disorders of muscular tonus with the same degree of paresis. Efficiency of antispastic preparation sirdalud was analyzed in 28 patients from this group. Sirdalud in daily dose of 6-12 mg in patients with prevalence of a spasticity in a clinical picture of the paresis and with either moderate or manifested degree of paresis of the extremities has significant antispastic effect without any decrease of muscular strength, which, in turn, increases the degree of restoration of motor functions.
Peculiarities of cognitive process were studied in 34 right-handed endogenously depressed patients with &quot;juvenile asthenic deficiency&quot; (&quot;endogener juveniler Versagensyndrome&quot; according to J. Glatzel and G Huber, 1968) by means of visual evoked potentials (EP) in the emotional recognition task. Two control groups consisted of 19 healthy individuals and 20 patients with other types of depressions. The main and control groups were matched for age, sex, handedness and education level. Compared to controls the patients with &quot;juvenile asthenic deficiency&quot; demonstrated highly significant alterations in indices of EP late negative wave in anterior areas of the left hemisphere which related to neither the nosology of &quot;juvenile asthenic deficiency&quot; (cyclothymia, schizophrenia) nor the types of dominant cognitive disorders. Dependence on both nosology and clinical subtype of asthenic deficiency was found only for separate characteristics of earlier EP waves. The results suggest the disturbance of the final stages of information processing and the decision making specific for &quot;juvenile asthenic deficiency&quot;.

Acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA) hydrolyzes alpha-1, 4 and alpha-1, 6 glucosidic linkages of oligosaccharides and degrades glycogen in the lysosomes. The full-length GAA I cDNA, pQAM8, was isolated from a cDNA library derived from Japanese quail liver. The cDNA is 3569 base pairs long and has an open reading frame capable of coding 932 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence shares 52% identity with human GAA. Transfection of expression vector pETAM8 into COS-7 cells or acid maltase deficient (AMD) quail embryonic fibroblasts increased the level of GAA 20-50-fold. Compared to normal quail, the levels of GAA I mRNA were significantly reduced in the muscle, liver, heart, and brain of AMD quails, suggesting the GAA deficiency in AMD quail is due to a lack of GAA I mRNA. A second GAA II cDNA was identified after probing the cDNA library from the ovarian large follicles of quails with a PCR product derived from cultured quail skin fibroblasts. This clone having 3.1 kb insert, has GAA activity as well (3 to 10 fold increase). This cDNA, designated GAA II, predicted an 873 amino acid polypeptide showing 63% identity to human GAA and 51% identity to the GAA I. The RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that GAA II mRNAs were barely detectable in normal tissues, while they were enhanced to higher levels in AMD tissues. These results suggest that GAA II expression is up-regulated at the transcription levels, and quail GAA gene redundancy performs the same function of satisfying GAA demand at the two different phases represented by normal and AMD.
The amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene promoter contains a heat shock element. An abnormal APP heat shock response could increase accumulation of A beta, the APP metabolite found in Alzheimer's disease amyloid plaques. Since A beta production is affected by presenilin-1 (PS-1) mutations, we investigated whether basal APP levels or response to heat shock were altered in lymphoblastoid cell lines from 8 PS-1 mutation-bearers and 9 control members of Alzheimer's disease families. Lymphoblastoid cell lines were incubated at 42 degrees C for 35 min and allowed to recover at 37 degrees C for 1, 3, 8, 24 and 48 h. APP mRNA levels, quantified using RNA-RNA solution hybridisation, increased significantly at 1 and 3 h post-heat shock to between 123% and 163% of pre-heat shock (0 h) levels and returned to normal by 8 h. Semi-quantitative Western immunoblotting of cell lysates using the 22C11 antibody detected two major bands, migrating at approximately 145 and approximately 120 kDa. Band optical densities increased significantly at 3 h to approximately 155% of 0 h levels, following the increase in APP mRNA levels and showing a similar reversibility. APP mRNA and protein responses were comparable in the PS-1 mutation-bearing and control cell lines. This study shows that both APP mRNA and protein are induced in lymphoblastoid cell lines following heat shock and that this response is not affected by PS-1 mutations which are pathogenic for Alzheimer's disease.
Although much progress has been made in identifying genetic defects associated with mitochondrial diseases, the protein expression patterns of most disorders are poorly understood. Here we use immunochemical techniques to describe subunit expression patterns of respiratory chain enzyme complexes II (succinate dehydrogenase: SD) and IV (cytochrome c oxidase: COX) in cultured cells lacking mtDNA (Rho0 cells) derived either chemically by exposure of normal cells to ethidium bromide, or genetically in cells derived from a patient with mtDNA depletion syndrome. Both control cells and early passage patient-derived cells express a normal complement of SD and COX subunit proteins. Ethidium bromide treatment of normal cells and in vitro cell proliferation of patient-derived cells caused both populations to acquire identical Rho0 phenotypes. As expected, they lack mtDNA-encoded subunits COX-I and COX-II. In contrast, nDNA-encoded subunits are affected differentially, with some (COX-VIc) lacking and others (COX-IV, COX-Va, SD 30 and SD 70) maintained at somewhat reduced levels. We suggest that the differential stability of nDNA-encoded subunits in the absence of intact enzyme complexes is due to the ability of some, but not all, subunits to associate as partial complexes in the absence of mtDNA-encoded subunits.
The pattern of playful defense used during play fighting by male rats (Rattus norvegicus) castrated at birth was compared to that of sham-operated and untreated controls during the juvenile phase and after puberty. The neonatal castrates failed to exhibit the age-related changes in playful defense present in intact male rats of the same age. Following puberty, control rats, but not neonatal castrates, switched from juvenile to more adult-typical defensive tactics. That the neonatal castrations were effective was independently shown by the animals' failure to exhibit the asymmetries in weight and play behavior indicative of dominance-subordinance relationships present in normal adult males. A previous study found that castration following weaning did not prevent the pubertal change in playful defense, but did block the formation of dominance-subordinance relationships. Therefore, it appears that the age-related shift in playful defense is a feature of the development of play fighting in males that is likely preprogrammed by gonadal hormone exposure in the perinatal period.
We describe an improved method for the investigation of time-dependent intracellular events giving rise to long-lasting changes in synaptic efficacy. A new interface chamber for the simultaneous superfusion of approximately 30 rat hippocampal slices was designed. The slice chamber contains an upper and a lower medium reservoir connected by a grooved incubation platform which is mounted at an angle of 7 degrees on a thermoregulation unit. Surface slices placed in the chamber are perfused with oxygenated medium at a rate of 1 ml/min and are maintained synaptically viable for at least 6 h. At different time points after induction of long-term potentiation by stimulation of the Schaffer collateral pathway, slices were either fixed in Zamboni's fixative or the CA1 region was excised and lysed in boiling SDS-sample buffer. Fixed 400 microm hippocampal slices were cut into 30 microm sections and immunocytochemically stained with an anti-serine 133 phosphorylated cAMP-responsive element binding protein (pCREB) antibody. Binding of primary antibody was detected with the avidin-biotinylated peroxidase complex method and enhanced using peroxidase-catalyzed deposition of biotinylated tyramine. Staining was visualized with streptavidin-cyanine 3.18 and observed under a confocal laser scanning microscope. CA1 lysates were electrophoresed and subjected to Western blot analysis. Both pCREB immunocytochemical staining and Western blotting showed that CREB is rapidly and transiently phosphorylated after induction of long-term potentiation. pCREB levels peaked within 30 min and declined back to control after 60 min. Immunocytochemistry also showed that pCREB was localized to the nuclei of CA1 pyramidal cells near the tetanization site.
A method for generating olfactory stimuli for humans within a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experimental design is described. The system incorporates a nasal-mask in which the change from odorant to no-odorant conditions occurs in less than 500 ms and is not accompanied by visual, auditory, tactile, or thermal cues. The mask provides an ordorant-free environment following prolonged ordorant presence. Specific imaging parameters that are conducive to the study of the human olfactory system are described. In a pilot study performed using these methods, the specific patterns of activation observed converged with published experimental and clinical findings.
A novel dynamic mathematical microelectrode model (a model of solvent and solute kinetics in electrolyte-filled microelectrodes) was deduced from experimental observations made on standard (single-barrelled, 3.0 M KCl-filled, approximately 10 M[ohm]) electrodes using (a) electrodiffusion, electro-osmosis, and continuity equations that were placed into the constraints of electrode geometry, and (b) handbook/textbook parameter values, only. The model proved to be able to faithfully reproduce all observed electrochemical and electrical electrode properties, i.e. even those that constituted no part of the model's experimental basis. In theoretical tests, the model shows, for the standard electrode that (a) inside the electrode, any profiles in electrical potential and electrolyte concentration are occurring at the most distal part (approximately 50 microm) of the tip region, (b) asymmetrical shifts in electrolyte concentration just inside the electrode tip opening are the true cause of the electrode's current rectification, and (c) strong transelectrode currents are producing water flows across the electrode orifice that may affect the volume of smaller and medium-sized cells. In further tests, the model shows, among other things, for non-standard electrodes that (a) decreasing the electrode electrolyte concentration will give rise to marked decreases in electrolyte leakage from the electrode, but only very minor changes in tip potential, and (b) increasing the surface charge of the electrode glass (increases in zeta potential) and/or decreasing the electrode electrolyte concentration will produce increases in electro-osmotic water transport, which may be desirable for the intracellular injection of water-soluble (electro-neutral) substances.
The electrochemical and electrical properties of geometrically defined electrolyte-filled microelectrodes were studied at various transelectrode current passages, using radiotracer (38Cl and 42K) and electrical techniques. Geometrically, the electrodes were defined by their tip properties that, for standard (single-barrelled, 3.0 M KCl-filled, approximately 10 M[ohm]) electrodes implied a tip opening radius of 0.135 microm and a tip taper of 0.0215 microm/microm in the most distal (0-150 microm), and of 0.0105 microm/microm in the next most distal (150-1000 microm) tip regions. From the radiotracer studies it followed that (a) in the absence of transelectrode current passage, K+ and Cl- are leaking from the electrode tip in amounts corresponding to currents of +/- 3.8 nA, and (b) in the presence of transelectrode current passage, the flow of K+ and Cl- through the electrode tip changes with the transelectrode current in a statistically linear fashion so that K+ carries about 80% and Cl- about 20% of any electrode-injected current. From the electrical measurements it appeared that the standard electrodes are characterized by (a) a tip potential of -2.6 mV, and (b) a resistance that changes from an instantaneous, non-rectifying type to a steady state, outwardly rectifying type, within tenths of a second of constant current flow. The outward current rectification was seen to be reduced by raising [KCl] in the immersing solution, or by lowering it in the filling solution. Together, the observed electrode properties are consistent with the electrode electrolyte's solute and solvent turnover being governed by electro-osmotic as well as by electrodiffusion laws.
Considerable progress has been made in the study of neurobiological correlates of suicidal behavior. These studies have confirmed the link between reduced serotonergic function and serious suicidal acts. They have localized the changes to the ventral prefrontal cortex and suggested how genetics, childhood rearing, alcoholism, substance abuse, gender, age, and cholesterol intake can modulate suicide rates through effects on the serotonergic system. Future studies need to apply this knowledge in the development of in vivo brain imaging and molecular genetic probes for study of high-risk patients. Identification of high-risk groups is essential for the conduct of controlled treatment trials, which are presently almost entirely lacking in suicidal populations. Previous clinical trials of medications and psychotherapies have targeted axis I or axis II disorders but not the predisposition to suicidal acts. Controlled treatment in high-risk patients must be undertaken to identify interventions that can reduce the propensity for suicidal acts. Such interventions will supplement current treatment strategies that target the associated psychiatric illness and reduce the opportunities to attempt suicide in high-risk patients by hospitalization.
Alterations in serotonergic and noradrenergic receptor binding in membrane homogenates from the brain of suicide victims suggest a biological substrate for the vulnerability to commit suicide. We and others have employed high-resolution quantitative autoradiography of full coronal sections of the prefrontal cortex to map the locus of maximal change in receptor binding. We found alterations in binding to the serotonin transporter, the 5-HT1A, and the 5-HT2A receptors primarily in the ventral and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex of suicide victims. Importantly, these changes are often modest in magnitude and anatomically restricted to one or two Brodmann areas. Furthermore, we have found that care in case selection is essential, because sex, age, drugs, and comorbid diagnoses contribute to receptor binding. The implications for in vivo imaging are considerable, directing the focus of such studies toward the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. However, because ligands are limited, as is the resolution of current methods, including PET, automated analyses that produce statistical images, rather than manual selection of individual slices, will likely lack the ability to detect the discrete receptor changes found postmortem. Alternatively, the advantages of examining large numbers of subjects, imaging the entire brain, obtaining detailed clinical information in the living patient, and magnifying the changes with neuropharmacological challenges present a promising outlook for making major advances into the identification of brain abnormalities associated with suicide risk.
Studies of neurotransmitter metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were initially focused on depressive illness. Although several studies have demonstrated low concentrations of the serotonin metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), and the dopamine metabolite, homovanillic acid (HVA), in depressed patients, these early studies may have been biased by concomitant administration of antidepressant drugs (which tend to lower CSF 5-HIAA), amount of CSF drawn (there is a concentration gradient for both metabolites), and selection of control subjects. Once these methodological details are controlled for, the differences between depressed patients and controls are unimpressive. However, there is a remarkably consistent association between low concentrations of CSF 5-HIAA and suicidal behavior, as evidenced by over 20 studies. The association is not confined to depressive illness but has also been found in schizophrenia, personality disorder, and certain impulse control disorders (but, interestingly, not in bipolar disorder). A low concentration of CSF 5-HIAA in a suicide attempter is associated with a substantial increase in short-term suicide risk. CSF studies in violent criminals, and in nonhuman primates, suggest that aggression dyscontrol may partly explain the association between suicide and serotonin, which is of considerable theoretical interest. CSF 5-HIAA determinations may also be helpful in the clinical assessment of suicide risk.
Disturbances in the serotonin (5-HT) system is the neurobiological abnormality most consistently associated with suicide. Hyperactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is also described in suicide victims. The HPA axis is the classical neuroendocrine system that responds to stress and whose final product, corticosteroids, targets components of the limbic system, particularly the hippocampus. We will review results from animal studies that point to the possibility that many of the 5-HT receptor changes observed in suicide brains may be a result of, or may be worsened by, the HPA overactivity that may be present in some suicide victims. The results of these studies can be summarized as follows: (1) chronic unpredictable stress produces high corticosteroid levels in rats; (2) chronic stress also results in changes in specific 5-HT receptors (increases in cortical 5-HT2A and decreases in hipocampal 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B); (3) chronic antidepressant administration prevents many of the 5-HT receptor changes observed after stress; and (4) chronic antidepressant administration reverses the overactivity of the HPA axis. If indeed 5-HT receptors have a partial role in controlling affective states, then their modulation by corticosteroids provides a potential mechanism by which these hormones may regulate mood. These data may also provide a biological understanding of how stressful events may increase the risk for suicide in vulnerable individuals and may help us elucidate the neurobiological underpinnings of treatment resistance.
Although the concept of impulsivity has proved useful in human and animal studies of addiction, violent aggression, and violent suicide, and has been recognized as an important component of human behavior, little research has been done to understand the underlying psychobiological mechanisms. We explore the concept of impulsivity and its relation with the neurotransmitter serotonin in the context of aggressive behavior and behavior associated with positive reinforcement using a knockout mouse that lacks one of the serotonin receptors, the 5-HT1B receptor. This knockout mouse shows more impulsive aggression, acquires cocaine self-administration faster, and drinks more alcohol than the corresponding wild-type control. We show that the impulsive characteristics of these mice are not due to change in cognitive functions: in a cognitive task involving a choice between a small immediate one and a larger more delayed reward, knockout mice showed intact choice and timing capabilities and good discrimination of reward amounts. Thus, this mouse may prove an animal model of addiction and motor impulsivity.
The objective of this report is to critically review past reports and present new data on the psychobiology of self-injurious behavior (SIB) and/or &quot;risky&quot; or &quot;impulsive&quot; behavior in primates (human and nonhuman). One aim was to reexamine how early social deprivation and neurobiological changes caused by deprivation might contribute to SIB in monkeys, and how the causes of SIB in monkeys might inform us about the psychobiology of suicide in humans. A second aim was to examine the evidence that social deprivation in monkeys produces reductions in brain 5-HT system function that are causal or coincident factors associated with self-injurious or impulsive behavior. Prior studies and new data indicate that the environmental causes of SIB and unusual aggression in rhesus monkeys do not produce reductions in brain 5-HT system activity and that experimental production of low levels of brain 5-HT system activity does not reliably promote either SIB or unusual other-directed aggression in monkeys. A third and final aim was to suggest that in severe cases of environmentally induced SIB and/or aggression in monkeys, having relatively high or low levels of 5-HT system activity may not be related to ongoing behavior because the 5-HT system may not interact with other neurotransmitter systems in the usual way. Overall, the contention is that primates exhibiting SIB and unusual aggression may have altered 5-HT system function, but this may be but one aspect of a more profound disorganization of brain function involving many neurohormonal and transmitter systems. Contemporary theorizing and experimentation tends to be restricted to the idea that altered function in one key system might be the cause of a specific form of psychopathology. In the future, research examining the probable change interactions of neurotransmitter and neuroendocrine systems as underlying causes of behavioral disorders should have a high priority.

Morphological and electrophysiological techniques were used to characterize a diencephalic projection from the ventral thalamus to reticulospinal neurons and its role in initiating rhythmic locomotor activity in the spinal cord of adult lampreys (Lampetra fluviatilis). Injection of fluorescein-coupled dextran amine (FDA) into the rhombencephalic reticular nuclei labeled neurons in the ventral thalamus region on both the ipsilateral side and the contralateral side. Injection of FDA into the ventral thalamus labeled axonal projections in all reticular nuclei, but no direct projections were found to the spinal cord. Extracellular stimulation of the ventral thalamus elicited monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), polysynaptic EPSPs, and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in reticulospinal neurons in the posterior (prrn) and middle (mrrn) rhombencephalic reticular nuclei. The monosynaptic EPSPs were blocked by the glutamate antagonist kynurenic acid and can be considered glutamatergic. The monosynaptic EPSPs were potentiated (up to 12 minutes) following a brief high-frequency stimulation. Stimulation of the ventral thalamus induced rhythmic firing of reticulospinal neurons and elicited rhythmic burst activity in the spinal ventral roots. The projections from the ventral thalamus to the reticulospinal neurons in the prrn and mrrn thus provide excitatory inputs to the reticulospinal neurons, which, in turn, can activate the spinal circuits underlying locomotion. Also, the input nuclei to the ventral thalamus were labeled following injection of FDA into this nucleus. Labeled cells were found in the olfactory bulb, pallial areas, striatum, preoptic nucleus, hypothalamus, dorsal thalamus, optic tectum, and dorsal isthmic gray. The ventral thalamus, therefore, receives inputs from several different regions in the brain and controls the level of excitability in reticulospinal neurons.
The brains of individuals, who are cognitively normal, show age-related changes that include an overall reduction in brain volume and weight, which are associated with gyral atrophy and widening of the sulci of the cerebral cortex, and enlargement of the brain ventricles. These changes are partly the result of nerve cell loss but accurate estimates of neuronal loss are notoriously difficult to make. Microscopically, there are increasing amounts of the age-related pigment, lipofuscin, granulovacuolar degeneration in neurones, Hirano bodies, variable amounts of diffuse deposits of beta-amyloid in the parenchyma, the presence of neurofibrillary tangles mainly confined to the hippocampus and amygdala, and sparse numbers of senile plaques in these brain regions and also in other cortical areas. Of these changes, neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques are the neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease in which they are more abundant and widespread. Alzheimer's disease has therefore been regarded as accelerated brain ageing; however, the realization that there is a strong genetic contribution to developing the disease at least implies that it may not be the inevitable, even if frequent, consequence of old age. Understanding the molecular basis of plaque and tangle formation is advancing greatly and is the main focus of research into the cellular and molecular changes observed in the ageing brain.
In the neurotrophin family, variable regions contain solvent-accessible residues important for receptor binding specificity, whereas many of the conserved residues are buried in hydrophobic cores or in the dimer interface. A stretch of six amino acids (from Asp-72 to Asn-77) in nerve growth factor (NGF) represents an exception to this general rule. These residues are highly conserved and yet form an exposed hydrophilic loop region away from other known determinants of receptor binding. We have investigated the functional importance of this region in NGF using alanine-scanning mutagenesis. Individual mutation of Asp-72, Lys-74, or His-75 to alanine (mutants D72A, K74A, and H75A, respectively) reduced the binding affinity for the p75 neurotrophin receptor by 4-10-fold. Only the D72A mutant showed an additional impairment in binding to the TrkA receptor, which was accompanied by reduced biological activity in PC12 cells, indicating a structural and/or conformational effect of this mutation. Replacement of Ser-73 or Asn-77 with alanine (mutants S73A and N77A, respectively) had no measurable effects on receptor binding. The triple mutant K74A/H75A/N77A exhibited properties that were consistent with the combined effects of the individual mutations, namely impaired binding to p75 without deficits in its interaction with TrkA. In contrast, in the triple mutant D72A/S73A/K74A, the simultaneous replacement of Asp-72 and Lys-74 with alanine had a compensatory effect such that binding to both p75 and TrkA was comparable to that of wild-type NGF, despite the deficits seen in the individual replacements. This molecule, however, was produced at low levels, and its biological activity in sympathetic ganglion explants was reduced, which, together with results from TrkA phosphorylation assays, indicated a reduced stability during prolonged culture conditions. Taken together, these data reveal a second region of interaction with the p75 receptor in NGF with the positively charged residues Lys-74 and His-75 as candidate points of contact. In addition, Asp-72 appears to be a structurally important side chain for stabilizing the conformation of the loop through interactions with neighboring residues.
The L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels that control tonic release of neurotransmitter from hair cells exhibit unusual electrophysiological properties: a low activation threshold, rapid activation and deactivation, and a lack of Ca2+-dependent inactivation. We have inquired whether these characteristics result from cell-specific splicing of the mRNA for the L-type alpha1D subunit that predominates in hair cells of the chicken's cochlea. The alpha1D subunit in hair cells contains three uncommon exons: one encoding a 26-aa insert in the cytoplasmic loop between repeats I and II, an alternative exon for transmembrane segment IIIS2, and a heretofore undescribed exon specifying a 10-aa insert in the cytoplasmic loop between segments IVS2 and IVS3. We propose that the alternative splicing of the alpha1D mRNA contributes to the unusual behavior of the hair cell's voltage-gated Ca2+ channels.
The voltage-gated Ca2+ channels that effect tonic release of neurotransmitter from hair cells have unusual pharmacological properties: unlike most presynaptic Ca2+ channels, they are sensitive to dihydropyridines and therefore are L-type. To characterize these Ca2+ channels, we investigated the expression of L-type alpha1 subunits in hair cells of the chicken's cochlea. In PCRs with five different pairs of degenerate primers, we always obtained alpha1D products, but only once an alpha1C product and never an alpha1S product. A full-length alpha1D mRNA sequence was assembled from overlapping PCR products; the predicted amino acid sequence of the alpha1D subunit was about 90% identical to those of the mammalian alpha1D subunits. In situ hybridization confirmed that the alpha1D mRNA is present in hair cells. By using a quantitative PCR assay, we determined that the alpha1D mRNA is 100-500 times more abundant than the alpha1C mRNA. We conclude that most, if not all, voltage-gated Ca2+ channels in hair cells contain an alpha1D subunit. Furthermore, we propose that the alpha1D subunit plays a hitherto undocumented role at tonic synapses.
During metamorphosis, ranid frogs shift from a purely aquatic to a partly terrestrial lifestyle. The central auditory system undergoes functional and neuroanatomical reorganization in parallel with the development of new sound conduction pathways adapted for the detection of airborne sounds. Neural responses to sounds can be recorded from the auditory midbrain of tadpoles shortly after hatching, with higher rates of synchronous neural activity and lower sharpness of tuning than observed in postmetamorphic animals. Shortly before the onset of metamorphic climax, there is a brief &quot;deaf&quot; period during which no auditory activity can be evoked from the midbrain, and a loss of connectivity is observed between medullary and midbrain auditory nuclei. During the final stages of metamorphic development, auditory function and neural connectivity are restored. The acoustic communication system of the adult frog emerges from these periods of anatomical and physiological plasticity during metamorphosis.
Neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) generates NO in neurons, and heme-oxygenase-2 (HO-2) synthesizes carbon monoxide (CO). We have evaluated the roles of NO and CO in intestinal neurotransmission using mice with targeted deletions of nNOS or HO-2. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated colocalization of nNOS and HO-2 in myenteric ganglia. Nonadrenergic noncholinergic relaxation and cyclic guanosine 3',5' monophosphate elevations evoked by electrical field stimulation were diminished markedly in both nNOSDelta/Delta and HO-2(Delta)/Delta mice. In wild-type mice, NOS inhibitors and HO inhibitors partially inhibited nonadrenergic noncholinergic relaxation. In nNOSDelta/Delta animals, NOS inhibitors selectively lost their efficacy, and HO inhibitors were inactive in HO-2(Delta)/Delta animals.
We investigated the distribution of parasympathetic, sympathetic, and sensory perivascular nerve fibers in rabbit cephalic arteries supplying the brain, exocrine glands, nasal mucosa, masseter muscles, tongue, and skin in the face and also examined cranial autonomic and sensory ganglia. NADPH diaphorase (NADPHd)-positive and vasoactive intestinal peptide-like immunoreactive (VIP-LI) neurons were located in the cranial parasympathetic ganglia. Neuropeptide Y (NPY)-LI neurons occurred mainly, and dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH)-LI neurons occurred exclusively, in the superior cervical (sympathetic) ganglion. Substance P (SP)-LI and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-LI neurons occurred only in the trigeminal (sensory) ganglion. Therefore, it was assumed that NADPHd-positive and VIP-LI perivascular nerve fibers in cephalic arteries were parasympathetic, all DBH-LI and most NPY-LI fibers were sympathetic, and SP-LI and CGRP-LI fibers were sensory in nature. In the cerebral arteries, NADPHd-positive and VIP-LI varicose fibers were more numerous in the rostral than in the caudal half of the Circle of Willis. In the extracranial arteries, NADPHd-positive and VIP-LI fibers were most abundant in the lingual, lacrimal, and supraorbital arteries; sparse in the parotid and submandibular arteries; and absent in the ear artery. There was an obvious proximal-to-distal density gradient along individual cephalic arterial trees. In contrast, DBH-LI, NPY-LI, SP-LI, and CGRP-LI varicose nerve fibers were similar in density in all cephalic arteries and their branches. These neuroanatomical findings suggest that differential parasympathetic innervation in cephalic arteries may play a role in the partitioning of blood flow between different cephalic tissues.
The chinchilla crista ampullaris was studied in 10 samples, each containing 32 consecutive ultrathin sections of the entire neuroepithelium. Dissector methods were used to estimate the incidence of various synaptic features, and results were confirmed in completely reconstructed hair cells. There are large regional variations in cellular and synaptic architecture. Type I and type II hair cells are shorter, broader, and less densely packed in the central zone than in the intermediate and peripheral zones. Complex calyx endings are most common centrally. On average, there are 15-20 ribbon synapses and 25-30 calyceal invaginations in each type I hair cell. Synapses and invaginations are most numerous centrally. Central type II hair cells receive considerably fewer afferent boutons than do peripheral type II hair cells, but have similar numbers of ribbon synapses. The numbers are similar because central type II hair cells make more synapses with the outer faces of calyx endings and with individual afferent boutons. Most afferent boutons get one ribbon synapse. Boutons without ribbon synapses were only found peripherally, and boutons getting multiple synapses were most frequent centrally. Throughout the neuroepithelium, there is an average of three to four efferent boutons on each type II hair cell and calyx ending. Reciprocal synapses are rare. Most synaptic ribbons in type I hair cells are spherules; those in type II hair cells can be spherical or elongated and are particularly heterogeneous centrally. Consistent with the proposal that the crista is concentrically organized, the intermediate and peripheral zones are each similar in their cellular and synaptic architecture near the base and near the planum. An especially differentiated subzone may exist in the middle of the central zone.
We measured tau concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples taken during the lifetime of 43 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and correlated these values with neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) scores as well as glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression as a marker of astrocytosis in the brain post-mortem. The CSF tau values showed a positive correlation with neocortical NFT scores (r = 0.44, p &lt; 0.005), while GFAP immmunoreactivity did not correlate with CSF tau. This study reveals a high variation in CSF tau values in patients with neuropathologically confirmed AD (range 194-1539 pg/ml) and indicates that high CSF tau values in the late phase of Alzheimer's disease predict severe neurodegeneration as evidenced by increased NFT scores.
We have investigated the effects of a dopamine D3 receptor antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN), on neurotensin and dynorphin mRNA levels in rat nucleus accumbens. Intracerebroventricular injections of ODNs were made into the lateral ventricle (5 and 10 microg h(-1), for 5 days). Receptor autoradiography of dopamine D2 and D3 receptor subtypes was performed. Dynorphin and neurotensin mRNA levels were evaluated by in situ hybridization. Dopamine D3 receptor levels were significantly decreased in nucleus accumbens shell (NAS) of rats that received the D3 antisense ODN. Dynorphin and neurotensin mRNA levels were also significantly decreased in the NAS after D3 antisense ODN treatments. Our results show that D3 receptors may regulate neuropeptide gene expression and demonstrate that an antisense strategy could be useful to identify molecular targets under control of specific dopamine receptor subtypes.
The neural mechanisms of visual binding in humans were investigated by measuring the brain's high-frequency electric responses (36-44 Hz) to the subjective visual perception of a unified three-dimensional illusion. 40 Hz synchronization was found over occipital and right parieto-temporal areas 500-300 ms before visual awareness of the three-dimensional Gestalt was reported, but not during the viewing of the illusion. At lower frequency bands (8-13 Hz and 13-20 Hz) no corresponding synchronization was found. 40 Hz synchronization thus directly correlates with the construction and emergence of a unified visual percept and may reflect the rapid formation of transient functional connections between spatially separated cortical areas.


We described a novel approach to the study of how spike trains encode sensory information. This approach emphasizes the idea that spike trains are sequences of discrete events, rather than approximations to continuous signals. Aided by some simple heuristics, such as a caricature of neurons as coincidence detectors, we constructed candidate notions of &quot;distances&quot; between spike trains, considered as points in an abstract space. Each candidate distance was evaluated for relevance to biological encoding by determining whether it led to systematic, stimulus-dependent, clustering of the neural responses. We showed here that these distance can also be used to construct a &quot;response space&quot; for the neuron. The response space, which is typically not Euclidean, can represent two or three stimulus attributes. We also introduced the notion of a &quot;consensus spike train,&quot; defined as the spike train with minimum average distance from a set of observed responses. For the distances we considered, the consensus spike train (for a particular stimulus) contained only those spikes that were present at consistent times across the observed responses to that stimulus, and thus contained fewer spikes than the typical observed responses. Nevertheless, these consensus spike trains provided an equivalent (or even superior) representation of the stimulus array.
The brain can protect itself from ischemia and/or hypoxia by two distinct mechanisms which probably involve two separate systems of neurons in the CNS. One, which mediates a reflexive neurogenic neuroprotection, emanates from oxygen-sensitive sympathoexcitatory reticulospinal neurons of the RVLM. These cells, excited within seconds by reduction in blood flow or oxygen, initiate the systemic vascular components of the oxygen conserving (diving) reflex. They profoundly increase rCBF without changing rCGU and, hence, rapidly and efficiently provide the brain with oxygen. Upon cessation of the stimulus the systemic and cerebrovascular adjustments return to normal. The system mediating reflex protection projects via as-yet-undefined projections from RVLM to upper brainstem and/or thalamus to engage a small population of neurons in the cortex which appear to be dedicated to transducing a neuronal signal into vasodilation. It also appears to relay the central neurogenic vasodilation elicited from other brain regions, including excitation of axons innervating the FN. This mode of protection would be initiated under conditions of global ischemia and/or hypoxemia because the signal is detected by medullary neurons. The second neuroprotective system is represented in intrinsic neurons of the cerebellar FN and mediates a conditioned central neurogenic neuroprotection. The response can be initiated by excitation of intrinsic neurons of the FN and does not appear dependent upon RVLM. The pathways and transmitters that mediate the effect are unknown. The neuroprotection afforded by this network is long-lasting, persisting for almost two weeks, and is associated with reduced excitability of cortical neurons and reduced immunoreactivity of cerebral microvessels. This mode of neuroprotection, moreover, is not restricted to focal ischemia, as we have demonstrated that it also protects the brain against global ischemia and excitotoxic cell death. That the brain may have neuronal systems dedicated to protecting itself from injury, at first appearing to be a novel concept, is, upon reflection, not surprising since the brain is not injured in naturalistic behaviors characterized by very low levels of rCBF, diving and hibernation. An understanding of the pathways, transmitters, and molecules engaged in such protection may provide new insights into novel therapies for a range of disorders characterized by neuronal death.




Ethanol exposure affects cellular mechanisms involved in the regulation of calcium (Ca2+) homeostasis. Neurotrophins, such as nerve growth factor (NGF), stabilize intracellular Ca2+([Ca2+]i) during a variety of neurotoxic insults. In this study, changes in [Ca2+]i during treatment with ethanol and NGF were measured at the cell body of neurons using the Ca2+ indicator indo-1. Cultured postnatal day-of-birth (P0) septohippocampal (SH) neurons that were labeled with 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethyl-indocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI), increased [Ca2+]i in response to ethanol. This response was dose-related. P0 SH neurons treated with NGF had lower [Ca2+]i than neurons withdrawn from NGF, implying that NGF may modulate Ca2+ homeostasis in these neurons. NGF also prevented the dose-related increase in [Ca2+]i in ethanol-treated SH neurons. The SH neurons increased [Ca2+]i when they were stimulated with 30 mM potassium chloride (KCl). Ethanol inhibited the potassium-stimulated change in [Ca2+]i but the combination of ethanol and NGF caused [Ca2+]i to increase with 100 mg% and 400 mg% ethanol and to decrease to a lower level with 200 mg% ethanol. These data were compared to data from previously published similar aged medial septal (MS) neurons (B. Webb, S.S. Suarez, M.B. Heaton, D.W. Walker, Clin. Exp. Res. 20 (1996) 1385-1394) and with embryonic gestational day 21 (E21) SH neurons (B. Webb, S.S. Suarez, M.B. Heaton, D.W. Walker, Brain Res. 729 (1996) 176-189). Differences in [Ca2+]i responses were observed in ethanol and NGF-treated postnatal SH neurons compared with P0 MS neurons and E21 SH neurons. Of these differences, most occurred during the combined treatment with ethanol and NGF compared with either treatment alone.
The L-type voltage sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) of chick embryo retinospheroids were characterized during the development in vitro. Functionally, the activity of VSCC was characterized by continuously monitoring the changes in the intracellular free Ca2+ concentration (delta[Ca2+]i) with indo-1, in response to 30 mM KCl. The contribution of the L-type VSCC was evaluated using the L-type VSCC antagonist, nitrendipine. We also characterized the binding of [3H]nitrendipine to retinospheroid membranes during development, and determined the Kd and Bmax values. We observed that the changes in [Ca2+]i in response to 30 mM KCl increased from 159.46 +/- 6.62 nM at 0 days in vitro (DIV) retinospheroids to 704.4 +/- 59.9 nM at 14 DIV retinospheroids. Nitrendipine (2 microM) blocked the delta[Ca2+]i response by approximately 67% in all ages tested. No significant difference in the Kd values for the nitrendipine binding was observed during in vitro development of the retinospheroids. However, the Bmax increased from 27.99 +/- 1.95 fmol/mg protein in 0 DIV retinospheroids to 131.09 +/- 14.24 fmol/mg protein in 14 DIV retinospheroids, supporting the delta[Ca2+]i results. The results presented suggest that the increase in [Ca2+]i during development was due to an increase in the number of L-type channels. Therefore, the expression of L-type VSCC is developmentally regulated during retinogenesis in vitro and accompanies neuronal maturation, probably regulating the Ca2+ input crucial to the onset of important intracellular Ca2+-dependent functions.
Modulation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic Acid (AMPA) receptors in the brain by protein phosphorylation may play a crucial role in the regulation of synaptic plasticity. Previous studies have demonstrated that calmodulin (CaM) kinase II can phosphorylate and modulate AMPA receptors. However, the sites of CaM kinase phosphorylation have not been unequivocally identified. In the current study, we have generated two phosphorylation site-specific antibodies to analyze the phosphorylation of the glutamate receptor GluR1 subunit. These antibodies recognize GluR1 only when it is phosphorylated on serine residues 831 or 845. We have used these antibodies to demonstrate that serine 831 is specifically phosphorylated by CaM kinase II in transfected cells expressing GluR1 as well as in hippocampal slice preparations. Two-dimensional phosphopeptide mapping experiments indicate that Ser-831 is the major site of CaM kinase II phosphorylation on GluR1. In addition, treatment of hippocampal slice preparations with phorbol esters and forskolin increase the phosphorylation of serine 831 and 845, respectively, indicating that protein kinase C and protein kinase A phosphorylate these residues in hippocampal slices. These results identify the site of CaM kinase phosphorylation of the GluR1 subunit and demonstrate that GluR1 is multiply phosphorylated by protein kinase A, protein kinase C, and CaM kinase II in situ.
In the mammalian central nervous system, the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subclass of glutamate receptors may play an important role in brain diseases such as stroke, brain or spinal cord trauma, epilepsy, and certain neurodegenerative diseases. Compounds which specifically antagonize the actions of the neurotransmitter glutamate at the NMDA receptor ion-channel site offer a novel approach to treating these disorders. CERESTAT (4, aptiganel CNS 1102) is currently undergoing clinical trial for the treatment of traumatic brain injury and stroke. Previously, we reported that analogues of N-1-naphthyl-N'-(3-ethylphenyl)-N'-methylguanidine (4) bound to the NMDA receptor ion-channel site with high potency and selectivity. Recently, molecules active at both sigma receptors and NMDA receptor sites were investigated. A series of substituted diphenylguanidines 6 which are structurally related to N-1-naphthyl-N'-(3-ethylphenyl)-N'-methylguanidine was prepared. Compounds containing appropriate substitution pattern in one of the phenyl rings of diphenylguanidines displayed high affinity. For example, N-(2,5-dibromophenyl)-N'-(3-ethylphenyl)-N'- methylguanidine (27b, R2 = R5 = Br, R3 = C2H5) exhibited potency at both sigma receptors and NMDA receptor sites; 27b also showed high efficacy in vivo in a neonatal rat excitotoxicity model. Further studies indicated that substituent effects were important in this compound series, and 2,5-disubstituted phenyl was the preferred substitution pattern for high-affinity binding at NMDA receptor sites. Bromo and methylthio were the optimal substituents for the R2 and R5 positions of the 2,5-disubstituted phenyl group, respectively. N-(2-Bromo-5-(methylthio)phenyl)-N'- (3-ethylphenyl)-N'-methylguanidine (34b, R2 = Br, R5 = SMe, R3 = C2H5) was highly active at NMDA receptor sites. We found that the binding affinity of guanidines of type 6 could be further enhanced with the appropriate substitution at R3. Optimal activity in this series are afforded by 43b and 44b (R2 = Cl or Br, R5 = R3 = SCH3). Both 43b and 44b bound to NMDA receptor sites with high potency and selectivity (Ki vs [3H]MK-801: 1.87 and 1.65 nM, respectively); these compounds are active in vivo in various animal models of neuroprotection. The structure--activity relationships for these compounds at the NMDA receptor ion-channel site are discussed.
Oxidative stress may contribute to the neurodegenerative process in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Motor cortex in PD is not affected and its inclusion in studies of free radical involvement in ALS pathogenesis could help elucidate whether oxidative stress is disease specific or a more widespread phenomenon present in the neurodegeneration. We have measured cytosolic and mitochondrial isoforms of superoxide dismutase (SOD), antioxidant enzymes involved in primary defence against free radical damage, in motor cortex of six patients with sporadic form of ALS (SALS), eight with PD and eight normal control subjects. We have found no difference in the activities of cytosolic and mitochondrial SOD between SALS and control motor cortex. Mitochondrial SOD activity in PD motor cortex was, however, significantly higher than in SALS and control motor cortex whereas activity of cytosolic SOD was lower than in two other groups although the differences were not statistically significant. Our findings indicate the presence of an altered antioxidant defence system in PD but not ALS upper motor neurons, suggesting that oxidative stress may be a widespread phenomenon in PD.
Cultured C6 glioma cells were able to accumulate [3H]D- and [3H]L-serine in a temperature- and Na+-dependent and saturable manner. The kinetic analysis of these accumulation phenomena indicates that the D- or L-serine uptake into the glioma cells might occur by a single-component system with an apparent Km value around 2480 microM (for D-serine) or 110 microM (for L-serine) and a Vmax value around 7 nmol/min per mg protein. The ratio of the L- to D-serine uptake affinity was similar to that previously reported in the astrocytes of rat cerebrum. The inhibition profiles of D- and L-serine uptake by various amino acid and related compounds resembled each other and those of the ASCT-like neutral amino acid transporter. The present findings therefore suggest that C6 glioma cells may accumulate D- and L-serine through a common ASCT-like transporter and provide a useful model for the glial uptake of extracellular D- and L-serine in the brain.
The dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia was formulated 30 years ago and postulates that the symptoms of schizophrenia are related to an increased central dopaminergic neurotransmission. The two fundamental assumptions that underlay the dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia have received support from brain imaging studies on the dopamine system. There is a high occupancy of central D2-dopamine receptors in patients that are treated with clinically effective doses of classical antipsychotic drugs and recent studies indicate an abnormal function of the presynaptic dopaminergic neuron. Early reports of elevated postsynaptic D2-dopamine receptors in schizophrenic brains post mortem have, however, not been consistently confirmed by brain imaging studies of young neuroleptic-nave patients with schizophrenia. Suitable methods are now being developed for brain imaging of the dopamine system in the limbic and neocortical regions that are of central interest in schizophrenia research.
With the application of a homology screening strategy, including PCR amplification and southern blot hybridization, a novel cDNA was cloned from rat liver and anterior pituitary libraries. It was found to encode a 371-amino acid protein which has the characteristics of a heptahelix receptor and shows structural identity to members of the chemoattractant receptor family. A primary receptor message of 3.5 kb size was identified by northern blot hybridization. This RNA species showed high expression in heart and lung, while expression was lower in small intestines, colon, kidney, liver, uterus, and in brain. Another larger RNA species of 6.3 kb appeared in heart and lung. In situ hybridization histochemistry performed on tissue from liver and kidney revealed a mainly vascular distribution of the receptor message.
It is widely accepted that the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS) is unable to regenerate axons. In addition to physical or molecular barriers presented by glial scarring at the lesion site, it has been suggested that the normal myelinated CNS environment contains potent growth inhibitors or lacks growth-promoting molecules. Here we investigate whether adult CNS white matter can support long-distance regeneration of adult axons in the absence of glial scarring, by using a microtransplantation technique that minimizes scarring to inject minute volumes of dissociated adult rat dorsal root ganglia directly into adult rat CNS pathways. This atraumatic injection procedure allowed considerable numbers of regenerating adult axons immediate access to the host glial terrain, where we found that they rapidly extended for long distances in white matter, eventually invading grey matter. Abortive regeneration correlated precisely with increased levels of proteoglycans within the extracellular matrix at the transplant interface, whereas successfully regenerating transplants were associated with minimal upregulation of these molecules. Our results demonstrate, to our knowledge for the first time, that reactive glial extracellular matrix at the lesion site is directly associated with failure of axon regrowth in vivo, and that adult myelinated white matter tracts beyond the glial scar can be highly permissive for regeneration.
Since its development in the late 1980's, the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has revolutionised molecular genetic studies. It has provided direct access to genetic material in quantities sufficient for meaningful analyses to be performed. Adaptations to the basic technique have resulted in a wide range of applications from basic gene amplification to the estimation of DNA species quantities within cells. The study of human mitochondrial genetics is but one of the many disciplines to benefit from the rapid ascension of PCR based technology. In this communication we outline several uses of the PCR technique in the detection, quantification and characterisation of human mitochondrial genetic defects. The data presented in this communication highlight the versatility and applicability of PCR not only to mitochondrial research but to other disciplines of medical research.
Transcription factor YY1 is a zinc finger protein which can interact and form complexes with several proteins. Depending on its binding partners, YY1 can either activate or repress the transcription of several genes. We have studied whether the regulation of YY1 is affected by glutamate-induced excitotoxic insult in cultured primary hippocampal and cerebellar granule cells. Using electrophoretic mobility shift (EMSA) technique, we observed that glutamate treatment induced a dramatic increase in the YY1-binding activity of the smallest of three complexes both in the hippocampal and cerebellar granule cells. Two larger complexes disappeared after glutamate treatment in cerebellar granule cells. Supershift assays with specific YY1 antibody showed that all three complexes contained YY1 protein. Western blot assays did not show any changes in the nuclear levels of YY1 protein. Our results show that excitotoxic treatment affects the regulation of YY1 transcription factor and suggest that YY1 is a significant nuclear target for stress-related signaling pathways in neuronal degeneration.
In the trunk of the Drosophila embryo, the segment polarity genes are initially activated by the pair-rule genes, and later maintain each other's expression through a complex network of cross-regulatory interactions. These interactions, which are critical to cell fate specification, are similar in each of the trunk segments. To determine whether segment polarity gene expression is established differently outside the trunk, we studied the regulation of the genes hedgehog (hh), wingless (wg), and engrailed (en) in each of the segments of the developing head. We show that the cross-regulatory relationships among these genes, as well as their initial mode of activation, in the anterior head are significantly different from those in the trunk. In addition, each head segment exhibits a unique network of segment polarity gene interactions. We propose that these segment-specific interactions evolved to specify the high degree of structural diversity required for head morphogenesis.
Posttranslational processing of peptide precursors frequently includes COOH-terminal amidation by the bifunctional enzyme peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM). We examined the ontogeny of PAM gene expression using in situ hybridization and detected expression in the cardiogenic region beginning at embryonic day 9 (e9) and in decidualizing uterine endometrium and myometrial smooth muscle at even earlier postimplantation stages. PAM expression in the CNS at e10 was highest in the dorsal spinal cord and floor plate and exhibited complex patterning in several CNS regions, including the ventricular zone, over the next several days with PAM expression first detected in neurons at e13. High levels of PAM expression characterized several nonneural cell populations as well, including limb mesoderm and the mesenchyme immediately adjacent to nasal, maxillary, palatal, and dental epithelia during tissue fusion and remodeling. Since alternative splicing generates PAM transcripts encoding proproteins that are differentially localized and processed, we used probes that distinguish major subsets of PAM transcripts to determine that transcripts encoding integral membrane PAM isoforms predominate in most, if not all, PAM-expressing cell types throughout development. Further, transcripts that encode soluble and cleavable PAM isoforms are essentially absent from two CNS areas that are rich in transcripts encoding integral membrane, bifunctional PAM: the ependymal region of the spinal cord and the ventricular zone of the hippocampus. These results provide evidence for widespread expression and cell-type-specific alternative splicing of PAM during development and raise the possibility that region-specific amidation of PAM substrates contributes significantly to several developmental processes.
The mechanisms underlying the subcellular localization of neurotrophins and their receptors are poorly understood. We show that in cultured hippocampal neurons, the mRNAs for BDNF and TrkB have a somatodendritic localization, and we quantify the extent of their dendritic mRNA localization. In the dendrites the labeling covers on average the proximal 30% of the total dendritic length. On high potassium depolarization, the labeling of BDNF and TrkB mRNA extends on average to 68% of the dendritic length. This increase does not depend on new RNA synthesis, is inhibited by the Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin, and involves the activation of glutamate receptors. Extracellular Ca2+, partly flowing through L-type Ca2+ channels, is absolutely required for this process to occur. At the protein level, a brief stimulation of hippocampal neurons with 10 mM KCl leads to a marked increase of BDNF and TrkB immunofluorescence density in the distal portion of dendrites, which also occurs, even if at lower levels, when transport is inhibited by nocodazole. The protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide abolishes this increase. The activity-dependent modulation of mRNA targeting and protein accumulation in the dendrites may provide a mechanism for achieving a selective local regulation of the activity of neurotrophins and their receptors, close to their sites of action.
The stabilization and destabilization of myelin mRNA is increasingly recognized as a major control point in regulating myelin gene expression. A brain slice system was developed and characterized to study mRNA stability in actively myelinating oligodendrocytes. The mRNA half-life of a major CNS myelin protein, proteolipid protein (PLP), was measured to be 5 hr. The half-life of another CNS myelin protein mRNA, myelin basic protein (MBP), was measured to be greater than 12 hr. A long half-life for MBP mRNA is consistent with MBP mRNA being stable long enough to be translocated to the myelin internode where it is then translated. Using semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR, it was determined that there was no differential stabilization between the two major PLP mRNA isoforms, PLP and DM20. It was also determined that protein synthesis was required for the specific stabilization of PLP/DM20 mRNAs. Inasmuch as PLP is a major structural protein of the CNS myelin, the PLP/DM20 mRNAs have relatively short half-lives. However, the PLP/DM20 mRNAs half-lives may be increased by the action of trans-acting factors that are themselves very labile.
Long-term treatment by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has been shown to decrease the incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Both platelet-activating factor and interleukin-1beta, potent mediators of the inflammatory and immune response, strongly induce transcription of the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) gene in brain cells. Using Northern and RT-PCR analysis, we have determined in 15 control and 10 sporadic AD human neocortical samples (age range, 60-82 yr; postmortem interval [PMI] range, 0.7-16.0 hr) the levels of COX-2 RNA in relation to the constitutively expressed COX-1 and beta-actin RNA message levels. Our results indicate that in short PMI brain, COX-1 and COX-2 transcripts are relatively low abundance RNA messages, ranging from a mean of 6.8% of the beta-actin signal in controls to 8.5% of the beta-actin signal in AD-affected brain. A large variation in the signal intensity for COX-2 RNA was noted in both control and AD; although there was a trend for higher COX-2 RNA message abundance in AD neocortex to +11.5% of that of controls, it did not reach statistical significance (ANOVA = 0.45). Several human tissues, including heart, skeletal muscle, lung, kidney, and spinal cord, displayed 4.6- and 2.8-kb COX-2 RNA message isoforms; however, the 4.6-kb COX-2 RNA predominated in the hippocampus and association neocortex. COX-2 RNA message was found to be degraded at similar rates in both control and AD tissues, and a strong positive correlation between the PMI and the intensity of the COX-2 RNA signal was noted (ANOVA = 0.006). Linear regression analysis indicated that the 4.6-kb COX-2 RNA is an unstable short-lived RNA species with a half-life of not more than 3.5 hr, a feature characteristic of immediate early gene transcripts. Individual hypervariability in COX-2 RNA message abundance may reflect various degrees of expression of AD-related inflammatory processes.
1. Arteriolar diameter and membrane voltage have been measured to investigate the actions of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in rat irideal arterioles. 2. Activation of sensory nerves inhibited sympathetic vasoconstriction, reduced the accompanying 40-50 mV depolarization by 90% and caused a 4 mV hyperpolarization. 3. The inhibition of vasoconstriction was prevented by either preincubation in L-NAME (10 microM), to inhibit nitric oxide production, by preincubation in the cell-permeant adenylate cyclase inhibitor dideoxyadenosine (1 mM) or by preincubation in the ATP-sensitive potassium channel blocker glibenclamide (10 microM). The subsequent addition of a nitric oxide donor to the glibenclamide solution inhibited nerve-mediated vasoconstriction, suggesting that the potassium channel involvement preceded the production of nitric oxide. The small hyperpolarization was not affected by L-NAME. 4. Nerve-mediated vasodilatation persisted in the presence of L-NAME (10 microM) but was abolished with the CGRP1 receptor antagonist CGRPS-37. 5. In arterioles preconstricted with the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist UK-14304 (100 nM), exogenous CGRP caused a hyperpolarization and a dose-dependent vasodilatation, neither of which was affected by L-NAME (10 microM). 6. In arterioles preconstricted with 30 mM KCl, CGRP (10 nM) caused vasodilatation but not hyperpolarization, suggesting that the hyperpolarization was not causal to the vasodilatation. 7. Forskolin (30 nM), in the presence of L-NAME to present effects due to nitric oxide, caused vasodilatation. 8. These results suggest that CGRP inhibits sympathetic nerve-mediated vasoconstriction through sequential increases in cyclic AMP and nitric oxide, while vasodilatation results from increases in cyclic AMP alone. The production of nitric oxide, but not its mechanism of action, appears to be dependent on the activation of ATP-sensitive potassium channels. The possible sites of action of these two pathways are discussed.


Aggregation and deposition of the 40-42-residue amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) are early and necessary neuropathological events in Alzheimer's disease. An understanding of the molecular interactions that trigger these events is important for therapeutic strategies aimed at blocking Abeta plaque formation at the earliest stages. Heparan sulfate proteoglycans may play a fundamental role since they are invariably associated with Abeta and other amyloid deposits at all stages. However, the nature of the Abeta-heparan sulfate proteoglycan binding has been difficult to elucidate because of the strong tendency of Abeta to self-aggregate. Affinity co-electrophoresis can measure the binding of proteoglycans or glycosaminoglycans to proteins without altering the physical state of the protein during the assay. We used affinity co-electrophoresis to study the interaction between Abeta and the glycosaminoglycan heparin and found that the aggregation state of Abeta governs its heparin-binding properties: heparin binds to fibrillar but not nonfibrillar Abeta. The amyloid binding dye, Congo red, inhibited the interaction in a specific and dose-dependent manner. The &quot;Dutch&quot; mutant AbetaE22Q peptide formed fibrils more readily than wild type Abeta and it also attained a heparin-binding state more readily, but, once formed, mutant and wild type fibrils bound heparin with similar affinities. The heparin-binding ability of aggregated AbetaE22Q was reversible with incubation in a solvent that promotes alpha-helical conformation, further suggesting that conformation of the peptide is important. Studies with another human amyloidogenic protein, amylin, suggested that its heparin-binding properties were also dependent on aggregation state. These results demonstrate the dependence of the Abeta-heparin interaction on the conformation and aggregation state of Abeta rather than primary sequence alone, and suggest methods of interfering with this association.
The AS/AGU rat is characterised by an ungainly, staggering gait, hind-limb rigidity, whole body tremor and (in older animals) difficulty in initiating movement. Brains of AS and AS/AGU males aged between 3 and 12 months (n = 10 per group) were sectioned transversely on a cryostat (-20 degrees C) to produce two successive cut faces (corresponding approximately to Bregma +1.2 and -0.5 mm) and 1 mm diameter x 1 mm deep micropunches were taken from four areas of the caudate-putamen. Levels of dopamine in all four areas (measured by HPLC-ECD followed by protein estimation) peaked at around 6 months and then declined in AS and AS/AGU rats. In the dorsal and lateral caudate-putamen, dopamine levels were significantly reduced in AS/AGU rats compared to AS controls from 6 months onwards. This provides further evidence that the AS/AGU mutant has impairment of its striatal dopaminergic systems.
The homozygous Brattleboro rat (di/di) synthesizes a vasopressin (VP) precursor with an aberrant C-terminus, which causes a hypothalamic form of diabetes insipidus. The neuroendocrine polypeptide 7B2 is present in VP and oxytocin (OT) neurons of the supraoptic and paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus in wild type rats. However, in the di/di rat 7B2 immunoreactivity is absent in the VP cell population, whereas 7B2 levels within the OT cells are unaffected. Remarkably, there is no obvious difference in 7B2 transcript levels between VP and OT neurons in the di/di rat hypothalamus. This study shows that the presence of mRNA does not automatically result in the subsequent synthesis of its protein. Cellular mechanisms underlying this discrepancy are discussed.
Patch-clamp recording techniques were used to examine the effect of nociceptin upon neurones contained in slices from the rat ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH). Bath application of 50-300 nM nociceptin hyperpolarised neurones in a concentration-dependent manner that was not affected by either tetrodotoxin (TTX) or naloxone. In voltage-clamp studies nociceptin induced an outward current at -60mV that had a reversal potential of -100.2 +/- 4.6 mV and was abolished by bath application of 2 mM BaCl2.
In the forebrain of 56-day-old rats, histochemical studies revealed that the subcutaneous injection of a psychotomimetic phencyclidine (PCP; 1 and 10 mg/kg) induced a dose-related and dense nuclear c-Fos-like immunoreactivity in the pyriform cortex, layers IV-VI of the neocortex and septum, but a sparse c-Fos immunostaining in the olfactory tubercle and mid-lateral striatum. Infant rats at postnatal day 8 expressed much fewer and more confined c-Fos-positive cells in the neocortex than young adult rats following PCP injection. However, a similar expression pattern of PCP-induced c-Fos was observed in the pyriform cortex, mid-lateral striatum, olfactory tubercle and septum between the infant and adult periods. These developmental changes in the regional distribution of a neuronal activity marker, c-Fos, suggest that neuronal populations involved in PCP-induced abnormal behavior are influenced by postnatal development, at least, in the neocortex.
It is now commonly accepted that planning and execution of movements are based on distributed processing by neuronal populations in motor cortical areas. It is less clear, though, how these populations organize dynamically to cope with the momentary computational demands. Simultaneously recorded activities of neurons in the primary motor cortex of monkeys during performance of a delayed-pointing task exhibited context-dependent, rapid changes in the patterns of coincident action potentials. Accurate spike synchronization occurred in relation to external events (stimuli, movements) and was commonly accompanied by discharge rate modulations but without precise time locking of the spikes to these external events. Spike synchronization also occurred in relation to purely internal events (stimulus expectancy), where firing rate modulations were distinctly absent. These findings indicate that internally generated synchronization of individual spike discharges may subserve the cortical organization of cognitive motor processes.
The effects of the adenosine A1 receptor agonist, N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA), on both the increase in intracellular free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) and on the release of endogenous glutamate in rat hippocampal synaptosomes were studied. The inhibitory effect of CPA on the increase in [Ca2+]i stimulated with 4-aminopyridine was neutralized by the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist, 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX). The inhibitory effect of CPA was greater in synaptosomes from the CA1 subregion than in whole hippocampal synaptosomes. The inhibitory effects of both CPA and of the Ca2+ channel blockers, omega-conotoxin GVIA, omega-conotoxin MVIIC or omega-conotoxin GVIA plus omega-conotoxin MVIIC, were greater than those caused by the Ca2+ channel blockers. The release of endogenous glutamate was inhibited by 41% by CPA. The inhibition observed when CPA and omega-conotoxin GVIA or CPA and omega-conotoxin MVIIC were present was also greater than the inhibition by the Ca2+ channel blockers alone. The presence of both omega-conotoxin GVIA and omega-conotoxin MVIIC did not completely inhibit the release of glutamate, and CPA significantly enhanced this inhibition. The membrane potential and the accumulation of [3H]tetraphenylphosphonium of polarized or depolarized synaptosomes was not affected by CPA, suggesting that adenosine did not increase potassium conductances. The present results suggest that, in hippocampal glutamatergic nerve terminals, adenosine A1 receptor activation partly inhibits P/Q- and other non-identified types of Ca2+ channels.
Asymmetric cell division is a general process used in many developmental contexts to create two differently fated cells from a single progenitor cell. Intrinsic mechanisms like the asymmetric transmission of cell-fate determinants during cell division, and extrinsic cell-interaction mechanisms, can mediate asymmetric divisions. During embryonic development of the Drosophila central nervous system, neural stem cells called neuroblasts divide asymmetrically to produce another multipotent neuroblast and a ganglion mother cell (GMC) of more restricted developmental potential. Intrinsic mechanisms promote asymmetric division of neuroblasts: for example, the transcription factor Prospero localizes to the basal cell cortex of mitotic neuroblasts and then segregates exclusively into the GMC, which buds off from the basal side of the neuroblast. In the GMC, Prospero translocates to the nucleus, where it establishes differential gene expression between sibling cells. Here we report the identification of a gene, miranda, which encodes a new protein that co-localizes with Prospero in mitotic neuroblasts, tethers Prospero to the basal cortex of mitotic neuroblasts, directing Prospero into the GMC, and releases Prospero from the cell cortex within GMCs. miranda thus creates intrinsic differences between sibling cells by mediating the asymmetric segregation of a transcription factor into only one daughter cell during neural stem-cell division.
Evidence has accumulated that the immediate early gene c-fos has important physiological and pharmacological properties in the central nervous system. The role of c-fos in seizures and, in particular, kainic acid-induced seizures, is unclear. It is unknown if c-fos stimulation after kainic acid is a consequence of neuronal activation, or an intrinsic critical component of the metabolic pathways leading to seizure. To elucidate this problem we have pretreated male Wistar rats with antisense c-fos and nonsense c-fos oligodeoxynucleotides 12 h prior to kainic acid 10 mg/kg intraperitoneal. Antisense c-fos inhibited the number of wet dog shakes and the appearance of limbic motor seizures, effects not seen with nonsense or vehicle. The anticonvulsant effects were associated with reduction of both Fos and NGFI-A immunoreactivity and neuroprotection in the hippocampus, thalamus and primary olfactory cortex-amygdaloid region. Four days after antisense c-fos limbic motor seizures were not inhibited, and there was no decrease in Fos or NGFI-A immunoreactivity and no neuroprotection, indicating that the anticonvulsant effects were not secondary to a toxic effect. Sense oligonucleotides had no anticonvulsant effects when given 12 h prior to kainic acid and did not influence immunoreactivity or neuronal survival. In conclusion, these findings suggest a role for c-fos in the generation of kainic acid-induced limbic seizures and neuronal death.
Although it has been known for some time that estrogen exerts a profound influence on brain development a definitive demonstration of the role of the classical estrogen receptor (ERalpha) in sexual differentiation has remained elusive. In the present study we used a sexually dimorphic population of dopaminergic neurons in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (AVPV) to test the dependence of sexual differentiation on a functional ERalpha by comparing the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive neurons in the AVPV of wild-type (WT) mice with that of mice in which the ERalpha had been disrupted by homologous recombination (ERKOalpha). Only a few ERalpha-immunoreactive neurons were detected in the AVPV of ERKOalpha mice, and the number of TH-immunoreactive neurons was three times that of WT mice, suggesting that disruption of the ERalpha gene feminized the number of TH-immunoreactive neurons. In contrast, the AVPV contains the same number of TH-immunoreactive neurons in testicular feminized male mice as in WT males, indicating that sexual differentiation of this population of neurons is not dependent on an intact androgen receptor. The number of TH-immunoreactive neurons in the AVPV of female ERKOalpha mice remained higher than that of WT males, but TH staining appeared to be lower than that of WT females. Thus, the sexual differentiation of dopamine neurons in the AVPV appears to be receptor specific and dependent on the perinatal steroid environment.
Schistosome parasites adjust the physiology and behavior of their intermediate molluscan hosts to their own benefit. Previous studies demonstrated effects of the avian-schistosome Trichobilharzia ocellata on peptidergic centers in the brain of the intermediate snail host Lymnaea stagnalis. In particular, electrophysiological properties and peptide release of growth- and reproduction-controlling neuroendocrine neurons were affected. We now have examined the possibility that the expression of genes that control physiology and behavior of the host might be altered during parasitosis. A cDNA library of the brain of parasitized Lymnaea was constructed and differentially screened by using mRNA from the brain of both parasitized and nonparasitized snails. This screening yielded a number of clones, including previously identified cDNAs as well as novel neuronal transcripts, which appear to be differentially regulated. The majority of these transcripts encode neuropeptides. Reverse Northern blot analysis confirmed that neuropeptide gene expression is indeed affected in parasitized animals. Moreover, the expression profiles of 10 transcripts tested showed a differential, parasitic stage-specific regulation. Changes in expression could in many cases already be observed between 1.5 and 5 hr postinfection, suggesting that changes in gene expression are a direct effect of parasitosis. We suggest that direct regulation of neuropeptide gene expression is a strategy of parasites to induce physiological and behavioral changes in the host.
Human epithelial kidney cells (HEK) were prepared to coexpress alpha1A, alpha2delta with different beta calcium channel subunits and green fluorescence protein. To compare the calcium currents observed in these cells with the native neuronal currents, electrophysiological and pharmacological tools were used conjointly. Whole-cell current recordings of human epithelial kidney alpha1A-transfected cells showed small inactivating currents in 80 mM Ba2+ that were relatively insensitive to calcium blockers. Coexpression of alpha1A, betaIb, and alpha2delta produced a robust inactivating current detected in 10 mM Ba2+, reversibly blockable with low concentration of omega-agatoxin IVA (omega-Aga IVA) or synthetic funnel-web spider toxin (sFTX). Barium currents were also supported by alpha1A, beta2a, alpha2delta subunits, which demonstrated the slowest inactivation and were relatively insensitive to omega-Aga IVA and sFTX. Coexpression of beta3 with the same combination as above produced inactivating currents also insensitive to low concentration of omega-Aga IVA and sFTX. These data indicate that the combination alpha1A, betaIb, alpha2delta best resembles P-type channels given the rate of inactivation and the high sensitivity to omega-Aga IVA and sFTX. More importantly, the specificity of the channel blocker is highly influenced by the beta subunit associated with the alpha1A subunit.
The ability of a peptide hormone to affect many different intracellular targets is thought to be possible because of the modular organization of signal transducing molecules in the cell. Evidence for the presence of signaling modules in metazoan cells, however, is incomplete. Herein we show, with morphology and cell fractionation, that all the components of a mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway are concentrated in caveolae of unstimulated human fibroblasts. Addition of platelet-derived growth factor to either the intact cell or caveolae isolated from these cells stimulates tyrosine phosphorylation and activates mitogen-activated protein kinases in caveolae. The molecular machinery for kinase activation, therefore, is preorganized at the cell surface of quiescent cells.
Estrogen has been considered as a key substance that induces sexual differentiation of the brain during fetal and neonatal life in the rat. Thus, to define the brain regions involved in the brain sexual differentiation, we examined the regions where the estrogen receptor (ER) is located in the developing rat brain. We examined immunohistochemical distribution of the cells containing estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) in the preoptic region, the diencephalon, and the amygdala in male and female rats on postnatal days 1-35 (PD1-PD35). The antibody used recognizes ER-alpha equally well for both occupied and unoccupied forms. ER-alpha immunostaining was restricted to the cell nuclei of specific cell groups. In PD1 rats, ER-alpha-immunoreactive (ER-IR) signals were detected in the lateral septum, the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis, the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN), the median preoptic nucleus, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the hypothalamic periventricular nucleus, the lateral habenula, the posterodorsal part of the medial amygdala nucleus, the posterior part of the cortical amygdala nucleus, the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus (VMH), the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, and the posterior hypothalamic periventricular nucleus. The distribution pattern of ER-IR cells in the newborn rat was much the same as that in the adult in the preoptic-hypothalamic and amygdala regions. Moreover, the signals in the MPN and the VMH were stronger in the female than in the male, perhaps reflecting the ability ofestrogen generated by aromatization of testosterone in the male to down-regulate the ER signal. Thus, the brain regions showing sex differences may be sites of sexual differentiation of the brain by aromatizable androgen during the neonatal period.
We have isolated a partial cDNA for the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor 1 (NMDAR1) subunit from an Apteronotus leptorhynchus brain cDNA library. The A. leptorhynchus cDNA fragment, which corresponds to nucleotides 135-903 within the 5' region of the rat NR1 mRNA, encodes 252 amino acids that are &gt;80% identical to the homologous segments of the rat, human, and duck NR1 proteins. RNAse protection assays revealed that the A. leptorhynchus NR1 mRNA was highly enriched in the forebrain and hypothalamus, with lesser amounts in the brainstem, and very low levels in the cerebellum. In situ hybridization also demonstrated that neurons in the pallial forebrain were highly enriched in NR1 transcripts. High levels of NR1 mRNA were found in pyramidal cells within the optic tectum and octavolateral regions. Pyramidal cells of the electrosensory lateral line lobe had the highest levels of expression, and the NR1 mRNA was found to be selectively enriched in their apical dendrites.
This paper describes the regional and cellular distribution of serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine2a (5-HT2a) receptor mRNA in (sub)regions of the rat striatum by using in situ hybridization. Our results indicate that 5-HT2a mRNA is distributed heterogeneously in this brain region. Regional densitometry of autoradiograms from striatal sections hybridized with isotope-labeled cRNA probes showed that mRNA levels were highest in the olfactory tubercle, lower in the nucleus accumbens, and lowest in the caudate-putamen. In the nucleus accumbens, the average mRNA levels in the shell were higher than those in the core. These data suggest a particular relevance for the 5-HT2a receptor for olfactory tubercle- and shell-related functions. Therefore, in the nucleus accumbens and the olfactory tubercle, the cellular localization of 5-HT2a mRNA was investigated by determining the colocalization of 5-HT2a mRNA with enkephalin mRNA or dynorphin mRNA. 5-HT2a mRNA was found in enkephalinergic as well as dynorphinergic neurons. Thus, there does not seem to be a differential distribution of this receptor in the output routes of the ventral striatum. In all of the subregions investigated (core, medial shell, and lateral shell of the nucleus accumbens and the olfactory tubercle), only subpopulations of the total enkephalinergic and dynorphinergic populations were found to contain 5-HT2a mRNA. For enkephalin, the percentage colocalization was higher in the lateral shell (61%) compared with the other subregions (38-45%). For dynorphin, the percentage colocalization was higher in the olfactory tubercle (68%) than in the other subregions (34-43%). The differences in (sub)regional mRNA levels and in colocalization with opioids suggest a considerable regional differentiation in the effects of 5-HT2a-mediated neurotransmission in the striatum.


During the course of our analysis of myo-inositol monophosphatase (IMPase), a key enzyme of brain inositol signaling, we found it also hydrolyzes galactose 1-phosphate (Gal 1-P), an intermediate of galactose metabolism. Electrophoretically homogeneous IMPase was prepared from three different sources: (i) bovine brain, (ii) rat brain, and (iii) human brain (recombinant), which demonstrated similar ability to hydrolyze inositol monophosphates and galactose 1-phosphate. The ability of IMPase to use both inositol 1-phosphates and galactose 1-phosphate equally as substrates is of considerable importance in determining lithium's mechanism of action. Our current results suggest that during lithium therapy, both galactose and inositol metabolic pathways can be simultaneously modulated through lithium inhibition of IMPase. Enzyme studies with Mg2+ ions as activators and with Li+, Ca2+, Mn2+, Ba2+ ions as inhibitors demonstrate that IMPase is a single enzyme possessing the ability to hydrolyze both inositol monophosphates and Gal-1-P with equal efficiency. In addition, gel-filtration chromatographic analysis demonstrated that IMPase and galactose 1-phosphatase activities co-purify in our electrophoretically homogeneous enzyme preparations. Our results indicate that lithium inhibition of IMPases at clinically relevant concentrations, may modulate both inositol and galactose metabolism, and identifies yet another carbohydrate pathway utilizing IMPase.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) is the only serum apolipoprotein that is also found in the extravascular fluid of the brain, where it is thought to play an important role in lipid transport in the central nervous system. In addition apoE has also been implicated in neural regenerative processes and in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease. Peptides derived from the receptor binding domain of apoE are biologically active and bind to low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors and LDL receptor related protein. There is, however, no direct evidence that these apoE peptides are able to directly activate the endocytic process, either in the brain or elsewhere. In the present paper, we have used electron microscopy and video imaging fluorescence microscopy to investigate the effects of a peptide derived from the receptor binding domain of human apoE on endocytosis in cultured rat cortical neurons. We have found that this tandem dimer repeat peptide induces neuronal endocytosis via a receptor associated protein sensitive pathway. Although the peptide induces a rise in cytoplasmic calcium, this is not required for the induction of endocytosis. On the other hand, normal processing of the endocytic vesicles does appear to require the elevation of cytoplasmic calcium, since inhibition of the calcium response results in the accumulation of large endocytic vesicles.
A major issue in designing drugs as antagonists at the glycine site of the NMDA receptor has been to achieve good in vivo activity. A series of 4-hydroxyquinolone glycine antagonists was found to be active in the DBA/2 mouse anticonvulsant assay, but improvements in in vitro affinity were not mirrored by corresponding increases in anticonvulsant activity. Here we show that binding of the compounds to plasma protein limits their brain penetration. Relative binding to the major plasma protein, albumin, was measured in two different ways: by a radioligand binding experiment or using an HPLC assay, for a wide structural range of glycine/NMDA site ligands. These measures of plasma protein binding correlate well (r = 0.84), and the HPLC assay has been used extensively to quantify plasma protein binding. For the 4-hydroxyquinolone series, binding to plasma protein correlates (r = 0.92) with log P (octanol/pH 7.4 buffer) over a range of log P values from 0 to 5. The anticonvulsant activity increases with in vitro affinity, but the slope of a plot of pED50 versus pIC50 is low (0.40); taking plasma protein binding into account in this plot increases the slope to 0.60. This shows that binding to albumin in plasma reduces the amount of compound free to diffuse across the blood-brain barrier. Further evidence comes from three other experiments: (a) Direct measurements of brain/blood ratios for three compounds (2, 16, 26) show the ratio decreases with increasing log R. (b) Warfarin, which competes for albumin binding sites dose-dependently, decreased the ED50 of 26 for protection against seizures induced by NMDLA. (c) Direct measurements of brain penetration using an in situ brain perfusion model in rat to measure the amount of drug crossing the blood-brain barrier showed that compounds 2, 26, and 32 penetrate the brain well in the absence of plasma protein, but this is greatly reduced when the drug is delivered in plasma. In the 4-hydroxyquinolones glycine site binding affinity increases with lipophilicity of the 3-substituent up to a maximum at a log P around 3, then does not improve further. When combined with increasing protein binding, this gives a parabolic relationship between predicted in vivo activity and log P, with a maximum log P value of 2.39. Finally, the plasma protein binding studies have been extended to other series of glycine site antagonists, and its is shown that for a given log P these have similar protein binding to the 4-hydroxyquinolones, except for compounds that are not acidic. The results have implications for the design of novel glycine site antagonists, and it is suggested that it is necessary to either keep log P low or pKa high to obtain good central nervous system activity.
The relation between recovery of function following a sciatic nerve crush lesion and an individual behavioural characteristic, the locomotor activity in an open field, was investigated in rats. Ten high-active (HA) and ten low-active (LA) rats were selected from a stock of sixty male, random-bred Wistar rats, by measuring travelled distance in an open field. Subsequently, both HA and LA rats underwent an unilateral sciatic nerve crush. Recovery of motor function revealed no significant differences between both groups, whereas recovery of sensory function in HA rats was significantly more rapid than in the LA rats (P &lt; 0.01). These observations suggest the existence of a relationship between individual behavioural characteristics, and the sensory recovery of nerve function following crush lesion in rats.
A new neurotoxin, named alpha-pompilidotoxin (alpha-PMTX) has been found in the venom of the solitary wasp Anoplius safnariensis. In the neuromuscular synapse of the lobster walking leg preparation, alpha-PMTX (10-100 micro/M) caused great enhancement of both the excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Recordings of the excitatory post synaptic currents (EPSCs) at the synaptic sites showed that alpha-PMTX reversibly and dose-dependently potentiates EPSCs. Alpha-PMTX may act primarily on the presynaptic membrane but the mode of action of the toxin is clearly different from other known facilitatory neurotoxins, such as alpha-latrotoxin, apamin or charybdotoxin. This novel toxin will serve as a useful tool in the research field of neuroscience.
Recent demonstration that the level of sympathetic nervous drive to the failing heart in patients with severe heart failure is a major determinant of prognosis, and that mortality in heart failure is decreased by beta-adrenergic blockade with carvedilol, indicates the clinical relevance of cardiac neuroscience research. Important initial findings were observations that the plasma concentration of the sympathetic neurotransmitter, norepinephrine, is elevated in heart failure, and that overall clinical outcome is related to plasma norepinephrine concentration (although heart failure severity may be a confounder). Sympathetic nerve recording (clinical microneurography) and radiotracer methods measuring regional sympathetic activity in the heart (cardiac norepinephrine &quot;spillover&quot;) have now largely supplanted antecubital venous norepinephrine measurements as research tools, with newer methods providing information on regional sympathetic function that was previously lacking. The cardiac sympathetic nerves are preferentially stimulated in severe heart failure, with norepinephrine release from the failing heart at rest in untreated patients increased up to 50-fold, which is similar to the level of release in healthy hearts during near maximal exercise. There is lesser stimulation of the sympathetic outflows to the kidneys and skeletal muscle. In early mild heart failure, it is only the cardiac sympathetic nerves that are activated. This preferential activation of cardiac sympathetic outflow contributes to arrhythmia development and probably to progression of heart failure and has been linked to mortality in mild and severe heart failure. The central nervous system mechanisms involved in the sympathetic nervous activation present in patients with heart failure remain uncertain. Increased intracardiac diastolic pressure seems to be one peripheral reflex stimulus with increased forebrain norepinephrine turnover being an important central mechanism.
The kinetics and pharmacology of the isoquinoline and benzodiazepine binding sites of the omega3 or peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors were studied using the specific ligands [3H] 7-chloro-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1,3-dihydro-1-methyl-2H-1,4-benzodiazepin -2-one ([3H]PK11195) and [3H]1-(2-Chlorophenyl)-N-methyl-N-(1-methylpropyl)-3-isoquinolinecarb oxamide ([3H]RO5-4864), respectively. Binding of both ligands was saturable, reversible, displayed nanomolar affinity, and best fit to a single site model. Occipital cortex and cerebellum displayed highest and lowest densities of binding sites respectively; for both ligands. Bmax values of [3H]PK11195 were several-fold higher than that of [3H]RO5-4864 in all regions studied consistent with their binding to distinct subunits of the human peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor heteromeric complex. However, the isoquinoline and benzodiazepine ligands were found to be mutually competitive at nanomolar concentrations suggesting allosteric interactions between these two sites. Competition binding experiments showed that the binding of both ligands was displaced by diazepam with Ki values in the nM range, and by clonazepam in the microM range. The novel peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor ligand 2-(4-fluorophenyl)-N,N-di-n-hexyl-1H-indole-3-acetamide (FGIN1-27) displaced only [3H]PK11195 binding with high potency. Heterogeneity of the two sites is observed, manifested by their differential susceptibility towards detergents and alcohols. Histidine residue modification by diethylpyrocarbonate treatment abolished only [3H]PK11195 binding but had no effect on [3H]RO5-4864 binding. These studies demonstrate that the isoquinoline and benzodiazepine sites on the peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor in human brain manifest many pharmacological characteristics that are distinct from each other and from rodent brain peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors.
Transmembrane signal transduction via heterotrimeric G proteins is reported to be inhibited by RGS (regulators of G-protein signalling) proteins. These RGS proteins work by increasing the GTPase activity of G protein alpha-subunits (G alpha), thereby driving G proteins into their inactive GDP-bound form. However, it is not known how RGS proteins regulate the kinetics of physiological responses that depend on G proteins. Here we report the isolation of a full-length complementary DNA encoding a neural-tissue-specific RGS protein, RGS8, and the determination of its function. We show that RGS8 binds preferentially to the alpha-subunits G(alpha)o and G(alpha)i3 and that it functions as a GTPase-activating protein (GAP). When co-expressed in Xenopus oocytes with a G-protein-coupled receptor and a G-protein-coupled inwardly rectifying K+ channel (GIRK1/2), RGS8 accelerated not only the turning off but also the turning on of the GIRK1/2 current upon receptor stimulation, without affecting the dose-response relationship. We conclude that RGS8 accelerates the modulation of G-protein-coupled channels and is not just a simple negative regulator. This property of RGS8 may be crucial for the rapid regulation of neuronal excitability upon stimulation of G-protein-coupled receptors.

The study's objective was to promote understanding of the integration of preclerkship learning in neuroscience, psychiatry, and neurology and to share the authors' experience with such a program. A dualism, which may have survived in the past for lack of robust evidence of mind-brain relationships, is now increasingly outmoded. Medical school education should reflect the increasing coherence to be found in these fields. The authors describe curricular and course innovations and revisions at Harvard Medical School that have been implemented in successive iterations over the past decade. These changes have depended upon multidisciplinary leadership, planning, and faculty participation, as well as faculty development and closer coordination between classroom- and hospital-based activity. A hybrid, problem-based block course in the second year integrates basic science with neurologic and psychiatric topics that are aligned with practice of relevant clinical skills. The authors have achieved a high level of integration and coordination of these subjects at preclerkship levels in the domains of both knowledge and skills. The students, as well as the faculty, strongly endorse an intellectually coherent and clinically relevant program of integrated preclerkship learning in neuroscience, psychiatry, and neurology.
Central neurogenic pruritus is a rare symptom of central nervous system lesions, such as brain strokes, spinal tumors and multiple sclerosis. Only 26 cases appear in the literature. A further case is added. On the basis of similar features, it is speculated that central pruritus and central pain share a common origin.
Alterations in the processing and patterns of trophic and/or toxic factors might lead to the increased neuronal vulnerability in the entorhinal cortex in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Lewy body variant (LBV). Therefore, patterns and levels of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and glutamate receptor (gluR) expression in the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus in relation to disease severity were investigated. Sections from the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex were single and double immunolabeled for APP, gluR2/3, and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDA-R). Within the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex, image analysis revealed progressively decreased APP and gluR2/3 levels during the course of AD and LBV, whereas levels of NMDA-R were unaltered. Furthermore, the present study showed a positive correlation and close co-localization of APP and gluR2/3 immunoreactivity in neurons, suggesting a possible interaction between these two factors. In conclusion, these data imply that alterations in neuronal APP and gluR2/3 expression in the entorhinal cortex lead to increased susceptibility to neurodegeneration and might be markers of vulnerability.
Although previous results have shown unequivocally that pre-ischaemic hyperglycaemia aggravates brain damage due to transient ischaemia, several questions have remained unanswered. First, is the effect of hyperglycaemia due to a further fall in intra- and extracellular pH? Second, is aggravation of damage a step function of a continuous function of plasma glucose concentration or of pH? Third, which are the mechanisms responsible for aggravation of damage, notably for the transformation of selective neuronal damage to infarction, for oedema development, and for post-ischaemic seizures? Recent results have provided new information on all of these issues. Thus, normoglycaemic animals with superimposed hypercapnia showed a similar, albeit not identical, aggravation of ischaemic damage, suggesting that acidosis is one major mediator. Furthermore, experiments with graded increase in plasma glucose concentration revealed a threshold effect at values of 10-12 mM, while microelectrode measurements showed a narrow extracellular pH range (6.4-6.5) for post-ischaemic seizure development. These results suggest that aggravation of damage due to excessive acidosis is due to mechanisms with a steep pH dependence. Finally, results are now at hand suggesting that the effect of acidosis is not mediated by a further perturbation of cell calcium metabolism. The more likely mediators are free radicals. Thus, acidosis is known to enhance iron-catalysed production of reactive oxygen species, probably by releasing iron from its bindings to transferrin, ferritin and other proteins.
The neurotoxic effect of acute ethanol treatment (AET) may lead to an alteration in the regulation of calcium (Ca2+) homeostasis in hippocampal neurons. Ca2+ homeostasis could be affected by AET when neurons are at rest or after depolarizing activity during synaptic transmission. It has been shown that nerve growth factor (NGF) can ameloriate some types of neurotoxicity by stabilizing Ca2+ homeostasis. Previously, we observed that ethanol (EtOH) changed unstimulated (basal) and potassium (K+)-stimulated intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) in embryonic septohippocampal neurons (Webb et al., Brain Res. 729:176-189, 1996). The purpose of the present study is to determine the effects of NGF and EtOH on neuronal Ca2+ homeostasis in cultured embryonic hippocampal neurons. The hypotheses tested were the following: EtOH alters Ca2+ homeostasis in hippocampal neurons; NGF modulates Ca2+ homeostasis in hippocampal neurons; and NGF treatment alters the effect of EtOH on [Ca2+]i in hippocampal neurons. Our results indicated that hippocampal neuronal cultures treated with EtOH had lower basal [Ca2+]i than untreated neurons. EtOH decreased K+-stimulated (30 mM KCI) changes in [Ca2+]i in a dose-dependent manner. During K+ stimulation, 20 ng/ml of NGF slowed and reduced the increase in [Ca2+]i. Hippocampal neurons treated with NGF increased or did not change basal [Ca2+]i and did not change or increase K+-stimulated [Ca2+]i in response to EtOH. These responses were dose-related and indicated that NGF could alter the response of hippocampal neurons to EtOH. In conclusion, AET results in the alteration of Ca2+ homeostasis in unstimulated and depolarized cultured embryonic hippocampal neurons. NGF and EtOH independently and collectively affected the regulation of Ca2+ homeostasis in this neuronal population. Changes in [Ca2+]i can disrupt normal cellular function and contribute to cell death. Therefore, alteration of Ca2+ homeostasis may be an underlying mechanism involved in EtOH toxicity. NGF may ameliorate the toxic effects of EtOH by regulating Ca2+ homeostasis.
A number of recent linkage studies have suggested the presence of a schizophrenia susceptibility locus on chromosome 6p. We evaluated 28 genetic markers, spanning chromosome 6, for linkage to schizophrenia in 10 moderately large Canadian families of Celtic ancestry. Parametric analyses of these families under autosomal dominant and recessive models, using broad and narrow definitions of schizophrenia, produced no significant evidence for linkage. A sib-pair analysis using categorical disease definitions also failed to produce significant evidence for linkage. We then conducted a separate sibpair analysis using scores on positive-symptom (psychotic), negative-symptom (deficit), and general psychopathology-symptom scales as quantitative traits. With the positive symptom-scale scores, the marker D6S1960 produced P = 1.2 x 10(-5) under two-point and P = 5.4 x 10(-6) under multipoint analyses. Using simulation studies, we determined that these nominal P values correspond to empirical P values of .034 and .0085, respectively. These results suggest that a schizophrenia susceptibility locus on chromosome 6p may be related to the severity of psychotic symptoms. Assessment of behavioral quantitative traits may provide increased power over categorical phenotype assignment for detection of linkage in complex psychiatric disorders.
Neuronal death affects selectively granule cell precursors of the cerebellum and the dopaminergic neurons of midbrain in the weaver mutant mouse. The weaver phenotype is associated with a missense mutation in the gene coding for the GIRK2 potassium channel, which results in chronic depolarization. Using DNA gel electrophoresis, electron microscopy (EM), the in situ end-labeling (ISEL) technique at the light and EM level, and immunohistochemistry for apoptosis-related proteins c-Jun and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), we have investigated the mechanisms of cell death in cerebellum and substantia nigra. Between postnatal day P1 and P21, in the external germinal layer of the cerebellum, most degenerating granule cell precursors were found to aggregate to form clusters. Degenerating cells exhibited strong nuclear staining for ISEL, c-Jun, and PCNA and had a typical apoptotic morphology by EM. Increased c-Jun and ISEL staining were also occasionally seen in Purkinje cells. Between P14 and P21, when dopaminergic neurons start to degenerate, staining for ISEL, c-Jun, and PCNA in weaver substantia nigra was the same as in controls. By EM, however, we found only in weaver mice numerous dopaminergic cells that showed extensive vacuolar and autophagic changes of cytoplasm, preservation of membrane and organelle integrity, and absence of chromatin condensation or DNA fragmentation by EM-ISEL. The combination of vacuolar and autophagic changes identifies a novel type of non-necrotic, nonapoptotic cell death. After biochemical analysis of DNA, a clear-cut laddering, suggestive of oligonucleosomal fragmentation, was present in samples from weaver cerebellum. Cell death diversity appears to be influenced by specific features of target cells. These findings may be relevant for understanding the mechanisms of cell death in neurodegenerative diseases.
University-based scientists are increasingly meeting the challenge to communicate with the public to improve general science literacy, explain their research to a lay audience, and recruit science students. At the University of Western Ontario, graduate student volunteers of Let's Talk Science have launched a project that introduces senior high school students to research presentations given by undergraduate physiology students. The project has given the undergraduate students an opportunity to present their work to an interested audience other than their peers or faculty, while it provides the high school students with positive role models and a greater awareness of postsecondary science. This project was judged a success by all participants, because many of the high school students became interested in physiology and claimed to be more confident in their ability to participate in science, and it also appeared to improve the presentation and communication skills of the undergraduates. This innovative and cost-efficient project is an effective way to demonstrate the excitement of physiology to potential future scientists while showing undergraduate students that public communication of science is not only important but can also be fun.
Peripheral administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) may activate the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis by way of both neural and humoral mechanisms. We have investigated whether biologically active endotoxin appears in the general circulation after intraperitoneal administration of LPS (5 or 100 micrograms/kg) to rats and whether this is a prerequisite for activation of this HPA axis. Within 15 min, endotoxin appeared in the general circulation, whereas elevations of plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), corticosterone, and interleukin (IL)-6 concentrations were not detected until 90 min after LPS injection. At this time, a marked interindividual variation was observed in plasma concentrations of endotoxin, ACTH, corticosterone, and IL-6. Elevated levels of plasma endotoxin were associated with elevated levels of ACTH, corticosterone, and IL-6. Intravenous administration of the LPS antagonist cationic antimicrobial protein 18 (5 mg/kg), which did not affect cytokine production in the peritoneal cavity, markedly reduced plasma ACTH, corticosterone, and IL-6 levels after 5 micrograms/kg LPS. Our results suggest that circulating endotoxin is required for the activation of the HPA axis. They also favor a role for circulating IL-6 in this response.

To determine the neuropathological substrate of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated neurocognitive disorders, we examined persons with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome before their death and related their antemortem neuropsychological performance to postmortem indicators of HIV encephalitis, viral burden, and presynaptic and postsynaptic neuronal injury. Of 20 prospectively examined cases, 9 were neurocognitively normal, 5 showed neuropsychological impairment, 5 had minor cognitive/motor disorder, and 1 was demented. Degree of neurocognitive impairment was strongly related to the amount of dendritic simplification based on microtubule-associated protein 2 immunohistochemical staining, somewhat less so to a semiquantitative viral burden score based on numbers of HIV gp41-immunoreactive cells, and much less so to the presence of multinucleated giant cells or microglial nodules. It appears that even milder neurocognitive impairment reflects microneuroanatomical injury to synaptic structures.

To clarify the role of autonomic nervous functions in cardiovascular adaptation to microgravity, heart rate variability (HRV) and blood pressure variability (BPV) were evaluated during thermoneutral head-out water immersion (HOI) of eight healthy young subjects 23 to 31 yr of age. The very low-frequency (VLF; 0.00-0.04 Hz) component of BPV tended to increase during HOI, whereas the low-frequency (LF; 0.04-0.15 Hz) component of BPV and the ratio of LF power to high-frequency (HF; 0.15-0.40 Hz) component (LF/HF ratio) of HRV decreased. The HF component of HRV increased in all the subjects during immersion up to the shoulder. Concomitantly, we found a decrease in heart rate and increases in stroke volume and cardiac output with no significant changes in BP and respiration rate during HOI. These results suggest that both vasomotor and cardiac sympathetic activities are suppressed and that the parasympathetic (vagal) activity is enhanced during HOI.
The creation of animal models of Gaucher's disease, the inherited deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase, has led to new clinical insights and to a new appreciation of the complexity of the glucocerebrosidase gene locus. Murine embryonic stem cells with targeted modifications in the glucocerebrosidase gene were used to generate mouse models of Gaucher's disease, the first having a null glucocerebrosidase allele. The resulting knockout mice have no glucocerebrosidase activity and die within 12 hours of birth. Ultrastructural studies of liver, spleen, brain and bone marrow demonstrate the characteristic storage material seen in Gaucher patients. In the nervous system, storage of lipid increased in a rostral-caudal distribution. Analysis of skin from the knockout mice revealed histological, ultrastructural and biochemical abnormalities. The null allele Gaucher mice are analogous to neonates with Type 2 Gaucher's disease who present with hydrops foetalis and/or congenital ichthyosis. Moreover, the epidermal changes seen in Type 2 mice are also found in Type 2 patients and may provide a means to presymptomatically discriminate Type 2 from Type 1 and 3 Gaucher's disease. Another targeted modification in the murine glucocerebrosidase gene locus led to the discovery of a contiguous gene, metaxin. Closer analysis of the glucocerebrosidase gene locus, including sequencing of 75 kb of genomic DNA, reveals that this is a gene-rich region coding for seven genes and two pseudogenes. Further study of these closely arrayed genes may contribute to our understanding of the clinical variation encountered among patients with Gaucher's disease.
We tested the hypothesis that during the initiation of stepping elicited by hypothalamic stimulation, hindlimb extension was coordinated with head extension in the sagittal plane. Chronic stimulation electrodes (monopolar stainless-steel, 125 microm diameter) were implanted bilaterally into the perifornical hypothalamus of anaesthetized rats (N = 15) under stereotaxic control. Under freely moving and awake conditions, 18 sites which reliably elicited forward locomotion at a latency of approximately 3 s were tested in a videotaping session. The locomotor stimulation was a constant current train of 5 s duration composed of biphasic pulses at 40-50 Hz. The videotape records were digitized at a sampling rate of 6 Hz for seven points on the rat: Nose, pinnae, midpoint of inter-pinnae line, right forepaw, right hindpaw and base of tail. A characteristic pattern of coordinated movements preceded, by approximately 0.5 s, the execution of the first locomotor step. The pattern included a movement of the pelvis in the anterior or superior direction that was produced by hindlimb extension and an extension of the neck forward along the sagittal plane. There was considerable flexibility in this pattern, but it was invariant to the extent that it occurred at a variety of latencies and after several types of head movements. Associated with the coordinated extensions of the neck and hindlimbs was a lowering of the head angle which had a more variable time course. These data indicate that there is significant coupling between the systems that produce hindlimb extension and control head position when the rat prepares to step.
Using anesthetized and immobilized monkeys, responses of neurons in the posterior inferotemporal cortex to visual patterns were examined. Response properties were compared between the sulcus and the gyrus, extending between the anterior tip of the posterior middle temporal sulcus and the inferior occipital sulcus. Of 682 neurons tested, 37% in the sulcus (134/365) and 36% in the gyrus (113/317) responded to one or more patterns. The preference of neurons for patterns varied from neuron to neuron; some neurons responded selectively to one particular pattern, whereas others responded to two or more patterns. To evaluate response properties of neurons, two indices were calculated (the pattern preference index and the pattern selectivity index). The distributions of these indices in the sulcus did not differ significantly from those of the gyrus. Furthermore, the relationship between the pattern preference index and the pattern selectivity index for each neuron was almost the same in these two portions; most neurons responding to a small number of patterns showed inhibitory or weak responses to the worst pattern. In both portions, most neurons had receptive fields with small eccentricities and receptive field sizes were almost the same. These results suggest that the cortex in the sulcus in the posterior inferotemporal cortex is involved in the detection of features of visual patterns, similarly to the cortex in the gyrus.
We previously reported that a human insulin transgene was specifically expressed in the medial habenula of the adult mouse brain, and that this expression was ascribed to the delta-168 transgene. The present study analyses the possible behavioural consequences of this insulin transgene expression using measures of food intake, spontaneous activity, emotional reactivity, learning and extinction performance of an operant task. The delta-168 transgenic mice did not differ from the C57BL/6 control mice as concerns food intake, behaviour in the open field, or emotional response in an elevated plus maze. On the other hand, measures of locomotor activity in a circular corridor revealed a significantly faster decline of spontaneous locomotor activity in male as compared to female delta-168 transgenic mice. Moreover, as compared to female transgenic mice, male transgenic mice exhibited a deficit in the rate of acquisition and an acceleration of the rate of extinction of a bar press response in a Skinner box. In contrast, the behaviour of female transgenic mice did not differ from either male or female C57BL/6 control mice. The results of the present study demonstrate that the behavioural modifications observed in delta-168 transgenic mice are sex-linked and suggest that these behavioural differences result from changes in the interaction (interface) between motivational and motor mechanisms mediated via the striato-habenulo-mesencephalic system.
The Montoya Staircase Test has been designed as a simple objective way of measuring changes in skilled movements following motor system damage. In the test, rats reach from a central platform for food pellets located on adjacent staircases and the measure of success is the number of food pellets obtained. As there has been no detailed behavioral analysis of how animals reach in this task, the present study evaluates reaching in the test by combining end point measures (success) with movement analysis based on video recordings. It is found that control rats locate food using olfaction and then reach using an identifiable sequence of movements, including (1) aiming the limb, (2) opening the digits in preparation for grasping, (3) grasping, and (4) supinating the paw, during limb withdrawal, to place food in the mouth. The nonreaching limbs adjust posture during the reaching sequence. Rats with unilateral DA-depletions show (1) severe impairments in success when using their contralateral-to-lesion limb (bad limb), (2) moderate impairments in using their ipsilateral-to-lesion limb (good limb), (3) abnormal reaching movements and posture, and (4) a variety of compensatory movements so as to enhance success. When success produced by compensatory adjustment is subtracted from total success, the DA-depleted rats show no recovery. The results confirm that the Staircase Test is a sensitive measure for motor system damage and demonstrate that when movement analysis is combined with end point measures, the test can dissociate impairment, recovery, and compensation.
Control rats and rats with fimbria-fornix (FF) lesions were tested in a foraging task that required that they emerge from either a visible or hidden home base onto an open field to hunt for food pellets, which they then carry back to the home base to eat. Once they were proficient at returning to a location, they and the home base were moved so that they emerged to forage from a new starting position. When the location of a visible home base was moved, both groups of rats learned to make accurate returns. When the location of a hidden home base was moved, control rats first carried the food to the old location and then accurately returned to the new location as their second choice. Thus, as early as a first 'reversal' trial, they displayed spatial memory for both locations while the FF rats perseverated in returning to the old location. In returning to familiar start points, the rats may use distal visual (allothetic) cues and piloting, while when returning to new start points they may use self-movement (ideothetic) cues and dead reckoning. That FF lesions dissociated the two kinds of navigation suggests a role for the hippocampus in navigation based on ideothetic cues.
Free recall and recognition are simulated in a network model of the hippocampal formation, incorporating simplified simulations of neurons, synaptic connections, and the effects of acetylcholine. Simulations focus on modeling the effects of the acetylcholine receptor blocker scopolamine on human memory. Systemic administration of scopolamine is modeled by blockade of the cellular effects of acetylcholine in the model, resulting in memory impairments replicating data from studies on human subjects. This blockade of cholinergic effects impairs the encoding of new input patterns (as measured by delayed free recall), but does not impair the delayed free recall of input patterns learned before the blockade. The impairment is selective to the free recall but not the recognition of items encoded under the influence of scopolamine. In the model, scopolamine blocks strengthening of recurrent connections in region CA3 to form attractor states for new items (encoding impaired) but allows recurrent excitation to drive the network into previously stored attractor states (retrieval spared). Neuron populations representing items (individual words) have weaker recurrent connections than neuron populations representing experimental context. When scopolamine further weakens the strength of recurrent connections it selectively prevents the subsequent reactivation of item attractor states by context input (impaired free recall) without impairing the subsequent reactivation of context attractor states by item input (spared recognition). This asymmetry in the strength of attractor states also allows simulation of the list-strength effect for free recall but not recognition. Simulation of a paired associate learning paradigm predicts that scopolamine should greatly enhance proactive interference due to retrieval of previously encoded associations during storage of new associations.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is operationally defined as a long-lasting increase in synaptic efficacy following high-frequency stimulation of afferent fibers. Since the first full description of the phenomenon in 1973, exploration of the mechanisms underlying LTP induction has been one of the most active areas of research in neuroscience. Of principal interest to those who study LTP, particularly in the mammalian hippocampus, is its presumed role in the establishment of stable memories, a role consistent with &quot;Hebbian&quot; descriptions of memory formation. Other characteristics of LTP, including its rapid induction, persistence, and correlation with natural brain rhythms. provide circumstantial support for this connection to memory storage. Nonetheless, there is little empirical evidence that directly links LTP to the storage of memories. In this target article we review a range of cellular and behavioral characteristics of LTP and evaluate whether they are consistent with the purported role of hippocampal LTP in memory formation. We suggest that much of the present focus on LTP reflects a preconception that LTP is a learning mechanism, although the empirical evidence often suggests that LTP is unsuitable for such a role. As an alternative to serving as a memory storage device, we propose that LTP may serve as a neural equivalent to an arousal or attention device in the brain. Accordingly, LTP may increase in a nonspecific way the effective salience of discrete external stimuli and may thereby facilitate the induction of memories at distant synapses. Other hypotheses regarding the functional utility of this intensely studied mechanism are conceivable; the intent of this target article is not to promote a single hypothesis but rather to stimulate discussion about the neural mechanisms underlying memory storage and to appraise whether LTP can be considered a viable candidate for such a mechanism.
Normal aging selectively impairs some forms of learning. For example, aging rabbits require more than twice as many trials to acquire 500-ms trace eyeblink conditioning than do young rabbits. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists also impair trace conditioning. The effects of daily D-cycloserine (DCS; a partial agonist of the NMDA receptor-glycine site) treatment were tested on trace conditioning of young or aging rabbits using a conservative quantitative approach. DCS dose dependently improved acquisition, maximally reducing trials to criterion by approximately 50%. Dose-response curves were right-shifted by aging (twice the dose was required to achieve the same enhancement compared with controls). DCS did not affect nonassociative performance but sharpened the conditioned stimulus tone intensity discrimination. DCS thus can functionally modulate NMDA receptors in normal aging, enhance associative learning at all ages, and reduce or reverse age-dependent learning deficits.
The contextual specificity of appetitive conditioned responding was examined in rats undergoing chronic intracerebroventricular infusion of 15 or 30 mM D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5) or with excitotoxic hippocampal lesions. The magnitude of conditioned responding by control rats and rats infused with D-AP5 to a conditioned stimulus (CS) trained in Context A was attenuated when the same stimulus was presented in Context B. By contrast, hippocampal-lesioned rats displayed comparable levels of responding to the CS when presented in either Context A or B. Subsequent in vivo electrophysiological investigations showed that the D-AP5 concentrations were effective in blocking long-term potentiation (LTP) in the dentate gyrus. Results indicate that rats are capable of processing contextual information in the absence of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent LTP and demonstrate an important dissociation between the effects of hippocampal lesions and the blockade of NMDA receptors in the hippocampus.
Although neither the genome nor the environment can be manipulated in research on human behaviour, some of the new tools of molecular genetics can be brought to bear on human behavioural disorders (e.g. cognitive disabilities) and quantitative traits (e.g. cognitive abilities). The inability to manipulate the human genome experimentally has had the positive effect of focusing attention on naturally occurring genetic variation responsible for behavioural differences among individuals in all their complex multifactorial splendour. Genes in such complex multiple-gene systems are called quantitative trait loci (QTLs), which merge the two worlds of genetic research, quantitative genetics and molecular genetics. Although most genetic research on complex human behaviour has focused on severe mental disorders, cognitive abilities and disabilities may be even more immediately relevant to neuroscience. For example, verbal ability and spatial ability are two of the most heritable cognitive abilities, and reading disability is the first behavioural disability for which replicated QTL linkage has been found. The purpose of this essay is to provide an overview of the genetics of cognitive abilities and disabilities as an example of the impending merger of quantitative genetics and molecular genetics in QTL analysis of complex traits.
The early gene knockout studies with a neurobiological focus were directed at fairly obvious target genes and added very little to our knowledge of behavioural neuroscience. On the contrary, since the behavioural consequences were often predictable, this helped confirm that the technology was working. However, a substantial number of knockouts of genes expressed in the brain have been without obvious behavioural consequences, supporting the concept of genetic canalisation and redundancy. Others have produced a behavioural deficit for which there is no obvious explanation. Many cells of different tissue types have a capacity for memory, and in the brain, cells of the hippocampus are important for spatial learning and memory. Deleting genes that are expressed in the hippocampus has received considerable attention in this behavioural context. Although the initial studies experienced problems of interpretation, considerable advances have since been made. Knockout mice are now subject to tests of different forms of learning, multicellular hippocampal recordings, and restricted gene deletion specific to cells of component regions. This multi-level approach is proving more informative. Nevertheless, there is still a need to recognise that behavioural expression is several steps removed from gene expression, and that the relationship between genes and behaviour can be reciprocal.

We review the epidemiological and clinical features of ependymomas as described in published series as well as the effect on outcome of various treatment strategies.
1. The effects of five structurally dissimilar general anaesthetics were examined in voltage-clamp recordings of agonist-evoked currents mediated by recombinant gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptors composed of human alpha 1 beta 1 and gamma 2L subunits expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. A quantitative comparison of the effects of these agents was made upon recombinant glycine receptors expressed as a homo-oligomer of human alpha 1 subunits, or as a hetero-oligomer of human alpha 1 and rat beta subunits. 2. Complementary RNA-injected oocytes expressing GABAA receptors responded to bath applied GABA with an EC50 of 158 +/- 34 microM. Oocytes expressing alpha 1 and alpha 1 beta glycine receptors subsequent to cDNA injection displayed EC50 values of 76 +/- 2 microM and 66 +/- 2 microM, respectively, in response to bath applied glycine. 3. Picrotoxin antagonized responses mediated by homo-oligomeric alpha 1 glycine receptors with an IC50 of 4.2 +/- 0.8 microM. Hetero-oligomeric alpha 1 beta glycine receptors were at least 100-fold less sensitive to blockade by picrotoxin. 4. With the appropriate agonist EC10, propofol enhanced GABA and glycine-evoked currents to approximately the maximal response produced by a saturating concentration of either agonist (i.e. Imax). The calculated EC50 values were 2.3 +/- 0.2 microM, 16 +/- 3 microM and 27 +/- 2 microM, for GABAA alpha 1 beta 1 gamma 2L, glycine alpha 1 and alpha 1 beta receptors, respectively. At relatively high concentrations, propofol was observed to activate directly both GABAA and glycine receptors. 5. Pentobarbitone potentiated GABA-evoked currents to 117 +/- 8.5% of Imax with an EC50 of 65 +/- 3 microM. The barbiturate also produced a substantial enhancement of the glycine-evoked currents, Imax and EC50 values being 71 +/- 2% and 845 +/- 66 microM and 51 +/- 10% and 757 +/- 30 microM for homomeric alpha 1 and heteromeric alpha 1 beta glycine receptors respectively. At high concentrations, pentobarbitone directly activated GABAA, but not glycine, receptors. 6. The potentiation by propofol or pentobarbitone of currents mediated by alpha 1 homo-oligomeric glycine receptors was in both cases associated with a parallel sinistral shift of the glycine concentration-effect curve. The effects of binary combinations of pentobarbitone and propofol at maximally effective concentrations were mutually occlusive suggesting a common site, or mechanism, of action. 7. GABA-evoked currents were maximally potentiated by etomidate to 79 +/- 2% of Imax (EC50 of 8.1 +/- 0.9 microM). By contrast, glycine-induced currents mediated by alpha 1 and alpha 1 beta glycine receptor isoforms were enhanced only to 29 +/- 4% and 28 +/- 3% of Imax. Limited solubility precluded the calculation of EC50 values for the effect of etomidate at glycine receptors. None of the receptor isoforms examined were directly activated by etomidate. 8. The neurosteroid 5 alpha-pregnan-3 alpha-ol-20-one potentiated GABA-evoked currents to 69 +/- 4% of Imax, with an EC50 value of 89 +/- 6 nM. In contrast, both alpha 1 homo-oligomeric and alpha 1 beta hetero-oligomeric glycine receptors were insensitive to the action of this steroid. A direct agonist action of the steroid was discernible at GABAA, but not glycine, receptors. 9. Trichloroethanol, the active metabolite of the general anaesthetic chloral hydrate, enhanced glycine-evoked currents to 77 +/- 10% and 94 +/- 4% of Imax on alpha 1 and alpha 1 beta glycine receptors, with EC50 values of 3.5 +/- 0.1 mM and 5.9 +/- 0.3 mM respectively. On GABAA receptors, trichloroethanol had a lower maximum enhancement (52 +/- 5% of Imax), but a slightly higher potency (EC50 1.0 +/- 0.1 mM). Trichloroethanol activated neither GABAA, nor glycine, receptors. 10. The data demonstrate a variety of intravenous general anaesthetic agents, at clinically relevant concentrations, to augment preferentially GABA-evoked currents mediated by the alpha1beta1upsilon2L receptor subunit combination as compared to their effects on both alpha1 and alpha1beta glycine receptors. However, the presence on glycine receptors of lower affinity modulatory binding sites for pentobarbitone, propofol and trichloroethanol may aid in the identification of the molecular determinants of the CNS actions of these anaesthetics.
1. Purinergic and adrenergic components of sympathetic neurotransmission and contractile responses to exogenous alpha,beta-methylene ATP and noradrenaline have been investigated in the seminal vesicles of 1-day (new-born), 2-weeks (young), 12-weeks (adult) and 2-years old (aged) guinea-pigs. 2. In seminal vesicles of new-born guinea-pigs electrical field stimulation (EFS; 80 V, 0.5 ms for 30 s, 2-32 Hz) evoked tonic frequency-related contractions. In 2-weeks old guinea-pigs the tonic contraction masked an initial phasic component of the neurogenic responses, whereas in 12-weeks and 2-years old guinea-pigs, neurogenic responses were biphasic, a phasic response being followed by a tonic contraction. In all experimental groups, prazosin (10(-6) M) blocked the tonic contraction while desensitization of P2X receptors by alpha,beta-methylene ATP (10(-4) M) abolished the phasic responses. 3. The phasic purinergic component of the neurogenic response was significantly higher in 12-weeks and 2-years old animals, compared with 2-weeks old guinea-pigs. At 32 Hz phasic contractions were (mN mg(-1) tissue): 0.047+/-0.012, 0.018+/-0.040 and 0.147+/-0.026 in 2-weeks, 12-weeks and 2-years old guinea-pigs, respectively. In contrast, the tonic adrenergic component of the neurogenic contraction significantly declined at 12-weeks and 2-years compared with 2-weeks old guinea-pigs. 4. Contractile responses (mN mg(-1) tissue) to the highest concentration of alpha,beta-methylene ATP tested were significantly higher in 2-weeks (0.248+/-0.022) than in 1-day old animals (0.113+/-0.012) and decreased in 12-weeks (0.163+/-0.016) and 2-years old guinea-pigs (0.200+/-0.008). The pD2 values for the purinoceptor agonist were also significantly lower in adult (4.74+/-0.20) and aged guinea-pigs (5.22+/-0.08) compared with 2-weeks old animals (5.91+/-0.27). Conversely, responses to the highest concentration of noradrenaline gradually decreased with age, without significant changes in the pD2 values. Contractile responses to KCl (240 mM) did not differ significantly between the experimental groups. 5. These results demonstrate age-related changes in purinergic and adrenergic components of sympathetic neurotransmission in the guinea-pig seminal vesicles. The purinergic component is absent in new-born animals and it appears fully developed in adult and old guinea-pigs, while the adrenergic component decreases with age. Pre- and postjunctional mechanisms contributing to the age-related changes of sympathetic neurotransmission are discussed.
The expression of microtubule-associated protein 5 (MAP5) in the developing human brain was studied by means of an immunohistochemical method. In the cerebellum, MAP5 immunoreactivity appeared in the molecular layer and subcortical white matter from the early fetal age of 13 gestational weeks (GW), and temporally increased in the outer halves of the molecular layer and subcortical white matter at 36 GW to 2 months of age and 20 to 22 GW, respectively. In the cerebrum, it already appeared in the molecular layer and subcortical white matter from 13 GW, and was marked at 20 to 26 GW and 24 to 32 GW, respectively. Cortical pyramidal neurons gradually became immunoreactive from 28 GW to adolescence. Ependymal cilia were markedly positive in ventricular wall in all ages. In Western blot analyses, MAP5 showed two separate molecular weight bands. In the fetal period 320 kDa protein was prominent, but 300 kDa protein could be detected only at 11 years of age. Thus MAP5 was markedly expressed in growing axon in the fetal period and may be essential for the elongation and maturation as well as the function maintenance of axons and dendrites in developing human brain.
This protocol describes the acquisition and evaluation of saccadic eye movement data for use in basic neuroscience research and clinical application. The experimental protocol requires the subject to make saccadic eye movements in response to visual stimuli presented, in random order, on consecutive trials. The gap and overlap paradigms are described together with the instruction to generate pro- or antisaccades. The protocol includes the description of saccade detection, the determination of the beginning, the end, the size, and the velocity of a saccade, the exact way of calculating the proportion of different kinds of trials, and the treatment of erratic or artifact trials. Relevant variables are defined. The results obtained from a large number (300) of subjects of different ages (8-65 years) are described and analysed with respect to their development with age. The protocol allows to test a subject's saccadic status in many different circumstances in particular with respect to diagnostic help in neurology, psychiatry and psychology.
In this paper we discuss a stereological technique, 'the unfolding method', for a quantitative study of the nervous system [1,31]. Stereology implies a geometric analysis of structures and textures, and is a method to derive directly metric properties of structures from two-dimensional sections on the basis of geometrico-statistical reasoning [36,37]. Recent advances in the stereological method allow quantitative analysis [8,19,27,32]. Images on sections provide only two-dimensional information, but the stereological method can offer three-dimensional and quantitative information [19]. The need for quantitative analysis is more important and useful in the central nervous system (CNS) than in other organs. Two functional units, neurons and synapses, are of particular interest in evaluating CNS function. Numerical densities of neurons and synapses in rat visual cortex were estimated using the unfolding method at light and electron microscopic levels, respectively. Once the numerical densities of neurons and synapses were obtained, synapse-to-neuron ratios could be calculated. The ratios are interpreted as a means to obtain an index of interneuronal connectivity [9]. The unfolding method may become a powerful strategy in neuroscience research when numerical estimates are performed in restricted areas such as cortical layers II-IV, because this method is less time-consuming than other stereological methods [6,21,22].
Whole-cell recordings from 6.5 day embryonic chick alpha-motoneurons indicated the presence of AMPA, kainate, and NMDA glutamate receptor subtypes in each motoneuron tested. AMPA consistently evoked a desensitizing response, while kainate could evoke either a desensitizing or non-desensitizing whole-cell response. In excised membrane patches, desensitizing AMPA responses appeared to be colocalized with non-desensitizing kainate responses. Desensitizing kainate responses were seen in some patches which were not responsive to AMPA, suggesting that kainate selective subunits and AMPA selective subunits localize separately on the motoneuron membrane. To determine which of the known glutamate receptor subunits might underlie these responses, we used RT-PCR amplification to detect subunits present in mRNA isolated from adult rat spinal cord and from a highly enriched motoneuron population from embryonic chick. Sequencing of the amplified cDNA was used to verify the identity of the products and of the alternative splice variants of GluR1-4. In rat spinal cord, all subunits that we attempted to detect, including AMPA selective subunits GluR1-4, kainate selective subunits GluR5-7 and KA1-2, and NMDA subunit NR1 were present. The isolated motoneurons also contained AMPA subunits GluR1, 2, and 4, and kainate subunits GluR6 and 7. The GluR2 and 4 subunits were specifically processed by splicing, present primarily as the flip splice form.
Estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P) play different roles in generating the preovulatory surge release of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). Results of our previous studies suggest that at least some of these steroid-specific effects may be mediated by beta-endorphinergic neurons. However, it is also possible that E2 and P differentially regulate responsiveness to opioids by altering mu-opioid receptor gene expression. To test this hypothesis, we used quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH) to measure the effects of E2 and P on mu-opioid receptor mRNA levels in cells of the preoptic area (POA) and arcuate nucleus (Arc). We examined several groups of animals in the morning and afternoon on the day of LH surge release: (1) 1-week ovariectomized (OVX) rats with or without E2 treatment sacrificed between 09:00 and 09:30 h (48 h after E2 capsules inserted); (2) OVX with or without E2 treatment sacrificed between 15:30 and 16:00 h; and (3) OVX with both E2 and P treatment sacrificed between 15:30 and 16:00 h (approximately 54 h after E2 and 6 h after P administration). We found that E2 had no effect on morning or afternoon levels of mu-opioid receptor mRNA levels in either the POA or Arc. In contrast, P treatment increased afternoon levels of mu-opioid receptor mRNA in both regions. These findings indicate that differential effects of E2 and P on LH-RH release may be mediated by steroid-specific effects on mu-opioid receptor gene expression in neurons of the POA and/or Arc.
1. There are numerous sites in the nervous system where steroid hormones dramatically influence development. Increasing interest in mechanisms in neural development is providing avenues for understanding how gonadal steroids alter the ontogeny of these regions during sexual differentiation. 2. An increasing number of researchers are examining effects of gonadal steroids on neurite outgrowth, cell differentiation, cell death, cell migration, and synaptogenesis. The interrelated timing of these events may be a key aspect influenced by gonadal steroids throughout development. 3. The preoptic area and hypothalamus are characteristically heterogeneous in terms of cell type (e.g., different neuropeptides) and cell derivation. Perhaps a major reason for the ontogeny of sexual differences in the preoptic area and hypothalamus lies in the convergence of many different cell types from diverse sources (i.e., proliferative zones surrounding the lateral and third ventricles, and the olfactory placodes) that can be influenced in an interactive manner by gonadal steroid mechanisms. 4. The characterization of multiple mechanisms (e.g., trophic, migratory, apoptotic, fate, etc.,) that contribute to permanent changes in brain structure and ultimately function is essential for unraveling the process of sexual differentiation.
Target-derived neurotrophins support and sustain peripheral sensory neurons during development. In addition, it has been suggested that these growth factors could have developmental functions in non-neuronal tissues. To further elucidate the possible roles of neurotrophins in tooth morphogenesis and innervation, we have used in-situ hybridization to determine the specific sites of neurotrophin gene activity in pre- and postnatal rat jaws from E16 to P7. All four neurotrophins were expressed during tooth development with specific temporospatial patterns. Nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNAs were mainly detected in the dental papilla/pulp in postnatal animals, and the pattern of expression correlated with the onset of dental innervation. In contrast, neurotrophin 3 (NT3) and neurotrophin 4 (NT4) mRNA expression patterns were predominantly epithelial and were strongest during early developmental stages when teeth are not yet innervated. Dental papilla NGF-mRNA expression was first seen in both epithelium and mesenchyme and later shifted to the odontoblast layer and the subodontoblast zone. BDNF-mRNA labeling was present in low levels in the early dental organ, but increased in the pulp and in the odontoblast cell layer of the developing teeth at later developmental stages. Both NT3 and NT4 mRNA were observed in the prenatal oral epithelium and the inner dental epithelium. NT3-mRNA labeling was seen mainly in the cervical loop region, fissure system depressions and cuspal tops, while NT4 mRNA was more evenly distributed in the dental epithelium. At P7, NT3-mRNA labeling was below detection level and NT4 mRNA expression was lower than at prior stages. Complementary to reports on the presence of low-affinity neurotrophin receptor (LANR), trkB and trkC mRNA in the developing teeth, our results suggest that neurotrophins may have multiple functions during tooth morphogenesis. Neurotrophins might participate in epithelial-mesenchymal interactions in early tooth morphogenetic events such as proliferation and differentiation of epithelial and mesenchymal cells. In addition, based on mRNA localization in postnatal animals, we also suggest that NGF and BDNF (beside glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor) might participate in establishing and maintaining the innervation of the teeth, thus acting as classical neurotrophic factors.
Sumatriptan, a 5HT1B/1D-receptor agonist, is clinically effective as an antimigraine agent. Its therapeutic action may result partly from vasoconstriction of excessively dilated cranial blood vessels (a 5HT1B-receptor mediated response). The antimigraine activity of sumatriptan may also result from inhibition of the release of vasoactive neuropeptides from trigeminal sensory fibres within the meninges. The identity of the 5HT1B/1D-receptor subtype mediating this effect is unknown. Using 5HT1D- and 5HT1B-receptor-specific antibodies we have demonstrated a differential distribution of these receptor subtypes within the human trigemino-cerebrovascular system. Only 5HT1B-receptor protein was detected on dural arteries. In contrast, only 5HT1D-receptor protein was detected on trigeminal sensory neurones including peripheral and central projections to dural blood vessels and to the medulla. Within the medulla 5HT1D-receptor protein was confined to discrete areas associated with the trigeminal sensory system. These findings have important implications for the design of new antimigraine drugs.
Ionic perturbations occur during cortical spreading depression (SD), a phenomenon implicated in migraine pathophysiology. We studied the effect of 0.2, 2 and 20 mg kg-1 i.v. (n=4) furosemide on cortical direct current (d.c.) potential, cerebrovascular laser Doppler flux (rCBF[LDF]), artery diameter and NO concentration in the parietal cortex of the anaesthetized cat during repetitive SD. In vehicle-treated animals (n=4), SD activity was sustained for 50+/-1.8 min. However, duration of SD activity was significantly reduced when compared to vehicle to 39+/-6.6 (n=4), 34+/-8.5 (n=4) and 27.3+/-11.3 min (n=4), at 0.2, 2 and 20 mg kg-1 i.v. furosemide respectively. It is hypothesized that the mechanism of inhibition of SD d.c. activity by furosemide may be through alterations in cortical ion buffering capacity or inhibition of cell swelling in neurones or glia. These mechanisms may represent potential novel drug targets in future migraine therapy.
Focal brain damage occurring early in development can have widespread repercussions throughout the developing brain. In living adult rhesus monkeys, we studied the long-term effects of early mesial temporo-limbic (MTL) lesions on prefrontal cortex (PFC) neurons using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (1H-MRSI), an in vivo neurochemical assay technique for measuring signals from metabolites such as N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA, a neuronal marker), choline-containing compounds (CHO) and creatine + phosphocreatine (CRE). Six monkeys (NL) had undergone surgical ablation of MTL structures within 3 weeks of birth, six monkeys received the same lesion at approximately 5 years of age and six monkeys were normal controls. We found significant bilateral reductions of NAA relative signals exclusively in the PFC of the NL group in comparison with either of the other groups. Our results indicate that neonatal MTL damage specifically affects PFC neurons of adult monkeys as indicated by a reduction of NAA. The basis of this effect involves developmental processes as implicated by two arguments: analogous damage during adulthood does not have the same effect; NAA in the healthy brain increases during development. This finding may have implications for understanding developmental aspects of prefrontal-temporolimbic connectivity, and the reduction of NAA levels observed in prefrontal cortex of patients with schizophrenia.
The entorhinal cortex (ERC) has been implicated in schizophrenia by a number of studies. There is anatomical observation of neuronal heterotopias in the rostral ERC, which is consistent with a hypothesis of neurodevelopmental abnormalities in this disease. In view of the significant cytoarchitectonic variation of the ERC throughout its rostro-caudal extent, we performed a detailed subareal analysis of the rostral two-thirds of the entorhinal cortex (ERCr) in 14 postmortem schizophrenic brains and 14 matched controls (mean ages of 48 and 47 respectively). This systematic evaluation included both a qualitative microscopic analysis of morphogenetic anomalies that would be consistent with neurodevelopmental pathology and quantitative measurements of total neuronal number, average neuronal density, laminar volume and laminar depth from the cortical surface in cytoarchitectonically matched subareas of schizophrenic and control brains. Parcellation of the entire ERC on the basis of cytoarchitectonic criteria identified five distinct regions, similar to those described in the macaque, except that in the human brain three of the regions were further divisible into two or three subareas, yielding nine distinct cellular compartments. Five rostral areas, prorhinal (Pr), lateral (28L), intermediate rostral and caudal (281r and 281c), and sulcal (28S), comprise the ERCr. Gross and microscopic examination of these subdivisions throughout the ERCr failed to reveal laminar disorganization in any of the schizophrenic brains. The brains also did not differ significantly with respect to total neuronal number, total volume and neuronal density per laminar and subareal subdivision, or laminar thickness per entorhinal subarea. However, neuronal number and density were reduced by 12-18% in Pr and 28L, suggesting that mild quantitative abnormalities may exist in the ERCr and might possibly be revealed in a larger sample of schizophrenic brains. We have failed to confirm previous reports of laminar disorganization in the ERCr in brains of patients with schizophrenia; to the extent that this region is implicated in schizophrenia, the structural changes are likely to consist of more subtle cellular disturbances.
The entorhinal cortex (ERC) has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia and other disorders affecting cognitive functions. While powerful anatomical and histochemical methods (immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization, etc.) may be applied (although with limitations) to postmortem human brain, each analysis should utilize a cytoarchitectonic approach to provide appropriate comparisons within the subdivisions of the ERC. Accordingly, we describe here the normal cyto- and myeloarchitecture of the human ERC as a prerequisite for the accompanying study of this region in schizophrenia. Our parcellation of this cortex differs from previous treatments in three ways. First, we adopted specific criteria of inclusion to define each subdivision of the region. Although distinctive ERC features are most prominent in the intermediate portion of this region, at least one of these features was considered the minimum necessary criterion to include adjacent tissue in the entorhinal area. Second, we used morphometric measurements (neuronal size and density as well as subdivisional volume and laminar thickness) to support our qualitative evaluation. Third, we have applied to the human ERC the conventional cytoarchitectonic nomenclature of the entorhinal cortex used previously in studies of non-human primates. This allows a more accurate extrapolation of the available numerous experimental anatomical, physiological and psychological data on this region to the human. As in the monkey, the five main subareas were recognized in the human (prorhinal, lateral, intermediate, sulcal and medial) but three required further subdivision (intermediate, sulcal and medial). The morphometric results obtained suggested a progression of the human entorhinal cortex from the peripheral to the central subareas, with the intermediate subarea (281) as the most complete entorhinal subdivision. Compared with non-human primates, the human ERC not only retains the basic periallocortical organization but also demonstrates further evolution. Taken together with available experimental data on the connectivity of this brain region, these results provide an anatomical basis for evaluating the ERC in human behavior.
Information on long-term memory for common odors is discussed. Olfactory parameters (i.e. familiarity, recognition, identification) and their relationship to current memory theory are highlighted. Emphasis is focused on the impact of semantic memory on episodic odor recognition. In contrast to previous research suggesting that verbal/semantic factors play a negligible role in olfactory memory, the present review indicates that episodic odor information is mediated by factors that can be subsumed under the rubric of semantic memory. Specific odor knowledge, such as perceived familiarity and identifiability, is strongly and positively related to episodic odor memory performance. Age-related impairments in various olfactory and cognitive parameters and the potential detrimental effects in episodic odor memory are discussed. Finally, the issue of whether olfactory memory should be conceptualized as an independent process, or whether it shares characteristics with memory for verbal and visual information, is addressed.

A patient suffering from semantic dementia is described who consistently demonstrated the preserved ability to support specific types of semantic judgements from visual, but not from verbal, input. In addition the representations accessed from visual input were found to trigger complex behavioural schemata, while with verbal materials the patients performed almost invariably at chance level. A preliminary description is given of the nature of visual semantic representations, and the privileged relationship between this modality of input and some aspects of semantic knowledge is also explored. The richness of the semantic representations accessed from visual input can be accommodated within the &quot;Multimodal Semantics&quot; framework; alternative views, derived from the Identification Semantics and the Organized Unitary Content Hypothesis, are also discussed.

An important aspect of nursing care is to assist patients in the process of adaptation as proposed by Roy. An individual's response to the diagnosis of stroke and the everchanging environment affords the nurse a tremendous opportunity to assess the patient and factors that may ultimately influence quality of living. Given the devastating consequences of stroke, the efforts directed at improving patient compliance are well placed. Nurses have the opportunity to teach those patients under their direct care as well as those individuals in the community setting. Nurses can also play an instrumental role in health promotion strategies, incorporating lifestyle modifications as well as information based on medication therapy. Taking advantage of professional organizations such as the National Stroke Association, the American Heart Association, and the multiple neuroscience organizations who have developed the Brain Attack Coalition, materials can be accessed and used for acute care and community health education programs. Acute care nurses interact with a variety of women on a daily basis. Each patient presents with her unique physiology and associated risk factors. Acute care nurses must be attuned to these factors and be ready to intervene with assessment, education, and collaboration with the health care team in order to reduce the incidence of stroke in women.

Many of the mutations and genetic variants that affect behavior in Drosophila have proved to be mild lesions of genes that are capable of more severe phenotypes. Examples of such variants affecting ion channels, transcription factors and protein kinases in studies of courtship and learning have anticipated recent findings on the naturally occurring variants in circadian rhythms and foraging.
Central processing of inertial sensory information about head attitude and motion in space is crucial for motor control. Vestibular signals are coded relative to a non-inertial system, the head, that is virtually continuously in motion. Evidence for transformation of vestibular signals from head-fixed sensory coordinates to gravity-centered coordinates have been provided by studies of the vestibulo-ocular reflex. The underlying central processing depends on otolith afferent information that needs to be resolved in terms of head translation related inertial forces and head attitude dependent pull of gravity. Theoretical solutions have been suggested, but experimental evidence is still scarce. It appears, along these lines, that gaze control systems are intimately linked to motor control of head attitude and posture.
The activity of brain serotonergic neurons in both the pontine-mesencephalic and medullary groups is positively correlated with the level of behavioral arousal and/or the behavioral state. This, in turn, appears to be related to the level of tonic motor activity, especially as manifested in antigravity muscles and other muscle groups associated with gross motor activity. In addition, a subset of serotonergic neurons displays a further increase in activity in association with repetitive, central pattern generator mediated responses. Accumulating evidence indicates that this relation to motor activity is related both to the co-activation of the sympathetic nervous system and to the modulation of afferent inputs.
The relationship between brief loss of consciousness, subsequent cognitive and emotional complaints, and impact on daily functioning continues to be hotly debated. The weight of current evidence suggests that uncomplicated minor head injury can cause acute cognitive impairment that is organic in aetiology, but late onset or persisting symptoms result from a psychological response. Traditionally, loss of consciousness has been a prerequisite for the definition of minor head injury but this has been challenged in recent years, although evidence does no more than draw attention to this question. Evidence to support the view that post-traumatic stress disorder can develop after head injury continues to grow. Outcomes in unselected mild head injury patients who attend hospital are not improved by provision of early follow-up.
The eye-antennal imaginal discs of Drosophila melanogaster form the head capsule of the adult fly. Unlike the limb primordia, each eye-antennal disc gives rise to morphologically and functionally distinct structures. As a result, these discs provide an excellent model system for determining how the fates of primordia are specified during development. In this study, we investigated how the adjacent primordia of the compound eye and dorsal head vertex are specified. We show that the genes wingless (wg) and orthodenticle (otd) are expressed throughout the entire second instar eye-antennal disc, conferring a default fate of dorsal vertex cuticle. Activation of decapentaplegic (dpp) expression in the posterior eye disc eliminates wg and otd expression, thereby permitting eye differentiation. We also demonstrate that otd is activated by wg in the vertex primordium. Finally, we show that early activation of dpp depends on hedgehog (hh) expression in the eye anlage prior to morphogenetic furrow formation.
The hypothesis that the intracranial EEG has local structure and short-term non-stationarity is tested with a little-studied measure of non-linear phase coupling, the bicoherence in human subdural and deep temporal lobe probe data from 11 subjects during sleeping, waking and seizure states. This measure of cooperativity estimates the proportion of energy in every possible pair of frequency components, F1, F2 (from 1 to 50 Hz in this study), that satisfies the definition of quadratic phase coupling (phase of component at F3, which is F1 + F2, equals phase of F1 + phase of F2). Derived from the bispectrum, which segregates the non-Gaussian energy, auto-bicoherence uses the frequency components in one channel; cross-bicoherence uses one channel for F1 and F2 and another for F3. These higher order spectra are used in physical systems for detection of episodes of non-linearity and transients, for pattern recognition and robust classification, relatively immune to Gaussian components and low signal to noise ratios. Bicoherence is found not to be a fixed character of the EEG but quite local and unstable, in agreement with the hypothesis. Bicoherence can be quite different in adjacent segments as brief as 1.6 s as well as adjacent intracranial electrodes as close as 6.5 mm, even when the EEG looks similar. It can rise or fall steeply within millimeters. It is virtually absent in many analysis epochs of 17s duration. Other epochs show significant bicoherence with diverse form and distribution over the bifrequency plane. Isolated peaks, periodic peaks or rounded mountain ranges are either widely scattered or confined to one or a few parts of the plane. Bicoherence is generally an invisible feature: one cannot usually recognize the responsible form of non-linearity or any obvious correlate in the raw EEG. During stage II/III sleep overall mean bicoherence is generally higher than in the waking state. During seizures the diverse EEG patterns average a significant elevation in bicoherence but have a wide variance. Maximum bispectrum, maximum power spectrum, maximum and mean bicoherence, skewness and asymmetry all vary independently of each other. Cross-bicoherence is often intermediate between the two auto-bicoherence spectra but commonly resembles one of the two. Of the known factors that contribute to bicoherence, transient as distinct from ongoing wave forms can be more important in our data sets. This measure of non-linear higher moments is very sensitive to weak quadratic phase coupling; this can come from several kinds of waveforms. New methods are needed to evaluate their respective contributions. Utility of this descriptor cannot be claimed before more carefully defined and repeatable brain states are studied.
Staffing patterns for intraoperative EEG and somatosensory evoked potential monitoring were assessed in a survey of 150 US board certified clinical neurophysiologists. Whether or not a clinical neurophysiology physician needs to be in the operating room throughout monitoring has been a point of disagreement and debate. The data here provide evidence that most US clinical neurophysiologists send non-physician staff to monitor EEG during carotid endarterectomies. Similar results were found for somatosensory evoked potential spinal cord monitoring during scoliosis procedures. By describing current staffing practices, these data can promote a more informed debate on this controversial topic.
Changes in expression of epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors by gonadotropes parallel those of GnRH receptors. Gonadotropes increase their expression of EGF receptors (EGFR) during diestrus to reach a peak on the morning of proestrus. This is followed by a decline in expression to reach a nadir by estrus. We hypothesized that regulatory factors that stimulate changes in GnRH receptors might mediate the same changes in EGFR. To test this hypothesis, pituitary cells were collected from cycling rats and grown overnight in media with or without serum, 100 pM estradiol, or 60 ng/ml activin. On the next day, some of the cultures were further stimulated with 1 nM GnRH (4 h). The cells were then dual-labeled for EGFR and LHbeta or FSHbeta antigens and analyzed for their content of EGFR and gonadotropins. Neither activin nor estradiol increased percentages of cells with gonadotropin antigens and EGFR. Estradiol decreased percentages of cells with EGFR and LH in proestrous rats and those with EGFR and FSH in diestrous rats. The estradiol-mediated decline in EGFR expression during proestrus is similar to that seen when GnRH receptors are studied. Serum containing media alone increased percentages of LH and FSH cells with EGFR in populations from estrous or metestrous rats. Therefore, further experiments were conducted to learn if serum factors or EGF might be a regulator. Removal of serum from the growth media did not prevent the increase in percentages of LH cells with EGFR over the 18-h growth period. However, removal of serum did prevent the increased percentages of FSH cells with EGFR. Similarly, adding 1:100 anti-EGF to the serum containing media did not affect expression of EGFR by LH cells. However, it did cause a 27% decrease in percentages of FSH cells with EGFR. Finally, when 10 ng/ml EGF was added to metestrous populations in serum-free media there was a 1.4-1.5-fold increase in percentages of LH or FSH cells with EGFR. Collectively, these studies show that EGF receptors are not stimulated in gonadotropes by the same hormones that up-regulate GnRH receptors. Furthermore, EGF itself may be among the factors that up regulate EGFR in gonadotropes. EGF receptors may be down-regulated by estradiol during proestrus, but the effect is limited to LH cells. Finally, EGF's differential effects on LH and FSH cells suggests that it may selectively act on monohormonal gonadotropes. EGF receptors may be a marker for a unique subset of developing gonadotropes.
Bioactive peptides are usually synthesized as inactive precursor proteins that yield bioactive products only after specific biosynthetic processing events. Large dense core vesicles (LDCV) are usually the site of storage of mature peptides. Atrial myocyte LDCV are rather unique in their storage of intact prohormone, proatrial natriuretic factor (pro-ANF), with no storage of cleaved products. To investigate whether the lack of intracellular cleavage of pro-ANF is due to the absence of prohormone convertases (PCs) from the atrial granules or to other factors, we expressed PC1 in atrial myocyte cultures using a recombinant adenovirus vector. Pro-PC1 protein was processed to mature PC1 and to the COOH-terminally shortened neuroendocrine-specific form of PC1 and rapidly secreted. Integral membrane forms of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) were processed by PC1, and two primary products were secreted: a monofunctional monooxygenase and a larger bifunctional form. The cleaved PAM products were stored in LDCV, as secretion of PAM-derived products was stimulatable. In addition, pro-ANF was processed to ANF within PC1-expressing cells. In primary atrial myocytes, virally encoded PC1 is active on three substrates; lack of cleavage of pro-ANF and PAM in atrial myocytes is not due to a fundamental inability of atrial LDCV to support endoproteolytic processing.
Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) from the tibial nerve, heart rate (HR), respiration and blood pressure (BP) changes were recorded in 7 healthy young adults to investigate the role of antigravity muscle activity on the reflex sympathetic vasomotor and circulatory responses during orthostatic stress. The conventional passive graded head-up tilt (HUT) with a foot-board and the graded head-up suspension (HUS) with a body harness that provide orthostasis without weight bearing by the legs were applied for 3 consecutive, sequential 5-min periods at the levels of 20, 40 and 60 degrees. The resting values and responses to the lower level (20 degrees) of orthostasis by both techniques were similar. However, the changes in MSNA and HR during the HUS at higher levels (40 and 60 degrees) were smaller with a slight increase in mean BP at 60 degrees than the HUT at the same levels and duration (p&lt;0.05). Antigravity muscle activity during the HUT generates tension in the muscles and may activate muscle mechanoreceptors. Therefore, the reflex sympathetic vasomotor activity and circulatory responses to the HUT in humans are probably due to the additive effects of both the baroreflexes and muscle mechanoreflexes.
The aim of this study was to clarify how muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in humans, which plays an important role in blood pressure control against gravity, is altered under microgravity conditions. Subjects were seated in a jet aircraft with their legs extended. MSNA was recorded microneurographically from the tibial nerve of the sitting subjects with simultaneous monitoring of electrocardiogram, blood pressure, respiration, and intrathoracic blood volume during parabolic flights. In the Air Force training area, the aircraft made parabolas up to 10 times. At the entry to microgravity, intrathoracic blood volume increased, systemic blood pressure was elevated, and MSNA was suppressed. However, this MSNA suppression lasted only 10-15 sec, and then followed by an enhancement to the end of the parabolas. We conclude that MSNA is suppressed at the onset of microgravity during parabolic flight in response to loading of the cardiopulmonary volume receptor due to a cephalad body fluid shift. However, this MSNA suppression is transient during such dynamic gravitational changes as those induced by parabolic flight, probably modulated by arterial baroreceptors.
In this study we examined the effects of 3 days of dry immersion on heart rate variability (HRV) and blood pressure variability (BPV) in response to head-up tilting in 4 healthy young subjects aged 21 to 36 years. Resting value of the high-frequency (HF) power of BPV and HRV decreased, while the low-frequency (LF)/HF ratio of HRV and blood pressure increased after the dry immersion. The HF power of HRV decreased, while the LF/HF ratio of HRV and heart rate increased during head-up tilting before and after dry immersion. All powers of BPV and BP were unchanged during head-up tilting. The values of the decrease in the HF power of HRV and the increase in the LF/HF ratio during head-up tilting after dry immersion were larger than those before. These results suggest that 3 days of dry immersion altered the autonomic balance toward the sympathetic dominant at rest, and that cardiac function may play a crucial role in BP maintenance during head-up tilting compared with vasoconstrictor function.
An Antarctic winter-over has been regarded as one of the analogue situations in long-term space flight, especially from the aspect of prolonged isolation and a confined environment. Thus, Antarctic winter-overs at research stations offer us a unique opportunity to observe the dynamics of group and individual behavior. This research examines group structure and its development during long-term isolation and confinement in an Antarctic research station using direct, quantitative observations.
We investigated the gene expression responses using in situ hybridization with radiolabelled riboprobes for the m1 and m3 subtypes of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in the rat hippocampus following a brief (5-min) kainic acid-induced behavioral seizure. The kainic acid was intraperitoneally administered, and the ensuing generalized convulsive seizure terminated with diazepam. Our results demonstrate that the expression of the m1 subtype was significantly reduced in the CA1, CA3 and the dentate granule cells by 3 h after the administration of kainic acid while no significant change was observed in any hippocampal subfield for the m3 subtype. By 6 h post challenge, the m1 subtype was still decreased in all hippocampal subfields examined, while the m3 subtype remained unchanged from vehicle injected control. At 24 h post challenge, both the m1 and m3 subtypes were significantly reduced in the CA1 and CA3 subfields; the expression of the m1 subtype in the dentate granule cells, however, had recovered to levels indistinguishable from vehicle-injected control. These results demonstrate that epileptiform activity induced by kainic acid administration promotes alterations in the expression levels for both the m1 and m3 muscarinic receptor genes, and suggest that the activity of this neuromodulatory system in the hippocampus may be altered through activity-dependent mechanisms at early times following seizures.
In a previous study we have demonstrated that endogenous neurotrophin 3 (NT3) is required for the survival of most sympathetic neurones in postnatal rats. However, the mechanisms underlying the action of NT3 on sympathetic neurones is not known. Neither is it understood whether NT3 is retrogradely transported from peripheral tissues or acts locally in an autocrine fashion. In the present study, NT3-mRNA was quantified in sympathetic effector tissues and NT3 protein was localized in intact and lesioned sympathetic nerves in rats. NT3-mRNA is expressed and developmentally regulated in many effector tissues including mesenteric arteries, salivary gland, heart and kidney but hardly detectable in the superior cervical ganglia of adult animals. The majority of sympathetic neurones express immunoreactivity for TrkA and TrkC in both neonatal and adult rats. Sympathetic somata are normally immunoreactive for NT3, but the immunoreactivity is abolished by systemic administration of NT3 antibodies or axotomy of postganglionic neurones, suggesting an accumulation of NT3 from extraneuronal sources. Furthermore, the detection of NT3-immunoreactivity in the internal carotid nerve as early as 3 h following a compression and only on the distal side indicates endogenous NT3 is retrogradely transported by sympathetic neurones. These studies provide evidence indicating that NT3, like nerve growth factor, is an effector tissue-derived neurotrophic factor for sympathetic neurones both during development and in the adult animal. Thus, we have provided a clear example that one type of neurone derives, through a retrograde transport mechanism, two neurotrophic factors simultaneously from its peripheral effector tissues.
The ability of Schwann cells to induce the regeneration of severed olivocerebellar and Purkinje cell axons across an injury up to their deafferented targets was tested by transplanting freshly dissociated cells from newborn rat sciatic nerves into surgically lesioned adult cerebella. The grafted glial cells consistently filled the lesion gap and migrated into the host parenchyma. Transected olivocerebellar axons vigorously regenerated into the graft, where their growth pattern and direction followed the arrangement of Schwann cell bundles. Although some of these axons terminated within the transplant, many of them rejoined the cerebellar parenchyma beyond the lesion. Here, their fate depended on the territory encountered. No growth occurred in the white matter. Numerous fibres penetrated into the granular layer and formed terminal branches that remained confined within this layer. A few of them, however, regenerated up to the molecular layer and formed climbing fibres on Purkinje cell dendrites. By contrast, the growth of transected Purkinje cell axons into the grafts was very poor. These results underscore the different intrinsic responsiveness of Purkinje cell and olivocerebellar axons to the growth-promoting action of Schwann cells, and show that the development and outcome of the regenerative phenomena is strongly conditioned by the spatial organization and specific features of the environmental cues encountered by the outgrowing axons along the course they follow. However, Schwann cells effectively bridge the lesion gap, induce the regeneration of olivocerebellar axons, and direct their growth up to the deafferented host cortex, where some of them succeed in reinnervating their natural targets.
Pronase E ('pronase') is one of the proteolytic enzymes that are used in preparative procedures such as cell isolation and to soften the sheath of invertebrate ganglia. Although several effects of proteolytic enzymes on the physiology of non-neuronal tissues have been described, the effects of these enzymes on central neurons have received little attention. We examined the effects of bath-applied pronase on neurons in the Lymnaea central nervous system and in vitro. Pronase caused action potential broadening in neurons that exhibit a shoulder on the repolarization phase of their action potentials. This effect of pronase was accompanied by, although unrelated to, a depolarization and decrease in action potential interval. Some, but not all, effects of pronase in the central nervous system were reversible. For example, the decreases in membrane potential and action potential interval were both reversed after approximately 1 h of washing with saline. However, the effect of pronase on the action potential duration was not reversed after a period of 90 min. The modulation of action potential width prompted us to examine Ca2+ currents. Exposure to pronase resulted in an increase in both peak and late high voltage-activated Ca2+ currents in isolated neurons. Pronase neither changed the inactivation rate nor caused a shift in the current-voltage relationship of the current. The changes in action potential duration could be prevented by application of 0.1 mM Cd2+, indicating that the action potential broadening caused by pronase depends on Ca2+ influx. This is the first systematic study of the acute and direct actions of pronase on Ca2+ currents and cell properties both in the CNS and in vitro.
Nucleus accumbens dopamine is often hypothesized as the critical factor for modulating cocaine self-administration. In the current study we examined the extent to which dopamine in the amygdala could contribute to cocaine intake behaviour and modify nucleus accumbens dopamine levels. Rats were trained to self-administer intravenous cocaine (1.5 mg/kg/injection) under a fixed-ratio reinforcement schedule in daily 3 h operant training sessions. In the first in vivo microdialysis experiment, extracellular dopamine levels were found to be increased 200% of baseline in the amygdala and by 400% in the nucleus accumbens. Although cocaine induced similar profiles of dopamine overflow in the two mesolimbic areas, in the nucleus accumbens the latency of the dopaminergic response was shorter (three- to four-fold) during both initiation and termination of the cocaine self-administration session than in the amygdala. Despite achieving a stable self-regulated pattern of cocaine intake and high dopamine concentrations in the nucleus accumbens, a unilateral injection of the D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.5 or 1.5 microg) into the amygdala was still able to increase the rate of cocaine intake. This behavioural effect was accompanied by a dose-dependent increase in nucleus accumbens dopamine levels; at the highest SCH 23390 concentration cocaine intake was increased by 400% and dopamine levels were potentiated by an additional 400%. In vivo autoradiography using [3H]SCH 23390 showed that D1 receptor sites contributing to the behavioural and subsequent neurochemical effects were predominantly localized to the amygdala and not the nucleus accumbens. Altogether these results point to a significant contribution of in vivo amygdala D1 dopamine transmission to cocaine self-administration behaviour.
Chemical synapses convey impulses at high frequency by exocytosis of synaptic vesicles. To avoid failure of synaptic transmission, rapid replenishment of synaptic vesicles must occur. Recent molecular perturbation studies have confirmed that the recycling of synaptic vesicles involves clathrin-mediated endocytosis. The rate of exocytosis would thus be limited by the capacity of the synaptic clathrin machinery unless vesicles could be drawn from existing pools. The mobilization of vesicles from the pool clustered at the release sites appears to provide a mechanism by which the rate of exocytosis can intermittently exceed the rate of recycling. Perturbation of synapsins causes disruption of vesicle clusters and impairment of synaptic transmission at high but not at low frequencies. Both clathrin-mediated recycling and mobilization of vesicles from the reserve pool are thus important in the replenishment of synaptic vesicles. The efficacy of each mechanism appears to differ between synapses which operate with different patterns of activity.
The morphological changes occurring in the visual corticocollicular projection following removal of the contralateral retina (within the first 48 h of postnatal life) were studied using New Zealand rabbits. At 45-50 days after lesion, the corticocollicular terminal field was examined by anterograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, which was applied iontophoretically in the central region of the contralateral striate cortex. In contrast to normal intact rabbits of the same age, the corticocollicular terminal field was markedly enlarged in experimental animals. In the centre of the field we found abundant oblique fibres which sent out branches. These collateral fibres coursed over long distances, parallel to the pial surface, in the stratum zonale and in the upper part of the stratum griseum superficiale. The presence of these fibres, together with an increased density of synaptic boutons at more superficial levels of the sprouted terminal field, suggest that corticocollicular fibres tended to occupy territories left vacant when retinocollicular axons degenerated after enucleation. The high density and extensive distribution of these corticocollicular fibres may be due to the continued growth of the fibres, which occupy an extensive territory during the early postnatal stages and which, under normal circumstances are retracted during the process of postnatal maturation. Despite the expansion of the field occupied by corticocollicular synapses, its centre coincided topographically with the field centres in normal animals, indicating the existence of intrinsic positional cues that persisted after enucleation and determined the arrangement of visual cortical afferents. This model, which involves substantial changes in terminal field organization, should prove useful in elucidating the cellular and molecular processes underlying regeneration and plasticity in the visual system.
The organization of climbing fibre input to the cerebellar anterior lobe of the ferret was investigated in barbiturate-anaesthetized animals. Climbing fibre field potentials evoked on electrical stimulation of forelimb and hindlimb nerves were recorded at the cerebellar surface. Based on characteristic latencies of climbing fibre responses and their relative localization along the longitudinal axis of the folia, nine sagittally oriented zones could be distinguished and were tentatively named, from medial to lateral, A, X, B, C1, Cx, C2, C3, D1 and D2. Within the C1, C2 and C3 zones, climbing fibre input from the ipsilateral forelimb was found caudally and from the hindlimb rostrally, while the corresponding topographical representation in the B and D2 zones was medial to lateral. The X, Cx and D1 zones did not receive input from the hindlimb, while input from the forelimb to the A zone was weak. Overall, the sagittal zonal organization of climbing fibre input appears to conform with the compartmentalization of the ferret cerebellum based on the myeloarchitecture of corticonuclear fibres, although the X and Cx zones have not been previously identified. In terms of both general electrophysiological characteristics of input to different zones and intrazonal topographical representation, the organization of climbing fibre input to the ferret cerebellum seems to strongly resemble that in the cat. The findings thus provide evidence of cross-species generality of cerebellar sagittal organization.
An increasing number of persons say that they get cutaneous problems as well as symptoms from certain internal organs, such as the central nervous system (CNS) and the heart, when being close to electric equipment. A major group of these patients are the users of video display terminals (VDTs), who claim to have subjective and objective skin- and mucosa-related symptoms, such as pain, itch, heat sensation, erythema, papules, and pustules. The CNS symptoms are, e.g. dizziness, tiredness, and headache. Erythema, itch, heat sensation, edema and pain are also common symptoms of sunburn (UV dermatitis). Alterations have been observed in cell populations of the skin of patients suffering from so-called &quot;screen dermatitis&quot; similar to those observed in the skin damaged due to ultraviolet (UV) light or ionizing radiation. In &quot;screen dermatitis&quot; patients a much higher number of mast cells have been observed. It is known that UVB irradiation induces mast cell degranulation and release of TNF-alpha. The high number of mast cells present in the &quot;screen dermatitis&quot; patients and the possible release of specific substances, such as histamine, may explain their clinical symptoms of itch, pain, edema and erythema. The most remarkable change among cutaneous cells, after exposure with the above-mentioned irradiation sources, is the disappearance of the Langerhans' cells. This change has also been observed in &quot;screen dermatitis&quot; patients, again pointing to a common cellular and molecular basis. The results of this literature study demonstrate that highly similar changes exist in the skin of &quot;screen dermatitis&quot; patients, as regards the clinical manifestations as well as alterations in the cell populations, and in skin damaged by UV light or ionizing radiation.
The cellular responses to spinal cord or brain injury include the production of molecules that modulate wound healing. This study examined the upregulation of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, a family of molecules present in the wound healing matrix that may inhibit axon regeneration in the central nervous system (CNS) after trauma. We have demonstrated increases in these putative inhibitory molecules in brain and spinal cord injury models, and we observed a close correlation between the tissue distribution of their upregulation and the presence of inflammation and a compromised blood-brain barrier. We determined that the presence of degenerating and dying axons injured by direct trauma does not provide a sufficient signal to induce the increases in proteoglycans observed after injury. Activated macrophages, their products, or other serum components that cross a compromised blood-brain barrier may provide a stimulus for changes in extracellular matrix molecules after CNS injury. While gliosis is associated with increased levels of proteoglycans, not all reactive astrocytes are associated with augmented amounts of these extracellular matrix molecules, which suggests a heterogeneity among glial cells that exhibit a reactive phenotype. Chondroitin sulfate also demarcates developing cavities of secondary necrosis, implicating these types of boundary molecules in the protective response of the CNS to trauma.
We have examined the regeneration of corticospinal tract fibers and expression of various extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules and intermediate filaments [vimentin and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)] after dorsal hemisection of the spinal cord of adult GFAP-null and wild-type littermate control mice. The expression of these molecules was also examined in the uninjured spinal cord. There was no increase in axon sprouting or long distance regeneration in GFAP-/- mice compared to the wild type. In the uninjured spinal cord (i) GFAP was expressed in the wild type but not the mutant mice, while vimentin was expressed in astrocytes in the white matter of both types of mice; (ii) laminin and fibronectin immunoreactivity was localized to blood vessels and meninges; (iii) tenascin and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG) labeling was detected in astrocytes and the nodes of Ranvier in the white matter; and (iv) in addition, CSPG labeling which was generally less intense in the gray matter of mutant mice. Ten days after hemisection there was a large increase in vimentin+ cells at the lesion site in both groups of mice. These include astrocytes as well as meningeal cells that migrate into the wound. The center of these lesions was filled by laminin+/fibronectin+ cells. Discrete strands of tenascin-like immunoreactivity were seen in the core of the lesion and lining its walls. Marked increases in CSPG labeling was observed in the CNS parenchyma on either side of the lesion. These results indicate that the absence of GFAP in reactive astrocytes does not alter axonal sprouting or regeneration. In addition, except for CSPG, the expression of various ECM molecules appears unaltered in GFAP-/- mice.
This study presents a novel detailed method of analysis of rat gait and uses this method to demonstrate recovery of forward locomotion patterns in adult rats made paraplegic by surgical spinal cord transection and subjected to a novel strategy for spinal cord repair. Six normal rats were compared to five animals in which the cord was transected at T8-T9, and a 5-mm segment of the spinal cord removed, and to seven animals in which, following spinal cord transection and removal of a spinal cord segment, multiple intercostal peripheral nerve bridges were implanted, rerouting pathways from white to gray matter in both directions. The implanted area was filled with fibrin glue containing acidic fibroblast growth factor. Details of the repair strategy have been published (H. Cheng, Y. Cao, and L. Olson, 1996, Science 273: 510-513). Gait analysis was carried out 3 and 4 months after surgery and once in the normal animals. Animals were allowed to walk across a runway with a transparent floor. Each test consisted of five trials, and each trial was videorecorded from underneath. Using frame-by-frame playback, individual footprints were then recorded regarding location and order of limb use, as well as step quality (degree of weight bearing, etc.). These data allowed measuring runway transit time, five different measures of step numbers, all possible temporal patterns of limb use, stride length, and base of support. Transected controls remained paralyzed in the hindlimbs with only occasional reflex hindlimb movements without weight bearing. Animals subjected to the full repair procedure were significantly faster than the controls, used their hindlimbs for 25-30% of the movements, and regained several of the specific limb recruitment patterns used by normal rats. Taken together, the gait analysis data demonstrate remarkable recovery of coordinated gait in the repaired animals, which was significantly better than controls for all relevant parameters, while at the same time clearly inferior to normal rats for most of the examined parameters. We conclude that normal rats use a multitude of interchangeable step sequence patterns, and that our spinal cord repair strategy leads to recovery of some of these patterns following complete spinal cord transection. These data suggest functionally relevant neuronal communication across the lesion.
Little spontaneous regeneration of axons occurs after acute and chronic injury to the CNS. Previously we have shown that the continuous local delivery of neurotrophic factors to the acutely injured spinal cord induces robust growth of spinal and supraspinal axons. In the present study we examined whether chronically injured axons also demonstrate significant neurotrophin responsiveness. Adult rats underwent bilateral dorsal hemisection lesions that axotomize descending supraspinal pathways, including the corticospinal, rubrospinal, and cerulospinal tracts, and ascending dorsal spinal sensory projections. One to three months later, injured rats received grafts of syngenic fibroblasts genetically modified to produce nerve growth factor (NGF). Control subjects received unmodified cell grafts or cells transduced to express the reporter gene beta-galactosidase. Three to five months after grafting, animals that received NGF-secreting grafts showed dense growth of putative cerulospinal axons and primary sensory axons of the dorsolateral fasciculus into the grafted lesion site. Growth from corticospinal, raphaespinal, and local motor axons was not detected. Thus, robust growth of defined populations of supraspinal and spinal axons can be elicited in chronic stages after spinal cord injury by localized, continuous transgenic delivery of neurotrophic factors.
NMDA receptors in postmortem human spinal cord were analyzed using [3H]MK-801 ligand binding and immunoblotting with NMDA receptor subunit-specific antibodies. The average KD for [3H]MK-801 binding was 1.77 nM with a Bmax of 0.103 pmol/mg. The EC50 for stimulation of -3H-MK-801 binding with L-glutamate was 0.34 microM. None of these parameters were affected by postmortem intervals up to 72 h. Immunoblotting of native NMDA receptors showed that NR1, NR2A, NR2C, and NR2D subunits could all be found in the human spinal cord of which NR1 was preferentially located to the dorsal half. Immunoprecipitation of solubilized receptors revealed that NR1, NR2C, and NR2D subunits coprecipitated with the NR2A subunit, indicating that native human spinal cord NMDA receptors are heteroligimeric receptors assembled by at least three different receptor subunits. These results provide a basis for the development of drugs selectively aimed at spinal cord NMDA receptors for the future treatment of spinal cord disorders.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a 36 amino acid amidated peptide with high sequence homology to the endocrine peptides, peptide YY (PYY) and pancreatic polypeptide (PP). They appear to interact with a family of receptors that possess high affinity for one or more of these peptides. Five members of the receptor family have been cloned, with several additional members postulated through pharmacological evidence. All are members of the seven transmembrane domain-G-protein coupled receptor family. The Y1 receptor is the best characterised, with several nonpeptide antagonists available. This receptor appears to mediate a constriction of the peripheral vasculature and the 'anxiolytic' effects of centrally administered NPY. Less is known about the other receptors in the family. The Y2 receptor is believed to be presynaptic and mediates a reduction in neurotransmitter release. The Y4 receptor appears to be the receptor for pancreatic polypeptide, with high amounts of mRNA for this receptor found in the periphery, but lower levels in the brain. The Y5 receptor is expressed in the hypothalamus and has been postulated to be the receptor which mediates the increased food consumption seen following centrally administered NPY. Finally, the Y6 receptor has been cloned in the mouse and other species, but does not appear to encode a functional gene product in humans. Several types of nonpeptide Y1 and a series of Y5 antagonists have been described in the patent literature, though these compounds have limitations that will confine their use to preclinical studies. Nevertheless, considerable progress has been made in understanding the role of NPY and its receptors in experimental obesity. The next step will be the discovery of potent and selective nonpeptide antagonists, to add further credence to the therapeutic potential.
GFAP(+) cells were acutely isolated from the hippocampi of 1-10 day old rats, and the intracellular calcium responses to L-glutamate, ATP, and 5-HT were studied in single cells. Eighty-two percent of such cells responded to glutamate, 20% of them responded to ATP, and none responded to 5-HT. The same cells that failed to respond to ATP and 5-HT often responded to glutamate. These proportions of cells responding to glutamate and ATP are very similar to those reported for GFAP(+) astrocytes in hippocampal slices (Porter and McCarthy, 1995a,b). After culturing for 1-2 days in serum-containing medium, 60% of such acutely isolated cells responded to either glutamate or ATP, and 5% to 5-HT. After 1 week in culture, the percentage of cells responding to glutamate remained essentially the same (62%) but the percentages of cells responding to ATP and 5-HT increased to 92% and 62%, respectively. These percentages were very close to the results obtained from primary hippocampal astrocyte cultures prepared from 1 day old rats and cultured for 1-2 weeks in vitro. Pharmacological characterization showed that the Ca2+ responses of acutely isolated hippocampal astrocytes from P1-10 rats was due to activation of a group I metabotropic glutamate receptor. The calcium responses to ATP and 5-HT in acutely isolated cells that were then cultured were mediated by P2y and 5-HT2A receptors, respectively. These data show that, like cortical astrocytes (Kimelberg et al., 1997), GFAP(+) astrocytes cultured from the hippocampi of young rats showed marked differences in receptor expression compared to their acutely isolated counterparts. Also, since the astrocytes acutely isolated from these 2 different brain regions showed qualitatively the same responses for the 3 receptors selected, it indicates a degree of homogeneity of receptor expression for astrocytes from these 2 brain regions.
Dp260 is a C-terminal isoform of dystrophin and is expressed specifically in the retina. Abnormal electroretinograms (ERG) in some Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) patients are likely linked to a disruption of Dp260. To clarify the importance of Dp260 in the retina, we examined dystrophin exon 52 knock-out mice, whose expression of Dp260 is impaired. We also confirmed the localization of Dp260 in the outer plexiform layer (OPL) of the retina. Disruption of Dp260 causes a change in the localization of beta-dystroglycan, which is normally found in the OPL of the retina. This suggests a requirement for Dp260 for normal formation of the dystrophin-dystroglycan complex in the retina. Dp71, also expressed in the retina, was, however, not detected in the OPL. The difference in localization of Dp260 and Dp71 implies that the two isoforms have different functions. The dystrophin exon 52 knock-out mice had a prolonged implicit time of the b-wave in ERG, although no significant change was observed in amplitude. These ERG findings differed from those of DMD and BMD patients, especially with regard to amplitude of the b-wave, but make it clear that Dp260 is required for normal electrophysiology.
A CMOS very large scale integration (VLSI) chip has been designed and built to implement a scheme developed for multiplexing/demultiplexing the signals required to operate an intracortical stimulating electrode array. Because the use of radio telemetry in a proposed system utilizing this chip may impose limits upon the rate of data transmission to the chip, the scheme described herein was used to reduce the amount of digital information which must be sent to control a large quantity (up to several hundred) of stimulating electrodes. By incorporating multiple current sources on chip, many channels may be stimulated simultaneously. By incorporating on-chip timers, control over pulse timing is assigned to the chip, reducing by up to fourfold the amount of control data which must be sent. By incorporating on-chip RAM, information associated with the desired stimulus amplitude and pulse timing can be stored on chip. In this manner, it is necessary to send control information to the chip only when the information changes, rather than at the stimulus repeat rate for each channel. This further reduces the data rate by a factor of five to ten times or more. The architecture described here, implemented as an eight-channel stimulator, is scalable to a 625-channel stimulator while keeping data transmission rates under 2 Mbps.
Amyloid plaques are the pathological hallmark of Alzheimer Disease (AD) brains, being found primarily in the hippocampus and neocortex, where AD pathology is most evident. Complement activation is associated with amyloid plaques which are made from fibrils of aggregated amyloid peptides, 39-42 amino acids long. In vitro studies show that aggregated amyloid peptides activate complement via the classical pathway, implying that amyloid plaques themselves cause complement activation in AD brains. In order to test this hypothesis, we sought to determine if a major peptide component of amyloid plaques, A beta 1-42, supports the formation of the classical pathway C3 convertase. Using normal human serum depleted of C3, we are able to detect C3 convertase activity on aggregated A beta 1-42 in vitro. The convertase activity is associated with the binding of C1q and activation of C4 on the aggregated peptide. Inhibitors of C1 esterase and the cation chelator EGTA both block the formation of the convertase activity. Congo red, a histochemical stain for amyloid deposits and an inhibitor of amyloid aggregation, reduces C3 convertase activity on aggregated A beta 1-42, indicated by decreased C3a production. Our results provide further evidence that aggregated A beta 1-42 alone is sufficient to serve as a nidus for complement activation, and thus may be involved directly in initiating the inflammation seen in AD brains.
Der f2, the group 2 allergen of Dermatophagoides farinae, is one of the major inhalation allergens in Japan. Using the mixture of a panel of overlapping synthetic peptides that spread over the entire Der f2 molecule, we found that polyclonal Der f2-specific short-term T cell lines prepared from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 5 individuals allergic to Der f who carry most of the common HLA haplotypes seen in the Japanese population can respond mainly to 7 different peptides. Distribution of the T cell epitopes on Der f2 was not identical with that on Der p2. Five of 7 peptides stimulated T cells of more than 2 donors, regardless of HLA types. Inhibition patterns by anti-HLA class II mAbs were heterogenous in proliferative responses of each cell line, three were mainly inhibited by anti-HLA-DR mAb, and the others were inhibited by anti-HLA-DQ mAb. One of these T cell lines, SM, of which the proliferative response was partially inhibited by anti-HLA-DQ mAb, was cloned. Indeed, the T cell clone SM4.6 was restricted by DQ6 molecules encoded for by an HLA-DRB1*1502-DRB5*0102-DQA1*0103-DQB1*0601 haplotype. These results indicate that patients' T cells recognize Der f2 in association with a variety of HLA-DR or HLA-DQ as antigen-presenting molecules. Thus, although some peptides do have a more potent T cell stimulatory activity than others, the TCR ligands formed with the Der f2 molecule are highly heterogeneous, a factor also noted in Der f1-specific T cell lines in our previous study.
It has been suggested that elderly people are predisposed to depression by age-related structural and biochemical changes that may increase their vulnerability to depression and by the fact that risk factors such as bereavement and other psychological losses, somatic diseases and institutionalization become more common with increasing age. The elderly also have a disproportionately high rate of suicide. Whether the prevalence of depression increases or decreases with age is, however, debatable. There may be a peak in the prevalence during the years before retirement, a low prevalence during the first 10-15 years thereafter, and an increase after the age of 75 years. Among the consequences of depression are social deprivation, loneliness, poor quality of life, increased use of health and home-care services, cognitive decline, impairments in activities of daily living, chronicity, suicide and increased non-suicide mortality. However, most studies report that few depressives in the community are treated with antidepressants. During recent years new antidepressants have been introduced, which are better tolerated by the elderly. At the same time, the prescription of anti-depressants has increased in the community. It remains to be seen whether these changes have led to a higher rate of treatment of depression in the elderly.
Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization the distribution of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) was investigated in the rat brain during pre- and postnatal development. At E15 weak NOS-like immunoreactivity (NOS-LI) could be seen in the differentiation field of the anterior hypothalamus. At E17 strong NOS-LI was observed in the developing neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, supraoptic nucleus, anterodorsal nucleus and lateral hypothalamic areas. In the thalamic paratenial nucleus a strong NOS-LI was observed in these neurons at E17, E18 and P1 with a weaker intensity at P3, P7, P9 and P15, whereas at P30 and in adult rats no NOS-positive neurons could be detected. NOS expression at E17 and P3 was verified by in situ hybridization. These results suggest that NO may have a developmental role at least in one of the regions studied, the thalamic paratenial nucleus.


Central Motor Conduction Time (CMCT) was investigated in 18 patients (5 m, 13 f; age range: 11-69 yrs) with clinical and electrophysiological features of HMSN type I, using Magnetic Coil (MC) stimulation. No one exhibited clinically pyramidal signs. Brain stimulation Motor Evoked Potentials (MEPs), recorded monolaterally from the left abductor digiti minimi (ADM) and tibialis anterior (TA) muscles, were evoked in all patients from upper extremities and absent in 11.1% from lower limbs. Total Motor Conduction Time (TMCT), as well as Peripheral Motor Conduction Time estimated by either magnetic nerve root stimulation (mag-PMCT) or F-wave latency values (F-PMCT), were markedly delayed in all patients. Central Motor Conduction Time was calculated by subtracting both the latency of mag-PMCT (mag-CMCT) and F-PMCT (F-CMCT) from that one obtained by cortical stimulation. F-CMCT was abnormal in 22.2% in upper extremities and in 27.8% patients from lower extremities, whereas mag-CMCT in 22.2% from ADM muscles and in 33.3% from TA muscles. Furthermore, CMCT to both methods was not possible to evaluate in 5.6% from upper and lower extremities and following magnetic root stimulation in 11.1% from lower limbs. These findings prove lower motor neuron involvement, in agreement with electroneurographic data, and suggest a possible central motor pathways impairment, even in patients without any clinical evidence, but they cannot explain which is the underlying pathophysiological mechanism, a true upper motor neuron involvement or an abnormal spinal motor neuron excitability.
A model of frontal inhibition in hypnosis was elucidated by examining with cortical evoked potentials error negativity and positivity in 23 low versus medium/high hypnotisables during a perceptual task which included trials with conflicting stimulus information. In susceptible subjects the number of correct responses was found to be smaller for trials with incongruent stimulus information with hypnosis when compared with baseline. While the early negative wave to incorrect responses tended to be higher in susceptible subjects, this wave was no longer followed by a late positivity, posited to reflect a failure to process further the error-related information. The results with hypnosis are interpreted as a failure of context updating without a global deficit in supervisory attention.
We examined event-related potentials in patients with senile depression and silent cerebral infarction (SCI) to clarify the features of the P300 component. P300 event-related potentials were recorded in drug-free depressed patients (N = 16) and normal controls (N = 17). All patients underwent magnetic resonance imaging and were classified as SCI-positive (N = 7) or SCI-negative (N = 9). In depressed patients, the P300 was reexamined after antidepressant treatment. Prior to treatment, P300 amplitudes in depressed patients were significantly smaller than those in normal controls (P &lt; 0.01). P300 amplitudes increased significantly in SCI-negative patients following recovery (P &lt; 0.05), but did not change in SCI-positive patients. SCI may interrupt the treatment-related P300 amplitude increase in depressed patients.

Preischemic hyperglycemia or superimposed hypercapnia exaggerates brain damage caused by transient forebrain ischemia. Because high regional levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein correlate with resistance to ischemic damage, we studied the expression of BDNF mRNA using in situ hybridization in rats subjected to 10 minutes of forebrain ischemia under normoglycemic, hyperglycemic, or hypercapnic conditions. Compared with normoglycemic animals, the increase of BDNF mRNA using in situ hybridization in rats subjected to 10 minutes of forebrain ischemia under normoglycemic, or hypercapnic conditions. Compared with normoglycemic animals, the increase of BDNF mRNA in dentate granule cells was attenuated and that in CA3 pyramidal neurons completely prevented in hyperglycemic rats. No ischemia-induced increases of BDNF mRNA levels in the hippocampal formation were detected in hypercapnic animals. Hyperglycemic and hypercapnic rats showed transiently decreased expression of BDNF mRNA levels in the cingulate cortex, which was not observed in normoglycemic animals. The results suggest that suppression of the BDNF gene might contribute to the increased vulnerability of the CA3 region and cingulate cortex in hyperglycemic and hypercapnic animals.
By the indirect immunofluorescence method, the distribution of nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-like immunoreactivity (LI) and its possible colocalization with neuropeptide immunoreactivities, with two enzymes for the catecholamine synthesis pathway, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH), as well as the enzyme for the acetylcholine synthesis pathway, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) were studied in the anterior pelvic ganglion (APG), the inferior mesenteric ganglion (IMG) and the hypogastric nerve in the male guinea pig. The analyses were performed on tissues from intact animals, as well as after compression/ligation or cut of the hypogastric nerve. In some cases the colonic nerves were also cut. Analysis of the APG showed two main neuronal cell populations, one group containing NOS localized in the caudal part of the APG and one TH-positive group lacking NOS in its cranial part. The majority of the NOS-positive neurons contained ChAT-LI. Some NOS-positive cells did not contain detectable ChAT, but all ChAT-positive cells contained NOS. NOS neurons often contained peptides, including vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY), somatostatin (SOM) and/or calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Some NOS cells expressed DBH, but never TH. The second cell group, characterized by absence of NOS, contained TH, mostly DBH and NPY and occasionally SOM and CGRP. Some TH-positive neurons lacked DBH. In the IMG, the NOS-LI was principally in nerve fibers, which were of two types, one consisting of strongly immunoreactive, coarse, varicose fibers with a patchy distribution, the other one forming fine, varicose, weakly immunoreactive fibers with a more general distribution. In the coarse networks, NOS-LI coexisted with VIP- and DYN-LI and the fibers surrounded mainly the SOM-containing noradrenergic principal ganglion cells. A network of ChAT-positive, often NOS-containing nerve fibers, surrounded the principal neurons. Occasional neuronal cell bodies in the IMG contained both NOS- and ChAT-LI. Accumulation of NOS was observed, both caudal and cranial, to a crush of the hypogastric nerve. VIP accumulated mainly on the caudal side and often coexisted with NOS. NPY accumulated on both sides of the crush, but mainly on the cranial side, and ENK was exclusively on the cranial side. Neither peptide coexisted with NOS. Both substance P (SP) and CGRP showed the strongest accumulation on the cranial side, possibly partly colocalized with NOS. It is concluded that the APG in the male guinea-pig consists of two major complementary neuron populations, the cholinergic neurons always containing NOS and the noradrenergic neurons containing TH and DBH. Some NOS neurons lacked ChAT and could represent truly non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic neurons. In addition, there may be a small dopaminergic neuron population, that is containing TH but lacking DBH. The cholinergic NOS neurons contain varying combinations of peptides. The noradrenergic population often contained NPY and occasionally SOM and CGRP. It is suggested that NO may interact with a number of other messenger molecules to play a role both within the APG and IMG and also in the projection areas of the APG.
Adaptation of the skin colour to the background light condition in the amphibian Xenopus laevis is achieved by migration of pigment granules in the skin melanophores, a process regulated by alpha-MSH secretion from melanotrope cells in the pituitary pars intermedia (PI). alpha-MSH secretion in turn, is regulated by various stimulatory and inhibitory messengers synthesized in brain nuclei, especially the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic and magnocellular nuclei and the locus coeruleus in the hindbrain. In the present study, the roles in background adaptation of nitric oxide (NO) and NO synthase (NOS) enzyme activity were evaluated. In situ, using both immunohistochemistry with anti-human brain NOS (bNOS) serum in paraffin-embedded material and using nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemistry in cryo-sections, we showed NOS in neurons in the optic tectum and in the locus coeruleus. NADPH-d reactivity was also found in neurons in the lateral amygdala, the ventral hypothalamic nucleus and in fibers in the median eminence. Using a Western blot stained with an anti-human bNOS serum, we demonstrated a 150 kDa band in Xenopus hindbrain lysates, which is similar to the NOS protein present in the rat anterior pituitary, but which was not detectable in the lysates from both the neurointermediate and distal lobes in Xenopus. No differences in histochemical staining pattern or on Western blotting were observed between animals adapted to a black or a white background. Paraffin sections of the endocrine PI and pars distalis did not reveal bNOS-like immunoreactivity. NADPH-d reactivity was observed in the endothelia of this gland. However, using a new procedure of thin cryo-sections of pituitary neurointermediate lobes, we observed bNOS-immunoreactive fibers as well as cyclic 3',5' guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-accumulating fibers in the PI. The PI may be regulated by NOergic neurons from higher brain centers. The possibility that NOergic neurons in the locus coeruleus are involved in the innervation of the PI needs further investigation. The latter neurons are probably not noradrenergic because double labeling studies show no co-localization of NADPH-d reactivity and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in locus coeruleus neurons.
Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes are uncommon, however, their diagnosis is of major practical importance. The identification of antibodies in the serum or cerebrospinal fluid in central nervous system paraneoplastic syndromes confirms the clinical diagnosis of a paraneoplastic syndrome and allows early identification of an underlying tumour at a stage when it is localised and more amenable to treatment. The failure to identify antibodies in patients with characteristic presentations of underlying neurological paraneoplastic syndromes does not exclude an underlying cancer. Necrotising myelopathy, dermatomyositis, and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy all occur more frequently than expected in patients with cancer but autoantibodies have not yet been identified. Although significant advances have been made in diagnosis, further research is needed in the detection of autoantibodies and the elucidation of their role in the aetiology of neurological disease.

Minimum onset latency (Lmin) of single- and multiple-unit responses were mapped in the primary auditory cortex (AI) of barbiturate-anesthetized cats. Contralateral Lmin for multiple units was non-homogeneously distributed along the dorso-ventral/isofrequency axis of the AI. Responses with shorter latencies were more often located in the central, more sharply tuned region while longer latencies were more frequently encountered in the dorsal and ventral portions of the AI. For single units, a large scatter of Lmin values was found throughout the extent of the AI including cortical depth. The relationship between Lmin and previously reported spectral, intensity and temporal parameters was analyzed and revealed statistically significant correlations between minimum onset latency and the following response properties in some but not all studied animals: sharpness of tuning of a frequency response area 10 dB above threshold, broadband transient response, strongest response level, monotonicity of rate/level functions, dynamic range, and preferred frequency modulation sweep direction. This analysis suggests that Lmin is determined by several independent factors and that the prediction of Lmin based on relationships with other spectral and temporal response properties is inherently weak. The spatial distribution and the functional relationship between these response parameters may provide an important aspect of the time-based cortical representation of specific features in the animal's natural environment.
This study seeks to comparatively examine how autonomy is evaluated by a sample of nursing staff in both Sweden and Florida, USA. In both cultures support for patient autonomy was generally greater from an individual point of view than from the anticipated institutional perspective. Comparisons between the cultures revealed that individual staff members in the Swedish nursing homes generally gave higher priority to patient preference than did their American counterparts. On the other hand, support for patient preference was generally greater in the American nursing homes in regard to institutionally anticipated decision. There were statistically significant mean value differences between Swedish nursing staff's personal opinion and anticipated institutional decisions in five of six case studies. Nursing staff's personal opinion showed a stronger support for patient's preferences. There was a statistically significant mean value difference between American nursing staffs' personal opinion and anticipated institutional decisions in only one of the six case studies. In spite of cultural differences the reported results to some degree reflect a common value-system regarding both the anticipated institutional perspective and nursing staffs' personal opinion.
The main motor disorder evoked by unilateral labyrinthectomy (UL) in the lamprey (Lampetra fluviatilis) is a complete loss of equilibrium and rolling (rotation about the longitudinal axis) during swimming. A previous study has shown that the recovery of equilibrium control in the lamprey takes, on average, 33 days. However, lampreys were able to maintain equilibrium if UL was combined with removal of the ipsilateral eye ('surgical compensation' of the vestibular deficit). It was suggested that tonic excitatory inflow, rather than specific information about the orientation of the animal in space delivered by the remaining eye, is important for the recovery of equilibrium control. In the present study, a number of experiments were designed to test this hypothesis. It was found that illumination of the eye contralateral to the UL or continuous electrical stimulation (10 Hz) of the corresponding optic nerve resulted in immediate restoration of equilibrium control. The same result was obtained when the vestibular nerve on the UL side was stimulated. Thus, the roll control system in the lamprey, driven by only one labyrinth, is able to maintain equilibrium provided that the lack of tonic inflow from the missing labyrinth is compensated for by tonic vestibular or visual input. The present study has also shown that the importance of visual input for maintaining equilibrium after UL decreases with time. In animals that achieved a high degree of compensation, removal of the eyes on day 23 after UL evoked decompensation, whereas removal on day 70 did not. A reduction of the significance of visual input was also observed in surgically compensated UL lampreys. In these animals, removal of the remaining eye on days 1-3 after the first surgery resulted in a complete loss of equilibrium, removal on day 7 resulted in a partial loss, whereas removal on days 48-55 did not affect the postural stability. Three lines of evidence suggest that asymmetrical visual input evokes plastic changes in the roll control system. (i) In one group of animals, initially one eye was removed, and then 50 days later the labyrinth ipsilateral to the missing eye and remaining eye were removed. These animals exhibited a mild impairment of equilibrium control, in contrast to the animals in which both surgeries were performed simultaneously. (ii) In another group of animals, initially one eye was removed, and then 50 days later the remaining eye and both labyrinths were removed. These animals exhibited rolling towards the eye that remained intact for longer. (iii) A short-term electrical stimulation (5-10 min daily for 3 days) of the optic nerve (contralateral to UL) in blinded animals considerably improved the equilibrium control compared with that of non-stimulated animals; the improvement was observed for 60 days after stimulation.
Neuronal mechanisms underlying stimulus-response (S-R) associations in S-R compatibility tasks were identified in 2 experiments with monkeys. Visual stimuli were presented on the left and right calling for left-right movements under congruent and incongruent S-R mapping instructions. High- and low-pitched tones calling for left-right movements were presented to the left and right ear, and the stimulus side was irrelevant. Single neurons sensitive to the S-R mapping rule were found in the primary motor cortex. The large overlap between the neuronal populations sensitive to the stimulus side, the S-R mapping rule, and the response side, respectively, is consistent with the idea that sensory-to-motor transformation is a continuous rather than a discrete process. Results partly support the hypothesis that the increase in reaction time with incongruent mapping is caused by the automatic activation of the congruent, but erroneous, response.
This paper examines the anatomy and physiology, together with the pathophysiology, of the ventricular system of the brain, as it was understood by arguably its greatest exponent in Western Antiquity, Galen. According to him, the purpose of the ventricles was to elaborate, store and distribute psychic pneuma, the motive force of Galenic neurology, throughout the nervous system. However, impressive as the delineation of the ventricular system is, the details of this distribution are not forthcoming from Galen. Finally, I discuss the ventricles as the site of intellect, a notion only tentatively advanced by Galen, but cast into dogma by his successors. For all the mistakes Galen made in anatomy and physiology, the study of the ventricular system reveals a mind not dissimilar to our own.
Paraffin embedding of tissue is generally perceived to dramatically reduce RNA detectability. As a consequence, in situ hybridization on paraffin-embedded tissue is largely confined to detection of high-copy RNA species (e.g., viral RNA) and/or to detection using typically more sensitive cDNA probes or riboprobes. In this study, several procedures for in situ hybridization on paraffin-embedded rat tissue using oligonucleotide probes complementary to cellular transcripts were developed and quantitatively compared. Certain pretreatments showed marked increases in sensitivity compared to untreated sections. Furthermore, through quantitative assessment using image analysis, sensitivity of optimal pretreatments was equal to that of routinely used fresh-frozen, postfixed tissue sections. The development of such techniques permitting in situ hybridization to be carried out on paraffin-embedded tissue allows a comparison of protein and mRNA distribution to be made in adjacent sections and provides the potential for double labeling by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry which may not be possible on post-fixed frozen sections.
In this immunocytochemical study, we used light and electron microscopic observations in combination with morphometry to analyze the processing of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) in melanotrope cells of the intermediate pituitary of Xenopus laevis adapted to either a white or a black background. An antiserum was raised against a synthetic peptide including the cleavage site between ACTH and beta-lipotropic hormone in Xenopus. Western blotting revealed that this antiserum recognizes only a 38-kD protein, the POMC prohormone, from extracts of Xenopus neurointermediate pituitary. Light immunocytochemistry showed differential immunostaining for anti-POMC compared to anti-alpha-MSH. Anti-POMC was predominantly found in the perinuclear region, whereas anti-alpha-MSH yielded staining throughout the cytoplasm. Immunogold double labeling revealed that electron-dense secretory granules (DGs) show high immunoreactivity for anti-POMC and low immunoreactivity for anti-alpha-MSH. Electron-lucent granules (LGs) are immunoreactive to anti-alpha-MSH only. Moderately electron-dense granules (MGs) revealed intermediate reactivity compared to DGs and LGs. Background light intensity has significant effects on the morphology and the immunoreactivity of the secretory granules. Black-adapted animals have 4.5 times as many DGs and MGs as white-adapted animals. In addition, the MGs in black animals show 42% more anti-alpha-MSH immunogold than the MGs in white animals. Together, these findings indicate that the three granule types represent subsequent stages in granule maturation. Adaptation to a black background stimulates the formation of young immature granules, while at the same time the processing rate during granule maturation increases.
Activin stimulates the synthesis and secretion of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). It inhibits the synthesis and release of growth hormone (GH). It acts on gonadotropes by stimulating the synthesis of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors. To test activin's effects on GnRH target cells, pituitary cells from diestrous or proestrous rats were exposed to media with and without 60 ng/ml activin for 24 hr and stimulated with biotinylated GnRH (Bio-GnRH). The populations were double-labeled for Bio-GnRH and/or luteinizing hormone-beta (LH-beta), FSH-beta, or GH antigens. In both diestrous and proestrous rats, activin stimulated more LH and FSH cells and increased the percentages of GnRH target cells. In diestrous rats, activin stimulated increases in the average area and density of Bio-GnRH label on target cells. In addition, more FSH, LH, and GH cells bound Bio-GnRH. The increment in binding by gonadotropes was not as great as that normally seen from diestrus to proestrus, suggesting that additional factors (such as estradiol) may be needed. These data suggest that activin plays an important role in the augmentation of Bio-GnRH target cells normally seen before ovulation. Its actions on GH cells may reflect a role in the transitory change from a somatotrope to a somatogonadotrope that is seen from diestrus to proestrus.
The 5' flanking region of the human VAChT gene was sequenced to approx 5350 bases upstream of the initiating methionine codon of the VAChT open reading frame (orf). The 5' flanks of the human and rat cholinergic gene loci were compared to identify regions of local sequence conservation, and therefore of potential regulatory importance. Several discrete domains of high homology, including a cluster of far-upstream cis-active consensus motifs, a neuronally restrictive silencer element consensus sequence, and additional conserved sequences within the putative nerve growth factor response domain of the locus, were identified. The probable start of transcription of the VAChT gene was deduced from mapping of sequences of rat and human VAChT cDNAs onto the 5' flanking regions of the human and rat cholinergic gene loci. The actual utilization of a putative 5' VAChT exon in rat central nervous system (CNS) tissue was assessed by in situ hybridization histochemistry. RNA transcripts containing both VAChT and ChAT protein-coding sequences were abundant in spinal cord motoneurons, sympathetic preganglionic cells, basal forebrain, striatum, and cranial motor nuclei. R-exon-containing transcripts could be detected only at low levels in these cell groups, implying that most transcription of VAChT proceeds from a promoter downstream of the R-exon. To assess the structural requirements for expression of the VAChT gene without bias regarding the actual start of transcription, a 5' fragment of the human gene corresponding to approximately 3 kb of sequence extending upstream from within the presumed 5' untranslated region of VAChT itself was fused to a luciferase-encoding reporter and transfected into VAChT-expressing and nonexpressing human and rat cell lines. This portion of the VAChT gene provided strong promoter expression in both cholinergic and noncholinergic cell lines. Deletion of the putative neuronally restrictive silencer element (NRSE) resulted in enhanced transcription in all cell lines. Lack of differential expression of VAChT transcription in VAChT-expressing vs non-VAChT-expressing cell lines suggested that additional enhancer elements controlling cell-specific expression of the VAChT gene exist further upstream in the cholinergic locus 5' flank. Conservation of potential cis-active elements within a 1.4 kb sequence immediately upstream of the NRSE in both rat and human cholinergic gene loci suggests that this domain is required for cholinergic-specific regulation of VAChT and ChAT gene transcription.
Although the predominant GABAA receptor isoform in the adult rodent central nervous system is a ternary complex composed of alpha 1 beta 2/3 gamma 2-subunits, small populations of binary receptors lacking beta-subunits (i.e., complexes containing alpha gamma-subunits) have also been identified. When expressed in HEK 293 cells, recombinant GABAA receptors composed of either alpha 1 beta 2/3 gamma 2- or alpha 1 gamma 2-subunits form benzodiazepine-responsive, GABA-gated chloride channels. The objective of this study was to compare the ability of a prototypic benzodiazepine (diazepam) to augment GABA-gated chloride currents in these binary and ternary receptor isoforms. The potency of GABA was characteristically increased by diazepam (1 microM) in both receptor isoforms, but this increase was significantly greater (p &lt; 0.05) in receptors composed of alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 2-subunits (approximately five- to sixfold) compared to alpha 1 gamma 2-subunits (approximately 2.2-fold). At GABA concentrations approximating its EC50 value (5 microM), the greater augmentation observed in ternary receptors was attributable to a higher efficacy of diazepam. Radioligand binding studies revealed that the Bmax of [3H]flunitrazepam was increased approximately 1.8- and 3.5-fold in cells expressing alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 2- and alpha 1 beta 3 gamma 2-subunits, respectively, compared to cells expressing alpha 1 gamma 2-subunits. A similar increase (approximately 3.8-fold) in the Bmax of [3H]Ro 15-4513 was observed in HEK 293 cells transiently transfected with cDNAs encoding alpha 6 beta 3 gamma 2-compared to alpha 6 gamma 2-subunits. The Kd values of these radioligands were not different in binary and ternary receptor isoforms. It is hypothesized that the greater efficacy of diazepam in alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 2 compared to alpha 1 gamma 2 GABAA receptors results from the higher benzodiazepine binding site density produced by the formation of a ternary complex.
Antidepressant therapies include drugs with a remarkable structural diversity and non-pharmacological interventions, such as electroconvulsive shock. Although the primary neurochemical effects of these treatments may differ, the &gt; or = 2- to 3-wk lag in therapeutic onset has led to the hypothesis that adaptive changes in a final common pathway are required for an antidepressant action. Based on this hypothesis, we sought to identify and characterize common changes in gene expression following chronic antidepressant treatments. We utilized a differential display strategy to identify genes that were differentially expressed in mice following chronic treatment with imipramine and electroconvulsive shock. Differential display PCR followed by subcloning, screening by reverse Northern blot, and confirmation by Northern blot revealed a significant increase in the expression of one gene candidate from mouse cortex following antidepressant treatments. The sequence of this 193-bp gene candidate was an exact match to the DNA sequence of mouse mitochondrial cytochrome b. In contrast to the increased mRNA levels of cytochrome b found in cortex, chronic treatment with these antidepressants did not alter mRNA levels in hippocampus, cerebellum, or liver. Moreover, no differences in cortical levels of cytochrome b mRNA were observed after either acute antidepressant treatments or chronic treatment with nonantidepressant drugs (haloperidol and morphine). The observation that chronic, but not acute treatment with imipramine and electroconvulsive shock produces a region-specific change in the levels of mRNA encoding cytochrome b suggests that this enzyme may be involved in the sequence of events resulting in an antidepressant action.
The expression of Na,K-ATPase alpha 1- and alpha 3-mRNAs was analyzed by in situ hybridization in the superior frontal cortex and cerebellum of brains from five Alzheimer's disease (AD), five nondemented age-matched, and three young control subjects. Brains with well-preserved RNA, tested by Northern hybridization of immobilized RNA with [32P]-labeled human beta-actin riboprobe, were chosen for analysis. In situ hybridization was performed on formalin-fixed, 5 microns-thick Paraplast sections with [35S]-labeled riboprobes prepared by in vitro transcription of the respective linearized clones: a 537-bp EcoRI-PstI fragment of alpha 1-cDNA and a 342-bp PstI-EcoRI fragment of alpha 3-cDNA. In cortex, grains related to mRNA were measured by density per unit area in five cortical columns separated by 1.0-1.2 cm in each of two adjacent sections. Each cortical column of 180-micron width was divided into four depths orthogonal to the pial surface between the pia and the white matter. Amyloid plaques were counted in the same regions of adjacent sections. In addition, alpha 3-mRNA grain clusters over individual pyramidal neurons within depth 4 were analyzed. We found the following significant changes (p &lt; 0.05): 1. Increases in total alpha 1-mRNA by 13-19% in AD compared to young and by 7-12% in AD compared to age-matched controls. 2. Decrease in total alpha 3-mRNA by 31-38% in AD compared to young and age-matched controls. 3. Decrease in alpha 3-mRNA content over individual pyramidal perikarya by 14% in normal aged brains without plaques compared to young controls, and by 44% in AD relative to young controls and by 35% compared to age-matched controls. No significant difference (p &lt; 0.2) was found with respect to alpha 1- or alpha 3-mRNA in cerebellar cortex or individual Purkinje cells among any of the groups. In addition, there was a trend toward an inverse correlation between the levels of alpha 3-mRNA and of diffuse plaques, but not of neuritic plaques, in AD cases. In conclusion: 1. The increases in alpha 1-mRNA in AD may be related to an increased reactive gliosis. 2. The declines in alpha 3-mRNA per individual neuron found in normal aging occur prior to the formation of diffuse plaques and are greatly accelerated in AD. 3. The declines in alpha 3-mRNA per neuron found in normal aging may predispose to or potentiate AD pathogenesis.
The protein kinase activity tightly associated with paired helical filaments (PHFs) purified from the brain tissue of individuals with Alzheimer's disease has been characterized in vitro. The activity is shown to phosphorylate casein, an exogenous substrate, with a maximal velocity of approximately 2 nmol/min/mg, suggesting it comprises a significant component of the total protein in the PHF preparation. On the basis of substrate selectivity, isoquinoline sulfonamide inhibitor selectivity, in-gel renaturation assays, and western analysis, the activity consists of closely related members of the alpha branch of the casein kinase 1 family of protein kinases. Because of its tight association with PHFs and its phosphate-directed substrate selectivity, casein kinase 1 is positioned to participate in the pathological hyperphosphorylation of tau protein that is observed in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.
Agmatine (decarboxylated arginine), an endogenous ligand for imidazoline receptors, has been identified in brain where it is synthesized from arginine by arginine decarboxylase. Here we report a mechanism for the transport of agmatine into rat brain synaptosomes. The uptake of agmatine was energy- and temperature-dependent and saturable with a Km of 18.83 +/- 3.31 mM and a Vmax of 4.78 +/- 0.67 nmol/mg of protein/min. Treatment with ouabain (Na+,K+-ATPase inhibitor) or removal of extracellular Na+ did not attenuate the uptake rate. Agmatine transport was not inhibited by amino acids, polyamines, or monoamines, indicating that the uptake is not mediated by any amino acid, polyamine, or monoamine carriers. When we examined the effects of some ion-channel agents on agmatine uptake, only Ca2+-channel blockers inhibited the uptake, whereas a reduction in extracellular Ca2+ increased it. In addition, some imidazoline drugs, such as idazoxan and phentolamine, were strong noncompetitive inhibitors of agmatine uptake. Thus, a selective, Na+-independent uptake system for agmatine exists in brain and may be important in regulating the extracellular concentration of agmatine.
One of the problems faced when using heterologous expression systems to study receptors is that the pharmacological and physiological properties of expressed receptors often differ from those of native receptors. In the case of neuronal nicotinic receptors, one or two subunit cDNAs are sufficient for expression of functional receptors in Xenopus oocytes. However, the stoichiometries of nicotinic receptors in neurons are not known and expression patterns of mRNA coding for different nicotinic receptor subunits often overlap. Consequently, one explanation for the discrepancy between properties of native versus heterologously expressed nicotinic receptors is that more than two types of subunit are necessary for correctly functioning receptors. The Xenopus oocyte expression system was used to test the hypothesis that more than two types of subunit can coassemble; specifically, can two different beta subunits assemble with an alpha subunit forming a receptor with unique pharmacological properties? We expressed combinations of cDNA coding for alpha3, beta2, and beta4 subunits. Beta2 and beta4, in pairwise combination with alpha3, are differentially sensitive to cytisine and neuronal bungarotoxin (nBTX). Alpha3beta4 receptors are activated by cytisine and are not blocked by low concentrations of nBTX; acetylcholine-evoked currents through alpha3beta2 receptors are blocked by both cytisine and low concentrations of nBTX. Coinjection of cDNA coding for alpha3, beta2, and beta4 into oocytes resulted in receptors that were activated by cytisine and blocked by nBTX, thus demonstrating inclusion of both beta2 and beta4 subunits in functional receptors.
This study describes the ultrastructural localization of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) immunoreactivity in the cat ventrobasal complex. NOS immunoreactivity was found in the cell bodies and dendrites of local circuit neurons and in vesicle-containing profiles. The vesicle-containing profiles could be divided into two classes, those of dendritic origin (presynaptic dendrite boutons) and those of axonal origin. The NOS labelled axon terminals varied in size and packing density and were principally located in the extra-glomerular neuropil. These boutons presented a range of morphologies and it was not possible to determine the probable source based on morphological criteria. The NOS immunoreactive presynaptic dendrite boutons were found both within and outside glomeruli and established both pre- and post-synaptic relationships with other elements. Post-embedding GABA immunocytochemistry showed that some NOS immunoreactive axonal boutons and presynaptic dendrites were also immunopositive for GABA. This finding suggests that some of the NOS labelled axonal boutons are of local circuit neuron origin. These results suggest that local circuit neurons in the cat ventrobasal complex might be involved in specific, short range interactions using GABA and longer, more global interactions using nitric oxide.

There is increasing evidence that oxidative damage plays a major role in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), but how it contributes to motor neuron degeneration and astrocytic gliosis, two pathologic hallmarks of the disease, is unknown. A few studies have suggested that ALS motor neurons die via apoptosis and show upregulation of c-jun, an immediate early gene that is necessary for neuronal apoptosis. In order to elucidate the mechanisms of cell damage induced by oxidant stress, we have studied in ALS and control spinal cord the immunohistochemical expression of c-Jun, of JNK/SAPK, a kinase that activates c-Jun following various types of stress, and of NF-kappa B, a transcription factor that is induced by oxidant stress and has prominent neuroprotective functions. An in situ end-labeling assay was performed for detecting apoptotic cells. We show that (a) the JNK/SAPK-c-Jun pathway is dramatically overexpressed in ALS spinal cord; (b) the strongest activation occurs in astrocytes, while motor neurons show unusually low expression of the pathway; (c) increased JNK/SAPK expression in glial cells is accompanied by NF-kappa B activation, indicating the presence of a protective response to oxidant sress, which is deficient in motor neurons; (d) activation of JNK/SAPK, c-Jun and NF-kappa B is unrelated to apoptotic cell death. These results support the view that astrocytes are directly involved in the pathologic process of ALS, and might explain the selective vulnerability of motor neurons by their relative lack of antioxidant defenses.
We examined the rhythmogenic capacity of the midbody D3-D7 spinal cord during stimulation of the rostral scratch reflex in turtles. Fictive scratching was recorded bilaterally as electroneurograms (ENGs) from prehindlimb enlargement nerves [transverse D7 (TD7) and oblique D7 (OD7)] and hip flexor nerves (HF). TD7 and OD7 innervate transverse- and oblique-abdominus muscles, respectively. D3-end preparations had intact spinal cords caudal to a D2-D3 transection site. Unilateral stimulation of the rostral receptive field in D3-end preparations evoked rhythmic bursting in the ipsilateral (ipsi) HF nerve and bilateral rhythmic discharge in the TD7 and OD7 nerves. Right HF bursts were coactive with right TD7 and left OD7 bursts and alternated with left TD7 and right OD7 bursts. D3-D7 preparations received a second spinal transection at the caudal end of segment D7, thus resulting in activation of strictly preenlargement circuitry in response to rostral scratch stimulation and preventing activation of hindlimb enlargement circuitry in segments D8-S2. D3-D7 preparations responded to unilateral stimulation with modulated or tonic discharge in the ipsi TD7 and contralateral (contra) OD7 nerves. In contrast, bilateral stimulation reestablished robust bursting in which coactive right TD7-left OD7 bursts alternated with coactive left TD7-right OD7 bursts. These data imply that TD7 circuit modules make 1) crossed excitatory connections with contra OD7 circuitry, 2) crossed inhibitory connections with contra TD7 circuitry, and 3) uncrossed inhibitory connections with ipsi OD7 circuitry. Our results also suggest that bilateral stimulation evokes rhythmic alternation in the preenlargment cord by simultaneously exciting reciprocally inhibitory circuit modules.
We studied the effects of activation of the metabotropic glutamate receptors on intrinsic currents of magnocellular n urons of the supraoptic nucleus (SON) with whole cell patch-clamp and conventional intracellular recordings in coronal slices (400 micron) of the rat hypothalamus. Trans-(+/-)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentane dicarboxylic acid (trans-ACPD, 10-100 microM), a broad-spectrum metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, evoked an inward current (18.7 +/- 3.45 pA) or a slow depolarization (7.35 +/- 4.73 mV) and a 10-30% decrease in whole cell conductance in approximately 50% of the magnocellular neurons recorded at resting membrane potential. The decrease in conductance and the inward current were caused largely by the attenuation of a resting potassium conductance because they were reduced by the replacement of intracellular potassium with an equimolar concentration of cesium or by the addition of potassium channel blockers to the extracellular medium. In some cells, trans-ACPD still elicited a small inward current after blockade of potassium currents, which was abolished by the calcium channel blocker, CdCl2. Trans-ACPD also reduced voltage-gated and Ca2+-activated K+ currents in these cells. Trans-ACPD reduced the transient outward current (IA) by 20-70% and/or the IA-mediated delay to spike generation in approximately 60% of magnocellular neurons tested. The cells that showed a reduction of IA generally also showed a 20-60% reduction in a voltage-gated, sustained outward current. Finally, trans-ACPD attenuated the Ca2+-dependent outward current responsible for the afterhyperpolarization (IAHP) in approximately 60% of cells tested. This often revealed an underlying inward current thought to be responsible for the depolarizing afterpotential seen in some magnocellular neurons. (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine, a group I receptor-selective agonist, mimicked the effects of trans-ACPD on the resting and voltage-gated K+ currents. (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine, a group I/II metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, blocked these effects. A group II receptor agonist, 2S,1'S,2'S-2carboxycyclopropylglycine and a group III receptor agonist, (+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid, had no effect on the resting or voltage-gated K+ currents, indicating that the reduction of K+ currents was mediated by group I receptors. About 80% of the SON cells that were labeled immunohistochemically for vasopressin responded to metabotropic glutamate receptor activation, whereas only 33% of labeled oxytocin cells responded, suggesting that metabotropic receptors are expressed preferentially in vasopressinergic neurons. These data indicate that activation of the group I metabotropic glutamate receptors leads to an increase in the postsynaptic excitability of magnocellular neurons by blocking resting K+ currents as well as by reducing voltage-gated and Ca2+-activated K+ currents.
Cyclic or repeated movements are thought to be driven by networks of neurons (central pattern generators) that are dynamic in their connectivity. During two unrelated behaviors (feeding and egg laying), we investigated the behavioral output of the buccal pattern generator as well as the electrical activity of a pair of identified interneurons that have been shown to be involved in setting the level of activity of this pattern generator (PG). Analysis of the quantile plots of the parameters that describe the behavior (movements of the buccal mass) reveals that during egg laying, the behavioral output of the PG is different compared with that during feeding. Comparison of the average durations of the different parts of the buccal movements showed that during egg laying, the duration of one specific part of buccal movement is increased. Correlated with these changes in the behavioral output of the PG were changes in the firing rate of the cerebral giant neurons (CGC), a pair of interneurons that have been shown to modulate the activity of the PG by means of multiple synaptic contacts with neurons in the buccal ganglion. Interval- and autocorrelation histograms of the behavioral output and CGC spiking show that both the PG output and the spiking properties of the CGCs are different when comparing egg-laying animals with feeding animals. Analysis of the timing relations between the CGCs and the behavioral output of the PG showed that both during feeding and egg laying, the electrical activity of the CGCs is largely in phase with the PG output, although small changes occur. We discuss how these results lead to specific predictions about the kinds of changes that are likely to occur when the animal switches the PG from feeding to egg laying and how the hormones that cause egg laying are likely to be involved.
Electrophysiological and pharmacological methods were used to examine the role of glutamate in mediating the excitatory and inhibitory responses produced by the N2v rasp phase neurons on postsynaptic cells of the Lymnaea feeding network. The N2v --&gt; B3 motor neuron excitatory synaptic response could be mimicked by focal or bath application of -glutamate at concentrations of &gt;/=10(-3) M. Quisqualate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) were potent agonists for the B3 excitatory glutamate receptor (10(-3) M), whereas kainate only produced very weak responses at the same concentration. This suggested that non-N-methyl--aspartate (NMDA), AMPA/quisqualate receptors were present on the B3 cell. The specific non-NMDA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX; 10(-5) M) blocked 85% of the excitatory effects on the B3 cell produced by focal application of glutamate (10(-3) M), confirming the presence of non-NMDA receptors. CNQX also blocked the major part of the excitatory postsynaptic potentials on the B3 cell produced by spontaneous or current-evoked bursts of spikes in the N2v cell. As with focal application of glutamate, a small delayed component remained that was CNQX insensitive. This provided direct evidence that glutamate acting via receptors of the non-NMDA, AMPA/quisqualate type were responsible for mediating the main N2v --&gt; B3 cell excitatory response. NMDA at 10(-2) M also excited the B3 cell, but the effects were much more variable in size and absent in one-third of the 25 B3 cells tested. NMDA effects on B3 cells were not enhanced by bath application of glycine at 10(-4) M or reduction of Mg2+ concentration in the saline to zero, suggesting the absence of typical NMDA receptors. The variability of the B3 cell responses to NMDA suggested these receptors were unlikely to be the main receptor type involved with N2v --&gt; B3 excitation. Quisqualate and AMPA at 10(-3) M also mimicked N2v inhibitory effects on the B7 and B8 feeding motor neurons and the modulatory slow oscillator (SO) interneuron, providing further evidence for the role of AMPA/quisqualate receptors. Similar effects were seen with glutamate at the same concentration. However, CNQX could not block either glutamate or N2v inhibitory postsynaptic responses on the B7, B8, or SO cells, suggesting a different glutamate receptor subtype for inhibitory responses compared with those responsible for N2v --&gt; B3 excitation. We conclude that glutamate is a strong candidate transmitter for the N2v cells and that AMPA/quisquate receptors of different subtypes are likely to be responsible for the excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic responses.
We aimed to show that the paired N2v (N2 ventral) plateauing cells of the buccal ganglia are important central pattern generator (CPG) interneurons of the Lymnaea feeding system. N2v plateauing is phase-locked to the rest of the CPG network in a slow oscillator (SO)-driven fictive feeding rhythm. The phase of the rhythm is reset by artificially evoked N2v bursts, a characteristic of CPG neurons. N2v cells have extensive input and output synaptic connections with the rest of the CPG network and the modulatory SO cell and cerebral giant cells (CGCs). Synaptic input from the protraction phase interneurons N1M (excitatory), N1L (inhibitory), and SO (inhibitory-excitatory) are likely to contribute to a ramp-shaped prepotential that triggers the N2v plateau. The prepotential has a highly complex waveform due to progressive changes in the amplitude of the component synaptic potentials. Most significant is the facilitation of the excitatory component of the SO --&gt; N2v monosynaptic connection. None of the other CPG interneurons has the appropriate input synaptic connections to terminate the N2v plateaus. The modulatory function of acetylcholine (ACh), the transmitter of the SO and N1M/N1Ls, was examined. Focal application of ACh (50-ms pulses) onto the N2v cells reproduced the SO --&gt; N2v biphasic synaptic response but also induced long-term plateauing (20-60 s). N2d cells show no endogenous ability to plateau, but this can be induced by focal applications of ACh. The N2v cells inhibit the N3 tonic (N3t) but not the N3 phasic (N3p) CPG interneurons. The N2v --&gt; N3t inhibitory synaptic connection is important in timing N3t activity. The N3t cells recover from this inhibition and fire during the swallow phase of the feeding pattern. Feedback N2v inhibition to the SO, N1L protraction phase interneurons prevents them firing during the retraction phase of the feeding cycle. The N2v --&gt; N1M synaptic connection was weak and only found in 50% of preparations. A weak N2v --&gt; CGC inhibitory connection prevents the CGCs firing during the rasp (N2) phase of the feeding cycle. These data allowed a new model for the Lymnaea feeding CPG to be proposed. This emphasizes that each of the six types of CPG interneuron has a unique set of synaptic connections, all of which contribute to the generation of a full CPG pattern.
Intracellular recording techniques were used to examine the electrical properties and behavioral function of a novel type of retraction phase interneuron, the N2 ventral (N2v) cells in the feeding network of the snail Lymnaea. The N2vs were compared with the previously identified N2 cells that now are renamed the N2 dorsal (N2d) cells. The N2vs are a bilaterally symmetrical pair of electrotonically coupled plateauing interneurons that are located on the ventral surfaces of the buccal ganglia. Their main axons project to the opposite buccal ganglion, but they have an additional fine process in the postbuccal nerve. N2v plateaus that outlast the duration of the stimulus can be triggered by depolarizing current pulses and prematurely terminated by applied hyperpolarizing pulses. Gradually increasing the amplitude of depolarizing pulses reveals a clear threshold for plateau initiation. N2v plateauing persists in a high Mg2+/nominally zero Ca2+ saline that blocks chemical synaptic connections, suggesting an endogenous mechanism for plateau generation. The N2vs fire sustained bursts of action potentials throughout the N2/rasp phase of the fictive feeding cycle and control the retraction phase feeding motor neurons. The N2vs excite the B3 and B9 feeding motor neurons to fire during the rasp phase of the feeding cycle. They also inhibit the B7 and B8 feeding motor neurons. The B8 cells recover from inhibition and fire during the following swallowing phase. These synaptic connections appear to be monosynaptic as they persist in high Mg2+/high Ca2+ (HiDi) saline that blocks polysynaptic pathways. Strong current-induced plateaus in the N2vs generate brief inhibitory postsynaptic responses in the B4CL rasp phase motor neurons, but this was due to the indirect N2v --&gt; N2d --&gt; B4CL pathway. The N2vs are coupled electrotonically to the N2d cells, and triggering plateau in a N2v usually induced one or two spikes in a N2d. Previous experiments showed that the N2ds generate plateau potentials during a fictive feeding cycle. Here we show that the main component of the &quot;plateauing&quot; waveform is due to the electrotonic coupling with the N2v cells. The differential synaptic connections of the N2v and N2d cells with retraction phase motor neurons results in a sequence of motor neuron burst activity B9 --&gt; B4CL --&gt; B8 that produces the full retraction (rasp --&gt; swallow) movements of the feeding apparatus (buccal mass). We conclude that the N2v cells are an essential component of the interneuronal network required to produce feeding motor neuron activity.
To examine mechanisms responsible for the long-term regulation of Ca2+-channels in an adult neuron, changes in whole cell Ba2+ current (IBa) were examined in adult bullfrog sympathetic ganglion B cells in vitro. Cells were cultured at low density in defined, serum free medium. After 15 days, total IBa was similar to the initial value, whereas IBa density was reduced by approximately 36%, presumably due to an increase in neuronal surface area. By contrast, IBa density remained constant after 6-15 days in the presence of murine beta-NGF (200 ng/ml), and total IBa was almost doubled. Inclusion of cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C; 10 microM) to inhibit proliferation of nonneuronal cells, did not affect the survival of neurons in the absence of nerve growth factor (NGF) nor did it attenuate IBa. Ara-C did not prevent the effect of NGF on IBa. There were three independent components to the action of NGF; during 6-9 days, it increased omega-conotoxin-GVIA-sensitive N-type IBa (IBa,N); increased nifedipine-sensitive L-type IBa (IBa,L) and decreased inactivation of the total Ba2+ conductance (gBa). The latter effect involved a selective decrease in the amplitude of one of the four kinetic components that describe the inactivation process. Total IBa was also 55.8% larger than control in the somata of B cells acutely dissociated from leopard frogs that had received prior subcutaneous injections of NGF. By contrast, injection of NGF antiserum decreased total IBa by 29.4%. There was less inactivation of gBa in B cells from NGF-injected animals than in cells from animals injected with NGF antiserum (P &lt; 0.001). These data suggest that NGF-like molecule(s) play(s) a role in the maintenance of IBa in an adult amphibian sympathetic neuron; the presence of NGF may allow the neuron to maintain a constant relationship between cell size and current density. They also show that IBa inactivation in an adult neuron can be modulated in a physiologically relevant way by an extracellular ligand.
Anterograde labeling techniques were used to examine peripheral innervation patterns of vestibular efferent neurons in the crista ampullares of the gerbil. Vestibular efferent neurons were labeled by extracellular injections of biocytin or biotinylated dextran amine into the contralateral or ipsilateral dorsal subgroup of efferent cell bodies (group e) located dorsolateral to the facial nerve genu. Anterogradely labeled efferent terminal field varicosities consist mainly of boutons en passant with fewer of the terminal type. The bouton swellings are located predominately in apposition to the basolateral borders of the afferent calyces and type II hair cells, but several boutons were identified close to the hair cell apical border on both types. Three-dimensional reconstruction and morphological analysis of the terminal fields from these cells located in the sensory neuroepithelium of the anterior, horizontal, and posterior cristae were performed. We show that efferent neurons densely innervate each end organ in widespread terminal fields. Subepithelial bifurcations of parent axons were minimal, with extensive collateralization occurring after the axons penetrated the basement membrane of the neuroepithelium. Axonal branching ranged between the 6th and 27th orders and terminal field collecting area far exceeds that of the peripheral terminals of primary afferent neurons. The terminal fields of the efferent neurons display three morphologically heterogeneous types: central, peripheral, and planum. All cell types possess terminal fields displaying a high degree of anisotropy with orientations typically parallel to or within +/-45 degrees of the longitudinal axis if the crista. Terminal fields of the central and planum zones predominately project medially toward the transverse axis from the more laterally located penetration of the basement membrane by the parent axon. Peripheral zone terminal fields extend predominately toward the planum semilunatum. The innervation areas of efferent terminal fields display a trend from smallest to largest for the central, peripheral, and planum types, respectively. Neurons that innervate the central zone of the crista do not extend into the peripheral or planum regions. Conversely, those neurons with terminal fields in the peripheral or planum regions do not innervate the central zone of the sensory neuroepithelium. The central zone of the crista is innervated preferentially by efferent neurons with cell bodies located in the ipsilateral group e. The peripheral and planum zones of the crista are innervated preferentially by efferent neurons with cell bodies located in the contralateral group e. A model incorporating our anatomic observations is presented describing an ipsilateral closed-loop feedback between ipsilateral efferent neurons and the periphery and an open-loop feed-forward innervation from contralateral efferent neurons. A possible role for the vestibular efferent neurons in the modulation of semicircular canal afferent response dynamics is proposed.
The present experiments were designed to elucidate the time frame in which an evoked cholinergic impulse decreases the Ca2+-dependent K+ current (IsAHP) in hippocampal CA1 neurons, and to determine to what extent acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors enhance the efficacy of the cholinergic impulse. Whole cell voltage-clamp recordings were performed on hippocampal CA1 neurons of rat brain slices and IsAHPs were evoked by constant depolarizing pulses. Cholinergic afferent fibers in stratum oriens were stimulated electrically and the time interval between the afferent stimulus and the depolarizing pulse was varied from 1 to 30 s. In slices perfused with the standard external medium, the afferent stimulus caused a profound decrease in the following IsAHP only when the stimulus preceded the depolarizing pulse by 1-2 s. The stimulus was without effects on the IsAHP when applied &gt;/=5s before the depolarizing pulse. The effects of the afferent stimulus were greatly enhanced in CA1 neurons exposed to the catalytic AChE inhibitors neostigmine, physostigmine, or 9-amino-1,2,3, 4-tetrahydro-acridine. A substantial decrease in the IsAHP was observed even when the stimulus preceded the depolarizing pulse by &gt;/=30 s. However applications of peripheral site AChE inhibitors decamethonium and propidium caused only minor or no enhancement of the IsAHP reduction after the afferent stimulus. We suggest in physiological conditions that muscarinic modulation of ionic conductances of CNS neurons has a limited time course after a cholinergic impulse and that the modulation is greatly enhanced and prolonged when catalytic activities of AChEs are suppressed pharmacologically.
To test the effects of complex visual motion stimuli on the responses of single neurons in the middle temporal visual area (MT) and the medial superior temporal area (MST) of the macaque monkey, we compared the response elicited by one object in motion through the receptive field with the response of two simultaneously presented objects moving in different directions through the receptive field. There was an increased response to a stimulus moving in a direction other than the best direction when it was paired with a stimulus moving in the best direction. This increase was significant for all directions of motion of the non-best stimulus and the magnitude of the difference increased as the difference in the directions of the two stimuli increased. Similarly, there was a decreased response to a stimulus moving in a non-null direction when it was paired with a stimulus moving in the null direction. This decreased response in MT did not reach significance unless the second stimulus added to the null direction moved in the best direction, whereas in MST the decrease was significant when the second stimulus direction differed from the null by 90 degrees or more. Further analysis showed that the two-object responses were better predicted by taking the averaged response of the neuron to the two single-object stimuli than by summation, multiplication, or vector addition of the responses to each of the two single-object stimuli. Neurons in MST showed larger modulations than did neurons in MT with stimuli moving in both the best direction and in the null direction and the average better predicted the two-object response in area MST than in area MT. This indicates that areas MT and MST probably use a similar integrative mechanisms to create their responses to complex moving visual stimuli, but that this mechanism is further refined in MST. These experiments show that neurons in both MT and MST integrate the motion of all directions in their responses to complex moving stimuli. These results with the motion of objects were in sound agreement with those previously reported with the use of random dot patterns for the study of transparent motion in MT and suggest that these neurons use similar computational mechanisms in the processing of object and global motion stimuli.
Senosory neurons manifest pronounced changes in excitability during maturation, but the factors contributing to this ubiquitous developmental phenomenon are not well understood. To assess the contribution of intrinsic membrane properties to such changes in excitability, in the present study whole cell patch-clamp recordings were made from developing ganglion cells in the intact retina of postnatal rats. During a relatively brief developmental period (postnatal days P7-P27) ganglion cells exhibited pronounced changes in the discharge patterns generated by depolarizing current injections. The youngest cells (P7-P17) typically responded to maintained depolarizations with only a single spike or a rapidly adapting discharge pattern. In contrast, the predominant response mode of more mature cells (P21-P27) was a series of repetitive discharges that lasted for the duration of the depolarization period, and by P25 all cells responded in this manner. These functional changes characterized all three morphologically defined cell classes identified by intracellular labeling with Lucifer yellow. To determine if expression of the potassium current (Ia) and the kinetics of the Na-channel related to the increased excitability of developing ganglion cells described above, current- and voltage-clamp recordings were made from individual neurons. The different firing patterns manifested by developing retinal ganglion cells did not reflect the presence or absence of the Ia conductance, although cells expressing Ia tended to generate spikes of shorter duration. With maturation the speed of recovery from inactivation of the Na current increased markedly and this related to the increased excitability of developing ganglion cells. Neurons yielding only a single spike to maintained depolarization were characterized by the slowest speed of recovery; cells with rapidly adapting discharges showed a faster recovery and those capable of repetitive firing recovered fastest from Na-channel inactivation. It is suggested that these changes in intrinsic membrane properties may relate to the different functional roles subserved by ganglion cells during development.
Using whole cell recording from CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons in slices, we examined the progressive decrease of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated synaptic responses in the presence of the open-channel blocker MK-801. Previous studies analyzing this decrease have proposed that hippocampal synapses fall into two distinct classes of release probabilities, whereas studies based on other methods indicate a broad distribution of synaptic reliabilities exists. Here we derive the theoretical relationship between the MK-801-mediated decrease in excitatory postsynaptic current amplitudes and the underlying distribution of synaptic reliabilities. We find that the MK-801 data are consistent with a continuous distribution of synaptic reliabilities, in agreement with studies examining individual synapses. In addition, changes in the MK-801-mediated decrease in response size as a consequence of altering release probability are consistent with this continuous distribution of synaptic reliabilities.
Egg laying in the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis is triggered by a discharge of the neuroendocrine caudodorsal cells (CDCs). The CDCs expresses three different caudorsal cell hormone (CDCH) genes. This gene family expresses, in total, 11 different peptides among which is the ovulation hormone. Besides the CDCs, the CDCH gene family is expressed in other central and peripheral neurons. In this study, we investigated the roles the different CDCH peptides play in the organization of egg-laying behavior. Egg-laying behavior is a sequence of stereotyped movements in which three phases can be distinguished: resting, turning, and oviposition. We have used the excitation of right pedal N (RPeN) motor neurons as a simple analogue of shell-turning behavior, one of the elements of egg-laying behavior. RPeN motor neurons were inhibited during the resting phase of egg laying but were subsequently excited at the onset of and during the turning phase. The excitatory effect could be evoked by application of beta3-CDCP on RPeN motor neurons in the CNS as well as in isolation but not by the ovulation hormone, alpha-CDCP or Calfluxin, the other CDCH-1 peptides tested. The ovulation hormone itself caused inhibition of RPeN motor neurons. Anti-CDCH-1 positive fiber tracts were found close to the cell bodies and axons of the RPeN motor neurons. Electrical stimulation of a nerve that contains these fibers resulted in excitation of the RPeN motor neurons. The effects of injection of CDCH-1 peptides into intact animals correlated well with the effects of these peptides on RPeN motor neurons. Injection of beta3-CDCP or alpha-CDCP into intact animals resulted in immediate turning behavior in the absence of egg laying itself. The ovulation hormone and Calfluxin had no immediate effect on the behavior. Furthermore, our data indicate that the individual CDCH-1 peptides act on different targets.
The reeler mutation in mice produces an especially well characterized disorder, with systematically abnormal migration of cerebral cortical neurons. The reeler gene encodes a large protein, termed Reelin, that in the cortex is synthesized and secreted exclusively in the Cajal-Retzius neurons of the cortical marginal zone (D'Arcangelo et al., 1995). In reeler mutant mice, loss of Reelin protein is associated with a systematic loss of the normal, &quot;inside-out&quot; sequence of neurogenesis in the cortex: neurons are formed in the normal sequence but become localized in the cortex in a somewhat inverted, although relatively disorganized &quot;outside-in&quot; pattern. Here we show that the scrambler mutant mouse exhibits a loss of lamination in the cortex and hippocampus that is indistinguishable from that seen in the reeler mouse. We use BrdU birthdating studies to show that scrambler cortex shows a somewhat inverted &quot;outside-in&quot; sequence of birthdates for cortical neurons that is similar to that previously described in reeler cortex. Finally, we perform staining with the CR-50 monoclonal antibody (Ogawa et al., 1995), which recognizes the Reelin protein (D'Arcangelo et al., 1997). We show that Reelin immunoreactivity is present in the scrambler cortex in a normal pattern, suggesting that Reelin is synthesized and released normally. Our data suggest that scrambler is a mutation in the same gene pathway as the reeler gene (Relnrl) and is most likely downstream of Relnrl.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) mediates the stimulatory effect of norepinephrine (NE) on the secretion of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), the neuropeptide controlling reproductive function. In rodents, this facilitatory effect requires previous exposure to estradiol, suggesting that the steroid affects downstream components in the cascade that leads to PGE2-induced LHRH release. Because astroglia are the predominant cell type contacting LHRH-secreting nerve terminals, we investigated the involvement of hypothalamic astrocytes in the estradiol facilitation of PGE2-induced LHRH release. A subpopulation of LHRH neurons was found to express the mRNA encoding the PGE2 receptor subtype EP1-R, which is coupled to calcium mobilization. The LHRH-producing cell line GT1-1 also contains EP1-R mRNA and, to a lesser extent, the three alternatively spliced forms of EP3-R mRNA (alpha, beta, and gamma) that encode receptors linked to inhibition and stimulation of cAMP formation. Hypothalamic astrocytes treated with estradiol produced a conditioned medium that when applied to GT1-1 cells resulted in a selective upregulation of EP1-R and EP3gamma-R mRNAs. The conditioned medium also enhanced the LHRH response to EP1-R and EP3-R agonists and the cAMP response to EP3-R activation. Thus, one mechanism by which estradiol facilitates the effect of neurotransmitters acting via PGE2 to stimulate LHRH release is by enhancing the glial production of substances that upregulate PGE2 receptors on LHRH neurons. The existence of such a mechanism underscores the emerging importance of glial-neuronal communication in the control of brain neurosecretory activity.
One of the more complex developmental processes occurring postnatally in the CNS is the formation of the myelin sheath by oligodendrocytes. To examine the molecular events that take place during myelination, we isolated oligodendrocyte-derived cDNA clones, one of which (p421.HB) represents a putative alternatively spliced isoform of rat brain-specific phosphodiesterase I (PD-Ialpha) and a species homolog of the human cytokine autotaxin. Analysis of the structural composition of the p421.HB/PD-Ialpha protein suggests a transmembrane-bound ectoenzyme, which, in addition to the phosphodiesterase-active site contains presumed cell recognition and Ca2+-binding domains. Consequently, it may be involved in extracellular signaling events. Expression of p421.HB/PD-Ialpha is enriched in brain and spinal cord, where its mRNA can be detected in oligodendrocytes and in cells of the choroid plexus. Expression in the brain increases during development with an intermediate peak of expression around the time of active myelination and maximal expression in the adult. We have identified four presumably alternatively spliced isoforms, two of which appear to be CNS-specific. Decreased levels of p421.HB/PD-Ialpha mRNA in the dysmyelinating mouse mutant jimpy, but not shiverer, suggest a role for p421.HB/PD-Ialpha during active myelination and/or late stages of oligodendrocyte differentiation. Furthermore, p421.HB/PD-Ialpha mRNA levels were reduced in the CNS at onset of clinical symptoms in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. These data together implicate the importance of p421.HB/PD-Ialpha in oligodendrocyte function, possibly through cell-cell and/or cell-extracellular matrix recognition.
Ischemia-induced cell damage studies have revealed a complex mechanism that is thought to involve glutamate excitotoxicity, intracellular calcium increase, and free radical production. We provide direct evidence that free radical generation occurs in rat CA1 pyramidal neurons of organotypic slices subjected to a hypoxic-hypoglycemic insult. The production of free radicals is temporally correlated with intracellular calcium elevation, as measured by injection of fluo-3 in individual pyramidal cells, using patch electrodes. Free radical production (measured as changes in the fluorescence emission of dihydrorhodamine 123) peaked during reoxygenation and paralleled rising intracellular calcium. Electrophysiological whole-cell recordings revealed membrane potential depolarization and decreased input resistance during the ischemic insult. Glutamate receptor blockade resulted in decreased free radical production and markedly diminished intracellular calcium accumulation, and prevented neuronal depolarization and input resistance decrease during the ischemic episode. These results provide evidence for a direct involvement of glutamate in oxidative damage resulting from ischemic episodes.
A mutation (S247F) in the channel-lining domain (M2) of the alpha4 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) subunit has previously been linked genetically to autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE). To better understand the functional significance of this mutation, we characterized the properties of mutant and wild-type human alpha4beta2 AChRs expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Both had similar expression levels and EC50 values for ACh and nicotine. Substantial use-dependent functional upregulation was found for mutant alpha4beta2 AChRs, but not for wild type. Mutant AChR responses showed faster desensitization, slower recovery from desensitization, less inward rectification, and virtually no Ca2+ permeability as compared with wild-type alpha4beta2 AChRs. Addition of the alpha5 subunit restored Ca2+ permeability to the mutant alpha4beta2alpha5 AChRs. At -80 mV, wild-type alpha4beta2 AChR single channel currents exhibited two conductances, each with two mean open times (gamma1 = 17 pS, tau1 = 3.7 msec, and tau2 = 23.4 msec; gamma2 = 28 pS, tau1 = 1.9 msec, and tau2 = 8.1 msec). In contrast, mutant AChRs exhibited only one conductance of 11 pS, with tau1 = 1.9 msec and tau2 = 4.1 msec. The net effect of the mutation is to reduce AChR function. This could result in the hyperexcitability characteristic of epilepsy if the mutant AChRs were part of an inhibitory circuit, e.g., presynaptically regulating the release of GABA. In the minority of AChRs containing the alpha5 subunit, the overall functionality of these AChRs could be maintained despite the mutation in the alpha4 subunit.
The outgrowth of neuronal processes involves a great increase in the surface area of the cell. The supply of membrane material necessarily must be coordinated with the demands for neurite growth. The selective growth of only one or two neurites at any given time during the development of polarity raises the possibility that the production of materials by the soma is limiting for growth (Dotti and Banker, 1987; Dotti et al., Goslin and Banker, 1990). To examine the role of the availability of membrane components during the development of polarity and axonal elongation, we treated neurons with brefeldin A, an antibiotic that disrupts the trafficking of vesicles from the Golgi complex to the plasma membrane. Treatment with brefeldin A (1 microg/ml) inhibited axonal growth within 0.5 hr; in unpolarized cells it prevented the formation of an axon. These results indicate that the availability of membrane components of Golgi-derived vesicles is required for axonal growth and hence the development of polarity. Inhibitors of protein and RNA synthesis also blocked axonal growth and the development of polarity, but over a much slower time course. This suggests that the full complement of proteins and mRNAs required for the initial development of polarity is present for several hours before polarity is actually established.
The aims of this study were to determine the optimal pretreatment of paraffin-embedded human brain sections for in situ hybridization using oligonucleotide probes. A selection of heating and enzymatic methods were compared and their effect on tissue morphology in addition to their ability to sensitise hybridization signal was investigated. In situ hybridization was carried out using a [35S]dATP 3'-end-labeled 30 base oligonucleotide specific for the human N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) NR1-1 receptor subunit. In human hippocampus, NMDA NR1-1 mRNA was detected in the dentate gyrus, CA1, CA2 and CA3 pyramidal neurons and subiculum. The optimal pretreatment of paraffin-embedded sections was autoclaving in citrate buffer, pH 6.0. This novel technique was as sensitive as carrying out in situ hybridization on routinely used fresh-frozen, post-fixed sections, but offers significant advantages including preservation of superior morphology, more efficient, safe and stable storage dynamics and ability to conduct in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical detection methods on adjacent or identical sections.
Many investigators studying oligodendrocytes in vitro have sought out cell lines because it has been difficult to obtain sufficient numbers of primary oligodendrocytes for study. This paper describes three methodological improvements that facilitate culturing oligodendrocytes. We show that by detaching progenitor cells using papain instead of trypsin the total yield of oligodendrocyte progenitors can be doubled. We also show that papain can be used to subculture differentiated oligodendrocytes. Finally we report that primary O-2A progenitors can be cryo-preserved, reducing the demand upon laboratory personnel to produce and propagate them.
Following spinal cord contusion in the rat, apoptosis has been observed in the white matter for long distances remote from the center of the lesion and is primarily associated with degenerating fiber tracts. We have previously reported that many of the apoptotic cells are oligodendrocytes. Here we show that the oligodendrocyte death is maximal at 8 days postinjury and suggest that loss of oligodendrocytes may result in demyelination of axons that have survived the initial trauma. There are two mechanisms that may account for the observed oligodendrocyte apoptosis. The apoptotic cell death may result from the loss of trophic support after axonal degeneration or it may be the consequence of microglial activation. The hypothesis that oligodendrocyte apoptosis is secondary to microglial activation is supported by our observations of microglia with an activated morphology in the same regions as apoptosis and apparent contact between some of the apoptotic oligodendrocytes and microglial processes. In addition to oligodendrocyte apoptosis, a subpopulation of microglia appears to be susceptible to apoptotic cell death as well, as evidenced by the presence of apoptotic bodies in OX42 immunopositive profiles. Thus, the population of apoptotic cells following spinal cord contusion is comprised of oligodendrocytes and putative phagocytic microglia or macrophages. Given the delayed time course of oligodendrocyte death, the apoptotic death of oligodendrocytes may be amenable to pharmacological intervention with subsequent improvement in functional recovery.
The major stages of oligodendrocyte differentiation are defined by the presence or absence of certain myelin-specific proteins. Events leading to the successful processing of these proteins, such as the folding, assembly, and trafficking of these proteins through the biosynthetic pathway, are largely undefined. In the present study, we have examined both cultured primary oligodendrocytes and immortalized oligodendrocyte cell lines for the presence of molecular chaperones and/or vesicle transport proteins. We find that a select set of these proteins are expressed relatively early in oligodendrocyte differentiation, whereas a characteristically different set of proteins are expressed at later stages of oligodendrocyte differentiation. In other systems, these proteins participate in the folding and assembly of protein complexes, in the prevention of protein aggregation, as well as the trafficking of proteins via vesicles to specific subcellular destinations including the plasma membrane. Some of the chaperones and/or vesicle transport proteins investigated in this study may play a pivotal role in the certain aspect of myelin biogenesis.
The authors report an unusual case of a traumatic aneurysm of the right superior cerebellar artery (SCA). A 22-year-old woman presented with continuous headaches that appeared 15 days after she experienced closed head trauma as a result of a cycling accident. Computerized tomography scanning performed 3 months later showed a nodular lesion on the free edge of the tentorium, which mimicked a meningioma. The aneurysm was identified on magnetic resonance angiography, which showed the SCA as the parent vessel. The parent vessel was trapped, and the aneurysm sac was excised via right temporal craniotomy. Pathological examination of the sac revealed a false aneurysm. The patient's outcome was excellent. The pathophysiology of traumatic aneurysm at such a location suggests that surgery may be the treatment of choice.
A 22-year-old male with unilateral facial, cochlear and glossopharyngeal cranial nerve dysfunction and ataxia that was slowly progressive over one year is described. Although clinically it was considered he probably had an acoustic neuroma, surgery revealed a pontine glioblastoma exophytic into the cerebellopontine angle and internal acoustic meatus. Clinicoradiological features that distinguish this extremely rare lesion of the hindbrain from acoustic neuroma are discussed.
Assessed survivors of childhood lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) treated with intrathecal chemotherapy, using the Wide Range Assessment of Memory and Learning (WRAML), compared to controls without cancer, matched as closely as possible in age, SES, and gender. Mild, but consistent, deficits were found in both visual-spatial and verbal single-trial memory tasks. In multitrial learning, only visual-spatial tasks resulted in deficient scores, while verbal learning was within the normal range. IQ results indicated scores 10-20 points lower in the ALL group. Memory results are related to deficits in strategic planning and attentional distractiveness. The WRAML may be a useful clinical tool to evaluate differential memory deficits in children with ALL.
Recent studies have shown that cimetidine, burimamide and improgan (also known as SKF92374, a cimetidine congener lacking H2 antagonist activity) induce antinociception after intracerebroventricular administration in rodents. Because these substances closely resemble the structure of histamine (a known mediator of some endogenous analgesic responses), yet no role for known histamine receptors has been found in the analgesic actions of these agents, the structure-activity relationships for the antinociceptive effects of 21 compounds chemically related to H2 and H3 antagonists were investigated in this study. Antinociceptive activity was assessed on the hot-plate and tail-flick tests after intracerebroventricular administration in rats. Eleven compounds induced time-dependent (10-min peak) and dose-dependent antinociceptive activity with no observable behavioral impairment. ED50 values, estimated by nonlinear regression, were highly correlated across nociceptive assays (r2 = 0.98, n = 11). Antinociceptive potencies varied more than 6-fold (80-464 nmol), but were not correlated with activity on H1, H2 or H3 receptors. Although highly potent H3 antagonists such as thioperamide lacked antinociceptive activity, homologs of burimamide and thioperamide containing N-aromatic substituents retained H3 antagonist activity and also showed potent, effective analgesia. A literature review of the pharmacology of these agents did not find a basis for their antinociceptive effects. Taken with previous findings, the present results suggest: 1) these compounds act on the brain to activate powerful analgesic responses that are independent of known histamine receptors, 2) the structure-activity profile of these agents is novel and 3) brain-penetrating derivatives of these compounds could be clinically useful analgesics.
Both acute and chronic treatments with the glycine partial agonist 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) are neuroprotective in animal models of focal, global and spinal ischemia. After a chronic regimen of ACPC, brain and plasma levels were undetectable at the time of ischemic insult, which suggests that the neuroprotective effects of acute and chronic ACPC are mediated by different mechanisms. To investigate the possibility that chronic administration of ACPC alters N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor composition, the levels of mRNAs encoding zeta and epsilon subunits were quantified by in situ hybridization histochemistry with 35S-labeled riboprobes. Chronic ACPC administered to mice (200 mg/kg for 14 days) increased the level of epsilon-1 mRNA in the hippocampus (particularly CA1 and CA2 regions) and cerebral cortex (frontal, parietal and occipital regions), without altering levels in cerebellum. In contrast, this regimen decreased epsilon-3 subunit mRNA levels in the hippocampus (especially CA1 and dentate gyrus) and frontal and occipital cortices. Decreases in epsilon-2 subunit mRNA levels in cerebral cortex (especially frontal and parietal cortices) were also observed without accompanying alterations in the cerebellum, hippocampus or dentate gyrus. The levels of zeta subunit mRNA (determined with a probe that detects all splice variants) were not altered in any brain areas examined. Based on studies in recombinant receptors, these region-specific changes in mRNAs produced by a chronic regimen of ACPC could result in NMDA receptors with reduced affinities for glycine and glutamate. It is hypothesized that such alterations in NMDA receptor subunit composition may explain the neuroprotective effects produced by chronic ACPC.
This study examined the high-affinity, selective dopamine D4 receptor antagonist, L-745,870 (3-([4-(4-chlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl]methyl)-1H-pyrrolo[2, 3-b]pyridine) in rodent behavioral models used to predict antipsychotic potential and side-effect liabilities in humans. In contrast to the classical neuroleptic, haloperidol, and the atypical neuroleptic, clozapine, L-745,870 failed to antagonize amphetamine-induced hyperactivity in mice or impair conditioned avoidance responding in the rat at doses selectively blocking D4 receptors. Furthermore, L-745,870 failed to reverse the deficit in prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle responding induced by the nonselective dopamine D2/3/4 receptor agonist apomorphine, an effect which was abolished in rats pretreated with the D2/3 receptor antagonist, raclopride (0.2 mg/kg s.c.). L-745,870 had no effect on apomorphine-induced stereotypy in the rat but did induce catalepsy in the mouse, albeit at a high dose of 100 mg/kg, which is likely to occupy dopamine D2 receptors in vivo. High doses also impaired motor performance; in rats L-745,870 significantly reduced spontaneous locomotor activity (minimum effective dose = 30 mg/kg) and in mice, L-745,870 reduced the time spent on a rotarod revolving at 15 rpm (minimum effective dose = 100 mg/kg). Altogether these results suggest that dopamine D4 receptor antagonism is not responsible for the ability of clozapine to attenuate amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and conditioned avoidance responding in rodents. Furthermore, the lack of effect of L-745,870 in these behavioral tests is consistent with the inability of the compound to alleviate psychotic symptoms in humans.
The finding that ascending cholinergic systems are severely degenerated in Alzheimer's disease has driven the search for a cholinomimetic therapy. Adverse effects observed with cholinesterase inhibitors and high-efficacy muscarinic agonists led us to design compounds with an improved profile. SB 202026 (R-(Z)-(+)-alpha-(methoxyimino)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2] octane-3-acetonitrile) displaced [3H]-oxotremorine-M from muscarinic receptors in the rat brain with high affinity (IC50 = 14 nM), a potency similar to that of oxotremorine-M itself (IC50 = 13 nM), but exhibited low affinity for cholinergic nicotinic receptors and other neuroreceptors. In studies using cloned human muscarinic receptors, SB 202026 possessed approximately equal affinity in displacing [3H]-quinuclidinyl benzilate from all muscarinic receptor subtypes. In functional models in vitro, SB 202026 caused maximal depolarization of the rat superior cervical ganglion at low concentrations (300 nM) (M1-mediated effect), while producing a lower maximal effect than the high-efficacy agonists oxotremorine-M and carbachol on M2-mediated release of ACh and M3-mediated smooth muscle contraction (guinea pig ileum), respectively. The functional selectivity and partial agonist profile seen in vitro were reflected in vivo through potent cognition-related activity (M1-induced increase in hippocampal EEG power) combined with low efficacy, compared with arecoline or oxotremorine, on induction of bradycardia (M2-mediated response), hypotension (via M3-mediated vasorelaxation) and tremor (thought to be mediated by M3 receptors). The foregoing profile of SB 202026 predicted that cognition-enhancing activity would be achieved at doses below those that initiate undesirable side effects, and this has subsequently been demonstrated in rodents, marmosets and humans.
Multiunit or single unit activity recorded simultaneously from frontal cortex (FC) and locus coeruleus (LC) under ketamine anesthesia revealed that both regions show slow oscillatory activity, together or separately. If, however, both regions are engaged in this oscillatory activity, there is a systematic relationship between their phases with peak LC firing always following FC firing by 200-400 ms. This was confirmed by cross-correlational analyses, which indicated that the two structures temporarily form a resonant system. The FC-LC resonant state is, however, loose enough to remain open to other intrinsic or extrinsic influences, keeping the measured frequencies of oscillations at each site slightly different, as demonstrated by a detailed analysis of the autocorrelograms. An injection of lidocaine at the frontal cortex site, while sharply reducing the prefrontal activity to essentially zero, leads to an increase of the LC activity and to a modification of the shape of the LC autocorrelogram, but does not change appreciably the phase relationship between the activity in the two structures during the diminishing activity in FC.

The planum temporale and pars triangularis have been found to be larger in the left hemisphere than the right in individuals with normal language skills. Brain morphology studies of individuals with developmental language disorders report reversed asymmetry or symmetry of the planum, although the bulk of this research has been completed on adults with dyslexia. Pars triangularis has not been studied in the developmental language impaired population. In this study, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used for quantitative comparisons of the planum temporale (Wernicke's area) and pars triangularis (Broca's area) in children with specific language impairment (SLI) and children with normal language skills. The subjects were 11 children with SLI and 19 age- and sex-matched controls between 5.6 and 13.0 years old. Each subject received a neurolinguistic battery of tests and a high resolution volumetric MRI scan. Major results were that (a) pars triangularis was significantly smaller in the left hemisphere of children with SLI, and (b) children with SLI were more likely to have rightward asymmetry of language structures. Furthermore, anomalous morphology in these language areas correlated with depressed language ability. These findings support the hypothesis that language impairment is a consequence of an underlying neurobiological defect in areas of the brain known to subserve language.
We previously demonstrated by site-directed mutagenesis analysis that the amino acid residues at positions 62 and 214 to 216 in the N-terminal region of mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) spike (S) protein are important for receptor-binding activity (H. Suzuki and F. Taguchi, J. Virol. 70:2632-2636, 1996). To further identify the residues responsible for the activity, we isolated the mutant viruses that were not neutralized with the soluble form of MHV receptor proteins, since such mutants were expected to have mutations in amino acids responsible for receptor-binding activity. Five soluble-receptor-resistant (srr) mutants isolated had mutations in a single amino acid at three different positions: one was at position 65 (Leu to His) (srr11) in the S1 subunit and three were at position 1114 (Leu to Phe) (srr3, srr4, and srr7) and one was at position 1163 (Cys to Phe) (srr18) in the S2 subunit. The receptor-binding activity examined by a virus overlay protein blot assay and by a coimmunoprecipitation assay showed that srr11 S protein had extremely reduced binding activity, while the srr7 and srr18 proteins had binding activity similar to that of wild-type cl-2 protein. However, when cell surface receptors were used for the binding assay, all srr mutants showed activity similar to that of the wild type or only slightly reduced activity. These results, together with our previous observations, suggest that amino acids located at positions 62 to 65 of S1, a region conserved among the MHV strains examined, are important for receptor-binding activity. We also discuss the mechanism by which srr mutants with a mutation in S2 showed high resistance to neutralization by a soluble receptor, despite their sufficient level of binding to soluble receptors.

Electrocochleography (ECoG) is an objective, electrophysiologic test useful in the clinical diagnosis of endolymphatic hydrops, or Meniere's disease. The purpose of this study was to determine if the position of the needle, using transtympanic methodology, gives a variable SP/AP (summating potential/action potential) response. SP/AP ratios were obtained during routine tympanoplasty procedures. After the tympanic membrane remnant was removed using a lateral graft technique, precise needle placement was obtained at the medial and lateral round window niches, as well as on the promontory. SP/AP ratios were obtained in these three needle positions. There was no significant difference in the SP/AP ratio responses despite the location of needle placement. The use of transtympanic electrocochleography can give very good wave form morphology and consistent results. Therefore, if elevated SP/AP ratios do occur, they are thought to be due to a pathologic process of the ear and not needle placement.
To study the origins of signal changes in clinical MRI we have previously studied isolated single neuronal cells by MR microscopy. To account for the extracellular environment of the cells, we have developed a prototype perfusion chamber for MR microimaging of perfused rat hippocampal brain slices. To demonstrate the utility of this model, brain slices were initially perfused in isotonic solutions and then subjected to osmotic perturbations via perfusate exchange with 20% hypertonic and 20% hypotonic solutions. In diffusion weighted images, signal intensity changes of +16(sigma(n-1) = 11)% (hypotonic) and -26(sigma(n-1) = 10)% (hypertonic) were observed. No significant variation in response was observed across the slice when several subregions were examined. These observations are consistent with the view that contrast changes are driven primarily by changes in the intra- and extracellular compartmentation of water. This is the first report of MR microimaging of the isolated brain slice. The technique will enable the correlation of MR microimaging measurements with microscopic changes using other modalities and techniques to provide a better understanding of signals in clinical MRI.
Numerous studies suggest that modifications in concentrations of both excitatory and inhibitory amino acids are implicated in the pathophysiology of portal-systemic encephalopathy (PSE), a neuropsychiatric disorder associated with chronic liver disease in humans. In this study, amino acid levels were measured by High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) in Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) of 10 dogs (age range: 3 mo.- 3 yr 4 mo.) exhibiting a congenital portal-systemic shunt, either intra or extra-hepatic, and 8 age-matched control dogs who showed no signs of hepatic or neurologic disorders. Dogs with congenital shunts manifested signs of encephalopathy such as disorientation, head pressing, vocalization, depression, seizures and coma. CSF from dogs with congenital shunts contained significantly increased amounts of glutamate (2 to 3-fold increase, p&lt;0.01), glutamine (6-fold increase, p&lt;0.05) and aromatic amino acids (phenylalanine, tyrosine and tryptophan) compared to CSF of control dogs. Concentrations of GABA and branched chain amino acids (valine, leucine, isoleucine) were within normal limits. Modifications of brain glutamate (an excitatory amino acid) as well as tryptophan (the precursor of serotonin) could contribute to the neurological syndrome characteristic of congenital PSE in dogs.
Previous reports based on studies in brain tissue from humans and experimental animals suggest that aromatic amino acids (AAAs) and branched-chain amino acids (BCAA's) accumulate in brain in acute liver failure. In order to assess these changes in relation to the severity of neurological impairment and to the degree of hyperammonemia, AAAs and BCAAs were measured in vivo by cerebral microdialysis in frontal cortex of rats at various stages during the development of hepatic encephalopathy due to acute liver failure resulting from portacaval anastomosis followed by hepatic artery ligation. Extracellular brain concentrations of AAAs and of valine and leucine were elevated 2 to 4-fold following hepatic devascularization and these increases were significantly correlated to arterial ammonia concentration (r= 0.71-0.84, p&lt;0.05). Extracellular concentrations of tyrosine paralleled the deterioration of neurological status in acute liver failure rats. In view of their role as precursors of monoamine neurotransmitters, ammonia-induced alterations of intracellular/extracellular brain concentration ratios for AAAs could account for altered neuronal excitability and contribute to the encephalopathy characteristic of acute liver failure.
The CRF receptors, CRFR1 and CRFR2, are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. Despite their considerable sequence similarity, CRFR1 and CRFR2 have quite different affinities for the peptide ligand rat/human CRF. Previous studies using chimeric receptors between human CRFR1 and CRFR2 have identified three potentially important regions in the second and third extracellular domains of CRF receptor for the binding of rat/human CRF. The present report further demonstrates that these same three regions also affect the binding of urocortin and sauvagine, two other members of the CRF peptide family, albeit to different extents. We also show that a fourth region in the third extracellular domain, Asp254, has been identified to be important for sauvagine but not CRF or urocortin binding. Thus, the three peptide ligands not only interact with a different set of regions on CRFR1 and CRFR2 but also differentially interact with some of the same regions. These data could, at least in part, account for the much higher affinity of CRFR2 for urocortin and sauvagine compared with rat/human CRF. We have also identified two amino acid residues, His199 in the third transmembrane domain and Met276 in the fifth transmembrane domain, that are important for binding the non-peptide high-affinity CRFR1 antagonist NBI 27914. Mutations of His199 and Met276 to the corresponding amino acids in CRFR2 each decreased the binding affinity of NBI 27914 for CRFR1 by 40- and 200-fold, respectively. This suggests that the transmembrane regions are critically important in forming the binding pocket for the nonpeptide antagonist.

Computing normative data by recruiting normal subjects is extremely difficult. However, many who are examined in a typical clinical neurophysiology lab are normal. In this study we show how to use this abundance of referred subjects to compute normative distal latency statistics from the values themselves. If all latencies are displayed on a frequency distribution, the very left side, the shorter latencies, belong to the left side of the Gaussian &quot;bell&quot; of normal subjects. By curve-fitting that side one can compute the coefficients of the latter. We started with an initial range of 2.0-3.6 ms and then recursively added data points until a &quot;goodness-of-fit&quot; criterion maximized. We computed these coefficients from 982 median motor distal latencies, showing highly significant fit (P &lt; 0.00001): mean at 3.76 ms and SD of 0.45 ms. The data analyzed in this study are only an example of the technique. The results are unique in that they were derived mathematically, without using normal subjects.

These studies examined the regulation by GABA of norepinephrine release from hypothalamus, preoptic area and frontal cortex. Using superfused brain slices from female rats, we show that 100 microM GABA enhances both basal and electrically stimulated release of 3H-norepinephrine in all three brain regions. The GABAA agonist muscimol (100 microM) significantly augments 3H-norepinephrine release, but it is somewhat less effective than GABA. The GABAB agonist baclofen has little or no effect on basal 3H-norepinephrine efflux. GABA also augments both the magnitude and duration of electrically evoked 3H-norepinephrine release in slices from all three brain regions. GABA facilitation of electrically stimulated 3H-norepinephrine release is mediated through GABAA receptors as evidenced by its blockade by 10 microM bicuculline, a GABAA antagonist, but not by 200 microM 2-OH-saclofen, a GABAB antagonist. These data show that the inhibitory amino acid neurotransmitter GABA enhances both basal and evoked release of 3H-norepinephrine in brain slices from female rats. These effects are predominantly mediated by GABAA receptors. GABA modulation of hypothalamic norepinephrine release may play a role in the regulation of gonadotropin secretion and reproductive behaviors such as lordosis.
The neurotoxic fragment corresponding to residues 25-35 of the beta-amyloid (A beta) peptide [A beta-(25-35)] has been shown to exert effects on (+)-[3H]5-methyl-10, 11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]-cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate ([3H]MK-801) binding to the cation channel of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. In the present study, we investigated whether the amidated and carboxylic acid C-terminated forms of A beta-(25-35) [A beta-(25-35-NH2) and A beta-(25-35-COOH), respectively] exert effects on other excitatory amino acid receptor and cation channel types in rat cortical membranes. Both A beta-(25-35-NH2) and A beta-(25-35-COOH) gave statistically significant dose-dependent inhibitions of [3H]glutamate and [3H]glycine binding to the agonist recognition sites of the NMDA receptor. Ten microM A beta-(25-35-NH2) and A beta-(25-35-COOH) gave 25% and 20% inhibitions of [3H]glutamate binding and 75% and 70% inhibitions of [3H]glycine binding, respectively. A beta-(25-35-NH2), but not A beta-(25-35-COOH), gave a small (ca. 17% at 10 microM) statistically significant increase of [3H]amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate ([3H]AMPA) binding. [3H]kainate binding was not significantly affected by either peptide. Similarly, neither peptide affected either the maximal level or EC50 value for calcium stimulation of [3H]nitrendipine binding. It is concluded that A beta-(25-35) shows slight affinity for the agonist recognition sites of the NMDA receptor, but not for other excitatory amino acid receptor types or for L-type voltage-dependent calcium channels.
The arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus houses a number of neurochemically different cell populations. Among these, a dense cluster of small neuropeptide-Y (NPY)-expressing neurons is located in its ventromedial subdivision and a pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC)-expressing neuron population in its ventrolateral part. Furthermore, both neuropeptide Y Y1 and Y2 receptors (Y1-Rs and Y2-Rs) are expressed in the arcuate nucleus. Here we analyse the co-expression of NPY and POMC/adrenocorticotropic hormone with the Y1-R and Y2-R in arcuate neurons using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Many, but not all, POMC neurons expressed Y1-R mRNA and protein. Conversely, several Y1-R-positive, POMC-negative neurons were found. NPY-positive nerve terminals were found in close apposition to Y1-R-like immunoreactivity localized close to the dendritic and somatic cell membranes. Y2-R mRNA was found in almost all NPY mRNA-expressing neurons, but also in a group of NPY mRNA-negative cells. These results show that the POMC neurons are targets for NPY, which is presumably present in, and released from, fibres originating in the ventromedial arcuate nucleus and which may play a role in NPY-induced feeding. Release of NPY, and possible coexisting messengers, may be controlled by presynaptic Y2-R expressed in NPY neurons. Taken together, the findings support the division of Y1-Rs and Y2-Rs into post- and presynaptic receptors, respectively.
Twenty-two patients (age range, 38 to 69 years; median, 60 years) with lymphomatous meningitis due to metastatic non-AIDS-related non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were treated. Cytologic responses were seen in 16 patients (73%) to first-line chemotherapy, 7 patients (58%) to second-line chemotherapy, and 2 patients (40%) to third-line chemotherapy. Median survival was 10 months (range, 3 to 24 months).
A 33-year-old woman presented with a 3-year history of progressive numbness in the hand, cerebellar ataxia, limb weakness, nystagmus, and dysarthria. T2-weighted MRI revealed abnormal foci of increased signal intensity mimicking demyelinating plaques in the periventricular white matter, and brain 18FDG-PET scan showed increased uptake in the pons. Biopsy from a tibial lesion showed aggregates of foamy histiocytes in the intertrabecular spaces replacing the bone marrow, characteristic of Erdheim-Chester disease. The patient was treated with craniospinal radiation. After 6 months, the clinical picture was stable and the MRI was unchanged.
We report the clinical, genetic, and neuropathologic findings in a patient with rapidly progressive familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We detected a point mutation at codon 48 of the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase gene (SOD1) leading to a substitution of histidine by glutamine in the copper-binding domain. The histopathologic features are consistent with those described in rapidly progressive sporadic ALS and do not support claims that sporadic and familial disease are different pathologic entities. Neurofilamentous accumulations, hyaline, and ubiquitinated inclusions were present in the motor cortex, brainstem, and anterior horn cells, but there was no evidence of abnormal SOD1 immunoreactivity. This confirms that the cytoskeletal pathology specific to ALS is secondary to an unknown biochemical disturbance caused by mutant SOD1 molecules and not its toxic accumulation.
The effects of the acute administration of clozapine on parkinsonian mixed tremor (i.e., resting and postural tremors) were evaluated to establish clozapine's predictive value for long-term response and to determine if there is a difference in the pharmacologic responses of the two tremors. We also investigated the correlation between reduction of tremor and induction of sedation after acute and chronic administration of clozapine. Clozapine (12.5 mg) or placebo were administered po in a double-blind manner to 17 PD patients with mixed L-dopa-resistant tremors. Two patients did not reach 50% improvement and were considered nonresponders. The remaining 15 patients reported moderate to marked reduction of tremor. Responsive patients in the acute test moved on to a long-term, open clozapine add-on study receiving an average daily dose +/- SD of 45 +/- 9.6 mg for a period of 15.5 +/- 8.3 months. A significant reduction of both resting (p &lt; 0.05) and postural (p &lt; 0.05) tremors was observed under clozapine from the first week of treatment through the entire period of the study. There was no statistically significantly difference between the degree of improvement for resting and postural tremors after either single or chronic clozapine administration. Sedation was the only side effect reported after clozapine; however, the time courses of sedation and tremor reduction did not coincide in the acute or in the chronic experimental paradigm, where it decreased considerably in a few weeks in all patients. During long-term clozapine treatment, neither systemic side effects nor worsening of motor disability scores were noted. Thus we wish to propose an acute test or a therapeutic attempt, or both, with clozapine before defining a case of mixed parkinsonian tremor as resistant tremor and therefore resorting to a neurosurgical approach.
Despite extensive research, much controversy remains regarding the locus of expression of long-term potentiation (LTP) in area CA1 of the hippocampus, specifically, whether LTP is accompanied by an increase in the probability of release (p(r)) of synaptic vesicles. We have developed a novel method for assaying p(r), which utilizes the synaptic refractory period--a brief 5-6 ms period following release during which the synapse is incapable of transmission (Stevens and Wang, 1995). We show that this assay is sensitive to a battery of manipulations that affect p(r) but find no change following either NMDA receptor-dependent LTP or long-term depression (LTD).

A midline dorsal column (DC) lesion has been shown to be an effective surgical treatment for the relief of pelvic visceral pain in patients. The aim of this study was to examine the effectiveness of a DC lesion for the relief of pancreatitis pain in awake rats. Homecage activity was measured in rats with pancreatitis or sham surgery. Pancreatitis was induced by infusion of glycodeoxycholic acid (10 mM) into the pancreas and intraperitoneal injection of caerulian (72 microg). Homecage activity was also measured in rats with pancreatitis after either a DC lesion of the C1 level of the spinal cord or a sham DC lesion. A significant reduction in rearing behavior was observed in rats with pancreatitis when compared to sham animals. DC lesions reversed this reduction in rearing activity. This study suggests that the DCs are involved in transmitting nociceptive signals from the pancreas to the brain.
Monoclonal antibody MN423 stains all hallmarks of tau neurofibrillary pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD), without reacting with full-length tau. It recognizes tau molecules which are cleaved at Glu-391, suggesting that tau is endogenously truncated in AD brains. We investigated whether truncation of tau takes place in pre-tangle neurones. Our results showed that tau truncation occurs inside AD neurones in the absence of other signs of AD neurofibrillary pathology. Using in situ end labelling (ISEL) of DNA we found evidence for DNA fragmentation in a significant subpopulation of MN423-positive neurones. Our results therefore suggest that tau truncation is an early intracellular event preceding cell death in AD.
We tested the hypothesis that activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) might contribute to the depression of excitatory postsynaptic potentials during hypoxia. The experiments were performed on hippocampal slices taken from young (12-14 days old) Wistar rats. The depression induced by hypoxia (14 min) was not modified in the presence of either the non-selective mGluR antagonist (which blocks mainly group I and II mGluR), MCPG (500 microM) or the selective group III mGluR antagonist, MPPG (500 microM). However, in experiments performed in the presence of the selective adenosine A1 receptor antagonist, DPCPX (50 nM), part of the hypoxia-induced depression could be prevented by MPPG (500 microM). Activation of group III mGluR may contribute to the hypoxia-induced depression, but this contribution is only revealed when adenosine A1 receptors are blocked.
The effects of trimethyltin on the hippocampus were investigated in terms of changes in histology, depth electroencephalography, learning acquisition and memory retention, choline acetyltransferase and neuropeptides, and seizure-induced c-fos messenger RNA expression. The results were as follows. (1) Morphologically, trimethyltin produced a progressive loss of hippocampal CA3 and CA4 pyramidal cells, starting from four days after peroral treatment with trimethyltin hydroxide (9 mg/kg), as described previously. (2) Neurophysiologically, the increased seizure susceptibility to pentylenetetrazol treatment reached a maximum at four days post-trimethyltin and then declined after five days post-trimethyltin. The maximal seizure susceptibility at four days post-trimethyltin was confirmed by the immediate and long-lasting appearance of spike discharge in the hippocampus. However, this was not verified by the expression of c-fos messenger RNA in the hippocampus, which was comparable between trimethyltin-treated and control rats. (3) Behaviorally, the time-courses of aggression and learning impairment were similar to that of the seizure susceptibility. (4) Neurochemically, trimethyltin treatment caused changes of neurochemical markers, which were manifested by the elevation of neuropeptide Y content in the entorhinal cortex, and of choline acetyltransferase in the hippocampal CA3 subfield. Trimethyltin may offer potential as a tool for investigations on the relationship between neuronal death in the hippocampus and the development of seizure susceptibility and learning impairment. Alterations in glucocorticoids, glutamate and neuropeptides may all contribute to the manifestation of the trimethyltin syndrome.
The present study was designed to characterize the spread of excitation within the frontal plane of the cat cerebellar cortex following different types of stimuli. In particular, experiments were performed to determine whether the spread of excitation evoked by mossy fibre inputs proceeds primarily along the parallel fibres (&quot;beam-like&quot; spread) or whether these inputs activate non-propagated foci (&quot;patches&quot;) in the cerebellar cortex. Field potentials were recorded within a frontal plane as a medial to lateral array at different depths in parallel tracks. The recordings were made following electrical stimulation of different forelimb nerves and functionally related areas of the sensorimotor cortex as well as during passive paw movements. The resulting spatial grid of responses provides discrete spatio-temporal information reflecting the activation of specific cerebellar afferents and the neuronal interactions they evoke. The method employed demonstrates the spatial distribution of the temporal sequence of excitability changes throughout all the cerebellar cortical layers. In general, the characteristics of the responses in the intermediate cerebellar cortex depended on the source of the signals. Activity patterns evoked by peripheral nerve stimulation showed more clustered foci compared with those following electrical stimulation of functionally related areas of the sensorimotor cortex. The centrally evoked profiles were generally more homogeneous. The largest number of foci were observed following passive movements around the wrist joint. The spread of excitation in the vertical direction was evaluated by the spatial shift of the line of reversal of the N3/P2-potential (zero-isopotential line). Lines of reversal for peripherally-evoked activity patterns were approximately 90 microns closer to the molecular layer than those evoked by central stimulation in animals in which recordings have been performed in lobule Vc. The opposite was found for recordings in lobule Vb, where potential reversals following peripheral stimulation were located 40 microns deeper than those evoked following central stimulation. Cortical inputs resulted in a more proximal activation of lobule Vc Purkinje cell dendrites than in lobule Vb. This type of input processing thus seems to be lobule dependent. A beam-like spread of excitation could not be demonstrated. For both climbing fibre and mossy fibre afferent systems multiple foci were found in the frontal plane. The foci due to mossy fibre activation arose from the granular layer and expanded vertically to the molecular layer. For the climbing fibre system the foci were restricted to the molecular layer, where they merged to form a superficial band of activation. Although the data presented in this paper favour a focal distribution of activity, they do not exclude beam-like propagation along the parallel fibres, because of the difficulty of detecting this pattern in response to the stimuli. The &quot;beam&quot;- and &quot;patch&quot;-like hypotheses need not be mutually exclusive. Each could contribute to a specific stage of the temporal-spatial processing in the cerebellar cortex in a functional and task-specific manner.
The prenatal and postnatal expression of calretinin was studied in hippocampus of the rat using immunohistochemical procedures. Calretinin was detected as early as embryonic day 15 in the primordial hippocampus where calretinin-containing neurons and fibres were localized to the primitive plexiform layer. Upon emergence of the hippocampal plate (the prospective stratum pyramidale), large numbers of immunopositive multipolar cells were observed in the marginal zone. Fewer cells with fusiform cell bodies were observed bordering the hippocampal plate and subplate. During the perinatal period (embryonic day 20 to postnatal day 0), large numbers of immunoreactive pyramidal-like neurons were observed at the margin of the hippocampal plate with the subplate. At this same time, many calretinin-containing neurons with irregularly shaped dendrites were observed in stratum radiatum. Soon after birth (postnatal day 3), the calretinin immunoreactivity of both these later cell types rapidly declined and a new population of calretinin-immunopositive cells emerged, the Cajal-Retzius cells of stratum lacunosum-moleculare and the dentate gyrus. The Cajal-Retzius cells rapidly matured but disappeared by the second postnatal week. During the second postnatal week, calretinin interneurons of the adult hippocampal formation began to appear. Their immunoreactivity increased by postnatal day 15, when the number of calretinin-immunopositive interneurons in area CA1 and stratum radiatum of CA3 exceeded that of the adult. At this time, the soma and proximal dendrites of many calretinin interneurons were found to contact each other. The frequency of such cellular appositions decreased in adulthood. The results presented here show that calretinin immunohistochemistry can be very useful in recording the development of subpopulations of hippocampal neurons that are present during distinct embryonic and postnatal periods. Although some neuronal types may exist only briefly during hippocampal development, others appear to express calretinin transiently during restricted phases of neuronal differentiation. Surprisingly, this includes some hippocampal pyramidal cells. However, even as the adult pattern of immunostaining emerges in week 2, morphological refinement of interneurons continues to take place, which eventually leads to the population of calretinin-containing interneurons of the mature hippocampus.
The cellular distribution of calpain activation and glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) subunits of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors and their alterations following kainic acid-induced seizure were evaluated during postnatal development using antibodies specific for spectrin breakdown product and the C-terminus of GluR1 subunits. In the first postnatal week, most brain regions exhibited high levels of calpain activity that progressively decreased during the following weeks. The highest levels of spectrin breakdown product immunoreactivity were observed in the somata and proximal dendrites of hippocampal pyramidal cells, non-pyramidal neurons in stratum oriens, and cortical neurons. In general, during the first two postnatal weeks, kainic acid treatment induced a decrease in spectrin breakdown product immunoreactivity in neuronal cell bodies and an increase in dendritic fields. Obvious elevation in spectrin breakdown product immunoreactivity in selective non-pyramidal cells in stratum oriens started at postnatal day 14, and was further evidenced by postnatal day 21. Likewise, massive calpain activation in subpopulations of neurons in some thalamic nuclei, amygdala, and pyriform cortex was observed after the third postnatal week. GluR1 subunits were highly expressed throughout the forebrain in the first postnatal week, further increased during the second postnatal week, decreased thereafter, and reached adult levels after postnatal day 21. In cortex, intense GluR1 immunostaining was found in the somata and proximal processes of pyramidal and non-pyramidal neurons, with the non-pyramidal neurons in layers IV through VI exhibiting the densest immunolabelling. In the first two postnatal weeks, the somata of hippocampal pyramidal neurons exhibited intense GluR1 immunostaining that became more dendritic in the subsequent developmental period. While hilar cells exhibited a similar developmental pattern as CA regions, the molecular layer of dentate gyrus exhibited weak immunoreactivity from postnatal day 7 to postnatal day 14. The early increase in GluR1 immunoreactivity in hippocampal pyramidal layer following kainic acid treatment occurred throughout the developmental period, while the later decrease in CA regions, amygdala, and pyriform cortex was observed only in postnatal day 21 animals. The combined immunocytochemical studies of spectrin breakdown product localization and GluR1 expression indicate that calpain activation might play an important role in synaptic formation, developmental regulation of synaptic plasticity, and neuronal vulnerability to excitotoxicity during postnatal development. Moreover, calpain-mediated modulation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors might underlie these processes.
Persistent hyperexcitability follows synchronized bursting induced in the CA3 region of hippocampal slices by perfusion with high concentrations (2000 IU/ml) of the GABAA antagonist, penicillin. This hyperexcitable state is characterized by: i) slow recovery from bursting following penicillin washout; ii) persistent &quot;post-burst&quot; field potential oscillations and iii) increased probability of spontaneous bursting with ordinarily sub-convulsant doses of GABAA antagonists. An N-methyl-D-aspartate-independent type of long-term potentiation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA)/kainate excitatory postsynaptic potentials occurred following bursting. However, similar increases in excitatory postsynaptic potential magnitude also occurred after a subconvulsant dose of penicillin (500 IU/ml) which did not produce the other features of persistent hyperexcitability. Furthermore, long-term potentiation either increased or remained stable after bursting stopped, whereas, post-burst oscillations gradually diminished with time. Low doses of the AMPA/kainate antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, which restored the potentiated excitatory postsynaptic potentials to control levels, reduced but did not eliminate the post-burst oscillation. Tetanus-induced long-term potentiation did not reproduce the hyperexcitable state seen after bursting. These findings indicate that the epileptiform bursting caused by blocking GABAA-mediated inhibition induces long-term potentiation which is partially responsible for persistent burst-induced hyperexcitability but is not sufficient to entirely explain it. The hippocampus which is critical for normal memory is also frequently the generator of intractable epileptic seizures. Seizure-like discharges in the hippocampus induced long-lasting increases in synaptic efficacy similar to those thought to underlie normal memory. This form of long-term potentiation contributed to the network oscillations characteristics of the hyperexcitable state persisting after epileptiform activity but was not sufficient to entirely explain them. Epileptic seizures may engage normal memory mechanisms which increase neuronal excitability and predispose the hippocampal network to further seizures. This may, in part, account for the propensity for hippocampal seizure foci to become intractable.
The present study determined the effects of intraventricularly administered glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor on the behavioral and neurochemical sequelae of unilateral excitotoxic lesions of the striatum. Distinct asymmetrical rotational behavior in response to peripheral administration of amphetamine (5 mg/kg) was noted one and two weeks following injections of quinolinic acid (200 nmol) into two sites in the left striatum. In rats given a single intraventricular injection of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (10-1000 micrograms) 30 min before the toxin, amphetamine-induced rotational behavior was significantly attenuated. Analysis of Nissl-stained coronal sections showed marked neuronal loss in the striatum ipsilateral to the quinolinic acid injections, which was at least partially prevented by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor D1 and D2 dopamine binding sites in the striatum, the majority of which are localized to subpopulations of GABAergic neurons, were decreased to a similar extent by quinolinic acid. Moreover, the reduction was attenuated by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor treatment to a similar degree, suggesting that the two subpopulations of GABAergic striatal output neurons are equally vulnerable to excitotoxic damage. Concomitant changes in neurotransmitter function as a result of the lesion were also observed: [3H]GABA uptake into striatal target tissues (globus pallidus and substantia nigra) was considerably reduced in the lesioned compared to the contralateral unlesioned tissues, as were [3H]choline and [3H]dopamine uptake into striatal synaptosomes. Similarly, striatal choline acetyltransferase activity was decreased by the lesion. Decrements in neuropeptide levels of similar magnitude were evident ipsilateral to the lesion; substance P, met-enkephalin and dynorphin A contents in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra were significantly reduced. Striatal somatostatin and neuropeptide Y levels were not altered. All of the neurochemical deficits induced by striatal quinolinic acid lesions were attenuated by intraventricular delivery of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor. Continuous intraventricular infusion of this trophic factor (10 micrograms/day) over a two-week period did not afford notable improvement compared to the single injection of 10 micrograms. In contrast, continuous infusion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (10 micrograms/day) directly into the striatum did not affect any of the neurochemical parameters studied. However, neurotrophin-3 (10 micrograms/day) delivery into the striatum significantly increased [3H]GABA uptake, but only modestly affected [3H]choline uptake. The results indicate that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor counteracts neuronal damage induced by a striatal excitotoxic insult and support its potential use as a treatment for central nervous system disorders that may be a consequence of excitotoxic processes, such as Huntington's disease.
This study investigated amphetamine-induced striatal dopamine release after intraventricular unilateral fetal mesencephalic grafts in otherwise intact rats. Dopamine was monitored in vivo by differential pulse voltammetry. In grafted animals, amphetamine-induced dopamine release was decreased compared to sham-grafted, age-matched controls. This decrease was observed in the grafted as well as in the contralateral striatum five months after intraventricular grafting. There was no measurable effect of the graft on the amphetamine-induced rotational behaviour. Our results exceed former observations reporting decreased amphetamine-induced dopamine release in the contralateral striatum of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned and unilaterally-grafted rats which had been attributed to a reduction of dopamine transporters. Furthermore, it was shown that concerning this effect ventral mesencephalic grafts are independent of a previous 6-hydroxydopamine lesion.
Sucrose gap recordings from the dorsal roots of isolated, hemisected frog spinal cords were used to determine the effects of metabotropic L-glutamate receptor activation on primary afferent terminals by (+/-)-1-amino-trans-1,3-cyclopentane-dicarboxylic acid (t-ACPD). Dorsal root potentials evoked by ventral root volleys were significantly reduced by t-ACPD (30 microM), as were GABA- and muscimol-induced afferent terminal depolarizations. The effects of t-ACPD on GABA-depolarizations depended upon activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors, i.e. the effects were blocked by the group I/II antagonist (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine, but not by the group II antagonist alpha-methyl-(2S,3S,4S)-alpha-(carboxycyclopropyl)-glycine or the group III antagonist alpha-methyl-(S)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate and were mimicked by the group I agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine but were not mimicked by the group III agonist (S)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate. Increasing the intracellular concentration of 3'-5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate with 8-bromo-cAMP, forskolin, and 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine significantly reduced GABA depolarizations, but the protein kinase inhibitors Rp-adenosine 3,5-cyclic monophosphothioate triethylamine and N-[2-(p-bromocinnamylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide did not alter t-ACPD's depression of GABA depolarizations. The actions of t-ACPD on GABA depolarizations were neither mimicked nor blocked by phorbol-12-myristate 13-acetate, thapsigargin, staurosporine, or arachidonic acid, presumptive indications that the effects of t-ACPD did not involve phosphoinositide hydrolysis, the release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores, or the formation of arachidonate. t-ACPD's effects on GABA depolarizations were blocked by 20 mM Mg2+, the broad spectrum L-glutamate antagonist kynurenate, and the selective N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, but not by the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Low concentrations of N-methyl-D-aspartate (10 microM) mimicked the effect of t-ACPD on GABA responses. These results suggest that t-ACPD's depression of GABA depolarizations involves an indirect, three-stage mechanism that includes activation of Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors on interneurons and/or on afferent terminals, the release of L-glutamate from the latter structures, and the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors on primary afferent terminals. The depression of GABA depolarizations caused by the release of L-glutamate from afferent terminal and/or interneurons leads to a block of presynaptic inhibition (produced in the frog spinal cord by GABA) resulting in a positive feed-forward amplification of reflex transmission.
Immunohistochemical detection of the protein, Fos, was used to identify neurons in the brain activated following a volume load. The plasma expanders, Haemaccel and 6% dextran, were infused intravenously in conscious rabbits for 60 min. Compared to control animals both stimuli significantly increased right atrial pressure but had no effect on blood pressure. Heart rate was significantly elevated with dextran only. Volume expansion with Haemaccel also reduced renal sympathetic nerve activity by about 50% from the pre-infusion resting level. Ninety minutes after the start of the infusion, the rabbits were perfusion fixed and the distribution of Fos-positive cell nuclei was examined. Following Haemaccel infusion there were significant increases in the number of Fos-positive cell nuclei in the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, parvocellular paraventricular nucleus and in specific rostrocaudal levels of the nucleus tractus solitarius and ventrolateral medulla. Following dextran similar effects were observed in the medulla but Fos-positive cell nuclei were not significantly elevated above controls in the forebrain. After Haemaccel or dextran areas such as the supraoptic nucleus, the magnocellular paraventricular nucleus, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, diagonal band of Broca and amygdala either did not produce Fos or were not consistently different from the control group. The results suggest that specific brain regions, that are known to be important in cardiovascular control, are activated by a volume load. These areas are likely to play an important role in the reflex responses initiated by that particular stimulus.
In vivo extracellular single-unit recording techniques revealed that chronic cold stress significantly alters both the basal and the evoked electrophysiological activity of noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus of the anaesthetized rat. Following 17-21 days of chronic cold exposure (5 degrees C), the single-unit activity of histologically-identified locus coeruleus neurons in chloral hydrate-anaesthetized rats was recorded and analysed in terms of their basal firing rate and pattern of spike activity, as well as their response to footshock stimulation. There was no significant difference in the incidence of spontaneously active cells/electrode track between cold-stressed rats and control rats. However, the basal spike activity of locus coeruleus cells recorded from cold-stressed rats differed significantly from that of control rats along two dimensions: i) they displayed significantly higher basal firing rates (mean = 1.88 Hz vs 1.20 Hz, respectively); and ii) they frequently exhibited spontaneous burst-firing activity that was not observed in control rats (observed in 15/17 cold-stressed rats vs 1/26 control rats). The evoked spike activity of locus coeruleus cells in cold-stressed rats also differed significantly from that of control rats along two dimensions: i) they were more likely to respond to footshock stimulation (mean = 90.3% vs 74.4%, respectively); and ii) these responses were more likely to consist of multispike bursts of action potentials (mean = 8 bursts/50 stimulations vs 1 burst/50 stimulations, respectively). These results indicate that alterations in the electrophysiological activity of noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons may contribute to the phenomenon of stress-induced sensitization of norepinephrine release that is thought to underlie some of the neuropathological changes that accompany long-term stress.
The mechanisms governing the assembly of alpha-, beta- and gamma-subunits to form GABAA-receptors are poorly understood. Here, we report that the alpha-subunit is essential for receptor assembly. In mice homozygous for a deletion on chromosome 7 spanning the alpha 5- and gamma 3-subunit genes, zolpidem-insensitive benzodiazepine binding sites, corresponding to GABAA-receptors containing the alpha 5-subunit, were absent in the hippocampus. This loss of alpha 5-GABAA-receptor binding was also apparent as a 21% decrease in the total number of benzodiazepine binding sites in the hippocampus. In addition, immunoreactivity for the beta 2,3- and gamma 2-subunit was decreased exclusively in neurons which normally express the alpha 5-subunit, such as olfactory bulb granule cells and hippocampal pyramidal cells. In other brain regions of the mutants, the beta 2,3- and gamma 2-subunit staining was unaffected. Controls included two lines of mice homozygous for a shorter chromosomal deletion, that either included or excluded the gamma 3-subunit gene. These two lines were indistinguishable with regard to numbers of benzodiazepine binding sites and levels alpha 5-, beta 2,3- and gamma 2-subunit immunoreactivity, indicating that the lack of gamma 3-subunit gene did not contribute to the observed deficit in receptor formation. These results demonstrate that the absence of the alpha 5-subunit gene prevents the formation of the entire respective receptor complex in adult mouse brain. Thus, the alpha-subunit, unlike the gamma 2-subunit, might play a major role in the assembly or targeting of GABAA-receptor complexes.
Glutamate transport is a primary mechanism for the synaptic inactivation of glutamate. Excitatory amino acid transporter 4 (EAAT4) is a novel glutamate transporter with properties of a ligand-gated chloride channel that was recently cloned from human brain. The present study was an investigation of the protein expression and cellular localization of EAAT4 in human and rat brain, and comparison with another neuronal glutamate transporter, EAAT3 (rabbit excitatory amino acid carrier 1; EAAC1). Regional immunoblot analysis of EAAT4, using a monospecific oligopeptide (carboxy-terminal) affinity-purified polyclonal antibody, revealed that the protein was restricted to the central nervous system. The EAAT4 protein was largely expressed in cerebellum, with a much lower expression in hippocampus, neocortex, striatum, brain stem and thalamus. Immunohistochemical studies showed intense EAAT4 immunoreactivity in the human and rat cerebellar Purkinje cells with a somatodendritic localization. Other brain regions including neocortex, hippocampus, striatum showed faint neuropil staining of EAAT4. Immunogold localization identified EAAT4 protein at plasma membranes of Purkinje cell dendrites and spines. In the hippocampus and neocortex, EAAT4 immunoreactivity was found mainly at small calibre dendrites. Rarely, EAAT4 immunoreactivity was found in astrocytic cell processes of forebrain. In the cerebellum, EAAT4 localization partly overlapped with the neuronal localization of EAAT3 (EAAC1). Immunoreactivity for EAAT3 was enriched in the somatodendritic compartment of the Purkinje cells like EAAT4, but EAAT3 was also found in Purkinje cell axons and in boutons in deep cerebellar nuclei, as well as in granular cells and stellate cells. Our results indicate that EAAT4 protein is largely localized to cerebellar cortex and lower levels of EAAT4 protein are present in forebrain by immunoblot and immunohistochemistry. Both neuronal glutamate transporter EAAT3 (EAAC1) and EAAT4 are located at somatodendritic compartment of Purkinje cells, and probably contribute to glutamate re-uptake mechanisms at Purkinje cell synapses.
We reported previously that two epidermal growth factor receptor ligands, epidermal growth factor and transforming growth factor-alpha, inhibit medial septal cholinergic cell phenotypic expression (choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase activities) in vitro indirectly via (a) soluble molecule(s) released from astrocytes [Kenigsberg R. L. et al. (1992) Neuroscience 50, 85-97; Kenigsberg R. L. and Mazzoni I. E. (1995) J. Neurosci. Res. 41, 734-744; Mazzoni I. E. and Kenigsberg R. L. (1996) Brain Res. 707, 88-99]. In the present study, we found that this response to transforming growth factor-alpha is mediated, for the most part, by alpha 2-macroglobulin, a potent protease inhibitor with a wide spectrum of biological activities. In this regard, the effects of transforming growth factor-alpha on cholinergic cells can be blocked with immunoneutralizing antibodies raised against alpha 2-macroglobulin. Furthermore, western blot analysis reveals that although alpha 2-macroglobulin is present in conditioned media from control septal cultures, it is more abundant in those treated with transforming growth factor-alpha. In addition, exogenous alpha 2-macroglobulin, both in its native and trypsin-activated forms, can mimic transforming growth factor-alpha's effects on septal cholinergic cell expression. However, while the native antiprotease can slightly but significantly decrease choline acetyltransferase activity, trypsin-activated alpha 2-macroglobulin, in the nanomolar range, induces as marked a decrease in this enzyme activity as that noted with transforming growth factor-alpha. Furthermore, trypsin-activated alpha 2-macroglobulin, like epidermal growth factor/transforming growth factor-alpha, decreases choline acetyltransferase activity by arresting its spontaneous increase that occurs with time in culture, does so in a reversible manner and is not neurotoxic. In addition, trypsin-activated alpha 2-macroglobulin, in the nanomolar range, can affect choline acetyltransferase in a dual manner, up-regulating it at low concentrations while down-regulating it at higher ones. These responses are identical in mixed neuronal-glial and pure neuronal septal cultures. Furthermore, when concentrations of trypsin-activated alpha 2-macroglobulin, which alone decrease choline acetyltransferase, are added simultaneously with nerve growth factor, they serve to potentiate the nerve growth factor-induced increase in enzymatic activity. As GABAergic cell expression is not affected by alpha 2-macroglobulin, it appears that the effects of this protease inhibitor on medial septal neuronal expression are neurotransmitter-specific. Finally, trypsin-activated but not native alpha 2-macroglobulin promotes a dose-dependent aggregation of the septal neurons. This change in morphology, however, is not related to those noted in choline acetyltransferase activity. In summary, these data suggest that the expression of alpha 2-macroglobulin in astroglia from the medial septal nucleus can be controlled by epidermal growth factor receptor ligands to impact the functioning of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are important for maintaining optimal memory performance. In order to more fully characterize the involvement of nicotinic systems in memory, the contributions of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes were investigated. This study targeted the alpha 7 and alpha 4 beta 2 nicotinic receptors in the ventral hippocampus, an area known to be important for spatial working memory. Antagonists of alpha 7 and alpha 4 beta 2 receptors were locally infused into the ventral hippocampus of rats and the effects on memory were examined with the radial-arm maze. The subtype-specific competitive antagonists infused into separate groups of rats were methyllycaconitine citrate (an alpha 7 antagonist) and dihydro-beta-erythroidine hydrobromide (an alpha 4 beta 2 antagonist). Their effects on radial-arm maze performance were contrasted with the non-specific competitive antagonist, D-tubocurarine chloride. Significant deficits in radial-arm maze choice accuracy performance were found at 78.7 micrograms/side for methyllycaconitine and at 106.9 micrograms/side for dihydro-beta-erythroidine. Increased response latency was also seen at these doses. Tubocurarine induced seizures at doses previously reported to have no effect. Wet dog shakes were seen in most rats at 0.1 microgram/side with tubocurarine, 26.3 micrograms/side with methyllycaconitine and 106.9 micrograms/side with dihydro-beta-erythroidine. This study suggests that both alpha 7 and alpha 4 beta 2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes are involved in working memory formation and that the hippocampus is a critical site for nicotinic cholinergic involvement in memory function, though the high doses of antagonists needed to produce the memory impairment may have had less than completely specific effects.
Massive striatal dopamine release during cerebral ischaemia has been implicated in the resulting neuronal damage. Sodium influx is an early event in the biochemical cascade during ischaemia and blockade of sodium channels may increase resistance to ischaemia by reducing energy demand involved in compensation for sodium and potassium fluxes. In this study, we have determined the effects of opening and blockade of voltage-gated sodium channels on hypoxia/hypoglycaemia-induced dopamine release. Slices of rat caudate nucleus were maintained in a slice chamber superfused by an oxygenated artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing 4 mM glucose. Ischaemia (hypoxia/hypoglycaemia) was mimicked by a switch to a deoxygenated artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing 2 mM glucose and dopamine release was measured using fast cyclic voltammetry. In drug-free (control) slices, there was a 2-3 min delay after the onset of hypoxia/hypoglycaemia followed by a rapid dopamine release event which was associated with anoxic depolarization. In slices treated with the Na+ channel opener, veratridine (1 microM), the time to onset of dopamine release was shortened (101 +/- 20 s, compared with 171 +/- 8 s in controls, P &lt; 0.05). Conversely, phenytoin (100 microM), lignocaine (200 microM) and the highly selective sodium channel blocker, tetrodotoxin (1 microM) markedly delayed and slowed dopamine release vs paired controls. In the majority of cases, dopamine release was biphasic after sodium channel blockade: a slow phase preceded a more rapid dopamine release event. The latter was associated with anoxic depolarization. Neither the fast nor the slow release events were affected by pretreatment with the selective dopamine uptake blocker GBR 12935 (0.2 microM), suggesting that uptake carrier reversal did not contribute to these events. In conclusion, sodium channel antagonism delays and slows hypoxia/hypoglycaemia-induced dopamine release in vitro. Furthermore, sodium channel blockade delays anoxic depolarization and its associated neurotransmitter release, revealing an earlier dopamine release event that does not result from reversal of the uptake carrier.
We induced ischemic tolerance unilaterally in gerbil hippocampus using the contralateral hippocampus as control. Ischemia for 2 min of right common carotid occlusion was reversible but sufficient to cause heat-shock protein 70 production in CA1 neurons. This pretreatment given four days prior to occlusion of both common carotids for 5 min, but not at longer preceding intervals, induced tolerance in right CA1 neurons. Neuroprotection was still evident two months after the 5 min occlusion. Adenosine triphosphate content and immunoreactive microtubule associate protein 2 in the hippocampus showed that the 5 min ischemic insult was essentially equal in both hemispheres. Repetitive pretreatments at two day intervals caused almost complete protection of CA1 neurons against subsequent 5 min ischemia, while a single pretreatment showed 80% protection. However, the increase in heat-shock protein 70 with repeated pretreatments was not significantly more than with one pretreatment. We concluded that true ischemic tolerance was induced by ischemic stress itself, was long-lasting, was not due to mitigation of subsequent ischemia, and was augmented by repetition without further increase of heat-shock protein 70.
An important reaction in rodent models of persistent pain is for the animal to turn and bite/lick the source of discomfort (autotomy). Comparatively little is known about the supraspinal pathways which mediate this reaction. Since autotomy requires co-ordinated control of the head and mouth, it is possible that basal ganglia output via the superior colliculus may be involved; previously this projection has been implicated in the control of orienting and oral behaviour. The purpose of the present study was therefore, to test whether the striato-nigro-tectal projection plays a significant role in oral responses elicited by subcutaneous injections of formalin. Behavioural output from this system is normally associated with the release of collicular projection neurons from tonic inhibitory input from substantia nigra pars reticulata. Therefore, in the present study normal disinhibitory signals from the basal ganglia were blocked by injecting the GABA agonist muscimol into different regions of the rat superior colliculus. c-Fos immunohistochemistry was used routinely to provide regional estimates of the suppressive effects of muscimol on neuronal activity. Biting and licking directed to the site of a subcutaneous injection of formalin (50 microliters of 4%) into the hind-paw were suppressed in a dose-related manner by bilateral microinjections of muscimol into the lateral superior colliculus (10-50 ng; 0.5 microliter/side); injections into the medial superior colliculus had little effect. Bilateral injections of muscimol 20 ng into lateral colliculus caused formalin-treated animals to re-direct their attention and activity from lower to upper regions of space. Muscimol injected unilaterally into lateral superior colliculus elicited ipsilateral turning irrespective of which hind-paw was injected with formalin. Oral behaviour was blocked when the muscimol and formalin injections were contralaterally opposed; this was also true for formalin injections into the front foot. Interestingly, when formalin was injected into the perioral region, injections of muscimol into the lateral superior colliculus had no effect on the ability of animals to make appropriate contralaterally directed head and body movements to facilitate localization of the injected area with either front- or hind-paw. These findings suggest that basal ganglia output via the lateral superior colliculus is critical for responses to noxious stimuli which entail the mouth moving to and acting on the foot, but not when the foot is the active agent applied to the mouth. The data also suggest that pain produces a spatially non-specific facilitation of units throughout collicular maps, which can be converted into a spatially inappropriate signal by locally suppressing parts of the map with the muscimol.
We carried out experiments to investigate the mechanisms of serotonin-induced axonal excitability changes using isolated dorsal columns from young (seven to 11-day-old) Long-Evan's hooded rats. Conducting action potentials were activated by submaximal (50%) and supramaximal constant current electrical stimuli and recorded with glass micropipette electrodes. In experiment 1, to study Ca(2+)-mediated mechanisms, we superfused the preparations with Ringer solutions containing varying Ca2+ concentrations. Following superfusion with Ca(2+)-free Ringer solution for 4 h, we tested initial responses to serotonin agonists. Studies then were repeated after preparations had been washed for 1 h with Ringer solution containing 1.5 mM Ca2+ and 1.5 mM Mg2+. After 4 h superfusion of Ca(2+)-free Ringer solution, quipazine (a serotonin2A agonist, 100 microM) did not induce significant axonal excitability changes (amplitude change of 1.4 +/- 1.3%, percentage of predrug control level, +/-S.D., n = 6). A 100 microM concentration of 8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin (a serotonin1A agonist) reduced response amplitudes by 36.3 +/- 4.2% (+/-S.D., P &lt; 0.0005, n = 7) and prolonged latencies by 22.3 +/- 4.3% (+/-S.D., P &lt; 0.0005, n = 7). Application of serotonin (100 microM) decreased amplitudes by 6.6 +/- 5.0% (+/-S.D., P &lt; 0.05, n = 6). Extracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]e) was measured at various depths in the dorsal column with ion-selective microelectrodes. Four hours' superfusion with Ca(2+)-free Ringer solution reduced [Ca2+]e to less than 0.1 mM in dorsal columns. In 1.5 mM Ca2+ Ringer solution, quipazine increased the amplitudes by 38.3 +/- 5.8% (P &lt; 0.0005, n = 6). Likewise, serotonin increased the amplitudes by 13.8 +/- 4.9% (P &lt; 0.005, n = 6). In contrast however, 8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin still reduced amplitudes by 35.0 +/- 6.4% (P &lt; 0.0005, n = 7) and prolonged latencies by 24.1 +/- 4.5% (P &lt; 0.0005, n = 7). In experiment 2, we investigated calcium-dependent and cAMP-mediated protein kinase signalling pathways to evaluate their role as intracellular messengers for serotonin2A receptor activation. Two protein kinase inhibitors, 50 microM H7 (an inhibitor of protein kinase C and c-AMP dependent protein kinase) and 100 microM D-sphingosine (an inhibitor of protein kinase A and C) effectively eliminated the excitatory effects of the serotonin2A agonist. 100 microM cadmium (a Ca2+ channel blocker) also blocked the effects of quipazine. Neither these protein kinase inhibitors nor cadmium alone affected action potential amplitudes. These results suggest that replacing Ca2+ with Mg2+ blocks the excitatory effects of quipazine but does not prevent the inhibitory effects of 8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin, and calcium-mediated protein kinase mechanisms modulate axonal excitability changes induced by serotonin and its agonist.
In the present study we have demonstrated that the same aversive stimulus induces different patterns of expression of transcription factors in the hippocampus and septum of male and female rats. We have investigated by immunohistochemistry the effects of a persistent painful stimulus and restraint stress on c-Fos expression in the hippocampus and septum of male and female rats. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of three experimental groups: (i) untreated controls, (ii) subcutaneous injection with formalin (50 microliters, 10%) in the right hindpaw, or (iii) immobilization in an adjustable restrainer. Formalin-treated and restrained animals were killed 90 min after the beginning of treatment. In both male and female rats, unilateral injection of formalin induced bilateral c-Fos expression in the hippocampus, but the number of labeled neurons was two-fold higher in females than in males. Restraint stress was not effective in c-Fos induction in the hippocampus of both sexes. In the septum, both treatments increased c-Fos, but this increase tended to be greater in males than females. Previous experiments have consistently shown that male and female rats react differently to aversive stimulation. The present findings suggest that hormonal and behavioral differences between the sexes are accompanied by genetic modifications in those brain areas involved in cognition and emotion.
The entorhinal cortex funnels sensory information from the entire cortical mantle into the hippocampal formation via the perforant path. A major component of this pathway originates from the stellate cells in layer II and terminates on the dentate granule cells to activate the hippocampal trisynaptic circuit. In addition, there is also a significant, albeit less characterized, component of the perforant path that originates in entorhinal layer III pyramidal cells and terminates directly in area CA1. As a step in understanding the functional role of this monosynaptic component of the perforant path, we undertook the electrophysiological characterization of entorhinal layer III neurons in an in vitro rat brain slice preparation using intracellular recording techniques with sharp micropipettes and under current-clamp conditions. Cells were also intracellularly injected with biocytin to assess their pyramidal cell morphology. Layer III pyramidal cells did not display either the rhythmic subthreshold membrane potential oscillations nor spike-cluster discharge that characterizes the spiny stellate cells from layer II. In contrast, layer III pyramidal cells displayed a robust tendency towards spontaneous activity in the form of regular tonic discharge. Analysis of the voltage-current relations also demonstrated, in these neurons, a rather linear membrane voltage behaviour in the subthreshold range with the exception of pronounced inward rectification in the depolarizing direction. Depolarizing inward rectification was unaffected by Ca(2+)-conductance block with but was abolished by voltage-gated Na(+)-conductance block with tetrodotoxin, suggesting that a persistent Na(+)-conductance provides much of the inward current sustaining tonic discharge. In addition, in the presence of tetrodotoxin, an intermediate threshold (approximately -50 mV) Ca(2+)-dependent rebound potential was also observed which could constitute another pacemaker mechanism. A high-threshold Ca(2+)-conductance was also found to contribute to the action potential as judged by the decrease in spike duration towards the peak observed during Ca(2+)-conductance block. On the other hand, Ca(2+)-conductance block increase spike duration at the base and abolished the monophasic spike afterhyperpolarization. Analysis of the input-output relations revealed firing properties similar to those of regularly spiking neocortical cells. Current-pulse driven spike trains displayed moderate adaptation and were followed by a Ca(2+)-dependent slow afterhyperpolarization. In summary, the intrinsic electroresponsiveness of entorhinal layer III pyramidal cells suggest that these neurons may perform a rather high-fidelity transfer function of incoming neocortical sensory information directly to the CA1 hippocampal subfield. The pronounced excitability of layer III cells, due to both Na+ and Ca2+ conductances, may also be related to their tendency towards degeneration in epilepsy.
Synchronous neuronal activity that resembles interictal epileptiform discharges occurs in hippocampal slices if there is an imbalance of inhibitory and excitatory synaptic activity. Antagonists of the GABAA receptor and agonists of the ionotropic glutamate receptors are convulsants that produce epileptiform discharges in hippocampal slices. We evaluated the effects of activation of the metabotropic class of glutamate receptors on epileptiform activity produced by convulsants. The metabotropic glutamate agonist (+/-)-1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD, 30-100 microM) accelerated the rate of interictal epileptiform discharges produced by either bicuculline methiodide or 4-aminopyridine and had minimal effects on discharges produced by high [K+]o. The increase in rate was associated with a significant decrease in the amplitude and duration of the afterhyperpolarization that follows the paroxysmal depolarizing shift, the intracellular correlate of the interictal epileptiform discharge. A modest increase in input resistance (approximately 10%) accompanied the rate increase. beta-adrenergic or muscarinic agonists, neurotransmitters that also decrease the afterhyperpolarization, acted synergistically with ACPD (100 microM) to increase the control rate of bicuculline-induced interictal discharges by more than eight-fold. Antagonists of beta-adrenergic or muscarinic receptors reduced, but did not block, the acceleration of bicuculline-induced discharge rate produced by 30 microM ACPD. The results show that metabotropic glutamate receptors enhance the rate of interictal epileptiform discharges produced by bicuculline or 4-aminopyridine. ACPD had no effect on interictal epileptiform activity induced by high [K+]o, a finding that may indicate that in high [K+]o conditions the metabotropic receptor is activated or that the effects of high [K+]o already reduced the effect of depolarizing currents that are enhanced by ACPD. The acceleration in interictal discharge rate was associated with a reduction in the afterhyperpolarization that follows the paroxysmal depolarizing shift and this action appears to be important in determining the synchronization of neurons and the rate of interictal epileptiform discharges. Furthermore, interaction between mGluR activation and either muscarinic or beta-adrenergic activation may be important for seizure generation.
We present a new model for the generation of theta rhythm of the hippocampus. We propose that theta at CA1 involves extracellular current fluxes produced by alternating depolarizing and hyperpolarizing membrane potential fluctuations of large populations of hippocampal pyramidal cells. Pyramidal cells are, in turn, controlled by rhythmically bursting cholinergic and GABAergic cells of the medial septum/vertical limb of the diagonal band. We postulate that septal cholinergic and GABAergic rhythmically bursting cells fire in relative synchrony; their coordinated burst discharge (burst mode) drives the positive-going phase of intracellular theta and associated firing of pyramidal cells; their synchronized pauses (interburst mode) give rise to the negative-going phase of intracellular theta and an inhibition of pyramidal cells. We further demonstrate that the theta rhythm is controlled by a network of cells extending from the brainstem to the septum/hippocampus. During theta, tonically discharging cells of the nucleus reticularis pontis oralis activate neurons of the supramammillary nucleus; the supramammillary nucleus, in turn, converts this steady barrage into a rhythmical pattern of discharge which is relayed to GABAergic/ cholinergic rhythmically bursting cells of the medial septum. The septal rhythmically bursting cells modulate subsets of hippocampal interneurons and principal cells in the generation of the theta rhythm. We review evidence showing that the serotonin-containing neurons of the median raphe nucleus desynchronize the hippocampal electroencephalogram, presumably by disrupting the rhythmical discharge of septal cholinergic and GABAergic neurons. Finally, we summarize recent work indicating that the theta rhythm is critically involved in memory functions of the hippocampus and that its disruption (electroencephalographic desynchronization) may block or temporarily suspend mnemonic processes of the hippocampus.
Nociceptin, also referred to as orphanin FQ, is believed to be the endogenous ligand for the ORL1. Nociceptin, when injected intracerebroventricularly to mice, produced hyperalgesia in behavioral tests. Recent studies have demonstrated the presence of ORL1 transcript in the spinal cord, and ORL1-like immunoreactivity has been localized to nerve fibers and somata throughout the spinal cord. Here, we report the localization of nociceptin-like immunoreactivity to fiber-like elements of the superficial layers of the rat dorsal horn by immunohistochemical techniques. Whole-cell recordings from substantia gelatinosa neurons in transverse lumbar spinal cord slices of 22-26-day-old rats showed that exogenous nociceptin at low concentrations (100-300 nM) depressed excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by stimulation of dorsal rootlets without causing an appreciable change of resting membrane potentials and glutamate-evoked depolarizations. At a concentration of 1 microM, nociceptin hyperpolarized substantia gelatinosa neurons and suppressed spike discharges. The hyperpolarizing and synaptic depressant action of nociceptin was not reversed by the known opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (1 microM). Our result provides evidence that nociceptin-like peptide is concentrated in nerve fibers of the rat dorsal horn and that it may serve as an inhibitory transmitter within the substantia gelatinosa.
The neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) produces parkinsonian neurochemical and functional deficits in human and non-human primates. The utility of MPTP-induced parkinsonism in monkeys as an animal model of Parkinson's disease would be greater if it produced a persistent and stable behavioural syndrome so that the effects of novel therapeutic treatments can be accurately assessed. Further, the claim that many species including primates spontaneously recover from MPTP is a significant difference from idiopathic Parkinson's disease. This experiment focused on the long-term (six months) persistence of behavioural deficits in severely and moderately parkinsonian monkeys. The severity of the syndrome was based on a quantitative and objective measure of parkinsonism. Adult male African green (vervet) monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus) were treated with MPTP (cumulative dose 2.5 mg/kg over five days), and six were saline-control treated. MPTP-treated subjects were examined in two groups: those that were severely parkinsonian (&quot;severe&quot; group, n = 11) and those that were moderately impaired (&quot;moderate&quot; group, n = 5) the month after treatment. Summary factor scores were examined reflecting abnormal (&quot;parkinsonian&quot;) behaviour and normal &quot;healthy&quot; behaviour. Subjects that displayed severe parkinsonism the month after MPTP were found to show stable and severe parkinsonism for the time period studied. In contrast, the group of animals that initially were moderately parkinsonian did not show a stable deficit during the study. These data suggest that the initial severity of the deficit is an important predictor of outcome. None the less, stable parkinsonism can be observed in severely parkinsonian subjects despite variability in the severity of the impairment in response to MPTP treatment. Two moderately and three severely affected subjects were studied for more than six months and they appeared to show equivalent scores at six months compared with between 11 to 19 months after MPTP administration. MPTP-treatment in the vervet monkey can result in persistent long-term deficits and therefore provides an excellent phenomenological as well as neuropathological model of Parkinson's disease.
Serotonergic neurons decrease their activity during sleep, especially rapid eye movement sleep, thereby reducing their facilitatory effect on upper airway motoneurons. The magnitude of teh sleep-related loss of tone varies among upper airway muscles (e.g., pharyngeal dilator motoneurons are more suppressed than laryngeal motoneurons). We hypothesized that these differences may be related to the sensitivity of different groups of upper airway motoneurons to serotonin. Experiments were done on decerebrate, vagotomized, paralysed and artificially-ventilated cats. Hypoglossal and laryngeal motoneurons were recorded extracellularly using five-barrel pipettes filled with: serotonin, glutamate and methysergide (serotonergic antagonist) for iontophoresis, and NaCl for recording and current balancing. All but two of the 65 hypoglossal motoneurons (45 inspiratory, 10 expiratory, 10 tonic) and 27 out of 32 laryngeal motoneurons (14 inspiratory, 18 expiratory) were excited by serotonin, and the excitation was abolished by methysergide. To compare the magnitude of the excitatory effect among distinct motoneuronal groups, we applied small ejection currents in a standardized manner (+15 nA for 3 min; 10 mM serotonin in 150 NaCl) onto spontaneously active motoneurons (13 inspiratory hypoglossal, 11 inspiratory laryngeal and 11 expiratory laryngeal). Serotonin increased the number of spikes per respiratory burst of inspiratory hypoglossal motoneurons from 19 +/- 4.0 (S.E.M.) to 35 +/- 4.8, of inspiratory laryngeal motoneurons from 44 +/- 8.3 to 55 +/- 8.8, and of expiratory laryngeal motoneurons from 23 +/- 4.8 to 33 +/- 6.2. The relative increases in activity (to 220% +/- 24, 147% +/- 23 and 148% +/- 9 of control, respectively) were significantly higher in hypoglossal than in laryngeal motoneurons. In addition, the excitatory effect developed significantly faster in hypoglossal than in laryngeal motoneurons. Methysergide reduced the spontaneous activity of about half the hypoglossal and laryngeal motoneurons to 66% +/- 5 of control. Thus, the sensitivity to the excitatory effects of serotonin varies among different pools of upper airway motoneurons. These differences correlate with the pattern of airway muscle hypotonia seen during sleep.
Nerve growth factor interacts with the trkA tyrosine kinase receptor and with the p75 neurotrophin receptor. It is clear that trkA mediates most, if not all, of the stereotypical responses of sympathetic neurons to nerve growth factor but the role of the p75 neurotrophin receptor is unclear. In this study, we have asked whether a functional interaction between p75 neurotrophin receptor and trkA exists in primary sympathetic neurons by disrupting nerve growth factor binding to p75 neurotrophin receptor. Acute assays reveal that blocking antibodies directed against p75 neurotrophin receptor reduce nerve growth factor-mediated trkA tyrosine phosphorylation and reduce the amount of nerve growth factor which binds the trkA receptor. This reduction in trkA activity is relatively short-lived in vitro and blocking antibodies to p75 neurotrophin receptor do not inhibit long-term survival of nerve growth factor-dependent primary neurons. Together, these data indicate that p75 neurotrophin receptor and trkA interact within primary neurons to enhance nerve growth factor binding to the trkA receptor under conditions of acute but not chronic nerve growth factor exposure.
To date, the electrophysiological properties of glial cells located in reactive scar tissue are unknown. To address this issue two subtypes of hippocampal glial cells, located in thin vital slices of normal or gliotic brain tissue, were analysed for their voltage controlled ion channels using the patch-clamp technique. Reactive gliosis was induced in adult rats by a single peritoneal injection of kainic acid. The intensity of the following seizures was rated ascending from 1 to 6. Rats which exhibited seizures of level 3 or higher showed, within three days, a marked loss of pyramidal cells (60% in CA1 and CA3) and an increase in the density of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunostaining, representing an apparent increase in the number and size of astrocytes in all layers of the hippocampal CA1 subfield. Reactive and normal astrocytes of one subtype, electrophysiologically characterized by time-independent potassium currents, did not significantly differ in membrane potential and potassium conductivity. Glutamine synthetase-positive, but mostly glial fibrillary acidic protein-negative, glial cells (presumably representing immature astrocytes) were also included in this study. This subtype of glial cells showed several voltage- and time-dependent potassium currents and, under control conditions, tetrodotoxin-sensitive voltage-gated Na+ channels, which were almost completely lost after reactive gliosis. Another part of this study focuses on the sensitivity of reactive and control glial cells for extracellular ATP. Several in vitro studies suggest that P2 purinergic receptors on glial cells could trigger the induction of reactive gliosis. In contrast to results described on cultured astrocytes, we found in situ that hippocampal glial cells were not sensitive to ATP or stable P2 receptor agonists in control or in gliotic brain slices. In summary, the presence of at least two different subtypes of hippocampal astrocytes was demonstrated for control as well as for gliotic brain tissue. A dramatic down-regulation of tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium channels in one subpopulation of reactive astrocytes was shown. This result supports the hypothesis that the presence of active neurons could be required to maintain glial voltage-gated sodium channels. Furthermore, we conclude that there is no longtime expression of P2 purinoceptors on hippocampal astrocytes in situ, and therefore the involvement of astrocytic ATP receptors in the genesis of reactive gliosis is unlikely.
The extracellular matrix protein tenascin-C has been implicated in the regulation of axonal growth. Using unilateral entorhinal cortex lesions, which induce a massive sprouting response in the denervated outer molecular layer of the rat fascia dentata, the role of tenascin-C for axonal growth was investigated in vivo. Monoclonal antibodies against the neurite outgrowth and anti-adhesive domains of the molecule were employed. Immunostaining was increased throughout the denervated outer molecular layer by day 2, reached a maximum around day 10, and was back to control levels by four weeks post lesion. Growth cone deflecting as well as neurite outgrowth promoting isoforms of tenascin-C were up-regulated after the lesion. Using electron microscopy, single intensely tenascin-C immunoreactive cells were identified as reactive astrocytes that phagocytose degenerated terminals. In situ hybridization histochemistry for tenascin-C messenger RNA revealed numerous cellular profiles in the denervated outer molecular layer of the ipsilateral and contralateral dentate gyrus two days post lesion. Tenascin-C messenger RNA-positive cells in the outer molecular layer were identified as astrocytes using double-labelling for tenascin-C messenger RNA and glial fibrillary acidic protein immunohistochemistry. Thus, a tenascin-C-rich substrate is present in the outer molecular layer during the time of sprouting and a sharp boundary is formed against the inner molecular layer. This pattern may contribute to the layer-specific sprouting response of surviving afferents after entorhinal lesion. Neurite outgrowth may be promoted within the denervated zone, whereas axons trying to grow into the denervated outer molecular layer, for example from the inner molecular layer, would be deflected by a tenascin-C-rich barrier.
It has been established that GABAA and GABAB receptors can exist separately and/or co-exist in the membrane of dorsal root ganglion neurons. In our previous investigation it has been shown that co-existence of these two kinds of receptors is about 80% of the neurons examined (20/25). The present study was aimed to explore whether the activation of these two kinds of receptors could interact with each other using intracellular and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Baclofen, a specific GABAB receptor agonist, was found to exert negative modulatory effects on the responses mediated by GABAA receptor. In experiments with intracellular recording, GABA (0.3-1000 microM)- and muscimol (100-1000 microM)-induced depolarization was attenuated markedly and reversibly by preapplication of baclofen (100 microM) (15/21 and 17/21, respectively). In whole-cell patch-clamp recordings GABA (100 microM) and two specific GABAA receptor agonists, muscimol (10 microM) and isoguvacine (50 microM), activated currents were inhibited markedly by preapplication of baclofen 30 s or more and the inhibition was concentration dependent (1-100 microM baclofen) and reversible. The possible mechanisms underlying the inhibition by baclofen of the responses mediated by GABAA receptor and the physiological significance implicated are discussed.
Although serotonin has been shown to play an important role in peripheral pain mechanisms, the specific subtypes of serotonin receptors involved in pain and hyperalgesia remain poorly understood. To date, no previous study has attempted to determine the presence of any serotonin receptor subtype in human dorsal root ganglia. In this study, the presence of messenger RNA for eight human serotonin receptor subtypes in lumbar dorsal root ganglia was detected using the method of polymerase chain reaction. Dorsal root ganglia were excised post mortem from four patients. Oligonucleotide primers were chosen based on unique regions of complimentary DNA sequence for eight cloned human serotonin receptor subtypes (i.e. 5-HT1A, 5-HT1D alpha, 5-HT1D beta, 5-HT1E, 5-HT1F, 5-HT2A, 5-HT2C and 5-HT7). The presence of 5-HT1D alpha, 5-HT1D beta, 5-HT1E, 5-HT1F, 5-HT2A and 5-HT7 receptor subtype messenger RNA was detected in dorsal root ganglia from three of the four subjects. 5-HT1A receptor subtype messenger RNA was detected in one of the four subjects. No 5-HT2C receptor subtype messenger RNA could be detected. Findings from this study may direct further efforts to determine the role of serotonin receptors in the peripheral nervous system.
The pontine parabrachial nucleus, which is a key structure in the central processing of autonomic, nociceptive and gustatory information, is rich in a variety of neuropeptides. In this study we have analysed the distribution of parabrachial neurons that express preproenkephalin messenger RNA, which encodes for the precursor protein for enkephalin opioids. Using an in situ hybridization method, we found that preproenkephalin messenger RNA-expressing neurons were present in large numbers in four major areas of the parabrachial nucleus: the Klliker-Fuse nucleus, the external lateral subnucleus, the ventral lateral subnucleus, and in and near the internal lateral subnucleus. Many preproenkephalin messenger RNA-expressing neurons were also seen in the central lateral subnucleus, and in the medial and external medial subnuclei. Few labeled neurons were found in the dorsal and superior lateral subnuclei. Injection of the retrograde tracer substance cholera toxin subunit B into the midline and intralaminar thalamus demonstrated that the enkephalinergic neurons in and near the internal lateral subnucleus were thalamic-projecting neurons. Taken together with the results of previous tract-tracing studies, the present findings show that many of the enkephalinergic cell groups in the parabrachial nucleus are located within the terminal zones of the ascending projections that originate from nociresponsive neurons in the medullary dorsal horn and spinal cord, as well as from viscerosensory neurons within the nucleus of the solitary tract. The enkephalinergic neurons in the parabrachial nucleus may thus transmit noci- and visceroceptive-related information to their efferent targets. On the basis of the present and previous observations, we conclude that these targets include the intralaminar and midline thalamus, the ventrolateral medulla and the spinal cord. Through these connections, nociceptive and visceroceptive stimuli may influence several functions, such as arousal, respiration and antinociception.
In the present study we have investigated the efferent projections of both the dorsal and the ventral pallidum of the pigeon basal ganglia, using the sensitive anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine [Veenman C. L. et al. (1992) J. Neurosci. Meth. 41, 239-254]. Injections of biotinylated dextran amine in the pigeon dorsal pallidum produced numerous fibers and terminals in specific nuclei of the thalamus, hypothalamus, pretectum and midbrain tegmentum. In the thalamus, labeled fibers and terminals were observed in the avian thalamic reticular nucleus, the proposed motor part of the avian ventral tier (ventrointermediate area), the avian parafascicular nucleus (nucleus dorsointermedius posterior), as well as in the avian nucleus subrotundus (which may be comparable to the posterior intralaminar nuclei of mammals). Labeled fibers and terminals were also observed in the avian subthalamic nucleus (anterior nucleus of the ansa lenticularis), in the pretectum (nucleus spiriformis lateralis) and in the avian substantia nigra pars reticulata. Injections of biotinylated dextran amine in the pigeon ventral pallidum produced fibers and terminals in specific centers of the telencephalon, hypothalamus, thalamus, epithalamus, and midbrain and isthmic tegmentum. Labeled fibers and terminals were also observed in the avian subthalamic nucleus and the inmediately adjacent lateral hypothalamus, the avian thalamic reticular nucleus, the avian medidorsal nucleusaand posterior intralaminar nuclei, and the lateral habenula. Finally, labeled fibers and terminals were found in the ventral tegmental area, the avian substantia nigra pars compacta and the midbrain/isthmic tegmentum, which includes the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. Our results indicate that both the dorsal and ventral pallida of birds have unique and specific projection patterns, which are very similar to those of their counterparts in mammals. Our study suggests that these avian basal ganglia regions may be related mainly to somatomotor and limbic functions, respectively.
Many motor effects of opiates acting at mu-opioid receptors are thought to reflect functional interactions with dopaminergic inputs to the caudate-putamen nucleus. We examined the cellular and subcellular bases for this interaction in the rat caudate-putamen nucleus by dual immunocytochemical labelling for mu-opioid receptors and tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker mainly for dopamine in this region. mu-Opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity showed a patchy distribution by light microscopy. Within the patches, electron microscopy revealed that immunogold labelling for mu-opioid receptors was mainly distributed along extrasynaptic plasma membranes of medium spiny neurons. In contrast, immunoperoxidase labelling for tyrosine hydroxylase was exclusively located in axons and axon terminals without detectable mu-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity. Forty-six percent of the total mu-opioid receptor-labelled neuronal profiles (n = 1441) were in contact with tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons and terminals. These contacts were characterized by closely apposed parallel plasma membrane segments, without well-defined synaptic junctions, or with punctate symmetric specializations. From 639 noted appositions, over 90% were between mu-opioid receptor-labelled dendrites and/or dendritic spines and tyrosine hydroxylase-containing terminals. The dendritic spines containing mu-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity often received asymmetric synapses characteristics of excitatory inputs from unlabelled terminals. Axon terminals containing mu-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity formed asymmetric synapses with dendritic spines, or apposed tyrosine hydroxylase-labelled terminals. Our results suggest that, in striatal patch compartments, mu-agonists and dopamine dually modulate the activity of single spiny neurons mainly through changes in their postsynaptic responses to excitatory inputs. In addition, our findings implicate mu-opioid receptors and dopamine in the presynaptic regulation of excitatory neurotransmitter release within the striatal patch compartments.
Calbindin-D28k is a member of the large EF-hand family of calcium-binding proteins, that is believed to function, in part as a cytosolic calcium buffer. Recent studies have demonstrated that cells containing Calbindin-D28k are protected from degeneration caused by conditions that elevate intracellular calcium concentrations. Since its initial discovery in 1966, Calbindin-D28k has been localized in the cytoplasm of many neuronal populations, but its nuclear localization has been uncertain. Using light and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry, and nuclear fractionation methods, we demonstrate localization of Calbindin-D28k not only in the cytoplasm, but also in the nucleus of rodent midbrain dopaminergic neurons and cerebellar Purkinje cells. The Calbindin-D28k immunoreactive staining intensity in the nucleus was routinely equal or greater than that in the cytoplasm. Since calcium signals are propagated to the nucleus, where they can regulate gene expression, the existence of nuclear Calbindin-D28k has important implications for cellular function.
3-Acetylpyridine is a niacinamide antagonist with potent neurotoxic properties in vitro and in vivo. 3-Acetylpyridine neurotoxicity was associated with positive DNA end-labelling and displayed features of active cell death without the ultrastructural changes of apoptotic cell death. After systemic administration in rats (70 mg/kg), we detected labelled nuclei in the inferior olive using in situ DNA end-labelling. However, the conventional chromatin stain did not show chromatin condensation or fragmentation and electron microscopy studies failed to reveal features of apoptosis. Although areas of condensed chromatin were present in some nuclei, cytoplasmic damage with extensive organelle swelling was the most prominent finding. In vitro, 3-acetylpyridine (0.1-1 mM) induced degeneration of cerebellar granule neurons in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. The protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (10 micrograms/ml) and the transcriptional inhibitor actinomycin D (10 microM) protected against 3-acetylpyridine toxicity. In contrast, neither the free radical scavenger alpha-phenyl-N-tertbutylnitron (100 microM), nor glutathione ethyl ester (10-100 microM), N-acetyl-cysteine (10-200 microM) or 3-aminobenzamide (0.1-4 mM), an inhibitor of poly(ADP-ribose) synthesis, were effective. 3-Acetylpyridine-induced neuronal death in vitro was associated with positive in situ DNA labelling. However, DNA fragmentation could not be demonstrated prior to neuronal cell loss and no DNA &quot;laddering&quot; was detected by DNA gel electrophoresis. Correspondingly, no apoptotic nuclei were revealed upon electron microscopy but organelle swelling and extensive vacuolization, changes similar to autophagocytosis. In conclusion, 3-acetylpyridine induces an active form of cell death that required de novo protein synthesis but is distinct from apoptosis. A loss of glutathione accompanies, but does not precede, cell death.
The expression of the novel growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible gene GADD45 was examined in kainate-induced epileptic brain damage in the rat using in situ hybridization, northern blot analysis, western blot analysis and immunocytochemistry. Systemic administration of kainate resulted in DNA damage and neuronal degeneration in vulnerable neurons of limbic regions, including the amygdala and hippocampal pyramidal layers, as shown by in situ DNA nick end-labelling and histological staining. GADD45 messenger RNA was transiently increased in non-vulnerable neurons (2-8 h after kainate injection) but was persistently elevated in vulnerable neurons (up to 24 h after injection) after kainate injection. GADD45 protein was elevated in both vulnerable and non-vulnerable neurons at 4 h, but levels decreased in vulnerable neurons thereafter, suggesting that translational blockage of GADD45 protein occurred in these cells. GADD45 protein was overexpressed in non-vulnerable neurons up to 72 h after kainate injection. Because GADD45 may participate in the DNA excision repair process and because it has been shown to be overexpressed in neurons that survive focal cerebral ischaemia, these results support the hypothesis that GADD45 may have a protective role in the injured brain.
Calmodulin is a calcium-binding protein that is highly abundant in the brain, where it is involved in many essential functions. The protein is mainly expressed by neuronal cells. Calmodulin is encoded by three different genes in mammals, all of them producing an identical protein. Alterations in the expression of either calmodulin genes or protein have been reported in the rodent brain by several authors in different experimental situations. However, no mention has been made to date of possible alterations in calmodulin expression in glial cells in response to certain stimuli. In the present study, we found an increase in the expression of calmodulin in reactive microglial cells in the mouse hippocampus 24 h after an intraperitoneal administration of a convulsant dose of kainic acid. The results show that a high expression of calmodulin can be added to the list of changes described to occur in microglial cells when they become reactive microglia in response to certain kinds of stimuli, in contrast to the non-detectable level of expression of this protein observed in the resting microglial cells. It is difficult to explain such an increase due to the great number of processes in which calmodulin is involved, but the great level of calmodulin observed in the reactive microglial cells shows that calmodulin immunolabelling can be used to reveal these kinds of cells.
The present study investigated the effects of 21 days of chronic restraint stress on neural and endocrine parameters in male and female rats. Consistent with previous results, repeated restraint stress induced apical dendritic atrophy (a decrease in the number of apical branch points and dendritic length) of the CA3c pyramidal neurons in male rats. In contrast, female rats did not show significant dendritic atrophy in the apical field in response to repeated restraint stress. Female rats did show a decrease in the number of branch points in the basal dendritic tree compared to male rats in response to repeated restraint stress. Baseline and stress levels of plasma corticosterone were higher in female rats compared to male rats. Females exhibited slightly longer increases in corticosterone levels throughout the 21 days of restraint stress than males, indicating that the male corticosterone response to stress exhibited greater habituation. Plasma corticosteroid-binding globulin levels of female rats were also higher than those of male rats throughout the experiment. There was no change in plasma corticosteroid-binding globulin levels in male rats during the restraint stress, while there was a decrease in plasma corticosteroid-binding globulin levels in female rats during the restraint stress. Plasma estradiol levels in female rats also decreased in response to the chronic stress. In view of the qualitatively different dendritic atrophy found in males and females in appears unlikely that sex differences in the corticosteroid-binding globulin and corticosterone response can account for these morphological differences.
After loading cultured rat hippocampal neurons with teh acetoxymethyl ester of the Ca2+ buffer BAPTA, or its dimethyl analogue DMB, the magnitudes of transient (20-25 s) depolarization- or excitatory amino acid-induced Ca2+ responses were reduced, as were the rates of increase and recovery of [Ca2+]i. In contrast, during prolonged (3-30 min) stimulation, the magnitudes of the Ca2+ responses were not reduced in buffer-loaded neurons, even though the rates of increase and recovery were still much slower compared to neurons loaded with the control molecule half-BAPTA-AM. The potential consequences of this action of BAPTA and DMB were then examined in an in vitro model of excitotoxicity in which we found that, in both fetal and postnatal cultures, glutamate-induced excitotoxicity was enhanced, rather than reduced. An additional and unexpected observation was that during exposure of neurons to solutions containing BAPTA-AM, dimethyl-BAPTA-AM, or half-BAPTA-AM, we observed a rapid but reversible increase in intracellular [Ca2+] that appeared to be mediated via an activation of voltage-operated Ca2+ channels; most probably due to a direct depolarizing effect. We suggest that the presence of artificial Ca2+ buffers interferes with the normal Ca(2+)-dependent mechanisms for limiting Ca2+ entry during stimulation and thereby leads to an enhanced net Ca2+ influx. One consequence of this action is to enhance the potency of glutamate as an excitotoxic agent. These results agree with previous observations that excitotoxicity is better correlated with the total net flux of Ca2+, rather than measurements of intracellular ionic Ca2+. Our results do not support a potential use of artificial Ca2+ buffers as neuroprotective agents.
Although long-term potentiation was generally initiated by a brief tetanus, in the hippocampus, it could also be evoked by application of the K+ channel blocker tetraethylammonium. The present study was aimed at investigating the effect of lamotrigine, a new anticonvulsant, on the tetraethylammonium-induced potentiation in brain slices of the rat amygdala using intracellular recording techniques. Bath application of tetraethylammonium (20 mM) for 10 min resulted in a long-lasting enhancement of the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials to 235 +/- 12% of control (n = 6, P &lt; 0.001). Pretreatment of the slices with nifedipine (10 microM) abolished the potentiation, suggesting that tetraethylammonium long-term potentiation in the amygdala is due to Ca2+ influx through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. By contrast, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation was not required because D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (50 microM) did not prevent the tetraehylammonium long-term potentiation. Superfusion of lamotrigine (50 microM) depressed the excitatory postsynaptic potential to 53.8 +/- 3.9% of control. Tetraethylammonium was subsequently added in the presence of lamotrigine but failed to enhance the excitatory postsynaptic potential. Bursts of Ca2+ spikes evoked by a depolarizing pulse or by synaptic stimulation under tetraethylammonium were depressed by lamotrigine. It is concluded that lamotrigine is capable of inhibiting tetraethylammonium-induced synaptic plasticity. The underlying mechanism is likely due to lamotrigine's inhibition of postsynaptic voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. Considering that tetraethylammonium is a convulsant agent and brief seizure episodes induced long-term potentiation, fibre sprouting and the development of aberrant synaptic contacts, lamotrigine could be a potential neuroprotective agent, especially in pathological situations where excessive glutamate release occurs.
To investigate intracellular mechanisms of cortical layer-specific gene regulation, we quantitatively examined the expression of two transcription factors, Zif268 and JunD, and compared their expression levels in each layer of the primary visual cortex (VI) and visual area 2 (V2) of macaque monkeys (Macaca fuscata). The brain sections were immunohistochemically stained for determination of the percentage of Zif268- or JunD-expressing neurons in the total neuronal population. We found area- and layer-specific expression of these transcription factors; Zif268 tended to be expressed at high levels in layers on the parvocellular pathway in V1, whereas JunD did not show such an expression pattern. In V1, many Zif268-immunopositive neurons were observed in layers II/III, IVC beta and VI. The percentage of Zif268-immunopositive neurons was highest in layer IVC beta and lowest in layer IVC alpha. JunD-immunopositive neurons were fewest in layer IVC beta and most abundant in layer VI. In V2, the level of expression of Zif268 was almost the same as that of JunD in layer II/II. However, layer IV of V2 tended to contain more Zif268-immunopositive neurons than JunD-immunopositive neurons, whereas layer VI contained more JunD-immunopositive neurons than Zif268-immunopositive neurons. Although it has been reported that the same extracellular signals induce both Zif268 and JunD, the present results indicate that the expression of these transcription factors is differentially controlled in each layer of the primate visual cortical areas. Furthermore, the present results suggest that these transcription factors contribute to area- and layer-specific gene regulation by mediating transmission of extracellular signals to the nucleus via different intracellular signalling pathways.
The topographic and laminar organizations of the projection system from the zona incerta to the neocortex were studied by using both retrograde and anterograde methods in the rat. Injections of retrograde fluorescent tracers into different cortical areas revealed that the incertocortical projection neurons have a rough topographic organization with respect to their cortical targets. Furthermore, the incertocortical projecting neurons were found mainly in the dorsal and rostral subdivisions of the zona incerta, and none were found in the ventral subdivision. In cases which included three different fluorescent tracers injected into the frontal, the parietal and the occipital cortices, retrogradely single-labelled cells were found intermingled within the dorsal zona incerta. Very few double-labelled cells were noted, and triple-labelled cells were absent. Injections of anterograde tracers into the dorsal zona incerta demonstrate that labelled fibres traverse the striatum and terminate most densely in the outer half of layer I of the neocortex. The density of incertocortical terminals was greatest in the somatosensory cortex, while the innervation of visual cortical areas was sparse. Very fine and sparse bouton-like swellings of labelled incertocortical fibres were found running parallel along the pial surface. Since it has recently been shown that the incertocortical projections derive from GABAergic neurons, the present results suggest that the diffuse and roughly topographic projection from the zona incerta to the cerebral cortex may play an inhibitory role in widespread areas of cerebral cortex. This inhibitory action may preferentially target the distal dendrites of cortical neurons, since the majority of incertocortical terminals were found in the outer part of layer I of the neocortex.
The acute effect of global system for mobile communication (GSM) microwave exposure on the genomic response of the central nervous system was studied in rats by measuring changes in the messenger RNAs of hsp70, the transcription factor genes c-fos and c-jun and the glial structural gene GFAP using in situ hybridization histochemistry. Protein products of transcription factors, stress proteins and marker proteins of astroglial and microglial activation were assessed by immunocytochemistry. Cell proliferation was evaluated by bromodeoxyuridine incorporation. A special GSM radiofrequency test set, connected to a commercial cellular phone operating in the discontinuous transmission mode, was used to simulate GSM exposure. The study was conducted at time averaged and brain averaged specific absorption rates of 0.3 W/kg (GSM exposure), 1.5 W/kg (GSM exposure) and 7.5 W/kg (continuous wave exposure), respectively. Immediately after exposure, in situ hybridization revealed slight induction of hsp70 messenger RNA in the cerebellum and hippocampus after 7.5 W/kg exposure, but not at lower intensities. A slightly increased expression of c-fos messenger RNA was observed in the cerebellum, neocortex and piriform cortex of all groups subjected to immobilization, but no differences were found amongst different exposure conditions. C-jun and GFAP messenger RNAs did not increase in any of the experimental groups. 24 h after exposure, immunocytochemical analysis of FOS and JUN proteins (c-FOS, FOS B, c-JUN JUN B, JUN D), of HSP70 or of KROX-20 and -24 did not reveal any alterations. Seven days after exposure, neither increased cell proliferation nor altered expression of astroglial and microglial marker proteins were observed. In conclusion, acute high intensity microwave exposure of immobilized rats may induce some minor stress response but does not result in lasting adaptive or reactive changes of the brain.
The hypothesis that corticocerebellar units projecting to vestibulospinal neurons contribute to the spatiotemporal response characteristics of forelimb extensors to animal displacement was tested in decerebrate cats in which the activity of Purkinje cells and unidentified cells located in the cerebellar anterior vermis was recorded during wobble of the whole animal. This stimulus imposed to the animal a tilt of fixed amplitude (5 degrees) with a direction moving at a constant angular velocity (56.2 degrees/s), both in the clockwise and counterclockwise directions over the horizontal plane. Eighty-three percent (143/173) of Purkinje cells and 81% (42/52) of unidentified cells responded to clockwise and/or counterclockwise rotations. In particular, 116/143 Purkinje cells (81%) and 32/42 unidentified cells (76%) responded to both clockwise and counterclockwise rotations (bidirectional units), while 27/143 Purkinje cells (19%) and 10/42 unidentified cells (24%) responded to wobble in one direction only (unidirectional units). For the bidirectional units, the direction of maximum sensitivity to tilt (Smax) was identified. Among these units, 24% of the Purkinje cells and 26% of the unidentified cells displayed an equal amplitude of modulation during clockwise and counterclockwise rotations, indicating a cosine-tuned behavior. For this unit type, the temporal phase of the response to a given direction of tilt should remain constant, while the sensitivity would be maximal along the Smax direction, declining with the cosine of the angle between Smax and the tilt direction. The remaining bidirectional units, i.e. 57% of the Purkinje cells and 50% of the unidentified cells displayed unequal amplitudes of modulation during clockwise and counterclockwise rotations. For these neurons, a non-zero sensitivity along the null direction is expected, with a response phase varying as a function of stimulus direction. As to the unidirectional units, their responses to wobble in one direction predict equal sensitivities along any tilt direction in the horizontal plane and a response phase that changes linearly with the stimulus direction. By comparing these data with those obtained previously during selective stimulation of macular receptors by a 5 degrees off-vertical axis rotation, it appeared that the directions of maximum sensitivity to tilt were distributed over the whole horizontal plane of stimulation, in both conditions. However, co-stimulation of macular and canal receptors during wobble decreased the proportion of unidirectional units, while that of the bidirectional, namely broadly tuned units, increased. In addition, while the average gain of the Smax vector of the bidirectional units was comparable, the temporal phase of this vector tended to show a more prominent phase leading behavior during wobble with respect to off-vertical axis rotation. The possibility that the tested neurons formed a population which coded the direction of head tilt in space was also investigated using a modified version of the classical population vector analysis. It was shown that for each selected time in the tilt cycle the direction of the population vector closely corresponded to that of the head tilt, while its amplitude was related to that of the stimulus. We conclude that the broad distribution of the response vector orientation of units located in the cerebellar anterior vermis represents an appropriate substrate for the cerebellar control of vestibulospinal reflexes involving extensor muscles during a variety of head tilts. In view of their efferent projections to the vestibular and fastigial nuclei, the cerebellar anterior vermis may provide a framework for the spatial coding of vestibular inputs, giving equal emphasis to both side-to-side and fore-aft stability.
Transient global cerebral ischaemia in rats causes relatively circumscribed and specific damage to the CA1 pyramidal cells of the dorsal hippocampus, along with a cognitive deficit manifest as difficulties in the performance of a range of spatial learning and memory tasks. Our previous studies have shown that restoration of behavioural performance in ischaemic rats by neural grafts taken relatively late in fetal development occurs only after local replacement of cells homotypic to those lost through the ischaemic insult. This lesion-plus-behaviour model therefore offers a powerful means for establishing whether multipotent embryonic neuroepithelial cells will engraft the damaged CA1, develop into appropriate neuronal phenotypes and produce behavioural recovery. Here we report that, in rats subjected to 15 min of global cerebral ischaemia, intrahippocampal implants of a conditionally immortal, multipotent cell line, directly derived from the embryonic day 14 hippocampal neuroepithelium of the H-2Kb-tsA58 transgenic mouse, selectively repopulated the lesioned CA1 pyramidal layer and restored ischaemia-induced deficits in acquisition of a hidden platform location in the Morris water maze.
We developed a quantitative RNAse protection assay for alpha 2A/D-adrenoceptor messenger RNA in rats to test the hypothesis that decreases in cortical alpha 2-adrenoceptor binding observed following estrogen treatment of ovariectomized rats correlate with reduced levels of messenger RNA encoding the predominant alpha 2-adrenoceptor subtype expressed in cortex. Estradiol treatment for 48 h reduced cortical alpha 2A/D-adrenoceptor messenger RNA by approximately 50% when compared to ovariectomized, oil-treated control animals. Estradiol down-regulation of alpha 2A/D-adrenoceptor messenger RNA was accompanied by a significant decrease in cortical alpha 2-adrenoceptor density, as measured by 3H-RX821002 binding. Estrogen treatment did not alter alpha 2A/D-adrenoceptor messenger RNA or alpha 2-adrenoceptor binding in female rat hypothalamus-preoptic area. This study provides the first evidence that estradiol regulates expression of postsynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptors in female rat frontal cortex, suggesting a possible molecular substrate for hormonal modulation of cognitive function.
Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations were discovered during a few years around 1990 and thought to be assigned to the three major clinical forms of mitochondrial myopathies. Then, several mtDNA mutations were detected in each disease and the common mutations were found in more than one disease, suggesting genotype and phenotype heterogeneity. Heteroplasmy, tissue/cellular specificity and threshold effect have been extensively studied using skeletal muscle and culture cells from the patients, but the major part of the relations up between mtDNA genotype and clinical phenotype remains unknown. Because of the facts that mtDNA mutations have been found in other clinical forms (not myopathies), and frataxin, the product of the responsible gene for Freidreich ataxia, may be associated with mtDNA biogenesis, disease entity accompanied by mtDNA abnormalities could expand more in the future.
Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD) is an inherited muscular disorder characterized by the triad of progressive weakness in humero-peroneal muscles, early onset contractures and cardiomyopathy with conduction block that shows a high risk of sudden death. In 1994, the gene responsible for X-linked EDMD has been identified to Xq28 (designated as STA), that encodes a serine-rich protein of 254 amino acids, named emerin. In 1996, we discovered a nuclear membrane localization of emerin in the normal skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles, but not in the tissues from patients with X-linked EDMD who had a nonsense mutation in the gene. In conclusion, molecular and genetic analyses of emerin are essential for accurate diagnosis of patients with EDMD.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD; MIM 158900) is one of the major forms of muscular dystrophy, and is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. In most patients with FSHD, deletion of 3.3 kb tandemly repeated units within the EcoRI fragment, as detected by p13E-11 (D4F104S1) on chromosome 4q35, is associated with the disease (FSHD1A or 4q35-FSHD). Rare (&lt; 5%) 4q35-unlinked FSHD (FSHD1B) is also known, and therefore genetic heterogeneity exists among FSHD. Recent studies based on the distinction of 4q35 EcoRI fragments from those of 10q26 improved the reliability of molecular diagnosis of the disease (&gt; 95% accuracy). However, gene for FSHD1A has not been identified yet. Identification of the FSHD gene and characterization of the gene product are waited on tiptoe with expectation.
Immunocytochemical deficiency of alpha-sarcoglycan (adhalin) in the skeletal muscle that is associated with normal dystrophin expression has been called adhalinopathy. However, recent molecular biological and genetic studies revealed that alpha-sarcoglycan is one of four subunits of sarcoglycans (alpha-delta) or sarcoglycan complex. Mutations of any one of the genes of these subunits cause loss of sarcoglycan complex, and therefore they are now called sarcoglycanopathy or limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) 2C-2F. The frequency of sarcoglycanopathy is about 5-10% of dystrophin-normal muscular dystrophy. Mutation of alpha-sarcoglycan gene is most frequent (34%) among the four sarcoglycan genes as shown in the tables. However, 38% of the patients with sarcoglycanopathy have no mutation, implying the presence of yet unknown sarcoglycan(s) and/or interacting protein(s) with sarcoglycan complex.
Dystrophin is a cytoskeletal protein complexed with a number of cell membrane glycoproteins to from the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC) in striated muscle. The dystroglycan complex, one of the functional subcomplexes composing the DGC, is a novel type of laminin receptor playing active roles in signal transduction. Another functional subcomplex composing the DGC is the sarcoglycan complex, comprised of alpha-(also called adhalin), beta-, gamma- and delta-sarcoglycans. Recent revelations indicate that genetic defects of either alpha-, beta-, gamma- or delta-sarcoglycan lead to a loss of the entire sarcoglycan complex and result in the phenotype of severe limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (collectively called sarcoglycanopathy). In this review, I discuss the molecular pathogenesis and clinical features sarcoglycanopathy.
Gene therapy was considered in the treatment of life-threatening muscular dystrophy such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Introduction of 6.3 kb minidystrophin cDNA using adenovirus vector into skeletal muscle of mdx mice was successful, when the recombinant adenovirus was injected during the neonatal period. Recombinant adenovirus, however, evoked strong immunological reactions, when it was injected during the adult stage. The usage of mutant adenovirus, where a full length dystrophin cDNA was inserted instead of all of adenovirus protein genes, might resolve the problems that initial generations of adenovirus vector raised. Upregulation of endogenous utrophin might also give a relief in DMD patients, since introduction of truncated utrophin gene considerably improved phenotypic expression of mdx mice, when introduced as a transgene.
Considerable advances in the genetic analysis and diagnosis of muscular diseases made during the past years that may allow detailed clinical understanding, specific diagnosis, hope for gene therapy, and better genetic counseling of the disease. The scientific research progress in the human genetics, however, raised social and ethical issues. This would largely not due to the genetic technology but with its proper use. In this introductory note, I am going to describe the recent advances and future prospects of genetic aspects of the muscular disease.

PET (positron emission tomography) and SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) are isotopic methods in which the distribution is registered of radiolabelled tracers given in such small amounts that they are without effect on the organism or the organism's disposal of them. Thus, a series of important biological processes in the intact organism can be studied. The methods have been used in many disciplines but in particular for neurobiological research on the brain--e.g., the brain's regional blood circulation and mapping of the brain's functional structure. The methods have also been used in the investigation of glucose and amino acid metabolism in the brain and receptor conditions.

Immunohistochemical localizations of carbonic anhydrase isozymes (CA-I, CA-II and CA-III) in bovine male reproductive tracts were studied. In bulls, no immunoreaction was seen after treatment with antibodies to CA-I, -II and CA-III in the testis. Specific staining for CA-III, however, was evident in peritubular cells in interstitial tissue of the testis, epididymis. CA-II activity could be detected in epithelium of the epididymis, ductus deferentis and ampulla ductus deferentis. Especially, a strong reaction for CA-II was seen in apical in epithelium of the epididymis in the initial and middle segment. CA-I activity was only founded in ductus deferentis and ampulla ductus deferentis. No or a weak reaction for CA-I, CA-II and CA-III were seen in the three accessory reproductive glands. Specific immunostaining for CA-II and CA-I could be observed in the organ, suggesting the bicarbonate in bovine semen to derive primarily from the genital tract and not accessory reproductive organs. CA-III-positive peritubular cells in interstitial tissue were also stained for alpha smooth muscle actin, and were very similar to contractile myofibroblast cells (Wrobel et al., 1979).

The processing of pain-related, body-related and neutral words was assessed in chronic pain patients and matched healthy controls. During and after word presentation at perception threshold, electromyographic activity (EMG), heart rate, skin conductance level and electroencephalographic (EEG) data from 11 electrode sites were recorded. Startle responses were measured to suprathreshold word stimuli. Although the patients did not recognize more pain-related words, they produced an enhanced left-hemispheric N100 and N200 to pain-related as compared to neutral words. In addition, the patients did not show a distinct P300 but a continuous positive shift to all words extending into the 800-ms range. Skin conductance levels to the pain-related words were also enhanced in patients only. These data partially support the notion of pain-related implicit memory structures in the brain of chronic pain patients that may selectively draw attention to pain-related stimuli and may thus enhance pain perception.
Morphometric and electrophysiological features of hair cells in the sacculus of the bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) were studied. Confocal microscopy observations of hair cells in situ revealed that three classes of hair cells can be distinguished by their somata shape and macular location. Two of these, termed central cylindrical (CCHCs) and central flask-shaped (CFHCs) hair cells, were found in the central part of the macula. The third class, termed peripheral elongated hair cells (PEHC), was only found around the perimeter of the sacculus. Using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique CCHCs and CFHCs were distinguished by the amplitude of their voltage-activated calcium currents (ICa). The mean amplitudes of steady-state ICa at -20 mV were -900 +/- 500 pA (n = 18) for CCHCs and -160 +/- 70 pA (n = 10) for CFHCs. The two hair-cell types also differed in the possession of a Cs+-resistant, apamin-sensitive, calcium-sensitive potassium current, found only the CFHCs. This study indicates that several populations of hair cells with distinct morphological features exist in the bullfrog sacculus, and that at least two of these differ in their complement of membrane conductances.
The proclivity of d-amphetamine and methylphenidate to induce perseverative motoric and vocal side effects detracts from the clinical efficacy of these stimulants in the treatment of Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). In an attempt to develop a model for these deleterious treatment effects, this study explored the behavioral influences exerted by d-amphetamine and methylphenidate in the young laboratory rat. This experiment revealed that doses of these stimulants that typically induce stereotypy provoke diverging behavioral profiles: while animals given 5 mg/kg d-amphetamine exhibited repetitive sniffing activity, rats treated with 30 mg/kg methyl-phenidate displayed perseverative gnawing behaviors. Although pretreatment with the serotonin synthesis inhibitor p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) significantly attenuated both stimulant-induced stereotypies, the effect of PCPA on d-amphetamine-induced sniffing was more profound than on methylphenidate-induced gnawing. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis of monoamine levels in the striatum, frontal cortex, and thalamus indicated that PCPA induced an overall 89% depletion of serotonin across all conditions. These findings shed some light on the neurochemical mechanisms that underlie the differential effects of d-amphetamine and methylphenidate on stereotyped motor activity in the rat, and suggest future experiments for understanding the role of serotonin in such effects. Further, these results have implications for the differential side effects observed from each of these stimulants when used clinically in children with ADHD.
The ontogeny of physical characteristics, spontaneous motor, and sensorimotor behaviors of preweaning rats, as well as ambulation and emotionality at weaning (day 21) were studied in rats exposed to 50 mg/kg naltrexone (NTX) or saline (controls) daily throughout gestation by maternal administration; all animals were cross-fostered to untreated mothers at birth. Morphine challenge tests and nociceptive measures revealed that this dosage of opioid antagonist blocked opioid receptors for 24 h. At birth and weaning, animals in the NTX group weighed 12 and 20%, respectively, more than control offspring. The age at which a specific physical characteristic, spontaneous motor behavior, or reflex initially appeared and the age at which 100% of the animals demonstrated a particular characteristic/behavior often were accelerated in animals prenatally exposed to NTX. The frequency of ambulation was subnormal in the NTX group, and the frequency and/or incidence of rearing, grooming, wet-dog shakes, and defecation were reduced from normal levels in these opioid antagonist-exposed rats. These results imply that interactions of endogenous opioid systems during embryogenesis are determinants of somatic, physical, and behavioral development in postnatal life.
Naloxone has been shown to facilitate extinction of ethanol-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in mice. The present-study extended these findings by examining naloxone's effect on the expression (Experiment 1) and acquisition (Experiment 2) of place conditioning with ethanol in rats. In Experiment 1, after place conditioning with ethanol (1.8 g/kg, I.P.), groups N0, N1.5, and N10 received 0, 1.5, or 10 mg/kg naloxone before testing. As expected, ethanol produced a robust conditioned place aversion (CPA). However, naloxone had no effect on expression of CPA. In contrast to studies with mice, the endogenous opioid system does not appear to be involved in the conditioned motivational effects of ethanol in rats. In Experiment 2, groups SE1 and SE2, NS(1.5), NE(1.5), and NE(10), received ethanol alone (1.2 g/kg), naloxone alone (1.5 mg/kg), naloxone 1.5 mg/kg plus ethanol, and naloxone 10 mg/kg plus ethanol during acquisition, respectively. All naloxone-treated groups exhibited CPA. Moreover, group NE(1.5) showed a stronger CPA than group NS(1.5). The CPA produced by coadministration of naloxone and ethanol was attributed to naloxone's effects on the neural processes underlying ethanol's unconditioned aversive effects, or to other nonspecific effects on ethanol's motivational properties.
Changes in intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) evoked from ventral tegmental area-substantia nigra (VTA-SN) and lateral hypothalamus-medial forebrain bundle (LH-MFB) before and after microinjections of sulfated cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8S) and unsulfated cholecystokinin (CCK-8US), neurotensin tridecapeptide ([D-Tyr11]NT(1-13) or [DTrp11]NT(1-13)) into either VTA-SN or LH-MFB were assessed. The current intensity was fixed at a level to obtain 60-70% of the maximal asymptotic rate. CCK-8S (0.10 microg/0.5 microl and 0.25 microg/0.5 microl) into VTA-SN resulted in dose-dependent decreases in VTA-SN ICSS of 38-42% and 78-92%, respectively, without affecting the ICSS of LH-MFB. Similar doses of CCK-8S injected into LH-MFB changed neither LH-MFB ICSS nor VTA-SN ICSS. CCK-8Us injected into VTA-SN or LH-MFB had no effect on ICSS in either site. Intra-VTA-SN injections of the neurotensin-1 (NT1) receptor agonist [DTyr11]NT(1-13) and the NT1 receptor antagonist [D-Trp11]NT(1-13) at doses of 5 microg/0.5 microl and 10 microg/0.5 microl decreased VTA-SN ICSS. NT1 receptor agonist and antagonist injections did not alter LH-MFB ICSS in any significant manner. Similar injections of these peptides into LH-MFB did not change the responding rates for LH-MFB ICSS or VTA-SN ICSS. Increasing the current intensity reversed the inhibitory effect of CCK-8S and [D-Trp11]NT(1-13) on VTA-SN ICSS and restored basal preinjection rates of responding. These results suggest that CCK(A) and NT1 receptor mechanisms in the ventral tegmentum in association with dopamine neurotransmission may be important in mediating the rewarding effects of VTA-SN ICSS but not LH-MFB ICSS.
Paralleling the effects of uncontrollable stressors, systemic administration of sheep red blood cells (SRBC) provokes brain neurotransmitter alterations, including DA variations within mesocorticolimbic regions, coinciding with or slightly preceding the peak immune response. Inasmuch as stressors disrupt responding for brain stimulation from the nucleus accumbens, possibly reflecting the anhedonic consequences of stressors, the present investigation assessed whether antigenic challenge would also influence responding for brain stimulation. Sheep red blood cell administration was found to reduce responding for brain stimulation from the nucleus accumbens, without affecting performance from the substantia nigra. The alterations of self-stimulation from the nucleus accumbens occurred at times that approximated the peak immune response. These data suggest that antigenic challenge may induce anhedonic-like effects that may be secondary to central neurochemical alterations engendered by the treatment. The possibility is also entertained that antigenic challenge may be interpreted as a stressor and contribute to alterations of affect.
The interactions between dams and their pups and among siblings were investigated in litters with (a) all pups depleted of striatal dopamine by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA on PND3), (b) all pups treated with vehicle, or (c) half of the pups depleted of dopamine and the other half treated with vehicle. On PND10, two sets of four pups from each litter were videotaped in a novel environment with the dam:pup and maternal behaviors were later scored by blind observers. We observed a 70% decrease in striatal dopamine in 6-OHDA-treated pups but found no effect of treatment on pup weight gain. Dams with some or all DA-depleted pups (a) were slower to retrieve a pup and establish a nest, (b) retrieved pups less frequently, and (c) spent less time huddling with pups than dams with only vehicle-treated pups. When compared with DA-depleted pups in homogeneous litters, DA-depleted pups in mixed litters were less hyperactive and spent more time huddling with other pups than in isolation. These results suggest that DA-depleted pups receive compromised maternal care but can benefit from interactions with normal siblings.
4-tert-Octylphenol (OP) is a prevalent environmental pollutant which binds to estrogen receptors and exerts estrogenic actions in vitro. The effects of OP in vivo on mammalian female reproduction are not known. We investigated whether (i) exposure of neonatal rats to OP interfered with the onset of vaginal opening or their ability to have regular estrous cycles as adults and (ii) exposure of adult rats to OP interfered with estrous cyclicity and ovulation. Injection of 1 mg OP in corn oil sc on the day after birth did not affect the day of vaginal opening. However, 9 of 11 OP-treated rats were in persistent vaginal estrus when examined at three months after birth compared with 0 of 9 corn oil-injected controls, which cycled regularly. Ten of eleven neonatal rats injected with 1.7 mg of the estrogenic pesticide methoxychlor also were in persistent estrus at 3 months after birth, and all 10 neonatal rats injected with 1 mg of 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, which is apparently nonestrogenic, cycled regularly. Injection of 20 or 40 mg OP in corn oil vehicle sc three times weekly into previously untreated adult cyclic rats caused persistent estrus in 2 of 6 and 16 of 21 rats, respectively. Injections were continued for three more weeks in 5 of the 16 rats rendered persistent estrus by the 40 mg OP treatment. These rats remained in persistent estrus for the additional 3-week period. The other 11 persistent estrous rats in the 40 mg treatment group started to cycle regularly within 5-7 days after the last injection. Unlike pentobarbital, injection of OP into cyclic rats during the afternoon of proestrus did not block ovulation. These results provide strong evidence that OP acts like estrogen in vivo in both neonatal and adult female rats to exert effects that block reproductive cyclicity.
The growth-associated protein B-50 (GAP-43) is a presynaptic protein. Its expression is largely restricted to the nervous system. B-50 is frequently used as a marker for sprouting, because it is located in growth cones, maximally expressed during nervous system development and re-induced in injured and regenerating neural tissues. The B-50 gene is highly conserved during evolution. The B-50 gene contains two promoters and three exons which specify functional domains of the protein. The first exon encoding the 1-10 sequence, harbors the palmitoylation site for attachment to the axolemma and the minimal domain for interaction with G0 protein. The second exon contains the &quot;GAP module&quot;, including the calmodulin binding and the protein kinase C phosphorylation domain which is shared by the family of IQ proteins. Downstream sequences of the second and non-coding sequences in the third exon encode species variability. The third exon also contains a conserved domain for phosphorylation by casein kinase II. Functional interference experiments using antisense oligonucleotides or antibodies, have shown inhibition of neurite outgrowth and neurotransmitter release. Overexpression of B-50 in cells or transgenic mice results in excessive sprouting. The various interactions, specified by the structural domains, are thought to underlie the role of B-50 in synaptic plasticity, participating in membrane extension during neuritogenesis, in neurotransmitter release and long-term potentiation. Apparently, B-50 null-mutant mice do not display gross phenotypic changes of the nervous system, although the B-50 deletion affects neuronal pathfinding and reduces postnatal survival. The experimental evidence suggests that neuronal morphology and communication are critically modulated by, but not absolutely dependent on, (enhanced) B-50 presence.
In the frog, unitary electrophysiological recordings have been extensively used to investigate odor processing along the olfactory pathways. From the responses of primary second-order neurons, neuroreceptor and mitral cells, odor stimuli could be classified in qualitative groups, revealing that neuronal discriminative mechanisms are partly based on the structure of odor molecule. In the olfactory bulb, thanks both to the anatomical convergence of primary afferences and intrinsic network properties, mitral cells have been demonstrated to gain in odor discrimination and detection power abilities. GABAergic bulbar interneurons were found to be involved in the control of mitral cell excitability, adjusting response thresholds and duration and promoting a progressive increase of burst discharges with stimulus concentration. Otherwise, dopamine was observed to shunt off mitral cell spontaneous activity without altering their odor responsivity properties. Dopamine was demonstrated to act through D2 receptors. Matching anatomical and electrophysiological data, D2 receptors are assumed to be localized on mitral cells. The frog olfactory cortex neurons, silent at rest, could be segregated in two functional groups basing on their odor response properties. The first group shared most intensity coding properties with mitral cells while showing a lower discriminative power, similar to that of neuroreceptor cells. By contrast, the second group provided only minimal intensity coding and, basing on its high discrimination power, was assumed to be mainly devoted to odor discrimination. Thus, along the olfactory pathways, intensity and quality odor parameters which are simultaneously encoded by a neuroreceptor or mitral cell, become specified by two distinct populations in the cortex.
This article discusses current controversies and future directions in basal ganglia research, detailing behavioral aspects, anatomic models, neurochemistry, pharmacology, and diagnostic methods as well as surgical techniques. A neuroethologic perspective is highlighted. Furthermore, the relevant literature pertaining to contemporary molecular approaches such as brain microinjections of embryonic or genetically modified cells, for therapeutic purposes and the use of transgenic and knockout animals.
Neuroimaging and neuropsychology are complementary disciplines that provide powerful means for assessing the structure and function of corticostriatal systems. Findings from four model basal ganglia disorders--OCD, TS, HD, and PD--are reviewed. This survey is intended as a vehicle for illustrating the breadth of current clinical and research applications, as well as the potential for future advances. The perspectives brought by neuroimaging and neuropsychology serve as a natural bridge from the basic neuroscience to the clinical practice articles in this issue.




Oral self-administration and operant tasks have been used successfully to confirm ethanol's positive reinforcing effects in rats. However, in flavor conditioning tasks, ethanol is typically found to have aversive effects. The present studies explored this apparent paradox by examining the change in value of a flavor paired with orally self-administered ethanol in two different limited-access procedures. Rats were food-deprived and trained to drink (experiment 1) or to barpress for (experiment 2) 10% (v/v) ethanol during daily 30-min sessions using prandial initiation techniques. All rats were then exposed to a differential flavor conditioning procedure in which banana or almond extract was added to the drinking solution. One flavor (counterbalanced) was always mixed with ethanol (CS+), whereas the other flavor was mixed with water (CS-). By the end of conditioning, rats in both experiments drank more flavored ethanol than flavored water, confirming ethanol's efficacy as a reinforcer. Moreover, barpress rates for CS+ exceeded those for CS- in the operant task. Ethanol doses self-administered in final sessions averaged about 1 g/kg. The effect of the flavor-ethanol contingency was assessed in preference tests that offered a choice between the two flavor solutions without ethanol. In both experiments, subjects developed a preference for the flavor that had been paired with ethanol. Thus, the outcome of flavor conditioning was consistent with that of the oral self-administration tasks in providing evidence of ethanol's rewarding effects. These experiments confirm and extend previous studies showing that flavor aversion is not the inevitable result of flavor-ethanol association in rats. It seems likely that ethanol's nutrient and pharmacological effects both contributed to the development of conditioned flavor preference.
We examined the effect of 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(f)quinoxaline (NBQX), an antagonist of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) subtype of glutamate receptor, on the development and expression of behavioral sensitization to amphetamine and cocaine in rats. A single injection of NBQX (12.5 mg/kg) administered 30 min prior to cocaine during the induction phase (days 1-5) prevented the development of cocaine sensitization, assessed by responsiveness to cocaine challenge on day 8. This NBQX regimen did not affect development of amphetamine sensitization. Two pretreatment injections of NBQX, one 20 min before and one 70 min after amphetamine on each day of the induction phase (days 1-6), did not affect sensitization of stereotypy but prevented sensitization of post-stereotypy ambulatory hyperactivity (both assessed by responsiveness to amphetamine challenge on day 8). The effect of NBQX on ambulatory sensitization was dose-dependent (attenuation with 12.5 mg/kg, complete prevention with 25 mg/kg). In contrast to its effects on development, NBQX (25 mg/kg) did not prevent expression of sensitization to cocaine or amphetamine. NBQX itself exerted no significant effects on locomotor activity in either drug-naive rats or rats that had received either NBQX or amphetamine repeatedly. These findings support a requirement for AMPA receptor stimulation in the development of locomotor sensitization to cocaine and amphetamine, but suggest a different mechanism for sensitization of amphetamine stereotypy.
Magnetic resonance (MR is a remarkably versatile technology applicable to various aspects of medical science. Currently, there are three categories of MR techniques available for probing human brain function in detail. The first category comprises the most widely utilized techniques which make use of the metabolic effects of brain activation, represented by BOLD (blood oxygenation level dependent) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The second category of techniques deals with apparent diffusion tensor probing the axonal connectivity and is represented by three dimensional anisotropy contrast (3DAC) axonography. The third category of techniques is a biological application of classical nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy capable of providing biochemical information in vivo and is represented by spectroscopic imaging (SI). As techniques directly applicable to clinical medicine, BOLD fMRI and 3DAC axonography possess the highest potential.
Damage to the minor hemisphere or the right hemisphere of most right-handed subjects produces various neuropsychological disorders. Unilateral spatial neglect is the deficit to respond or orient to stimuli on the left side. The inferior parietal lobule is most frequently involved in the lesions of neglect patients, but lesions confined to the lobule may not cause chronic neglect. Severe and lasting neglect is frequently found in patients with an infarction in the territory of the middle cerebral artery or the anterior choroidal artery. Neglect is usually mild or moderate after frontal lesions. The most important mechanism of neglect seems to be disorders in spatial attention: rightward attentional bias, and impairment in disengagement and shift of attention from the right side. Directional hypokinesia is rarely observed in the chronic stage. Non-spatial factors, such as motivational deficit, insufficient compensation with verbal intelligence, or disuse of an appropriate spatial strategy may also contribute to the appearance of neglect. Anosognosia for hemiplegia is found in about half of patients with acute cerebrovascular accidents in the right hemisphere. Generalized attentional and intellectual deficits, diffuse brain atrophy or hypometabolism, and presence of multiple infarction may result in chronic anosognosia. Constructional disability is observed in about 30% patients with either hemisphere damage. Dressing apraxia is more frequent in right hemisphere damage. These two disorders, however, rarely appear as isolated neuropsychological deficits. Most patients show some of the accompanying disorders, such as unilateral spatial neglect, anosognosia, anosodiaphoria, and generalized attentional and intellectual impairment. By contrast, motor neglect may occur independently of the other disorders. Motor neglect follows damage to either hemisphere, although it occurs more frequently after right hemisphere damage. Neuropsychological deficits characteristic of right hemisphere damage may be unilateral spatial neglect in the acute and chronic stages and anosognosia for hemiplegia in the acute stage.
Anterior cerebral artery territory infarction, which affects the medial frontal lobe and anterior part of the corpus callosum, may cause disinhibitory movement and behavioral disorders. The pathophysiology of disinhibitory movement and behavioral disorders was discussed in relation to the role of the frontal lobe in motor control and hemispheric asymmetry of motor functions. Instinctive grasp reaction is the prototype of disjunctive motor disinhibition syndromes, and diagnostic dyspraxia and compulsive manipulation of tools are the most illustrative forms. Diagnostic dyspraxia can be defined as uncontrolled cross-purposeful actions of the left hand triggered by voluntary activities of the left hand. In compulsive manipulation of tools, a patient, with the right hand, grasp and use tolls placed in front of them against the patient's will. The left hand often restrains the unintentional movement of the right hand in accordance with the patient's will. Utilization and imitation behaviors described by Lhermitte et al belong to disinhibitory behavioral disorders, in which volition of the patient or an individual as a whole is involved. External stimuli reflexively provoke the patient's will to act. The behaviors accordant with the will, even if inappropriate, are not compulsive, but the easily-raised volition in response to the stimuli is pathological. These disinhibitory disorders differ from disjunctive motor disinhibition syndromes because of lack of inconsistency between will and manifested behavior. Lesions in the frontal lobes has been suggested to be responsible for utilization and imitation behaviors.
Clinical pathological approach is defined as combination of neurological, neurophysiological and neuroradiological findings for the interpretation of the morphology of the sural nerve. For this purpose, first, the usefulness of simultaneous biopsy of sural nerve and ipsilateral short peroneal muscle was presented. This method has helped establish the diagnosis of angitis or amyloidosis in some cases. Furthermore, motor-dominant clinical picture was ascertained by relative preservation of sural nerve in contrast with severe changes in intramuscular nerve fascicles. Second, histochemistry using UEA-1 lectin to detect somatic sensory C fibers was discussed. UEA-1 specifically binds to unmyelinated axons and small neurons in dorsal root ganglia as well as substantia gelatinosa of the spinal cord. Serial semithin and ultrathin sections were obtained. The semithin section was removed of epon and stained histochemically with UEA-1. Positive fibers in the semithin section was compared with the counterpart in the ultrathin sections. UEA-1 positive fibers were found to comprise 20% of all unmyelinated fibers and be randomly distributed among the entire nerve fascicles. The application of this technique to pathological specimens is now undergoing. Third, an autopsy case with sarin intoxication was reported as an example of systemic study of the peripheral nervous system. The patient was a 51-year-old man who inhaled sarin in the attack of Tokyo Subway. He fell into vegetative state and was passively maintained for 13 months. Peripheral sensory nerve showed typical pattern of dying back-type distal peripheral axonopathy. It might be indicated that peripheral nerve be carefully checked among the sarin victims. In conclusion, the aim of our approach is to combine all clinical information, introduce recent advance in neuroscience, and try to find possible cure to intractable neurological disorders.
We examined mutations of presenilin 1 (PS1), presenilin 2 (PS2) and amyloid precursor protein (APP) in 30 Japanese familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) and 34 isolated cases of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We found mutations of PS1 in 17% of early onset FAD (H163R, H163R, R269H, E273A, G384A) and in a case (H163R) of isolated AD. The remaining cases were free from mutations in PS1, PS2 and APP. Since only a part of them could he explained by ApoE epsilon 4, we concluded that important genes are missing. We also examined association of apolipoprotein E (ApoE)epsilon 4, allele A of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin (ACT), 5 repeat allele of very low density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) and Alzheimer's disease. We confirmed that ApoE espilon 4 is significantly more frequent in both FAD and isolated AD cases than controls. We could not see any significant association in the ACT polymorphism. The 5 repeat allele of VLDLR was slightly but significantly more frequent in AD cases than controls. However, association with ApoE epsilon 4 was not seen in our study.
A sample of 78 patients (32 females and 46 males) who had a first unprovoked generalized tonic-clonic seizure between the age of 3 and 21 years was studied prospectively. Duration of follow-up was 2-10 years (mean 5.2 years). A second seizure occurred in 69.2% (54 of 78), most commonly (38 of 54, 70.37%) in the first three months after the first seizure. There were no significant differences in the total number of relapses among various aetiological groups. For idiopathic aetiology, seizure recurrence was significantly more common if the first seizure occurred during sleep (24 of 29, 82.75%) than in the waking state (5 of 13, 17.25%). The second seizure occurred in the same state, i.e. night sleep or awake in 72.2% (39 of 54) of patients. The presence of epileptiform patterns in the first two EEGs in the waking state or in sleep was significantly associated with a highly increased risk of seizure recurrence.
We performed pattern analysis of the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) profiles of 55 patients with pseudoseizures in order to establish whether there was any single pattern which would be sufficient to characterize the entire sample. Two published methods of pattern analysis were used. Neither method revealed a single pattern or profile code which could best characterize the sample. The Graham method revealed that the Hysteria and Schizophrenia scales were most likely to be found among the profile leads, followed by the Depression, and to a lesser extent, the Hypochondriasis scales. According to the Friedman method, 30.9% of the records could be classified as 'spike', 'two-point code' or 'three-point code'. The most striking finding of the study is that 40% of the profiles had four or more clinical scale elevations. Furthermore, 91% of those profiles with multiple elevations had elevations on both the neurotic and psychotic scales. This suggests that a substantial proportion of MMPI profiles in this sample are complex, and the clinical picture which they reflect requires a broader scope of psychological analysis beyond that of a single psychological mechanism.
First- and second-night effects on the electroencephalogram (EEG) were investigated by means of polygraphic sleep recordings and all-night spectral analysis. Eighteen normal subjects were studied for three consecutive nights in a hospital sleep laboratory. Visual sleep scoring showed that there was a first-night effect in normal subjects similar to that reported previously [increased wakefulness; decreased total sleep time, sleep efficiency, and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep]. Spectral analysis of the sleep EEG revealed important changes, most of which occurred in REM sleep. Increased delta, theta, and beta1 power densities accompanied by decreased mean frequency were seen in REM sleep in the second night. On the basis of REM sleep deprivation results previously published, our data suggest that the second night could be affected by partial REM sleep deprivation that occurred in the first night. Delta and theta power density values decreased in the first non-rapid eye movement episode of nights 1 and 2; this could result from increased REM sleep pressure. The overall consistency of spectral data in the first and second night with REM sleep findings derived from visual scoring in the first night lends further support to this hypothesis. The sleep disturbance experienced during the first night in a sleep laboratory may be a useful and valid model of transient insomnia. Therefore, we conclude that data from all nights recorded should be included in assessing a subject's sleep.



The aim of this study was to assess causes of death among 258 unnaturally deceased drug addicts who had been part of an earlier longitudinal follow-up of 1,630 patients treated in Stockholm County. An evaluation of the causes of death was carried out on the basis of hospital records and autopsy protocols. The majority of deaths were caused by accidents (39%) and suicides (31%). Intoxications were involved in 67 of the 101 accidents. Violent methods were employed in 40 of the 79 suicides. An exceptionally large proportion (28%) of the fatalities occurred during or immediately after hospitalization, which calls for increased attention to this patient group by the health services.
Large families of genetically distinct G-protein coupled receptor subtypes mediate dopamine's (D1-D5) and acetylcholine's effects (m1-m5). A functional balance of dopamine and acetylcholine may be based in part on the differential expression of receptor subtypes by distinct neuron subpopulations. The localization of the D1 and D2 receptors, the predominant dopamine receptors in neostriatum, to distinct subpopulations of striatal projection neurons has been controversial. In addition, m4 receptor localization to specific striatal projection neuron subpopulations is also at question. To determine whether rat striatonigral neurons differentially express D1, D2, and m4 receptor proteins, we combined immunocytochemistry by using receptor subtype specific antibodies and retrograde tracing with cholera toxin-colloidal gold. D1 and m4 receptor immunoreactivity was visualized in 95% and 92% of identified striatonigral neurons, respectively. By contrast, D2 receptor immunoreactivity was visualized in only 1% of these neurons. These findings support models of basal ganglia in which D1 and D2 receptors are segregated, as well as indicate that D1 and m4 are colocalized. These cellular distributions may be important substrates for the putative DA/ACh balance that is implicated in certain movement disorders.
The distribution of D1A dopamine (DA) receptor proteins was assessed by using subtype specific antireceptor antisera after acute DA exposure. The immunofluorescent staining of D1A DA receptor protein expression was examined in (1) stably transfected Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, (2) primary striatal cell cultures, and (3) rat striatal brain slices. After agonist exposure as brief as 2 min and as long as 60 min, profound loss of immunofluorescent D1A receptor protein staining occurred in each paradigm. Additionally in the tissue slice, immunofluorescent neuropil staining for the receptor protein also was attenuated. The DA-induced alteration in receptor protein staining was blocked by the antagonist (+)-butaclamol and by the selective D1-family antagonist SCH 23390. Receptor staining patterns reverted back to the control immunofluorescent distribution within 15 min after removing the agonist from the bath. Immunofluorescence for the second-messenger cyclic AMP increased at all DA exposure times in the three experimental paradigms, was blocked by D1-family antagonists, and decreased to basal staining after brief recovery periods. This demonstrated the functional integrity of the D1A receptor in target cells. Pretreatment with the mitogenic plant lectin concanavalin A blocked the immunofluorescent decrease in receptor staining but not the elevation of the second messenger, indicating a morphologic distinction in these two events, parallel to other biochemical reports. The data suggested that a morphologic basis of acute homologous D1A DA receptor desensitization may be transposition of membrane-surface receptors to a transiently unavailable, intracellular compartment. This finding is supported by specific fluorescence incorporation of FM1-43, used as a marker of endocytosis, in CHO cells treated with DA.
The heavy metal lead (Pb) has been shown to downregulate various parameters of cell-mediated immune (CMI) responses. This inhibition of CMI responses by Pb is exemplified by a higher mortality rate upon infections with sublethal doses of a variety of pathogens. Unlike Pb, which lowers host resistance, interleukin-12 (IL-12) exerts a substantial stimulatory influence on the host response to intracellular bacteria such as Listeria monocytogenes. To explore the influence of IL-12 in mice rendered susceptible to Listerial infection by oral exposure to Pb, we determined bacterial burdens and production of interferon gamma (IFN-gamma). As expected, Pb-exposed mice had increased morbidity due to higher Listerial titers as compared to control mice. However, administration of exogenous IL-12 reversed the Pb-induced inhibition of host defense and boosted the resistance of the non-Pb-treated mice. The enhanced CMI responses observed in both IL-12-treated groups were accompanied with elevations of IFN-gamma in the sera and spleens. Significant reduction in the number of viable Listeria in Pb-exposed mice upon IL-12 administration suggests that the processes downstream of IL-12 production were intact in the Pb-exposed mice and that the inhibition by Pb was due to the lack of functional IL-12. Alternatively, the exogenous IL-12 may have overcome a downstream effect by enhancing an secondary pathway. Support for the former hypothesis is based on the observation that Pb induced elevated levels of p40 splenic messenger RNA since increased p40 expression would result from lack of IL-12 formation. Contrary to the IFN-gamma levels, significantly higher levels of IL-6 and corticosterone were observed in the sera and spleens of Pb-exposed mice upon infection, suggesting heightened stress in the absence of IL-12. Overall, the results suggest that an environmental pollutant such as Pb can enhance the stress response, which naturally occurs during an infection, and can further compromise health by lowering host resistance by altering cytokine levels.
The acute-phase reaction is the multisystem response to acute inflammation. The central nervous system (CNS) mediates a coordinated set of autonomic, endocrine and behavioral responses that constitute the cerebral component of the acute-phase reaction. However, the mechanisms of immune signaling of the CNS remain controversial. Emerging evidence indicates that different parts of the acute-phase reaction are initiated by distinct mechanisms and in different brain regions. Cytokines produced as a result of local infections (for example, in the abdominal or thoracic cavities) might activate vagal sensory fibers, resulting in sickness behavior and fevers. Additionally, circulating immune stimuli might activate meningeal macrophages and perivascular microglia along the borders of the brain, eliciting the local production of prostaglandins and responses such as fever, anorexia, sleepiness, and activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. The biological importance of these responses might favor the existence of multiple parallel CNS pathways that are engaged by cytokines.


In recent years, the existence of visual variants of Alzheimer's disease characterized by atypical clinical presentation at onset has been increasingly recognized. In many of these cases post-mortem neuropathological assessment revealed that correlations could be established between clinical symptoms and the distribution of neurodegenerative lesions. We have analyzed a series of Alzheimer's disease patients presenting with prominent visual symptomatology as a cardinal sign of the disease. In these cases, a shift in the distribution of pathological lesions was observed such that the primary visual areas and certain visual association areas within the occipito-parieto-temporal junction and posterior cingulate cortex had very high densities of lesions, whereas the prefrontal cortex had fewer lesions than usually observed in Alzheimer's disease. Previous quantitative analyses have demonstrated that in Alzheimer's disease, primary sensory and motor cortical areas are less damaged than the multimodal association areas of the frontal and temporal lobes, as indicated by the laminar and regional distribution patterns of neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques. The distribution of pathological lesions in the cerebral cortex of Alzheimer's disease cases with visual symptomatology revealed that specific visual association pathways were disrupted, whereas these particular connections are likely to be affected to a less severe degree in the more common form of Alzheimer's disease. These data suggest that in some cases with visual variants of Alzheimer's disease, the neurological symptomatology may be related to the loss of certain components of the cortical visual pathways, as reflected by the particular distribution of the neuropathological markers of the disease.
We studied 11 patients with transient global amnesia (TGA) and ten patients with functional retrograde amnesia (FRA). Patients with TGA had a uniform clinical picture: a severe, relatively isolated amnesic syndrome that started suddenly, persisted for 4-12 h, and then gradually improved to essentially normal over the next 12-24 h. During the episode, the patients had severe anterograde amnesia for verbal and non-verbal material and retrograde amnesia that typically covered at least two decades. Thirty hours to 42 days after the episode, the patients had recovered completely and performed normally on tests of anterograde and retrograde amnesia. By contrast, patients with FRA had a sudden onset of memory problems that were characterized by severe retrograde amnesia without associated anterograde amnesia and with a clinical presentation that otherwise varied considerably. The episodes persisted from several weeks to more than two years, and some of the patients had not recovered at the time of our last contact with them. The uniform clinical picture of TGA and the variable clinical picture of FRA presumably reflect their respective neurologic ('organic') and psychogenic ('non-organic') aetiologies.
The study of memory has long been dominated by the structural tradition, and especially by the experimental analysis of mechanisms of information processing. That dominance may soon be brought to an end by the progress of neuroscience, which offers more direct ways of studying the mechanisms in question. At that point functional issues may move to centre stage. Those issues include the act of remembering and its social functions, the skills and presuppositions of the remembered, the interaction of those skills and presuppositions with the particular material being remembered, and the determinants of accuracy and confabulation in recall.
Cognitive neuroscience approaches to memory attempt to elucidate the brain processes and systems that are involved in different forms of memory and learning. This paper examines recent research from brain-damaged patients and neuroimaging studies that bears on the distinction between explicit and implicit forms of memory. Explicit memory refers to conscious recollection of previous experiences, whereas implicit memory refers to the non-conscious effects of past experiences on subsequent performance and behaviour. Converging evidence suggests that an implicit form of memory known as priming is associated with changes in posterior cortical regions that are involved in perceptual processing; some of the same regions may contribute to explicit memory. The hippocampal formation and prefrontal cortex also play important roles in explicit memory. Evidence is presented from recent PET scanning studies that suggests that frontal regions are associated with intentional strategic efforts to retrieve recent experiences, whereas the hippocampal formation is associated with some aspect of the actual recollection of an event.
The complete spectrum of clinical phenotypes resulting from glucocerebrosidase deficiency continues to evolve. While most patients with Gaucher disease have residual glucocerebrosidase activity, we describe a fetus with severe prenatal lethal type 2 (acute neuronopathic) Gaucher disease lacking glucocerebrosidase activity. This 22-week fetus was the result of a first cousin marriage and had hydrops, external abnormalities, hepatosplenomegaly, and Gaucher cells in several organs. Fetal fibroblast DNA was screened for common Gaucher mutations, none of which was detected. Southern blot analysis using the restriction enzymes SstII and SspI ruled out a fusion gene, deletion, or duplication of either allele, and quantitative studies of SspI digested genomic DNA indicated that both alleles were present. Northern blot analysis of total RNA from fetal fibroblasts demonstrated no detectable transcription, although RT-PCR successfully amplified several exons, suggesting the presence of a very unstable mRNA. Direct PCR sequencing of all exons demonstrated a homozygous frameshift mutation (deletion of a C) on codon 139 in exon 5, thereby introducing a premature termination codon in exon 6. The absence of glucocerebrosidase protein was confirmed by Western analysis. This unique case confirms the essential role of glucocerebrosidase in human development and, like the null allele Gaucher mouse, demonstrates the lethality of a homozygous null mutation. The presence of this novel mutation and the resulting unstable mRNA accounts for the severity of the phenotype observed in this fetus, and contributes to the understanding of genotype/phenotype correlation in Gaucher disease.
The dopaminergic neurotoxin N-methyl,4-phenyl-1,2,3,6 tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) causes a syndrome in primates and humans which mimics Parkinson's disease (PD) in clinical, pathological, and biochemical findings, including diminished activity of complex I in the mitochondrial electron transport chain. Reduced complex I activity is found in sporadic PD and can be transferred through mitochondrial DNA, suggesting a mitochondrial genetic etiology. We now show that MPTP treatment of mice and N-methylpyridinium (MPP+) exposure of human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells increases oxygen free radical production and antioxidant enzyme activities. Cybrid cells created by transfer of PD mitochondria exhibit similar characteristics; however, PD cybrids' antioxidant enzyme activities are not further increased by MPP+ exposure, as are the activities in control cybrids. PD mitochondrial cybrids are subject to metabolic and oxidative stresses similar to MPTP parkinsonism and provide a model to determine mechanisms of oxidative damage and cell death in PD.
The light green cells (LGCs) in the central nervous system of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis form a homogeneous group of neuroendocrine cells that are involved in the control of growth and metabolism. These cells are inhibited by dopamine and the neuropeptides APGWamide, FMRFamide and GGSLFRFamide. Thus, the LGCs form an endogenous system in which processing and integration of different inputs into a physiological response can be studied. In this study we characterize the current(s) that are responsible for the inhibition of the LGCs by dopamine, APGWamide, FMRFamide and GGSLFRFamide. The responses are G-protein dependent, as follows from experiments with GTP-gamma-S. Several experiments indicate that the four agonists activate a single type of potassium channel. First, the currents evoked by the agonists have the same ion selectivity and voltage dependence. Potassium is the predominant charge carrier and the responses are weakly voltage sensitive, with conductance decreasing at potentials below approximately - 100 mV. Second, the currents activated by the four agonists display similar sensitivity towards several blockers. Internal and external TEA (10 mM), and extracellular Ba2+ (1 mM) cause a block of approximately 60-90%. External 4AP (1 mM) causes approximately 30% block and external Cs+ (1 mM) causes a voltage sensitive block. There is no sensitivity towards apamine and glibenclamide. Third, there is no summation of the responses to dopamine, APGWamide and GGSLFRFamide with maximal FMRFamide responses. Together, these data indicate that the responses induced by dopamine, APGWamide, FMRFamide and GGSLFRFamide are G-protein mediated and converge onto a single type of potassium channel in the LGCs of Lymnaea stagnalis.
The cause of dopaminergic neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease remains unclear, but may involve both oxidative stress and mitochondrial complex I inhibition. We have demonstrated that complex I inhibitors, including rotenone, MPP+, isoquinoline and tetrahydroisoquinoline, induce apoptosis in PC12 and SK-N-MC dopaminergic cell lines which was decreased by pretreatment with N-acetylcysteine, TEMPO, dihydrolipoic acid or pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate. These results indicate that the pathway leading to apoptosis following complex I inhibition involves free radical generation. The free radical generation may result directly from inhibition of the mitochondrial respiratory chain or indirectly during the apoptotic process itself. This has important implications for our understanding of the relationship between complex I deficiency and oxidative stress and neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease.
The sympathetic innervation of sweat glands undergoes a target-induced noradrenergic to cholinergic/peptidergic switch during development. Similar changes are induced in cultured sympathetic neurons by sweat gland cells or by one of the following cytokines: leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), or cardiotrophin-1 (CT-1). None of these is the sweat gland-derived differentiation activity. LIF, CNTF, and CT-1 act through the known receptors LIF receptor beta (LIFRbeta) and gp130 and well defined signaling pathways including receptor phosphorylation and STAT3 activation. Therefore, to determine whether the gland-derived differentiation activity was a member of the LIF/CNTF cytokine family, we tested whether it acted via these same receptors and signal cascades. Blockade of LIFRbeta inhibited the sweat gland differentiation activity in neuron/gland co-cultures, and extracts of gland-containing footpads stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of LIFRbeta and gp130. An inhibitor (CGX) of molecules that bind the CNTFRalpha, which is required for CNTF signaling, did not affect the gland-derived differentiation activity. Soluble footpad extracts induced the same changes in NBFL neuroblastoma cells as LIF and CNTF, including increased vasoactive intestinal peptide mRNA, STAT3 dimerization, and DNA binding, and stimulation of transcription from the vasoactive intestinal peptide cytokine-responsive element. Thus, the sweat gland-derived differentiation activity uses the same signaling pathway as the neuropoietic cytokines, and is likely to be a family member.
We assessed the reliability of an interactive 3-dimensional methodology for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain tissue segmentation and volumetry using a 3-dimensional magnetization prepared rapid gradient echo pulse sequence (3D MP-RAGE). The methodology was intended to be practically useful to study structural brain changes in larger groups of patients investigated for suspected dementia. The pulse sequence combines volume acquisition, excellent tissue contrast and short patient scan-time. The volumetric method is fully interactive, requiring a minimum of image pre-processing. Ten healthy controls and 10 patients with dementia were included in the study. Six healthy controls were scanned twice. The method is based on thresholding combined with manual tracing in a 3D volume. The 3-dimensional measurement method reduces the measurement time considerably compared to that of slice by slice measurement and permits 3-dimensional display of measured volumes. For different brain regions the intra-study (0.5-1.3%), study-study (1.8-4.7%) and inter-operator (7.1%) variability of this method compared favourably with other manual or automated methods reported. The major advantages of the method are its simplicity and speed, which permits measurement and display of regional brain volumes and tissues in larger patient groups.
Tobacco use in developed countries is estimated to be the single largest cause of premature death. Nicotine is the primary component of tobacco that drives use, and like other addictive drugs, nicotine reinforces self-administration and place preference in animal studies. Midbrain dopamine neurons normally help to shape behaviour by reinforcing biologically rewarding events, but addictive drugs such as cocaine can inappropriately exert a reinforcing influence by acting upon the mesolimbic dopamine system. Here we show that the same concentration of nicotine achieved by smokers activates and desensitizes multiple nicotinic receptors thereby regulating the activity of mesolimbic dopamine neurons. Initial application of nicotine can increase the activity of the dopamine neurons, which could mediate the rewarding aspects of tobacco use. Prolonged exposure to even these low concentrations of nicotine, however, can cause desensitization of the nicotinic receptors, which helps to explain acute tolerance to nicotine's effects. The effects suggest a cellular basis for reports that the first cigarette of the day is the most pleasurable, whereas the effect of subsequent cigarettes may depend on the interplay between activation and desensitization of multiple nicotinic receptors.
Mutations in the presenilin 1 (PS1) and presenilin 2 (PS2) genes are associated with early-onset autosomal dominant familial Alzheimer's disease, and the gene products are endoproteolytically processed to yield N-terminal fragments (NTF) and C-terminal fragments (CTF). We have studied the cleavage site of the PS2 protein in stably transfected human neuroblastoma cells. The 23 kD PS2-CTF was isolated by a combination of anion exchange chromatography and affinity chromatography and directly sequenced. The N-terminus of the PS2-CTF started at residue 307, which indicated that the cleavage occurs between Lys306 and Leu307 in the proximal portion of the large hydrophilic loop. This site is close to the cleavage positions observed in the PS1 protein.
The binding of monomeric (Hp) and oligomeric (PHE) forms of porphyrin to glioblastoma (U-87MG) cells and the photosensitization of these cells have been studied. Upon binding to U-87MG cells, Hp and PHE exhibited fluorescence bands at 615 and 636 nm, respectively. The fluorescence and absorption spectra of Hp, HpD and PHE, measured in different solvents, suggest that the 615 nm band may arise due to the binding of monomeric as well as aggregated forms of porphyrin to the hydrophilic sites in the cells whereas the 636 nm band may be due to the binding of an aggregated form of porphyrin to the hydrophobic sites. The photosensitivity of cells and photo-induced lipid peroxidation were measured as a function of light dose. Cells were found most photosensitive to PHE followed by HpD and Hp. The photosensitivity of cells correlates well with the fluorescence intensity of cell bound dye at 636 nm. These results suggest that the binding of the oligomeric component of HpD to hydrophobic sites in the cells is responsible for the enhancement in the photosensitivity.
The effect of hypericin, an antiviral drug and a potent protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, on glioma cell invasion was investigated in vitro. Treatment of the established human glioblastoma cell line, T98G, with 1 microM hypericin for 24 h resulted in a significant inhibition of the cell invasion through an artificial basement membrane, but not cell attachment or proliferation. Furthermore, tamoxifen and staurosporine, both PKC inhibitors, also inhibited T98G cell invasion, suggesting that PKC may be the cellular target for hypericin-inhibited glioma cell migration. Similarly, hypericin decreased cell motility significantly in established lines, T98G and U87-MG, and also in a low-passage human malignant glioma cell line. Thus, hypericin may prove useful for studying mechanisms of glioma invasion, and may represent a new agent in malignant glioma therapy.
We have monitored the cell surface phenotypic changes occurring in T, B and NK cells of chronic progressive multiple sclerosis (MS) patients after total lymphoid irradiation (TLI) plus low-dose prednisone (TLI-LDP) therapy in comparison to sham TLI-LDP. TLI-LDP resulted in a marked reduction in the relative and absolute number of total CD3+ T cells, CD4+ helper T cells, CD4+ CD45RA+ naive T cells and CD19+ B cells for at least 1 year after treatment. No change occurred in the percent CD8+ T cells although the number of these cells declined after radiotherapy. The CD4/CD8 T cell ratio was also decreased. The relative percent of CD16+ NK cells increased steadily after TLI-LDP while the number of NK cells transiently declined but returned to baseline values 1 year later. An increase in the percent of CD2+ CD3- cells and a decrease in their number after therapy was also observed. In contrast, no significant changes in the number of T, B or NK cells were seen in the MS patients receiving sham TLI-LDP. These results provide further evidence that radiotherapy causes a reduction of immunocompetent T and B cells and that a population of possibly NK cells and/or immature T cells appears to be repopulating the circulation after TLI. In addition, a correlation was observed between alterations in lymphocyte populations and the presence or absence of contrast enhancing or new T2 lesions on brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the TLI-LDP treated MS patients. Patients devoid of contrast enhancing or new T2 lesions had a decreased percentage of CD3+ and CD4+ T cells prior to therapy and at six months following TLI-LDP compared to patients with such lesions. An association was also observed between stability in disease activity as determined on the Expanded Disability Status Scale and relative values of CD3 T cells.
In a double-blind prospective randomized trial, we assessed the efficacy and safety of modified total lymphoid irradiation (TLI) plus low dose prednisone (TLI-LDP) as compared to sham TLI plus identical prednisone therapy (sham TLI-LDP) in 46 patients with progressive forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). No significant difference existed between groups at study entry in patient age, sex, duration of MS, or disability status. However, following treatment, significantly fewer TLI patients showed a sustained one point decline in the Expanded Disability Status Scale, the primary study endpoint, as compared to the sham TLI group using the Kaplan-Meier Product-limit survival analysis, (P&lt;0.005). Risk for relapse requiring treatment with intravenous methylprednisolone was reduced by 54% in the TLI-treated group (P&lt;0.05). Significantly fewer TLI-LDP patients had gadolinium enhancing plus new T2-weighted lesions (P=0.018) when compared to the sham group post-treatment. There was also a substantial and significant decrease in blood lymphocytes in the TLI-LDP group when compared to either pretreatment values or to sham TLI-LDP through at least 12 months post-therapy. Side effects secondary to TLI were generally mild and well-tolerated. These results further support the hypothesis that TLI and systemic immunosuppression have a beneficial effect in progressive forms of MS.
The mesencephalic dopaminergic (mesDA) system regulates behavior and movement control and has been implicated in psychiatric and affective disorders. We have identified a bicoid-related homeobox gene, Ptx3, a member of the Ptx-subfamily, that is uniquely expressed in these neurons. Its expression starting at E11.5 in the developing mouse midbrain correlates with the appearance of mesDA neurons. The number of Ptx3-expressing neurons is reduced in Parkinson patients, and these neurons are absent from 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, an animal model for this disease. Thus, Ptx3 is a unique transcription factor marking the mesDA neurons at the exclusion of other dopaminergic neurons, and it may be involved in developmental determination of this neuronal lineage.
The major contribution of this paper is the finding of a glycolytic source of ATP in the isolated postsynaptic density (PSD). The enzymes involved in the generation of ATP are glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3PD) and phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK). Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) is available for the regeneration of NAD+, as well as aldolase for the regeneration of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (G3P). The ATP was shown to be used by the PSD Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase and can probably be used by two other PSD kinases, protein kinase A and protein kinase C. We confirmed by immunocytochemistry the presence of G3PD in the PSD and its binding to actin. Also present in the PSD is NO synthase, the source of NO. NO increases the binding of NAD, a G3PD cofactor, to G3PD and inhibits its activity as also found by others. The increased NAD binding resulted in an increase in G3PD binding to actin. We confirmed the autophosphorylation of G3PD by ATP, and further found that this procedure also increased the binding of G3PD to actin. ATP and NO are connected in that the formation of NO from NOS at the PSD resulted, in the presence of NAD, in a decrease of ATP formation in the PSD. In the discussion, we raise the possible roles of G3PD and of ATP in protein synthesis at the PSD, the regulation by NO, as well as the overall regulatory role of the PSD complex in synaptic transmission.
Using autoradiographic binding methodology with monoiodinated peptide YY together with the agonists neuropeptide Y (NPY) and NPY (13-36), as well as in situ hybridization with oligonucleotide probes complementary to the NPY Y2 receptor (Y2-R) mRNA, we have studied whether or not intracerebral prion inoculation affects Y2-Rs in male CD-1 mice. Monoiodinated peptide YY binding, mainly representing Y2-Rs, was down-regulated by 85% in the CA1 strata oriens and radiatum and by 50-65% in the CA3 stratum oriens 110-140 days postinoculation. In the CA3 stratum radiatum, where the mossy fibers from the dentate granule cells project, there was a significant decrease in PYY binding at 110-120 days. Y2-R mRNA, moderately expressed both in the CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cell layers and the granule cell layer in the dentate gyrus, showed a slight, but not significant, decrease in CA3 neurons 130 days postinoculation. The results indicate that the accumulation of the scrapie prion protein in the CA1-3 region strongly inhibits NPY binding at the Y2-Rs, which, however, is only marginally due to reduced Y2-R mRNA expression. The loss of the ability of NPY to bind to inhibitory Y2-Rs may cause dysfunction of hippocampal circuits and may contribute to the clinical symptoms in mouse scrapie.
The effect of three peptides, galanin, sulfated cholecystokinin octapeptide, and neurotensin (NT), was studied on acutely extirpated rat dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) in vitro with intracellular recording techniques. Both normal and peripherally axotomized DRGs were analyzed, and recordings were made from C-type (small) and A-type (large) neurons. Galanin and sulfated cholecystokinin octapeptide, with one exception, had no effect on normal C- and A-type neurons but caused an inward current in both types of neurons after sciatic nerve cut. In normal rats, NT caused an outward current in C-type neurons and an inward current in A-type neurons. After sciatic nerve cut, NT only caused an inward current in both C- and A-type neurons. These results suggest that (i) normal DRG neurons express receptors on their soma for some but not all peptides studied, (ii) C- and A-type neurons can have different types of receptors, and (iii) peripheral nerve injury can change the receptor phenotype of both C- and A-type neurons and may have differential effects on these neuron types.
Different cDNA clones encoding a rat homeobox gene and the mouse homologue OG-12 were cloned from adult rat brain and mouse embryo mRNA, respectively. The predicted amino acid sequences of the proteins belong to the paired-related subfamily of homeodomain proteins (Prx homeodomains). Hence, the gene was named Prx3 and the mouse and rat genes are indicated as mPrx3 and rPrx3, respectively. In the mouse as well as in the rat, the predicted Prx3 proteins share the homeodomain but have three different N termini, a 12-aa residue variation in the C terminus, and contain a 14-aa residue motif common to a subset of homeodomain proteins, termed the &quot;aristaless domain.&quot; Genetic mapping of Prx3 in the mouse placed this gene on chromosome 3. In situ hybridization on whole mount 12.5-day-old mouse embryos and sections of rat embryos at 14.5 and 16.5 days postcoitum revealed marked neural expression in discrete regions in the lateral and medial geniculate complex, superior and inferior colliculus, the superficial gray layer of the superior colliculus, pontine reticular formation, and inferior olive. In rat and mouse embryos, nonneuronal structures around the oral cavity and in hip and shoulder regions also expressed the Prx3 gene. In the adult rat brain, Prx3 gene expression was restricted to thalamic, tectal, and brainstem structures that include relay nuclei of the visual and auditory systems as well as other ascending systems conveying somatosensory information. Prx3 may have a role in specifying neural systems involved in processing somatosensory information, as well as in face and body structure formation.
Computational neuroscience has contributed significantly to our understanding of higher brain function by combining experimental neurobiology, psychophysics, modeling, and mathematical analysis. This article reviews recent advances in a key area: neural coding and information processing. It is shown that synapses are capable of supporting computations based on highly structured temporal codes. Such codes could provide a substrate for unambiguous representations of complex stimuli and be used to solve difficult cognitive tasks, such as the binding problem. Unsupervised learning rules could generate the circuitry required for precise temporal codes. Together, these results indicate that neural systems perform a rich repertoire of computations based on action potential timing.
The upper esophageal sphincter (UES) is composed of the cricopharyngeus (CP), thyropharyngeus (TP; inferior pharyngeal constrictor [IPC] in humans), and cranial cervical esophagus. All 3 muscles may at times function to maintain tone in the UES, but only the CP contracts and relaxes in all physiologic states consistent with the UES. The CP is a striated muscle composed of variable-sized small (25-35 microm) muscle fibers that are primarily type I (slow twitch), highly oxidative, and contain abundant (40%) endomysial elastic connective tissue. The fibers may attach to the connective tissue framework, forming a muscular net. In humans and rats, but not other animals, the CP has no median raphe. The optimum length of the CP for development of active tension is about 1.7 times resting length; therefore, in some respects the CP acts more like cardiac than striated muscle. A passive tone in the CP is present and increases through all degrees of stretch. The high compliance of the CP allows it to be opened by distraction of other muscles (e.g., geniohyoideus) or increased intraluminal pressure. The CP is innervated by branches of the vagus nerves: pharyngoesophageal (PE), superior laryngeal (SLN), and recurrent laryngeal (RLN); glossopharyngeal (GPN); and cervical sympathetics. Only the PE and SLN provide motor fibers to the CP. The GLN may be sensory; the sympathetics may innervate the mucosa, blood vessels, and glands; but no functional innervation by the RLN has been identified. Parasympathetic ganglia and various peptides (galanin, cGRP, VIP, neuropeptide Y, substance P, tyrosine hydroxylase) have been found in the CP, but their role in control of the CP is unknown. The motoneurons of the CP are found in the nucleus ambiguus, and the innervation is ipsilateral for animal species in which the CP has a median raphe. These motoneurons are topographically organized with other pharyngeal and laryngeal muscles and the striated muscle esophagus. Pharyngeal motoneurons often have a respiratory rhythm, but not a spontaneous background discharge. Therefore, the CP motoneurons may not generate CP tone. Various reflexes control the tone of the CP. Distension of the esophagus causes contraction of the CP and UES, which is mediated by a vago-vagal reflex. Pressure on the pharyngeal mucosa contracts the CP and UES and is mediated by a glossopharyngo-vagal reflex. Inflation of the lungs causes contraction of the CP and UES, which is mediated by a vago-vagal reflex. The pharyngo-UES and pulmonary-UES reflexes may generate the respiratory rhythm often observed on UES pressure or electromyographic activity. The UES or CP also contracts with arousal or with changes in posture. All of these reflexes and responses and the passive elastic properties of the CP may contribute to the generation of tone in the CP and UES.
Primary peristalsis of the esophagus is initiated by the act of swallowing. Control of the orderly contraction must take into account coordination of the activity in the esophageal body with the sphincters at either end, integration of activity between the striated and smooth muscle portions of the esophagus, and the central and peripheral neural and muscular control mechanisms present. Peristalsis in the striated section is directed by sequential vagal excitation arising in a brainstem &quot;Central Program Generator.&quot; Peristalsis in the smooth muscle section involves the interaction of central and peripheral neural mechanisms and probably the interaction between these neural mechanisms and smooth muscle properties. Coordination of activity between the striated and smooth muscle portions has similar multifaceted neural and mechanical components. In the smooth muscle, 2 main neural mechanisms, a cholinergic excitatory one and a nonadrenergic, noncholinergic (NANC) inhibitory one interact together and with central and local influences to regulate the amplitude, velocity, and direction of propagation of the peristaltic contraction.

The authors analyzed the pattern of neurogenesis, the time frame of cell movement, and the cell cycle kinetics of a population of stem cells located in the outer nuclear layer in the retina of the adult teleost Haplochromis burtoni. These stem cells continue to give rise to new rod photoreceptors throughout life. The new rods move vitread after the last cell division. The authors investigated events during cell division and cell differentiation by using one marker that labels dividing cells transiently (proliferating cell nuclear antigen) along with another marker that labels dividing cells permanently (bromodeoxyuridine). The bulk of cell movement does not occur within 24 hours after S-phase labeling but is clearly underway 12 hours later, shortly after mitosis. The cell cycle length was estimated to be approximately 25 hours. The distribution of labeled cells at various times after S-phase suggests that new rods are generated by asymmetric cell division, that is, one of the daughter cells moves after mitosis and becomes postmitotic, while the other daughter cell remains in place and reenters the cell cycle. The proliferation patterns across the retina suggest that the location of areas of mitotic activity changes over time. The authors hypothesize that local extracellular factors control the rate of cell division in a given area, thereby keeping the overall rod density constant.
In this study, seizures in the dentate gyrus were triggered by 2 Hz electrical stimulation while, at the same time, serial changes in paired-pulse depression was measured in free-moving rats. The perforant path was stimulated by paired pulses 25 ms apart and recordings were made in the dentate gyrus. We also observed the effect of kindling procedure on this change of evoked field potential. Paired-pulse depression started to fail following the onset of epileptic afterdischarge, both before and after kindling. As kindling progressed, paired-pulse depression increased in the initial part of the stimulus train, and also the time delay from the start of the stimulation to when paired-pulse depression started to fail increased significantly. These findings suggest that the collapse of local early, presumably GABAA-mediated, inhibition may occur after the dentate gyrus seizure onset and development of kindling epileptogenesis does not weaken but, on the contrary, enhances this local inhibitory function. Finally we propose that seizures triggered by 2 Hz electrical stimulation constitutes a useful model for examining physiological or biochemical changes during seizure initiation of awake, free-moving animals since it provides long (usually several seconds or more) latency from the start of stimulation to seizure onset.
In mice lacking the nociceptin (or orphanin FQ) receptor gene, when 10 mg/kg of morphine was subcutaneously given, a potent analgesia in the tail pinch test was observed. The analgesic effect of morphine was equivalent among wild-type, heterozygous and homozygous mutant mice. When morphine was given to such mice in a dose of 10 mg/kg once per day for 5 days, wild-type and heterozygous mice showed marked tolerance or reduction in the morphine analgesia on the 5th day, while homozygous mice showed only 50% reduction in the peripheral analgesia of morphine. These findings suggest that nociceptin or its receptor plays important roles in the in vivo mechanism for the development of morphine tolerance.
We studied the characterization of receptor-mediated G protein activity by nociceptin throughout brain regions, using in situ GTPgammaS binding autoradiography. Nociceptin-stimulated GTPgammaS binding was markedly observed in amygdala, hippocampal pyramidal cell layers, temporal and entorhinal cortex, infralimbic organ, anterior olfactory nucleus, and rostral part of thalamus. These nociceptin-stimulated activities were not affected by naloxone, naltrindol nor norbinaltorphimine which completely blocked mu-, delta- or kappa-opioid agonist-stimulated GTPgammaS binding, respectively. In addition, the distribution of nociceptin-stimulated activities throughout brain regions was found to be different from such opioid receptor-mediated ones.
Using in situ hybridization, we studied galanin-R2 receptor (GAL-R2-R) mRNA in rat lumbar 5 dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) at different time points after peripheral tissue inflammation and sciatic nerve transection (axotomy). About 25% of all normal DRG neuron profiles were GAL-R2-R mRNA-positive, and the majority was of the small type. In normal DRGs GAL-R2-R mRNA often (approximately 80%) colocalized with CGRP mRNA and sometimes (approximately 20%) with GAL-R1-R mRNA. There was a strong increase in the number and labeling intensity of GAL-R2-R mRNA-positive neuron profiles after peripheral tissue inflammation with a peak at 3 days, as well as a long-lasting decrease after axotomy. These results, together with the previously shown regulation of GAL and the GAL-R1-R, suggest that GALergic mechanisms participate in complex adaptive responses in DRGs after inflammation and nerve injury.
Estrogens are implicated in the regulation of neuronal cell death and survival in the nervous system. However, the molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. Here, we investigated effects of estrogens and an anti-estrogen compound, tamoxifen (TMX), on the death/survival of GT1-7 hypothalamic neuronal cells. Endogenous nuclear estrogen receptors (ERs) in these cells were found to be inactive on the basis of luciferase assay. Treatment of cells with TMX stimulated cell death, which was associated with DNA ladder formation characteristic of apoptosis. Both 17-beta estradiol, which stimulates ER-mediated transcription, and 17-alpha estradiol, which does not, had little effect on cell survival. Both estradiols, however, significantly potentiated TMX-induced cell death. Similar effects were obtained by estriol, but more remarkable effects were observed by quinestrol, an ethinyl estradiol derivative, which has an ether-modification at the C3 position. Furthermore, either TPA or forskolin, a potent stimulator of protein kinase C or A, respectively, also stimulated TMX-induced cell death. Taken together, these results may suggest that genomic activity through ERs is not prerequisite for estrogen stimulation of TMX-induced apoptosis, but that the cell death pathway of TMX could be modulated at the cytoplasmic level by estrogens, whose activity is dependent upon their molecular structure.
Prosaposin, the precursor of sphingolipid activator protein (saposins A-D), has been identified as a neurotrophic factor capable of inducing neural differentiation and preventing cell death. The putative prosaposin receptor was partially purified from baboon brain membranes by affinity chromatography using a saposin C-column. The purified preparation gave a single major protein band with an apparent molecular weight of 54 kDa on SDS-PAGE. Affinity cross-linking of 11 kDa 125I-saposin C demonstrated the presence of a 66 kDa product, indicative of an apparent molecular weight of 55 kDa for the receptor. A GTP gamma S-binding assay using cell membranes from SHSY5Y neural cells demonstrated agonist stimulated binding of [35S]-GTP gamma S upon treatment with prosaptide TX14(A) a peptide from the neurotrophic region; maximal binding was obtained at 2 nM. TX14(A) stimulated binding was abolished by prior treatment of SHSY5Y cells with pertussis toxin and by a scrambled and an all D-amino acid-derivative of the 14-mer. A 14-mer mutant prosaptide (6N--&gt;6D) competed with TX14(A) with a Ki of 0.7 nM. Immunoblot analysis using an antibody against the G0 alpha subunit demonstrated that the purified receptor preparation contained a 40 kDa reactive band consistent with association of G0 alpha and the receptor. These findings indicate that the signaling induced by prosaposin and TX14(A) is generated by binding to a G0-protein associated receptor.
In this report, we establish a regulatory role of natural killer (NK) cells in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a prototype T helper cell type 1 (Th1)-mediated disease. Active sensitization of C57BL/6 (B6) mice with the myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)35-55 peptide induces a mild form of monophasic EAE. When mice were deprived of NK cells by antibody treatment before immunization, they developed a more serious form of EAE associated with relapse. Aggravation of EAE by NK cell deletion was also seen in beta 2-microglobulin-/- (beta 2m-/-) mice, indicating that NK cells can play a regulatory role in a manner independent of CD8+ T cells or NK1.1+ T cells (NK-T cells). The disease enhancement was associated with augmentation of T cell proliferation and production of Th1 cytokines in response to MOG35-55. EAE passively induced by the MOG35-55-specific T cell line was also enhanced by NK cell deletion in B6, beta 2m-/-, and recombination activation gene 2 (RAG-2)-/- mice, indicating that the regulation by NK cells can be independent of T, B, or NK-T cells. We further showed that NK cells inhibit T cell proliferation triggered by antigen or cytokine stimulation. Taken together, we conclude that NK cells are an important regulator for EAE in both induction and effector phases.
The neural velocity to position integrators transform the saccade related signal of the burst generators into an eye position related tonic signal they convey to motoneurons. They are largely confined to three heavily interconnected midbrain structures: 1) The interstitial nucleus of Cajal (NIC), 2) The nucleus prepositus hypoglossi (NPH), 3) The vestibular nuclei (VN). Integration in the horizontal and vertical planes is accomplished largely independently by the NPH-VN and the NIC-VN complexes, respectively. Cells in these regions carry a more or less intense phasic signal related to saccades and a tonic signal related to eye position. Depending on the relationship between the rate of their discharge and the position of the eyes, these cells have been further subdivided into regular or irregular, more or less sensitive, and bi-directionally or uni-directionally modulated. The present review provides a brief description of their discharge pattern and that of burst neurons and extraocular motoneurons. Then, evidence concerning the input-output connections of relevant cell classes is summarized. Finally, several modelling attempts to simulate the neural velocity-to-position integrators are presented and their verisimilitude is evaluated in the light of psychophysical, anatomical, physiological and neurological evidence.
Crayfish escape from threats by either giant neuron-mediated &quot;reflex&quot; tail flexions that occur with very little delay but do not allow for much sensory guidance of trajectory or by &quot;nongiant&quot; tail flexion responses that allow for sensory guidance but occur much less promptly. Thus, when a stimulus occurs, the nervous system must make a rapid assessment of whether to use the faster reflex system or the slower nongiant one. It does this on the basis of the abruptness of stimulus onset; only stimuli of very abrupt onset trigger giant-mediated responses. We report here that stimuli which excite the lateral giant (LG) command neurons for one form of reflex escape also produce a slightly delayed postexcitatory inhibition (PEI) of the command neurons. As a result, only stimuli that become strong enough to excite the command neurons to firing threshold before the onset of PEI, within a few milliseconds of stimulus onset, can cause giant-mediated responses. This inhibition is directed to distal dendrites of the LG neurons, which allows for some location specificity of PEI within the sensory field of a single hemisegment.
Ibogaine, an indole alkaloid that causes hallucinations, tremor, and ataxia, produces cerebellar neurotoxicity in rats, manifested by degeneration of Purkinje cells aligned in narrow parasagittal bands that are coextensive with activated glial cells. Harmaline, a closely related alkaloid that excites inferior olivary neurons, causes the same pattern of Purkinje cell degeneration, providing a clue to the mechanism of toxicity. We have proposed that ibogaine, like harmaline, excites neurons in the inferior olive, leading to sustained release of glutamate at climbing fiber synapses on Purkinje cells. The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that increased climbing fiber activity induced by ibogaine mediates excitotoxic Purkinje cell degeneration. The inferior olive was pharmacologically ablated in rats by a neurotoxic drug regimen using 3-acetylpyridine, and cerebellar damage attributed to subsequent administration of ibogaine was analyzed using immunocytochemical markers for neurons and glial cells. The results show that ibogaine administered after inferior olive ablation produced little or no Purkinje cell degeneration or glial activation. That a lesion of the inferior olive almost completely prevents the neurotoxicity demonstrates that ibogaine is not directly toxic to Purkinje cells, but that the toxicity is indirect and dependent on integrity of the olivocerebellar projection. We postulate that ibogaine-induced activation of inferior olivary neurons leads to release of glutamate simultaneously at hundreds of climbing fiber terminals distributed widely over the surface of each Purkinje cell. The unique circuitry of the olivocerebellar projection provides this system with maximum synaptic security, a feature that confers on Purkinje cells a high degree of vulnerability to excitotoxic injury.
B-50/GAP-43 is a nervous tissue-specific protein, the expression of which is associated with axon growth and regeneration. Its overexpression in transgenic mice produces spontaneous axonal sprouting and enhances induced remodeling in several neuron populations (; ). We examined the capacity of this protein to increase the regenerative potential of injured adult central axons, by inducing targeted B-50/GAP-43 overexpression in Purkinje cells, which normally show poor regenerative capabilities. Thus, transgenic mice were produced in which B-50/GAP-43 overexpression was driven by the Purkinje cell-specific L7 promoter. Uninjured transgenic Purkinje cells displayed normal morphology, indicating that transgene expression does not modify the normal phenotype of these neurons. By contrast, after axotomy numerous transgenic Purkinje cells exhibited profuse sprouting along the axon and at its severed end. Nevertheless, despite these growth phenomena, which never occurred in wild-type mice, the severed transgenic axons were not able to regenerate, either spontaneously or into embryonic neural or Schwann cell grafts placed into the lesion site. Finally, although only a moderate Purkinje cell loss occurred in wild-type cerebella after axotomy, a considerable number of injured transgenic neurons degenerated, but they could be partially rescued by the different transplants placed into the lesion site. Thus, B-50/GAP-43 overexpression substantially modifies Purkinje cell response to axotomy, by inducing growth processes and decreasing their resistance to injury. However, the presence of this protein is not sufficient to enable these neurons to accomplish a full program of axon regeneration.
Protein kinase C (PKC) potentiates NMDA receptors in hippocampal, trigeminal, and spinal neurons. Although PKC phosphorylates the NMDA receptor subunit NR1 at four residues within the C terminal splice cassette C1, the molecular mechanisms underlying PKC potentiation of NMDA responses are not yet known. The present study examined the role of Ca2+ in PKC potentiation of recombinant NMDA receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes. We found that Ca2+ influx through PKC-potentiated NMDA receptors can further increase the NMDA response (&quot;Ca2+ amplification&quot;). Ca2+ amplification required a rise in intracellular Ca2+ concentration at or near the intracellular end of the channel and was independent of Ca2+-activated Cl- current. Ca2+ amplification depended on extracellular Ca2+ concentration during NMDA application and not during PKC activation. Ca2+ amplification was reduced by the membrane-permeant Ca2+-chelating agent BAPTA-AM. Mutant receptors with greatly reduced Ca2+ permeability did not exhibit Ca2+ amplification. Receptors containing the NR1 N-terminal splice cassette showed more Ca2+ amplification, possibly because of their larger basal current and therefore greater Ca2+ influx. Contrary to expectation, splicing out the two C-terminal splice cassettes of NR1 enhanced PKC potentiation in a manner independent of extracellular Ca2+. This observation indicates that PKC potentiation does not require phosphorylation of the C1 cassette of the NR1 subunit. PKC potentiation of NMDA receptors in vivo is likely to be affected by Ca2+ amplification of the potentiated signal; the degree of amplification will depend in part on alternative splicing of the NR1 subunit, which is regulated developmentally and in a cell-specific manner.
1. We have examined the clearance of synaptically released acetylcholine in the otic ganglion when acetylcholinesterase was blocked with eserine. 2. Intracellular recordings were made from otic ganglion neurones, in vitro. The decay of the excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP), in response to stimulation of afferent fibres, was greatly prolonged in the presence of eserine. Low frequency (0.05-4 Hz) repetitive synaptic stimulation led to a slow depolarization of the postsynaptic cell that persisted throughout the period of stimulation. This slow depolarization was blocked by the nicotinic antagonists mecamylamine (100 microM) or (+)tubocurarine (100 microM), but was unaffected by atropine (1 microM), indicating that the response was due to the activation of nicotinic receptors. 3. Following 2 Hz synaptic stimulation (30 s), the rate of rise of the slow depolarization had a time constant of 3.1 +/- 0.4 s and a peak amplitude of 12 +/- 1 mV. Upon cessation of stimulation, the depolarization decayed to resting levels with a time constant of 18.3 +/- 1.5 s (n = 23). At increasing stimulation frequencies the rate of rise of the depolarization increased. Lowering the probability of release, by adding cadmium to the perfusing solution or by lowering extracellular calcium, slowed the rise time of the response. 4. Both the onset and decay kinetics of the slow depolarization had a low temperature sensitivity, indicating that they reflect diffusional processes. 5. Repetitive stimulation (2 Hz) of the afferent nerve supplying the ganglion, in the presence of eserine, also caused a slow depolarization in cell in which we could not demonstrate a synaptic input. This indicates that synaptically released acetylcholine can spill over onto nearby neurones. 6. We conclude that at parasympathetic synapses, under physiological conditions, transmitter action is terminated by the enzymatic degradation of acetylcholine. When acetylcholinesterase is blocked, acetylcholine accumulates because its removal by diffusion is slow.
1. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were obtained from sixty-five rat supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurones in brain slices to investigate ionic mechanisms underlying depolarizing after-potentials (DAPs). When cells were voltage clamped around -58 mV, slow inward currents mediating DAPs (IDAP), evoked by three brief depolarizing pulses, had a peak of 17 +/- 1 pA (mean +/- S.E.M.) and lasted for 2.8 +/- 0.1 s. 2. No significant differences in the amplitude and duration were observed when one to three preceding depolarizing pulses were applied, although there was a tendency for twin pulses to evoke larger IDAP than a single pulse. The IDAP was absent when membrane potentials were more negative than -70 mV. In the range -70 to -50 mV, IDAP amplitudes and durations increased as the membrane became more depolarized, with an activation threshold of -65.7 +/- 0.7 mV. 3. IDAP with normal amplitude and duration could be evoked during the decay of a preceding IDAP. As frequencies of depolarizing pulses rose from 2 to 20 Hz, the times to peak IDAP amplitude were reduced but the amplitudes and durations did not change. 4. A consistent reduction in membrane conductance during the IDAP was observed in all SON neurones tested, and averaged 34.6 +/- 3.3%. Small hyperpolarizing pulses used to measure membrane conductances appeared not to disturb major ionic mechanisms underlying IDAP, since the slope and duration of IDAP with and without test pulses were similar. 5. The IDAP had an averaged reversal potential of -87.4 +/- 1.6 mV, which was close to the K+ equilibrium potential. An elevation in [K+]o reduced or abolished the IDAP, and shifted its reversal potential toward more positive levels. Perifusion of slices with 7.5-10 mM TEA, a K+ channel blocker, reversibly suppressed the IDAP. 6. Both Na+ and Ca2+ currents failed to induce an IDAP-like current during perifusion of slices with media containing high [K+]o or TEA. However, the IDAP was abolished by replacing external Ca2+ with Co2+, or replacing 82% of external Na+ with choline or Li+. Perifusion of slices with media containing 1-2 microM TTX also reduced IDAP by 55.5 +/- 9.0%. 7. These results suggest that the generation of DAPs in SON neurones mainly involves a reduction in outward K+ current(s), which probably has little or no inactivation and can be inhibited by [Ca2+]i transients, due to Ca2+ influx during action potentials and Ca2+ release from internal stores. Na+ influx might provide a permissive influence for Ca(2+)-induced reduction of K+ conductances and/or help to raise [Ca2+]i via reverse-mode Ca(2+)-Na+ exchange. Other conductances, making minor contributions to the IDAP, may also be involved.
The effects of axotomy, chemical sympathectomy and preganglionic denervation on the expression of the neuropeptides, pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP), galanin (GAL), and the PACAP type 1 receptor in the rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) were investigated by immunocytochemistry, in situ hybridization and receptor autoradiography. An antibody recognizing the rat vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) was used for the detection of preganglionic cholinergic fibers. In the normal SCG, PACAP-immunoreactivity (-IR) was present in numerous, basket-forming, preganglionic nerve fibers, while very few SCG neurons expressed PACAP. GAL-IR was restricted to occasional neurons, and a few nerve fibers, most of which were, in addition, PACAP-IR. PACAP type 1 receptors were expressed in all nerve cell bodies. Axotomy resulted in a rapid and prominent upregulation of PACAP in a large number of nerve cell bodies. There was a large increase also in GAL expression in many nerve cell bodies. In contrast, there was a marked decline in PACAP type 1 receptor expression. Chemical sympathectomy by administration of the catcholaminergic neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), gave rise to similar changes. Preganglionic denervation led to the disappearance of PACAP- and VAChT-IR baskets and to the upregulation of PACAP and GAL expression in neurons located close to the entrance of the sympathetic chain, whereas PACAP type 1 receptor expression was not affected. PACAP and GAL were coexpressed in most neurons after axotomy and chemical sympathectomy. Taken together, these results indicate that disruption of target contact and/or the infliction of an injury to the axons of the sympathetic neurons, rather than the preganglionic output, regulates the expression of PACAP, GAL and the PACAP type 1 receptor.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), a regulatory peptide belonging to the vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) family, is widely distributed in the central and peripheral nervous system. Recent studies have shown that PACAP expression is upregulated in sensory neurons in response to axonal injury. Here we report that PACAP and PACAP type 1 receptors are located in rat and mouse superior cervical ganglia (SCG). PACAP-immunoreactivity (-IR) was demonstrated in preganglionic fibers, whereas only occasional PACAP-IR cell bodies could be observed. In situ hybridization histochemistry using 35S-labeled deoxyribonucleotide probes confirmed that PACAP mRNA was present only in occasional cell bodies. In contrast, PACAP type 1 receptor mRNA was expressed in virtually all cell bodies within the ganglia. After removal and culturing of the SCG for 24 h, there was a marked increase in PACAP mRNA, whilst PACAP type 1 receptor mRNA expression appeared to be downregulated in most nerve cell bodies except for a few scattered neurons displaying a strong upregulation. The total specific binding of PACAP to isolated SCG membranes as assayed by [125I]PACAP-27 binding showed an increase in SCG cultured for 48 h. PACAP-27 neither affected axonal outgrowth from the cultured SCG nor the survival of cells within the SCG. We conclude that PACAP and PACAP receptors are rapidly upregulated in sympathetic ganglia in response to axonal injury and that PACAP may play a role during nerve regeneration.
The distribution of ryanodine receptor (RyR) isoforms was examined using isoform-specific monoclonal antibodies in the developing chicken brain, from E18 through adulthood, using light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry. Monoclonal antibody 110F is specific for the alpha-skeletal muscle form of RyR, while monoclonal antibody 110E recognizes both the beta-skeletal muscle and cardiac isoforms, but does not distinguish between the two. Significant differences in the distribution of the alpha- and beta/cardiac forms were observed. Labeling for the alpha-form was restricted to cerebellar Purkinje neurons while the beta/cardiac form was observed in neurons throughout the brain. A major finding was the presence of labeling for the beta/cardiac in presynaptic terminals of the parallel fibers in the molecular layer and the mossy fiber terminals in the granular layer glomeruli in late development and during adulthood. Labeling for the beta/cardiac, but not the alpha-form, underwent a major redistribution in the cerebellum during the course of development. At 1 day of age, beta/cardiac labeling was present mainly in Purkinje neurons. From 1 day to 4 weeks, immunolabeling for the beta/cardiac form gradually disappeared from Purkinje neurons, but increased in granule cells. Within the molecular layer, the labeling pattern changed from being primarily within Purkinje dendrites to a more diffuse pattern. Electron microscopic examination of the cerebellar molecular layer of 2-week-old chicks revealed that beta/cardiac-labeling was mainly present in the axons and presynaptic processes of the parallel fibers. No developmental changes were observed in other brain regions. This study represents the first demonstration of ryanodine receptor immunoreactivity in presynaptic boutons and suggests that the ryanodine receptor may modulate neurotransmitter release through local regulation of intracellular calcium in the parallel fiber synapse.
The cytokine, interleukin (IL)-15, and the T cell growth factor, IL-2, exhibit a similar spectrum of immune effects and share the IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) subunits IL-2Rbeta and IL-2Rgamma for signaling in hematopoietic cells. Numerous neuroregulatory activities of IL-2 have been suggested, but its expression in the normal central nervous system (CNS) is apparently very low and regionally restricted. We show by RNA and protein detection that IL-15, its specific receptor molecule, IL-15Ralpha, and the signal-transducing receptor subunits, IL-2Rbeta and IL-2Rgamma, are constitutively present in various regions of the developing and adult mouse brain. We further demonstrate, also at the single-cell level, that IL-15 and the components for IL-15Ralpha/IL-2Rbetagamma receptors are expressed by microglia. Tyrosine phosphorylation data are presented showing that IL-15 signaling in microglia involves Janus kinase 1 activity. At doses of 0.1-10 ng/ml, IL-15 affected functional properties of these cells, such as the production of nitric oxide, and supported their growth in culture, suggestive of a role as an autocrine growth factor. Microglial IL-15 could thus play a pivotal role in the CNS and may participate in certain CNS and neuroendocrine functions previously ascribed to IL-2.
The traditional averaging process used to derive event related potential components (ERPs) is a soundly based method of determining the underlying ERP. Averaging, however, ignores the variability due to the single-trial ERPs that constitute the traditional average ERP. This variability may reflect complementary functional information to the average measure. Our group applied a simple procedure, the response variance curve (RVC), which measures single-trial ERP variability relative to their average. In this study, the average ERP and RVC measures (generated from the same single-trial task-relevant target ERPs) were assessed in an auditory oddball paradigm, in 17 unmedicated male adolescents with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and in 17 age- and sex-matched normal controls. P300 amplitude, latency and point of maximum variability of the RVC were measured within the P300 processing window (250-500 ms post-stimulus). There were no significant differences in P300 amplitude or latency between the groups. Unmedicated ADHD patients, however, showed significantly increased single-trial variability within the P300 window compared with controls. This variability was significantly reduced with stimulant medication.
Mammalian bombesin-like peptides are widely distributed in the central nervous system as well as in the gastrointestinal tract, where they modulate smooth-muscle contraction, exocrine and endocrine processes, metabolism and behaviour. They bind to G-protein-coupled receptors on the cell surface to elicit their effects. Bombesin-like peptide receptors cloned so far include, gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRP-R), neuromedin B receptor (NMB-R), and bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS-3). However, despite the molecular characterization of BRS-3, determination of its function has been difficult as a result of its low affinity for bombesin and its lack of an identified natural ligand. We have generated BRS-3-deficient mice in an attempt to determine the in vivo function of the receptor. Mice lacking functional BRS-3 developed a mild obesity, associated with hypertension and impairment of glucose metabolism. They also exhibited reduced metabolic rate, increased feeding efficiency and subsequent hyperphagia. Our data suggest that BRS-3 is required for the regulation of endocrine processes and metabolism responsible for energy balance and adiposity. BRS-3-deficient mice provide a useful new model for the investigation of human obesity and associated diseases.
Methamphetamine (MA) administration to adult rats results in neurotoxicity characterized by depletion of caudate-putamen (CP) dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) and an accompanying increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) content. The severity of MA-induced neurotoxicity correlates with the accompanying thermoregulatory response, i.e., a hyperthermic response facilitates neurotoxicity while a hypothermic response is neuroprotective. In the following study, the thermoregulatory and neurotoxic effects of MA administration (4 x 10 mg/kg) were investigated in developing rats at postnatal days (PND) 20, 40 and 60. Rats at PND 20 and PND 40 were administered MA at ambient temperatures of 22 degrees C and 30 degrees C; and PND 60 rats were administered MA at 22 degrees C only. Temperatures were measured and thermal responses were compared by calculating the total thermal response (TTR) induced by MA treatment. MA administration to PND 60 rats at 22 degrees C induced a hyperthermic response, resulted in a 47% reduction of neostriatal DA and a 49% increase of GFAP content. Administration of MA to PND 40 rats at 22 degrees C failed to induce a hyperthermic response and did not result in reduced DA or increased GFAP. However, administration of MA to PND 40 rats at 30 degrees C induced hyperthermia, reduced neostriatal DA by 54% and increased GFAP by 70%. MA administration to PND 20 rats at either 22 degrees C or 30 degrees C did not result in DA depletion or increased GFAP, even though MA administration to PND 20 rats at 30 degrees C induced hyperthermia. These results demonstrate that the induction of hyperthermia is necessary to exhibit MA-induced neurotoxicity at PND 40; however, PND 20 rats are resistant to the DA depleting effects of MA despite the induction of hyperthermia.
Sustained 20 h pre-exposure to 1 mM 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC, which was removed 30 min before addition of 25 microM glutamate) significantly reduced the subsequent neurotoxicity of glutamate in cultured forebrain and cerebellar neurons. The magnitude of neuronal protection was further enhanced if the neurons pretreated with ACPC were re-exposed to ACPC during glutamate challenge. These results closely resemble earlier findings with cultured spinal cord neurons and indicate that these primary cell culture preparations might be suitable for the assessment of the mechanism(s) underlying chronic ACPC-induced modification of the NMDA receptor complex.
Suramin is an experimental antineoplastic agent which is currently being tested in clinical trials for its utility in treating breast and prostate cancer. Recent in vitro studies from our laboratory report a disruption in glycolipid metabolism and cell death in suramin-treated neurons. Evidence presented in this study proposes to consolidate the neurotoxic and cytotoxic effects of suramin. Electron microscopic studies, bis-benzimide staining and DNA gel electrophoresis of suramin and C2-ceramide treatment revealed apoptotic cells in human breast, prostate and rat neuron like cell lines. Apoptotic cell death was preceded by an elevation in intracellular ceramide.
The localization of neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y1 receptor (R) -like immunoreactivity (LI) has been studied in cerebral arteries and arterioles of the rat by immunohistochemistry using fluorescence, confocal, and electron microscopy. High levels of Y1-R-LI were observed in smooth muscle cells (SMCs) in the small arterioles of the pial arterial network, especially on the basal surface of the brain, and low levels in the major basal cerebral arteries. The levels of Y1-R-LI varied strongly between adjacent SMCs. Y1-R-LI was associated with small endocytosis vesicles, mainly on the outer surface of the SMCs, but also on their endothelial side and often laterally at the interface between two SMCs. NPY-immunoreactive (Ir) nerve fibers could not be detected in association with the Y1-R-rich small arterioles but only around arteries with low Y1-R levels. A dense network of central NPY-Ir nerve fibers in the superficial layers of the brain was lying close to the strongly Y1-R-Ir small arterioles. The results indicate that NPY has a profound effect on small arterioles of the brain acting on Y1-Rs, both on the peripheral and luminal side of the SMCs. However, the source of the endogenous ligand, NPY, remains unclear. NPY released from central neurons may play a role, in addition to blood-borne NPY.
Mutations of the B-type endothelin receptor (ETRB) gene have been found to cause defects in the development of enteric neurons, which resulted in aganglionic megacolon in rodents and humans. To determine the distribution of ETRB mRNA during neural development, mainly in the CNS, in situ hybridization was applied at various developmental stages of rat. ETRB gene was abundantly expressed prenatally in the ventricular and subventricular zones, as well as postnatally in the ependymal and subependymal cells. ETRB mRNA was also strongly detected prenatally in the dorsal root ganglia, as well as postnatally in the cerebellar Bergmann glial cells and epithelial cells of choroid plexus. Our data suggest that ETRB acts as a regulator in the differentiation, proliferation, or migration of neural cells during development.
Parvalbumin, calretinin, and calbindin-D28k are calcium-binding proteins that are located in largely nonoverlapping neuronal populations in the brain. The authors studied the distribution of parvalbumin-, calretinin-, and calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive (ir) cells, fibers, terminals, and neuropil in the eight subfields of the human entorhinal cortex. The distribution of each of the three calcium-binding proteins largely followed the cytoarchitectonic borders of the eight entorhinal subfields, although the regional and laminar distributions of the three proteins were segregated rather than overlapping. The highest density of parvalbumin-ir neurons and terminals was found in the caudal and lateral subfields of the entorhinal cortex. Calretinin and calbindin-D28k immunoreactivities were high rostromedially, although a large number of calretinin and calbindin-D28k neurons were also found in the caudal subfields. All parvalbumin-ir cells had a morphological appearance of nonpyramidal neurons. Parvalbumin-ir terminals formed basket-like formations around unstained somata and cartridges, suggesting that parvalbumin neurons compose a subpopulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic basket cells and chandelier cells, respectively. Although calretinin and calbindin-D28k were also found in numerous nonpyramidal neurons, both were also located in pyramidal-shaped neurons in layers V and VI (calretinin) and in layers II and III (calbindin) of the entorhinal cortex, suggesting that they play roles in projection neurons as well. Moreover, the high density of nonpyramidal neurons containing calcium-binding proteins in layers II and III of the entorhinal cortex suggests that they form an integral component of a network that controls the entorhinal outputs to the hippocampus. Furthermore, the largely nonoverlapping distributions of the parvalbumin-, calretinin-, and calbindin-ir neuronal populations in the entorhinal cortex indicate that each of them may modulate a different subset of topographically organized entorhinal outputs.
Pharmacological manipulation of brain dopamine concentration affects visuospatial working memory in humans and in animals, the latter effects localized to the prefrontal cortex. However, the effects of dopamine agonists on humans are poorly understood. We hypothesized that bromocriptine would have an effect on cognitive functions associated with the prefrontal cortex via its effects on cortical dopamine receptors and on subcortical receptors in areas that project to the neocortex. We found that the effect of bromocriptine on young normal subjects depended on the subjects' working memory capacity. High-capacity subjects performed more poorly on the drug, while low-capacity subjects improved. These results demonstrate an empirical link between a dopamine-mediated working memory system and higher cognitive function in humans.
Systemic administration of the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT; 0.3 mg/kg, s.c.) was used to explore the effects of activation of 5-HT1A receptors on expression of mRNA coding for 5-HT1A receptor, tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) and galanin in the ascending raphe nuclei. 8-OH-DPAT increased the hybridization signal of the 5-HT1A receptor by 105% in the dorsal raphe nucleus (B7) 30 min after the injection. No effects were seen at the later time points (2-8 h). In the median raphe nucleus (B8) and the B9 cell group in the medial lemniscus, 8-OH-DPAT induced a marked decrease in labeling 30 min after injection. At 8 h following 8-OH-DPAT injection, the effect had shifted to an increase in 5-HT1A receptor labeling by 68% in the B8 area. Importantly 8-OH-DPAT had no significant effects on the expression of mRNA coding for TPH and galanin. The results suggest an important and differential mechanism for the regulation of 5-HT1A receptor mRNA levels in the dorsal and median raphe nuclei. This regulation may be of importance for the differential control of the activity of the ascending 5-HT neurons, and hence for mood regulation. The results also indicate a dissociation between the effects mediated by 5-HT1A receptor functions and those regulating the coexisting peptide galanin in the dorsal raphe.
Extrasynaptic transmission is mediated by the diffusion of transmitters, through the extracellular space (ECS) to receptors on neurons and glia. The three-dimensional diffusion of tetramethylammonium (mol. wt 74.1 kDa) was investigated in the isolated rat spinal cord at postnatal days 4-20. The diffusion parameters of the ECS, volume fraction alpha, tortuosity lambda (lambda2 = free/apparent diffusion coefficient in tissue) and nonspecific uptake k', were different in gray and white matter. In both gray and white matter, alpha decreased with neuronal development and gliogenesis by about 15% while lambda significantly increased. Diffusion in gray matter remained isotropic (lambda = 1.65), while in white matter it became anisotropic, i.e. easier along the fibers (lambda = 1.38) than across the fibers (lambda = 1.80). Anisotropy increased in the second postnatal week, during pronounced myelination. In myelinated tissue, preferential diffusion of neuroactive substances occurs along the axons.
The present study investigated the presence, possible synthesis and release of catecholamines (CA) by human amniotic epithelial cells (HAEC) using HPLC with electrochemical detection. The presence of CA was indicated by the detection of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and its metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in extracts of cultured HAEC. Incubation of HAE cells in medium supplemented with 1-tyrosine (CA precursor) and tetrahydrobiopterin (tyrosine hydroxylase cofactor) significantly increased the production of catecholamines, suggesting CA synthesis by HAEC. In contrast, pharmacological inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (MPT) significantly reduced CA production, further confirming CA synthesis by HAEC. Catecholamines were also detected in the cell incubation media, demonstrating the ability of HAEC to spontaneously secrete CA. Moreover, incubation of cells with 50 mM K+ for 10 min increased the amount of CA released into the medium. Additionally, the detection of DOPAC, a primary metabolite of DA, in HAEC strongly indicates that these cells contain DA metabolizing enzymes. The present results suggest that HAEC synthesize and release CA. These cells may be a possible candidate for transplantation therapy of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease and also may serve as a model to study the aspects of catecholaminergic activity.
Binding of the D2-like (D2/D3/D4) radioligand [3H]nemonapride under selective conditions (with 300 nM S[-]-raclopride and other masking agents to occlude D2/D3 receptors and non-specific binding sites) revealed a subset of raclopride-insensitive binding sites considered D4-like receptors. These sites were stereoselective to R(-)-N-n-propylnorapomorphine (NPA) over its S(+)-NPA in a similar fashion to cloned D4 receptors expressed in cell lines. In addition, the highly D4-selective agent L-745,870 displaced 74-83% of these sites in rat brain regions, suggesting that most were D4 receptors. These apparent D4 receptors represented a relatively high proportion of D2-like receptors in hippocampus, dorsolateral frontal, medial prefrontal and entorhinal cortex, but fewer in caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens.
We recently described a novel chemoattractant receptor, provisionally named CMKRL1, which has turned out to be the first cloned leukotriene (LT) receptor. Present binding assays using tritiated LTB4 and isolated membranes from COS-7 cells, transiently transfected with cDNA encoding this receptor, yielded a linear Scatchard plot showing expression of only a single, high-affinity receptor population with a mean Kd of 2.1 nM and Bmax of 17.0 pmoles/mg protein. Sham-transfected cells exhibited no specific binding. LTB4 elicited concentration-dependent increases in intracellular calcium measured with Fura-2 in individual CHO cells stably expressing CMKRL1. No response was seen with sham-transfected control cells, or in calcium-free medium which suggests that calcium mainly originates from extracellular sources. The LTB4-induced cellular calcium increment was blocked in the presence of a monoclonal antibody, raised against a synthetic peptide corresponding to the extracellular tail of CMKRL1 and capable of visualizing the receptor by fluorescence immunocytochemistry. Taken together the analyses show that LTB4 is the endogenous ligand for CMKRL1 which is, thus, identical to the LTB4 receptor, designated BLTR according to the NC-IUPHAR nomenclature.
While unproved, environmental toxins of industrial and or agricultural origin represent an attractive theory to explain the increasing incidence of degenerative diseases of the nervous system such as Parkinson's disease (PD). We have examined several chemicals utilized in an area of Israel previously demonstrated to contain a statistically greater than average number of people with Parkinson's disease. One of these agents, a light stabilizer employed universally in the production of polyolifins used in plastics, depleted primary mesencephalic cultures of dopamine neurons, and produced a dopamine-specific lesion of the substantia nigra pars compacta when injected stereotactically into the ventral midbrain of adult rats. The observed effects were dose-dependent. These findings represent a potentially significant development in the search for industrial/environmental causes of neurodegenerative disease.
The effects of single and repeated electroconvulsive shock (ECS) on the release of dopamine from rat striatal slices were investigated using the fractional release technique. Experiments were performed 24 h after the single or the last of seven ECS sessions. Repeated, but not single, ECS was associated with reduced dopamine release in response to chemical stimulation. These results suggest that repeated ECS affects the regulation of striatal dopamine presynaptic receptors.
We investigated the effect of focal cerebral ischaemia on the activity and the affinity of the ouabain sites of Na+,K+-ATPase in the mouse. The Na+,K+-ATPase activity was decreased by 38% as early as 30 min following ischaemia. In the sham group, the dose-response curves for ouabain disclosed three inhibitory states which contribute, respectively, 24.9 +/- 6.7%, 39.1 +/- 7.5% and 36.0% of the total activity (low affinity, LA; high affinity, HA and very high affinity, VHA, respectively). Their computed IC50 values are, respectively: 1.3 X 10(-3) M, 4.5 X 10(-6) M and 2.9 X 10(-9) M. Surprisingly, in ischaemic cortices, only two sites for ouabain were detected. The first site exhibits a LA (IC50 = 2.0 X 10[-4] M) but its relative contribution to the total activity (46.1 +/- 5.2%) is twice that noted for the LA site in non-ischaemic tissues. The second site presents an affinity intermediate between those of HA and VHA sites of the sham group (IC50 = 1.7 X 10[-7] M) and contributes 53.9% to the total activity. Loss in the specific activity of the second site explains that of the total activity. The most likely explanation in the presence of only two ouabain sites of Na+,K+-ATPase following ischaemia may be a change in ouabain affinity of alpha2 and/or alpha3 isoforms, as the presence of all three alpha isoforms has been observed by Western blotting. These results suggest that ischaemia induces intrinsic modifications in Na+,K+-ATPase which result from perturbations in membrane integrity and/or association of the alpha isoforms of this enzyme.
Immunodetection techniques are dependent on enzyme-protein conjugates for the visualisation of antigen-antibody complexes. One of the most widely used is the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex (ABC) method. The present study demonstrates that direct treatment of goldfish and salamander retinal sections with ABC, followed by an incubation with the chromogenic substrate 3,3-diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride (DAB) and H2O2, manifested a punctate staining pattern across the neural retinae, presumably through binding of avidin to endogenous biotin. Incubation with a primary antiserum against biotin followed by immunoprocessing with the peroxidase--anti-peroxidase (PAP) method showed a pattern similar to the punctuate framework as detected with solo ABC-treated sections. Moreover, the ABC-DAB/H2O2 mediated pattern corresponded to the spatial orientation of Mller cells as identified by GFAP immunostaining. These findings indicate the presence of endogenous biotin in Mller cells and calls for caution in the application of the ABC method in immunotechniques in retinal research.
Effective long term stable anaesthesia is a goal of many drug regimens employed in neuroscience in which procedures carried out are not practical in awake animals. A particular problem is the study of nociceptive mechanisms where good anaesthesia is essential. Similarly studies of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular mechanisms require that normal physiological reflexes be preserved as much as is practical. For non-recovery anaesthesia alpha-chloralose is a good choice since it provides good anaesthesia without excess depression of physiological reflexes. However, alpha-chloralose is sparingly soluble so that its use is not straightforward. We describe the characterisation of a simple procedure to solubilise alpha-chloralose in a solution of 2-hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin. The resulting solution is stable at room temperature and gives a high concentration of alpha-chloralose making it easier to administer regularly during longer time course experiments.
Rats were injected intraperitoneally thrice weekly for 4 weeks with doses of selective inhibitors of monoamine oxidase type A (clorgyline, 1 mg/kg) or B ((-)-selegiline, 10 mg/kg), or saline. Both treatments produced sustained elevations of concentrations of dopamine and serotonin, and decreased their deaminated metabolites in forebrain tissue. Nevertheless, no change in binding of [3H]GBR-12935 to the dopamine transporter or of [3H]paroxetine to the serotonin transporter in caudate-putamen or nucleus accumbens septi was found with quantitative autoradiography. These results support the impression that transporter proteins for these monoamines are not regulated by increased ligand abundance.
S-Nitrosylation (reaction of nitric oxide (NO) species with a critical cysteine sulfhydryl) can regulate the physiological activity of proteins, including enzymes, ion channels, G-proteins, and transcription factors. Caspases are a family of interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme-like proteases involved in the signaling pathway to apoptotic cell death, and each member of this enzyme family contains a critical cysteine residue in its active site. Here we show that S-nitrosylation of caspases in human embryonic kidney (HEK)-293 cells and primary cerebrocortical neurons decreases enzyme activity and is associated with protection from apoptosis.
More than 250 studies, covering 29 Northern and five Southern Hemisphere countries, have been published on the birth seasonality of individuals who develop schizophrenia and/or bipolar disorder. Despite methodological problems, the studies are remarkably consistent in showing a 5-8% winter-spring excess of births for both schizophrenia and mania/bipolar disorder. This seasonal birth excess is also found in schizoaffective disorder (December-March), major depression (March-May), and autism (March) but not in other psychiatric conditions with the possible exceptions of eating disorders and antisocial personality disorder. The seasonal birth pattern also may shift over time. Attempts to correlate the seasonal birth excess with specific features of schizophrenia suggest that winter-spring births are probably related to urban births and to a negative family history. Possible correlations include lesser severity of illness and neurophysiological measures. There appears to be no correlation with gender, social class, race, measurable pregnancy and birth complications, clinical subtypes, or neurological, neuropsychological, or neuroimaging measures. Virtually no correlation studies have been done for bipolar disorder. Regarding the cause of the birth seasonality, statistical artifact and parental procreational habits are unlikely explanations. Seasonal effects of genes, subtle pregnancy and birth complications, light and internal chemistry, toxins, nutrition, temperature/weather, and infectious agents or a combination of these are all viable possibilities.

A central issue in cognitive neuroscience concerns the functional architecture of the prefrontal cortex and the degree to which it is organized by sensory domain. To examine this issue, multiple areas of the macaque monkey prefrontal cortex were mapped for selective responses to visual stimuli that are prototypical of the brain's object vision pathway-pictorial representations of faces. Prefrontal neurons not only selectively process information related to the identity of faces but, importantly, such neurons are localized to a remarkably restricted area. These findings suggest that the prefrontal cortex is functionally compartmentalized with respect to the nature of its inputs.
A new gene, termed klotho, has been identified that is involved in the suppression of several ageing phenotypes. A defect in klotho gene expression in the mouse results in a syndrome that resembles human ageing, including a short lifespan, infertility, arteriosclerosis, skin atrophy, osteoporosis and emphysema. The gene encodes a membrane protein that shares sequence similarity with the beta-glucosidase enzymes. The klotho gene product may function as part of a signalling pathway that regulates ageing in vivo and morbidity in age-related diseases.
The study compared the efficacy of acute versus chronic metrifonate treatment to improve initial and reversal learning of the water maze spatial navigation task in medial septal-lesioned rats. Acute oral administration of 30 mg/kg metrifonate at 30 min, but not at 150 or 360 min, before training improved the initial acquisition of the water maze task. In contrast, improvement of initial learning performance of medial septal-lesioned rats pretreated for 21 days with metrifonate was observed irrespective of the timing of metrifonate treatment relative to behavioral testing. Reversal learning was assessed after a four-day wash-out period. No drug treatment was administered during this part of the study. All the medial septal-lesioned rats that had received only acute treatment with metrifonate during the initial learning stage were now as impaired as vehicle treated medial septal-lesioned rats. However, the group subchronically pretreated with metrifonate performed better than the vehicle-treated medial septal-lesioned controls. These results indicate that both acute and subchronic treatment with metrifonate can facilitate spatial learning in medial septal-lesioned rats and the transient nature of this beneficial effect after single acute administration is transformed into a long-lasting improvement by subchronic treatment.
Clozapine (1-10 mg/kg s.c.) produces a selective increase in dopamine release in rat prefrontal cortex which is, in large part (approximately 50%), mediated via activation of 5-HT1A receptors. Clozapine is a moderately potent, partial 5-HT1A receptor agonist and activation of 5-HT1A receptors may contribute to its efficacy against negative symptoms and reduced extrapyramidal side effect liability. Agonist affinity for 5-HT1A receptors could thus be a desirable feature in the design of new antipsychotics.

Accumulating evidence suggests that tyrosine phosphorylation plays an important role in the development of the central nervous system and in the differentiation of neuronal cells. To identify protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) that might regulate signaling events leading to neuronal cell differentiation, we cloned PTP genes from the murine P19 embryonic carcinoma cell line and examined the change of their expression during differentiation. P19 cells are known to be pluripotent and the aggregate formation and subsequent replating in the presence of retinoic acid (RA) induce growth arrest and neuronal differentiation. The results demonstrated that among several PTP genes expressed in P19 cells, a cytosolic Src homology region 2 domain-containing PTP, SHP-1, is expressed highly in undifferentiated P19 cells, but is reduced to an undetectable level at day 3 after replating in the presence of RA. Further, SHP-1 was tyrosine-phosphorylated and activated at day 1 after replating. When ectopic SHP-1 was constitutively expressed, P19 cells continued to proliferate and failed to differentiate upon stimulation with RA. Collectively, these results suggest that the regulated expression and activity of SHP-1 may be involved in the neuronal differentiation of P19 cells.
Following unilateral removal of all known visual cortical areas, a cat is rendered hemianopic in the contralateral visual field. Visual orientation can be restored to the blind hemifield by transection of the commissure of the superior colliculus or by destruction of the superior colliculus (SC) or the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNpr) contralateral to the cortical lesion. It is hypothesized that a mechanism mediating recovery is disinhibition of the SC ipsilateral to the cortical lesion. The ipsilateral nigrotectal projection exerts a robust inhibitory tone onto cells in the SC. However, ibotenic acid destruction of SNpr neurons, which should decrease inhibition onto the SC, does not result in recovery. The failure of ipsilateral SNpr lesions to produce recovery puts into question the validity of SC disinhibition as a mechanism of recovery. We directly tested the disinhibition hypothesis by reversibly disinhibiting the SC ipsilateral to a visual cortical lesion with a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A antagonist, bicuculline methiodide. In accordance with the hypothesis, transient disinhibition of the SC restored visual orienting for several hours in three of eight animals. Recovery was not a volume or pH effect and was distinct from the release of irrepressible motor effects (i.e., approach and avoidance behaviors) seen within the first hour after injection. Thus, in the absence of all visual cortical areas unilaterally, disinhibition of the SC can transiently restore the ability of the cat to orient to visual stimuli in the previously &quot;blind&quot; hemifield.
The purpose was to investigate the activation pattern of five major hip flexor muscles and its adaptation to changing speed and mode of progression. A total of 11 healthy subjects performed walking and running on a motor-driven treadmill at speeds ranging from 1.0 to 6.0 m s-1. Intramuscular fine-wire electrodes were used to record myoelectric signals from the iliacus, psoas, sartorius, rectus femoris and tensor fascia latae muscles. The basic pattern, with respect to number of activation periods, remained the same irrespective of speed and mode of progression. However, differences in the relative duration and timing of onset of activation occurred between individual muscles. Over the speed range in walking, a progressively earlier onset was generally seen for the activation period related to hip flexion. Changes in EMG amplitude were measured in the iliacus and psoas muscles and showed a marked increase and difference between walking and running at speeds above 2.0 m s-1. Thus, the alternating flexion-extension movements at the hip during locomotion appear to be governed by a rather fixed 'neural program' which normally only needs minor modulations to accomplish the adjustments accompanying an increase in speed of progression as well as a change from walking to running.
Mean arterial blood pressure changes in response to i.v. administration of histamine were monitored in the anaesthetized rat in the absence or presence of the diamine oxidase (DAO) inhibitor aminoguanidine (AMG, 10 mg kg-1). AMG prolonged the duration of the transient drop in blood pressure induced by a bolus injection of histamine (0.05 mg kg-1) by 34%. In animals pretreated with AMG, no potentiation of the decrease in pressure in response to a 10 min infusion of histamine was observed. However, when infusion was stopped, the time needed for pressure recovery was twice as long in animals treated with AMG as in controls. Blood samples were taken prior to infusion and during the recovery phase and the quantities of histamine were determined by liquid chromatography. The prolonged recovery phase observed in animals pretreated with AMG was associated with five times higher levels of histamine. The duration of histamine-induced hypotension (0.01 mg kg-1) was 50% shorter in the presence of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NAME (10 mg kg-1). We suggest that DAO, through elimination of histamine from the bloodstream, is important for the recovery from histamine-induced hypotension, and that the duration of histamine-induced pressure drop is influenced by formation of nitric oxide.
The effect of the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor chelerytrine (Ch) and the PKC activator 12-0-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) on the cytosolic calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) in isolated intact rabbit afferent arterioles was investigated. [Ca2+]i was measured in the proximal and distal parts of the arteriole. Administration of 1 microM Ch gave rise to a peak followed by an elevated level of [Ca2+]i in both these parts. Neither the peak nor the elevated level of [Ca2+]i was significantly reduced by 1 microM nifedipine. The relative peak increase in [Ca2+]i in response to 1 microM noradrenaline (NA) or to 10 nM angiotensin II (AII) was significantly blunted in both parts after preincubation with 1 microM Ch. Depolarization with 25 mM K+ increased [Ca2+]i in both parts. Preincubation with Ch did not affect the increase in [Ca2+]i induced by 25 mM K+. TPA (10 and 100 nM) did not significantly affect the basal [Ca2+]i in the afferent arteriole. The [Ca2+]i response to NA or 25 mM K+ was not affected by TPA. We conclude that blockade of PKC increases [Ca2+]i in afferent arteriolar smooth muscle by a mechanism independent of L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels. Inhibition of PKC blunts the relative increase in [Ca2+]i in response to AII and, to a lesser extent, that induced by NA. We conclude that PKC might be important in modulating the calcium changes that occur in response to these vasoconstrictors.
Exciting and demanding biomedical experiments may attract a specific subgroup of people as volunteers. In the present study of selection bias, subjects volunteering in a psychobiological study that included a potentially painful procedure (lumbar puncture) were compared with those who declined to participate, with regard to scores on personality scales administered during a previous investigation of the same subjects. Significant differences were found on the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire and Karolinska Scales of Personality Impulsiveness scale, suggesting an over-representation of impulsive individuals among the volunteers. If the specific subject of investigation has implications for the type of individual who will participate as a healthy volunteer in biomedical research, variation will be introduced, affecting the independent variable, and the conclusions that can be drawn from such research may be questionable.
To support the idea that temporal information processing may depend on an internal clock, Treisman et al. proposed a pacemaker model (Treisman, M., Faulkner, A., Naish, P.L.N., Brogan, D., 1990. The internal clock: Evidence for a temporal oscillator underlying time perception with some estimates of its characteristics frequency. Perception 19, 705-743.) and a technique for interfering with it by introducing an external periodic phenomenon. Experimental results obtained by these authors on time estimation and production tasks support this model. In another study, Treisman et al. established that the pacemaker also affects reaction times (RT) (Treisman, M., Faulkner, A., Naish, P.L.N., 1992. On the relation between time perception and the timing of motor action: Evidence for a temporal oscillator controlling the timing of movement. Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology 45A, 235-263.). In the present study, we addressed the question as to which information processing stage (Sanders, A.F., 1980. Stage analysis of reaction process, In: Stelmach, G.E., Requin, J. (Eds.). Tutorials in motor behavior. North-Holland, Amsterdam, pp. 331-354.) is affected by this internal clock. For this purpose, we used the Additive Factors Method (Sternberg, S., 1969. The discovery of processing stages: Extension of Donder's method. In: Koster, W.G. (Ed.). Attention and Performance II. Acta Psychologica 30, 276-315.). To vary sensorial processing time, we used two visual stimulus intensities. Stimulus-response mapping was manipulated to enhance central processing time. To modify the duration of the motor stages, the two responses could be given by two fingers on the same hand (right ring vs. middle finger) or by two fingers of the different hands (right ring vs. left middle finger). Intensity of the stimulus, stimulus-response mapping, and repertoire of responses were found to be additive. We obtained RT modulations similar to those obtained by Treisman et al. in 1992. No first order interactions were observed between the periodical phenomenon and the other manipulated factors but only a third order one. Two possible interpretations of these results are proposed.
The effects of increasing concentrations of ethanol (25-200 mM) on the enhancement of [3H]phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate ([3H]PDBu) binding produced by different glutamate receptor agonists, indicative of a translocation of the intracellular enzyme protein kinase C (PKC), were studied in rat cerebellar granule cells at 2, 4, 8, and 12 days in vitro (DIV). Glutamate-produced stimulation of [3H]PDBu binding was inhibited by 50 mM ethanol at 2 DIV, whereas higher ethanol concentrations (&gt; 100 mM) were needed to reduce the increase of [3H]PDBu binding in cells grown for 4, 8, and 12 DIV. Ethanol significantly inhibited NMDA-stimulated [3H]PDBu binding in a concentration-dependent fashion in cells maintained in culture for 4 and 8 days, respectively, with a slightly less pronounced inhibition by ethanol (50 mM) seen in cells kept for 2 and 12 DIV. Application of higher ethanol concentrations (&gt; 100 mM), inhibited the NMDA-induced stimulation in all cell preparations. Following kainic acid-induced enhancement of [3H]PDBu binding, ethanol (100 mM) reduced the binding only in cells maintained for 2 DIV. Even higher ethanol concentrations (200 mM) inhibited the effects of kainic acid only in cells maintained for 2 and 4 DIV, respectively. Our data suggest that various subclasses of glutamate receptors display a developmentally determined differential sensitivity to ethanol at least in cerebellar granule cells in vitro.
The use of a questionnaire, Symptom Check List-90 (SCL-90), as a screening instrument for psychiatric disorders was studied in 60 women attending their first treatment for alcohol abuse in Stockholm, Sweden. A global SCL-90 index, the General Symptomatic Index (GSI), measuring the total level of recent self-reported psychological distress, showed a high efficacy in distinguishing 'psychiatric cases' from 'non-cases' in the present sample. Psychiatric cases were defined as subjects satisfying the criteria for any current DSM-III-R disorder other than substance abuse. The psychiatric diagnoses were obtained independently by use of the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-III-R (SCID-I). Psychiatric disorders, especially depression and anxiety disorders, frequently antecede or develop secondary to alcohol abuse among women. The use of structured interviews to diagnose these disorders is, however, time-consuming. Findings from the present study indicate that SCL-90 can be used to detect psychiatric comorbidity among female alcoholics, thus enabling clinicians to be aware of concomitant psychiatric disorders among a subgroup of patients.
The present study tested the hypothesis that the suppressive effects of ethanol upon predatory attack behaviour in the cat involve a pathway from the medial amygdala to the lateral hypothalamus, and that these suppressive effects are mediated by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA) receptors located in the lateral hypothalamus. Cannula electrodes were implanted into the lateral hypothalamus for elicitation of predatory attack behaviour and for microinjections of the GABAA receptor antagonist, bicuculline. Monopolar stimulating electrodes were implanted into the medial amygdala from which subseizure levels of electrical stimulation suppressed predatory attack behaviour. In the first phase of the study, we compared response latencies for predatory attack behaviour following single stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus alone with those following paired trials of dual stimulation of the medial amygdala plus lateral hypothalamus. Dual stimulation significantly suppressed predatory attack. In the second phase of the study, peripheral ethanol administration (in doses of 0.01, 0.5 and 1.0 g/kg, i.p.) enhanced the suppressive effects of medial amygdaloid stimulation in a dose- and time-dependent manner in which peak effects were obtained 60 min post-injection. In the third phase of the study, bicuculline (0.15 nmol) was microinjected into the lateral hypothalamus both prior to and following paired trials of dual stimulation. Drug infusion blocked the suppressive effects of medial amygdaloid stimulation upon predatory attack behaviour elicited from the lateral hypothalamus, indicating the importance of GABAA receptors in mediating this suppression. In the fourth phase of the study, bicuculline, microinjected into the lateral hypothalamus at the time when ethanol's effects were maximal (i.e. 60-80 min post-ethanol administration), totally blocked the suppressive effects of medial amygdaloid stimulation as well as the enhancing effects of ethanol upon medial amygdaloid suppression of this form of aggressive behaviour. In the last phase of the study, bicuculline (0.15 nmol) infusion into the lateral hypothalamus significantly reduced the suppressive effects of ethanol (1.0 g/kg, i.p.) upon predatory attack behaviour elicited from the lateral hypothalamus. These results support the hypothesis that ethanol's suppressive effects upon predatory attack behaviour in the cat are mediated, at least in part, by GABAA receptors in the lateral hypothalamus. The present and recent findings in our laboratory support the view that GABAA receptors in the lateral hypothalamus are activated, in turn, by a GABAergic pathway which arises from the medial hypothalamus whose neurons receive inputs from the medial amygdala.
Previous studies in our laboratory using a rat model of fetal alcohol exposure (FAE) suggest that FAE-induced behavioral deficits are, in part, linked to neurochemical and electrophysiological deficits in long-term potentiation (LTP) in the entorhinal cortical perforant path projection to the hippocampal formation. Several findings suggest that signal-activated phospholipase C (PLC) and phospholipase A2 (PLA2) are critical to the induction and maintenance of LTP. Thus, alterations in phospholipid metabolism may play a significant role in the LTP deficits observed in FAE offspring. To test this hypothesis, we measured PLC-beta 1 and PLA2 activities in the hippocampus and medial frontal cortex of adult rats prenatally exposed to ethanol. PLC-beta 1 activities were significantly decreased by 20 to 30% in both the hippocampus and medial frontal cortex of FAE rats, compared with ad libitum and pair-fed controls. Total Ca(2+)-dependent PLA2 activity was 25% lower in the medial frontal cortex of FAE rats, but did not significantly differ from controls in the hippocampal formation. Approximately 30% of the measured activity in both the medial frontal cortex and hippocampal formation of ad libitum and pair-fed animals was associated with an 85 kDa cytosolic PLA2 form. Cytosolic PLA2 activities were significantly reduced in both the medial frontal cortex and hippocampal formation of FAE rats, compared with controls. These changes in Ca(2+)-dependent PLA 2 and PLC-beta 1 activities, coupled with reports of FAE-induced deficits in protein kinase C activity, indicate that prenatal exposure to moderate quantities of ethanol causes profound and long-lasting deficits in the cellular signaling mechanisms associated with activity-dependent synaptic plasticity and memory formation.
We have previously reported that inhibition of the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) in chronically sinoaortic baroreceptor-denervated (SAD) rats has no effect on blood pressure in contrast to the marked increase in blood pressure it elicits in baroreceptor-intact rats. This could result either from a lack of tonic excitatory input to this region or from overriding inhibition of NTS neurons involved in the control of blood pressure. The present study aimed to distinguish between these two possibilities by examining the changes in blood pressure elicited by injection of bicuculline (Bic), a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) antagonist, into the NTS of SAD and control rats. In chloralose-anesthetized baroreceptor-intact rats or acutely SAD rats, injection of 10 pmol Bic into the NTS elicited minimal changes in blood pressure. In contrast, in chronic SAD rats injection of Bic into the NTS elicited a large decrease in blood pressure. The maximal decrease in blood pressure elicited by Bic in chronic SAD rats was equivalent to the maximal decrease in blood pressure that could be evoked by direct excitation of the NTS with L-glutamate. These results suggest that the lack of a tonic role of the NTS in the regulation of blood pressure in chronic SAD rats is a result of maximal GABA-mediated inhibition of relevant NTS neurons.
Three experiments were conducted to investigate the effect of restraint stress applied at different times of the light-dark cycle on feeding behavior and body weight of rats. Sprague-Dawley rats were restrained for 3 h in restraining tubes either at the start or the end of the light cycle. There was a significant reduction in food intake on the day of restraint and no change in food intake during a 10-day recovery period in either experiment. Reductions of food intake on the day of restraint were about the same for both restrained groups compared with their controls. When stress was applied in the evening, eating was inhibited during the first 2 h after restraint, whereas in rats restrained in the morning, feeding was suppressed twice: during the 4 h after restraint and during the first 2 h of the dark cycle. Restraint induced a significant weight loss that was greater in the rats stressed in the morning. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) levels determined at the time of food suppression for both experiments (beginning of the dark cycle) revealed an elevation of NPY in the paraventricular nucleus of rats stressed in the morning compared with other groups, but no difference in hypothalamic NPY mRNA expression. Expression of uncoupling protein mRNA in brown adipose tissue and leptin mRNA in epididymal fat, measured at the start of the dark period, was not altered by stress. There was an elevation of dopamine turnover in the hypothalami of rats restrained at the end of light cycle, but not those restrained in the morning. These results show that restraint stress has a greater effect on metabolism and energy balance when it is applied in the morning. Additional studies are needed to elucidate mechanisms involved in the suppression of food intake 9 h after restraint.
Clonidine, moxonidine, and rilmenidine are centrally acting antihypertensive agents that lower arterial pressure by inhibiting the tonic activity of sympathoexcitatory neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Competing hypotheses have been put forward by different investigators to explain the sympathoinhibition evoked by &quot;imidazoline drugs&quot;: either via central actions at alpha 2-adrenergic receptors or novel I1-imidazoline receptors. These different perspectives are presented in the accompanying reviews.
A role for neuropeptide Y (NPY) in neurotransmission in rat iridial arterioles has been investigated. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis has demonstrated mRNA expression for both Y1 and Y2 receptors in the superior cervical ganglion and iris. The Y1 agonist [Leu31,Pro34]NPY caused a dose-dependent constriction of iris arterioles (50% effective concentration of 10(-8) M), but, at low concentrations (10(-9) and 10(-10) M), it failed to potentiate either submaximal responses to norepinephrine (10(-6) M) or submaximal, noradrenergic responses to nerve stimulation. In contrast, 10(-7) M [Leu31,Pro34]NPY potentiated submaximal, noradrenergic responses to nerve stimulation (10 Hz, &lt; or = 1 s) and to a concentration of norepinephrine (10(-7) M) which produced only small contractions. The Y1 antagonist 1229U91 blocked contractions induced by [Leu31,Pro34]NPY. Stimulation of the nerves for longer periods (10 or 20 Hz; 5, 30, or 60 s) revealed a component of the response which was reduced by 1229U91. This component was not apparent after brief stimuli (10 Hz, &lt; or = 1 s), even when opposing receptor pathways were blocked. The Y2 agonist N-acetyl-[Leu28,Leu31]NPY24-36 had little effect on arterioles preconstricted with either high potassium or an alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist, or on nerve-mediated contractions. Results suggest that NPY, released from sympathetic nerves during long-duration, high-frequency stimulation, activates Y1 receptors on iris arterioles to produce vasoconstriction and to potentiate responses to low concentrations of norepinephrine.
Longitudinal smooth muscle strips from guinea pig ileum were cultured in vitro for 5 days, and the relationship between extracellular Ca2+ and force in high-K+ medium was evaluated. In strips cultured with 10% fetal calf serum (FCS), this relationship was shifted to the right (50% effective concentration changed by 2-3 mM) compared with strips cultured without FCS. The shift was prevented by inclusion of verapamil (1 microM) during culture and mimicked by ionomycin in the absence of FCS. The intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) during stimulation with high-K+ solution or carbachol was reduced after culture with FCS, whereas the [Ca2+]i-force relationship was unaffected. Cells were isolated from cultured strips, and whole cell voltage-clamp experiments were performed. Maximum inward Ca2+ current (10 mM Ba2+), normalized to cell capacitance, was almost three times smaller in cells isolated from strips cultured with FCS. Culture with 1 microM verapamil prevented this reduction. These results suggest that increased [Ca2+]i during culture downregulates Ca2+ current density, with associated effects on contractility.


Adenoviral vectors have recently been recognized as highly efficient systems for gene delivery into various tissues. We show that a reporter gene introduced into nerve terminals via an adenovirus can be used to label cell bodies retrogradely and then label the axons and nerve terminals of the infected neurons anterogradely in vivo. We injected a replication-defective recombinant adenovirus carrying the E. coli beta-galactosidase gene (lacZ) into the cerebellar cortex of the adult mouse. The first evidence of retrograde labeling was obtained at 2 days after the infection when neurons in the pontine nuclei and the reticulotegmental nucleus of the pons weakly expressed beta-galactosidase, and at 3 days post-infection when neurons in all precerebellar nuclei, known to project to the cerebellar cortex, were strongly stained with X-gal in a Golgi-like manner. Anterograde transport of lacZ gene products was recognized at 3 days post-infection; beta-galactosidase-positive axons arose from somata or dendrites of retrogradely labeled neurons, passed through the middle or inferior cerebellar peduncles, and entered the cerebellum. Anterogradely labeled mossy terminals were recognized on the injection side at 8 days post-infection, and on the contralateral side at 14 days post-infection. Beta-galactosidase expression persisted for up to two months, with a decrease in the total number of labeled cells over time. We could not find any signs of anterograde or retrograde transsynaptic labeling in the nuclei synaptically linked to the cerebellar cortex at any time point after injection up to 58 days post-infection.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive paralytic disorder resulting from the degeneration of motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord and leading to death within 5 years of symptom onset. The great majority of ALS cases are sporadic, with the familial form (FALS) representing fewer than 10% of all cases. Mutations in the copper/zinc superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD-1) gene have previously been identified as the underlying cause of approximately 20% of FALS cases. As the familial and sporadic forms of the disease are clinically similar, we have sought to determine whether such mutations in SOD-1 underlie any sporadic ALS cases. We have screened 155 sporadic cases by single-strand conformation polymorphism and have identified 4 sporadic cases that possess point mutations in exon 4 of the SOD-1 gene. Two of these mutations are identical to those previously reported in FALS cases. One mutation is novel, resulting in a frameshift at Val118 due to the replacement of G (first base in the last codon of exon 4) by AAAAC. This mutation results in a truncated SOD-1 protein due to the introduction of a stop codon three residues into exon 5.
To determine whether cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) viral burden measurements can assist in the evaluation of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated neurocognitive disorders, we quantified HIV type 1 (HIV-1) RNA in CSF. Because previous findings suggested that disease stage, lymphocytic pleocytosis, and HIV-1 RNA levels in plasma may influence CSF viral burden, these variables were examined as potential modifying factors. HIV-1 RNA levels were quantified by using a reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction assay. Performance on a comprehensive neuropsychological (NP) battery was noted in 97 prospectively enrolled, HIV-infected subjects. Among subjects with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) (&lt;200 CD4+ lymphocytes), NP impairment was associated with significantly higher CSF RNA levels (3.1 vs 1.8 log10 copies/ml; p = 0.02); most impaired subjects met criteria for HIV-associated dementia or minor cognitive-motor disorder. In subjects without AIDS, CSF RNA and NP impairment were unrelated. Before AIDS, CSF RNA was strongly correlated to plasma RNA and to pleocytosis, but in AIDS, CSF and plasma RNA were independent. In conclusion, we found elevated CSF HIV-1 RNA levels in NP impaired subjects with AIDS. Before AIDS, systemic viral replication, possibly through CD4+ mononuclear cell trafficking, may govern virus levels in CSF, whereas in AIDS, CD4 cell depletion may unmask a correlation between increased productive central nervous system HIV infection and clinical neurocognitive disorders.
Cell proliferation is characteristic, though non specific, of tumors. The cell cycle is regarded as a clock with ordered activation of protein complexes triggering initiation and advancement through checkpoints. The cell cycle and its control mechanisms are briefly described herein focusing on neuroepithelial tumors. The assessment of cell proliferation in brain tumors is a very important tool in diagnosis and especially in prognosis. It can be performed by different methods: counting mitoses, calculating the labeling index (Ll) of [3H] Thymidine, BrdU, Ki-67, MIB.1, PCNA, cytometry and AgNORs. Each method has its advantages and disadvantages. The main obstacles to the usefulness of different Lls in establishing prognosis in individual cases are sampling error, heterogeneity of the proliferation potential of brains tumors and the wide overlapping of Ll ranges between classic and anaplatic variants. The principal findings are critically described and commented upon.


Electrolytic lesions of the dorsal hippocampus (DH) produce deficits in both the acquisition and expression of conditional fear to contextual stimuli in rats. To assess whether damage to DH neurons is responsible for these deficits, we performed three experiments to examine the effects of neurotoxic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) lesions of the DH on the acquisition and expression of fear conditioning. Fear conditioning consisted of the delivery of signaled or unsignaled footshocks in a novel conditioning chamber and freezing served as the measure of conditional fear. In Experiment 1, posttraining DH lesions produced severe retrograde deficits in context fear when made either 1 or 28, but not 100, days following training. Pretraining DH lesions made 1 week before training did not affect contextual fear conditioning. Tone fear was impaired by DH lesions at all training-to-lesion intervals. In Experiment 2, posttraining (1 day), but not pretraining (1 week), DH lesions produced substantial deficits in context fear using an unsignaled shock procedure. In Experiment 3, pretraining electrolytic DH lesions produced modest deficits in context fear using the same signaled and unsignaled shock procedures used in Experiments 1 and 2, respectively. Electrolytic, but not neurotoxic, lesions also increased pre-shock locomotor activity. Collectively, this pattern of results reveals that neurons in the DH are not required for the acquisition of context fear, but have a critical and time-limited role in the expression of context fear. The normal acquisition and expression of context fear in rats with neurotoxic DH lesions made before training may be mediated by conditioning to unimodal cues in the context, a process that may rely less on the hippocampal memory system.
There are indications that the severity of functional gastrointestinal disturbances in humans is linked to individual coping styles. In rodents, the open field test can be used to assess individual differences in behavioural responsivity to novel challenges. Two groups of Wistar rats were selected for high (HA) and low (LA) locomotor activity in a novel open field and fitted with electrodes on the proximal colon. During subsequent exposure to a novel box, a smaller locomotor activation in LA was accompanied by a greater increase in colonic spike burst activity compared to HA rats, even though this novel stressful challenge did not result in a clear defecation response in either group. In contrast, no marked behavioural differences between HA and LA were seen in the shock prod paradigm. Although detection of divergent behavioural responsivity in HA and LA rats may depend on stimulus quality or intensity, combined use of behavioural selection and intestinal motility recording in freely moving rats may offer a model to study individual vulnerability to stress-related disturbances of intestinal function.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats received bilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the central amygdaloid nucleus (CeA) and were compared to sham-lesioned rats in their response to different concentrations of saccharin and quinine solutions. In two-bottle choice test situation, the lesioned rats exhibited a lower saccharin preference at concentrations of 2.5; 7.5 and 25 mM, while their aversion towards quinine and the highest concentration of saccharin (50 mM) was increased. In a one-bottle test, the lesioned rats showed consistent decreases in their consumption of 2.5 and 7.5 mM saccharin solutions whereas their intake of 0.9 mM solution of saccharin was equal to that of the sham-lesioned rats. The lesion of the CeA had no significant effects on the acquisition of conditioned taste aversion. There was less postoperative weight gain in lesioned rats as compared to sham-lesioned animals but the lesion had no significant effect on daily water intake. These findings suggest that the CeA plays an important role in the normal response to exteroceptive food stimuli via modulation of the aversive value of taste stimuli. The results are discussed in the context of an interaction between the CeA and the lateral hypothalamus (LH) in the modulation of palatability and feeding behavior.
The role of subunit composition in determining intrinsic maximum activation and deactivation kinetics of GABA(A) receptor channels is unknown. We used rapid ligand application (100-micros solution exchange) to examine the effects of alpha-subunit composition on GABA-evoked activation and deactivation rates. HEK 293 cells were transfected with human cDNAs encoding alpha1beta1gamma2- or alpha2beta1gamma2-subunits. Channel kinetics were similar across different transfections of the same subunits and reproducible across several GABA applications in the same patch. Current rise to peak was at least twice as fast for alpha2beta1gamma2 receptors than for alpha1beta1gamma2 receptors (reflected in 10-90% rise times of 0.5 versus 1.0 ms, respectively), and deactivation was six to seven times slower (long time constants of 208 ms versus 31 ms) after saturating GABA applications. Thus alpha-subunit composition determined activation and deactivation kinetics of GABA(A) receptor channels and is therefore likely to influence the kinetics and efficacy of inhibitory postsynaptic currents.
1. The effects of cessation of chronic ethanol ingestion on seizure activity in vivo and on the characteristics of the evoked synaptic potentials in cortical neurones in vitro have been investigated in mice. Withdrawal from chronic ethanol treatment increased handling seizure ratings in mice between 4 and 16 h post-withdrawal. This ethanol-induced increase in seizure rating was unaffected by carbamazepine (30 mg kg(-1)) but significantly reduced at a higher concentration (130 mg kg(-1)). 2. Intracellular recordings were made from cortical layer II neurones in vitro from control mice and from mice following chronic ethanol ingestion. Evoked synaptic potentials were generated in these neurones through intralaminar stimulation. 3. Neurones from control mice displayed an evoked potential consisting of a fast excitatory postsynaptic potential (e.p.s.p.) mediated by AMPA-type glutamate receptors and an inhibitory postsynaptic potential (i.p.s.p.) mediated via GABA(A) receptors. Application of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) or bicuculline onto these neurones inhibited the i.p.s.p., caused a large increase in both the amplitude and duration of the e.p.s.p. and initiated spontaneous excitatory activity. The resulting large evoked e.p.s.p. was mediated via both NMDA- and AMPA-type glutamate receptors. 4. Most neurones (77%) from ethanol treated mice displayed an evoked potential which comprised a large e.p.s.p. and no i.p.s.p. The e.p.s.p. consisted of several distinct components and in addition these neurones displayed spontaneous paroxysmal depolarizing shifts. This multi-component e.p.s.p. was mediated through both NMDA- and AMPA-type glutamate receptors. A population (23%) of neurones from ethanol treated mice exhibited evoked potentials which possessed both inhibitory and excitatory components and these neurones were effectively identical to those obtained from control mice. 5. Carbamazepine reduced the duration of the e.p.s.p. in neurones from ethanol treated mice and in PTZ-treated control neurones. 6. Prolonged ethanol ingestion is known to create a neurochemical imbalance in cortical neurones resulting in abnormal neurotransmission. The present study highlights the functional consequences that arise as a result of these neurochemical changes leading to over-excitation of neurones and pronounced epileptiform activity.
1. Cutaneous resistance arteries (c.r.a.) (internal diameter=240.94+/-5.42 microm, n=67/25 (number arteries/number animals)) from New Zealand white rabbits were mounted in wire myographs and a normalization procedure followed. 2. Cumulative concentration-response curves (CCRCs) were constructed for the alpha-adrenoceptor agonists noradrenaline (NA), (R)A61603 and phenylephrine (PE) in the presence of cocaine (3 microM), propranolol (1 microM) and corticosterone (10 microM). The effects of competitive alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists, prazosin, WB4101, 5-methyl-urapidil, HV723, BMY7378 and the irreversible alpha1B selective compound chloroethylclonidine (CEC) were examined versus the potency and maximum response of the c.r.a.s to noradrenaline. 3. The high potency of A-61603 relative to PE has been shown to differentiate both functional and binding site alpha1A- or alpha1B-adrenoceptors from alpha1D-adrenoceptors: A-61603 was 944 times more potent than phenylephrine (at EC50) suggesting the presence of a functional alpha1A or alpha1B as opposed to an alpha1D-subtype. 4. Exposure to chloroethylclonidine (CEC; 100 microM) decreased the maximum response to noradrenaline but did not significantly change noradrenaline sensitivity indicating that a substantial part of noradrenaline-induced vasoconstriction in rabbit cutaneous arteries is CEC-insensitive. 5. The potencies of prazosin (pA2=9.14) and WB4101 (pA2=9.30) indicate the involvement of prazosin-sensitive functional alpha1-adrenoceptors. The slopes of corresponding Schild plots for prazosin and WB4101 did not include negative unity which implies the possible involvement of more than one functional alpha1-adrenoceptor subtype in noradrenaline-induced vasoconstriction in rabbit cutaneous resistance arteries. In contrast to this, in the case of 5-methyl-urapidil and HV723, the Schild plot slope parameters were not significantly different from negative unity over the range of concentrations used; the low pA2 value for 5-methylurapidil (7.27) suggests the non-involvement of an alpha1A- or an alpha1D-adrenoceptor; the low pA2 value for HV723 (8.47) was similar to that against responses postulated as alpha1L. 6. We conclude that rabbit cutaneous resistance arteries express a prazosin-sensitive functional alpha1-adrenoceptor resembling the alpha1B and another low affinity site for prazosin which on the basis of the functional antagonism produced by HV723 most closely resembles the alpha1L-adrenoceptor; the low pA2 value for HV723 (8.47) is similar to that against responses postulated as alpha1L.
1. The aim of this study was to investigate whether delayed treatment with the anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory agent ebselen reduces the volume of infarction in a rodent model of permanent focal cerebral ischaemia. 2. Ebselen (10 or 30 mg kg-1) or vehicle was administered by gavage 30 min and 12 h after the induction of cerebral ischaemia by permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA). Animals were killed 24 h following MCA occlusion, and the volumes of ischaemic damage in the ebselen and control groups were evaluated by quantitative histopathology. 3. Ebselen was quickly absorbed following oral (gavage) administration and reached peak levels in the plasma by 1 h post-administration (plasma selenium level of 0.68 +/- 0.04 and 0.84 +/- 0.1 microgram ml-1 for 10 and 30 mg kg-1, respectively, compared to control level of 0.51 +/- 0.02 microgram kg-1). 4. Treatment with the lower dose of ebselen (10 mg kg-1) significantly (P &lt; 0.01) reduced the volume of infarction in the cerebral hemisphere and cerebral cortex (by 31.8% and 36.7%, respectively compared with the placebo group). 5. The neuroprotective efficacy of the higher dose ebselen (30 mg kg-1) was less than that of the lower dose ebselen (10 mg kg-1). The volume of ischaemic damage in the cerebral hemisphere was reduced by 23.7% (P &lt; 0.02), and cerebral cortex by 27.5% (P &lt; 0.01). 6. Both doses of ebselen (10, 30 mg kg-1) had no therapeutic efficacy on the caudate nucleus, where ischaemia was most severe, in this model. 7. Free radical-mediated injury is normally associated with reperfusion of ischaemic tissue. The present results suggest that oxidative injury is also a significant contributor to brain damage in models of maintained (permanent) ischaemia and that ebselen is effective in attenuating this free radical-induced damage.
1. The pharmacological profile of adenosine A1 receptors in human, guinea-pig, rat and mouse brain membranes was characterized in a radioligand binding assay by use of the receptor selective antagonist, [3H]-8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine ([3H]-DPCPX). 2. The affinity of [3H]-DPCPX binding sites in rat cortical and hippocampal membranes was similar. Binding site affinity was higher in rat cortical membranes than in membranes prepared from guinea-pig cortex and hippocampus, mouse cortex and human cortex. pKD values (M) were 9.55, 9.44, 8.85, 8.94, 8.67, 9.39 and 8.67, respectively. The binding site density (Bmax) was lower in rat cortical membranes than in guinea-pig or human cortical membranes. 3. The rank order of potency of seven adenosine receptor agonists was identical in each species. With the exception of 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA), agonist affinity was 3.5-26.2 fold higher in rat cortical membranes than in human and guinea-pig brain membranes; affinity in rat and mouse brain membranes was similar. While NECA exhibited 9.3 fold higher affinity in rat compared to human cortical membranes, affinity in other species was comparable. The stable GTP analogue, Gpp(NH)p (100 microM) reduced 2-chloro-N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CCPA) affinity 7-13.9 fold, whereas the affinity of DPCPX was unaffected. 4. The affinity of six xanthine-based adenosine receptor antagonists was 2.2-15.9 fold higher in rat cortical membranes compared with human or guinea-pig membranes. The rank order of potency was species-independent. In contrast, three pyrazolopyridine derivatives, (R)-1-[(E)-3-(2-phenylpyrazolo[1,5-a]pyridin-3-yl) acryloyl]-2-piperidine ethanol (FK453), (R)-1-[(E)-3-(2-phenylpyrazolo[1,5-a]pyridin-3-yl) acryloyl]-piperidin-2-yl acetic acid (FK352) and 6-oxo-3-(2-phenylpyrazolo[1,5-a]pyridin-3-yl)-1(6H)-pyridazinebutyric acid (FK838) exhibited similar affinity in human, guinea-pig, rat and mouse brain membranes. pKi values (M) for [3H]-DPCPX binding sites in human cortical membranes were 9.31, 7.52 and 7.92, respectively. 5. Drug affinity for adenosine A2A receptors was determined in a [3H]-2-[4-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamido ade nosine ([3H]-CGS 21680) binding assay in rat striatal membranes. The pyrazolopyridine derivatives, FK453, FK838 and FK352 exhibited pKi values (M) of 5.90, 5.92 and 4.31, respectively, compared with pKi values of 9.31, 8.18 and 7.57 determined in the [3H]-DPCPX binding assay in rat cortical membranes. These novel pyrazolopyridine derivatives therefore represent high affinity, adenosine A1 receptor selective drugs that, in contrast to xanthine based antagonists, exhibit similar affinity for [3H]-DPCPX binding sites in human, rat, mouse and guinea-pig brain membranes.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), a glycoprotein with hormonal properties, is produced by several cell types, most of which exist outside the CNS. GM-CSF, however, affects the CNS. If capable of crossing from blood to CNS, GM-CSF might be an important signalling molecule between the CNS and periphery. We used an established in vivo method in mice and rats to study passage of radioactively labelled GM-CSF from blood to CNS. We found that GM-CSF crossed the blood-brain barrier and blood-spinal cord barrier significantly faster than the control substance, albumin. Labelled GM-CSF was recovered in intact form by high performance liquid chromatography from brain after peripheral injection, and passage was not significantly reduced by simultaneous injection of unlabelled L-tryptophan. Both findings indicate that the observed passage of radioactivity was intact protein. Capillary depletion experiments showed that most of the GM-CSF was deposited in brain parenchyma rather than cerebral capillary endothelium. Co-injection of unlabelled GM-CSF significantly reduced the passage rate of labelled cytokine across the blood-brain and blood-spinal cord barriers, demonstrating that passage was mediated by a saturable system. In summary, a saturable mechanism transports GM-CSF intact from blood to CNS.
We investigated the line bisection performances in 24 patients with left unilateral spatial neglect. They bisected lines of two lengths in three positions relative to the sagittal midplane of the body. The results showed that in the mild or moderate neglect patients, length and spatial locations of the lines affected the placement of the subjective midpoint. In the severe neglect patients, however, length had little effect on their performances, and location of the right endpoint in the egocentric space mainly determined the subjective midpoint. The line bisection process of the severe neglect patients was not only quantitatively but also qualitatively different from that of the mild or moderate cases.
The expression of beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP) immunoreactivity was investigated in 16 cases of prenatal-onset periventricular leukomalacia (PVL). beta-APP positive axons were found in the early stage of prenatal PVL, which included coagulation necrosis, microglial activation, axonal swelling or astrogliosis, but were not detectable in the late stage of prenatal PVL. Furthermore, beta-APP immunoreactive neurons were also observed in the fifth layer of pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex, corresponding to the beta-APP positive axons in PVL. Thus, beta-APP is detected as an early sign of axonal and neuronal lesions in prenatal-onset PVL, and neuronal beta-APP in the cerebral cortex may function to repair cell damage. In addition, prenatal PVL occurred at various stages before birth.
'Electrical status epilepticus during sleep' (ESES) is a typical childhood process of generalization of paroxysmal activity. Notwithstanding a number of intermediate forms, three syndromes included in the 1989 ILAE classification can be considered as prototypes: the 'continuous spike-waves during sleep' (CSWS syndrome), the 'acquired aphasia with convulsive disorder in children' (L-Kl syndrome) and the 'benign epilepsy of childhood with rolandic spikes' (BECRS), which can be considered as the benign end of the spectrum. The pathognomonic clinical and EEG features of these conditions are described. They can probably be considered, in a unifying view, to be based on a common pathogenetic factor. They are associated with neuropsychological and/or mental disturbances with differences probably due to the idiopathic or symptomatic origin of the underlying epileptic condition, the cortical area of the primary focal paroxysmal activity, the patient's age and the severity and duration of the paroxysmal dysfunction. Possible hypotheses on the physiopathogeneses of ESES and correlated neuropsychological disorders are summarized. Short cycles (3-4 weeks) of relatively high daily doses of diazepam (DZP) (0.5 mg/kg body weight) following a rectal DZP bolus of 1 mg/kg b.w. seem to be effective in the majority of ESES conditions. The somewhat underestimated problem of neuropsychological disorders correlated with ESES in BECRS is also considered.
The neuropeptide galanin mediates a diverse spectrum of biological activities by interacting with specific G-protein-coupled receptors. Through expression cloning, human and rat GALR1 receptor cDNA clones have previously been isolated and characterized. In this study, we have used homology screening to isolate a rat brain cDNA clone encoding a second galanin receptor subtype, the GALR2 receptor. The isolated cDNA encodes a 372-amino-acid G-protein-coupled receptor that shares 38% overall amino-acid identity with the rat GALR1 receptor. The pharmacological profile of the rat GALR2 receptor is similar to that of the rat GALR1 receptor. The rat GALR2 receptor binds galanin, N-terminal galanin fragments, and the putative galanin receptor antagonists galantide, C7, M35 and M40 with high affinity but it does not bind C-terminal galanin fragments. Galanin increases intracellular inositol phosphate levels in HEK 293 cells expressing the rat GALR2 receptor via a pertussis toxin-insensitive G-protein. The rat GALR2 receptor mRNA is highly expressed in several brain regions, including hypothalamus and hippocampus as well as the anterior pituitary, with lower levels of expression detected in amygdala, and regions of cortex. It is also highly expressed in the GH3 pituitary cell line and in gut tissues, and to a lower extent in spleen, lung, skeletal muscle, heart, kidney, liver and testis. These results suggest that GALR2 receptor mediates galanin's regulation of pituitary hormone secretion and possibly food intake.
Neurosurgery is by excellence a field of application for robots, based on multimodal image guidance. Specific motorized tools have been already developed and routinely applied in stereotaxy to position a probe holder or in conventional neurosurgery to hold a microscope oriented towards a given target. The potentialities of these approaches have triggered industrial developments currently commercially available. These systems use data bases, primarily coming from multimodal numerical images from X-ray radiology to magnetic resonance imaging. These spatially encoded data are transferred through digital networks to workstations where images can be processed and surgical procedures are preplanned, then transferred to the robotic systems to which they are connected. We have been using a stereotactic robot since 1989 and a microscope robot since 1995 in various surgical routine procedures. The future of these applications mainly rely on the technical progress in informatics, about image recognition to adapt the preplanning to the actual surgical situation, to correct brain shifts for instance, about image fusion, integrated knowledge such such as brain atlases, as well as virtual reality. The future developments, covering surgical procedure, research and teaching, will sure be far beyond our wildest expectations.


The neurotrophins comprise a family of secreted proteins that elicit profound responses in cells of the developing and mature vertebrate nervous system including the regulation of neuronal survival and differentiation. The molecular mechanisms by which the neurotrophins exert their effects have been the subject of intense investigation. The neurotrophins elicit responses in neurons via members of the Trk family of receptors and the p75 neurotrophin receptor. Once activated, neurotrophin receptors trigger a large number of biochemical events that propagate the neurotrophin signal from the plasma membrane to the interior of the cell. An important target of the neurotrophin-induced signaling pathways is the nucleus, where neurotrophin-induced signals are coupled to alterations in gene expression. These neurotrophin-induced changes in gene expression are critical for many of the phenotypic effects of neurotrophins including the regulation of neuronal survival and differentiation.
The present review describes several lines of recent evidence providing new insights into the basic principles and mechanisms of axon projection from the olfactory epithelium to the olfactory bulb. Olfactory sensory neurons are classified into approximately 1000 subtypes according to the expression of specific odorant receptors. Olfactory sensory neurons expressing a given odorant receptor are distributed within one zone out of the four circumscribed zones of the olfactory epithelium and send their axons to the corresponding zone of the olfactory bulb: the principle of zone-to-zone projection. We discuss possible functions of a novel cell adhesion molecule, viz., OCAM, in the formation and maintenance of zone-to-zone projection of both olfactory and vomeronasal axons. Furthermore, olfactory sensory neurons expressing a given odorant receptor converge their axons onto only two topographically fixed glomeruli among the 1500-3000 glomeruli in the olfactory bulb: the principle of glomerular convergence. These axonal connection patterns give rise to the response specificity of the second-order neurons, viz., the mitral/tufted cells, to a particular range of odor molecules. In the process of glomerular convergence, combinatorial functions of axon-associated cell adhesion molecules and odorant receptor proteins may be required for the establishment of the precise targeting of olfactory axons to the appropriate glomeruli.
Astrocytes and other glia in the central nervous system are now thought to produce molecules that negatively modulate axon growth, thereby influencing axon pathfinding in both development and regeneration. The relevant evidence for glial cell boundaries and the inhibitory molecules present in these extracellular matrix structures is discussed in this minireview.
The release of extracellular proteases by the axonal growth cone has been proposed to facilitate its movement by digesting cell-cell and cell-matrix contacts in the path of the advancing growth cone. The serine protease plasminogen activator (PA) has been shown to be secreted and focally concentrated at axonal growth cones of cultured mammalian neurons. Thus, PAs are well-placed to play an active role in growth cone movement and axonal pathfinding in development and regeneration. We discuss recent findings that suggest that the biological action of these proteases is more complex than originally thought.
We describe the recent progress of studies on the mechanisms of early neural patterning, focusing on the guidance of circumferentially migrating axons in the vertebrate brain. We also refer to the underlying molecular mechanisms revealed by recent studies.
The possible roles of the tyrosine kinase receptor EphA5 and its ligand Ephrin-A5 in axon guidance and axon fasciculation are reviewed.

This review is concerned with recent literature on the neural control of the pituitary pars intermedia of the amphibian Xenopus laevis. This aquatic toad adapts skin colour to the light intensity of its environment, by releasing the proopiomelanocortin (POMC)-derived peptide alpha-MSH (alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone) from melanotrope cells. The activity of these cells is controlled by brain centers of which the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic and magnocellular nuclei, respectively, inhibit and stimulate both biosynthesis and release of alpha-MSH. The suprachiasmatic nucleus secretes dopamine, GABA, and NPY from synaptic terminals on the melanotropes. The structure of the synapses depends on the adaptation state of the animal. The inhibitory transmitters act via cAMP. Under inhibition conditions, melanotropes actively export cAMP, which might have a first messenger action. The magnocellular nucleus produces CRH and TRH. CRH, acting via cAMP, and TRH stimulate POMC-biosynthesis and POMC-peptide release. ACh is produced by the melanotrope cell and acts in an autoexcitatory feedback on melanotrope M1 muscarinic receptors to activate secretory activity. POMC-peptide secretion is driven by oscillations of the [Ca2+]i, which are initiated by receptor-mediated stimulation of Ca2+ influx via N-type calcium channels. The hypothalamic neurotransmitters and ACh control Ca2+ oscillatory activity. The structural and functional aspects of the various neural and endocrine steps in the regulation of skin colour adaptation by Xenopus reveal a high degree of plasticity, enabling the animal to respond optimally to the external demands for physiological adaptation.
Lack of insight complicates the evaluation and treatment of patients with psychotic and affective disorders. No studies of insight in seasonal affective disorder (SAD) have been reported. Thirty patients with SAD diagnosed by the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-III-R but no other axis I conditions were treated short-term with light-therapy. Insight was measured with the Scale to Assess Unawareness of Mental Disorder (SUMD) as modified by the authors to assess the self-report of insight into depressive symptoms. Increasing scores (1 to 5) indicated increasing unawareness of illness (i.e., less insight). SAD patients displayed a moderate amount of insight when depressed (mean SUMD score, 2.5). When recovered, they showed no significant change in insight into past depressive symptoms (mean SUMD score, 2.8). Greater insight into current depressive symptoms correlated with more depressive symptoms on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression score ([HRSD] r = .35, P &lt; .05). In conclusion, SAD patients possess a moderate amount of insight into depressive symptoms that does not change after recovery, a result in agreement with studies of insight in psychosis and mania. Further, in SAD, increased severity of illness may be associated with increased insight into depressive symptoms, consistent with the hypothesis of depressive realism.
Development of breathing behavior depends on the coordinated maturation of central and peripheral neural pathways, respiratory muscles, airways, and lung tissues. Each of these components contains cellular elements in which derangements of gene expression may perturb development of normal respiratory function. Application in recent years of genetic engineering techniques has led to detailed analyses of gene structure and function. In particular, targeted gene deletions provide the opportunity to relate gene function to physiologic mechanisms in intact animals. This review summarizes recent studies in mice designed to alter, by targeted disruption of specific genes, development of individual components of the respiratory control system. We also discuss an example of the human therapeutic potential of transgenic methods.
We investigated the correlation between cortical perfusion and white matter hyperintensities on magnetic resonance images (MRI) of patients with dementia. The study included 40 subjects, each of whom had undergone both MRI and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies as part of their diagnostic evaluation for degenerative dementia. Two neuroradiologists rated the MRI films for severity of periventricular white matter changes on a 0-5 point scale and severity of subcortical white matter changes on a 0-4 point scale. Twelve regions of interest from association cortex were sampled for the semiquantitative analysis of SPECT images. No relationship was found between these global MRI ratings and semiquantitative or qualitative SPECT findings. Dementia severity as measured by the Mini-Mental State Examination and the Clinical Dementia Rating was significantly correlated with SPECT, whereas age was significantly correlated with MRI ratings, particularly in the periventricular regions. These data support the view that cortical SPECT abnormalities are not associated with global MRI abnormalities in the subcortical and periventricular regions of patients with a clinical picture of degenerative dementia.
Play fighting in rats is most frequent in the juvenile phase (30-40 days) and then wanes following puberty. During the juvenile phase, the most commonly used defensive tactic to block access to the nape (i.e., the play target) is to rotate around the longitudinal axis to supine. From this position of lying on its back, the defender uses its limbs to hold off the attacking pup. With the onset of puberty males, but not females, switch to more adultlike patterns of defense. The adultlike pattern involves partially rotating around the longitudinal axis of the body, but retaining ground contact with the hindpaws. In this position, the defender is able to rear to a defensive upright posture, or can slam into the partner with its hip. In this study, the manner of onset of play fighting and its components was investigated by daily videotaped observations of six litters of Long Evans hooded rats, starting at 15 or 16 days and ending at 30 days postnatally. The predominant form of social interaction in the midteens was allogrooming, but by 20 days, playful attacks to the nape were the most common form of contact. Allogrooming was most often directed to the head, not the nape. With respect to playful defense, the more adultlike tactics matured first, with all tactics present in the repertoire by 20 days. The fully juvenile pattern of defense did not mature until 25-30 days with both males and females exhibiting the same developmental pattern. These data lead to several conclusions. First, play fighting is a separate category of behavior from the outset, and does not emerge from allogrooming. Second, the adultlike defense patterns do not emerge gradually from the juvenile ones at puberty, but rather, all are present in the repertoire from infancy; and third, both males and females have the same pattern of onset of play fighting. These conclusions are discussed with respect to the possible functions of juvenile play fighting.
The trunk neural crest of vertebrate embryos is a transient collection of precursor cells present along the dorsal aspect of the neural tube. These cells migrate on two distinct pathways and give rise to specific derivatives in precise embryonic locations. One group of crest cells migrates early on a ventral pathway and generates neurons and glial cells. A later-dispersing group migrates laterally and gives rise to melanocytes in the skin. These observations raise the possibility that the appearance of distinct derivatives in different embryonic locations is a consequence of lineage restrictions specified before or soon after the onset of neural crest cell migration. To test this notion, we have assessed when and in what order distinct cell fates are specified during neural crest development. We determined the proportions of different types of precursor cells in cultured neural crest populations immediately after emergence from the neural tube and at intervals as development proceeds. We found that the initial neural crest population was a heterogeneous mixture of precursors almost half of which generated single-phenotype clones. Distinct neurogenic and melanogenic sublineages were also present in the outgrowth population almost immediately, but melanogenic precursors dispersed from the neural tube only after many neurogenic precursors had already done so. A discrete fate-restricted neuronal precursor population was distinguished before entirely separate fate-restricted melanocyte and glial precursor populations were present, and well before initial neuronal differentiation. Taken together, our results demonstrate that lineage-restricted subpopulations constitute a major portion of the initial neural crest population and that neural crest diversification occurs well before overt differentiation by the asynchronous restriction of distinct cell fates. Thus, the different morphogenetic and differentiative behavior of neural crest subsets in vivo may result from earlier cell fate-specification events that generate developmentally distinct subpopulations that respond differentially to environmental cues.
A major physical limitation affecting pilots is G-force (+Gz, head-to-foot inertial load) induced loss of consciousness. Previous studies have shown that +Gz produces qualitatively similar effects on human and rat EEG activity. The present study sought to quantitatively correlate changes in rat EEG activity with increasing +Gz levels. A frontal-parietal differential electrode recorded rat EEG data during +Gz exposures (30 s) ranging from +0.5 to +25.0 Gz. Acceleration levels &lt; or = +10 Gz had little effect on EEG activity. Acceleration levels of +15 to +20 Gz were associated with increased EEG slowing, depression and sharp waves. Acceleration levels &gt; or = +17.5 Gz evoked burst suppression followed by isoelectric activity. Times to first onset of delta, depressed, and isoelectric EEG activity were approximately 12, 14 and 18 s, respectively. Acceleration effects on delta (1-4 Hz), theta (5-8 Hz), alpha (9-12 Hz), beta (13-30 Hz) and total (1-30 Hz) EEG powers were examined using Fourier transform analysis. EEG measures with the most predictive value at the following post-acceleration onset times (PAOT) were as follows (in s); increasing theta power: PAOT 0-2, decreasing delta power: PAOT 3-9, and decreasing beta power: PAOT &gt; or = 12. This study provides a quantitative description of +Gz-induced alterations in EEG magnitude, time course and spectral content. Additionally, several EEG measures were identified which correlated with acceleration level at specific post-acceleration onset times.

This article reviews the clinical evidence for cardiac arrhythmias and alterations in heart rate variability (HRV) induced by antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). The medical literature was searched for cases with documented arrhythmias induced by AEDs at therapeutic doses, for systematic studies of the prevalence of arrhythmias related to AED therapy, and for studies on HRV in relation to AED treatment. Phenytoin has been associated predominantly with bradyarrhythmias, some of which were fatal. This has occurred almost exclusively with i.v. administration of the drug. Several reports demonstrate car-bamazepine's depressant effects on the cardiac conduction system. This has occurred mainly in the elderly or in otherwise predisposed patients. There were no reports of arrhythmias induced by other AEDs. Although information on HRV is scarce, treatment with carbamazepine appears to be associated with a decreased HRV. AED-induced cardiac arrhythmias are rare and occur mainly in patient populations different from those with a high incidence of sudden unexpected death. Further studies of HRV and AEDs are needed.
Members of the Bcl-2 family are major regulators of cell death and survival. Bcl-2 has been shown to heterodimerize with the death-inducing protein Bax, but the mechanism of action of Bcl-2 is not fully understood. Here we show, using the human NT-2 neuronal cell line, that overexpression of Bcl-2 leads to dramatic down-regulation of the cysteine proteases ICH and CPP32/Yama, which are directly involved in cell death. In addition, the nuclear enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase was cleaved in control cells but not in cells overexpressing Bcl-2 following induction of apoptosis. The mRNA levels of ICH and CPP32/Yama were differentially affected by Bcl-2 overexpression, suggesting both transcriptional and post-transcriptional effects of the protein. These results demonstrate novel mechanisms of action of Bcl-2 in influencing the expression of death effectors such as the cysteine proteases. The relative levels of Bcl-2 and of various cysteine proteases ultimately determine survival and death of different cells, including neurons.
BatK is a second member of the Csk family of regulatory kinases that phosphorylate a key inhibitory tyrosine on Src family kinases, leading to down-regulation. To investigate the roles of BatK and Csk, both of which are expressed in the brain, we compared their temporal expression patterns during development of the central nervous system (CNS) in rats. BatK mRNA is undetectable at embryonic day 12 (E12), appears in the developing nervous system at approximately E15, and its expression progressively increases up to the time of birth, thereafter remaining high throughout the adult brain. In striking contrast, Csk is highly expressed throughout embryonic development and remains high in the CNS until birth. It is then dramatically down-regulated in the adult brain except in the olfactory bulb. BatK and Csk thus exhibit complementary temporal expression patterns. Since BatK expression correlates with late-stage development and terminal differentiation, we speculated that it might be involved in regulating neuronal differentiation. Using PC12 cells as a model system, we show that overexpression of BatK is sufficient to induce neurite outgrowth in the absence of nerve growth factor. Further, overexpression of BatK activates the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. We propose a model suggesting that, despite overlapping in vitro activities, BatK and Csk regulate different targets in vivo and have different functions during and after neuronal development, BatK being the dominant regulator of Src kinases in the fully differentiated adult brain.
A small number of mRNA species are not restricted to the neuronal cell body, but are also present in neuronal dendrites. The levels of two of these dendritic mRNAs, encoding the microtubule-associated protein MAP2 and the alpha subunit of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CamKIIalpha), are increased rapidly by high-frequency synaptic activity or by release of nitric oxide. To test the hypothesis that post-transcriptional mechanisms might contribute to this modulation, primary cultures of rat hippocampal neurons were exposed to s-nitroso-N-acetyl penicillamine (SNAP, 200 microM) or vehicle, and mRNA stability was determined. The stability of both CamKIIalpha mRNA and MAP2 mRNA was increased by SNAP treatment, whereas the stabilities of tubulin T26 mRNA and proenkephalin mRNA were unaffected. When the intensity of staining for MAP2 immunoreactivity and CamKIIalpha immunoreactivity was monitored in cultured hippocampal neurons, nitric oxide-releasing agents induced increases in staining intensity that were dependent on protein synthesis but not on mRNA synthesis. These results show that nitric oxide can selectively stabilize CamKIIalpha mRNA and MAP2 mRNA, leading to increased synthesis of the corresponding proteins. This demonstrates a mechanism whereby the presence of a particular mRNA in the vicinity of a synapse permits the levels of the protein product to be regulated by synaptic activity in a manner that is both prolonged and also highly localized to the region of stimulation. Thus, the dependence of sustained synaptic plasticity on de novo protein synthesis need not entail a loss of anatomical specificity.
It has been claimed that blockade of receptors for N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) can enhance adenosine receptor function on single neurones. Previous work has also indicated that the NMDA channel blocker dizocilpine, and the A1 selective agonist N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) both had anxiolytic profiles in the elevated plus-maze. The anxiolytic effect of dizocilpine was accompanied by an increase in locomotor activity. In the present study, the elevated plus-maze has been used to determine whether dizocilpine's effects on behaviour are mediated through activation of adenosine receptors. When co-administered with dizocilpine (0.05 mg/kg), CPA (0.05 mg/kg) reduced the anxiolytic and locomotor effects of dizocilpine. The A1 selective antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (CPX, 0.05 mg/kg) had no effect when administered alone. When co-administered with dizocilpine, CPX reversed the anxiolytic and increased locomotor effects induced by dizocilpine. The A2 receptor selective agonist N6-[2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2(2-methylphenyl)ethyladenosine (DPMA) (1 mg/kg) reversed both the anxiolytic effect and the increased locomotion induced by dizocilpine, while the A2 selective antagonist 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX) (1 mg/kg) did not. It is concluded that at least part of the anxiolytic and locomotor stimulant properties of dizocilpine may be explained by the release of endogenous adenosine acting at A1, but not A2 receptors.
In the present study, the sensitivity to sinusoidal linear accelerations in the plane of the utricular macula was tested in afferents. The head orientation relative to the translation axis was varied in order to determine the head position that elicited the maximal and minimal responses for each afferent. The response gain and phase values obtained to 0.5-Hz and 2-Hz linear acceleration stimuli were then plotted as a function of head orientation and a modified cosine function was fit to the data. From the best-fit cosine function, the predicted head orientations that would produce the maximal and minimal response gains were estimated. The estimated maximum response gains to linear acceleration in the utricular plane for the afferents varied between 75 and 1420 spikes s-1 g-1. The mean maximal gains for all afferents to 0.5-Hz and 2-Hz sinusoidal linear acceleration stimuli were 282 and 367 spikes s-1 g-1, respectively. The minimal response gains were essentially zero for most units. The response phases always led linear acceleration and remained constant for each afferent, regardless of head orientation. These response characteristics indicate that otolith afferents are cosine tuned and behave as one-dimensional linear accelerometers. The directions of maximal sensitivity to linear acceleration for the afferents varied throughout the plane of the utricle; however, most vectors were directed out of the opposite ear near the interaural axis. The response dynamics of the afferents were tested using stimulus frequencies ranging between 0.25 Hz and 10 Hz (0.1 g peak acceleration). Across stimulus frequencies, most afferents had increasing gains and constant phase values. These dynamic properties for individual afferents were fit with a simple transfer function that included three parameters: a mechanical time constant, a gain constant, and a fractional order distributed adaptation operator.
Dramatic alterations occur in the developing olfactory bulb when air flow is reduced through one-half of the nasal cavity. Naris closure on the day after the day of birth (P1) in rats, for example, results in reduced cell survival in the ipsilateral bulb by P20 and a substantial (25%) decrease in bulb size by P30. Almost immediate changes in protein synthesis and cell metabolism are also observed, and one prevalent theory suggests that these changes may be important in specifying which cells are subsequently eliminated. In the present study we used a reversible technique for unilateral naris closure to examine the sensitive period for the effects of olfactory deprivation on bulb size and cell survival. This technique involves the insertion of removable plugs into a rat pup's external naris. We occluded the naris for increasing periods of time (P1-P10, P1-P15, or P1-P20), reared all animals to P30, and measured volumes of bulb laminae. In addition, we examined the duration of naris closure needed to affect cell survival by injecting animals with the thymidine analogue bromodeoxyuridine to label cells born soon after the onset of olfactory deprivation. Results indicate that relatively long periods of naris occlusion (P1-P15 or longer) are required to produce a substantial reduction in experimental bulb size. Cell survival was decreased following olfactory deprivation from P1 to P10, but not after deprivation from P1 to P3. These data support the hypothesis that changes that occur within 48 h of naris closure are not sufficient to affect cell survival.
The present study was designed to address two questions. First, can an intrastriatal neural allograft exhibit long-term survival (18 weeks) if the host is immunized by an orthotopic skin graft 6 weeks after neural transplantation (the 6w-Long group)? Second, can an intrastriatal neural allograft survive when the host is challenged by an orthotopic skin allograft either simultaneously (Sim) with the intracerebral graft surgery or 2 (2w) weeks later? Dissociated embryonic ventral mesencephalic tissue from Lewis rats was stereotaxically injected into the striatum of Sprague-Dawley rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. Six weeks after neural grafting, no reduction in amphetamine-induced motor asymmetry was observed in the Sim and 2w groups. At 6 weeks after skin grafting, the mean motor asymmetry scores had returned to the initial pretransplantation levels in the 6w-Long group. All the neural allografts in the Sim group were completely rejected, and the mean number of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity neurons in the grafts was significantly reduced in the 2w and the 6w-Long group, when compared to the no-skin control group. There were very high levels of expression of MHC class I and II antigens, marked cellular infiltrates containing macrophages and T-lymphocytes, and several activated microglia and astrocytes in and around the surviving intracerebral transplants in the 2w and the 6w-Long groups. The results suggest that intrastriatal neural allografts are more likely to be rejected rapidly if the host is efficiently immunized with the same alloantigens simultaneously or soon after the neural transplantation than at a later time point. When established neural allografts are subjected to a strong immunological challenge, they undergo protracted rejection.
Grafting of fetal ventral mesencephalon in Parkinson's disease has been extensively studied. A crucial draw back of this technique is the low survival rate of the dopaminergic neurons. It has been documented that only 5-20% of the grafted neurons survive, and to enhance graft efficacy to a satisfying level, increased cell survival is of utmost desire. In this study we have used the antioxidant tiriliazad mesylate (U-74006F) to study the effect on the survival of dopaminergic neurons after grafting. The in oculo grafting model was used and ventral mesencephalon was dissected from E14-E15 rat fetuses in Hanks' balanced salt solution (HBSS), in Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium (DMEM), or in 0.3, 3.0, or 30 microM U-74006F diluted in DMEM. The tissue was then inserted into the anterior chamber of the eye. Some of the transplants were further treated with intraocular injections of 3 or 30 microM U-74006F (5 microliters) weekly for 2 weeks. Quantification of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive profiles revealed that in transplants treated with U-74006F at dissection only, no change in the number of TH-positive neurons was found. Pretreatment of 0.3 microM U-74006F during dissection combined with intraocular injections of U-74006F after grafting, on the other hand, resulted in a dose-dependent enhancement of survival of TH-positive neurons. Dissection in, and intraocular treatment with, 3 microM U-74006F resulted in a significantly enhanced survival of TH-positive neurons whereas using U-74006F at a concentration of 30 microM did not change the cell survival compared to solely DMEM-treated grafts. Thus, 30 microM was interpreted to be an overdose. Comparing cell survival when dissected in DMEM with that dissected in HBSS showed that DMEM was clearly superior. Nerve fiber formation was most pronounced in grafts treated with 3 microM U-74006F. In conclusion, survival of TH-positive neurons is enhanced by U-74006F, which is readily available for clinical use and thus could be employed to enhance graft survival when transplanting patients suffering from Parkinson's disease.
Using the technique of homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells, we generated mice bearing a targeted disruption of the gene encoding the neurofilament light (NF-L) protein. The absence of NF-L protein in mice resulted in dramatic declines of approximately 20-fold in the levels of neurofilament medium and heavy proteins in the brain and sciatic nerve while increases were detected for other cytoskeletal proteins such as tubulin and GAP-43. Despite a lack of neurofilaments and hypotrophy of axons, the NF-L knockout mice develop normally and do not exhibit overt phenotypes. However, in both NF-L -/- and NF-L +/- mice, the regeneration of myelinated axons following crush injury of peripheral nerves was found to be abnormal. In the second week after axotomy, the number of newly regenerated myelinated axons in the sciatic nerve and facial nerve of NF-L -/- mice corresponded to only approximately 25 and approximately 5% of the number of myelinated axons found in normal mice, respectively. At this early postaxotomy stage, electron microscopy of nerve segments distal to the crush site in NF-L -/- mice revealed abundant clusters of axonal sprouts that were indicative of retarded maturation of regenerating fibers. The analysis of the distal sciatic nerve at 2 months after crush indicated that neurofilament-deficient axons have the capacity to regrow for a long distance and to remyelinate, albeit at a slower rate. These results provide the first direct evidence for a role of neurofilaments in the maturation of regenerating myelinated axons.
The effects of the synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 on dopamine receptor-mediated alleviation of akinesia were evaluated in the reserpine-treated rat model of parkinsonism. The dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole (0.1 mg/kg, ip) caused a significant alleviation of the akinesia. This effect was significantly reduced by coinjection with the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg). The simultaneous administration of the cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR 141716A (3 mg/kg, ip) with quinpirole and WIN 55,212-2 blocked the effect of WIN 55,212-2 on quinpirole-induced alleviation of akinesia. The selective dopamine D1 receptor agonist chloro-APB (SKF82958, 0.1 mg/kg) alleviated akinesia in a significant manner. WIN 55,212-2 (0.1-1 mg/kg, ip) did not affect the antiakinetic effect of chloro-APB. Combined injection of both D1 and D2 dopamine receptor agonists (both at either 0.1 or 0.02 mg/kg) resulted in a marked synergism of the antiakinetic effect. WIN 55,212-2 (0.1-1 mg/kg) significantly reduced the antiakinetic effect of combined injections of quinpirole and chloro-APB at both 0.1 and 0.02 mg/kg. The effect of 0.3 mg/kg WIN 55,212-2 on combined D1 and D2 agonist-induced locomotion (0.02 mg/kg) was blocked by SR 141761A (3 mg/kg). Neither WIN 55,212-2 alone (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) nor SR 141716A (3 and 30 mg/kg) alone had an antiparkinsonian effect. These results suggest that cannabinoids may modulate neurotransmission in the pathway linking the striatum indirectly to basal ganglia outputs via the lateral globus pallidus and the subthalamic nucleus.
Systemically administered kainate (10 mg.kg-1) caused neuronal loss in both the hippocampus and the entorhinal regions of the rat brain. This resulted in a loss of 68.3 +/- 13.8 and 53.3 +/- 12.8% of pyramidal neurones in the hippocampal CA1 and CA3a regions, respectively. Chlormethiazole attenuated the loss of neurones in the hippocampal cell layers CA1 (cell loss 10 +/- 3.2%) and CA3a (cell loss 10 +/- 7.7%). The neuroprotective activity of chlormethiazole was apparent in the presence or absence of a low dose of clonazepam (200 micrograms.kg-1 i.p.). The kainate-induced damage could also be measured by the increase in binding of the peripheral benzodiazepine ligand ([3H]PK11195) in the hippocampus. In kainate-treated rats there was a 350-500% increase in binding indicative of reactive gliosis. Chlormethiazole prevented this elevation in a dose- and time-dependent manner, with an ED50 of 10.64 mg.kg-1 and an effective therapeutic window from 1 to 4 h posttreatment. Dizocilpine also attenuated damage significantly. The GABAA agonist muscimol was also able to attenuate the increase in [3H]PK11195 binding in a dose-dependent manner, with an ED50 of approximately 0.1 mg.kg-1. If muscimol, dizocilpine, or the adenosine A1 receptor agonist R-N6-phenylisopropyl-adenosine were administered together with chlormethiazole at their respective ED25 doses, a potentiation was apparent in the degree of neuroprotection. It is concluded that the combination of neuroprotective agents with different mechanisms of action can lead to a synergistic protection against excitotoxicity.
Previous studies have revealed that a single electroconvulsive seizure (ECS) strongly induces glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression in astrocytes in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. The signals that trigger this induction are not known, but circumstantial evidence suggests the hypothesis that GFAP expression may be induced as a result of the induction of growth factor expression by dentate granule cells that also occurs as a result of the ECS and other types of seizures. The present study tests one prediction of this hypothesis by evaluating whether increases in GFAP mRNA levels after ECS are blocked by inhibiting protein synthesis at various times after the ECS. We report that the upregulation of GFAP expression following ECS is blocked by protein synthesis inhibitors given 5 min before or up to 12 h after a single ECS. This temporal gradient suggests an intermediate step involving the increased expression of a protein growth factor.
Telomeres protect the ends of linear chromosomes from degradation and abnormal recombination events, and in vertebrates may be important in cellular senescence and cancer. However, very little is known about the structure of human telomeres. In this report we purify telomeres and analyze their termini. We show that following replication the daughter telomeres have different terminal overhangs in normal diploid telomerase-negative human fibroblasts. Electron microscopy of those telomeres that have long overhangs yields 200 +/- 75 nucleotides of single-stranded DNA. This overhang is four times greater than the amount of telomere shortening per division found in these cells. These results are consistent with models of telomere replication in which leading-strand synthesis generates a blunt end while lagging-strand synthesis produces a long G-rich 3' overhang, and suggest that variations in lagging-strand synthesis may regulate the rate of telomere shortening in normal diploid human cells. Our results do not exclude the possibility that nuclease processing events following leading strand synthesis result in short overhangs on one end.
We have established a cell line cloned from primary-cultured microglia obtained from p53-deficient mice. The cell line, MG5, could be grown in astrocyte-conditioned medium and has been maintained for more than a year. MG5 cells are immunocytochemically positive for Mac-1 and F4/80 antibody and express the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I antigen, leukocyte function-associated antigen-1, leukocyte common antigen, and intercellular adhesion molecular-1 mRNA. Interferon-gamma enhanced the expression of MHC class II antigen mRNA in MG5 cells. We previously identified a novel calcium-binding protein, Iba1 (ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1), which is highly and specifically expressed in cultured microglia. Iba1 protein was also immunocytochemically demonstrated in MG5 cells. The cells retained non-specific esterase activity, 5'-nucleotidase activity, acid phosphatase activity, and phagocytic ability. Like primary cultured microglia from wild-type mice, MG5 cells released nitric oxide in response to lipopolysaccharide, and actively proliferated in the presence of mitogenic factors such as macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF), granulocyte/macrophage-CSF (GM-CSF), and interleukin-3 (IL-3). Tyrosine-phosphorylation of M-CSF receptor in MG5 cells was induced by the addition of M-CSF or astrocyte-conditioned medium. These findings indicate that MG5 cells preserve the morphological, biochemical, and physiological properties of primary-cultured microglia well. The MG5 cell line will be a useful tool for studying microglial function.
The short-term in-patent facility of the Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Unit in the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bangalore is described. Its clientele over one year is reviewed. Totally 152 admissions were made. Hysterical neurosis (30.8%), Psychoses (25.2%), Conduct disorder (10.5%) and Hyperkinetic syndrome (9.8%) were the most common diagnoses observed in this population who needed short-term intervention. Average duration of stay was 4-12 weeks. All children were admitted with a parent. In 95.8% of the cases the treatment expenses were borne partially/fully by the hospital. The policy and functioning of the facility is discussed.
Plasminogen activators are considered to be involved in several developmental events. The present work aims at characterizing the developmental pattern of expression of plasminogen activators in the chick cerebellum. Soluble fractions derived by ultracentrifugation from Triton X-100 treated membrane fractions were used for determination of the enzyme activity with a radial fibrinolytic assay. By using specific inhibitors and different anti-plasminogen activators antibodies it is shown that only one type of the enzyme, the urokinase-type plasminogen activator, is expressed during the cerebellum ontogeny. Our results show the existence of a bimodal pattern of enzyme activity with two peaks that temporally coincide with the processes of massive neuronal migration, neurite outgrowth and synapse formation and plasticity. It is proposed that plasminogen activator could play a role in these developmental events and that its pattern of variability is developmentally regulated.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is associated with an increased risk of falling resulting from visual disturbances, difficulties with gait and balance, apraxia of gait and peripheral neuropathy. These factors often interact synergistically to compromise the patient's gait stability. It has long been recognized that walking involves a cognitive component and that simultaneous cognitive and motor operations (dual-task) such as talking while walking may interfere with normal ambulation. Talking while walking reflects an example of a dual-task which is frequently impaired in MS patients. Impaired dual-task performance during walking may compromise the patient's gait and explain why in some circumstances, MS patients unexpectedly lose their balance and fall. Frontal lobe dysfunction, which commonly occurs in MS patients, may disrupt dual-task performance and increase the risk of falling in these patients. This report concerns a 36 old man with remitting-progressive MS with an EDSS score of 5.5 who experienced marked increase in spasticity in the legs and trunk and worsening of his gait and balance, occasionally resulting in falling, when talking while walking. His gait and balance improved dramatically after he received two successive transcranial treatments, each of 45 minutes, with AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) of 7.5 picotesla flux density. Simultaneously, there was improvement in dual-task performance to the extent that talking while walking did not adversely affect his ambulation. In addition, neuropsychological testing revealed an almost 5-fold increase in word output on the Thurstone's Word-Fluency Test, which is sensitive to frontal lobe dysfunction. It is suggested that facilitation of dual-task performance during ambulation contributes to the overall improvement of gait and balance observed in MS patients receiving transcranial treatment with AC pulsed EMFs.
A 52 year old fully medicated physician with juvenile onset Parkinsonism experienced 4 years ago severe &quot;on-off&quot; fluctuations in motor disability and debilitating speech impairment with severe stuttering which occurred predominantly during &quot;on-off&quot; periods. His speech impairment improved 20%-30% when sertraline (75 mg/day), a serotonin reuptake inhibitor, was added to his dopaminergic medications which included levodopa, amantadine, selegiline and pergolide mesylate. A more dramatic and consistent improvement in his speech occurred over the past 4 years during which time the patient received, on a fairly regular basis, weekly transcranial treatments with AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) of picotesla flux density. Recurrence of speech impairment was observed on several occasions when regular treatments with EMFs were temporarily discontinued. These findings demonstrate that AC pulsed applications of picotesla flux density EMFs may offer a nonpharmacologic approach to the management of speech disturbances in Parkinsonism. Furthermore, this case implicates cerebral serotonergic deficiency in the pathogenesis of Parkinsonian speech impairment which affects more than 50% of patients. It is believed that pulsed applications of EMFs improved this patient's speech impairment through the facilitation of serotonergic transmission which may have occurred in part through a synergistic interaction with sertraline.
Adult female Sprague Dawley rats were administrated 0.1 ml Kaolin (250 mg/ml) into cisterna magna. One, 4 and 8 weeks later, brains were analyzed using antibodies against MHC class I (OX18), MHC class II (OX6), CD4 (OX38), CD8 (OX8), OX42, ED1, NF, GFAP, AChE and TH. Remarkably high numbers of T lymphocytes, and OX42- and ED1-positive macrophages were found aggregated in subarachnoid spaces, and in the third and fourth ventricles. Marked aggregations of ED1-positive reactive microglial cells were also found in paraventricular structures, medial septum, retrosplenic cortex and commissural structures. However, no such cells were found in hippocampus. ED1-positive areas were also positive for round cells with a rim of MHC I fluorescent cytoplasm as well as for OX42-positive cells and MHC II positive microglial cells. At week 1, in ventro-frontal areas of cortex, CD8-positive cells and MHC I positive astroglial fibers were detected. At week 1, MHC I positive ramified microglial cells were also recognized in almost the entire brain. These positive cells gradually decreased with time and finally remained rounded with a rim of fluorescent cytoplasm. In addition, ED1 positive partly ramified microglial cells could be recognized in corpus callosum, probably representing cells in transition between ramified and reactive microglia. CD8+ cells entered ventral brain structures, and were found in the horizontal diagonal band at week 4, and had disappeared at week 8. Finally in cortex, ED1 positive microglial cells could be identified only in the retrosplenic cortex, and there were also &quot;dark shrunken neurons&quot; in light microscopic stainings. However, there was only a moderate GFAP positive gliosis. In conclusion, kaolin-induced hydrocephalus leads to immune reactions in several defined areas such as cholinergic systems, corpus callosum, circumventricular organs, pontine cerebellar peduncles and the vestibular nucleus.
The authors used a Stroop negative priming paradigm to examine the effects of antipsychotic medication on selective attentional processes. The performance of 14 patients with schizophrenia who were withdrawn from neuroleptic medication was compared with that of 10 medicated patients and 16 matched controls. Results demonstrated an increase in negative priming to normal levels with neuroleptic therapy. In contrast, within-trial interference and facilitation effects appeared to be less sensitive to medication therapy. The sustainment of inhibitory processes over time may differentiate the inhibitory mechanisms of the medication-withdrawn patients from both the medicated patients and the matched controls. The study of sequential inhibitory processes and their response to neuroleptic treatment could be important methods for understanding the temporal parameters associated with inhibition in schizophrenia.
Previous studies on how an increase in intra-abdominal pressure (IAP) effects the loading of the lumbar spine during back extension show diverging results. From a critical review of the literature we deduce a simplified, but consistent, model of the mechanisms involved in IAP-induced unloading of the lumbar spine. The model is then expanded by explicitly incorporating equilibrium equations for the pressurised abdomen and the abdominal wall. It is shown that the unloading effect of IAP can be viewed as that of a pressurised column of fixed cross-sectional area, between the rib cage and pelvis. Different abdominal forms are examined and a form with zero longitudinal curvature is found to have some important mechanical benefits for the generation of IAP-induced alleviation of compressive loading of the lumbar spine.
The role of myosin isoforms in determining contractile filament velocity in the atrium and ventricle of the pig heart was studied by measuring the motion of fluorescently labeled actin over myosin (in vitro motility assay). A rapid and relatively simple method for purification of myosin from small tissue samples was used. The relative extent of light chain-2 phosphorylation was about 30% in both atrial and ventricular myosin extracts. Although the extracted myosin was not free from contaminating proteins, mainly actin, the mean velocity at optimal pH and 32 degrees C of both atrial (3.3 microns/s) and ventricular (2.3 microns/s) myosin were similar to those obtained using extensively purified myosin. The filament sliding velocities using isolated myosin and actin are lower than those estimated from previously published experiments on skinned fiber preparations, which might reflect an influence on sliding velocity by the filament organization or regulatory proteins in the muscle fiber. However, the ratio between velocities of atrial and ventricular myosin was similar in the motility assay (1.5) and muscle fiber experiments (1.6), which might suggest that these two methods reflect the same fundamental processes in cardiac contraction and that the difference in filament sliding velocity between the atrium and ventricle of the pig heart is determined my their myosin isoforms.
A potentially rate-limiting step in cancer progression is the conversion of a normal human cell into one capable of indefinite proliferation. There are at least two different cellular mechanisms that must be overcome before immortalization occurs. The first step generally requires inactivation of the pathways involving two tumor-suppressor genes, p53 and pRB, and the second step almost always involves the reactivation of the ribonucleoprotein enzyme telomerase. Telomerase synthesizes hexameric repeats (TTAGGG) onto telomeric ends, thereby compensating for telomeric losses that in its absence occurs at each cell division. Telomerase is present in human embryonic tissues, is not detected in most adult tissues, but is upregulated or reactivated in almost 90% of all human cancers. In the present article, I review the telomere-telomerase theory of aging and cancer including the roles of telomerase during human development, in differentiation, and in cancer. Research into the regulation of this enzyme may lead to methods to facilitate the accurate diagnosis of cancer and to the development of novel antitelomerase cancer therapeutics.
Increasing clinical and experimental evidence suggests that traumatic brain injury (TBI) elicits an acute inflammatory response. In the present study we investigated whether white blood cells (WBC) are activated in the cerebral microcirculation early after TBI and whether WBC accumulation affects the posttraumatic cerebrovascular response. Twenty-four anesthetized rabbits had chronic cranial windows implanted 3 weeks before experimentation. Animals were divided into four experimental groups and were studied for 7 hours (groups I, IIa, and III) or 2 hours (group IIb). Intravital fluorescence videomicroscopy was used to visualize WBC (rhodamine 6G, intravenously), pial vessel diameters, and blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity (Na+-fluorescein) at 6 hours (groups I, IIa, and III) or 1 hour (group IIb) after TBI. Group I (n = 5) consisted of sham-operated animals. Groups IIa (n = 7) and IIb (n = 5) received fluid-percussion injury at 1 hour. Group III (n = 7) received fluid-percussion injury and 1 mg/kg anti-adhesion monoclonal antibody (MoAb) &quot;IB4&quot; 5 minutes before injury. Venular WBC sticking, intracranial pressure (ICP), and arterial vessel diameters increased significantly for 6 hours after trauma. IB4 reduced WBC margination and prevented vasodilation. Intracranial pressure was not reduced by treatment with IB4. Blood-brain barrier damage occurred at 1 hour but not at 6 hours after TBI and was independent of WBC activation. This first report using intravital videomicroscopy to study the inflammatory response after TBI reveals upregulated interaction between WBC and cerebral endothelium that can be manipulated pharmacologically. White blood cell activation is associated with pial arteriolar vasodilation. White blood cells do not induce BBB breakdown less than 6 hours after TBI and do not contribute to posttraumatic ICP elevation. The role of WBC more than 6 hours after TBI should be investigated further.
In the cerebral circulation, endothelin-A receptor activation mediates marked prolonged vasoconstriction whereas endothelin-B (ETB) receptor activation effects dilation. In contrast to some peripheral vascular beds, ET(B) receptor-induced vasoconstriction has not yet been demonstrated in brain vessels. In this study in chloralose-anesthetized cats, with perivascular microapplications of ET(B) selective agonist (BQ-3020) and antagonist (BQ-788), we investigated whether ET(B) receptor-mediated constriction could be uncovered in cortical arterioles in vivo. In addition, we examined whether normal dilator response to ET(B) receptor activation is preserved in postischemic cerebral arterioles. The first microapplication of the selective ET(B) receptor agonist BQ-3020 (1 micromol/L) onto a pial cortical arteriole elicited marked dilation (caliber increased by 26.3 +/- 15.1% from preinjection baseline). A second application of BQ-3020 (10-minute interval) onto the same vessel failed to evoke any significant vasomotor response. Subsequent (third and fourth) adventitial microapplication of the ET(B) receptor agonist on the same arteriolar site effected a significant constriction of cerebral arterioles (-15.3 +/- 12.7% and -9.7 +/- 6.3% from preinjection baseline, respectively, at 20 and 30 minutes after the first application). The pial arterioles did not display tachyphylaxis to repeated applications of potassium (10 mmol/L). The perivascular application of the ET(B) receptor antagonist BQ-788 (0.001 to 1 micromol/L) had no effect on arteriolar caliber per se but blocked both BQ-3020-induced dilation (inhibitory concentration approximately 5 nmol/L) and vasoconstriction elicited by repeated activation of ET(B) receptors. After middle cerebral artery occlusion, most of the arterioles examined displayed a sustained dilation. The microapplication of BQ-3020 into the perivascular space surrounding postischemic dilated arterioles elicited a constriction of a similar magnitude to that induced by application of CSF (-17 +/- 7% and -17 +/- 7% from preinjection baseline, respectively). The adventitial microapplication of the ET(B) receptor antagonist (BQ-788, 0.1 micromol/L) on postocclusion dilated pial arterioles effected no change in the arteriolar caliber when compared with preinjection baseline. This BQ-788-induced response was significantly different from that induced by perivascular microinjection of CSF (P &lt; 0.001, analysis of variance). These investigations indicate that (1) repeated activation of ET(B) receptors displays tachyphylaxis of the vasodilator response but also uncovers significant constriction of cerebral arterioles in vivo; (2) the ability of BQ-3020 to elicit dilation is lost within 30 minutes of induced focal ischemia; and (3) ET(B)-mediated contractile tone contributes in a small but significant manner in limiting postischemia dilation of cortical pial arterioles.
Considerable urinary excretion of dopamine metabolites indicates that large amounts of dopamine are produced in unknown locations of the body. This study assessed the contribution of mesenteric organs (gastrointestinal tract, spleen, and pancreas) to the total body production of dopamine in humans and examined the presence of the rate-limiting enzyme for dopamine synthesis, tyrosine hydroxylase, in gastrointestinal tissues. Blood sampled from an artery and portal and hepatic veins in eight subjects and from arterial and renal venous sites in other subjects was analyzed for plasma concentrations of dopamine and its metabolites. The activity and distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase was also examined in tissue samples from the stomach and duodenum. Higher concentrations of dopamine and its metabolites in portal venous than arterial plasma indicated substantial production of dopamine by mesenteric organs (12.0 nmol/min) amounting to 42-46% of the renal removal of circulating dopamine metabolites. Tissue samples showed immunoreactive tyrosine hydroxylase in nonneuronal cell bodies and detectable levels of tyrosine hydroxylase in nonneuronal cell bodies and detectable levels of tyrosine hydroxylase enzyme activity. The results show that mesenteric organs produce close to half of the dopamine formed in the body, most of which is unlikely to be derived from sympathetic nerves but may reflect production in a novel nonneuronal dopaminergic system.


Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) to words, pseudowords, and nonwords were recorded in three different tasks. A letter search task was used in Experiment 1. Performance was affected by whether the target letter occurred in a word, a pseudoword, or a random nonword. ERP results corroborated the behavioral results, showing small but reliable ERP differences between the three stimulus types. Words and pseudowords differed from nonwords at posterior sites, whereas words differed from pseudowords and nonwords at anterior sites. Since deciding whether the target letter was present or absent co-occurred with stimulus processing in Experiment 1, a delayed letter search task was used in Experiment 2. ERPs to words and pseudowords were similar and differed from ERPs to nonwords, suggesting a primary role of orthographic and phonological processing in the delayed letter search task. To increase semantic processing, a categorization task was used in Experiment 3. Early differences between ERPs to words and pseudowords at left posterior and anterior locations suggested a rapid activation of lexico-semantic information. These findings suggest that the use of ERPs in a multiple task design makes it possible to track the time course and the activation of multiple sources of linguistic information when processing words, pseudowords, and nonwords. The task-dependent nature of the effects suggests that the language system can use multiple sources of linguistic information in flexible and adaptive ways.
The internal carotid arteries were drawn as region of interests (ROIs) on proton density weighted MR images. After transferring the ROIs from the MR to the PET images from the same subject, time-radioactivity curves were calculated for each ROI and the radioactivity curves were used for determination of the blood input function in dynamic brain PET studies. The method is validated by comparing measurements with those from an external on-line continuous flow-through arterial blood-sampling system.
Judgments of learning (JOLs) made after a 5-min delay are almost perfectly accurate: the &quot;delayed-JOL effect&quot; (T. O. Nelson &amp; J. Dunlosky, 1991). The mechanisms underlying this phenomenon have been the subject of debate. This study examined the effects of delays and short-term memory (STM) distraction on memory and metamemory (JOLs). STM distraction (2.5-30 s) immediately following encoding increased both JOL accuracy and mean cued recall. However, JOLs made after longer delays (4-5 min) were even more accurate. In addition, making a JOL at longer delays improved cued-recall performance. Conditional probabilities of cued recall (given successful initial retrieval) also increased over time and with interference, indicating that delayed JOLs may alter what they assess. Finally, increased confidence was associated with shorter JOL latencies only at delays. The results are consistent with an accessibility view of metamemory (e.g., A. Koriat, 1993).
The neuropeptide Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-amide (FMRFa) dose dependently (ED50 = 23 nM) activated a K+ current in the peptidergic caudodorsal neurones that regulate egg laying in the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis. Under standard conditions ([K+]o = 1.7 mM), only outward current responses occurred. In high K+ salines ([K+]o = 20 or 57 mM), current reversal occurred close to the theoretical reversal potential for K+. In both salines, no responses were measured below -120 mV. Between -120 mV and the K+ reversal potential, currents were inward with maximal amplitudes at approximately -60 mV. Thus, U-shaped current-voltage relations were obtained, implying that the response is voltage dependent. The conductance depended both on membrane potential and extracellular K+ concentration. The voltage sensitivity was characterized by an e-fold change in conductance per approximately 14 mV at all [K+]o. Since this result was also obtained in nearly symmetrical K+ conditions, it is concluded that channel gating is voltage dependent. In addition, outward rectification occurs in asymmetric K+ concentrations. Onset kinetics of the response were slow (rise time approximately 650 ms at -40 mV). However, when FMRFa was applied while holding the cell at -120 mV, to prevent activation of the current but allow activation of the signal transduction pathway, a subsequent step to -40 mV revealed a much more rapid current onset. Thus, onset kinetics are largely determined by steps preceding channel activation. With FMRFa applied at -120 mV, the time constant of activation during the subsequent test pulse decreased from approximately 36 ms at -60 mV to approximately 13 ms at -30 mV, confirming that channel opening is voltage dependent. The current inactivated voltage dependently. The rate and degree of inactivation progressively increased from -120 to -50 mV. The current is blocked by internal tetraethylammonium and by bath- applied 4-aminopyridine, tetraethylammonium, Ba2+, and, partially, Cd2+ and Cs+. The response to FMRFa was affected by intracellular GTPgammaS. The response was inhibited by blockers of phospholipase A2 and lipoxygenases, but not by a cyclo-oxygenase blocker. Bath-applied arachidonic acid induced a slow outward current and occluded the response to FMRFa. These results suggest that the FMRFa receptor couples via a G-protein to the lipoxygenase pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism. The biophysical and pharmacological properties of this transmitter operated, but voltage-dependent K+ current distinguish it from other receptor-driven K+ currents such as the S-current- and G-protein-dependent inward rectifiers.
We tested the validity of the 48-Pictures Test, a 2-alternative forced-choice recognition test, in detecting exaggerated memory impairments. This test maximizes subjective difficulty, through a large number of stimuli and shows minimal objective difficulty. We compared 17 suspected malingerers to 39 patients with memory impairments (6 amnesic, 15 frontal lobe dysfunctions, 18 other etiologies), and 17 normal adults instructed to simulate malingering on three memory tests: the 48-Pictures Test, the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT), and the Rey Complex Figure Test (RCFT). On the 48-Pictures Test, the clinical groups showed good recognition performance (amnesics: 85%; frontal dysfunction: 94%; other memory impairments: 97%), whereas the two simulator groups showed a poor performance (suspected malingerers: 62% correct; volunteer simulators 68% correct). The two other tests did not show a high degree of discrimination between the clinical groups and the simulator groups, except in 2 measures: the 2 simulator groups tended to show a performance decrement from the last recall trial to immediate recognition of the RAVLT and also performed better than the clinical groups on the immediate recall of the RCFT. A discriminant analysis with the latter 2 measures and the 48-Pictures Test correctly classified 96% of the participants. These results suggest that the 48-Pictures Test is a useful tool for the detection of possible simulated memory impairment and that when combined to the RAVLT recall-recognition difference score and to the immediate recall score on the RCFT can provide strong evidence of exaggerated memory impairment.
The anterior forebrain (AF) pathway of songbirds has an essential but poorly understood function during song learning, a process requiring auditory experience. Consistent with a role in processing auditory information, two nuclei of the AF, the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (IMAN) and Area X (X), contain some of the most complex auditory neurons known. In adult zebra finches, these neurons are strongly selective for both spectral and temporal properties of song: They respond more robustly to the bird's own song (BOS) than to songs of conspecific individuals, and they respond less well to BOS if it is played in reverse. IMAN and X neurons of young finches early in the process of song learning (30-45 days of age) are also song responsive, but lack the song and order selectivity present in adult birds. By an intermediate stage of learning (60 days), when birds have experience of both tutor song and their own developing (plastic) song, AF neurons have significant song and order selectivity for both tutor song and BOS (in this case, plastic song). The degree of BOS selectivity is still less than that found in adults, however. In addition, neurons at 60 days are heterogenous in their preference for BOS versus tutor song: Most prefer BOS, some prefer tutor song, and others respond equally to both songs. The selectivity of adult AF auditory neurons therefore arises rapidly during development in neurons that are initially unselective. These neurons are one of the clearest examples of experience-dependent acquisition of complex stimulus selectivity. Moreover, the neural selectivity for both BOS and tutor song at 60 days raises the possibility that experience of both songs during learning contributes to the properties of individual AF neurons.
Recent studies on several species of oscine songbirds show that they achieve their varied vocal performances through coordinated activity of respiratory, syringeal, and other vocal tract muscles in ways that take maximum advantage of the acoustic flexibility made possible by the presence of two independently controlled sound sources in their bipartite syrinx (vocal organ). During song, special motor programs to respiratory muscles alter the pattern of ventilation to maintain the supply of respiratory air and oxygen to permit songs of long duration, high syllable repetition rates, or maximum spectral complexity. Each side of the syrinx receives its own motor program that, together with that sent to respiratory muscles, determines the acoustic properties of the ipsilaterally produced sound. The acoustic expression of these bilaterally distinct, phonetic motor patterns depends on the action of dorsal syringeal adductor muscles that, by opening or closing the ipsilateral side of the syrinx to airflow, determine the amount each side contributes to song. The syringeally generated sound is further modified by muscles that control the shape of the vocal tract. Different species have adopted different motor strategies that use the left and right sides of the syrinx in patterns of unilateral, bilateral, alternating, or sequential phonation to achieve the differing temporal and spectral characteristics of their songs. As a result, the degree of song lateralization probably varies between species to form a continuum from unilateral dominance to bilateral equality.
Growth-associated phosphoprotein B-50 is a neural protein kinase C (PKC) substrate enriched in nerve growth cones that has been implicated in growth cone plasticity. Here we investigated whether B-50 is a physiological substrate for casein kinase II (CKII) in purified rat cortical growth cone preparations. Using site-specific proteolysis and known modulators of PKC, in combination with immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry, and phosphoamino acid analysis, we demonstrate that endogenous growth cone B-50 is phosphorylated at multiple sites, on both serine and threonine residues. Consistent with previous reports, stimulation of PKC activity increased the phosphorylation of only those proteolytic fragments containing Ser41. Under basal conditions, however, phosphorylation was predominantly associated with fragments not containing Ser41. Mass spectrometry of tryptic digests of B-50, which had been immunoprecipitated from untreated growth cones, revealed that in situ phosphorylation occurs within peptides B-50(181-198) and B-50(82-98). These peptides contain the major and minor in vitro CKII phosphosites, respectively. In addition, cyanogen bromide digestion of immunoprecipitated chick B-50 generated a 4-kDa C-terminal B-50 phosphopeptide, confirming that phosphorylation of the CKII domain occurs across evolutionary diverse species. We conclude that B-50 in growth cones is not only a substrate for PKC, but also for CKII.
The human dopamine D4 receptor (hD4R), which has been implicated in human diseases such as schizophrenia and in a personality trait called &quot;novelty seeking,&quot; has not yet been characterized at the protein level. Following epitope scanning of the hD4R, we have produced a highly specific monoclonal antibody named DFR1 raised against an amino-terminal peptide in a predicted extracellular region of the receptor. DFR1 decorated recombinant hD4Rs on the surface of intact Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells by flow cytometry and fluorescence microscopy and also recognized recombinant hD4.2, hD4.4, and hD4.7 receptor isoforms by western blot analysis. When expressed stably in CHO cells, all three hD4R isoforms contained N-linked glycosylation and showed apparent molecular masses of 48, 55, and 67 kDa for hD4.2, hD4.4, and hD4.7, respectively. DFR1 immunoreactivity representing hD4R protein or dopamine D4 receptor-like antigens was observed in crude membrane extracts of postmortem human brain tissue by immunoblotting. The DFR1 antibody provides a new immunological tool with the potential to further our understanding of the human dopamine D4 receptor protein.
Neuropathy target esterase (NTE) activity is defined operatively as the paraoxon-resistant mipafox-sensitive phenyl valerate esterase activity. A preparation containing a soluble isoform (S-NTE2) has been obtained from sciatic nerve. It was inhibited by the biotinylated organophosphorous ester S9B [1-(saligenin cyclic phospho)-9-biotinyldiaminononane] in a progressive manner showing a second-order rate constant of (3.50 +/- 0.26) x 10(6) M(-1) x min(-1) with an I50 for 30 min of 6.6 +/- 0.4 nM. S-NTE2 was enriched 218-fold by gel filtration followed by strong and weak anion-exchange chromatographies in HPLC. In western blots, this enriched sample showed two bands of endogenous biotinylated polypeptides after treating the blots with streptavidin-alkaline phosphatase complex. When the sample was treated with S9B, another biotinylated band was observed with a molecular mass of approximately 56 kDa, which was not seen when the sample had been pretreated with mipafox before the S9B labeling. It was deduced that this band represents a polypeptide (identified as the S-NTE2 protein) that is bound by both mipafox and S9B and that should be responsible for the progressive S9B inhibition. It is possible that S-NTE2 is the target for attack by compounds that promote delayed neuropathy.
The role of the transvesicular protonmotive force in synaptic vesicle recycling was investigated in cultured cerebellar granule cells. The vesicular V-ATPase was inhibited by 1 microM bafilomycin A1; as an alternative, the pH component of the gradient was selectively collapsed by equilibration of the cells with 10 mM methylamine and monitored with the fluorescent probe Lysosensor Green. Electrical field-evoked exocytosis of D-[3H]aspartate was inhibited by bafilomycin A1 but not by methylamine, indicating that a transvesicular membrane potential rather than pH gradient is required for transmitter retention within vesicles. In contrast, neither compound affected the field-evoked uptake, recycling, or destaining of the vesicle-specific dye FM2-10; thus, vesicles whose lumens were neutral and/or depleted of transmitter could still recycle in the nerve terminal. No exhaustion of D-[3H]aspartate exocytosis was observed when cells were subjected to six consecutive trains of field stimuli (40 Hz/10 s separated by 10 s). In contrast, the release of preloaded FM2-10 was reduced by approximately 50%, with each stimulus indicating that unlabeled vesicles with accumulated D-[3H]aspartate were competing with labeled vesicles for exocytosis. As D-[3H]aspartate was accumulated rapidly across the vesicle membrane from the large cytoplasmic pool, the transmitter-loaded but unlabelled vesicles may represent refilled recycling vesicles. FM2-10 destaining and D-[3H]aspartate exocytosis were reduced in parallel at low frequencies, challenging a role for transient vesicle fusion.
A new neuronal cell line was generated by transfection of rat olfactory epithelium with immortalizing recombinant oncogene E1A of adenovirus-2. The resulting 13.S.1.24 line of transformed cells expressed an antigenic phenotype of olfactory neuronal progenitors. Addition of dopamine to 13.S.1.24 cultures induced reduction of cell number within 2 days. Two hallmarks of apoptosis were detected in dopamine-treated cultures: internucleosomal DNA fragmentation and nuclear condensation. Dopamine did not alter the cell proliferation rate, as assessed by [3H]thymidine incorporation. Dopamine also stimulated differentiation of surviving 13.S.1.24 cells into bipolar olfactory marker protein-immunoreactive neurons. Time-dependency assessments over 1 week of treatment indicated that apoptosis and differentiation induced by dopamine were concomitant. Both apoptosis and differentiation triggered by dopamine were dose-dependent, half-maximal effects being obtained with approximately 10 microM dopamine. Mediation of both effects by dopaminergic D2 receptors was supported by several observations: active dopamine doses in micromolar ranges, quinpirole agonism and eticlopride antagonism, D2-characteristic rank order of potency among the three agonists tested, and specific binding of a selective D2-like radioligand to 13.S.1.24 cells. The present data altogether indicated that dopamine commits immortalized olfactory neuronal cells in vitro either to apoptosis or to olfactory-like differentiation via D2 dopaminergic receptors.
Axotomy within 500 microm of the soma (close axotomy) causes identified neurons (anterior bulbar cells or ABCs) in the lamprey hindbrain to lose their normal polarity and regenerate axons ectopically from dendritic tips, while axotomy at more distal sites (distant axotomy) results in orthotopic axonal regeneration from the axon stump. We performed immunocytochemical, electron microscopic and in situ hybridization analyses comparing ABCs subjected to close and distant axotomy to elucidate the mechanism by which neuronal polarity is lost. We show that polarity loss in ABCs is selectively and invariably preceded and accompanied by the following cellular changes: (1) a loss of many dendritic microtubules and their replacement with neurofilaments, (2) a loss of immunostaining for acetylated tubulin in the soma and proximal dendrites, and (3) an increase of immunostaining for phosphorylated neurofilaments in the distal dendrites. We also show that these changes do not depend on either the upregulation or spatial redistribution of neurofilament message, and thus must involve changes in the routing of neurofilament protein within axotomized ABCs. We conclude that close axotomy causes dendrites to undergo axonlike changes in the mechanisms that govern the somatofugal transport of neurofilament protein, and suggest that these changes require the reorganization of dendritic microtubules. We also suggest that the bulbous morphology and lack of f-actin in the tips of all regenerating sprouts supports the possibility that axonal regeneration in the lamprey CNS does not involve actin-mediated &quot;pulling&quot; of growth cones, but depends instead on the generation of internal extrusive forces.

The effect of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) treatment was studied in five patients with lower motor neuron disease associated with highly raised anti-GM1 antibodies but without evidence of conduction block on neurophysiological examination. The patients received IVIg treatment (0.4 g/kg for five consecutive days) in an open study. Only one patient responded to IVIg treatment, which was confirmed in a double blind, placebo controlled study (two placebo treatments and two IVIg treatments in a randomised order). However, after six months of maintenance IVIg treatment (0.4 g/kg weekly) muscle weakness gradually deteriorated below pretreatment levels despite continued treatment. It is concluded that the presence of raised anti-GM1 antibodies does not identify a subgroup of patients with lower motor neuron disease who respond to IVIg treatment and although some patients with lower motor neuron disease may initially respond, IVIg treatment does not seem to be sufficient as long term treatment.
The appearance of medulloblastoma in adult age and the uncertain overlapping of prognostic factors in pediatric and adult populations stimulate the question of whether medulloblastoma is different in adults and in children. The pathologic features, proliferation potential and glial/neuronal differentiation have been investigated in 42 adult medulloblastomas and 42 medulloblastomas of children; the quantitative data have been compared between the two groups of age. Homer-Wright rosettes, nuclear polymorphism and histologic signs of neuronal differentiation were more frequent in children cases; GFAP-positive tumor cells and desmoplastic type were more frequent in adult cases. The mean, median and rage of Lis, with PCNA and MIB-1 were significantly (p &lt; 0.05) higher in adults than in children. All cases, independently from age of the patients were immunoreactive with markers of neuronal commitment (class III beta tubulin isotype, MAP-2, neurofilaments). The immunoreactivity pattern suggested a more mature neuronal character in desmoplastic cases of adults than of children and in classic cases of children than of adults. In conclusion, some phenotypic differences between childhood and adult medulloblastoma exist, but do not support a substantially different course of the disease. The higher proliferation potential in adult than in childhood cases is unexpected in a tumor of embryonal origin, and reduces the applicability of Collin's law to medulloblastoma.
Increase of extracellular dopamine in primate prefrontal cortex during a working memory task. J. Neurophysiol. 78: 2795-2798, 1997. The dopamine innervation of the prefrontal cortex is involved importantly in cognitive processes, such as tested in working memory tasks. However, there have been no studies directly investigating prefrontal dopamine levels in relation to cognitive processes. We measured frontal extracellular dopamine concentration using in vivo microdialysis in monkeys performing in a delayed alternation task as a typical working memory paradigm and in a sensory-guided control task. We observed a significant increase in dopamine level in the delayed alternation task as compared both with the sensory-guided control task and the basal resting level. The increase was seen in the dorsolateral prefrontal but not in the arcuate or orbitofrontal areas. The increase appeared to reflect the working memory component of the task and was observed mainly in the lip areas of principal sulcus. Although there was no significant difference in dopamine level between delayed alternation and sensory-guided control tasks in the premotor area, significant increases in dopamine concentration were observed during both tasks as compared with the basal resting level, indicating the importance of premotor dopamine for the motor response itself.
Independent coding of wind direction in cockroach giant interneurons. J. Neurophysiol. 78: 2655-2661, 1997. In this study we examined the possible role of cell-to-cell interactions in the localization processing of a wind stimulus by the cockroach cercal system. Such sensory processing is performed primarily by pairs of giant interneurons (GIs), a group of highly directional cells. We have studied possible interactions among these GIs by comparing the wind sensitivity of a given GI before and after removing another GI with the use of photoablation. Testing various combinations of GI pairs did not reveal any suprathreshold interactions. This was true for all unilateral GI pairs on the left or right side as well as all the bilateral GI pairs (left and right homologues). Those experiments in which we were able to measure synaptic activity did not reveal subthreshold interactions between the GIs either. We conclude that the GIs code independently for a given wind direction without local GI-GI interactions. We discuss the possible implications of the absence of local interactions on information transfer in the first station of the escape circuit.
Regulation of the NMDA component of EPSPs by different components of postsynaptic GABAergic inhibition: computer simulation analysis in piriform cortex. J. Neurophysiol. 78: 2546-2559, 1997. Physiological analysis in the companion paper demonstrated that gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABAA)-mediated inhibition in piriform cortex is generated by circuits that are largely independent in apical dendritic and somatic regions of pyramidal cells and that GABAA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in distal dendrites have a slower time course than those in the somatic region. This study used modeling methods to explore these characteristics of GABAA-mediated inhibition with respect to regulation of the N-methyl--aspartate (NMDA) component of excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Such regulation is relevant to understanding NMDA-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) and the integration of repetitive synaptic inputs that can activate the NMDA component as well as pathological processes that can be activated by overexpression of the NMDA component. A working hypothesis was that the independence and differing properties of IPSCs in apical dendritic and somatic regions provide a means whereby the NMDA component and other dendritic processes can be controlled by way of GABAergic tone without substantially altering system excitability. The analysis was performed on a branched compartmental model of a pyramidal cell in piriform cortex constructed with physiological and anatomic data derived by whole cell patch recording. Simulations with the model revealed that NMDA expression is more effectively blocked by the slow GABAA component than the fast. Because the slow component is present in greater proportion in apical dendritic than somatic regions, this characteristic would increase the capacity of dendritic IPSCs to regulate NMDA-mediated processes. The simulations further revealed that somatic-region GABAergic inhibition can regulate the generation of action potentials with little effect on the NMDA component generated by afferent fibers in apical dendrites. As a result, if expression of the NMDA component or other dendritic processes were enabled by selective block of dendritic inhibition, for example, by centrifugal fiber systems that may regulate learning and memory, the somatic-region IPSC could preserve system stability through feedback regulation of firing without counteracting the effect of the dendritic-region block. Simulations with paired inputs revealed that the dendritic GABAA-mediated IPSC can regulate the extent to which a strong excitatory input facilitates the NMDA component of a concurrent weak input, providing a possible mechanism for control of &quot;associative LTP&quot; that has been demonstrated in this system. Postsynaptic GABAB-mediated inhibition had less effect on the NMDA component than either the fast or slow GABAA components. Depolarization from a concomitant alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) component also was found to have comparatively little effect on current through the NMDA channel because of its brief time course.
GABAA-mediated IPSCs in piriform cortex have fast and slow components with different properties and locations on pyramidal cells. J. Neurophysiol. 78: 2531-2545, 1997. A recent study in piriform (olfactory) cortex provided evidence that, as in hippocampus and neocortex, gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABAA)-mediated inhibition is generated in dendrites of pyramidal cells, not just in the somatic region as previously believed. This study examines selected properties of GABAA inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in dendritic and somatic regions that could provide insight into their functional roles. Pharmacologically isolated GABAA-mediated IPSCs were studied by whole cell patch recording in slices. To compare properties of IPSCs in distal dendritic and somatic regions, local stimulation was carried out with tungsten microelectrodes, and spatially restricted blockade of GABAA-mediated inhibition was achieved by pressure-ejection of bicuculline from micropipettes. The results revealed that largely independent circuits generate GABAA inhibition in distal apical dendritic and somatic regions. With such independence, a selective decrease in dendritic-region inhibition could enhance integrative or plastic processes in dendrites while allowing feedback inhibition in the somatic region to restrain system excitability. This could allow modulatory fiber systems from the basal forebrain or brain stem, for example, to change the functional state of the cortex by altering the excitability of interneurons that mediate dendritic inhibition without increasing the propensity for regenerative bursting in this highly epileptogenic system. As in hippocampus, GABAA-mediated IPSCs were found to have fast and slow components with time constants of decay on the order of 10 and 40 ms, respectively, at 29 degrees C. Modeling analysis supported physiological evidence that the slow time constant represents a true IPSC component rather than an artifactual slowing of the fast component from voltage clamp of a dendritic current. The results indicated that, whereas both dendritic and somatic-region IPSCs have both fast and slow GABAA components, there is a greater proportion of the slow component in dendrites. In a companion paper, the hypothesis is explored that the resulting slower time course of the dendritic IPSC increases its capacity to regulate the N-methyl--aspartate component of EPSPs. Finally, evidence is presented that the slow GABAA-mediated IPSC component is regulated by presynaptic GABAB inhibition whereas the fast is not. Based on the requirement for presynaptic GABAB-mediated block of inhibition for expression of long-term potentiation, this finding is consistent with participation of the slow GABAA component in regulation of synaptic plasticity. The lack of susceptibility of the fast GABAA component to the long-lasting, activity-induced suppression mediated by presynaptic GABAB receptors is consistent with a protective role for this process in preventing seizure activity.
Interaction between tetanus long-term potentiation and hypoxia-induced potentiation in the rat hippocampus. J. Neurophysiol. 78: 2475-2482, 1997. The interaction between tetanus-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) and hypoxia-induced potentiation was investigated by performing extracellular recordings in the CA1 region of rat hippocampus using a two-pathway design. Hippocampal slices were placed in an interface chamber containing artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) solution with high magnesium concentration. Hypoxia was induced by replacing the 5% CO2-95% O2 gas mixture with 5% CO2-95% N2 for 2 min. Tetanus-LTP was induced with 1-s, 100-Hz current pulses. Significant hypoxia-induced potentiation of the slope of the dendritic excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) was found in ACSF containing 2 mM of magnesium 2, 27 +/- 10% (mean +/- SE; n = 16; P &lt; 0.01) with no change in the mean amplitude of the presynaptic volley. All experiments in which a stable control baseline was obtained were used for data analysis. The data show that short episodes (2 min) of hypoxia can induce LTP of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid-mediated synaptic transmission. The present study demonstrated that after tetanus-LTP, 33 +/- 3% (n = 10; P &lt; 0.01), hypoxia further potentiated the field EPSP slopes by a mean value of 16 +/- 5% (n = 10; P &lt; 0.05). Moreover, using a two-pathway design, we showed that hypoxia produced similar potentiation in both the control [19 +/- 5%; n = 10; P &lt; 0.01) and tetanus-induced LTP pathway, and the total potentiation produced by a combination of tetanus then hypoxia, 63 +/- 13% (n = 10; p &lt; 0.01), was significantly larger (P &lt; 0.01) than hypoxia alone. These data suggest that hypoxia-induced potentiation is additive with tetanus-LTP. Occlusion experiments were performed to verify whether the mechanisms responsible for hypoxia-induced potentiation are independent of preexisting synaptic levels induced by high-frequency stimulation. Hypoxia produced significant potentiation (23 +/- 7%; n = 7; P &lt; 0.05) after successful occlusion of the LTP pathway. Therefore, because the magnitude of hypoxia-induced potentiation is both independent of preexisting synaptic levels and also additive, synaptic specificity associated with LTP is preserved. The magnitude of tetanus-LTP induced 20 min after hypoxia (15 +/- 4%; n = 10) was significantly smaller (P &lt; 0.01) relative to LTP after normoxic conditions (33 +/- 3%; n = 10). Additionally, hypoxia blocked the transient, robust potentiation occurring during the early phase of LTP induction. This study suggests that although hypoxia modifies neuronal processing by general excitation, synaptic specificity associated with tetanus-LTP still is preserved. However, hypoxia can disrupt neuronal processing by inhibiting new modification of synaptic transmission.
Neurotrophin modulation of NMDA receptors in cultured murine and isolated rat neurons. J. Neurophysiol. 78: 2363-2371, 1997. Patch-clamp and calcium imaging techniques were used to assess the acute effects of the neurotrophins, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), and nerve growth factor (NGF), on the responses of cultured and acutely isolated hippocampal and cultured striatal neurons to the glutamate receptor agonist N-methyl--aspartic acid (NMDA). The effects of BDNF on NMDA-activated currents were examined in greater detail. Currents evoked by NMDA, and the accompanying changes in intracellular calcium, were enhanced by low concentrations of the neurotrophins (1-20 ng/ml). The potentiation by the neurotrophins was rapid in onset and offset (&lt;1 s). The neurotrophins also reduced desensitization of these currents in most cells. The enhancement of NMDA-activated currents by BDNF was observed using both perforated and whole cell patch recording techniques and could be demonstrated in outside-out patches. Furthermore, its effects were not attenuated by pretreatment with the protein kinase inhibitors genistein or 1-(5-isoquinolynesulfony)2-methylpiperazine (H7). Therefore, the actions of BDNF do not appear to be mediated by phosphorylation. Similar enhancements were observed with NT-3 and NT-4 and with NGF despite the fact that hippocampal neurons lack TrkA receptors. All together this evidence suggests that the enhancement of NMDA-evoked currents is unlikely to be mediated through the activation of growth factor receptors. Modulation of NMDA responses by BDNF was dependent on the concentration of extracellular glycine. The most pronounced potentiation by BDNF was observed at low concentrations, whereas no potentiation was observed in saturating concentrations of glycine, suggesting that BDNF may have increased the affinity of the NMDA receptor for glycine. However, the competitive glycine-site antagonist 7-chloro-kynurenic acid blocked the enhancement by BDNF without shifting the dose-inhibition relationship for this antagonist, and Mg2+ consistently depressed the potentiation of NMDA-evoked currents by BDNF, indicating that BDNF does not alter glycine affinity. BDNF also reversibly increased the probability of opening of NMDA channels recorded from outside-out patches taken from cultured hippocampal neurons. Other unrelated peptides including dynorphin and somatostatin also caused a glycine-dependent enhancement of NMDA currents and depressed the currents in saturating concentrations of glycine. In contrast, a shortened analogue dynorphin (6-17), which lacks N-terminus glycine residues, and another peptide met-enkephalin were without effects on NMDA currents recorded in low concentrations of glycine. Our results suggest that neurotrophins and other peptides can serve as glycine-like ligands for the NMDA receptor.
In vitro appetitive classical conditioning of the feeding response in the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. J. Neurophysiol. 78: 2351-2362, 1997. An in vitro preparation was developed that allowed electrophysiological analysis of appetitive conditioning of feeding in the model molluscan system, Lymnaea. The network generating the feeding motor program (fictive feeding) is well characterized at the cellular level and consists of identified central pattern generator (CPG) interneurons, motor neurons, and modulatory interneurons. Activation of a modulatory interneuron, the slow oscillator (SO), evokes the three-phase fictive feeding rhythm in the same semi-intact preparations where tactile stimuli can be applied to the lips. By pairing touch as a conditioned stimulus (CS) with stimulation of the SO as an unconditioned stimulus (US), we established an effective in vitro paradigm for appetitive conditioning. Before training, touch to the lips evoked only brief and weak activity in the feeding interneurons and motor neurons. After 6-10 conditioning trials, there was a significant enhancement in the fictive feeding response to CS alone. This was not seen in controls (CS only, US only, random CS and US) and in preparations where there was no initial brief response to touch before conditioning. Direct recordings from the protraction phase N1M interneurons during in vitro conditioning indicated that the enhancement of the fictive feeding is due to an increased activation of these CPG cells by mechanosensory inputs from the lips. We also found that the conditioned response was not due to a facilitated activation of modulatory neurons in the feeding network, such as the SO or the cerebral giant cells (CGCs), because the activity of these cells remained unchanged after conditioning.
Hyperpolarization-activated inward current in neurons of the rat's dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus in vitro. J. Neurophysiol. 78: 2235-2245, 1997. The hyperpolarization-activated current (Ih) underlying inward rectification in neurons of the rat's dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL) was investigated using whole cell patch-clamp techniques. Patch recordings were made from DNLL neurons of young rats (21-30 days old) in 400 micro;m tissue slices. Under current clamp, injection of negative current produced a graded hyperpolarization of the cell membrane, often with a gradual sag in the membrane potential toward the resting value. The rate and magnitude of the sag depended on the amount of hyperpolarizing current. Larger current resulted in a larger and faster decay of the voltage. Under voltage clamp, hyperpolarizing voltage steps elicited a slowly activating inward current that was presumably responsible for the sag observed in the voltage response to a steady hyperpolarizing current recorded under current clamp. Activation of the inward current (Ih) was voltage and time dependent. The current just was seen at a membrane potential of -70 mV and was activated fully at -140 mV. The voltage value of half-maximal activation of Ih was -78.0 +/- 6.0 (SE) mV. The rate of Ih activation was best approximated by a single exponential function with a time constant that was voltage dependent, ranging from 276 +/- 27 ms at -100 mV to 186 +/- 11 ms at -140 mV. Reversal potential (Eh) of Ih current was more positive than the resting potential. Raising the extracellular potassium concentration shifted Eh to a more depolarized value, whereas lowering the extracellular sodium concentration shifted Eh in a more negative direction. Ih was sensitive to extracellular cesium but relatively insensitive to extracellular barium. The current amplitude near maximal-activation (about -140 mV) was reduced to 40% of control by 1 mM cesium but was reduced to only 71% of control by 2 mM barium. When the membrane potential was near the resting potential (about -60 mV), cesium had no effect on the membrane potential, current-evoked firing rate and input resistance but reduced the spontaneous firing. When the membrane potential was more negative than -70 mV, cesium hyperpolarized the cell, decreased current-evoked firing and increased the input resistance. Ih in DNLL neurons does not contribute to the normal resting potential but may enhance the extent of excitation, thereby making the DNLL a consistently powerful inhibitory source to upper levels of the auditory system.
This study assessed the role of the thalamic medial geniculate (MG) nucleus in discriminative avoidance learning, wherein rabbits acquire a locomotory response to a tone [conditioned stimulus (CS)+] to avoid a foot shock, and they learn to ignore a different tone (CS-) not predictive of foot shock. Limbic (anterior and medial dorsal) thalamic, cingulate cortical, or amygdalar lesions severely impair acquisition, and neurons in these areas develop training-induced activity (TIA): more firing to the CS+ than to the CS-. MG neurons exhibit TIA during learning and project to the amygdala. The MG neurons may supply afferents essential for amygdalar and cingulothalamic TIA and for avoidance learning. To test this hypothesis, bilateral electrolytic or excitotoxic ibotenic acid MG nuclear lesions were induced, and multiunit recording electrodes were chronically implanted into the anterior and posterior cingulate cortex, the anterior-ventral and medial-dorsal thalamic nuclei, and the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala before training. Learning was severely impaired and TIA was abolished in all areas in rabbits with lesions. Thus learning and TIA require the integrity of the MG nucleus. Only damage in the medial MG division was significantly correlated with the learning deficit. The lesions abolished the sensory response of amygdalar neurons, and they attenuated (but did not eliminate) the sensory response of cingulothalamic neurons, suggesting the existence of extra geniculate sources of auditory transmission to the cingulothalamic areas.
In adult rats, kainic acid induces status epilepticus and delayed, selective cell loss of pyramidal neurons in the hippocampal CA3. In pup rats, kainate induces status epilepticus but not the accompanying neuronal cell death. The precise mechanisms underlying this age-dependent vulnerability to seizure-induced cell death are not understood. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are developmentally and spatially regulated throughout the hippocampus and are implicated in seizure-induced damage. In the present study we used in situ hybridization to examine possible changes in mGluR expression at the level of the hippocampus after status epilepticus in postnatal day 10 (P10) pup and adult (P40) rats. Status epilepticus did not alter expression of mGluR1, mGluR3, or mGluR5 mRNAs. In pup and adult rats, status epilepticus induced a reduction in expression of mGluR2 mRNA in granule cells of the dentate gyrus. This change could lead to augmented glutamate release at mossy fiber synapses on CA3 pyramidal cells and thereby promote hyperexcitation. In pup but not adult rats, mGluR4 mRNA expression was enhanced in CA3 pyramidal neurons. Upregulation of presynaptic mGluR4 in pup CA3 neurons could lead to reduced transmitter release from CA3 axons, including recurrent collaterals, thereby reducing vulnerability of neonatal CA3 neurons to seizure-induced damage. These findings indicate that status epilepticus affects mGluR expression in a gene- and cell-specific manner, and that these changes vary with the developmental stage.
The introduction of a temporal gap between the disappearance of an initially fixated target and the appearance of an eccentric saccadic target results in a general reduction of saccadic reaction times (SRTs)-the gap effect-and often in the production of express saccades, the latencies of which approach the conduction time of the shortest neural pathways from the retina to the eye muscles. We investigated saccade initiation by recording neuronal activity in the superior colliculus in monkeys performing the gap paradigm. Fixation-related neurons reduced their discharge rate during the gap period, regardless of the SRT. This reduction in activity is consistent with the hypothesized release of ocular fixation that facilitates premotor processes and may contribute to the gap effect. In addition to saccade-related discharges, many saccade-related neurons displayed phasic target-related responses and/or low-frequency preparatory activity during the gap period. The level of this preparatory activity correlated with both SRT and express saccade occurrence when the saccade was made into the response field of the neuron. Evidence indicates that advanced motor preparation is required for express saccade generation, which may be subserved by specific increases in the preparatory activity of saccade-related neurons. Increased preparatory activity may allow the target-related responses to trigger short-latency express saccades directly. This study provides insights into the functional mechanism of saccade initiation and may be relevant to the generation of all voluntary motor responses.
Cloning strategies were used to identify a gene termed glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor receptor-beta (GDNFR-beta) related to GDNFR-alpha. In situ hybridization was then used to map cellular expression of the GDNF-related trophic factor neurturin (NTN) and GDNFR-beta mRNA in developing and adult mice, and comparisons with GDNFR-alpha and RET were made. Neurturin is expressed in postnatal cerebral cortex, striatum, several brainstem areas, and the pineal gland. GDNFR-beta mRNA was more widely expressed in the developing and adult CNS, including cerebral cortex, cerebellum, thalamus, zona incerta, hypothalamus, brainstem, and spinal cord, and in subpopulations of sensory neurons and developing peripheral nerves. NTN colocalized with RET and GDNFR-alpha in ureteric buds of the developing kidney. The circular muscle layer of the developing intestines, smooth muscle of the urether, and developing bronchiolae also expressed NTN. GDNFR-beta was found in myenteric but not submucosal intestinal plexuses. In developing salivary glands NTN had an epithelial expression, whereas GDNFR-beta was expressed in surrounding tissue. Neurturin and GDNFR-beta were present in developing sensory organs. In the gonads, NTN appeared to be expressed in Sertoli cells and in the epithelium of the oviduct, whereas GDNFR-beta was expressed by the germ cell line. Our findings suggest multiple roles for NTN and GDNFR-beta in the developing and adult organism. Although NTN and GDNFR-beta expression patterns are sometimes complementary, this is not always the case, suggesting multiple modi operandi of GDNF and NTN in relation to RET and the two binding proteins, GDNFR-alpha and GDNFR-beta.
Dopamine release can regulate striatal acetylcholine efflux in vivo through at least two receptor mechanisms: (1) direct inhibition by dopamine D2 receptors on the cholinergic neurons, and (2) excitation initiated by dopamine D1 receptors. The neuroanatomical locus of the latter population of D1 receptors and the pathway(s) involved in the expression of their influence are controversial issues. We have tested the hypothesis that D1 receptors in substantia nigra pars reticulata are involved in the excitatory component of dopaminergic actions on striatal acetylcholine output. In vivo microdialysis was used in awake rats. Infusion of the selective D1 receptor agonist R(+)-1-Phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol (SKF 38393) hydrochloride into pars reticulata of substantia nigra elicited a significant increase in striatal acetylcholine efflux. Likewise, D-amphetamine applied into pars reticulata of substantia nigra by reverse dialysis produced an elevation in acetylcholine output measured at a second microdialysis probe in the striatum. Application of D-amphetamine in the striatum by reverse dialysis elicited a decrease in striatal acetylcholine efflux that could be reversed subsequently by local application of D-amphetamine in substantia nigra pars reticulata. A 2 mg/kg intraperitoneal dose of D-amphetamine, which has no net effect on striatal acetylcholine output under control conditions, elicited a significant decrease in acetylcholine efflux when the D1 receptor antagonist R(+)-7-Chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4, 5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine (SCH 23390) hydrochloride was applied simultaneously via a second microdialysis probe in substantia nigra pars reticulata. Thus, an excitatory D1-mediated influence on striatal acetylcholine output is initiated in substantia nigra pars reticulata, and this influence contributes to the effects of indirect dopaminergic agonists such as D-amphetamine on striatal acetylcholine efflux. These results indicate an important role of somatodendritic dopamine release, in addition to nerve terminal dopamine release, in the regulation of activity in basal ganglia circuits.
Experience-dependent changes in behavior are thought to involve structural modifications in the nervous system, especially alterations in patterns of synaptic connectivity. Repeated experience with drugs of abuse can result in very long-lasting changes in behavior, including a persistent hypersensitivity (sensitization) to their psychomotor activating and rewarding effects. It was hypothesized, therefore, that repeated treatment with the psychomotor stimulant drug amphetamine, which produces robust sensitization, would produce structural adaptations in brain regions that mediate its psychomotor activating and rewarding effects. Consistent with this hypothesis, it was found that amphetamine treatment altered the morphology of neurons in the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex. Exposure to amphetamine produced a long-lasting (&gt;1 month) increase in the length of dendrites, in the density of dendritic spines, and in the number of branched spines on the major output cells of the nucleus accumbens, the medium spiny neurons, as indicated by analysis of Golgi-stained material. Amphetamine treatment produced similar effects on the apical (but not basilar) dendrites of layer III pyramidal neurons in the prefrontal cortex. The ability of amphetamine to alter patterns of synaptic connectivity in these structures may contribute to some of the long-term behavioral consequences of repeated amphetamine use, including amphetamine psychosis and addiction.
Collapsin-1 is a member of the semaphorin family of signaling molecules that acts as a repellent for growing spinal sensory axons. We have constructed a chimeric collapsin-1/alkaline phosphatase probe to visualize putative collapsin-1 receptors in vitro and in situ. As predicted by the activity profile of collapsin-1, the probe binds spinal sensory tracts, ventral spinal roots, and the sympathetic chain but does not bind retinal axons. In addition, we find that the probe binds sensory axons arising from the olfactory epithelium and some, but not all, cranial sensory nerves. As predicted by these binding studies, in vitro assays demonstrate that primary olfactory sensory, trigeminal, and jugular ganglion growth cones collapse in the presence of soluble collapsin-1. Comparing the expression pattern of collapsin-1 with the trajectories of collapsin-1 responsive axons suggests that in both the spinal cord and the olfactory bulb, collapsin-1 prevents premature entry of sensory axons into their target and helps determine the final location of sensory terminations.
Despite increased interest in inner ear hair cell regeneration, it is still unclear what exact mechanisms underlie hair cell regeneration in mammals because of our limited understanding of hair cell development and the lack of specific hair cell markers. In this report, we studied hair cell development using immunohistochemistry on sections prepared from embryonic day (E) 13 to postnatal day 7 rat inner ear tissues. Of many epithelial, neuronal, and glial markers, we found that calcium-binding protein antibodies recognizing calretinin, calmodulin, or parvalbumin labeled immature hair cells in rat vestibular end organs. In particular, calretinin antiserum labeled the initial differentiating hair cells at E15, a stage immediately after the terminal mitosis of hair cell progenitors. The selective immunoreactivity of postmitotic presumptive hair cells, but not supporting cells or peripheral epithelial cells, was confirmed in utricular epithelial sheet cultures. Double labeling with calretinin and bromodeoxyuridine antibodies in long-term cultures showed that only a few mitotic utricular supporting cells became calretinin positive. Thus, although proliferation-mediated regeneration of new hair cells might directly contribute to hair cell regeneration in rat utricles after injury, it is very limited. In addition, double labeling with calretinin and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) revealed that differentiated hair cells underwent apoptosis during normal development at late embryonic and early postnatal stages in vivo and in vitro. Therefore, these experiments lay the groundwork for the time course of differentiation, regeneration, and apoptosis of mammalian vestibular hair cells. This work also suggests that calcium-binding proteins are useful markers for studies on inner ear hair cell differentiation and regeneration.
Although cyclic nucleotide-gated channels mediate sensory transduction in olfaction and vision, other forms of sensory transduction are independent of these channels. Caenorhabditis elegans cyclic nucleotide-gated channel mutants respond normally to some olfactory stimuli and to osmotic stimuli, suggesting that these chemosensory responses use an alternative sensory transduction pathway. One gene that may act in this pathway is osm-9, which is required for each of these responses as well as a mechanosensory response to nose touch. osm-9 encodes a protein with ankyrin repeats and multiple predicted transmembrane domains that has limited similarity to the Drosophila phototransduction channels transient receptor potential (TRP) and TRP-like (TRPL). The sequence of OSM-9 and other TRP-like genes reveals a previously unsuspected diversity of mammalian and invertebrate genes in this family. osm-9 is required for the activity of the predicted G-protein-coupled odorant receptor ODR-10, which acts in the AWA olfactory neurons; its similarity to other G-protein-regulated transduction channels suggests that OSM-9 is involved in AWA signaling. osm-9:: GFP fusion genes are expressed in a subset of chemosensory, mechanosensory, and osmosensory neurons. osm-9 also affects olfactory adaptation within neurons that require the cyclic nucleotide-gated channel for olfaction; in these neurons, the gene has a regulatory function and not a primary role in sensory transduction.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) agonists inhibit glutamate release by a presynaptic action at the CA3-CA1 synapse of rat hippocampus. We have examined the relationship between [Capre]t via presynaptic, voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs), measured optically by using the fluorescent calcium indicator fura-2, and transmitter release, measured electrophysiologically. Activation of presynaptic NPY Y2 receptors reduced [Capre]t and thereby inhibited synaptic transmission. Multiple calcium channels are involved in synaptic transmission at this synapse. Activation of Y2 receptors inhibits N-type, P/Q-type, and unidentified presynaptic VDCCs. The inhibition of each of these calcium channel types contributes to the reduction of [Capre]t by Y2 receptors. Activation of adenosine receptors fully occluded the inhibition of presynaptic calcium influx by Y2 receptors but not the inhibition by GABAB receptors, suggesting a convergent action for Y2 and adenosine receptors, probably by coupling to the same G-protein.
Dopamine has been shown to stimulate phosphorylation of DARPP-32, a phosphoprotein highly enriched in medium-sized spiny neurons of the neostriatum. Here, we investigated the contribution of D1-like and D2-like dopamine receptors in the regulation of DARPP-32 phosphorylation in mouse striatal slices. D1-like and D2-like receptors had opposing effects on the state of DARPP-32 phosphorylation. The D1 receptor agonist SKF82526 increased DARPP-32 phosphorylation. In contrast, the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole decreased basal as well as D1 agonist-, forskolin-, and 8-bromo-cAMP-stimulated phosphorylation of DARPP-32. The ability of quinpirole to decrease D1-stimulated DARPP-32 phosphorylation was calcium-dependent and was blocked by the calcineurin inhibitor cyclosporin A, suggesting that the D2 effect involved an increase in intracellular calcium and activation of calcineurin. In support of this interpretation, Ca2+-free/EGTA medium induced a greater than 60-fold increase in DARPP-32 phosphorylation and abolished the ability of quinpirole to dephosphorylate DARPP-32. The antipsychotic drug raclopride, a selective D2 receptor antagonist, increased phosphorylation of DARPP-32 under basal conditions and in D2 agonist-treated slices. The results of this study demonstrate that dopamine exerts a bidirectional control on the state of phosphorylation of DARPP-32.
Multiple sites of extraretinal photoreception are present in vertebrates, but the molecular basis of extraretinal phototransduction is poorly understood. This study reports the cloning of the first opsin specifically expressed in the directly photosensitive pineal and parapineal of cold-blooded vertebrates. This opsin, identified in channel catfish and termed parapinopsin, defines a new gene family of vertebrate photopigments and is expressed in a majority of parapinealocytes and a subset of pineal photoreceptor cells. Parapinopsin shows a caudal-rostral gradient of expression within the pineal organ. This study also reports the cloning of partial cDNAs encoding the channel catfish orthologues of rhodopsin and the red cone pigment-the full complement of retinal opsins in the species. In situ hybridization studies using probes derived from these retinal opsins, together with parapinopsin, reveal no expression of retinal opsins in pineal and parapineal organ and no expression of any opsin tested in the &quot;deep brain,&quot; iris, or dermal melanophores. These data imply that phototransduction in these sites of extraretinal photoreception must be mediated by novel opsins.
Whereas the pineal organs of lower vertebrates have been shown to be photosensitive, photic regulation of pineal function in adult mammals is thought be mediated entirely by retinal photoreceptors. Extraretinal regulation of pineal function has been reported in neonatal rodents, although both the site and molecular basis of extraretinal photoreception have remained obscure. In this study we examine the developmental expression pattern of all of the principal components of retinal phototransduction in rat pineal via cRNA in situ hybridization. All of the components needed to reconstitute a functional phototransduction pathway are expressed in the majority of neonatal pinealocytes, although the expression levels of many of these genes decline dramatically during development. These findings strongly support the theory that the neonatal rat pineal itself is photosensitive. In addition, we observe in neonatal pinealocytes the expression of both rod-specific and cone-specific phototransduction components, implying the existence of functionally different subtypes of pinealocytes that express varying combinations of phototransduction enzymes.
Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) is a member of the family of neurotrophic factors, which also includes nerve growth factor (NGF) and which have specific activities on different subsets of vertebrate neurons. The aim of this study was to determine which residues in NT-3 direct its specificity to the cognate TrkC receptor. It was possible to replace 80% of the residues in NT-3 with NGF residues without loss of specific activity. Residues D72, Y85, R87, W101, S107, and A111, together with either the residues F12, V18, V20, M37, V42, F54, and K57 or the variable regions IV and V, accounted for the specificity of NT-3. It is concluded that NGF and NT-3 use overlapping as well as separated regions for determination of specificities for their cognate receptors TrkA and TrkC, respectively.
Purified myelin from mouse brain was found to contain two forms of neutral sphingomyelinase, one Mg2+ dependent and the other Mg2+ independent. The former had a pH optimum of 7.5 and Km of 0.35 mM, whereas the corresponding values for the latter were pH 8.0 and Km 3.03 mM. Specific activity of the Mg(2+)-dependent enzyme showed a rostral-caudal gradient, ranging from 75 nmol/mg protein/hr in myelin from cerebral hemispheres to 21 nmol/mg protein/hr in myelin from spinal cord. Relative specific activity was approximately 20% that of brain stem or cerebral hemisphere homogenate. Treatment of myelin with taurocholate or high salt concentration did not significantly reduce activity of the Mg(2+)-dependent enzyme. The activity of that enzyme did not change with time or in the presence or absence of protease inhibitors; by contrast, that of Mg(2+)-independent enzyme decreased sharply in the absence of protease inhibitors but rose in their presence. To test for the effect of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) on myelin sphingomyelinase, mouse brain myelin was labeled in vivo by intracerebral injection of [3H]acetate into 18-20-day-old mice. After 40 hr, brain stems were removed, minced, and treated with TNF alpha in Krebs-Ringer solution, after which myelin was immediately isolated. Separation and counting of individual lipids revealed TNF alpha treatment to cause increased labeling of myelin ceramide and cholesterol ester with concomitant decrease in myelin sphingomyelin. Western blotting of myelin proteins using antibodies to the two TNF alpha receptors as probes revealed the presence of the p75 receptor. Implications of these findings in relation to possible mechanisms of autoimmune demyelination are discussed.
The authors studied complications associated with intraventricular chemotherapy in patients with leptomeningeal metastases (LM). One hundred twenty consecutive patients with LM (71 females and 49 males) ranging in age from 10 to 72 years (median 42 years) were treated with involved-field radiotherapy and intraventricular chemotherapy using an Ommaya reservoir and intraventricular catheter system. The diagnosis of LM was determined by a combination of clinical presentation (114 patients); cerebrospinal fluid cytological studies (100); or neuroradiographic studies (42). Systemic tumor histological findings included breast (34 patients); non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (22); melanoma (16); primitive neuroectodermal tumors including medulloblastoma (10); glial neoplasms, leukemia, small cell lung, nonsmall cell lung, and colon (six each); prostate and kidney (three each); and gastric cancers (two). Sixteen patients, all with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, also had acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Patients received one to four (median two) chemotherapeutic drugs and underwent a total of 1110 cycles of intraventricular chemotherapy (median 10). Intraventricular chemotherapy administration and diagnostic Ommaya reservoir punctures totaled 4400, with a median of 46 per patient. Complications included aseptic/chemical meningitis (52 patients); myelosuppression due to intraventricular chemotherapy (21); catheter-related infections (nine); unidirectional catheter obstruction (six); intraventricular catheter malpositioning (two); Ommaya reservoir exposure (two); leukoencephalopathy (two); and chemotherapy-related myelopathy (one). There were no treatment-related deaths; however, seven patients (6%) required additional surgery for either catheter repositioning (two) or reservoir removal (five). Seven patients with catheter-related infections were treated successfully with intraventricular and systemic antibiotic drugs, thereby preserving the Ommaya system. The authors conclude that Ommaya reservoirs are convenient and pharmacologically rational systems for administering intraventricular chemotherapy. Overall, serious complications requiring surgery are infrequent (6%) and most often secondary to catheter infections, Ommaya reservoir exposure, or initial catheter malpositioning. In the majority of instances, catheter infections may be managed medically, as may the most common complications of intraventricular chemotherapy including aseptic meningitis (43% of patients) and myelosuppression (18%).
Bone density analysis, dietary intake, and anthropometrics were compared in 20 subjects with Rett syndrome (RS), 25 normal control subjects, and 11 girls with cerebral palsy. Bone mineral density, bone mineral content, and spine (bone) mineral density were significantly reduced in the RS group. When weight and age were kept constant, the bone density was still reduced in the patients with RS. Subjects with RS are at risk for osteoporosis.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is a form of plasticity of the startle response in which presentation of a weak stimulus immediately before an intense startling stimulus reduces the resultant startle response. Deficits in PPI, an operational measure of sensorimotor gating, are observed in schizophrenia patients and can be modeled in rats by the psychotogen phencyclidine (PCP). PCP-induced deficits in PPI in rats are resistant to dopamine and serotonin antagonists but can be antagonized by antipsychotics such as clozapine, olanzapine and Seroquel. These latter antipsychotics have antagonistic actions at several receptors, including alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenergic, M1 muscarinic and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-A receptors. Although the direct actions of PCP are thought to be mediated by noncompetitive antagonism of N-methyl-D-aspartate sites, PCP thereby indirectly activates multiple neurotransmitter systems, including those affected by the aforementioned antipsychotics. The present studies examined the possibility that an antagonist action at a particular receptor subtype might be responsible for the interaction between PCP and the clozapine-like antipsychotics by testing whether a selective antagonist at alpha-1, alpha-2, M1 or GABA-A receptors would prevent the PCP-induced deficit in PPI in rats. Animals were pretreated with either the alpha-1 antagonist prazosin (0, 0.5, 1.0 or 2.5 mg/kg), the alpha-2 antagonist RX821002 (0, 0.2 or 0.4 mg/kg), the M1 muscarinic antagonist pirenzepine (0, 10 or 30 mg/kg) or the GABA-A antagonist pitrazepin (0, 1.0 or 3.0 mg/kg) and then treated with either saline or PCP (1.5 mg/kg). Because prazosin was effective in blocking the effects of PCP, an additional experiment tested the possibility that prazosin (0, 1.0 or 2.5 mg/kg) would block the PPI deficits produced by the dopamine agonist apomorphine (0 or 0.5 mg/kg). After drug administration, animals were tested in startle chambers. PCP was found repeatedly to decrease PPI. Prazosin (1.0 and 2.5 mg/kg) blocked this deficit in two separate experiments but did not increase base-line PPI levels. The effects on PPI were dissociable from changes in startle reactivity. Furthermore, prazosin did not antagonize apomorphine-induced disruptions of PPI, which suggests that the antagonism of the PCP effect was not simply due to a generalized improvement of deficient PPI. The antagonists for alpha-2, for M1 and for GABA-A receptors had no effect on base-line PPI or on PCP-induced disruptions in PPI. These findings indicate that the PPI-disruptive effect of PCP may be mediated in part by alpha-1 adrenergic receptors and that antagonism of alpha-1 receptors may play a major role in mediating the blockade of PCP-induced deficits in PPI by certain antipsychotics.
L-745,870,(3-([4-(4-chlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl]methyl)-1H- pyrollo[2,3-b] pyridine, was identified as a selective dopamine D4 receptor antagonist with excellent oral bioavailability and brain penetration. L-745,870 displaced specific binding of 0.2 nM [3H] spiperone to cloned human dopamine D4 receptors with a binding affinity (Ki) of 0. 43 nM which was 5- and 20-fold higher than that of the standard antipsychotics haloperidol and clozapine, respectively. L-745,870 exhibited high selectivity for the dopamine D4 receptor (&gt;2000 fold) compared to other dopamine receptor subtypes and had moderate affinity for 5HT2, sigma and alpha adrenergic receptors(IC50 &lt; 300 nM). In vitro, L-745,870 (0.1-1 microM) exhibited D4 receptor antagonist activity, reversing dopamine (1 microM) mediated 1) inhibition of adenylate cyclase in hD4HEK and hD4CHO cells; 2) stimulation of [35S] GTPgammaS binding and 3) stimulation of extracellular acidification rate, but did not exhibit any significant intrinsic activity in these assays. Although standard antipsychotics increase dopamine metabolism or plasma prolactin levels in rodents, L-745,870 (&lt;/=30 mg/kg p.o.) had no effect in these assays. The lack of a suitable in vivo assay for D4 receptor activation prompted the use of in vivo surrogate marker assays which confirmed that doses of 5-60 microg/kg L-745,870 would be sufficient to occupy 50% D4 receptors in the brain. These results show that dopamine D4 receptor antagonism in the brain does not result in the same neurochemical consequences (increased dopamine metabolism or hyperprolactinemia) observed with typical neuroleptics.
Phosphodiesterase (PDE) activity was determined in pulmonary arteries removed from control and chronic hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertensive rats. The main, first-branch, intrapulmonary and resistance pulmonary arteries were studied. We measured total cAMP PDE activity and cGMP PDE activity, as well as that of individual isoforms (PDE1-5). cAMP PDE activity in chronic hypoxic rats was increased in first-branch and intrapulmonary arteries from hypoxic rats. No changes were observed in the main or resistance pulmonary arteries. Similarly, cGMP PDE activity was increased in the main, first-branch and intra-pulmonary arteries of the hypoxic rats. No changes in cGMP PDE activity were observed in resistance arteries. There was evidence for PDE1-5 activity in all pulmonary arteries. The increased cAMP PDE activity in first-branch and intrapulmonary vessels was associated with an increase in cilostimide-inhibited PDE (PDE3) activity. Increased total cGMP PDE in main pulmonary artery was associated with increases in Ca++/calmodulin-stimulated (PDE1) activity. An increase in zaprinast-inhibited (PDE5) activity was observed in first-branch and intrapulmonary arteries. Our results suggest that decreases in intracellular cyclic nucleotide levels in pulmonary arteries from pulmonary hypertensive rats are associated with increased PDE activity. Further, these changes may reflect alterations at the level of specific types of PDE isoforms.
The radiochemical synthesis and pharmacological properties are described of [3H]RY 80 (ethyl-8-acetylene-5, 6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-4H-imidazo[1,5a][1, 4]benzodiazepine-3-carboxylate, [ethyl-3H]). This compound is one of a series of 8-substituted imidazobenzodiazepines that exhibits both high affinity and selectivity for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptors containing alpha-5 subunits. Saturable, high-affinity (Kd approximately 0.7 nM) binding of [3H]RY 80 was observed in hippocampal membranes. The maximum number (Bmax) of [3H]RY 80 binding sites was approximately 18% of that obtained with [3H]flunitrazepam, a radioligand that labels all &quot;diazepam-sensitive&quot; GABAA receptors. This value is consistent with previous estimates (10-20%) of the proportion of rat hippocampal GABAA receptors containing alpha-5 subunits determined by immunoprecipitation with selective antibodies and competition experiments using an alpha-5-selective ligand. In recombinant GABAA receptors composed of alpha-5 beta-3 gamma-2 subunits, the Kd of [3H]RY 80 (approximately 0.5 nM) was consistent with the value obtained in hippocampus, whereas the Bmax value was not significantly different from that obtained with [3H]flunitrazepam. The potencies of several benzodiazepine site ligands to inhibit [3H]RY 80 binding to hippocampal membranes were in agreement with the values obtained in recombinant (alpha-5 beta-3 gamma-2) GABAA receptors. [3H]RY 80 was used both in a &quot;GABA shift&quot; assay to correctly predict the in vivo actions of a novel, alpha-5-selective ligand and to characterize a population of GABAA receptors containing alpha-5 subunits in neonatal rat cortex. These findings demonstrate that [3H]RY 80 can be used as a radioligand to examine the properties of GABAA receptors containing alpha-5 subunits.
1. Phasic activity in the human back muscle erector spinae (ES) was studied during repetitive hand movements. The hand movements were elicited voluntarily by the subject or induced passively by the experimenter through a servomotor or through cyclical electrical stimulation of muscles acting about the wrist. The aim of the study was to determine whether the rhythmical activation of ES was of supraspinal, intersegmental or segmental origin. 2. When voluntary rhythmical hand movements were performed as fast as possible, cyclical ES EMG bursts occurred at the same frequency. This frequency was significantly higher than that reached when the task was to contract the back muscles as rapidly as possible. This suggests that the ES activity during the fast hand movements was not generated by direct commands descending to the ES muscles from the motor area of the cerebral cortex responsible for voluntary back muscle activation. 3. During imposed rhythmical hand movements, ES EMG bursts remained entrained to the hand movements, even when movement frequencies far exceeded those attainable voluntarily either for the hand or the back. This showed that ES EMG responses could be evoked by the hand movements even when these were not generated by descending neural commands. Two alternative mechanisms of ES activation were considered: (a) propriospinal transmission of afferent input entering the spinal cord from the upper extremity; (b) afferent input from ES and other trunk muscles, responding to local oscillations transmitted mechanically from the hand to the lower back. 4. Activation of ES via proprioceptive signals from the forearm was unlikely since (a) simultaneous electrical stimulation of wrist extensor and wrist flexor muscles did not result in repetitive ES EMG bursting; (b) cyclical vibration of the wrist extensors did not evoke ES EMG bursting; (c) when the forearm was constrained and the hand was moved passively, the lower trunk accelerations and cyclical ES EMG both occurred at a harmonic of the hand movement frequency. 5. We conclude that the repetitive ES EMG bursting during hand movements was probably due to a local segmental reflex rather than to descending commands. Remote mechanical oscillations of the trunk caused by hand movements evidently elicited proprioceptive reflexes in ES that presumably contributed to trunk stabilization.
1. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made from rat ventromedial hypothalamic neurones in slices of brain tissue in vitro. Bath application of 50 microM (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD) depolarized all neurones tested by activation of an inward current of approximately 55 pA at -60 mV. 2. The inward current elicited by 1S,3R-ACPD was unaffected by K+ channel blockade with external Cs+, Ba2+ or TEA. However, the current was significantly reduced by replacement of the external NaCl with either Tris-HCl or LiCl. 3. The 1S,3R-ACPD-induced current was reduced by the heavy metal ions Ni2+ or La3+ and also by the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange current inhibitor 3',4'-dichlorobenzamil. 4. The effects of 1S,3R-ACPD were mimicked by the group I metabotropic agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) but not by the group III selective agonist, L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoate (L-AP4). Furthermore, the effects of 1S,3R-ACPD were inhibited by the metabotropic antagonists alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG) and 1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA) but not by the presynaptic metabotropic receptor antagonists alpha-methyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine (MPPG) or alpha-methyl-4-tetrazolylphenylglycine (MTPG). 5. Photorelease of caged GDP beta S inside neurones irreversibly blocked the 1S,3R-ACPD-induced current whilst photolysis of caged GTP gamma S inside neurones irreversibly potentiated this current. 6. The PLC inhibitor U-73,122 significantly reduced the size of the inward current induced by 1S,3R-ACPD. This effect was not mimicked by the inactive analogue U-73,343. 7. Flash photolysis of the caged calcium chelator diazo-2 inside neurones diminished the response to 1S,3R-ACPD. 8. It is concluded that group I metabotropic glutamate receptors depolarize neurones in the VMH by activation of a Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange current through a G-protein coupled increase in intracellular Ca2+.
In the last 10 years most people in the western world have become fully aware of the medical and social dimensions of Alzheimer's disease. One might conclude, therefore, that the life of Aloys Alzheimer (1864-1915) would be an object of intensive study. However, compared to other scientists from the turn of the century, our knowledge of Alzheimer is still limited. One of the most decisive factors in his life was Emil Kraepelin, the real &quot;inventor&quot; of the Alzheimer dementia. A critical-historical attitude should be especially maintained if one looks at Alzheimer's dementia, Alzheimer's famous &quot;discovery&quot;. Many of today's psychiatrists would assume that the description of Alzheimer's disease was the scientific climax of Alzheimer's professional life and the ultimate aim of his research. However, this view is the result of our modern knowledge. Kraepelin's creation of Alzheimer's disease in 1909 was not based on a large number of &quot;objective&quot; findings, but on his idea of &quot;nosological entities&quot;. Alzheimer's disease is a striking example of the fact that a new medical idea must comprise conceptual prerequisites, clinical observations and innovative technologies.

Four astronauts experienced passive whole-body rotation in a number of test sessions during a 7-day orbital mission. Pitch (Y-axis) and roll (X-axis) rotation required subject orientations on the rotator in which the otolith system was at radius of 0.5 m. Thus subjects experienced a constant -0.22 Gz stimulus to the otoliths during the 60 s constant-velocity segments of &quot;pitch&quot; and &quot;roll&quot; ramp profiles. The Gz stimulus, a radius-dependent vector ranging from -0.22 Gz at the otoliths to +0.36 Gz at the feet, generated sensory information that was not interpreted as inversion in any of the 16 tests carried out in flight (12 in pitch and 4 in roll orientation). None of the subjects was rotated with head off-center during the first 33 h of the mission. In the state of orbital adaptation of these subjects, a -0.22 Gz otolith stimulus did not provide a vertical reference in the presence of a gradient of +Gz stimuli to the trunk and legs.
We have reported that the receptor for mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) expressed in MHV-susceptible BALB/c mice (MHVR1) has 10 to 30 times the virus-binding activity of the MHV receptor expressed in MHV-resistant SJL mice (MHVR2) (N. Ohtsuka, Y. K. Yamada, and F. Taguchi, J. Gen. Virol. 77:1683-1992, 1996). This fact indicates the possibility that the difference in MHV susceptibility between BALB/c and SJL mice is determined by the virus-binding activity of the receptor. To test this possibility, we have examined MHV susceptibility in mice with the homozygous MHVR1 gene (R1/R1 genotype), mice with the MHVR1 and MHVR2 genes (R1/R2 genotype), and mice with the homozygous MHVR2 gene (R2/R2 genotype) produced by cross and backcross mating between BALB/c and SJL mice. All 63 F2 and backcrossed mice with the MHVR1 gene (R1/R1 and R1/R2) were susceptible to MHV infection, and all 57 with the homozygous MHVR2 gene (R2/R2) were resistant. We have also examined the MHV receptor genotypes of several mouse strains that were reported to be susceptible to MHV infection. All of those mice had the MHVR1 gene. These results suggest the possibility that the viral receptor determines the susceptibility of the whole animal to MHV infection.
The &quot;attentional model&quot; of time estimation assumes that temporal judgments depend on the amount of attention allocated to the temporal processor (the timer). One of the main predictions of this model is that an interval will be judged shorter when attention is not allocated to the temporal parameters of the task. Previous studies combining temporal and nontemporal tasks (dual-task method) have suggested that the time spent processing the target duration might be a key factor. The less time devoted by the subject to the temporal task, the shorter the judged duration. In the two experiments presented here, subjects were asked to judge both the duration of a visual stimulus and an increment in intensity occurring at any time during this stimulus. In the second experiment, trials without intensity increments were added. The main result is that the judged duration was shorter when the increment occurred later in the stimulus or did not occur. In those cases, subjects had been expecting increment occurrence during most part of the stimulus and thus had focused for a shorter time on stimulus duration. We propose that attention shifts related to expectancy and to detection of the increment reduce subjective duration.
Eyewitness memory is often distorted when misleading information is presented to subjects after encoding. Three experiments explored ways to overcome these misinformation effects. In Experiment 1, subjects viewed slides of a robbery, at a rate of four or seven seconds per slide. Five minutes later subjects were given a recognition test with few (1-3) or numerous (6-13) event cues. Providing numerous retrieval cues improved overall performance, but did not reduce the effects of misinformation. With week-long delays (Experiment 2) numerous retrieval cues did eliminate misinformation effects, but only when subjects viewed slides at the slower rate (seven seconds per slide). Experiment 3 essentially replicated this pattern, using a modified test to eliminate any biasing effects of distractors. Given adequate encoding and numerous retrieval cues, misinformation effects were eliminated, suggesting that under some conditions misinformation makes event memory inaccessible, but not unavailable.
Expression of many components of the secretory pathway in peptidergic neuroendocrine cells is precisely controlled in response to secretagogues. Regulated endocrine-specific protein (RESP18) was identified as a dopamine-regulated intermediate pituitary transcript. Although the amino acid sequence of RESP18 initially suggested that it might be a novel preprohormone, its widespread expression in peptide-producing neurons and endocrine cells and its localization to the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum suggested that it subserves a unique function. Subtractive hybridization of a pituitary corticotrope AtT-20 cell line engineered for inducible RESP18 expression demonstrated a RESP18-dependent induction of several transcripts. Regulation of RESP18 expression in vitro and in vivo was accompanied by changes in the same transcripts. Several cDNAs encoding transcripts up-regulated by RESP18 were analyzed by DNA sequencing, searching the GenBank databases for homologous proteins, and Northern blotting. One novel clone showed a tissue distribution nearly identical to that of RESP18. One clone was identical to rat LIMK2, a protein kinase containing modular protein-protein interaction LIM (lin-11, isl-1, mec-3) domains. Another clone was similar to monomeric bacterial isocitrate dehydrogenases. Like the unfolded protein response, these data demonstrate a novel signaling pathway from the secretory pathway lumen to the nucleus. RESP18 acts as a lumicrine peptide (an intracellular luminal autocrine hormone) inducing this pathway.
In the unicellular eukaryote Chlamydomonas, disruption of cell-matrix interactions by treatment with a periplasmic matrix metalloproteinase, g-lysin, activates a signal transduction pathway that results in the rapid synthesis and secretion of matrix molecules, followed by their assembly into a new matrix. I have identified and partially characterized several cDNA clones for transcripts that are dramatically up-regulated following treatment of cells with g-lysin. Here I report the complete nucleotide sequence and preliminary characterization of a matrix-related molecule termed Mrp47. The cDNA clone for Mrp47 contained an insert of 2.5 kb, corresponding to a transcript of 3.0 kb that is encoded by a single-copy gene. Sequence analysis indicated that Mrp47 cDNA contains an open reading frame (ORF) that encodes a 46-kDa polypeptide. The putative polypeptide is unusually rich in the amino acids proline, alanine and serine, with prolines clustered together in a 30-amino acid N-terminal region and a 80-amino acid C-terminal region. Further analysis of the predicted amino acid sequence suggested that Mrp47 is likely to be a secreted glycoprotein. Southern hybridization analysis indicated that Mrp47 is encoded by a single-copy gene in the Chlamydomonas genome. Database searches suggested that Mrp47 shows homology to other proline-rich proteins including a surface glycoprotein in Volvox and verprolin from yeast.
Pharmacological analyses of gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) receptor subtypes have suggested that both the alpha and gamma subunits, but not the beta subunit, contribute to the benzodiazepine binding site. We took advantage of the different pharmacological properties conferred by the inclusion of different gamma subunits in the receptor macromolecule to identify amino acids gamma2Phe77 and gamma2Met130 as key determinants of the benzodiazepine binding site. gamma2Phe77 was required for high affinity binding of the benzodiazepine site ligands flumazenil, CL218,872, and methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate but not flunitrazepam. This amino acid was, however, required for allosteric modulation by flunitrazepam, as well as other benzodiazepine site ligands. In contrast, gamma2Met130 was required for high affinity binding of flunitrazepam, clonazepam, and triazolam but not flumazenil, CL218, 872, or methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate and did not affect benzodiazepine efficacy. Introduction of the phenylalanine and methionine into the appropriate positions of gamma1 was not sufficient to confer high affinity for the benzodiazepine site ligand zolpidem. These data show that gamma2Phe77 and gamma2Met130 are necessary for high affinity binding of a number of benzodiazepine site ligands. Although most previous studies have focused on the contribution of the alpha subunit, we demonstrated a critical role for the gamma subunit at the benzodiazepine binding site, indicating that this modulatory site is located at the interface of these two subunits. Furthermore, gamma2Phe77 is homologous to alpha1Phe64, which has been previously shown to be a key determinant of the GABA binding site, suggesting a conservation of motifs between different ligand binding sites on the GABAA receptor.

Three cases of adverse reactions to repeated intramuscular botulinum toxin A (BTA) injections are described: a persistent rash on the face at the site of injection, a localized anaphylactic reaction following BTA injection into one leg, and bilateral ptosis repeatedly following BTA injection into neck muscles. The mechanisms for these idiosyncratic adverse responses are not known.
We present an in vitro model in which mouse skeletal muscle fibers undergo degeneration by increasing the current strength of tetanic stimulation. To understand the mechanisms of muscle fiber necrosis in Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients, the process of fiber degeneration was compared between mdx and control mice. The process consisted of four steps, beginning with muscle fiber contraction and extending to onset of myofibril disruption. The four processes were not observed in fibers in Krebs-HEPES (-Ca2+) buffer, nor in the presence of L-type Ca2+ channel blockers. These results suggest that this degenerative phenomenon is regulated by intracellular Ca2+, which moved into fibers mainly through voltage-dependent L-type Ca2+ channels. With the exception of myofibril disruption, mdx mice also exhibited the three other steps, but at a significantly lower current strength than in the fibers in the control mice. We postulate that excess Ca2+ flux occurs in fibers, mainly through abnormal L-type Ca2+ channels, and that the excessively accumulated calcium results in premature degeneration of the fibers by tetanic contraction. This study would provide a clue to investigate and prevent the degeneration processes in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a member of a larger gene family including amyloid precursor-like proteins (APLP), APLP2 and APLP1. To examine the function of APLP2 in vivo, we generated APLP2 knockout (KO) mice. They are of normal size, fertile, and appear healthy up to 22 months of age. We observed no impaired axonal outgrowth of olfactory sensory neurons following bulbectomy, suggesting against an important role for APLP2 alone in this process. Because APLP2 and APP are highly homologous and may serve similar functions in vivo, we generated mice with targeted APLP2 and APP alleles. Approximately 80% of double KO mice die within the first week after birth, suggesting that APLP2 and APP are required for early postnatal development. The surviving approximately 20% of double KO mice are 20-30% reduced in weight and show difficulty in righting, ataxia, spinning behavior, and a head tilt, suggesting a deficit in balance and/or strength. Adult double KO mice mate poorly, despite apparent normal ovarian and testicular development. Otherwise, double KO mice appear healthy up to 13 months of age. We conclude, that APLP2 and APP can substitute for each other functionally.
We investigated kainate-induced excitotoxicity in embryonic rat hippocampal cells cultured in a chemically defined medium. Treatment with kainate for 24 h resulted in neuronal death, as assessed by the release of lactate dehydrogenase into the culture media. This neurotoxic effect was kainate dose- and culture age-dependent. EC50 of kainate was 127 +/- 11 microM. 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo (f)quinoxaline (NBQX) completely blocked the toxicity, while MK801, an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, also blocked it but not completely. Furthermore, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) attenuated the kainate injury, while the selective and noncompetitive AMPA-preferring receptor antagonist 1-(4-aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7, 8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzo-diazepine (GYKI 52466) blocked it completely. Concanavalin A (ConA), which potentiates the response to kainate at kainate-preferring receptors, had little effect on kainate toxicity. Further, AMPA alone induced little toxicity, but produced remarkable toxicity when cyclothazide was used to block the desensitization of AMPA-preferring receptors. These results indicate that kainate excitotoxicity in hippocampal cultures is mediated by AMPA- but not kainate-preferring receptors, and that it involves NMDA-receptor-mediated toxicity. The non-desensitizing response at AMPA-preferring receptors may play an important role in kainate-induced excitotoxicity.
The response of the central nervous system to stress is often critical to the adaptation of an organism to its environment. However, in humans the response to stress also can be maladaptive, resulting in the expression or exacerbation of many neurological and psychiatric disorders. In this review, we examine the impact of stress on the synthesis and release of dopamine within mesocortical, mesoaccumbens, and nigrostriatal dopamine projections. We note that whereas stress increases the neurochemical activity of each of these populations of dopamine neurons, heterogeneities do exist. Specifically, acute stress evokes a greater increase in dopamine metabolism and release within the prefrontal cortex than the subcortical sites. Furthermore, whereas prior exposure to chronic stress enhances the response of mesocortical dopamine neurons to an acute novel stressor, this does not occur in the subcortical sites. In addition to these regional heterogeneities, we also note that even within a single dopamine projection there can be heterogeneous regulation of dopamine synthesis and release. Specifically, whereas stress-induced dopamine release in the neostriatum is mediated by an action of glutamate on the dopamine cell body, stress-induced dopamine synthesis in the neostriatum is mediated by an action of glutamate on the dopamine nerve terminal. Finally, we propose that regional heterogeneities in the responsiveness of central dopamine neurons to stress may ultimately play a role in the expression and exacerbation of symptoms associated with schizophrenia.
Lurcher mutant mice which are mainly known for their cerebellar degeneration, also display a hyperinducibility of proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1alpha and beta (IL-1) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), in peripheral macrophages. To assess whether this increased responsiveness to inflammatory stimuli is accompanied by a higher pituitary-adrenal response, we compared the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone response of Lc and wild-type mice to intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of a cytokine inducer, lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Lurcher mice display resting levels of ACTH and corticosterone similar to those of wild-type mice. LPS (1.25 microg/g) induces a corticosterone surge 2-fold higher in Lurcher than in wild-type mice. By contrast, the response to IL-1alpha (10 ng/g, i.p.) is similar in both genotypes, suggesting that a differential reactivity of the hypothalamo-pituitary adrenal axis to IL-1 does not account for the higher reactivity of Lurcher mice to LPS. To test whether the increased responsiveness of the pituitary-adrenal axis of Lurcher mice generalizes accross stressors, mice were exposed to a novel environment. This condition also induced a surge of ACTH and corticosterone 3.5- and 2-fold higher in Lurcher than in wild-type mice. Prior blockade of IL-1 receptors by injection of IL-1 receptor antagonist (10 microg/g, i.p.) failed to block the response to LPS injection and exposure to novelty. In contrast, immunoneutralization of hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) significantly attenuated the ACTH surge and abrogated the difference between Lurcher and wild-type mice in their responses to a novel environment, suggesting that hypothalamic CRH neurons are involved in this excessive response.

We found that magnocellular oxytocin neurons in adult female rats exhibit an endogenous GABA(A) receptor subunit switch around parturition: a decrease in alpha1:alpha2 subunit mRNA ratio correlated with a decrease in allopregnanolone potentiation and increase in decay time constant of the GABA(A) receptor-mediated IPSCs in these cells. The causal relationship between changes in alpha1:alpha2 mRNA ratio and the ion channel kinetics was confirmed using in vitro antisense deletion. Further, GABA(A) receptors exhibited a tonic inhibitory influence upon oxytocin release in vivo, and allopregnanolone helped to restrain oxytocin neuron in vitro firing only before parturition, when the alpha1:alpha2 subunit mRNA ratio was still high. Such observations provide evidence for the physiological significance of GABA(A) receptor subunit heterogeneity and plasticity in the adult brain.
In some cochleae, the number and kinetic properties of Ca2+-activated K+ (KCa) channels partly determine the characteristic frequency of each hair cell and thus help establish a tonotopic map. In the chicken's basilar papilla, we found numerous isoforms of KCa channels generated by alternative mRNA splicing at seven sites in a single gene, cSlo. In situ polymerase chain reactions demonstrated cSlo expression in hair cells and revealed differential distributions of KCa channel isoforms along the basilar papilla. Analysis of single hair cells by the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction confirmed the differential expression of channel variants. Heterologously expressed cSlo variants differed in their sensitivities to Ca2+ and voltage, suggesting that the distinct spatial distributions of cSlo variants help determine the tonotopic map.
By loading cells in culture with acetylcholine (ACh) we have characterized a calcium-dependent release mechanism and shown that it was expressed independently of synthesis or storage of ACh. (Isral et al., 1994, Neurochemistry International 37, 1475-1483; Falk-Vairant et al., 1996a, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 93, 5203-5207; Falk-Vairant et al., 1996b, Neuroscience 75, 353-360; Falk-Vairant et al., 1996c, Journal of Neuroscience Research 45, 195-201). The transmitter loading procedure was applied to two other transmitters, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate (Glu). We could then study the specificity of the release mechanism for the three transmitters in a variety of cell lines, including neural-derived cells. Four different calcium-dependent release phenotypes were identified: two were specific for ACh or GABA, and two co-released two transmitters ACh and GABA but not Glu, or ACh and Glu but not GABA. We conclude that release mechanisms having different specificities are expressed by the cell lines studied, they become functional after loading the cells with the relevant transmitters. These observations will help the identification of proteins controlling the specificity of release, and provide an interesting model for pharmacological studies.
The relationship between zolpidem sensitivity and GABA(A) receptor alpha subunits was studied in individual dissociated neurons from rat brain. Using whole-cell recording, similar EC50 values were demonstrated for the effect of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) on gated-chloride currents from substantia nigra reticulata (SNR) and lateral septal neurons. Subsequently, many neurons from both the SNR or lateral septum were found to exhibit enhanced GABA-gated chloride currents across concentrations of zolpidem ranging from 10 to 300 nM. Some neurons exhibited a greater than 20% increase in responsiveness to GABA at 30 nM of zolpidem without further increase at higher concentrations of zolpidem. Conversely, zolpidem enhancement of GABA from another group of neurons was not observed at 30 nM zolpidem, but between 100 and 300 nM the response to GABA increased greater than 20%. Finally, a third group of neurons reached both of these criteria for zolpidem enhancement of GABA. This latter spectrum of responses to GABA after varying concentrations of zolpidem was consistent with the presence of either two GABA(A) receptors or a single receptor with differing affinities for zolpidem on an individual neuron. Following determination of the sensitivity of neurons from SNR or lateral septum to zolpidem, cytoplasm was extracted from some individual cells to allow identification of cellular mRNAs for the alpha1, alpha2 and alpha3 GABA(A) receptor subunits with RT-PCR. Those neurons that responded to the 30 nM zolpidem concentration invariably expressed the alpha1-GABA(A) receptor subunit. This result is consistent with the GABA(A) alpha1-receptor subunit being an integral part of a functional high-affinity zolpidem type 1-BZD receptor complex on neurons in brain. Those neurons which showed enhancement of GABA from 100 to 300 nM zolpidem contained mRNAs for the alpha2 and/or the alpha3 receptor subunits, a finding consistent with these alpha subunits forming type 2-BZD receptors. Some individual dissociated SNR neurons were sensitive to both low and high concentrations of zolpidem and contained mRNAs for all three alpha-receptor subunits. These latter individual neurons are proposed to have at least two functional GABA(A) receptor subtypes. Thus, the present investigation emphasizes the importance of characterizing the relationship between endogenous GABA(A) receptor function and the presence of specific structural components forming GABA(A) receptor subtypes on neurons.
In fixed tissue, neuronal NADPH-diaphorase staining results from nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity. Neuronal NOS only synthesizes nitric oxide once activated by the binding of Ca2+/calmodulin. We show here that neuronal NADPH-diaphorase staining is also dependent on Ca2+/calmodulin, implying that only activated NOS is detected. In addition, in bovine pulmonary endothelial cells, carbachol and bradykinin dramatically and rapidly increase the intensity of NADPH-diaphorase staining. Furthermore, administration of MK801, an NMDA antagonist, decreases neuronal NADPH-diaphorase staining. This suggests that the intensity of the NADPH-diaphorase staining is related to the level of enzyme activation at the moment of tissue fixation. The potential of exploiting this observation to detect cellular activation of NOS is illustrated by the observations that the intensity of NADPH-diaphorase staining in rat striatal neurones is decreased following systemic treatment with the D1-like dopamine receptor antagonist SCH23390, and increased by the D2-like antagonist eticlopride. These results therefore provide strong evidence that the NADPH-diaphorase reaction can be used to monitor NOS activity at a cellular level of resolution, and reveal a dopaminergic regulation of NOS activity in the striatum mediated by D1-like and D2-like dopamine receptors.
We investigated the phenomenon of long-term potentiation (LTP) in a genetic model of Down Syndrome, the segmental trisomy mouse (Ts65Dn). Ts65Dn mice survive to adulthood and have an extra chromosome that contains a segment of chromosome 16 homologous to human chromosome 21. In this study, field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSP) were recorded from the CA1 area of in vitro hippocampal slices from diploid and Ts65Dn mice, and LTP was induced by a single tetanizing pulse train (1 sec in duration) at 100 Hz. The hippocampus from both young (2 months) and older (9 months) Ts65Dn mice had a reduced LTP over a period of 60 min compared with LTP in age-matched controls. This finding may explain the reported behavioral and learning impairments in Ts65Dn mice; it suggests that this mouse model can be used to study the role of altered synaptic plasticity in mental retardation of Down Syndrome.
Patients with right hemisphere injury frequently neglect to cancel targets primarily in the left part of the page nearest the body. Since this region is diagonally opposite the area from where such patients usually begin cancelling, near left ('diagonal') neglect may be consequent to stimulus order effects ('fatigue'). We evaluated the persistence of near left neglect in nine stroke patients when they had to cancel either the near or the far half of the page before proceeding to the other half. Our results showed that near left neglect on the page was largely unaffected by cancellation order. Furthermore, a near left gradient of omissions was established within both radial (near and far) halves of the page, as well as for the entire page. Our findings suggest that diagonal cancellation neglect is unrelated to fatigue and reflects a consistent, two-dimensional disorder of spatial attention. Such neglect may be related to the extent of the visible stimulus array, as well as to the array's location in egocentric space.
This review summarizes recent findings of our laboratory that have been directed at: (1) identifying the neural circuits underlying the expression and modulation of defensive rage behavior in the cat and the neurotransmitters associated with these pathways; and (2) determining which components of the circuitry are affected by alcohol administration and which significantly alter the rage mechanism. The experiments described herein incorporated a number of converging methods, which include brain stimulation, behavioral pharmacology, immunocytochemistry, retrograde tract tracing and receptor binding. For behavioral pharmacological studies, monopolar electrodes and cannula-electrodes were implanted into selected regions along the limbic-midbrain axis for electrical stimulation and local microinfusion of drugs. The findings demonstrated: (1) a direct pathway from the anterior medial hypothalamus to the dorsal periaqueductal gray (PAG) over which this response is mediated. This pathway utilizes excitatory amino acids that act upon NMDA receptors within the midbrain PAG; (2) that the region of the dorsal PAG, from which defensive rage could be elicited, receives other inputs from the basal amygdala that facilitate this response by acting upon NMDA receptors; (3) a pathway from the medial amygdala to the medial hypothalamus that also facilitates defensive rage and whose functions are mediated by substance P receptors within the medial hypothalamus; (4) that the PAG also receives enkephalinergic inputs from the central nucleus of amygdala, which act upon mu receptors, and which powerfully suppress defensive rage; and (5) that recent findings reveal that ethanol administration facilitates defensive rage by virtue of its interactions with the medial hypothalamus, its descending projection to the PAG, and possibly with NMDA receptors within this pathway.
The PLA2 activities of both the cytosolic and the membrane fractions from the cerebral cortex of 17-month old senescence-accelerated mouse-prone/10 (SAM-P/10) were significantly increased by 1.3 times compared with those of 2-month old mice. The PLA2 activities were independent of Ca2+ ion and not affected either by dithiothreitol (DTT) or by trifluoromethyl ketone analogs of arachidonic acid (AACOCF3). The PLA2 activities were eluted in a single peak of molecular mass of 170 kDa, using a gel filtration column. These findings suggest that the enhanced PLA2 activity may be related to neuronal degeneration and accelerated senescence of SAM-P/10, and cerebral cortical PLA2 activity categorized as a Ca2+-independent PLA2.
Several pharmacological and electrophysiological studies have shown that the opioid receptors are widely distributed in the gastrointestinal tract. Despite such consensus, there are conflicting findings regarding their effects in intestinal function, and their precise site of action remained unclear. The aim of the present study was therefore to delineate the cellular localization of mu and kappa opioid receptors in rat gastrointestinal tract using polyclonal antibodies generated to C-terminal end of the cloned mu (63 amino acids) and kappa (41 amino acids) receptors. The distribution of mu differs from that of kappa receptors within the gastrointestinal wall, with a greater abundance of mu receptor-like immunoreactive fibres in all intestinal layers. Numerous neurons expressing mu receptor-like proteins were found in the submucosal plexus with comparatively few in the myenteric plexus. In contrast, a higher number of neurons expressing kappa receptor-like immunoreactivity were visualized in the myenteric plexus with a small number in the submucosal plexus. A high number of immunopositive neurons were found in the myenteric plexus of the stomach and the proximal colon with both antibodies. In the submucosal and mucosal layers. mu receptor-immunoreactive fibres were more abundant and distributed around the crypts, blood vessels and lymphatic nodes. Interestingly, numerous mu and fewer kappa receptor-immunoreactive interstitial cells are localized in the region of myenteric plexus and at the internal border of the circular muscle. Finally, smooth muscle cells did not demonstrate any mu- nor kappa-receptor immunoreactivity. These findings suggest that in the rat gastrointestinal tract, mu and kappa opioid receptors may directly influence neuronal and interstitial cell activity. This appears not to be the case for the smooth muscle cells. In the muscular layers, the anatomical data point to mu receptor actions being mediated by nerve terminals, whereas kappa receptor effects may be mediated by both nerve terminals and somatodendritic synaptic mechanisms. In contrast, in the submucosal and mucosal layers, mu receptors predominate and are localized on both nerve terminals and somatodendritic synaptic elements.
Seven days after an intracerebroventricular injection of 0.8 microgram kainic acid, a time of neural tissue-repair after damage, we applied our receptor autoradiographic method to examine changes in the endothelin receptors in kainic acid-induced neural lesions of the rat brain. There were belt-shaped areas with the de novo expressed [125I]endothelin-1 binding sites in the damaged hippocampus CA1, CA3, and CA4 subfields. We also noted a homogeneous zone with a low binding-density, the area sandwiched by the belt-shaped areas. In a &quot;remote&quot; area corresponding anatomically to the deep soma layer of the piriform cortex plus lateral parts of amygdaloid complex we noted a well-defined area with &quot;punched hole-figure&quot; of low density [125I]endothelin-1 binding sites. The lesion was surrounded by areas rich in binding sites. The de novo expressed [125I]endothelin-1 binding sites were characterized endothelin B receptor. Microglia were present in the area with &quot;punched hole-figure&quot; and in the hippocampus pyramidal cell layer with neuronal death. In contrast to microglia, astrocytes were rich with hypertrophia in kainic acid-induced neural lesions anatomically corresponding to areas with the de novo endothelin B receptor. Taken together with the present observations of microscopic evidence of cellular distribution, we suggest that the de novo expressed endothelin B receptor was carried by astrocytes aggregating in neural lesions. In light of our findings, the possibility that astrocytes can be activated by the endothelin B receptor in response to neural tissue repair after damage to neurons would have to be considered.
The adenomatous polyposis coli tumour suppressor protein is highly expressed in developing rodent brain, but its function is unclear. Recent studies have suggested a role for this protein in regulating microtubule dynamics. Neuro 2A mouse neuroblastoma cells were previously thought not to express this protein. Using immunochemical techniques, this report corrects this observation. Immunoreactive bands of a size consistent with that of the full-length protein were observed by western blotting. Using immunocytochemistry, punctate immunoreactivity localized to areas of the cell containing microtubules, particularly neurite growth cones, in a distribution suggesting a role in neuritogenesis and growth cone extension. The protein did not localize to actin-rich cellular structures, and perturbation of the actin cytoskeleton had no effect upon this distribution. Treatment of cells with taxol to stabilize microtubules caused the concentration of the immunoreactive puncta to the tips of microtubules and areas along the axis of potential microtubule assembly. Treatment of cells with the microtubule disrupting reagent nocodazole showed that over shorter times the punctate distribution was not dependent upon polymerized microtubules. However, at longer incubation times a decrease in punctate immunostaining was observed. These results indicate that the intracellular distribution of the adenomatous polyposis coli protein is dependent upon microtubule but not actin dynamics. A role for this protein in the regulation of directed microtubule assembly is suggested.
Cervical or high thoracic spinal cord injury often results in autonomic dysreflexia, a condition characterized by exaggerated spinal reflexes and episodic hypertension, that may be caused by reorganization of synapses on sympathetic preganglionic neurons after loss of supraspinal input. To assess remodelling of synaptic input to identified preganglionic neurons, immunoreactivity for growth associated protein-43 was examined by fluorescent and electron microscopy in control rats with intact spinal cords and in rats seven to 30 days after midthoracic cord transection. This protein is found in mature bulbospinal axons that supply spinal sympathetic nuclei and it is also known to be up-regulated in growing or sprouting axons. In the thoracic cord of control rats, fibres containing growth associated protein-43 surrounded histochemically- or retrogradely-labelled preganglionic neurons and formed a ladder-like pattern in the gray matter. Fibres travelled rostrocaudally along the lateral horn and, at approximately regular intervals, they coursed mediolaterally to form &quot;rungs&quot; of a ladder. Electron microscopy revealed concentrated growth associated protein-43 in many intervaricose axon segments in the intermediolateral cell column. Less frequently, faint immunoreactivity for this protein was found in varicosities, some of which synapsed on retrogradely-labelled sympathoadrenal preganglionic neurons. Electron microscopy of conventionally processed tissue was used to determine the time-course of degeneration of severed axon terminals in the intermediolateral cell column. In spinal rats, terminals with ultrastructural signs of degeneration were numerous in the intermediolateral cell column three days after transection, but were rare at seven days and absent at 14 days. Degenerating terminals were never found in this region in control rats. Thus virtually all supraspinal inputs to preganglionic neurons had been eliminated by seven days after transection. At longer times after injury, terminals containing immunoreactivity for growth associated protein-43 must therefore arise from intraspinal neurons. The distribution of fibres immunoreactive for growth associated protein-43 changed markedly in the first 30 days after cord transection. By 14 days, the ladder-like pattern was distorted rostral to the transection by enlarged masses of immunoreactive fibres surrounding preganglionic neurons, suggesting sprouting of bulbospinal or intraspinal axons or accumulation of this protein in their terminals after the parent axon had been severed. Caudal to the transection, the ladder-like arrangement of fibres was completely replaced by a reticular network of immunoreactive fibres that extended throughout the intermediate gray matter and increased in density between 14 and 30 days. In the intermediolateral cell column, at fourteen days after transection, axons with the ultrastructural features of growth cones contained intense growth associated protein-43 immunoreactivity. Although varicosities of bulbospinal axons containing this protein had degenerated by 14 days, weak immunoreactivity was still found in varicosities that synapsed on labelled sympathoadrenal neurons. Furthermore, immunoreactivity appeared in numerous somata of presumed interneurons throughout the intermediate gray matter by 14 days and the number of somata increased by 30 days. These interneurons may be the source of this protein in the reticular network, and in growth cones and synapses. The loss of supraspinal inputs by seven days after cord transection, and the new intraspinal network of immunoreactive fibres, synapses and cells are consistent with new synapse formation on preganglionic neurons. New synpases on preganglionic neurons may be crucial for the development of autonomic dysreflexia.
Tight ligation of the fifth and sixth lumbar segmental nerves in the rat provides a model of neuropathic pain. We used this model to assess the changes in primary afferent input to the dorsal horn in neuropathic pain syndromes. Dorsal roots and ganglia were examined for up to 32 weeks following segmental nerve ligation. Stereologic and morphometric techniques revealed a notable decrease in the numbers of dorsal root ganglion cells and unmyelinated dorsal root axons by six weeks post-injury. By 32 weeks following segmental nerve ligations, the numbers of dorsal root ganglion cells have dropped to 50% of pre-ligation levels while the numbers of dorsal root axons have increased to normal levels predominantly due to sprouting of myelinated fibres. These findings indicate that although there is a great loss of dorsal root ganglion cells, there is dramatic sprouting of myelinated fibres and possibly some sprouting of unmyelinated fibres in the dorsal roots. Additionally, a difference in the responses of unmyelinated and myelinated fibres to this peripheral nerve injury is revealed. These changes in dorsal root ganglion cells and their central axons may underlie certain aspects of abnormal pain syndromes because of changes in the types and quantity of input the dorsal horn receives.
We previously reported that a permanent transection of adult rat sciatic and hypoglossal nerves resulted in distinct changes in the levels of both low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75) and choline acetyltransferase in the corresponding motoneurons as determined by immunoreactivity. Permanent axotomy of hypoglossal motoneurons induced a progressive loss of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity and a persistent expression of p75 immunoreactivity, phenomena that were not observed in spinal motoneurons. These observations indicated that spinal and brainstem motoneurons respond to permanent axotomy with a differential immunoreactivity for p75 and choline acetyltransferase. Such differences could be ascribed to specific intrinsic properties of each population of motoneurons or, alternatively, to different factors present in the periphery (nerve stump or target muscle). The aim of the present study was to test these two possibilities by determining if a segment of sciatic nerve transplanted to a transected hypoglossal nerve may counteract or attenuate the loss of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in injured hypoglossal motoneurons. In addition, as further parameter, we analysed the presence of p75 immunoreactivity. Prior to grafting, segments of sciatic nerve were prepared by one of three methods: (i) a fresh piece; (ii) a degenerated piece; and (iii) a heated piece. Seven and 30 days following the placement of grafts, hypoglossal motoneurons were analysed for choline acetyltransferase and p75 immunolabelling. The results revealed that viable sciatic grafts (fresh and degenerated) are able to partially attenuate the loss in the number of choline acetyltransferase-positive injured hypoglossal motoneurons, even if an important decrease in choline acetyltransferase still persists with respect to the contralateral nucleus. In addition, viable sciatic grafts decreased the number of p75 immunoreactive hypoglossal motoneurons both at seven and at 30 days. In conclusion, the effects of viable sciatic grafts on the number of choline acetyltransferase and p75-labelled hypoglossal motoneurons indicate that these adult neurons are able to respond to factors released from the sciatic nerve, and that the number of injured motoneurons positive for choline acetyltransferase and p75 can be influenced by the presence of factors that may reach their proximal stumps. Furthermore, we hypothesize that the differential expression patterns between hypoglossal and sciatic motoneurons may be due, at least in part, to factors released from the nerve trunks themselves.
There exist at least two distinct subtypes of angiotensin II receptors in the brain, namely the AT1 and AT2 subtypes. The high density of angiotensin II AT1 receptors is present in the medulla oblongata. The AT1 subtype of angiotensin II receptors mainly mediates central cardiovascular events. In the present study a polyclonal antibody against the angiotensin II AT1 receptor and a monoclonal antibody against tyrosine hydroxylase were employed to evaluate the possible presence of angiotensin II AT1 receptor-like immunoreactivity in the catecholaminergic neurons of the rat medulla oblongata by means of the double colour immunofluorescence technique. A weak, diffuse cytoplasmic angiotensin II AT1 receptor-like immunoreactivity was observed in almost all the catecholaminergic cell bodies of the A2, C1, C2 and C3 cell groups, except those of the A1 cell group containing moderately intense, diffuse cytoplasmic angiotensin II AT1 receptor-like immunoreactivity, occasionally found in the noradrenergic dendrites of the A1 cell group. There was a higher density of the angiotensin II AT1 receptor-like immunoreactive profiles in the A2 cell group area than in other catecholaminergic cell group areas. In addition, the angiotensin II AT1 receptor-like immunoreactivity was seen in non-catecholaminergic neurons. The present results provide evidence for the existence of the specific angiotensin II AT1 receptor-like immunoreactivity in the noradrenergic and adrenergic neurons of the rat medulla oblongata known to have a cardiovascular role. Thus, the findings support the view that angiotensin II AT1 receptors in the medulla oblongata participate in cardiovascular control and indicate a cellular substrate for the documented interaction between the angiotensin II and adrenergic transmission lines in cardiovascular function at the level of the nucleus tractus solitarii.
Cell proliferation in the accessory olfactory bulb of the adult rat was analysed after systemic injection of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine, detected immunocytochemically at different survival times and compared with proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunostaining. As previously described in the main olfactory bulb, local cell proliferation was absent or very limited. By contrast, starting from 15 days after bromodeoxyuridine administration, many immunoreactive nuclei were present in the granular layer, and to a lesser extent, in other layers of the accessory olfactory bulb. This suggests that the newly-generated cells are migrating elements of the rostral migratory stream which are known to reach the olfactory bulb in 15 days. By immunocytochemical detection of the polysialylated isoform of the neural cell adhesion molecule, a weakly-adhesive cell-surface molecule expressed by newly-generated/migrating cells of the rostral migratory stream, we found a high number of immunoreactive cells in the different layers of the accessory olfactory bulb. Most of these cells were observed in the granular layer and showed the morphology of migrating neuroblasts. Some immunoreactive cells displaying neuronal morphology were also detected in the external plexiform and glomerular layers. Double labelling experiments demonstrated that these cells are newly-generated cells. These results demonstrate the occurrence of newly-added cells in the accessory olfactory bulb of the adult rat, which likely correspond to the neuronal precursors originating from the rostral migratory stream. This could be relevant since the accessory olfactory bulb of rodents plays an important role in the hard wiring of a simple olfactory memory system for sexual pheromones.
Oxytocin acts within the limbic system (bed nuclei of the stria terminalis and ventrolateral septum) to induce maternal behaviour and to facilitate neuroendocrine activity at specific times during the peripartum period. Studies were undertaken to determine whether the timing of these effects arises from modulation of the oxytocin-induced excitation of limbic neurons. Extracellular activity of single units was recorded on urethane-anaesthetized rats and neurons were tested for responses to intracerebroventricular injection of 1.1 ng oxytocin. In the first part, animals were recorded on days 19 and 22 of pregnancy and on days 3 and 5 of lactation. No significant differences in the basal firing rates or in the proportion of oxytocin-responsive neurons were detected, but responses by neurons on day 22 of pregnancy occurred after a significant delay (10.7 +/- 2.0 min), resulting in a smaller overall response compared to the other groups. These differences in the pattern of response were not due to changes in density of oxytocin binding in the limbic areas studied, since autoradiographic detection of oxytocin binding sites using the iodinated antagonist [125I]d(CH2)5[Tyr(Me)2, Thr4, Orn3, Tyr-NH2(9)]-vasotocin showed no differences between the pregnant and postpartum animals. In the second part, parturient animals (day 22 of pregnancy) received intravenous injection of the long-acting opioid antagonist naltrexone, or unilateral knife-cut lesions to the stria terminalis, a source of inhibitory inputs (including enkephalinergic) to the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis and ventrolateral septum. Both treatments abolished the characteristic delay of oxytocin-induced excitation in non-treated animals on day 22 of pregnancy, and increased the overall excitatory response. Thus, during the peripartum period, a population of limbic neurons sensitive to oxytocin display a dynamically changing pattern of excitatory responses, apparently modulated by an endogenous opioid cone and independent of changes in oxytocin receptor expression. The attenuated neuronal response to central oxytocin seen on the day of parturition could account for the absence of a facilitatory effect of oxytocin on neuroendocrine activity at this time.
The synaptic alterations induced in abducens motoneurons by the injection of 3 ng/kg of botulinum neurotoxin type A into the lateral rectus muscle were studied using ultrastructural and electrophysiological techniques. Motoneurons identified by the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase showed a progressive synaptic stripping already noticeable by four days post-injection which increased over the study period. By 35 days post-injection, the normal coverage of motoneurons by synaptic boutons (66.4 +/- 4.0%) significantly decreased to 27.2 +/- 4.0%. Synaptic boutons detached by a widening of the subsynaptic space but remained apposed by synaptic contacts and desmosomes to the motoneuron. Detachment did not affect equally flat and round vesicle-containing boutons. The control motoneuron had almost equal numbers of both types of boutons, but after 35 days post-injection the ratio of round to flat vesicle-containing boutons was 1.20 +/- 0.01. Synaptic boutons impinging on motoneurons showed signs of alterations in membrane turnover, as indicated by an increase in the number of synaptic vesicles and a decrease in the number of coated vesicles and synaptic vesicles near the active zone. Abducens motoneurons had a transient increase in soma size by 15 days that returned to normal at 35 days, but no signs of chromatolysis or organelle degeneration were seen. Accompanying the swelling of motoneurons, a 15-fold increase in the number of spines, very infrequent in controls, was observed. Spines located in the soma and proximal dendritic trunk received synaptic contacts from both flat and round vesicle-containing boutons that could be either partly detached or completely attached to the motoneuron. An increased turnover of the plasmatic membrane of the motoneuron was observed, as indicated by a four-fold increase in the number of somatic coated vesicles. Animals were implanted with bipolar electrodes in the ampulla of both horizontal semicircular canals for evoking contralateral excitatory and ipsilateral inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Motoneurons were antidromically identified from the lateral rectus muscle. Synaptic potentials of vestibular origin were recorded in abducens motoneurons. In the period between two and six days post-injection, a complete abolition of inhibitory synaptic potentials was observed. By contrast, excitatory synaptic potentials remained, but were reduced by 82%. The imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory inputs to motoneurons induced a progressive increase of firing frequency within a few stimuli applied to the contralateral canal. Between 7 and 15 days post-injection, both excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were virtually abolished and remained so up to the longest time checked (105 days). Some motoneurons recorded beyond 60 days post-injection showed signs of recovery of excitatory postsynaptic potentials. During the whole time-span studied, presynaptic wavelets were present, indicating no affecting of the conduction of afferent volleys to the abducens nucleus. Taken together, these data indicate that botulinum neurotoxin at high doses causes profound synaptic alterations in motoneurons responsible for the effects seen in the behavior of motoneurons recorded in alert animals.
The discharge characteristics that abducens motoneurons exhibit after paralysis of the lateral rectus muscle with botulinum neurotoxin type A were studied in the alert cat. Antidromically identified motoneurons were recorded during both spontaneous and vestibularly induced eye movements. A single injection of 0.3 ng/kg produced a complete paralysis of the lateral rectus muscle lasting for about 12-15 days, whereas after 3 ng/kg the paralysis was still complete at the longest time checked, three months. Motoneurons recorded under the effect of the low dose showed differences in their sensitivities to both eye position and velocity according to the direction of the previous and ongoing movements, respectively. These directional differences could be explained by post-saccadic adaptation of the non-injected eye in the appropriate direction for reducing ocular misalignment. Thus, backward and forward post-saccadic drifts accompanied on- and off-directed saccades, respectively. The magnitude of the drift was similar to the magnitude of changes in eye position sensitivity. The discharge of the high-dose-treated motoneurons could be described in a three-stage sequence. During the initial 10-12 days, motoneuronal discharge resembled the effects of axotomy, particularly in the loss of tonic signals and the presence of exponential-like decay of firing after saccades. In this stage, the conduction velocity of abducens motoneurons was reduced by 21.4%. The second stage was characterized by an overall reduction in firing rate towards a tonic firing at 15-70 spikes/s. Motoneurons remained almost unmodulated for all types of eye movement and thus eye position and velocity sensitivities were significantly reduced. Tonic firing ceased only when the animal became drowsy, but was restored by alerting stimuli. In addition, the inhibition of firing for off-directed saccades was more affected than the burst excitation during on-directed saccades, since in many cells pauses were almost negligible. These alterations could not be explained by adaptational changes in the movement of the non-injected eye. Finally, after 60 days the initial stages of recovery were observed. The present results indicate that the high dose of botulinum neurotoxin produces effects on the motoneuron not attributable to the functional disconnection alone, but to a direct effect of the neurotoxin in the motoneuron and/or its synaptic inputs.
The distribution of glutamate receptors GluR2/3 and NR1 was analysed immunohistochemically during development of the rat cerebellum. GluR2/3 immunoreactivity appeared by postnatal day P0 in somata of Purkinje cells. Throughout P7, P15, P20 and adulthood, GluR2/3 immunoreactivity was found in the entire Purkinje cell dendritic arbor reaching to the external granular layer and, by P15, the surface of the cerebellum. By P7, the granular layer revealed scattered, mildly reactive, cells. NR-1 immunoreactivity first gained prominence about P7 in the region of the multi-layered Purkinje cell somata. By P15, NR1 was prominent in Purkinje cell somata and Golgi cells. The reaction product extended into the primary main dendrite of Purkinje cells. By P21, stellate and basket cells had intense reactivity throughout the molecular layer and reactive large-diameter dendrites of Golgi cells projected toward the molecular layer. Granule cells remained very weak among strongly reactive Golgi cell somata and dendrites. Ultrastructural immunohistochemistry revealed NR1 reaction product in Purkinje cell somata, in stellate cell somata and dendrites and on postsynaptic membranes of scattered spines throughout the molecular layer. The later appearance and restricted location of NR1 in somata and proximal dendrites of Purkinje cells contrasted markedly with GluR2/3 which appeared before birth and remained prominent throughout Purkinje cell dendritic arbors of adults. The time of NR1 expression correlated with the generation of granule cells, their synaptogenesis on Purkinje cells, the formation of stellate/baske cells and the shift of climbing fibre synapses from distal to proximal dendrites. The developmental appearance of stellate/basket cells and Golgi cells as well as their high reactivity remaining into adulthood suggest that these inhibitory molecular and granular layer interneurons are the principal targets of glutamate axons serving NR1 synaptic properties while Purkinje cells and brush type granule cells are targets for glutamate connections with GluR2/3 characteristics.
The isolated, in vitro whole brain of guinea-pig was used to assess some of the main physiological and pharmacological properties of the vestibulo-ocular pathways in this species. Extracellular and intracellular recordings were obtained from the vestibular, abducens and oculomotor nuclei, as well as from the abducens and oculomotor nerves, while inputs from the vestibular afferents, the visual pathways and the spinal cord were activated. The three main types of medial vestibular nucleus neurons (A, B and B+LTS), previously described on slices, were also identified in the isolated brain. They had similar membrane properties in both preparations. Eighty-five per cent of cells recorded in the vestibular nucleus responded with monosynaptic, excitatory postsynaptic potentials (latency 1.05-1.9 ms) to stimulation of the ipsilateral vestibular nerve, and were thus identified as second-order vestibular neurons. In addition, stimulation of the contralateral vestibular afferents revealed in most cases a disynaptic or trisynaptic, commissural inhibition. Second-order vestibular neurons displayed in the isolated brain a high degree of variability of their spontaneous activity, as in alert guinea-pigs. Type A neurons always exhibited a regular firing, while type B and B+LTS cells could have very irregular patterns of spontaneous discharge. Thus, type A and type B neurons might correspond, respectively, to the tonic and phasic vestibular neurons described in vivo. The regularity of spontaneous discharge was positively correlated with the amplitude of spike after hyperpolarization, and there was a trend for irregular neurons to be excited from ipsilateral vestibular afferents at shorter latencies than regular units. Synaptic activation could trigger subthreshold plateau potentials and low-threshold spikes in some of the second-order vestibular neurons. As a second step, the pharmacology of the synaptic transmission between primary vestibular afferents and second-order neurons was assessed using specific antagonists of the glutamatergic receptors. Both the synaptic field potentials and excitatory postsynaptic potentials elicited in the medial vestibular nucleus by single shock stimulation of the ipsilateral vestibular nerve were largely or, sometimes, totally blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, indicating a dominating role of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor-mediated glutamatergic transmission. The remaining component of the responses was completely or partially suppressed by DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid in 35% of the cases, suggesting a concomitant, moderate involvement of N-methyl-D-asparate receptors. In addition, a synaptic response resistant to both antagonists, but sensitive to a zero Ca2+/high Mg(2+)-containing solution, was often observed. Finally, recordings from abducens and oculomotor complexes confirmed the existence in the guinea-pig of strong bilateral, disynaptic excitatory and inhibitory inputs from vestibular afferents to motoneurons of extraocular muscles, which contribute to generation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex. The functional integrity of vestibular-related pathways in the isolated brain was additionally checked by stimulation of the spinal cord and optic tract. Stimulation of the spinal cord evoked, in addition to antidromic responses in the vestibular nucleus, short-latency synaptic responses in both the vestibular nucleus and abducens motoneurons, suggesting possible recruitment of spinal afferents. Activation of visual pathways at the level of the optic chiasm often induced long latency responses in the various structures under study. These results demonstrate that the in vitro isolated brain can be readily used for detailed, functional studies of the neuronal networks underlying gaze and posture control.
The effect of transitory blockage of substantia nigra pars compacta glutamatergic inputs by intracranial injections of kynurenic acid were evaluated in two monkey treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). The MPTP protocol was designed to mimic the gradual evolution of human Parkinson's disease. No effects were observed before MPTP treatment or in the first stage of treatment. Once clinical signs appeared, however, motor abnormalities were significantly aggravated by blockage of these inputs (P &lt; 0.001). Conversely, after full Parkinsonism was established, blockage no longer had any behavioural effect. These results confirm the postulated compensatory role of the glutamatergic pathways feeding the substantia nigra pars compacta. This added insight into the physiopathology of the basal ganglia, when compared with previous data on the presymptomatic revelation of experimental Parkinsonism, should help elucidation of the time pattern of evolution of Parkinson's disease.
Extracellular recordings and immunohistological detection of c-Fos-like immunoreactive proteins were used to determine the synaptic effect of the parafascicular projection to the globus pallidus. Electrical stimulation of the parafascicular neurons induced a single-spike excitatory response with a stable latency of 2.3 ms, suggesting a monosynaptically driven effect. Pharmacological stimulation of the parafascicular nucleus with carbachol increased tonically the pallidal discharge rate by 142%. The discharge rate of the pallidal neurons was described by 37% in parafascicular-lesioned rats. These results demonstrate the excitatory nature and the tonic action of the parafasciculopallidal projection. Carbachol activation of parafascicular neurons also induced the synthesis of c-Fos-like immunoreactive proteins in the pallidal neurons. Control experiments in subthalamic-lesioned rats showed that the parafascicular excitation of the pallidal neurons remained, but both electrophysiological and expression of c-Fos-like immunoreactive proteins were attenuated. This suggests that the direct parafascicular excitation of the pallidal neurons is indirectly reinforced by the previously described parafascicular excitatory input to the subthalamic nucleus. Conversely, the effect of this last input to the subthalamic nucleus is dramatically enhanced in rats with pallidal lesion. Our results demonstrate the complex role of the parafascicular nucleus in activating both the globus pallidus and the subthalamic nucleus, two closely related structures. These results illustrate the integrative capacities of the globus pallidus, whose activity is modulated by multiple afferents.
Several lines of evidence suggest that the cholinergic neurons of the mesopontine tegmentum contain elevated levels of glutamate and are the source of cholinergic terminals in the subthalamic nucleus and entopeduncular nucleus. The object of this study was to test whether cholinergic terminals in the entopeduncular nucleus and subthalamic nucleus, also express relatively high levels of glutamate. To address this, double immunocytochemistry was performed at the electron microscopic level. Perfuse-fixed sections of rat brain were immunolabelled to reveal choline acetyltransferase by the pre-embedding avidin-biotin-peroxidase method. Serial ultrathin sections of cholinergic terminals in both the entoped uncular nucleus and subthalamic nucleus were then subjected to post-embedding immunocytochemistry to reveal glutamate and GABA. Quantification of the immunogold labelling showed that choline acetyltransferase-immunopositive terminals and boutons in both regions were significantly enriched in glutamate immunoreactivity and had significantly lower levels of GABA immunoreactivity in comparison to identified GABAergic terminals. Furthermore, the presumed transmitter pool of glutamate i.e. that associated with synaptic vesicles, was significantly greater in the choline acetyltransferase-positive terminals than identified GABA terminals, albeit significantly lower than in established glutamatergic terminals. In the entopeduncular nucleus, a small proportion of cholinergic terminals displayed high levels of GABA immunoreactivity. Taken together with other immunocytochemical and tracing data, the elevated levels of glutamate in cholinergic terminals in the entopeduncular nucleus and subthalamic nucleus, is further evidence adding weight to the suggestion that acetylcholine and glutamate may be co-localized in both the perikarya and terminals of at least a proportion of neurons of the mesopontine tegmentum.
The patch-matrix organization of the striatal complex, which is fundamental to the structural and functional organization of the basal ganglia, is characterized on the basis of both connections and neurochemistry. In order to determine whether differences in the connections and neurochemistry are reflected in differences in synaptic organization, we examined the synaptology of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal projection in the patch-matrix complex of the rat. Three approaches were used. First, deposits of the anterograde tracer, biotinylated dextran amine, were placed in the substantia nigra. Sections of perfuse-fixed neostriatum were then processed to reveal anterogradely-labelled nigrostriatal axons and calbindin-D28k immunoreactivity, a marker for the patch-matrix complex. Secondly, sections of perfuse-fixed neostriatum were immunolabelled to reveal both tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker for dopaminergic structures and calbindin-D28k. Labelled axons in the patches and the matrix were examined at both the light and the electron microscopic levels. Finally, in order to test for the presence of fixed GABA in sub-type of anterogradely-labelled terminals in the neostriatum, ultrathin sections were immunolabelled by the post-embedding immunogold method. Based on morphological analysis, anterogradely-labelled nigrostriatal axons were divided into two types (Type I and Type II). The density of tyrosine hydroxylase labelling in the neostriatum prevented the classification of immunolabelled nigrostriatal axons. The Type I anterogradely-labelled axons and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive axons were found both in the patches and in the matrix. They both formed symmetrical synapses with spines, dendrites and occasionally somata. The morphology, dimensions, type of synaptic specialization and the distribution of postsynaptic targets of axons labelled by both methods were similar in the patches and the matrix. The Type I anterogradely-labelled axons were immunonegative for GABA. The Type II anterogradely-labelled axons were GABA-immunopositive, were found only in the matrix and were only present in those animals in which retrograde labelling was observed in the globus pallidus, they are thus not part of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal projection. It is concluded that although the patch-directed and matrix-directed dopaminergic projections from the ventral mesencephalon arise from different populations of dopaminergic neurons, their innervation of neurons in the patches and matrix is similar. The anatomical substrate, and therefore probably also the mechanism, for dopaminergic modulation of the flow of cortical information through the striatal complex in essentially the same in the patch and in the matrix sub-divisions of the striatal complex.
The action of synthetic kava pyrones, (+)-methysticin and (+/-)-kavain, on voltage-operated Na(+)-channels was studied in whole-cell patch-clamped CA1 hippocampal neurons. In doses of 1-400 microM, both compounds exerted a rapid and reversible inhibition of the peak amplitude of Na(+)-currents. Shifting holding membrane potential (Vhold) to more positive values enhanced their blocking effect. The drugs studied did not demonstrate use-dependent properties at 10 Hz stimulation but shifted H infinity curve toward more negative potentials, accelerated time-course of inactivation and slowed down the recovery from inactivation. Voltage-dependence of Na(+)-channel inhibition can be explained by interaction of (+)-methysticin and (+/-)-kavain with resting closed and inactivated states of Na(+)-channel.
Four groups of monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were injected with saline or increasing amounts of the immunotoxin, ME20.4 IgG-saporin, directly into the basal nucleus of Meynert via a frontal trajectory which avoided damage to the overlying basal ganglia. ME20.4 IgG binds to the primate p75 low-affinity neurotrophin receptor, when the saporin derivitized antibody is injected into the basal forebrain, it selectively destroys the magnocellular neurons of the basal nucleus of Meynert which are the cells of origin of the cholinergic projection to the neocortex. The highest dose of ME20.4 IgG-saporin produced a significant impairment on acquisition of a perceptually difficult visual discrimination. There was no significant effect on retention of tasks learnt before or after surgery, nor on concurrent acquisition of several perceptually easy discriminations or serial reversal of an easy discrimination. These results suggest that the impairment is not due to visual, motor or motivational difficulties and does not consist of difficulties with the formation of reward associations. Rather the impairment is largely confined to acquisition of perceptual discriminations. There was a significant correlation between the density of ME20.4 immunostaining in the basal nucleus of Meynert and the density of acetylcholinesterase histochemical staining in the frontal and temporal cortex and an inverse correlation between both of these and the degree of learning impairment in the animals. Lesioned animals also showed significant impairment on acquisition and reversal of perceptually easy discriminations when treated with a dose of scopolamine which did not impair performance in control animals. These results provide further evidence that cortical cholinergic neurotransmission contributes to certain forms of learning. The availability of a selective cholinergic immunotoxin effective in primates provides an important new tool for the study of cholinergic function and its involvement in ageing, Alzheimer's disease and other pathological states.
Neuronal nitric oxide synthase produces nitric oxide, a radical involved in neurotransmission as well as in cytotoxicity during stroke and neurodegenerative diseases. In the adult Wistar rat neuronal nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons are inhomogenously distributed along defined cortical areas, with highest densities (18 cells/mm2) in cingular area 1, piriform cortex, frontal motor area Fr 2 and in the medial visual association area Oc 2MM. A medium packing density of neuronal nitric oxide synthase neurons (10/mm2) characterizes primary sensory areas, whereas retrosplenial cortices contain lowest cell numbers (3-5/mm2). The data suggest that functions of certain cortical areas are more dependent on intracortically produced nitric oxide than others, and that cortical injury may cause more severe nitric oxide related cytotoxicity in areas with higher numbers of neuronal nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons.
A central problem in learning theory is how the vertebrate brain processes reinforcing stimuli in order to master complex sensorimotor tasks. This problem belongs to the domain of supervised learning, in which errors in the response of a neural network serve as the basis for modification of synaptic connectivity in the network and thereby train it on a computational task. The model presented here shows how a reinforcing feedback can modify synapses in a neuronal network according to the principles of Hebbian learning. The reinforcing feedback steers synapses towards long-term potentiation or depression by critically influencing the rise in postsynaptic calcium, in accordance with findings on synaptic plasticity in mammalian brain. An important feature of the model is the dependence of modification thresholds on the previous history of reinforcing feedback processed by the network. The learning algorithm trained networks successfully on a task in which a population vector in the motor output was required to match a sensory stimulus vector presented shortly before. In another task, networks were trained to compute coordinate transformations by combining different visual inputs. The model continued to behave well when simplified units were replaced by single-compartment neurons equipped with several conductances and operating in continuous time. This novel form of reinforcement learning incorporates essential properties of Hebbian synaptic plasticity and thereby shows that supervised learning can be accomplished by a learning rule similar to those used in physiologically plausible models of unsupervised learning. The model can be crudely correlated to the anatomy and electrophysiology of the amygdala, prefrontal and cingulate cortex and has predictive implications for further experiments on synaptic plasticity and learning processes mediated by these areas.
We studied the effect of convergent clustering of ampullary electroreceptor organs on stimulus transduction and transmission in the catfish Icalurus melas by electrophysiologically recording primary afferent activity of single ampullae (singlets) and pairs (doublets) innervated by the same afferent. Doublets were twice as sensitive as singlets, and showed sharper tuning around the best frequency. The slope of the phase curve in the doublets was slightly steeper than in the singlets. The spontaneous activity and scatter in interspike interval were not correlated with clustering. The implications of these findings for signal averaging in sensory neurons and their relevance for behaviour are discussed.
A large class of neural pattern generators change their rhythmic output under the influence of neuromodulators. We present a method for identifying the variety of rhythmic patterns generated by small neural networks. The technique provides a tool for investigating the biological mechanisms responsible for pattern generation and pattern switching. Discrete methods based on transition graphs are applied to dynamic biological networks to generate sets of possible rhythmic behaviours. A measure is introduced onto the set of rhythms to quantify their differences and organize the set according to clusters of similar rhythms. Each cluster represents a different operational mode of the network. Examples are drawn from the stomatogastric ganglion, a well studied network that controls the muscles in the foregut of crustaceans. Classes of rhythms are found that correspond to experimentally observed patterns, and other classes of rhythms are found that have not yet been observed. Predictions are made for the rhythmic output of the stomatogastric ganglion under specific manipulations of parameters in the biological network.
The cross-sectional areas and succinate dehydrogenase activities of L5 dorsal root ganglion neurons in rats were determined after 14 days of spaceflight and after nine days of recovery. The mean and distribution of the cross-sectional areas were similar to age-matched, ground-based controls for both the spaceflight and for the spaceflight plus recovery groups. The mean succinate dehydrogenase activity was significantly lower in spaceflight compared to aged-matched control rats, whereas the mean succinate dehydrogenase activity was similar in age-matched control and spaceflight plus recovery rats. The mean succinate dehydrogenase activity of neurons with cross-sectional areas between 1000 and 2000 microns2 was lower (between 7 and 10%) in both the spaceflight and the spaceflight plus recovery groups compared to the appropriate control groups. The reduction in the oxidative capacity of a subpopulation of sensory neurons having relatively large cross-sectional areas immediately following spaceflight and the sustained depression for nine days after returning to 1 g suggest that the 0 g environment induced significant alterations in proprioceptive function.
In the peripheral nerve, regenerating axonal sprouts usually emanate at nodes of Ranvier, and extend as growth cones along the inner surface of Schwann cells and/or through Schwann cell columns in the distal nerve segment. In order to elucidate the significance of Ca(2+)-independent protein kinase C in nerve regeneration, localizations of delta, epsilon and zeta subtypes were examined immunocytochemically in sprouts and growth cones of regenerating axons, as well as in normal intact nerves in the rat sciatic nerve. In normal nerves, intense immunoreactivities of delta, epsilon and zeta subtypes were present in axons of both myelinated and unmyelinated fibres. Subcellularly, the distribution of these subtypes in the axoplasm was patchy, and discontinuous in the axolemma and subaxolemmal peripheral zones of myelinated nerves. Some thin myelinated axons showed no immunoreactivity for epsilon subtype. Schwann cells of both myelinated and unmyelinated fibres had moderate immunoreactivities for each subtype. In areas of nerve regeneration, axonal sprouts at nodes of Ranvier, and growth cones extending along Schwann cell basal laminae, had intense immunoreactivities for delta, epsilon and zeta subtypes which are distributed diffusely throughout the axoplasm, and on the entire axolemma. In the sprouts, immunoreactivity for epsilon subtype was strong on the axolemma, but weak or almost absent in the axoplasm. These data, together with those of our previous study, indicate that Ca(2+)-independent protein kinase C subtypes (delta, epsilon and zeta) have basically the same distribution patterns as those of Ca(2+)-dependent subtypes in sprouts and growth cones of regenerating axons, as well as in normal intact axons; albeit epsilon subtype is somewhat different in distribution and intensity from delta and zeta subtypes. It is suggested that Ca(2+)-independent subtypes are involved in maintaining growth cone activities along with the Ca(2+)-dependent subtypes.
Tumour necrosis factor-alpha, a pro-inflammatory cytokine, is expressed endoneurially following a variety of local and systemic pathophysiological insults which give rise to pain. We administered tumour necrosis factor-alpha to pentobarbital-anaesthetized rats, either topically along a restricted portion of the sciatic nerve or injected subcutaneously within the distribution of the sural nerve. Single nociceptive primary afferent fibres were assessed for ectopic discharge and receptor sensitization. Low concentrations (0.001-0.01 ng/ml) of tumour necrosis factor-alpha applied along the nerve elicited a dose-dependent, rapid onset (1-3 min) increase in discharge; higher concentrations led to reduced firing rates. C-fibres developed higher mean firing frequencies than A delta-fibres. Bursting frequency in both fibre types reached several (6) Hz. No change in mechanical threshold was observed. Intradermal injection (50 pg in 50 microliters) led to ectopic discharge and a decrease in mechanical threshold; these effects developed at different rates, suggesting multiple actions of the cytokine. Our data suggest that acute application of tumour necrosis factor-alpha to the axon can lead to aberrant electrophysiologic activity independent of peripheral receptor involvement. This low level of ectopic firing of nociceptive axons may produce wind-up in dorsal horn neurons or may, by itself, be interpreted as pain.
Nociceptin (a heptadecapeptide also known as orphanin FQ) is a potent endogenous agonist of the opioid receptor-like1 receptor and has a sequence similar to dynorphin A. It has been reported that intracerebroventricularly injected nociceptin produced hyperalgesia in mice and that intrathecal injection of nociceptin inhibits the spinal sensitization. In the present study, we investigated the effect of intrathecally administered nociceptin in the rat formalin test (a model of inflammatory pain) and the rat hot plate test. In the formalin test, drugs were administered 10 min before (pre-treatment study) or 7 min after (post-treatment study) the formalin injection. The paw formalin injection induces a biphasic flinching (phase 1, 0-7 min; phase 2, 10-60 min) of the injected paw. In the pre-treatment study, intrathecally administered nociceptin depressed both the phase 1 and phase 2 flinching behaviour in a dose-dependent manner, and, in the post-treatment study, intrathecal injection of nociceptin depressed the phase 2 flinching behaviour. In the pre-treatment study, the potency of nociceptin in depressing the phase 1 response was the same as that in depressing the phase 2 response. These effects of nociceptin were not antagonized by the co-administration of naloxone. Intrathecal injection of nociceptin had no effect on the hot plate test. These data suggest that nociceptin plays an important role in spinal nociceptive transmission through the activation of a naloxone-insensitive receptor, and spinally administered nociceptin produces an analgesic effect during the rat formalin test, but not the hot plate test.
The pontine parabrachial nucleus is considered to be one of the most critical regions for the acquisition of conditioned taste aversion which is an associative learning of taste and illness. To further clarify the possible involvement of the parabrachial nucleus in conditioned taste aversion, we recorded neuronal responses to taste stimuli from the parabrachial nucleus of rats under deep urethane anaesthesia. Animals were separated into two groups: the conditioned taste aversion group that had acquired a taste aversion to 0.1 M NaCl (conditioned stimulus) after paired presentations of the taste stimulus with intraperitoneal injection of LiCl (unconditioned stimulus), and the control group that had received only the unconditioned stimulus before experiments. Taste-responsive neurons in the conditioned taste aversion group showed larger responses to NaCl at below 0.1 M, but similar responses to 0.3 M and 0.5 M NaCl when compared with those in the control group. Furthermore, hierarchical cluster analyses revealed a strong similarity among responses to sodium salts in neurons of the conditioned taste aversion group compared with the control group. These results suggest that the aversive conditioning to NaCl modified parabrachial units so that the sodium taste was more salient than other tastes. This modification may reflect a long-term plastic change persisting without support of forebrain structures, and would facilitate the gustatory discrimination of the conditioned stimulus, which is required by conditioned animals.
Apoptosis has been known to contribute to neuronal death following a variety of brain insults. However, the role of vasogenic brain edema in neuronal apoptosis is unknown. We studied the temporal pattern of brain edema and neuronal apoptosis following cold injury. Cold injury-induced brain edema, which was detected by the increased water content in the injured hemisphere, reached its maximum level at 24 h and remained there at 72 h, whereas the blood-brain barrier breakdown detected by Evans Blue extravasation returned to the control value by 24 h after injury. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated uridine-5'-triphosphate-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL)-positive apoptotic cells were scattered in the center of the lesion at 1 h and were dispersed over the cold lesion at 24 h. The number of these TUNEL-positive cells was maximized in the periphery but decreased in the center at 72 h after cold injury. We postulate that secondary neuronal damage occurred not only through necrotic, but also apoptotic pathways, and that apoptotic neuronal death may result from vasogenic edema development and may contribute to the expansion of the lesion in both the acute and delayed phases after cold injury.
In order to elucidate the mechanism(s) of neuronal protection by hypothermia against ischemic damage, we examined the effect of lowering temperature on the microglial activation that is thought to cause the development of ischemia-induced neuronal damages. Cultured microglia from neonatal rats were measured for microglial activation by the following indices: production of superoxide and nitric oxide by the methods of acetyl-cytochrome c reduction and nitrite accumulation in the culture medium, respectively, and cell proliferation evaluated by [3H]thymidine uptake. At 30 degrees C, superoxide production induced by phorbol ester was approximately as low as 30% of the control at 37 degrees C, and nitric oxide production after addition of lipopolysaccharide was decreased to approximately 25% of the control. The time course of nitric oxide production indicates that the induction of nitric oxide synthase seemed to be significantly suppressed by lowering temperature. In addition, the proliferation of microglia was remarkably inhibited at 30 degrees C. The level of proliferation in the hypothermic condition is much lower in microglia (14% of the control) than those in astrocytes cultured from brain cortices (96%) and fibroblasts cultured from brain meninges (53%), suggesting that the microglial activation is highly susceptible to lowering temperature. The present study indicates that hypothermia potently inhibits proliferation, superoxide and nitric oxide production of cultured microglia and that the hypothermic protection against postischemic neuronal damage might be, at least in part, due to the suppression of microglial activation.
