A prominent issue in cognitive neuroscience is whether language function is instantiated in the brain as a single undifferentiated process, or whether regions of relative specialisation can be demonstrated. The contrast between regular and irregular English verb inflection has been pivotal to this debate. Behavioural dissociations related to different lesion sites in brain-damaged patients suggest that processing regular and irregular past tenses involves different neural systems. Using event-related fMRI in a group of unimpaired young adults, we contrast processing of spoken regular and irregular past tense forms in a same-different judgement task, shown in earlier research with patients to engage left hemisphere language systems. An extensive fronto-temporal network, linking anterior cingulate (ACC), left inferior frontal cortex (LIFC) and bilateral superior temporal gyrus (STG), was preferentially activated for regularly inflected forms. Access to meaning from speech is supported by temporal cortex, but additional processing is required for forms that end in regular inflections, which differentially engage LIFC processes that support morpho-phonological segmentation and grammatical analysis.
A behavioral dissociation between intention and action was demonstrated by patient AF who sustained damage to the left-hemisphere including the basal ganglia. The patient was tested in a task switching paradigm involving two choice reaction-time tasks: SIZE (small/large) and SHAPE (circle/square). The last block in each of the two sessions involved only one task. AF switched tasks reasonably well in the first 40 trials, but unlike her matched control group, in all the remaining trials when two tasks were involved, she performed only the SIZE task. Interestingly, although no task switching took place, AF continued to demonstrate behaviorally her intention to switch tasks. First, she exhibited &quot;task alternation cost&quot;, poorer performance relative to instructed single-task trials. Second, shifting to an instructed single-task condition was accompanied by an initial response slowing, indicating a change in goal-state. Finally, when instructed to switch tasks, AF demonstrated the &quot;task-congruency effect&quot;, indicating interference from the instructed but competing stimulus-response mapping. Two groups of university students were instructed to perform only the SIZE task, after initial switching, either while ignoring the SHAPE cues (&quot;Ignore&quot;) or while being prepared for the SHAPE task only when the cue appeared in red, which never happened (&quot;Attend color&quot;). AF's performance resembled the one of the &quot;Attend color&quot; group and not the &quot;Ignore&quot; group. The results indicate that AF had a partially activated intention to switch tasks. The implications to intentionality and task switching theory are discussed.
ADHD is a childhood-onset behavioural disorder with a heterogeneous profile of neuropsychological impairment. Neuropsychological heterogeneity may, in part, reflect underlying genetic differences. Here we examined sustained attention, response variability and spatial attentional asymmetries in a sample of children and adolescents with ADHD (n=22) in relation to dopamine transporter genotype (DAT1) and also controls (n=20). Participants performed the sustained attention to response task (SART) (testing sustained attention and response variability) and the greyscales task (a perceptual measure of attentional bias). The latter has previously been shown to yield a robust leftward attentional asymmetry in healthy subjects. The 10-repeat allele of the DAT1 gene has been associated with ADHD in a number of studies and appears to have biological significance. The ADHD group was sub-divided into those individuals with two copies of the &quot;high-risk&quot; 10-repeat allele (high-risk DAT1) versus those with one or no copies of this allele (low-risk DAT1). The high-risk DAT1 ADHD group displayed greater response variability on the SART than either the low-risk DAT1 group or healthy controls, whereas the latter two groups did not differ. Further, the high-risk DAT1 group showed an attenuated spatial asymmetry, relative to the low-risk DAT1 ADHD group, who showed the typical leftward attentional asymmetry. Our results suggest that the 10-repeat DAT1 allele may mediate neuropsychological impairment in ADHD. The application of molecular genetics may help to define neuropsychological impaired subgroups of ADHD.
Reed, Vernon, and Johnson [Reed, T. E., Vernon, P. A., &amp; Johnson, A. M. (2004). Sex difference in brain nerve conduction velocity in normal humans. Neuropsychologia, 42, 1709-1714] reported that &quot;nerve conduction velocity&quot; (NCV) of visual transmission from retina to the primary visual area (V1) is significantly faster in males than females. The authors estimated the NCV by dividing head length (nasion-to-inion distance) by the latency of the well-known P100 component of the visual evoked potential (VEP). Here, we critically examine these metrics and we contend that knowledge of the underlying physiology of neural transmission across the initial stages of the visual processing hierarchy dictates that a number of their assumptions cannot be reasonably upheld. Alternative, and we believe, more parsimonious interpretations of the data are also proposed.
Perceptual priming for emotionally-negative and neutral scenes was tested in early-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and healthy younger, middle-aged and older adults. In the study phase, participants rated the scenes for their arousal properties. In the test phase, studied and novel scenes were initially presented subliminally, and the exposure duration was gradually increased until a valence categorization was made. The difference in exposure duration required to categorize novel versus studied items was the dependent measure of priming. Aversive content increased the magnitude of priming, an effect that was preserved in healthy aging and AD. Results from an immediate recognition memory test showed that the priming effects could not be attributable to enhanced explicit memory for the aversive scenes. These findings implicate a dissociation between the modulatory effect of emotion across implicit and explicit forms of memory in aging and early-stage AD.
In a previous fMRI study on right-handers (Rhrs), we reported that part of the left ventral premotor cortex (BA6) was activated when alphabetical characters were passively observed and that the same region was also involved in handwriting [Longcamp, M., Anton, J. L., Roth, M., &amp; Velay, J. L. (2003). Visual presentation of single letters activates a premotor area involved in writing. NeuroImage, 19, 1492-1500]. We therefore suggested that letter-viewing may induce automatic involvement of handwriting movements. In the present study, in order to confirm this hypothesis, we carried out a similar fMRI experiment on a group of left-handed subjects (Lhrs). We reasoned that if the above assumption was correct, visual perception of letters by Lhrs might automatically activate cortical motor areas coding for left-handed writing movements, i.e., areas located in the right hemisphere. The visual stimuli used here were either single letters, single pseudoletters, or a control stimulus. The subjects were asked to watch these stimuli attentively, and no response was required. The results showed that a ventral premotor cortical area (BA6) in the right hemisphere was specifically activated when Lhrs looked at letters and not at pseudoletters. This right area was symmetrically located with respect to the left one activated under the same circumstances in Rhrs. This finding supports the hypothesis that visual perception of written language evokes covert motor processes. In addition, a bilateral area, also located in the premotor cortex (BA6), but more ventrally and medially, was found to be activated in response to both letters and pseudoletters. This premotor region, which was not activated correspondingly in Rhrs, might be involved in the processing of graphic stimuli, whatever their degree of familiarity.
Recollective memory can involve the retrieval of many different kinds of contextual information, including where and when an event took place, as well as our thoughts and feelings at the time. The brain regions associated with this ability were examined in an event-related fMRI experiment, where participants made decisions about words or famous faces which were presented either on the left or right of a monitor screen. Subsequently, the studied words and faces were again presented and participants underwent fMRI brain scanning while recollecting either which of the decisions they had made on each item (&quot;task memory&quot;), or whether it had been presented on the left or right of the screen (&quot;position memory&quot;). A functional dissociation was observed within anterior prefrontal cortex (principally Brodmann's area 10), with activation in lateral regions associated with remembering either type of information (relative to baseline), and a medial anterior PFC region showing significantly greater activation during the &quot;task memory&quot; conditions. These results suggest different roles for lateral and medial anterior prefrontal cortex in recollection.
We have explored the level of interaction between the putative visuoperceptual (VP) and visuomotor (VM) processing streams within each cerebral hemisphere. Six patients with unilateral brain lesions and 26 intact-brain participants were tested. We presented three-dimensional versions of the Mueller-Lyer illusion separately to the left and to the right hemifields of each participant. In one condition, the participant grasped the central shaft of the illusion object between the thumb and forefinger (visuomotor task). In the other, the participant estimated the size of the shaft using the same fingers (visuoperceptual task). We calculated the magnitude of the illusion in each task for each hemifield. Intact-brain participants had a significantly larger illusion in estimation than in grasping in both hemifields. The two patients with right-hemisphere damage showed a large dissociation between grasping and estimation illusions, whereas the four patients with left-hemisphere damage showed no detectable dissociation. These results are consistent with the idea that the visuomotor and visuoperceptual streams are more dissociated in the left hemisphere than in the right.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI), defined as episodic memory impairment beyond what is expected in normal aging, is often associated with hippocampal atrophy (HA) and may represent incipient Alzheimer's disease. However, recent studies suggest that MCI is very heterogeneous and multiple etiologies likely exist. One possibility is small vessel cerebrovascular disease (CVD). Specifically, we hypothesized that white matter hyperintensities (WMH), an MRI marker for CVD, would lead to impairments in executive control processes critical for working memory that may, in turn, result in episodic memory impairment. To test this hypothesis, we examined a group of subjects clinically diagnosed with MCI and used MRI to further subcategorize individuals as either MCI with severe white matter hyperintensities (MCI-WMH) or MCI with severe hippocampal atrophy (MCI-HA). MCI-WMH, MCI-HA, and matched control subjects each performed a battery of working memory and episodic memory tasks. Results showed that MCI-HA and MCI-WMH were equally impaired on the episodic memory task relative to controls, but MCI-WMH were additionally impaired on tests tapping verbal and spatial working memory abilities and attentional control processes. These results suggest that CVD and hippocampal dysfunction are associated with distinct neuropsychological profiles. Although both syndromes are associated with episodic memory deficits, CVD is additionally associated with working memory and executive control deficits.
Since the original description of Gerstmann's syndrome with its four cardinal symptoms, among which are finger agnosia and acalculia, the neuro-cognitive relationship between fingers and calculation has been debated. We asked our participants to perform four different tasks, two of which involved fingers and the other two involving numbers, during repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the posterior parietal lobe of either hemisphere. In the finger tasks, they were required to transform a tactile stimulus randomly delivered on one of their fingers into a speeded key-press response either with the same or with the homologous finger on the opposite hand. In the numerical tasks, they were asked to perform a magnitude or a parity matching on pairs of single digits, in the context of arithmetically related or unrelated numerical primes. In accordance with the original anatomical hypothesis put forward by Gerstmann [Gerstmann, J. (1924). Fingeragnosie: eine umschriebene Stoerung der Orienterung am eigenen Koerper. Wiener clinische Wochenschrift, 37, 1010-12], we found that rTMS over the left angular gyrus disrupted tasks requiring access to the finger schema and number magnitude processing in the same group of participants. In addition to the numerous studies which have employed special populations such as neurological patients and children, our data confirm the presence of a relationship between numbers and body knowledge in skilled adults who no longer use their fingers for solving simple arithmetical tasks.
Previously, in a simple probability-matching experiment with two split-brain patients that involved having the participant predict which of two events will happen on the next trial, we found that the left hemisphere tended to look for patterns and match the frequency of previous occurrences but not the right hemisphere [Wolford, G., Miller, M. B., &amp; Gazzaniga, M. S. (2000). The left hemisphere's role in hypothesis formation. Journal of Neuroscience, 20(RC64), 1-4]. In this study, we examined those findings in normal subjects using fMRI. Subjects alternated between blocks of trials in which they predicted the location of a stimulus and those in which they detected the location of a stimulus. Previous investigators using similar paradigms reported mostly right hemisphere activations, including activations in the right dorsolateral and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, the medial prefrontal cortex, and the right lateral parietal lobe. We also found mostly right hemisphere activations, but we found that some of the activations in the dorsolateral prefrontal and parietal cortices were sensitive to individual differences in the tendency to look for patterns in random sequences. Further, we found that, by controlling for the working memory component of the predicting task, all brain activations in the normal brain associated with looking for patterns were related to the task demands of working memory processes underlying probability matching and predicting.
Functional cerebral asymmetries (FCAs) are known to fluctuate across the menstrual cycle. The mechanisms of these sex hormonal modulations are poorly understood. It has been suggested that gonadal steroid hormones might suppress or specifically activate one hemisphere. However, recent studies suggest that high levels of gonadal steroid hormones reduce FCAs by its modulating effects on cortico-cortical transmission. To investigate the activating effects of gonadal steroid hormones on the interhemispheric interaction, a visual line-bisection task was administered to normally cycling women during menses and the midluteal cycle phase as well as to similar-aged healthy men. The results replicate previous findings of a sex difference in line-bisection as a function of hand-use and show that the hand-use effect fluctuates across the menstrual cycle. High levels of estradiol during the midluteal phase were related to a decrease of the hand-use effect. It is concluded that cycle-related fluctuations in levels of gonadal steroid hormones affect hemispheric asymmetry of spatial attention, presumably by interhemispheric spreading of neuronal activation.
We investigated the ability of subjects to shift dynamically between selective task sets, using informative trial-by-trial cues. Two tasks were used which involved non-overlapping neural systems and different hemispheric specialization. In a verbal task, subjects decided whether a letter string was a real word or a non-word. In a spatial task, subjects decided whether an angle was acute or obtuse. A behavioural experiment showed that performance improved when cues predicted the upcoming task (80% validity), compared to when neutral cues did not afford selective task sets. Event-related potentials (ERPs) revealed brain activity related to forming selective task expectations, to switching tasks, and to the modulation of target processing as a function of such expectations and switches. Activity predicting the probable task started over parietal electrodes 160 ms after cue presentation, while activity related to task switching started at frontal electrodes around 280 ms. Both types of activities developed before target onset. Target processing was significantly influenced by the validity of the cue prediction, including strong modulation of language-related potentials. These results show that it is possible to switch dynamically between task sets involving distinct neural systems, even before the appearance of an imperative target stimulus, and that the nature of the task sets can influence neural activity related to task-set reconfiguration. Selective task sets can in turn modulate the processing of target stimuli. The effects also apply to the case of foveally presented words, whose processing has often been hypothesized to be automatic and outside the influence of selective attention.
Humans are able to selectively attend to specific regions of space without moving their eyes. However, there is mounting evidence that these covert shifts of attention may employ many of the same brain regions involved when executing the eye movements. For example, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies show that the oculomotor region known as the frontal eye fields (FEF) are activated by the covert shifts of attention. However, it remains possible that the activations seen in these studies result from actively inhibiting eye movements rather than as a direct result of modulating perceptual processing. Here we provide direct evidence for the role of this region in endogenously driven spatial attention. We show that briefly disrupting the left FEFs with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) eliminated the slow response times associated with the invalid strategic cues when the target appeared in the right visual field. At first glance, our findings appear incompatible with the results reported by Grosbras and Paus (Grosbras, M. -H., &amp; Paus, T. (2002). Transcranial magnetic stimulation of the human frontal eye field: effects on visual perception and attention. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 14(7), 1109--1120) and we suggest this is likely due to the design differences. Specifically, we disrupted the FEF at the time of cue onset, rather than target onset. Taken together with the findings of Grosbras and Paus, our findings suggest that the FEF plays an early role in the inhibition of perceptual information. Furthermore, our findings complement work by Ro et al. (Ro, T., Farne, F., &amp; Chang, E. (2003). Inhibition of return and the frontal eye fields. Experimental Brain Research, 150, 290--296) who report that stimulation of the frontal eye fields disrupts the inhibitory consequences of reflexive attention shifts.
Many studies have suggested that the intraparietal sulcus (IPS), particularly in the dominant hemisphere, is crucially involved in numerical comparisons. However, this parietal structure has been found to be involved in other tasks that require spatial processing or visuospatial attention as well. fMRI was used to investigate three different magnitude comparisons in an event-related-block design: (a) Which digit is larger in numerical value (e.g., 2 or 5)? (b) Which digit is brighter (e.g., 3 or 3)? (c) Which digit is physically larger (e.g., 3 or 3)? Results indicate a widespread cortical network including a bilateral activation of the intraparietal sulci for all different comparisons. However, by computing contrasts of brain activation between the respective comparison conditions and applying a cortical distance effect as an additional criterion, number-specific activation was revealed in left IPS and right temporal regions. These results indicate that there are both commonalities and differences in the spatial layout of the brain systems for numerical and physical comparisons and that especially the left IPS, while involved in magnitude comparison in general, plays a special role in number comparison.
In adult patients who suffer from a visual field defect due to cerebral lesions, visual functions can be restored by systematic visual field training. Such visual field training is not feasible in young, brain-damaged children, who are unable to cooperate like adults. We have already shown earlier [Werth, R., and Moehrenschlager, M. (1999). The development of visual functions in cerebrally blind children during a systematic visual field training. Restorative Neurology and Neuroscience, 15, 229-241.] that systematic visual field training, which requires no ability to understand instructions or to cooperate, is successful in brain-damaged children and may lead to complete recovery of the visual field within 3 months. The present study provides more behavioral evidence and a control of intraocular light scatter. In addition to the earlier study, the luminance difference thresholds in the recovered visual field were compared with those of a normal control group. Seventeen children aged 1-4 years who had been blind for more than 1 year after perinatal asphyxia and two children suffering from homonymous hemianopia due to asphyxic-ischemic lesions participated in systematic visual field training. The functional visual field was assessed with a specially designed arc perimeter. Visual functions developed within a training period of 3 months in 11 children who received visual field training, whereas there was no recovery in the control group (N=37). The findings support the assumption that systematic visual field training facilitates the development of vision in cerebrally blind children. In two children who recovered from blindness, it was shown in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) that brain tissue in the area of the visual cortex contralateral to the blind visual hemifield was activated by light. In two children suffering from asphyxic-ischemic lesions who did not recover only brain tissue in the area of the visual cortex contralateral to the good visual hemifield could be activated by light. These results support the assumption that activity in spared tissue of the striate and extrastriate visual cortex are a necessary condition for recovery of the visual field in children suffering from cerebral blindness.
Impaired future thinking may be a core aspect of impulsive decision making. Recent efforts to understand the brain processes that underlie impulsivity have suggested a role for the frontal lobes. However, future thinking is unlikely to be a unitary process, and the frontal lobes are not a homogeneous entity. The present study contrasted the effects of dorsolateral and ventromedial frontal lobe damage on two distinct aspects of future thinking in humans. Temporal discounting, the subjective devaluation of reward as a function of delay, is not affected by frontal lobe injury. In contrast, a normal future time perspective (a measure of the length of an individual's self-defined future) depends on the ventromedial, but not dorsolateral, frontal lobes. Furthermore, investigation of the relationship of these two measures with classical symptoms of frontal lobe damage indicates that future time perspective correlates with apathy, not impulsivity. Apathy may deserve more attention in understanding both impaired future thinking and the impaired decision making that may result.
The prefrontal region of the brain, including the ventromedial sector which supports reasoning and decision-making, may undergo disproportionate aging in some older persons, but the empirical evidence is decidedly mixed. To help resolve this, we tested 80 neurologically and psychiatrically healthy Younger (aged 26-55) and Older (aged 56-85) adults on a &quot;Gambling Task&quot;, which provides a close analog to real-world decision-making by factoring in reward, punishment, and unpredictability, yielding a sensitive index of ventromedial prefrontal function. A subset of the Older group manifested a decision-making impairment on the Gambling Task, in spite of otherwise intact cognitive functioning. This finding raises the possibility of disproportionate aging of the ventromedial prefrontal cortex in these individuals. Our finding has important societal and public policy implications (e.g., choosing medical care, allocating personal wealth), and may also help explain why many older individuals are targeted by and susceptible to fraudulent advertising.
In contrast to their slowed limb movements, individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) produce rapid automatic eye movements to sensory stimuli and show an impaired ability to generate voluntary eye movements in cognitive tasks. Eighteen PD patients and 18 matched control volunteers were instructed to look either toward (pro-saccade) or away from (anti-saccade) a peripheral stimulus as soon as it appeared (immediate, gap and overlap conditions) or after a variable delay; or, they made sequential saccades to remembered targets after a variable delay. We found that PD patients made more express saccades (correct saccades in the latency range of 90-140 ms) in the immediate pro-saccade task, more direction errors (automatic pro-saccades) in the immediate anti-saccade task, and were less able to inhibit saccades during the delay period in all delay tasks. PD patients also made more directional and end-point errors in the memory-guided sequential task. Their inability to plan eye movements to remembered target locations suggests that PD patients have a deficit in spatial working memory which, along with their deficit in automatic saccade suppression, is consistent with a disorder of the prefrontal-basal ganglia circuit. Impairment of this pathway may release the automatic saccade system from top-down inhibition and produce deficits in volitional saccade control. Parallel findings across various motor, cognitive and oculomotor tasks suggest a common mechanism underlying a general deficit in automatic response suppression.
Recent evidence suggests that areas in and around the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) represent magnitude in a stimulus-independent format. However, it has not been established whether the same is true for mental arithmetic or whether activation for higher level numerical processing diverges as a function of stimulus format. We addressed this question in a functional imaging study by presenting participants with simple addition problems using both symbolic (Arabic numerals) and non-symbolic (arrays of dots) stimuli. Conjunction analysis revealed common neural substrates for symbolic and non-symbolic addition in the anterior IPS bilaterally, left posterior IPS, medial frontal gyrus and left precentral gyrus. Right parietal and frontal cortex showed greater activation for non-symbolic addition. Our results demonstrate that mental arithmetic, studied using addition problems, is processed within the IPS independent of stimulus form. Additionally we examined whether exact and approximate addition conditions activated different neural substrates as a function of stimulus format. We did not find any differences between exact and approximate addition using symbolic and non-symbolic stimuli. This could be due to the inability of the participants to suppress exact calculation for single-digit addition problems. In contrast to recent findings, we found no significant activation for exact addition condition in left, language-related areas.
Previous neuroimaging studies examining recognition of famous faces have identified activation of an extensive bilateral neural network [Gorno Tempini, M. L., Price, C. J., Josephs, O., Vandenberghe, R., Cappa, S. F., Kapur, N. et al. (1998). The neural systems sustaining face and proper-name processing. Brain, 121, 2103-2118], including the medial temporal lobe (MTL) and specifically the hippocampal complex [Haist, F., Bowden, G. J., &amp; Mao, H. (2001). Consolidation of human memory over decades revealed by functional magnetic resonance imaging. Nature Neuroscience, 4, 1139-1145; Leveroni, C. L., Seidenberg, M., Mayer, A. R., Mead, L. A., Binder, J. R., &amp; Rao, S. M. (2000). Neural systems underlying the recognition of familiar and newly learned faces. Journal of Neuroscience, 20, 878-886]. One model of hippocampal functioning in autobiographical, episodic memory retrieval argues that the hippocampal complex remains active in retrieval tasks regardless of time or age of memory (multiple trace theory, MTT), whereas another proposal posits that the hippocampal complex plays a time-limited role in retrieval of autobiographical memories. The current event-related fMRI study focused on the medial temporal lobe and its response to recognition judgments of famous names from two distinct time epochs (1990s and 1950s) in 15 right-handed healthy older adults (mean age=70 years). A pilot study with an independent sample of young and older subjects ensured that the stimuli were representative of a recent and remote time period. Increased MR signal activity was observed on a bilateral basis for both the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus (PHG) during recognition of familiar names from both the recent and remote time periods when compared to non-famous names. However, the impulse response functions in the right hippocampus and right PHG demonstrated a differential response to stimuli from different time epochs, with the 1990s names showing the greatest MR signal intensity change, followed by the 1950s names, followed by foils. The finding that recognition of famous names produced significant bilateral MTL activation regardless of time epoch relative to foils provides support for the MTT model. However, the finding of a temporal gradient in the right MTL also provides support for the HC model, given the greater MTL response associated with recently famous names relative to remotely famous names.
Many lesion experiments have provided evidence that the hippocampus plays a time-limited role in memory, consistent with the operation of a systems-level memory consolidation process during which lasting neocortical memory traces become established [see Squire, L. R., Clark, R. E., &amp; Knowlton, B. J. (2001). Retrograde amnesia. Hippocampus 11, 50]. However, large lesions of the hippocampus at different time intervals after acquisition of a watermaze spatial reference memory task have consistently resulted in temporally ungraded retrograde amnesia [Bolhuis, J. J., Stewart, C. A., Forrest, E. M. (1994). Retrograde amnesia and memory reactivation in rats with ibotenate lesions to the hippocampus or subiculum. Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology 47B, 129; Mumby, D. G., Astur, R. S., Weisend, M. P., Sutherland, R. J. (1999). Retrograde amnesia and selective damage to the hippocampal formation: memory for places and object discriminations. Behavioural Brain Research 106, 97; Sutherland, R. J., Weisend, M. P., Mumby, D., Astur, R. S., Hanlon, F. M., et al. (2001). Retrograde amnesia after hippocampal damage: recent vs. remote memories in two tasks. Hippocampus 11, 27]. It is possible that spatial memories acquired during such a task remain permanently dependent on the hippocampus, that chance performance may reflect a failure to access memory traces that are initially unexpressed but still present, or that graded retrograde amnesia for spatial information might only be observed following partial hippocampal lesions. This study examined the retrograde memory impairments of rats that received either partial or complete lesions of the hippocampus either 1-2 days, or 6 weeks after training in a watermaze reference memory task. Memory retention was assessed using a novel 'reminding' procedure consisting of a series of rewarded probe trials, allowing the measurement of both free recall and memory reactivation. Rats with complete hippocampal lesions exhibited stable, temporally ungraded retrograde amnesia, and could not be reminded of the correct location. Partially lesioned rats could be reminded of a recently learned platform location, but no recovery of remote memory was observed. These results offer no support for hippocampus-dependent consolidation of allocentric spatial information, and suggest that the hippocampus can play a long-lasting role in spatial memory. The nature of this role--in the storage, retrieval, or expression of memory--is discussed.
Selectively listening to a single location in space modulates both the behavioral and electrophysiological responses to auditory stimuli presented at that location. Transient attention oriented in cue-target or target-target paradigms results in several modulations of the auditory event-related potential known as the Nd1, Nd2, and Nd3. By employing electrical source analysis we tested the hypothesis that the earliest component (the Nd1) reflects modulation of neurons in parietal rather than auditory cortex. It was found that the most likely sources of the Nd1 modulation were posterior to primary auditory cortex within or near the temporo-parietal junction (TPJ). This location is within the putative auditory &quot;where&quot; pathway.
We analyze how data on the mirror system for grasping in macaque and human ground the mirror system hypothesis for the evolution of the language-ready human brain, and then focus on this putative relation between hand movements and speech to contribute to the understanding of how it may be that a schizophrenic patient generates an action (whether manual or verbal) but does not attribute the generation of that action to himself. We make a crucial discussion between self-monitoring and attribution of agency. We suggest that verbal hallucinations occur when an utterance progresses through verbal creation pathways and returns as a vocalization observed, only to be dismissed as external since no record of its being created has been kept. Schizophrenic patients on this theory then confabulate the agent.
It has been proposed that actions are intrinsically linked to perception. The idea behind these theories is that observing, imagining or in any way representing an action excites the motor programs used to execute that same action. There is neurophysiological evidence that neurons in premotor cortex of monkeys respond both during movement execution and during the observation of goal-directed action ('mirror neurons'). In humans, a proportion of the brain regions involved in executing actions are activated by the mere observation of action (the 'mirror system'). In this paper, we briefly review recent empirical studies of the mirror system, and discuss studies demonstrating interference effects between observed and executed movements. This interference, which might be a form of 'motor contagion', seems to arise specifically from the observation of biological movements, whether or not these movements are goal-directed. We suggest that this crude motor contagion is the first step in a more sophisticated predictive system that allows us to infer goals from the observation of actions.
It has been proposed that behavior is influenced by representations of different types of knowledge: action representations, event knowledge, attitudes and stereotypes. Attitudes (representations of a concept or object and its emotional evaluation) allow us to respond quickly to a given stimulus. In this study, we explored the representation and inhibition of attitudes. We show that right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex mediates negative attitudes whereas left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex mediates positive attitudes. Parahippocampal regions and amygdala mediate evaluative processing. Furthermore, anxiety modulates right dorsolateral prefrontal activation during negative attitude processing. Inhibition of negative attitudes activates left orbitofrontal cortex: a region that when damaged is associated with socially inappropriate behavior in patients. Inhibition of positive attitudes activates a brain system involving right inferior frontal gyrus and bilateral anterior cingulate. Thus, we show that there are dissociable networks for the representation and inhibition of attitudes.
The control of action has traditionally been described as &quot;automatic&quot;. In particular, movement control may occur without conscious awareness, in contrast to normal visual perception. Studies on rapid visuomotor adjustment of reaching movements following a target shift have played a large part in introducing such distinctions. We suggest that previous studies of the relation between motor performance and perceptual awareness have confounded two separate dissociations. These are: (a) the distinction between motoric and perceptual representations, and (b) an orthogonal distinction between conscious and unconscious processes. To articulate these differences more clearly, we propose a new measure of motor awareness, based on subjects' ability to reproduce the spatial details of reaching movements they have just made. Here we focus on the dissociation between motor awareness and perceptual awareness that may occur when subjects make rapid visuomotor adjustments to reaching movements following a target shift. In experiment 1, motor awareness was dissociated from perceptual awareness of a target shift during reaching movement. Participants' reproduction of movement endpoints following visuomotor adjustment was independent of whether they saw the target shift or not. Experiment 2 replicated this result, and further showed that neither motor awareness nor motor performance were disrupted by TMS over the parietal cortex. The neural mechanisms underlying motor awareness, and the implications for theories of consciousness, are discussed.
Milner and Goodale described a model which distinguishes between two visual streams in the brain. It is claimed that the ventral stream serves object recognition (i.e. vision for perception), and the dorsal streams provides visual information for the guidance of action (i.e. vision for action). This model is supported by evidence from the domain of spatial vision, but it remains unclear how motion vision fits into that model. More specifically, it is unclear how the motion complex V5/MT contributes to vision for perception and vision for action. We addressed this question in an earlier study with the V5-lesioned patient LM. Can a motion-blind patient reach for moving objects? We found that she is not only impaired in perceptual tasks but also in catching, suggesting a role for V5/MT+ in vision for both perception and action. However, LM's lesion goes beyond V5/MT+ into more dorsal regions. It is thus possible, that the catching deficit was not produced by damage to V5/MT+ itself. In this case, one would expect that selective interference with V5/MT+ would have no effect on catching. In the present study we tested this prediction by applying rTMS over V5/MT+ of the left hemisphere while healthy subjects were either performing a catching or a reaching task. We found that V5-TMS reduced the speed of the catching but not the reaching response. These results confirm that V5/MT+ is not only involved in perceptual but also in visuomotor tasks.
The visually guided reaching of two patients with bilateral optic ataxia was explored in two experiments. In Experiment 1 simple delayed pointing was compared with immediate pointing. In the immediate pointing task both variable and constant errors increased with target eccentricity. In contrast to the performance of control subjects and contrary to their own beliefs, the patients both showed improved accuracy in the delay condition. This improvement was manifest as a reduction in both pointing variability and in the constant angular error towards the point of fixation. Both angular errors and their improvement with the delay were proportional to target eccentricity. Experiment 2 used a task in which the target was pre-viewed 5s prior to its re-exposure for pointing ('delayed real pointing'). On some trials a conflict was introduced between the present and previous visual information by changing the target's location during the delay. In contrast to control subjects, who ignored the pre-viewed location and aimed directly at the current target, both patients with optic ataxia initiated their movements towards the previously viewed target location. Evidently they relied on off-line information in preference to on-line visual information. In addition, the patients often failed to detect the changes in target location. One of the patients sometimes even guessed incorrectly that the target had changed its location, and her movement trajectory was then more affected by her false belief than by the target's actual location. These findings confirm that posterior parietal lesions severely disrupt direct visuomotor transformations, and suggest that the residual performance is mediated indirectly by expectations or beliefs about target position.
The interhemispheric deficit theory of dyslexia postulates that reading difficulties can arise from abnormal communication/collaboration between the cerebral hemispheres. A currently popular way to gather information about interhemispheric processing and integration is with the redundant stimuli task, where participants respond to stimuli presented to the left visual field, right visual field, or both visual fields simultaneously. In neurologically normal individuals, response times to bilateral simple stimulus presentations are faster than response times to a single stimulus in either visual field alone (referred to as redundancy gain). In contrast, individuals with no corpus callosum exhibit greater redundancy gains than would be expected by probability summation. In the present study, 11 children with phonological dyslexia showed a similar &quot;over violation&quot; of the probability (race) model when responding with the left but not the right hand. This asymmetry was not found in age- and IQ-matched control children. The results are at least partially consistent with the notion of phonological dyslexia involving deficits in the transfer of information across the corpus callosum.
Patients that were hemispherectomized due to brain lesions early in life sometimes have remarkably well-preserved tactile functions on their paretic body half. This has been attributed to developmental neuroplasticity. However, the tactile examinations generally have been fairly crude, and subtle deficits may not have been revealed. We investigated monofilament detection and three types of tactile directional sensibility in four hemispherectomized patients and six healthy controls. Patients were examined bilaterally on the face, forearm and lower leg. Normal subjects were examined unilaterally. Following each test of directional sensibility, subjects were asked to rate the intensity of the stimulation. On the nonparetic side, results were almost always in the normal range. On the paretic side, the patients' capacity for monofilament detection was less impaired than their directional sensibility. Despite the disturbed directional sensibility on their paretic side the patients rated tactile sensations evoked by the stimuli, on both their paretic and nonparetic body halves, as more intense than normals. Thus, mechanisms of plasticity seem adequate for tactile detection and intensity coding but not for more complex tactile functions such as directional sensibility. The reason for the high vulnerability of tactile directional sensibility may be that it depends on spatially and temporally precise afferent information processed in a distributed cortical network.
Recent neuropsychological investigations of apraxia have led to new hypotheses about the representational defects associated with imitation impairments in neurological patients. This fMRI experiment investigated the relation between imitation and the body schema in healthy subjects. Experimental conditions were derived from a factorial plan, and participants were asked to watch a human model performing bodily gestures and then to execute either an identical or a different action, with the same or different limbs. Brain areas activated when subjects imitated the model were traced to the representation of the action (main effect of performing an identical action regardless of limb), to the body schema (using the same limb regardless of action), or to both. The first set of analyses yielded a network associated with visual perception, indicating that action representation is primarily visuospatial not motor, while the second analysis highlighted regions involved in body schema including the inferior parietal cortex and the insula. It is suggested that imitation of simple body gestures requires both a visuospatial description of the observed model, sustained by visual perception areas in the right occipitotemporal and superior parietal cortices and a visuospatial description of one's own body, supported by the left inferior parietal lobule. These results favor a model of praxis proposing that imitation deficits in left inferior parietal lobe patients with apraxia reflect primarily an impairment of the body schema, while deficits of praxis in right parietal patients are limited to gestures demanding in terms of visuospatial analysis.
This study examined the relation of dual-task performance to individual differences on neuropsychological tests. Neuropsychological test scores from 16 young and 16 older participants were simultaneously submitted to a factor analysis that yielded 2 factors (Attention/Executive and Memory) that differed by age and 2 (Motor Speed and Cognitive Status) that did not. Regression analyses revealed that these factors were significant predictors of performance on a delayed visual recognition task, but the relationship varied as a function of task condition. The Memory and Motor Speed factors were the strongest predictors of single-task performance, but the Attention/Executive factor was the most important predictor of dual-task performance. The authors conclude that compromised central executive may underlie age-related decline in dual-task performance.
Psychoactive drug self-administration (SA) produces different neurobiological effects than passive administration (PA) in non-human animals; however, such consequences have never been examined in human drug abusers. The present study compared electroencephalographic (EEG) activation produced by intravenous PA and SA of the mu-opioid fentanyl in eight heroin-dependent, methadone-stabilized male participants. In phase 1, participants received cumulative PA of fentanyl (up to 1.5 mg/70 kg; session 1), then bolus PA of placebo and fentanyl 1.5 mg/70 kg (session 2). High-dose fentanyl significantly increased the amplitude of slow-frequency (delta- and theta-band) EEG activity. In phase 2, bolus fentanyl 1.5 mg/70 kg was available for SA, requiring the participant to complete 1500 responses, in each of two sessions after saline or naloxone pretreatment. Delta EEG peak amplitude increases were greater following fentanyl SA than fentanyl PA, primarily over the central midline region, and were attenuated by naloxone pretreatment. The EEG increase and its attenuation by naloxone agree with preclinical evidence and suggest that SA-related EEG responses were mediated by opioid receptors.
Serotonin 5-HT2A receptor (5-HT2A) binding is reported to be altered in individuals with suicidal behavior, mood disorders, and aggressive-impulsive traits. Genetic association with major depression, suicidal behavior, and aggressive-impulsive traits has not been established. This study examines the possible association of the 5-HT2A gene C102T polymorphism with the receptor binding kinetics, and clinical overt phenotypes. The study population included 63 healthy volunteers and 152 subjects with mood disorders, 56 of whom had a history of suicide attempts. All were Caucasian. Platelet 5-HT2A binding kinetics (Bmax and KD) were assayed and adjusted for seasonal variation. All subjects were genotyped for the T102C polymorphism. Clinical phenotype was determined by structured clinical interview. The TT genotype was associated with higher Bmax in all subjects (F=3.53, df=2,211; p=0.03), controlling for diagnosis. Bonferroni-adjusted post hoc testing showed higher binding in the TT compared with TC genotype in the control group (F=7.56, df=2,60, p=0.001), but not in the mood-disordered subjects. No difference was found in genotype and allele distribution between the mood-disordered subjects, with and without suicide attempt history, and controls. Bmax was not related to a diagnosis of mood disorders. The TT genotype appears associated with higher platelet 5-HT2A Bmax in the healthy population, but this genotypic effect appears absent in mood disorders and unrelated to psychopathology.
Neurobehavioral problems after lightning and electrical injuries are diverse. Commonly reported are decreased cognitive function, pain syndromes, depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, and significant alterations in social and work roles. While the problems resemble those following other kinds of accidents, the injury scenarios for lightning and electrical trauma are unique, and seem to invite more skepticism and controversy in medical and legal realms when the survivors seek help. Studies of lightning and electrical injuries have identified disabling neuropsychiatric changes for some survivors, often persistent and occasionally progressive, that appear weakly related to litigation status, inconsistently related to injury scenarios, and likely influenced by individual premorbid emotional and coping patterns. Standards of care in the fields of brain injury, behavioral medicine, and psychotherapy can inform rehabilitation strategies. Proper assessment is important, as well as an individualized approach to treatment. Multidisciplinary intervention focuses on managing symptoms, learning compensatory skills, providing psychosocial support, and preventing maladaptive behaviors. It has been therapeutic for some patients to become activists for better awareness and prevention.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is formed by the brain capillary endothelium and excludes from the brain approximately 100% of large-molecule neurotherapeutics and more than 98% of all small-molecule drugs. Despite the importance of the BBB to the neurotherapeutics mission, the BBB receives insufficient attention in either academic neuroscience or industry programs. The combination of so little effort in developing solutions to the BBB problem, and the minimal BBB transport of the majority of all potential CNS drugs, leads predictably to the present situation in neurotherapeutics, which is that there are few effective treatments for the majority of CNS disorders. This situation can be reversed by an accelerated effort to develop a knowledge base in the fundamental transport properties of the BBB, and the molecular and cellular biology of the brain capillary endothelium. This provides the platform for CNS drug delivery programs, which should be developed in parallel with traditional CNS drug discovery efforts in the molecular neurosciences.
One of the most enduring and controversial questions in the neuroscience of sexual behaviour surrounds the mechanisms which produce sexual attraction to either males or females. Here, evidence is reviewed which supports the proposal that sexual orientation in humans may be laid down in neural circuitry during early foetal development. Behaviour genetic investigations provide strong evidence for a heritable component to male and female sexual orientation. Linkage studies are partly suggestive of X-linked loci although candidate gene studies have produced null findings. Further evidence demonstrates a role for prenatal sex hormones which may influence the development of a putative network of sexual-orientation-related neural substrates. However, hormonal effects are often inconsistent and investigations rely heavily on 'proxy markers'. A consistent fraternal birth order effect in male sexual orientation also provides support for a model of maternal immunization processes affecting prenatal sexual differentiation. The notion that non-heterosexual preferences may reflect generalized neurodevelopmental perturbations is not supported by available data. These current theories have left little room for learning models of sexual orientation. Future investigations, across the neurosciences, should focus to elucidate the fundamental neural architecture underlying the target-specific direction of human sexual orientation, and their antecedents in developmental neurobiology.
One of the main interests in the field of neuroscience is the investigation of the neural basis of fear. During recent years, an increasing number of studies have used trimethylthiazoline (TMT), a component of red fox feces, as a stimulus to induce fear in predator naive rats, mice, and voles. The aim of the present review is to summarize these studies. We present an overview to the autonomic and behavioral changes that are induced by TMT exposure. Then, we summarize the small number of studies that have examined the neural processing of the TMT stimulus. Finally, we compare these studies with those using a natural predator or predator odor to induce fear and discuss the possible use of TMT exposure in rodents as an animal model of unconditioned fear in humans.
Childhood trauma is known to increase risk for emotional disorders and addiction. However, little is currently understood about the neurodevelopmental basis of these effects, or how genetic and epigenetic factors interact with the environment to shape the systems subserving emotionality. In this review, we discuss the use of rodent models of early life emotional experience to study these issues in the laboratory and present some of our pertinent findings. In rats, postnatal maternal separation can produce lasting increases in emotional behavior and stressor-reactivity, together with alterations in various brain neurotransmitter systems implicated in emotionality, including corticotropin-releasing factor, serotonin, norepinephrine, and glutamate. Genetic differences between inbred mouse strains have been exploited to further study how maternal behavior affects emotional development using techniques such as cross-fostering and generation of inter-strain hybrids. Together with our own recent data, the findings of these studies demonstrate the pervasive influence of maternal and social environments during sensitive developmental periods and reveal how genetic factors determine how these early life experiences can shape brain and behavior throughout life.
Alarm calls were induced in adult Wistar rats by an air puff. Emitted calls were digitized and directly recorded on a computer hard drive. The long-duration 22-kHz calls were emitted almost exclusively in series. Initial calls in the series tended to have the longest durations, higher frequency range, and the highest degree of frequency modulation, as compared to other calls. The frequency modulation always appeared as a downward sweep and seemed to represent a tuning of individual calls to a 3 kHz communicatory band. Regardless of the maximum frequency, rats always reached approximately the same minimum frequency, common to all calls. Thus, the broader was the frequency range of a given call, the longer the call duration. It is postulated, therefore, that rats emit 22-kHz calls at the minimum possible ultrasonic frequency they are able to produce, which is synonymous with peak frequency. It is further postulated that production of alarm calls in series, with long call duration and the invariably low ultrasonic frequency, maximizes successful communication in dangerous situations. Exceptions to this rule were observed immediately following air puffs, suggesting that acoustic parameters of the initial calls may differ from the alarming properties of the remaining 22-kHz calls.
It is well established that dopamine is released in the nucleus accumbens (NAC) in animals in rewarding or reinforcing situations, and widely believed that this release is the substrate of, or at least closely related to, the experience of reward. The demonstration of conditioned release of dopamine by stimuli conditioned to primary rewards has reinforced this view. However, a number of observations do not sit comfortably with this interpretation, most notably that dopamine is released equally effectively in NAC by aversive stimuli, and stimuli conditioned to them. Furthermore, additional release of dopamine is seen during conditioning, even if motivational stimuli of either type are not involved. It is suggested here that one important action of NAC dopamine release is to restore the salience of potential conditioned stimuli, when this has been reduced by prior un-reinforced experience. The paradigm of latent inhibition (LI) demonstrates a behavioural effect of this type, and extensive studies on the role of dopamine in LI have been undertaken by us and others. Those studies are reviewed here, together with some previously unpublished data, to demonstrate that (1) amphetamine disruption of LI is indeed a function of calcium-dependant dopamine release in the NAC at the time of conditioning; (2) other drugs acting on LI via changes in dopamine transmission act at the same locus; (3) the disruptive effect of indirect dopamine agonists on LI can be prevented by either D-1 selective receptor antagonists, or D-2 selective receptor antagonists. It is concluded that dopamine release in these very varied behavioural contexts (reward, punishment, conditioning, modulation of salience) must be differentiated in some way, and that this should be investigated. An alternative explanation, if they are not differentiated, would be that the release in fact does have the same functional significance in each case. We suggest that this common significance might be the broadening of attention to take in potentially conditionable stimuli, which have previously been devalued.
Numerous animal models of depression have been advanced, each having multiple attributes and some limitations. This review provides caveats concerning etiologically valid animal models of depression, focusing on characteristics of the depressive subtype being examined (e.g. typical vs atypical major depression, dysthymia, melancholia), and factors that contribute to the interindividual behavioral variability frequently evident in stressor-related behavioral paradigms. These include the stressor type (processive vs systemic stressors), and characteristics of the stressor (controllability, predictability, ambiguity, chronicity, intermittence), as well as organismic variables (genetic, age, sex), experiential variables (stressor history, early life events) and psychosocial and personality factors that moderate stressor reactivity. Finally, a model of depression is reviewed that evaluates the effects of stressors on hedonic processes, reflected by responding for rewarding brain stimulation. Anhedonia is a fundamental feature of depression, and assessment of stressor-related reductions in the rewarding value of brain stimulation, especially when coupled with other potential symptoms of depression, provides considerable face, construct and predictive validity. Stressful events markedly impact rewarding brain stimulation, and this effect varies across strains of mice differentially reactive to stressors, is modifiable by antidepressant treatments, and allows for analyses of the contribution of different brain regions to anhedonic processes. The paradigm is sensitive to several factors known to acts as moderators of stress responses, but analyses remain to be conducted with regard to several such variables.
Animal models of human disease have proven of considerable value in elucidating basic pathophysiological mechanisms and in developing novel treatments. However, modelling human mental disorders in experimental animals is fraught with difficulties. Depression models generally lack both clinical and scientific credibility and have, thus far, failed to inform treatment strategies previously acquired through serendipity. The complexity and heterogeneity of the clinical states labelled 'depression' dictate that we continue to work with a crude and uninformative taxonomy within which 'core' clinical and pathophysiological features of depression are not clearly identified. Consequently, much of the neuroscience of animal modelling is framed around physiological and neurobiological phenomena that may be of relevance to only a minority of patients. Additionally, inferring pathophysiology from apparent treatment responses overestimates the efficacy of existing treatments and tends to ignore reliable demonstrations of the 'antidepressant effects' of non-pharmacological interventions. Whilst animal modelling remains a potentially important approach towards understanding neurobiological mechanisms in depression, we need to address the poverty of reliable clinical science that should inform model development.
The term 'learned helplessness' refers to a constellation of behavioral changes that follow exposure to stressors that are not controllable by means of behavioral responses, but that fail to occur if the stressor is controllable. This paper discusses the nature of learned helplessness, as well as the role of the dorsal raphe nucleus, serotonin, and corticotropin-releasing hormone in mediating the behavioral effects of uncontrollable stressors. Recent research indicates that (a) uncontrollable stressors sensitize serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe, and that a corticotropin-releasing factor-related ligand, acting at the Type II receptor, is essential to this sensitization process, and (b) the consequent exaggerated release of serotonin in response to subsequent input is at least in part responsible for the behavioral changes that occur. Finally, implications for the general role of corticotropin-releasing hormone in stress-related phenomena and for the learned helplessness paradigm as an animal model of either depression or anxiety are discussed.
Since its introduction almost 20 years ago, the tail suspension test has become one of the most widely used models for assessing antidepressant-like activity in mice. The test is based on the fact that animals subjected to the short-term, inescapable stress of being suspended by their tail, will develop an immobile posture. Various antidepressant medications reverse the immobility and promote the occurrence of escape-related behaviour. This review focuses on the utility this test as part of a research program aimed at understanding the mechanism of action of antidepressants. We discuss the inherent difficulties in modeling depression in rodents. We describe how the tail suspension differs from the closely related forced swim test. Further, we address some key issues associated with using the TST as a model of antidepressant action. We discuss issues regarding whether it satisfies criteria to be a valid model for assessing depression-related behavioural traits. We elaborate on the tests' ease of use, strain differences observed in the test and gender effects in the test. We focus on the utility of the test for genetic analysis. Furthermore, we discuss the concept of whether immobility maybe a behavioural trait relevant to depression. All of the available pharmacological data using the test in genetically modified mice is collated. Special attention is given to selective breeding programs such as the Rouen 'depressed' mice which have been bred for high and low immobility in the tail suspension test. We provide an extensive pooling of the pharmacological studies published to date using the test. Finally, we provide novel pharmacological validation of an automated system (Bioseb) for assessing immobility. Taken together, we conclude that the tail suspension test is a useful test for assessing the behavioural effects of antidepressant compounds and other pharmacological and genetic manipulations relevant to depression.
This year sees the anniversary of Donald O. Hebb's birth, in July 1904. The impact of his work, especially through his neurophysiological postulate, as described in his magnum opus, The organization of behaviour (1949), has been profound in contemporary neuroscience. Hebb's life, and the scientific milieu in psychology and neurophysiology which preceded and informed Hebb's work are described. His core postulate, which gave rise to such eponymous expressions as the Hebbian synapse and the Hebbian learning rule, is examined in some detail, as well as the part it played in his higher-order theoretical constructs concerned with neocortical structure and function. Early models which made use of the Hebbian synapse are described, and then illustrative examples are given detailing the impact of Hebb's idea in relation to learning and memory, synaptic plasticity and stability, and the question of persistent cortical activity underlying forms of short-term memory.
Rodent models of ethanol withdrawal-induced anxiety have been used to explore the neurobiology underlying withdrawal and to evaluate the utility of therapeutic agents aimed at reducing withdrawal severity. Of the many tests of anxiety-like behavior, the elevated plus maze, light/dark box, and open field are the most commonly used. In general, ethanol withdrawal decreases most or all of the individual behaviors recorded in these tasks, indicating the occurrence of an anxiogenic-like effect of withdrawal in rodents, although these effects of withdrawal have not always been found. Potential problems with interpreting the effects of withdrawal as being indicative of an anxiety-like state include the effects of withdrawal on motivation to explore an apparatus, non-specific effects of withdrawal on locomotion, and the use of test parameters that have not been pharmacologically validated. For example, most of the published studies interpreted as having shown increased anxiety-like behavior during ethanol withdrawal have also observed concurrent decreases in locomotion. At a minimum, a given test of anxiety-like behavior during withdrawal should be responsive to the dose and duration of ethanol exposure that was used to produce physical dependence, and should not non-specifically decrease locomotion. In addition, standard anxiolytic drugs should ameliorate the anxiogenic-like effects of withdrawal, preferably in multiple tests of anxiety-like behavior.
Even though functional brain connectivity is an influential concept in modern cognitive neuroscience, it is a very controversial notion. This is why further theoretical and methodological clarification are needed to help define precisely what is meant by functional connectivity and to help frame-associated issues. In this review we present the neurophysiological concept of functional connectivity, which utilizes in a plausible manner the notion of neural assemblies, as well as local and large-scale levels of description. Here functional connectivity is the mechanism for the coordination of activity between different neural assemblies in order to achieve a complex cognitive task or perceptual process. Our theoretical and empirical findings offer new insights into possible implications of the concept of functional connectivity for cognitive neuroscience.
The existence of sex differences in the standard rat and mouse models of learning and memory is a controversial and contested topic in the literature. The present meta-analysis of radial maze and water maze experiments was conducted to assess the reliablility and magnitude of sex effects in the standard rodent models of learning and memory. Data were culled from published and unpublished sources. Findings indicate large reliable male advantages for rats in radial maze and water maze protocols. Significant strain differences were also identified. In each paradigm, protocol variations were associated with differential sex effects. For the water maze, smaller male advantages were associated with pretraining regimens and for the radial maze, larger significant male advantages were observed in protocols that included unbaited arms (combined reference and working memory protocols). Mouse studies exhibited a different pattern of sex effects; small female advantages were evident in the water maze, but small male advantages were evident in the radial maze. Together these findings establish the reliability of male advantages in spatial working and reference memory for rats across strains, protocols, ages and rearing environments. The findings also support an important species dichotomy between rats and mice that should be considered when transitioning from rat to mouse models. In light of these results, the biological evidence supporting theoretical explanations of sex differences is reviewed and evaluated.
We compared the behaviors of eight inbred mouse strains across 18 variables, using 11 behavioral assays, and gave ethanol (EtOH) as an intoxicant. Genetic influences on behavior and sensitivity to EtOH were pronounced, but strain sensitivities were generally only modestly correlated across tasks. Certain well-correlated clusters of responses suggested that some genes affect similar neurobiological substrates. No strains of mice were generally sensitive or resistant to intoxication across tasks. Anthropomorphically appealing concepts like 'muscle strength' had little explanatory power across tasks. A battery of selected tests was proposed for future studies. Overall, the results show that each mouse behavioral assay captures only a portion of ataxia, a genetically complex behavioral domain. Conversely, multiple behavioral capacities are apparently required for performance in each specific assay. Thus, if only one or two tests are used to evaluate motor function in genetically engineered mutant mice, only a small portion of the domain will be assessed and results may be misleading. This caveat likely extends to many behavioral domains (e.g. learning and memory, anxiety).

The affective and the sensory dimensions of pain processing can be differentiated in humans through the use of questionnaires and verbal communication. It is difficult to dissociate these two components of pain processing in rodents, and an understanding of the underlying mechanisms for each component is unclear. The quantification of a novel behavioral response to a repeated noxious cutaneous stimulus together with a measurement of tactile allodynia in nerve-injured rats might be used to differentially explore the sensory and affective components of pain processing in the rat. The present study utilized electrical stimulation of the anterior cingulate cortex, a structure implicated in affective pain processing but not sensory processing, in nerve-injured rats (L5 spinal nerve ligation) and found that the aversive quality of noxious cutaneous hindpaw stimulation was attenuated. There were no effects on sensory processing, because anterior cingulate cortex stimulation did not produce an anti-allodynic effect in L5 spinal nerve ligation animals. Furthermore, anterior cingulate cortex stimulation in animals with bilateral ventrolateral periaqueductal gray area lesions did not affect tactile sensitivity in L5 spinal nerve ligation rats, indicating that an endogenous pain suppression system was not likely activated by anterior cingulate cortex stimulation. However, bilateral ventrolateral periaqueductal gray area lesions in L5 spinal nerve ligation rats blocked the effect produced by anterior cingulate cortex stimulation in the place escape/avoidance paradigm. Specifically, these animals avoided noxious stimulation of the allodynic paw significantly more than anterior cingulate cortex-stimulated, sham or incomplete ventrolateral periaqueductal gray area-lesioned, L5 spinal nerve ligation animals. These findings provide the first quantified report that the activation of the anterior cingulate cortex reduced the aversive quality of repeated noxious tactile stimulation in nerve-injured animals without interfering with normal sensory processing. This effect might require the presence of an intact ventrolateral periaqueductal gray area. It is concluded that the selective manipulation of the anterior cingulate cortex has different effects on pain affect and sensory processing in a rodent model of neuropathic pain.
In the present study, unilateral cochlear ablations were performed in adult ferrets in order to determine whether an upregulation of the calretinin immunostained plexus in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus occurs and if so, what the time course of this upregulation is. Accordingly, the mean gray level and the calretinin-immunostained area of the axonal plexus in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus were evaluated at 1, 20 and 90 days after cochlear ablation. In unoperated animals, the calretinin-immunostained plexus was bilaterally symmetric. In ablated animals, both the mean gray level and the immunostained area of the plexus increased in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus contralateral to the lesion compared with both the ipsilateral side and unoperated animals. This upregulation was present 24 h after the ablation and did not change at the two subsequent time points. In a previous study in young ferrets, the immunostained area of the plexus in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus contralateral to the lesion increased 200% compared with control ferrets [J Comp Neurol 460 (2003) 585], whereas it increased only 33% in adult ferrets. These findings suggest that 1) calretinin upregulation in the contralateral central nucleus of the inferior colliculus following cochlear ablation occurs by 24 h after cochlear ablation and 2) there is an age-related decline in the magnitude of this upregulation after cochlear ablation.
The central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (CNIC) is comprised of an orderly series of fibrodendritic layers. These layers include integrative circuitry for as many as 13 different ascending auditory pathways, each tonotopically ordered. Calcium-binding proteins, such as calbindin-D28k (CB), may be useful neurochemical markers for specific subsets of afferent input in these layers and their spatial organization that are developmentally regulated. In this study, CB-immunohistochemistry was used to examine 1-42 postnatal-day-old kitten and adult cat CNIC and anterograde tracers were used to label afferent projections from the lateral superior olivary nucleus (LSO) to the CNIC at similar ages. A distinct axonal plexus that is CB-immunopositive is described. This CB-afferent compartment is present at birth and persists throughout the ages examined. Already at birth, the CB-immunostained plexus in kitten CNIC is organized into discrete bands that are approximately 75 microm thick and 500 microm long. In adult CNIC, the periodic banded pattern of CB-immunostained fibers is similar to that in kittens albeit bands are thicker (145 microm) and longer (700 microm). Growth in band thickness in adult cat appears proportional to growth of the IC, whereas length of the dense CB-immunostained bands is somewhat more focused in the central region of fibrodendritic layers. The banded pattern of the CB-immunostained plexus is well correlated with the location and dimension of afferent projections from the LSO in newborn kitten labeled with carbocyanine dye, 1,1'-dioctodecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate and in adult cat labeled with wheat germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase. The results reveal a neurochemical marker for one type of synaptic compartment in CNIC layers, banding, that is organized before hearing onset in kittens, but that may undergo some postnatal pruning.
A model of auditory thalamic organization is presented incorporating cellular laminae, oriented dendritic arbors and tectothalamic axons as a basis for the tonotopic map at this level of the central auditory system. The heart of this model is the laminar organization of neuronal somata in the ventral division of the medial geniculate body (MGV) of the rabbit, visible in routine Nissl stains. Microelectrode studies have demonstrated a step-wise ascending progression of best frequencies perpendicular to the cell layers. The dendritic arbors of MGV neurons are aligned parallel to the cellular laminae and dendritic tree width along the frequency axis corresponds closely with the frequency steps seen in microelectrode studies. In the laminated subdivision, tectothalamic axons terminate in the form of bands closely aligned with the laminae and dendritic arbors of thalamic relay neurons. The bands of tectothalamic axons extend in the anterior-posterior (A-P) plane forming a dorsal-ventral series of stacked frequency slabs. In the pars ovoidea region, the homologous spiraling of somata, dendritic fields and tectothalamic axons appear to represent a low-frequency area in this species. At least two types of tectothalamic terminals were found within the bands: large boutons frequently arranged in a glomerular pattern and smaller boutons arising from fine caliber axons. We propose that the rabbit is an ideal model to investigate the structural-functional basis of functional maps in the mammalian auditory forebrain.
Both GABA and glycine (Gly) containing neurons send inhibitory projections to the inferior colliculus (IC), whereas inhibitory neurons within the IC are primarily GABAergic. To date, however, a quantitative description of the topographic distribution of GABAergic neurons in the rat's IC and their GABAergic or glycinergic inputs is lacking. Accordingly, here we present detailed maps of GABAergic and glycinergic neurons and terminals in the rat's IC. Semithin serial sections of the IC were obtained and stained for GABA and Gly. Images of the tissue were digitized and used for a quantitative densitometric analysis of GABA immunostaining. The optical density, perimeter, and number of GABA- and Gly immunoreactive boutons apposed to the somata were measured. Data analysis included comparisons across IC subdivisions and across frequency regions within the central nucleus of the IC. The results show that: 1) 25% of the IC neurons are GABAergic; 2) there are more GABAergic neurons in the central nucleus of the IC than previously estimated; 3) GABAergic neurons are larger than non-GABAergic; 4) GABAergic neurons receive less GABA and glycine puncta than non-GABAergic; 5) differences across frequency regions are minor, except that the non-GABAergic neurons from high frequency regions are larger than their counterparts in low frequency regions; 6) differences within the laminae are greater along the dorsomedial-ventrolateral axis than along the rostrocaudal axis; 7) GABA and non-GABAergic neurons receive different numbers of puncta in different IC subdivisions; and 8) GABAergic puncta are both apposed to the somata and in the neuropil, glycinergic puncta are mostly confined to the neuropil.
Information processing in the inferior colliculus depends on interactions between ascending pathways and intrinsic circuitry, both of which exist within a functional tonotopic organization. To determine how local projections of neurons in the inferior colliculus are related to tonotopy, we placed a small iontophoretic injection of biodextran amine at a physiologically characterized location in the inferior colliculus. We then used electrophysiological recording to place a grid of small deposits of Chicago Sky Blue throughout the same frequency range to specify an isofrequency contour. Using three-dimensional computer reconstructions, we analyzed patterns of transport relative to the physiologically determined isofrequency contour to quantify the extent of the intrinsic connection lamina in all three dimensions. We also performed a quantitative analysis of the numbers of cells in different regions relative to the biodextran amine injection. Biodextran amine-labeled fibers were mainly located dorsomedial to the injection site, confined within the isofrequency contour, but biodextran amine-labeled cells were mainly located ventrolateral to the injection site. When we counted numbers of labeled cells classified by morphological type, we found that both elongate and multipolar cells were labeled within the isofrequency contour. Because the dendrites of multipolar cells typically extend outside the isofrequency lamina, it is likely that they receive input from other isofrequency contours and relay it to more dorsomedial portions of their specific isofrequency contour, along with the frequency-specific projections of the elongate cells. Within a given isofrequency contour, there is a consistent organization in which intrinsic connections ascend from the ventrolateral portion to more dorsomedial points along the contour, forming a cascaded system of intrinsic feedforward connections that seem ideally suited to provide the delay lines necessary to produce several forms of selectivity for temporal patterns in inferior colliculus neurons.
The central nucleus of the inferior colliculus is a laminated structure composed of oriented dendrites and similarly oriented afferent fibers that provide a substrate for tonotopic organization. Although inputs from many sources converge in the inferior colliculus, how axons from these sources contribute to the laminar pattern has remained unclear. Here, we investigated the axons from the cochlear nuclei that terminate in the central nucleus of the cat and rat. After characterization of the best frequency of the neurons at the injection sites in the cochlear nucleus, the neurons were labeled with dextran in order to visualize their axons and synaptic boutons in the central nucleus. Quantitative methods were used to determine the size and distribution of the boutons within the laminar organization. Two components in the laminae were identified: (1) a narrow axonal lamina that included the largest fibers and largest boutons; (2) a wide axonal lamina, surrounding the narrow lamina, composed of thin fibers and only small boutons. The wide lamina was approximately 30-40% wider than the narrow lamina, and it often extended more than 100 microm beyond the larger boutons on each side. The presence of both thick and thin fibers within the acoustic striae following these injections suggests that large and small fibers/boutons within these bands may originate from different neuronal types in the dorsal and ventral cochlear nucleus. We conclude that the narrow laminae that contain large fibers and boutons originate from larger cell types in the cochlear nucleus. In contrast, the wide lamina composed exclusively of small boutons may represent an input from other, perhaps smaller neurons in the cochlear nucleus. Thus, two types of inferior colliculus laminar structures may originate from the cochlear nucleus, and the small boutons in the wide laminae may contribute a functionally distinct input to the neurons of the inferior colliculus.
Granule cells are the smallest neuronal type in the cochlear nucleus (CN). Due to their small size, it is extremely difficult to record their sound-evoked activity with microelectrodes. Compared with large, non-granule cells, much less is known about their response properties to sound stimulation. Here, we use Fos, the nuclear regulatory protein, as a neuronal activity marker to determine the responsiveness of granule cells to sound in comparison to the larger neurons. The present study determined the threshold sensitivity and activation pattern of neurons in the three subdivisions of the CN with free-field sound stimulation in monaural, awake rats. Immunocytochemical localization of Fos was used as our metric for &quot;sound activation.&quot; Neuronal types upregulating Fos expression in response to sound stimulation were further identified with Nissl counterstaining. Our results show that most CN cell types can upregulate Fos expression when sound activated and the number of Fos-expressing neurons is directly related to sound intensity. The threshold for Fos activation in granule cells is lower than that for non-granule cells. The number of Fos activated granule cells saturates at high sound intensity, while the number of Fos activated non-granule cells is a monotonic function. By comparing the patterns of sound-induced Fos expression in different CN cell types, it may be possible to predict features of sound-evoked activity in granule cells.
Globular bushy cells are a key element of brainstem circuits that mediate the early stages of sound localization. Many of their physiological properties have been attributed to convergence of inputs from the auditory nerve, many of which are large with complex geometry, but the number of these terminals contacting individual cells has not been measured directly. Herein we report, using cats as the experimental model, that this number ranged greatly (9-69) across a population of 12 cells, but over one-half of the cells (seven of 12) received between 15 and 23 inputs. In addition, we provide the first measurements of cell body surface area, which also varies considerably within this population and is uncorrelated with convergence. For one cell, we were able to document axonal structure over a distance greater than 100 microm, between the soma and the location where the axon expanded to its characteristic large diameter. These data were combined with accumulated physiological information on vesicle release, receptor kinetics and voltage-gated ionic conductances, and incorporated into computational models for four cells that are representative of the structural variation within our sample population. This predictive model reveals that basic physiological features, such as precise first spike latencies and peristimulus time histogram shapes, including primary-like with notch and onset-L, can be generated in these cells without including inhibitory inputs. However, phase-locking is not significantly enhanced over auditory-nerve fibers. These combined anatomical and computational approaches reveal additional parameters, such as active zone density, nerve terminal size, numbers and sources of inhibitory inputs and their activity patterns, that must be determined and incorporated into next-generation models to understand the physiology of globular bushy cells.
Neurosteroids are still found in the brain after steroidogenic glands were removed, indicating that they are synthesized either de novo or from endogenous precursors by enzymes present in the CNS. In fact, steroidogenic acute regulatory protein, and aromatase, two molecules essential for estrogen synthesis, are expressed in the hippocampus. We recently showed, for the first time, that estrogens are synthesized de novo in hippocampal neurons and that these hippocampus-derived estrogens are essential for synaptic plasticity. Both estrogen receptor isoforms, estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta, are expressed in the hippocampus, and estradiol treatment of the cultures leads to an upregulation of estrogen receptor alpha. This finding confirmed the presence of functional estrogen receptors in hippocampal neurons and showed the responsiveness of the cultured hippocampal neurons to estradiol. By using letrozole, an inhibitor of aromatase, estradiol levels in hippocampal dispersion cultures as well as in hippocampal slice cultures were significantly suppressed which in turn led to a downregulation of estrogen receptor alpha. Letrozole treatment was followed by a significant decrease in the density of spines and spine synapses and in the number of presynaptic boutons. Quantitative immunohistochemistry revealed a dose-dependent downregulation of spinophilin, a spine marker, and of synaptophysin, a presynaptic marker, and of growth-associated protein 43 after letrozole treatment. Our data provide strong evidence for estrogens being potent modulators of structural synaptic plasticity and point to a paracrine rather than endocrine mechanism of estrogen action in the hippocampus.
Previous studies showed that neurogenesis occurs in the dentate gyrus of the adult rodent. Recent evidence suggests that the resulting newly born neurons integrate into pre-existing hippocampal circuitry. Newly born neurons in the developing and adult dentate gyrus exhibit a transient basal dendrite. In adult pilocarpine-induced epileptic rats, basal dendrites persist and are ectopically located in the hilus where they receive synaptic input from mossy fiber axons. We hypothesize that these hilar basal dendrites are derived from newly born neurons that are born after the pilocarpine-induced seizures. To test this hypothesis, the length of basal dendrites from epileptic rats was compared with that from control rats using doublecortin immunocytochemistry, which labels newly born neurons and their processes for up to 3 weeks after their genesis. The data on hilar basal dendrites in pilocarpine animals indicate that those from newly born neurons are significantly longer than those found in the control rats. We also demonstrate that 20% of newly born neurons in the epileptic rat have a basal dendrite that enters the hilus at an angle greater than 30 degrees from its cell body as compared with &lt;2% in the control rats. Lastly, we provide evidence that the hilar basal dendrites in the epileptic rats are adjacent to glial fibrillary acidic protein-labeled astrocytic processes in the hilus and suggest that an ectopic glial scaffold in the hilus is involved with the formation of hilar basal dendrites. In conclusion, the data show that newly born neurons from epileptic rats have longer hilar basal dendrites and their formation might relate to gliosis which occurs as a result of hilar neuronal cell loss after status epilepticus.
Cannabinoids have been shown to modulate the inhibitory effect of cholecystokinin-containing GABAergic interneurons in the hippocampus via type 1 cannabinoid receptors (CB1 receptor). Although immunohistochemical studies, using pre-embedding techniques, have demonstrated that these receptors are abundant on GABAergic axon terminals, little is known about their exact location relative to the synapse. Here we used two recently developed antibodies against the CB1 receptor to study this question with the postembedding immunogold method, which allows the quantitative examination of receptor distribution along the axonal membrane, even within the synaptic active zone. CB1 receptor positive terminals target both the dendritic and somatic surface of neurons in the CA1 area of the rat hippocampus. We found no difference between these two populations of terminals either in their CB1 receptor density or in the distribution of receptors on their membrane. Recent studies suggest that endocannabinoids play a role in retrograde signaling at these synapses, i.e. signaling molecules diffuse from the postsynaptic membrane to nearby presynaptic terminals. Therefore, we examined the distribution of CB1 receptors on the terminal membranes. We found that they are rare in the synaptic active zone, but are enriched in the perisynaptic annulus, where they can directly influence synaptic calcium channels. Perisynaptic CB1 receptors represent about one tenth of all CB1 receptors in a terminal. In contrast, CB1 receptors have a lower density on the extrasynaptic membrane of terminals far from the postsynaptic cell. We estimated that these terminals contain exceptionally large numbers of CB1 receptors, i.e. a single axon terminal was usually labeled with more than 450 particles. An unexpected finding was that the density of CB1 receptors was significantly higher on preterminal axons than on synaptic terminals. These observations suggest that endocannabinoid signaling may subserve roles other than simply reducing transmitter release from axon terminals.
Cell death was assessed by quantitative analysis of propidium iodide uptake in rat hippocampal slice cultures transiently exposed to oxygen and glucose deprivation, an in vitro model of brain ischemia. The hippocampal subfields CA1 and CA3, and fascia dentata were analyzed at different stages from 0 to 48 h after the insult. Cell death appeared at 3 h and increased steeply toward 12 h. Only a slight additional increase in propidium iodide uptake was seen at later intervals. The mitogen-activated protein kinases extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 were activated immediately after oxygen and glucose deprivation both in CA1 and in CA3/fascia dentata. Inhibition of the specific mitogen-activated protein kinase activator mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase by PD98059 or U0126 offered partial protection against oxygen and glucose deprivation-induced cell damage. The non-selective P2X receptor antagonist suramin gave neuroprotection of the same magnitude as the N-methyl-D-aspartate channel blocker MK-801 (approximately 70%). Neuroprotection was also observed with the P2 receptor blocker PPADS. Immunogold data indicated that hippocampal slice cultures (like intact hippocampi) express several isoforms of P2X receptors at the synaptic level, consistent with the idea that the effects of suramin and PPADS are mediated by P2X receptors. Virtually complete neuroprotection was obtained by combined blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, P2X receptors, and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase. Both P2X receptors and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors mediate influx of calcium. Our results suggest that inhibition of P2X receptors has a neuroprotective potential similar to that of inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. In contrast, our comparative analysis shows that only partial protection can be achieved by inhibiting the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade, one of the downstream pathways activated by intracellular calcium overload.
Organotypic hippocampal slice cultures represent a feasible model for studies of cerebral ischemia and the role of ionotropic glutamate receptors in oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced neurodegeneration. New results and a review of existing data are presented in the first part of this paper. The role of glutamate transporters, with special reference to recent results on inhibition of glutamate transporters under normal and energy-failure (ischemia-like) conditions is reviewed in the last part of the paper. The experimental work is based on hippocampal slice cultures derived from 7 day old rats and grown for about 3 weeks. In such cultures we investigated the subfield neuronal susceptibility to oxygen-glucose deprivation, the type of induced cell death and the involvement of ionotropic glutamate receptors. Hippocampal slice cultures were also used in our studies on glutamate transporters reviewed in the last part of this paper. Neurodegeneration was monitored and/or shown by cellular uptake of propidium iodide, loss of immunocytochemical staining for microtubule-associated protein 2 and staining with Fluoro-Jade B. To distinguish between necrotic vs. apoptotic neuronal cell death we used immunocytochemical staining for active caspase-3 (apoptosis indicator) and Hoechst 33342 staining of nuclear chromatin. Our experimental studies on oxygen-glucose deprivation confirmed that CA1 pyramidal cells were the most susceptible to this ischemia-like condition. Judged by propidium iodide uptake, a selective CA1 lesion, with only minor affection on CA3, occurred in cultures exposed to oxygen-glucose deprivation for 30 min. Nuclear chromatin staining by Hoechst 33342 and staining for active caspase-3 showed that oxygen-glucose deprivation induced necrotic cell death only. Addition of 10 microM of the N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor antagonist MK-801, and 20 microM of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor antagonist 2,3-dihyroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(F)quinoxaline to the culture medium confirmed that both N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate ionotropic glutamate receptors were involved in the oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced cell death. Glutamate is normally quickly removed, from the extracellular space by sodium-dependent glutamate transporters. Effects of blocking the transporters by addition of the DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate are reviewed in the last part of the paper. Under normal conditions addition of DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate in concentrations of 25 microM or more to otherwise untreated hippocampal slice cultures induced neuronal cell death, which was prevented by addition of 2,3-dihyroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(F)quinoxaline and MK-801. In energy failure situations, like cerebral ischemia and oxygen-glucose deprivation, the transporters are believed to reverse and release glutamate to the extracellular space. Blockade of the transporters by a subtoxic (10 microM) dose of DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate during oxygen-glucose deprivation (but not during the next 48 h after oxygen-glucose deprivation) significantly reduced the oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced propidium iodide uptake, suggesting a neuroprotective inhibition of reverse transporter activity by DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate during oxygen-glucose deprivation under these conditions. Adding to this, other results from our laboratory have demonstrated that pre-treatment of the slice cultures with glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor upregulates glutamate transporters. As a logical, but in some glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor therapy-related conditions clearly unwanted consequence the susceptibility for oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced glutamate receptor-mediated cell death is increased after glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor treatment. In summary, we conclude that both ionotropic glutamate receptors and glutamate transporters are involved in oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced necrotic cell death in hippocampal slice cultures, which have proven to be a feasible tool in experimental studies on this topic.
Previous findings, mainly in in vitro systems, have shown that the density of vesicles and the synaptic efficacy at excitatory synapses are reduced in the absence of synapsins, despite the fact that transgenic mice lacking synapsins develop an epileptic phenotype. Here we study glutamate receptors by quantitative immunoblotting and by quantitative electron microscopic postembedding immunocytochemistry in hippocampus of perfusion fixed control wild type and double knock-out mice lacking synapsins I and II. In wild type hippocampus the densities of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor subunits were higher (indicated for glutamate receptor subunit 1, highly significant for glutamate receptor subunits 2/3) in mossy fiber-to-cornu ammonis 3 pyramidal cell synapses than in the Schaffer collateral/commissural-to-cornu ammonis 1 pyramidal cell synapses, the two synapse categories that carry the main excitatory throughput of the hippocampus. The opposite was true for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. The difference in localization of glutamate receptor subunit 1 receptor subunits was increased in the double knock-out mice while there was no change in the overall expression of the glutamate receptors in hippocampus as shown by quantitative Western blotting. The increased level of glutamate receptor subunit 1 at the mossy fiber-to-cornu ammonis 3 pyramidal cell synapse may result in alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors with reduced proportions of glutamate receptor subunit 2, and hence increased Ca2+ influx, which could cause increased excitability despite of impaired synaptic function (cf. [Krestel HE, Shimshek DR, Jensen V, Nevian T, Kim J, Geng Y, Bast T, Depaulis A, Schonig K, Schwenk F, Bujard H, Hvalby O, Sprengel R, Seeburg PH (2004) A genetic switch for epilepsy in adult mice. J Neurosci 24:10568-10578]), possibly underlying the seizure proneness in the synapsin double knock-out mice. In addition, the tendency to increased predominance of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors at the main type of excitatory synapse onto cornu ammonis 1 pyramidal cells might contribute to the seizure susceptibility of the synapsin deficient mice. The results showed no significant changes in the proportion of 'silent' Schaffer collateral/commissural synapses lacking alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors or in the synaptic membrane size, indicating that plasticity involving these parameters is not preferentially triggered due to lack of synapsins.
Because of the complex and dynamic structure of the brain, there is perhaps no other organ system in which the application of stereological methods can contribute so much with regard to understanding normal and pathological processes. In order to design the studies in an optimal manner, with regard to the number of individuals, sections, probes, and to be able to critically evaluate the stereological studies made by others, it is important for neuroscientists to have an understanding of the precision or reproducibility of a stereological estimation procedure. This precision or reproducibility is often referred to as the coefficient of error of the estimate, which is a statistical expression for the size of the standard error of the mean of repeated estimates, relative to the mean of the estimates. Like the 'margin of error' associated with public opinion polls, it indicates how much the estimate would vary if it were repeated numerous times. It is difficult and time consuming to empirically derive the coefficient of error of estimates made of features observed in histological preparations. To overcome this obstacle, it is common practice to try to get a feeling for the precision of an estimate by estimating the coefficient of error itself. In this paper, we will compare and discuss the coefficient of error of estimates of volume and cell number made with different numbers of sections and probes in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer of the rat hippocampus. The conclusions drawn from this analysis indicate that, using practically feasible and anatomically sensible sampling schemes, the Gundersen-Jensen coefficient of error estimator or the 'Split-Sample' coefficient of error estimator can provide useful information about the precision of stereological estimates even in highly irregular brain regions and requires little work.
Little is known about the morphological characteristics and intrinsic electrophysiological properties of individual neurons in the nonhuman primate hippocampus. We have used intracellular recording and biocytin-labeling techniques in the in vitro hippocampal slice preparation to provide quantitative evaluation of the fundamental morphological and intrinsic electrophysiological characteristics of macaque monkey CA1 pyramidal neurons. These neurons have previously been studied in the rat in our laboratory. Monkey CA1 pyramidal neurons have an average soma volume of 3578 microm3, 4.71 basal dendrites with 53 terminal branches for a dendritic length of about 10,164 microm, 1.13 apical dendrites with 47 terminal branches for a dendritic length of about 10,678 microm. In comparison, rat CA1 pyramidal neurons have an average soma volume of 2066 microm3, 3.35 basal dendrites with 29 terminal branches for a dendritic length of about 4,586 microm, 1.43 apical dendrites with 62 terminal branches for a dendritic length of about 8,838 microm. The basic intrinsic electrophysiological properties of CA1 pyramidal cells are similar in monkeys and rats. Monkey CA1 pyramidal neurons have a resting membrane potential of about -62 mV (rat: -62 mV), an input resistance of 35 MOmega (rat: 34-49 MOmega), a rheobase of 0.17 nA (rat: 0.12-0.20 nA) and an action potential amplitude of 83 mV (rat: 71-89 mV). Although morphological differences such as the increased dendritic length may translate into differences in neural processing between primates and rodents, the functional significance of these morphological differences is not yet clear. Quantitative studies of the primate brain are critical in order to extrapolate information derived from rodent studies into better understanding of the normal and pathological function of the human hippocampus.
The synaptic organization of projections to the subiculum from superficial layers of the lateral and medial entorhinal cortex was analyzed in the rat, using anterograde neuroanatomical tracing followed by electron microscopical quantification. Our aim was to assess the synaptic organization and whether the two projection components (lateral, medial) within the perforant pathway are qualitatively and quantitatively similar with respect to the types of synapses formed and with respect to the postsynaptic targets of these entorhinal projections. The tracer biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) was injected into the lateral and medial entorhinal cortex, respectively, and resulting anterograde labeling in the subiculum was studied. For each of the two projection components, we analyzed in four animals (2 x 2) a total of 100 synapses/animal with respect to features of the synapse type, i.e. asymmetrical or symmetrical, as well as regarding their postsynaptic target, i.e. dendritic shaft or spine. No clear differences were observed between the two pathways. The majority of the synapses were of the asymmetrical type, making contact with spines (78%) or with dendritic shafts (14%). A low percentage of symmetrical synapses targeted dendritic shafts (4.2%) or spines (1.3%). About 2.5% of the synapses remained undetermined. The findings indicate that the majority of entorhinal fibers reaching the subiculum exert an excitatory influence primarily onto principal neurons, with a much smaller feed forward inhibitory component. Only a small percentage of entorhinal fibers in the subiculum appears to be inhibitory, largely influencing interneurons.
In this study we explored whether a postnatal doubling of the total number of neurons occurs in the human Brodmann areas 44 and 45 (Broca's area). We describe the most recent error prediction formulae and their application for the modern stereological estimators for volume and number of neurons. We estimated the number of neurons in 3D optical disector probes systematically random sampled throughout the entire Brodmann areas (BA) 44 and 45 in developing and young adult cases. In the relatively small number of male and female cases studied no substantial postnatal increase in total number of neurons occurred in areas 44 and 45; the volume of these areas reached adult values around 7 years. In addition, we did find indications that a shift from a right-over-left to a left-over-right asymmetry may occur in the volume of BA 45 during postnatal development. No major asymmetry in total number of neurons in BA 44 and 45 was detected.
The basal forebrain refers to heterogeneous structures located close to the medial and ventral surfaces of the cerebral hemispheres. It contains diverse populations of neurons, including the cholinergic cortically projecting cells that show severe loss in Alzheimer's and related neurodegenerative diseases. The basal forebrain does not display any cytoarchitectural or other structural features that make it easy to demarcate functional boundaries, a problem that allowed different investigators to propose different organizational schemes. The present paper uses novel three-dimensional reconstructions and numerical analyses for studying the spatial organization of four major basal forebrain cell populations, the cholinergic, parvalbumin, calbindin and calretinin containing neurons in the rat. Our analyses suggest that the distribution of these four cell populations is not random but displays a general pattern of association. Within the cholinergic space (i.e. the volume occupied by the cortically projecting cholinergic cell bodies) the three other cell types form twisted bands along the longitudinal axis of a central dense core of cholinergic cells traversing the traditionally defined basal forebrain regions, (i.e. the medial septum, diagonal bands, the substantia innominata, pallidal regions and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis). At a smaller scale, the different cell types within the cholinergic space occupy overlapping high-density cell clusters that are either chemically uniform or mixed. However, the cell composition of these high-density clusters is regionally specific. The proposed scheme of basal forebrain organization, using cell density or density relations as criteria, offers a new perspective on structure-function relationship, unconstrained by traditional region boundaries.
Integration of dispersed and complicated information collected from the brain is needed to build new knowledge. But integration may be hampered by rigid presentation formats, diversity of data formats among laboratories, and lack of access to lower level data. We have addressed some of the fundamental issues related to this challenge at the level of anatomical data, by producing a coordinate based digital atlas and database application for a major projection system in the rat brain: the cerebro-ponto-cerebellar system. This application, Functional Anatomy of the Cerebro-Cerebellar System in rat (FACCS), is available via the Rodent Brain WorkBench (http://www.rbwb.org). The data included are x,y,z-coordinate lists describing exact distributions of tissue elements (axonal terminal fields of axons, or cell bodies) that are labeled with axonal tracing techniques. All data are translated to a common local coordinate system to facilitate across animal comparison. A search capability allows queries based on, e.g. location of tracer injection sites, tracer category, size of the injection sites, and contributing author. A graphic search tool allows the user to move a volume cursor inside a coordinate system to detect particular injection sites having connections to a specific tissue volume at chosen density levels. Tools for visualization and analysis of selected data are included, as well as an option to download individual data sets for further analysis. With this application, data and metadata from different experiments are mapped into the same information structure and made available for re-use and re-analysis in novel combinations. The application is prepared for future handling of data from other projection systems as well as other data categories.
Cognitive impairment in normal aging and neurodegenerative diseases is accompanied by altered morphologies on multiple scales. Understanding of the role of these structural changes in producing functional deficits in brain aging and neuropsychiatric disorders requires accurate three-dimensional representations of neuronal morphology, and realistic biophysical modeling that can directly relate structural changes to altered neuronal firing patterns. To date however, tools capable of resolving, digitizing and analyzing neuronal morphology on both local and global scales, and with sufficient throughput and automation, have been lacking. The precision of existing image analysis-based morphometric tools is restricted at the finest scales, where resolution of fine dendritic features and spine geometry is limited by the skeletonization methods used, and by quantization errors arising from insufficient imaging resolution. We are developing techniques for imaging, reconstruction and analysis of neuronal morphology that capture both local and global structural variation. To minimize quantization error and evaluate more precisely the fine geometry of dendrites and spines, we introduce a new shape analysis technique, the Rayburst sampling algorithm that uses the original grayscale data rather than the segmented images for precise, continuous radius estimation, and multidirectional radius sampling to represent non-circular branch cross-sections and anisotropic structures such as dendritic spine heads, with greater accuracy. We apply the Rayburst technique to 3D neuronal shape analysis at different scales. We reconstruct and digitize entire neurons from stacks of laser-scanning microscopy images, as well as globally complex structures such as multineuron networks and microvascular networks. We also introduce imaging techniques necessary to recover detailed information on three-dimensional mass distribution and surface roughness of amyloid beta plaques from human Alzheimer's disease patients and from the Tg2576 mouse that expresses the &quot;Swedish&quot; mutation of the amyloid precursor protein. By providing true three-dimensional morphometry of complex histologic structures on multiple scales, the tools described in this report will enable multiscale biophysical modeling studies capable of testing potential mechanisms by which altered dendritic structure, spine geometry and network branching patterns that occur in normal aging and in many brain disorders, determine deficits of functions such as working memory and cognition.
Specific antibodies are essential tools for identifying individual proteins in biological samples. While generation of antibodies is often straightforward, determination of the antibody specificity is not. Here we illustrate this by describing the production and characterization of antibodies to excitatory amino acid transporter 3 (EAAT3). We synthesized 13 peptides corresponding to parts of the EAAT3 sequence and immunized 6 sheep and 30 rabbits. All sera were affinity purified against the relevant immobilized peptide. Antibodies to the peptides were obtained in almost all cases. Immunoblotting with tissue extracts from wild type and EAAT3 knockout animals revealed that most of the antibodies did not recognize the native EAAT3 protein, and that some recognized other proteins. Several immunization protocols were tried, but strong reactions with EAAT3 were only seen with antibodies to the C-terminal peptides. In contrast, good antibodies were obtained to several parts of EAAT2. EAAT3 was only detected in neurons. However, rabbits immunized with an EAAT3-peptide corresponding to residues 479-498 produced antibodies that labeled axoplasm and microtubules therein particularly strongly. On blots, these antibodies recognized both EAAT3 and a slightly smaller, but far more abundant protein that turned out to be tubulin. The antibodies were fractionated on columns with immobilized tubulin. One fraction contained antibodies apparently specific for EAAT3 while another fraction contained antibodies recognizing both EAAT3 and tubulin despite the lack of primary sequence identity between the two proteins. Addition of free peptide to the incubation solution blocked immunostaining of both EAAT3 and tubulin. Conclusions: Not all antibodies to synthetic peptides recognize the native protein. The peptide sequence is more important than immunization protocol. The specificity of an antibody is hard to predict because cross-reactivity can be specific and to unrelated molecules. The antigen preabsorption test is of little value in testing the specificity of affinity purified antibodies.
Cerebellar morphogenesis occurs through a complex interplay of cell proliferation and migration that in mouse and rat begins about midgestation and ends in the third postnatal week. Cerebellar cells derive from germinative matrices in the ventricular zone and the external granular layer. Like granule cells, unipolar brush cells (UBCs) are excitatory interneurons situated in the granular layer of the cortex and innervated by mossy fibers. While granule cells are produced from the external granular layer, the generation of UBCs is still controversial. We utilized the reeler mutant mouse, which has widespread misplacement of neurons due to lack of Reelin protein, to ascertain the origin of UBCs. In the reeler cerebellum, which is small and lacks foliation, Purkinje cells are greatly reduced in number and in large part are located ectopically in deep cerebellar masses. Granule cells are also reduced in number and form an irregular granule cell layer. In this study we demonstrate that the reeler mutation influences the positioning of UBCs and also significantly reduces their number. Both subsets of UBCs identified in normal mouse, the calretinin-positive and the metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha-positive subsets, are affected in the reeler. About 40% of the calretinin-positive UBCs are ectopically situated in the deep cerebellar regions and the immediate vicinity of the ependyma of the fourth ventricle. Ectopic UBCs have discrete, although somewhat looser brushes than granular layer UBCs, but form synaptic junctions with complex axon terminals, possibly belonging to mossy fibers and UBC axons, like their normally situated counterpart. The observed displacement of UBCs in the reeler suggests that they originate from the ventricular zone.
Combining gene expression data with morphological information has revolutionized developmental neuroanatomy in the last decade. Visualization and interpretation of complex images have been crucial to these advances in our understanding of mechanisms underlying early brain development, as most developmental processes are spatially oriented, in topologically invariant patterns that become overtly distorted during brain morphogenesis. It has also become clear that more powerful methodologies are needed to accommodate the increasing volume of data available and the increasingly sophisticated analyses that are required, for example analyzing anatomy and multiple gene expression patterns at individual developmental stages, or identifying and analyzing homologous structures through time and/or between species. Three-dimensional models have long been recognized as a valuable way of providing a visual interpretation and overview of complex morphological data. We have used a recently developed method, optical projection tomography, to generate digital three-dimensional models of early human brain development. These models can be used both as frameworks, onto which normal or experimental gene expression data can be mapped, and as objects, within which topological morphological relationships can be investigated in silico. Gene expression patterns and selected morphological structures or boundaries can then be visualized individually or in different combinations in order to study their respective morphogenetic significance. Here, we review briefly the optical projection tomography method, placing it in the context of other methods used to generate developmental three dimensional models, and show the definition of some CNS anatomical domains within a Carnegie stage 19 human model. We also map the telencephalic EMX1 and PAX6 gene expression patterns to this model, corroborating for the first time the existence of a ventral pallium primordium in the telencephalon of human embryos, a distinct claustroamygdaloid histogenetic area comparable to the recently defined mouse primordium given that name [Puelles L, Kuwana E, Puelles E, Bulfone A, Shimamura K, Keleher J, Smiga S, Rubenstein JLR (2000) Pallial and subpallial derivatives in the embryonic chick and mouse telencephalon, traced by the expression of the genes Dlx-2, Emx-1, Nkx-2.1, Pax-6, and Tbr-1. J Comp Neurol 424:409-438; Puelles L, Martnez S, Martnez-de-la-Torre M, Rubenstein JLR (2004) Gene maps and related histogenetic domains in the forebrain and midbrain. In: The rat nervous system, 3rd ed (Paxinos G, ed), pp 3-25. San Diego: Academic Press].
In the present work, we used a unique cortical/striatal/subventricular zone organotypic model in order to analyze the role of resident microglia in oxygen/glucose deprivation and to check the presence and modulation of several P2 receptors in the cortex. Immunofluorescence with the microglial marker OX42 and pharmacological experiments with indomethacin indicate that activation and recruitment of microglia after the insult is linked to cellular loss, mainly in the cortex. The confocal analysis with OX42 shows that, among the P2 receptors tested, P2X4, and P2X7 are expressed on microglia, while P2X1 and P2Y(1-2-12), although present in the slices, did not co-localize, whereas P2X6 is not detected. The upregulation of P2X4 and P2X7 on microglia and the toxic effect that different P2 agonists exert on cortical slices during oxygen/glucose deprivation indicate that a purinergic mechanism is related to the microglia activity; the protective effect of the P2 antagonist TNP-ATP is also described. In order to better understand the relationship between P2 receptors and OGD-activated microglia, we induced oxygen/glucose deprivation in co-cultures of organotypic slices and N9 microglia cell line. The presence of the N9 (which expresses P2X4 and P2X7 protein) in the cultures increases the damage in the cortex by 40% and the use of P2 antagonist PPADS reduced the cell damage due to the N9 activation. Our results show that microglia recruitment after a metabolic impairment is associated with cellular loss and that P2X4 and P2X7, are involved in microglia activity. The neuroprotective action exerted by TNP-ATP and PPADS and the possible use of purinergic antagonist in the pharmacological treatment of oxygen/glucose deprivation is also addressed.
Theodor W. Blackstad devised methods by which the synaptic connectivity of neuron somata and their dendritic and axonal processes in the CNS could be analyzed by the combined use of light and electron microscope techniques. His first publication on that subject dates from 1965 and was contemporary to the independent research by William K. Stell. The Golgi method was an obvious neuronal marker at those times, and Blackstad and Stell showed that the Golgi precipitate is electron-dense and intracellular and, therefore, it could help identify in the electron microscope, with great accuracy, profiles of neurons initially visualized in light microscopy. Besides this convergent research, Blackstad demonstrated for the first time that anterograde axonal degeneration could be combined with the Golgi-electron microscope method, allowing the identification of the neurons whose dendritic or somatic profiles were postsynaptic to the severed axonal afferent projections. Last, but not least, Blackstad pioneered de-impregnation techniques for electron microscopy of Golgi preparations. This had a great impact in the study of synaptic circuitry. The present account is a remembrance of the events that linked these early attempts with the development of a de-impregnation method based on gold toning by Alan Peters and the present author.

Approximately 4000 human beings experience a traumatic brain injury each day in the United States ranging in severity from mild to fatal. Improvements in initial management, surgical treatment, and neurointensive care have resulted in a better prognosis for traumatic brain injury patients but, to date, there is no available pharmaceutical treatment with proven efficacy, and prevention is the major protective strategy. Many patients are left with disabling changes in cognition, motor function, and personality. Over the past two decades, a number of experimental laboratories have attempted to develop novel and innovative ways to replicate, in animal models, the different aspects of this heterogenous clinical paradigm to better understand and treat patients after traumatic brain injury. Although several clinically-relevant but different experimental models have been developed to reproduce specific characteristics of human traumatic brain injury, its heterogeneity does not allow one single model to reproduce the entire spectrum of events that may occur. The use of these models has resulted in an increased understanding of the pathophysiology of traumatic brain injury, including changes in molecular and cellular pathways and neurobehavioral outcomes. This review provides an up-to-date and critical analysis of the existing models of traumatic brain injury with a view toward guiding and improving future research endeavors.
I.V. delivery of mesenchymal stem cells prepared from adult bone marrow reduces infarction size and ameliorates functional deficits in rat cerebral ischemia models. Administration of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor to the infarction site has also been demonstrated to be neuroprotective. To test the hypothesis that brain-derived neurotrophic factor contributes to the therapeutic benefits of mesenchymal stem cell delivery, we compared the efficacy of systemic delivery of human mesenchymal stem cells and human mesenchymal stem cells transfected with a fiber-mutant F/RGD adenovirus vector with a brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene (brain-derived neurotrophic factor-human mesenchymal stem cells). A permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion was induced by intraluminal vascular occlusion with a microfilament. Human mesenchymal stem cells and brain-derived neurotrophic factor-human mesenchymal stem cells were i.v. injected into the rats 6 h after middle cerebral artery occlusion. Lesion size was assessed at 6 h, 1, 3 and 7 days using MR imaging, and histological methods. Functional outcome was assessed using the treadmill stress test. Both human mesenchymal stem cells and brain-derived neurotrophic factor-human mesenchymal stem cells reduced lesion volume and elicited functional improvement compared with the control sham group, but the effect was greater in the brain-derived neurotrophic factor-human mesenchymal stem cell group. ELISA analysis of the infarcted hemisphere revealed an increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the human mesenchymal stem cell groups, but a greater increase in the brain-derived neurotrophic factor-human mesenchymal stem cell group. These data support the hypothesis that brain-derived neurotrophic factor contributes to neuroprotection in cerebral ischemia and cellular delivery of brain-derived neurotrophic factor can be achieved by i.v. delivery of human mesenchymal stem cells.
The nucleus accumbens is thought to subserve different aspects of adaptive and emotional behaviors. The anatomical substrates for such actions are multiple, parallel ventral striatopallidal output circuits originating in the nucleus accumbens shell and core subregions. Several indirect ways of interaction between the two subregions and their associated circuitry have been proposed, in particular through striato-pallido-thalamic and dopaminergic pathways. In this study, using anterograde neuroanatomical tracing with Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin and biotinylated dextran amine as well as single-cell juxtacellular filling with neurobiotin, we investigated the intra-accumbens distribution of local axon collaterals for the identification of possible direct connections between the shell and core subregions. Our results show widespread intra-accumbens projection patterns, including reciprocal projections between specific parts of the shell and core. However, fibers originating in the core reach more distant areas of the shell, including the rostral pole (i.e. the calbindin-poor part of the shell anterior to the core) and striatal parts of the olfactory tubercle, than those arising in the shell and projecting to the core. The latter projections are more restricted to the border region between the shell and core. The density of the fiber labeling within both the shell and core was very similar. Moreover, specific intrinsic projections within shell and core were identified, including a relatively strong projection from the rostral pole to the rostral shell, reciprocal projections between the rostral and caudal shell, as well as projections within the core that have a caudal-to-rostral predominance. The results of the juxtacellular filling experiments show that medium-sized spiny projection neurons and medium-sized aspiny neurons (most likely fast-spiking) contribute to these intra-accumbens projections. While such neurons are GABAergic, the intrastriatal projection patterns indicate the existence of lateral inhibitory interactions within, as well as between, shell and core subregions of the nucleus accumbens.
Scaffolding proteins containing postsynaptic density-95/discs large/zone occludens-1 (PDZ) domains interact with synaptic receptors and cytoskeletal components and are therefore implicated in synaptic development and plasticity. Little is known, however, about what regulates the expression of PDZ proteins and how the levels of these proteins influence synaptic development. Here, we show that ligands for epidermal growth factor receptors (ErbB1) decrease a particular set of PDZ proteins and negatively influence synaptic formation or maturation. In short-term neocortical cultures, concentrations of epidermal growth factor and amphiregulin (2-9 pM) decreased the expression of glutamate receptor interacting protein 1 (GRIP1) and synapse-associated protein 97 kDa (SAP97) without affecting postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95) levels and glial proliferation. In long-term cultures, epidermal growth factor treatment resulted in a decrease in the frequency of pan-PDZ-immunoreactive aggregates on dendritic processes. A similar activity on the same PDZ proteins was observed in the developing neocortex following epidermal growth factor administration to rat neonates. Immunoblotting revealed that administered epidermal growth factor from the periphery activated brain ErbB1 receptors and decreased GRIP1 and SAP97 protein levels in the neocortex. Laser-confocal imaging indicated that epidermal growth factor administration suppressed the formation of pan-PDZ-immunoreactive puncta and dispersed those structures in vivo as well. These findings revealed a novel negative activity of ErbB1 receptor ligands that attenuates the expression of the PDZ proteins and inhibits postsynaptic maturation in developing neocortex.
Although multiple effects of GABA(B) receptor activation on synaptic transmission in the striatum have been described, the precise locations of the receptors mediating these effects have not been determined. To address this issue, we carried out pre-embedding immunogold electron microscopy in the rat using antibodies against the GABA(B) receptor subunits, GABA(B1) and GABA(B2). In addition, to investigate the relationship between GABA(B) receptors and glutamatergic striatal afferents, we used antibodies against the vesicular glutamate transporters, vesicular glutamate transporter 1 and vesicular glutamate transporter 2, as markers for glutamatergic terminals. Immunolabeling for GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) was widely and similarly distributed in the striatum, with immunogold particles localized at both presynaptic and postsynaptic sites. The most commonly labeled structures were dendritic shafts and spines, as well as terminals forming asymmetric and symmetric synapses. In postsynaptic structures, the majority of labeling associated with the plasma membrane was localized at extrasynaptic sites, although immunogold particles were also found at the postsynaptic specialization of some symmetric, putative GABAergic synapses. Labeling in axon terminals was located within, or at the edge of, the presynaptic active zone, as well as at extrasynaptic sites. Double labeling for GABA(B) receptor subunits and vesicular glutamate transporters revealed that labeling for both GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) was localized on glutamatergic axon terminals that expressed either vesicular glutamate transporter 1 or vesicular glutamate transporter 2. The patterns of innervation of striatal neurons by the vesicular glutamate transporter 1- and vesicular glutamate transporter 2-positive terminals suggest that they are selective markers of corticostriatal and thalamostriatal afferents, respectively. These results thus provide evidence that presynaptic GABA(B) heteroreceptors are in a position to modulate the two major excitatory inputs to striatal spiny projection neurons arising in the cortex and thalamus. In addition, presynaptic GABA(B) autoreceptors are present on the terminals of spiny projection neurons and/or striatal GABAergic interneurons. Furthermore, the data indicate that GABA may also affect the excitability of striatal neurons via postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors.
It is currently thought that the hypothalamus influences motor output through connections with premotor structures which in turn project to motor nuclei. However, hypocretinergic/orexinergic projections to different motor pools have recently been demonstrated. The present study was undertaken to examine whether hypocretinergic/orexinergic neurons are the only source of projections from the hypothalamus to the trigeminal motor nucleus in the guinea-pig. Cholera toxin subunit b was injected into the trigeminal motor nucleus in order to retrogradely label premotor neurons. Two anatomically separated populations of labeled neurons were observed in the hypothalamus: one group was distributed along the dorsal zone of the lateral hypothalamic area, the lateral portion of the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus and the perifornical nucleus; the other was located within the periventricular portion of the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus. Numerous cholera toxin subunit b+ neurons in both populations displayed glutamate-like immunoreactivity. In addition, premotor neurons containing hypocretin/orexin were distributed throughout the lateral dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, perifornical nucleus and lateral hypothalamic area. Other premotor neurons were immunostained for melanin concentrating hormone; these cells, which were located within the lateral hypothalamic area and the perifornical nucleus, were intermingled with glutamatergic and hypocretinergic/orexinergic neurons. Nitrergic premotor neurons were located only in the periventricular zone of the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus. None of the hypothalamic premotor neurons were GABAergic, cholinergic or monoaminergic. The existence of diverse neurotransmitter systems projecting from the hypothalamus to the trigeminal motor pool indicates that this diencephalic structure may influence the numerous functions that are subserved by the trigeminal motor system.

The dorsal striatum has long been thought to be important for some types of learning and memory, especially stimulus-response learning. Recently, we demonstrated that selective lesions of the dorsolateral striatum, but not dorsomedial striatum in rats, retarded the acquisition of two instrumental discrimination tasks thought to require stimulus-response learning. However, since these studies investigated the effects of dorsal striatal lesions on task acquisition, which can be confounded by differences in level of reinforcement and motor impairment caused by the lesion, the interpretation of these findings was somewhat problematic. The present experiment was designed to address these issues by assessing the effects of lesions of the dorsolateral striatum on a simplified version of the conditional discrimination task, in which the importance of reinforcement and motor factors was minimized. Animals with lesions of the dorsolateral striatum showed marked impairments in learning this task, a finding that is in agreement with the notion that the dorsolateral striatum is necessary for stimulus-response learning.
Immunoreactivity for alpha4, beta1 and delta GABAA receptor subunits on neurones in the periaqueductal gray matter was investigated at different stages of the estrous cycle in Wistar rats. Immunostaining for alpha4, beta1 and delta GABAA receptor subunits was present on neurones throughout the periaqueductal gray matter. The numbers of subunit-immunoreactive neurones remained constant during the early phases of the estrous cycle (proestrus to early diestrus) but increased significantly in late diestrus. Dual immunolabeling for the GABA synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase revealed that almost 90% of the subunit-positive cells contained immunoreactivity for glutamic acid decarboxylase. During the early phases of the estrous cycle (proestrus to early diestrus), approximately one third of the glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive population co-localized alpha4, beta1 and delta GABAA receptor subunits. When the number of subunit positive cells increased during late diestrus, the proportion of the glutamic acid decarboxylase-containing population that expressed alpha4, beta1 and delta GABAA receptor subunits almost doubled. We propose that GABAA receptors with the alpha4beta1delta configuration are expressed by GABAergic neurones in the periaqueductal gray matter and that the numbers of cells expressing these subunits are increased in late diestrus in line with falling plasma progesterone levels. Changes in GABAA receptor expression may lead to changes in the excitability of the neural circuitry in the periaqueductal gray matter.
We have reported in the past that female rats fed a powdered diet showed better spatial learning and memory functions than female rats a fed pelleted diet. In the present study, we examined the effects of feeding with powdered diet on acetylcholine release in the hippocampus in both sexes of rats. After weaning (3 weeks of age), rats were fed either standard pelleted diet or powdered diet, and after maturation (9-12 weeks of age), they were used in an in vivo microdialysis study, in which no eserine (a cholinesterase inhibitor) was added to the perfusate. The dialysate was collected from the dorsal hippocampus at 20-min intervals under freely moving conditions for more than 24 h. Acetylcholine in the dialysate was measured by high performance liquid chromatography. As we reported previously, the acetylcholine release showed a clear daily rhythm in both sexes, and males showed significantly greater acetylcholine release in the hippocampus than females in rats fed pelleted diet. Conversely, in rats fed powdered diet, no sex difference in the acetylcholine release was observed, since feeding with powdered diet significantly increased the acetylcholine release only in females. To further examine the number of cholinergic neurons in the medial septum and horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca, immunocytochemistry for choline acetyltransferase was performed in both sexes of rats fed either standard pelleted diet or powdered diet. However, neither sex nor feeding conditions affect the number of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive cells in the areas. These results suggest that powdered diet after weaning enhances spontaneous acetylcholine release in the hippocampus in female rats without changes in the number of cholinergic neurons in the areas. It is possible that this effect of feeding contributes to improve the performance in spatial learning and memory functions in female rats fed powdered diet.
Both N- and P/Q-type voltage-dependent calcium channels are involved in fast transmitter release in the hippocampus, but are differentially regulated. Although variable contributions of voltage-dependent calcium channel subtypes to presynaptic Ca2+ influx have been suggested to give a neural network of great diversity, their presence has only been demonstrated in a culture system and has remained unclear in the brain. Here, the individual large mossy fiber presynaptic terminal was labeled with Ca2+/Sr2+-sensitive fluorescent dextrans in the hippocampal slice of the mouse. The fractional contribution of voltage-dependent calcium channel subtypes to presynaptic Ca2+/Sr2+ influx was directly measured by the sensitivity of Ca2+/Sr2+-dependent fluorescent increment to subtype-selective neurotoxins, omega-conotoxin GVIA (an N-type selective blocker), omega-agatoxin IVA (a P/Q-type selective blocker) and SNX-482 (an R-type selective blocker). Synapse-to-synapse comparison of large mossy fiber terminals revealed that the contributions of N- and R-type voltage-dependent calcium channels varied more widely than that of P/Q-type. Even two large mossy fiber presynaptic terminals neighboring on the same axon differed in the fractional contributions of N- and R-type voltage-dependent calcium channels. On the other hand, these terminals were similar in the fractional contributions of P/Q-type voltage-dependent calcium channels. These results provide direct evidence that individual large mossy fiber synapses are differential in the contribution of N- and R-type voltage-dependent calcium channel subtypes to presynaptic Ca2+/Sr2+ influx. We suggest that the synapse-to-synapse variation of presynaptic voltage-dependent calcium channel subtype contributions may be one of the mechanisms amplifying diversity of the hippocampal network.
Acetylcholine and dopamine afferents reach their cortical targets during periods of synaptogenesis, and are in position to influence the cytoarchitectural development of cortical neurons. To determine the effect of removing these afferents on dendritic development, we lesioned rat pups at 7 days of age with the selective immunotoxins 192 IgG-saporin, or 6-hydroxydopamine, or both. One group of rats was killed in adulthood for neurochemistry and another was prepared for morphology using Golgi-Cox staining. Changes in morphology were compared in layer V pyramidal cells from medial prefrontal cortex, which sustained the greatest dopamine depletion, and in layer II/III pyramidal cells from retrosplenial cortex, which sustained the greatest choline acetyltransferase depletion. In rats with acetylcholine lesions, layer V medial prefrontal cells had smaller apical tufts and fewer basilar dendritic branches. Both apical and basilar spine density was substantially reduced. Layer II/III retrosplenial cells also had smaller apical tufts and substantially smaller basilar dendritic trees. Apical and basilar spine density did not change. In rats with dopamine lesions, layer V medial prefrontal cells had fewer oblique apical dendrites and atrophied basilar trees. Layer II/III retrosplenial cells had fewer apical dendritic branches. In neither area were spine densities significantly different from control. Neurons from rats with combined lesions were always smaller and less complex than those from singly lesioned rats. However, these cells were simple, additive composites of the morphology produced by single lesions. These data demonstrate that ascending acetylcholine and dopamine afferents play a vital role in the development of cortical cytoarchitecture.
The hippocampus, an important integration center for learning and memory in the mammalian brain, undergoes neurological changes in response to a variety of stimuli that are suggestive of ongoing synaptic reorganization. Accordingly, the aim of this study was to identify markers of synaptic plasticity using rapid and reliable techniques such as radioimmunocytochemistry and confocal microscopy, thereby providing a &quot;birds-eye view&quot; of the whole hippocampus under hypercorticosteronemic conditions. The regulation of microtubule-associated protein 2, synaptophysin and postsynaptic density-95 was examined in two different animal models of hypercorticosteronemia: corticosterone administration and streptozotocin-induced diabetes using both a short-term (1 week) and long-term (5 weeks) treatment. Glucocorticoids and/or hyperglycemia increased synaptophysin expression in CA1, CA3 and the dentate gyrus, regions that exhibit synaptic plasticity in response to glucocorticoid exposure. In these models, postsynaptic density-95 expression increased in the CA3 region, particularly in the diabetic rats, while microtubule-associated protein 2 exhibited more selective changes. Fluoro-Jade histochemistry did not detect neuronal damage, suggesting that glucocorticoids and/or hyperglycemia induce plastic and not irreversible neuronal changes at these time points. Collectively, these results demonstrate that changes in the expression and distribution of synaptic proteins provide another measure of synaptic plasticity in the rat hippocampus in response to glucocorticoid exposure, changes that may accompany or contribute to neuroanatomical, neurochemical, and behavioral changes observed in experimental models of type 1 diabetes.
The rat medial prefrontal cortex, an area considered homologous to the human prefrontal cortex, is a region in which neuronal structural plasticity has been described during adulthood. Some plastic processes such as neurite outgrowth and synaptogenesis are known to be regulated by the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM). Since PSA-NCAM is present in regions of the adult CNS which are undergoing structural remodeling, such as the hypothalamus or the hippocampus, we have analyzed the expression of this molecule in the medial prefrontal cortex of adult rats using immunohistochemistry. PSA-NCAM immunoreactivity was found both in cell bodies and in the neuropil of the three divisions of the medial prefrontal cortex. All cell somata expressing PSA-NCAM corresponded to neurons and 5' bromodeoxyuridine labeling after long survival times demonstrated that these neurons were not recently generated. Many of these PSA-NCAM immunoreactive neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex could be classified as interneurons on the basis of their morphology and glutamate decarboxylase, isoform 67 expression. Some of the PSA-NCAM immunoreactive neurons also expressed somatostatin, neuropeptide Y and calbindin-D28K. By contrast, pyramidal neurons in this cortical region did not appear to express PSA-NCAM. However, some of these principal neurons appeared surrounded by PSA-NCAM immunoreactive puncta. Some of these puncta co-expressed synaptophysin, suggesting the presence of synapses. Since the etiology of some psychiatric disorders has been related to alterations in medial prefrontal cortex structural plasticity, the study of PSA-NCAM expression in this region may open a new approach to the pathophysiology of these mental disorders.
Midbrain dopamine neurons are critical in mediating the rewarding effects of opiates in dependent rats, as well as modulating some manifestations of opiate withdrawal. Morphine is known to excite dopamine neurons and thereby facilitate forebrain dopamine transmission through inhibition of GABA neurons. Cholinergic neurons in the mesopontine laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei provide the principal source of excitatory cholinergic input to ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra pars compacta dopamine-containing neurons, via actions on midbrain muscarinic and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The present study hypothesized that a reduction in tonic cholinergic input via blockade of midbrain muscarinic receptors would reduce the pharmacological effects of morphine on forebrain dopamine release. Using in vivo chronoamperometry, alterations in morphine-evoked dopamine efflux were monitored at stearate-graphite paste electrodes implanted unilaterally in the nucleus accumbens and striatum of urethane (1.5 g/kg) anesthetized rats, following the pharmacological inhibition of ventral tegmental area/substantia nigra pars compacta muscarinic receptors. The facilitatory effects of morphine (2.0 mg/kg, i.v.) on accumbens and striatal dopamine efflux were markedly reduced by prior infusion of the non-selective muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (200 microg/microl) into the ventral tegmental area or substantia nigra pars compacta, respectively. These findings demonstrate that decreased activation of midbrain muscarinic receptors attenuates the excitatory effects of morphine on mesoaccumbens and nigrostriatal dopaminergic transmission.
We presently investigated the time-course of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and inducible nitric oxide synthase expression and content in the rat striatum up to 6 days after ischemia induced by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion, a condition that potentially allows functional recovery, with the aim to identify the cell types expressing these two enzymes and to correlate neuronal nitric oxide synthase and inducible nitric oxide synthase changes in order to verify whether and how these changes are related to tissue damage, motor-sensory performances and survival. Before and after surgery, the animals underwent neurological evaluation. The results demonstrated that the rats with a score &gt; or = 12 at the neurological evaluation 24 h after ischemia showed a significant increase in neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurones and absence of inducible nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive cells and survived up to the sixth day; conversely, the rats with a score &lt; 12 at the neurological evaluation 24 h after ischemia showed a progressive significant decrease in neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurones and appearance of inducible nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive cells and none of the rats survived up to the sixth day. Microglia cells were activated in both groups but only in the latter did these cells express inducible nitric oxide synthase. Measurement of the infarct area demonstrated that it occupied a similar territory in both groups of rats but in those with a score &lt; 12 the edema was more extended. In conclusion, we demonstrated that a neurotoxic insult such as ischemia can induce neuronal nitric oxide synthase expression in the neurones and that when neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurones increase in number, microglia activation is less extended, inducible nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive cells are absent, tissue damage reduced and the rats survive longer. Conversely, when there is a significant decrease of neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurones, microglia cells are intensely activated, inducible nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive cells appear and the animal survival is shortened.
Vagal afferents signal gastric acid challenge to the nucleus tractus solitarii of the rat brainstem. This study investigated whether nucleus tractus solitarii neurons in the mouse also respond to gastric acid challenge and whether this chemonociceptive input is modified by neuropeptide Y acting via neuropeptide Y receptors of type Y2 or Y4. The gastric mucosa of female mice was exposed to different concentrations of HCl or saline, excitation of neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarii visualized by c-Fos immunohistochemistry, gastric emptying deduced from the gastric volume recovery, and gastric lesion formation evaluated by planimetry. Relative to saline, intragastric HCl (0.15-0.35 M) increased the number of c-Fos-expressing cells in the nucleus tractus solitarii in a concentration-dependent manner, inhibited gastric emptying but failed to cause significant hemorrhagic injury in the stomach. Mice in which the Y2 or Y4 receptor gene had been deleted responded to gastric acid challenge with a significantly higher expression of c-Fos in the nucleus tractus solitarii, the increases amounting to 39 and 31%, respectively. The HCl-induced inhibition of gastric emptying was not altered by deletion of the Y2 or Y4 receptor gene. BIIE0246 ((S)-N2-[[1-[2-[4-[(R,S)-5,11-dihydro-6(6H)-oxodibenz[b,e] azepin-11-yl]-1-piperazinyl]-2-oxoethyl]cyclopentyl] acetyl]-N-[2-[1,2-dihydro-3,5 (4H)-dioxo-1,2-diphenyl-3H-1,2,4-triazol-4-yl]ethyl]-argininamide; 0.03 mmol/kg s.c.), a Y2 receptor antagonist which does not cross the blood-brain barrier, did not modify the c-Fos response to gastric acid challenge. The Y2 receptor agonist peptide YY-(3-36) (0.1 mg/kg intraperitoneally) likewise failed to alter the gastric HCl-evoked expression of c-Fos in the nucleus tractus solitarii. BIIE0246, however, prevented the effect of peptide YY-(3-36) to inhibit gastric acid secretion as deduced from measurement of intragastric pH. The current data indicate that gastric challenge with acid concentrations that do not induce overt injury but inhibit gastric emptying is signaled to the mouse nucleus tractus solitarii. Endogenous neuropeptide Y acting via Y2 and Y4 receptors depresses the afferent input to the nucleus tractus solitarii by a presumably central site of action.
Regarding regenerative strategies early post-ischemic therapeutic interventions might have a great impact on further pathophysiological cascades. To understand the early post-ischemic events we analyzed proliferation and neurogenesis as early as on day 3 after transient global ischemia in rats. Evaluations were performed not only in the dorsal hippocampus, where post-ischemic cell death develops selectively in the cornu ammonis, subfield 1 area, but also in distant areas like the ventricle wall and the striatum. Ischemia was induced by a transient two-vessel occlusion combined with hypotension. Animals received daily i.p. injections of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine until decapitation 1 or 3 days after ischemia. Immunohistochemistry was performed to detect 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine and co-labeling with cell-specific markers. Three days after ischemia, proliferation significantly increased throughout the forebrain. Early neurogenesis, detected by doublecortin labeling, on the other hand, was restricted to the neurogenic zones of the dentate gyrus and the lateral ventricle. Global ischemia reduced the overall number of doublecortin-positive cells in the dentate gyrus, particularly in the upper blade of the dentate gyrus. However, the number of newly generated doublecortin- and 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine double-labeled cells was unchanged. The vast majority of newly generated cells were microglia/macrophages, which invaded morphologically damaged as well as undamaged regions. Astroglial cells were activated all over the forebrain by the ischemic insult. They were co-localized almost completely with nestin in many areas, yet, sparsely proliferated after the insult. Interestingly, in locally defined zones we found nestin- and glial fibrillary acidic protein-signals clearly separated. In sham-operated animals, nestin could be detected in both neurogenic zones only without co-labeling with glial markers. In conclusion, during the first days after global ischemia, cell death of cornu ammonis, subfield 1-neurons was accompanied by a massive overall proliferation and activation of microglia/macrophages, a reduction of pre-ischemia existing doublecortin-positive precursors in the dentate gyrus and a re-expression of nestin in glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes.
To determine potential mechanisms contributing to ethanol-induced cognitive impairment, we examined acute effects of ethanol on hippocampal N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors and forms of synaptic plasticity thought to underlie memory processing. In the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices, ethanol partially inhibited N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-mediated synaptic responses at concentrations up to 180 mM. The block of synaptic N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors by 60mM ethanol occluded the effects of 10 microM ifenprodil, an agent that has relative selectivity for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors expressing NR1 and NR2B subunits. Ethanol did not occlude the effects of a low concentration of 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, an antagonist with less N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subtype selectivity. Recent studies indicate that ifenprodil and other NR2B-selective antagonists inhibit N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent long-term depression but not long-term potentiation. We found that ethanol reversibly inhibited long-term depression in a manner consistent with its effects on synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Ethanol also inhibited the induction of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent long-term potentiation, but the actions on long-term potentiation were complex and largely irreversible over the time course of our experiments. Furthermore, ethanol inhibited a form of long-term potentiation induced by very high frequency stimulation that does not depend on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. The effects of ethanol on both forms of long-term potentiation, but not on long-term depression, were at least partially reversed by block of GABA type A receptors with picrotoxin. These results indicate that pharmacologically relevant concentrations of ethanol exert preferential effects on a subtype of synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the CA1 hippocampal region. Inhibition of synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors appears to contribute strongly to ethanol-mediated long-term depression inhibition, but effects on long-term potentiation are complex, involving, at least partially, changes in GABAergic transmission.
Small molecule neurotransmitters, such as dopamine, have been shown to regulate cell cycles in the developing brain [Spencer GE, Klumperman J, Syed NI (1998) Neurotransmitters and neurodevelopment: Role of dopamine in neurite outgrowth, target selection and specific synapse formation. Perspect Dev Neurobiol 5:451-467; Ohtani N, Goto T, Waeber C, Bhide PG (2003) Dopamine modulates cell cycle in the lateral ganglionic eminence. J Neurosci 23:2840-2850] and may provide an alternative to traditional growth factors for the regulation of neurogenesis. Specifically, the dopamine D3 receptor appears to play an important role in neural development, and shows a persistent expression through adulthood in the proliferative subventricular zone [Diaz J, Ridray S, Mignon V, Griffon N, Schwartz JC, Sokoloff P (1997) Selective expression of dopamine D3 receptor mRNA in proliferative zones during embryonic development of the rat brain. J Neurosci 17:4282-4292]. Furthermore, pharmacological stimulation of D3 receptors promotes proliferation of adult subventricular zone cells, both in vitro [Coronas V, Bantubungi K, Fombonne J, Krantic S, Schiffmann SN, Roger M (2004) Dopamine D3 receptor stimulation promotes the proliferation of cells derived from the post-natal subventricular zone. J Neurochem 91:1292-1301] and in vivo [Van Kampen JM, Hagg T, Robertson HA (2004) Induction of neurogenesis in the adult rat subventricular zone and neostriatum following dopamine D3 receptor stimulation. Eur J Neurosci 19:2377-2387]. In earlier work, we have demonstrated the induction of cell proliferation in the subventricular zone of the adult rat brain accompanied by a dramatic 10-fold induction of neurogenesis in the neighboring neostriatum, following administration of the preferential D3 receptor agonist, 7-hydroxy-N,N-di-n-propyl-2-aminotetralin [Van Kampen JM, Hagg T, Robertson HA (2004) Induction of neurogenesis in the adult rat subventricular zone and neostriatum following dopamine D3 receptor stimulation. Eur J Neurosci 19:2377-2387]. Dopamine D3 receptors have also been found in the substantia nigra [Diaz J, Pilon C, Le Foll B, Gross C, Triller A, Schwartz JC, Sokoloff P (2000) Dopamine D3 receptors expressed by all mesencephalic dopamine neurons. J Neurosci 20:8677-8684], a region of the adult brain shown to exhibit ongoing cytogenesis and neurogenic potential [Lie DC, Dziewczapolski G, Willhoite AR, Kaspar BK, Shults CW, Gage FH (2002) The adult substantia nigra contains progenitor cells with neurogenic potential. J Neurosci 22:6639-6649; Zhao M, Momma S, Delfani K, Carlen M, Cassidy RM, Johansson CB, Brismar H, Shupliakov O, Frisen J, Janson AM (2003) Evidence for neurogenesis in the adult mammalian substantia nigra. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 100:7925-7930]. We have found that chronic intraventricular administration of 7-hydroxy-N,N-di-n-propyl-2-aminotetralin triggers a profound induction of cell proliferation in the rat substantia nigra and promotes the adoption of a neuronal phenotype in a proportion of these newly generated cells.
Domoic acid is a rigid analog of the neurotransmitter glutamate and a potent agonist of kainate subtype glutamate receptors. Persistent activation of these receptor subtypes results in rapid excitotoxicity, calcium dependent cell death and neuronal lesions in areas of the brain where kainate pathways are concentrated. To better understand responses to domoic acid induced excitotoxicity, microarrays were used to profile gene expression in mouse brain following domoic acid exposure. Adult female mice were subjected intraperitoneally to domoic acid at the lethal dose 50, killed and dissected at 30, 60 and 240 min post-injection. Total brain RNA from treated mice was compared with time-matched controls on Agilent 22K feature microarrays. Real-time PCR was performed on selected genes. For the 30, 60 and 240 min time points, 3.96%, 3.94% and 4.36% of the genes interrogated were differentially expressed (P-value &lt; or = 0.01), respectively. Rigorous filtering of the data resulted in a set of 56 genes used for trending analysis and K-medians and agglomerative clustering. The earliest genes induced consisted primarily of early response gene families (Jun, Fos, Ier, Egr, growth arrest and DNA damage 45) and the inflammatory response element cyclooxygenase 2. Some later responding genes involved glucocorticoid responses (Gilz, Sgk), cold inducible proteins (Cirbp, Rbm3), Map kinases (Map3k6) and NF-kappaB inhibition. Real-time PCR in male mice from an additional study confirmed the expression of several of these genes across gender. The transcriptional profile induced by domoic acid shared similarity with expression profiles of brain ischemia and other excitotoxins, suggesting a common transcriptional response.
A decrease in alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the hippocampus has been hypothesized to contribute to alterations in auditory gating and other behavioral impairments in schizophrenia. However, while both typical and atypical neuroleptics are routinely used in the therapeutics of schizophrenia, little is known about their effects on auditory gating or alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor expression particularly when they are administered for extended periods of time (which is common in the clinical setting). In the present study in normal rats, the residual effects of prior chronic treatment (90 or 180 days) with representative typical and atypical neuroleptics (oral haloperidol, 2.0 mg/kg/day; chlorpromazine, 10.0 mg/kg/day, risperidone, 2.5 mg/kg/day; or olanzapine, 10.0 mg/kg/day) on prepulse inhibition of the auditory gating response were investigated. The densities of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors were subsequently measured using [125I]-alpha-bungarotoxin autoradiography. The results indicated that none of the compounds significantly altered the startle amplitude or prepulse inhibition response either during drug treatment (day 60) or after 90 or 180 days of treatment (i.e. during a drug free washout). However, prior exposure to chlorpromazine, risperidone and olanzapine for 90 days resulted in modest but significant (P&lt;0.01) decreases in [125I]-alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites in some brain regions (e.g. posterior cortical amygdala). After 180 days of treatment, decreases in [(125I]-alpha-bungarotoxin binding ranging from approximately 12% (lateral dentate gyrus) up to 24% (e.g. CA1 hippocampal region) were evident in the risperidone group in 13 of the 36 regions analyzed while decreases associated with the other neuroleptics agents were still present, but not statistically significant. These data indicate that the commonly used atypical neuroleptic, risperidone is associated with time dependent and persistent negative effects on an important biological substrate of memory (i.e. the alpha7 nicotinic receptor), but that the magnitude of the deficits was not sufficient to impair auditory gating.
The inferior colliculus receives a massive convergence of inputs and in the mustached bat, this convergence leads to the creation of neurons in the inferior colliculus that integrate information across multiple frequency bands. These neurons are tuned to multiple frequency bands or are combination-sensitive; responding best to the combination of two signals of different frequency composition. The importance of combination-sensitive neurons in processing echolocation signals is well described, and it has been thought that combination sensitivity is a neural specialization for echolocation behaviors. Combination sensitivity and other response properties indicative of spectral integration have not been thoroughly examined in the inferior colliculus of non-echolocating mammals. In this study we tested the hypothesis that integration across frequencies occurs in the inferior colliculus of mice. We tested excitatory frequency response areas in the inferior colliculus of unanesthetized mice by varying the frequency of a single tone between 6 and 100 kHz. We then tested combination-sensitive responses by holding one tone at the unit's best frequency, and varying the frequency and intensity of a second tone. Thirty-two percent of the neurons were tuned to multiple frequency bands, 16% showed combination-sensitive facilitation and another 12% showed combination-sensitive inhibition. These findings suggests that the neural mechanisms underlying processing of complex sounds in the inferior colliculus share some common features among mammals as different as the bat and the mouse.
In the present study, we examined the molecular mechanism by which homocysteine causes neuronal cell apoptosis. We further investigated the mechanisms of melatonin's ability to reduce homocysteine-induced apoptosis. Consistent with its antioxidant properties, melatonin reduced homocysteine-induced lipid peroxidation and stimulated glutathione peroxidase enzyme activity in hippocampus of rats with hyperhomocysteinemia. Furthermore, melatonin treatment diminished cytochrome c release from mitochondria and reduced caspase 3 and caspase 9 activation induced by hyperhomocysteinemia. Chronic hyperhomocysteinemia also led to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage and subsequently DNA fragmentation. Treatment with melatonin markedly inhibited poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage and reduced DNA damage. Hyperhomocysteinemia caused an elevation of pro-apoptotic Bax levels while reducing anti-apoptotic protein, Bcl-2, levels. Daily administration of melatonin up-regulated Bcl-2 and down-regulated Bax levels. We propose that, in addition to its antioxidant properties, melatonin has the ability to protect neuronal cells against apoptosis mediated homocysteine neurotoxicity by modulating apoptosis-regulatory proteins in the hippocampus of rats.
To determine whether neural precursor cells have region-specific growth properties, we compared the proliferation, mitogenicity, and differentiation of these cells isolated from the embryonic day 16 rat forebrain and spinal cord. Neural precursor cells isolated from both regions were cultured in growth medium supplemented with epidermal growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, or epidermal growth factor+basic fibroblast growth factor. Under all three conditions, both neural precursor cell populations proliferated for multiple passages. While spinal cord-derived neural precursor cells proliferated moderately faster in epidermal growth factor-enriched growth medium, brain-derived cells proliferated much faster in basic fibroblast growth factor-enriched growth medium. When exposed to both epidermal growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor, the two neural precursor cell populations expanded and proliferated more rapidly than when exposed to a single factor, with brain-derived neural precursor cells expanding significantly faster than spinal cord-derived ones (P&lt;0.0001). Differentiation studies showed that both neural precursor cell populations were multi-potent giving rise to neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. However, neuronal differentiation from brain-derived neural precursor cells was greater than spinal cord-derived ones (11.95+/-5.00% vs 1.92+/-1.13%; passage 2). Further, the two neural precursor cell populations differentiated into a similar percentage of oligodendrocytes (brain: 8.66+/-5.85%; spinal cord: 7.69+/-3.91%; passage 2). Immunofluorescence and Western blot studies showed that neural precursor cells derived from both regions expressed receptors for basic fibroblast growth factor and epidermal growth factor. However, brain-derived neural precursor cells expressed higher levels of the two receptors than spinal cord-derived ones in growth medium containing epidermal growth factor+basic fibroblast growth factor. Thus, our results showed that neural precursor cells isolated from the two regions of the CNS have distinct properties and growth requirements. Identifying phenotypic differences between these neural precursor cell populations and their growth requirements should provide new insights into the development of cell therapies for region-specific neurological degenerative diseases.
Endogenous opioids in the spinal cord play an important role in nociception, but the mechanisms that control their release are poorly understood. To simultaneously detect all opioids able to activate the mu-opioid receptor, we measured mu-opioid receptor internalization in rat spinal cord slices stimulated electrically or chemically to evoke opioid release. Electrical stimulation of the dorsal horn in the presence of peptidase inhibitors produced mu-opioid receptor internalization in half of the mu-opioid receptor neurons. This internalization was rapidly abolished by N-methyl-D-aspartate (IC50=2 microM), and N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists prevented this effect. mu-Opioid receptor internalization evoked by high K+ or veratridine was also inhibited by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. N-methyl-D-aspartate did not affect mu-opioid receptor internalization induced by exogenous endomorphins, confirming that the effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate was on opioid release. We hypothesized that this inhibition was mediated by large conductance Ca2+-sensitive K+ channels BK(Ca2+). Indeed, inhibition by N-methyl-D-aspartate was prevented by tetraethylammonium and by the selective BK(Ca2+) blockers paxilline, penitrem A and verruculogen. Paxilline did not increase mu-opioid receptor internalization in the absence of N-methyl-D-aspartate, indicating that it does not produce an increase in opioid release unrelated to the inhibition by N-methyl-d-aspartate. The BK(Ca2+) involved appears to be a subtype with slow association kinetics for iberiotoxin, which was effective only with long incubations. The BK(Ca2+) opener NS-1619 also inhibited the evoked mu-opioid receptor internalization, and iberiotoxin prevented this effect. We concluded that Ca2+ influx through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors causes the opening of BK(Ca2+) and hyperpolarization in opioid-containing dorsal horn neurons, resulting in the inhibition of opioid release. Since mu-opioid receptors in the dorsal horn mediate analgesia, inhibition of spinal opioid release could contribute to the hyperalgesic actions of spinal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
The effects of intrahippocampal administration of nicotine and the neurosteroids pregnenolone sulfate and allopregnanolone on acquiring the lever-press response and extinction in a Skinner box were examined using voluntary alcohol-drinking rats. A free-choice drinking procedure that implies early availability of the alcoholic solution (10% ethanol v/v+3% glucose w/v in distilled water) was used. Alcohol and control rats were deprived of food and assigned at random to six groups. Each group received two consecutive intrahippocampal (dorsal CA1) injections immediately after 1-h of drinking ethanol and before the free lever-press response shaping and extinction session. The groups were: saline-saline; saline-pregnenolone sulfate (5 ng, 24 microM); saline-allopregnanolone (0.2 microg, 1.26 microM); nicotine (4.6 microg, 20 mM)-saline; nicotine-pregnenolone sulfate; nicotine-allopregnanolone. Blood alcohol concentrations were assessed the day before conditioning. The combination of the oral self-administration of ethanol and the intrahippocampal injection of nicotine deteriorated the ability to acquire the lever-press response. This effect was neutralized by intrahippocampal pregnenolone sulfate (negative modulator of the GABA(A) receptor complex), and it was not affected by intrahippocampal allopregnanolone (positive GABA receptor complex A modulator). Pregnenolone sulfate and allopregnanolone had no effects per se on lever-press acquisition, neither in alcohol-drinking rats nor in controls. Alcohol consumption facilitated operant extinction just as anxiolytics that act as positive modulators of the GABA receptor complex A receptors do, possibly reducing the anxiety or aversion related to non-reinforcement. This effect was increased by intrahippocampal nicotine.
The present study focused on functional coupling between human bilateral auditory cortices and on possible influence of right over left auditory cortex during dichotic listening of complex non-verbal tones having near (competing) compared with distant non-competing fundamental frequencies. It was hypothesized that dichotic stimulation with competing tones would induce a decline of functional coupling between the two auditory cortices, as revealed by a decrease of electroencephalography coherence and an increase of directed transfer function from right (specialized for the present stimulus material) to left auditory cortex. Electroencephalograph was recorded from T3 and T4 scalp sites, overlying respectively left and right auditory cortices, and from Cz scalp site (vertex) for control purposes. Event-related coherence between T3 and T4 scalp sites was significantly lower for all electroencephalography bands of interest during dichotic listening of competing than non-competing tone pairs. This was a specific effect, since event-related coherence did not differ in a monotic control condition. Furthermore, event-related coherence between T3 and Cz and between T4 and Cz scalp sites showed no significant effects. Conversely, the directed transfer function results showed negligible influence at group level of right over left auditory cortex during dichotic listening. These results suggest a decrease of functional coupling between bilateral auditory cortices during competing dichotic stimuli as a possible neural substrate for the lateralization of auditory stimuli during dichotic listening.
Multipolar neurons in the mammalian nervous system normally exhibit one axon and several dendrites. However, in response to an axonal injury, adult motoneurons may regenerate supernumerary axons. Supernumerary axons emerge from the cell body or dendritic trees in addition to the stem motor axon. It is not known whether these regenerating axons contain neurotransmitters for synaptic transmission at their terminals. Here, using immunohistochemistry for choline acetyltransferase, an enzyme that synthesizes acetylcholine, we demonstrate the emergence of cholinergic supernumerary axons at 6 weeks after a unilateral L5-S2 ventral root avulsion and acute implantation of the avulsed L6 ventral root into the adult rat spinal cord. Light microscopic serial reconstruction of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive arbors shows that these supernumerary axons originate from both autonomic and motor neurons. The supernumerary axons emerge from the cell body or dendrites, exhibit an abnormal projection pattern within the intramedullary gray and white matters, make frequent abrupt turns in direction, and form bouton-like swellings as well as growth cone-like terminals. Double labeling immunohistochemistry studies show that the choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive supernumerary axons co-localized with two proteins associated with axonal growth and elongation, growth-associated protein 43 and p75, the low affinity neurotrophic factor receptor. Our findings suggest that regenerating supernumerary axons selectively transport and store choline acetyltransferase, supporting the notion that supernumerary axons may develop functional and active synaptic transmission. Therefore, regenerating supernumerary axons may contribute to the plasticity in neural circuits following injury in the adult nervous system.
Neurons in substantia nigra pars reticulata express the messenger RNA for SK2 but not for SK3 subunits that form small-conductance, Ca2+-dependent K+ channels in dopamine neurons. To determine pathways for the activation of small-conductance, Ca2+-dependent K+ channels in substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons of rats and mice, we studied effects of the selective blocker of small-conductance, Ca2+-dependent K+ channels, apamin (0.01 or 0.3 microM). Apamin diminished the afterhyperpolarization following each action potential and induced burst discharges in substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons. Apamin had a robust effect already at a low (10 nM) concentration consistent with the expression of the SK2 subunit. Afterhyperpolarizations were also reduced by the Ca2+ channel blockers Ni2+ (100 microM) and omega-conotoxin GVIA (1 microM). Depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores did not change the afterhyperpolarization. However, we observed outward current pulses that occurred independently from action potentials and were abrogated by apamin. Apart from a faster time course, they shared all properties with spontaneous hyperpolarizations or outward currents that ryanodine receptor-mediated Ca2+ release from intracellular stores induces in juvenile dopamine neurons. Sensitization of ryanodine receptors by caffeine silenced substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons. This effect was abolished by the depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores. We conclude that SK2 channels in substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons are activated by Ca2+ influx through at least two types of Ca2+ channels in the membrane and by ryanodine receptor-mediated Ca2+ release from intracellular stores. Ryanodine receptors do not amplify small-conductance, Ca2+-dependent K+ channel activation by the Ca2+ influx during a single spike. Yet, ryanodine receptor-mediated Ca2+ release and, thereby, an activation of small-conductance, Ca2+-dependent K+ channels by intracellular Ca2+ are available for excitability modulation in these output neurons of the basal ganglia system.
The expression of growth-associated protein-43 has been related to axonal elongation and synaptic sprouting. Using the Northern blot analysis, we investigated the developmental changes of growth-associated protein-43 mRNA in the thalamus of macaque monkeys. The amount of growth-associated protein-43 mRNA was high at embryonic day 125, and decreased at postnatal day 1. It increased again at postnatal day 8, reached its peak value at postnatal days 50-70, and then decreased gradually until postnatal year 1. We previously reported that the amount of growth-associated protein-43 mRNA in the cerebral cortex decreased roughly exponentially during perinatal and postnatal periods and that it approached the asymptote by postnatal day 70 [Oishi T, Higo N, Umino Y, Matsuda K, Hayashi M (1998) Development of GAP-43 mRNA in the macaque cerebral cortex. Dev Brain Res 109:87-97]. The present findings may indicate that extensive synaptic growth of thalamic neurons continues even after that of cortical neurons has finished. We then performed in situ hybridization to investigate whether the expression level of growth-associated protein-43 mRNA was different among various thalamic nuclei. In the infant thalamus (postnatal days 70-90), moderate to intense expression of growth-associated protein-43 mRNA was detected in all thalamic nuclei. Quantitative analysis in the infant thalamus indicated that the expression levels were different between the nuclear groups that are defined by the origin of their afferents. The expression in the first order nuclei, which receive their primary afferent fibers from ascending pathways [Guillery RW (1995) Anatomical evidence concerning the role of the thalamus in corticocortical communication: a brief review. J Anat 187 (Pt 3):583-592], was significantly higher than that in the higher order nuclei. While moderate expression was also detected in the adult dorsal thalamus, the expression in the first order nuclei was almost the same as that in the higher order nuclei. Thus, the in situ hybridization experiments indicated that the transient postnatal increase in the amount of growth-associated protein-43 mRNA, which was shown by the Northern blot analysis, was mainly attributed to enhanced expression in the first order nuclei during the postnatal period. This may be a molecular basis for environmentally induced modification of thalamocortical synapses.
The optimal amount of endurance exercise required to elevate proteins involved in neuroplasticity during stroke rehabilitation is not known. This study compared the effects of varying intensities and durations of endurance exercise using both motorized and voluntary running wheels after endothelin-I-induced focal ischemia in rats. Hippocampal levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, insulin-like growth factor I and synapsin-I were elevated in the ischemic hemisphere even in sedentary animals suggesting an intrinsic restorative response 2 weeks after ischemia. In the sensorimotor cortex and the hippocampus of the intact hemisphere, one episode of moderate walking exercise, but not more intense running, resulted in the greatest increases in levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and synapsin-I. Exercise did not increase brain-derived neurotrophic factor, insulin-like growth factor I or synapsin-I in the ischemic hemisphere. In voluntary running animals, both brain and serum insulin-like growth factor I appeared to be intensity dependent and were associated with decreasing serum levels of insulin-like growth factor I and increasing hippocampal levels of insulin-like growth factor I in the ischemic hemisphere. This supports the notion that exercise facilitates the movement of insulin-like growth factor I across the blood-brain barrier. Serum corticosterone levels were elevated by all exercise regimens and were highest in rats exposed to motorized running of greater speed or duration. The elevation of corticosterone did not seem to alter the expression of the proteins measured, however, graduated exercise protocols may be indicated early after stroke. These findings suggest that relatively modest exercise intervention can increase proteins involved in synaptic plasticity in areas of the brain that likely subserve motor relearning after stroke.
Seizures represent the most common neurological emergency in ecstasy abusers; however, no study addressed whether (+/-) 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (&quot;ecstasy&quot;) per se might produce long-lasting alterations in brain excitability related to a pro-convulsant effect. C57 Black mice were treated with three regimens of (+/-) 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (5mg/kg x 2 for 1, 2 or three consecutive days). Following the last dose of (+/-) 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, during a time interval of 8 weeks, the following procedures were carried out: 1) cortical electroencephalographic recordings, including power-spectrum analysis; 2) administration of sub-threshold doses of kainate; 3) measurement of regional [(14)C]2-deoxyglucose uptake; 4) monoamine assay. We demonstrate that all mice pre-treated with (+/-) 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine showed long-lasting encephalographic changes with frequencies peaking at 3-4.5 Hz at the power-spectrum analysis. This is concomitant with latent brain hyperexcitability within selected limbic brain regions, as shown by seizure facilitation and long-lasting latent metabolic hyperactivity which can be unraveled by phasic glutamate stimulation. This study sheds new light into the brain targets of (+/-) 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine and discloses the occurrence of (+/-) 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced latent hyperexcitability within limbic areas, while it might provide a model to study in controlled experimental conditions limbic seizures and status epilepticus in C57 Black mice. Persistent changes produced by (+/-) 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine in limbic brain excitability might be responsible for seizures and limbic-related disorders in chronic (+/-) 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine abusers.
Corticothalamic axons from layer 5 of primary and secondary auditory and visual areas have large terminals that make multiple synaptic contacts on proximal dendrites of relay cells in higher order thalamic nuclei and have been termed &quot;driver&quot; inputs. The corticothalamic cells express mRNA for the presynaptic growth-associated protein-43, in the adult rat [Feig SL (2004) Corticothalamic cells in layers 5 and 6 of primary and secondary sensory cortex express GAP-43 mRNA in the adult rat. J Comp Neurol 468:96-111]. In contrast, ascending driver afferents to first order nuclei (e.g. retinal, inferior collicular, and lemniscal) lose growth-associated protein-43 as mature synaptic terminals are established. Levels of immunoreactivity for growth-associated protein-43 are compared for first and higher order visual (lateral geniculate and lateral posterior), auditory (ventral and dorsal divisions of the medial geniculate), and somatosensory (ventral posterior and posterior) thalamic nuclei. At one week postnatal, staining for growth-associated protein-43 is uniform throughout first and higher order thalamic nuclei. By three weeks and thereafter, staining is denser in the higher order than first order thalamic nuclei. Electron microscopy shows growth-associated protein-43 in profiles with characteristics of afferents from layer 5 in LP and medial geniculate nucleus and no such label in retinal afferents in lateral geniculate nucleus. In these nuclei, approximately 25% of the profiles with characteristics of cortical afferents from layer 6 have label for growth-associated protein-43. The superficial layers of the superior colliculus also show growth-associated protein-43 positive profiles with characteristics of terminals from cortical layer 5. Some growth-associated protein-43 positive terminals were also positive for GABA in the thalamic nuclei studied and in the superior colliculus. The data suggest that sensory afferents to first order thalamocortical relays become stabilized once mature synaptic patterns are established, but the higher stages of information processing involving higher order thalamic relays, via cells in cortical layer 5, retain plasticity related to growth-associated protein-43 in the adult.
The claustrum is a phylogenetically conserved structure, with extensive reciprocal connections with cortical regions, and has thus been considered important for sensory, motor, emotional, and mnemonic coordination or integration. Here, we show by in situ hybridization that the adult monkey claustrum is strongly positive for NETRIN-G2, a gene encoding a glycosyl phosphatidyl-inositol-linked membrane protein, which constitutes a subfamily with NETRIN-G1 within the netrin/UNC6 family. There is a conspicuous dorsal/ventral differentiation, where the label is stronger in the ventral claustrum. NETRIN-G2 positive neurons are not GABAergic, but rather correspond to claustrocortical projection neurons, as demonstrated by retrograde transport of Fast Blue from cortical injections and by double in situ hybridization for NETRIN-G2 and GAD67. Since NETRIN-G2 is known to be preferentially expressed in cortex, in contrast with the thalamically expressed NETRIN-G1, these results raise the possibility of some functional similarity in regulation of excitatory neural transmission in the claustrum and cortex.
The water channel aquaporin 4 (AQP4) is abundantly expressed in astrocytes. There is now compelling evidence that AQP4 may contribute to an unfavorable course in brain edema. Acute lead intoxication is a condition that causes brain damage preceded by brain edema. Here we report that lead increases AQP4 water permeability (P(f)) in astrocytes. A rat astrocyte cell line that does not express aquaporin 4 was transiently transfected with aquaporin 4 tagged with green fluorescent protein (GFP). Using confocal laser scanning microscopy we measured water permeability in these cells and in AQP4-negative cells located on the same plate. AQP4-expressing astrocytes had a three-fold higher water permeability than astrocytes not expressing AQP4. Lead exposure induced a significant, 40%, increase in water permeability in astrocytes expressing AQP4, but had no effect on P(f) in astrocytes not expressing AQP4. The increase in water permeability persisted after lead washout, while treatment with a lead chelator, meso-2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid, abolished the lead-induced increase in P(f). The effect of lead was attenuated in the presence of a calcium (Ca(2+))/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) inhibitor, but not in the presence of a protein kinase C inhibitor. In cells expressing AQP4 where the consensus site for CaMKII phosphorylation was mutated, lead failed to increase water permeability. Lead exposure also increased P(f) in rat astroglial cells in primary culture, which express endogenous AQP4. Lead had no effect on P(f) in astrocytes transfected with aquaporin 3. In situ hybridization studies on rat brain after oral lead intake for three days showed no change in distribution of AQP4 mRNA. It is suggested that lead-triggered stimulation of water transport in AQP4-expressing astrocytes may contribute to the pathology of acute lead intoxication.
The subcellular distributions and co-associations of the gap junction-forming proteins connexin 47 and connexin 32 were investigated in oligodendrocytes of adult mouse and rat CNS. By confocal immunofluorescence light microscopy, abundant connexin 47 was co-localized with astrocytic connexin 43 on oligodendrocyte somata, and along myelinated fibers, whereas connexin 32 without connexin 47 was co-localized with contactin-associated protein (caspr) in paranodes. By thin-section transmission electron microscopy, connexin 47 immunolabeling was on the oligodendrocyte side of gap junctions between oligodendrocyte somata and astrocytes. By freeze-fracture replica immunogold labeling, large gap junctions between oligodendrocyte somata and astrocyte processes contained much more connexin 47 than connexin 32. Along surfaces of internodal myelin, connexin 47 was several times as abundant as connexin 32, and in the smallest gap junctions, often occurred without connexin 32. In contrast, connexin 32 was localized without connexin 47 in newly-described autologous gap junctions in Schmidt-Lanterman incisures and between paranodal loops bordering nodes of Ranvier. Thus, connexin 47 in adult rodent CNS is the most abundant connexin in most heterologous oligodendrocyte-to-astrocyte gap junctions, whereas connexin 32 is the predominant if not sole connexin in autologous (&quot;reflexive&quot;) oligodendrocyte gap junctions. These results clarify the locations and connexin compositions of heterologous and autologous oligodendrocyte gap junctions, identify autologous gap junctions at paranodes as potential sites for modulating paranodal electrical properties, and reveal connexin 47-containing and connexin 32-containing gap junctions as conduits for long-distance intracellular and intercellular movement of ions and associated osmotic water. The autologous gap junctions may regulate paranodal electrical properties during saltatory conduction. Acting in series and in parallel, autologous and heterologous oligodendrocyte gap junctions provide essential pathways for intra- and intercellular ionic homeostasis.
Motor neurons to the slowly contracting extensor soleus muscle in behaving rats begin to fire tonically in the 2nd week after birth. In the adult, tonic firing becomes predominant and appears to arise from plateau potentials under monoaminergic control. In the present work, motor neurons to slowly contracting extensor soleus and rapidly contracting extensor digitorum longus, a physiological flexor muscle, were retrogradely labeled with fluorescent dextran and examined for immunoreactivity to 5-HT(2A) receptors in 1 and 2 week old and adult rats. No reactivity was detected at 1 week. At 2 weeks, reactivity was detected on 67% slowly contracting extensor soleus (16 of 24) and 19% extensor digitorum longus (11 of 57) motor neurons. In the adult, the intensity of staining was higher and the percentage of labeled motor neurons 79 for slowly contracting extensor soleus (34 of 43) and 31 for extensor digitorum longus (11 of 35). On slowly contracting extensor soleus motor neurons, labeling appeared more often on soma and dendrites than on dendrites only, whereas on extensor digitorum longus motor neurons, labeling appeared more often on dendrites only. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that serotonergic innervation contributes to the appearance and subsequent increase in tonic firing of rat slowly contracting extensor soleus motor neurons in postnatal development.
It has been demonstrated that the forebrain cholinergic system and the extracellular regulated kinase signal transduction pathway are involved in the mechanisms of learning, encoding, and storage of information. We investigated the involvement of the cholinergic and glutamatergic systems projecting to the medial prefrontal cortex and ventral hippocampus and of the extracellular regulated kinase signal transduction pathway in the acquisition and recall of the step-down inhibitory avoidance response in the rat, a relatively simple behavioral test acquired in a one-trial session. To this aim we studied by microdialysis the release of acetylcholine and glutamate, and by immunohistochemistry the activation of extracellular regulated kinase during acquisition, encoding and recall of the behavior. Cholinergic, but not glutamatergic, neurons projecting to the medial prefrontal cortex and ventral hippocampus were activated during acquisition of the task, as shown by increase in cortical and hippocampal acetylcholine release. Released acetylcholine in turn activated extracellular regulated kinase in neurons located in the target structures, since the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine blocked extracellular regulated kinase activation. Both increased acetylcholine release and extracellular regulated kinase activation were necessary for memory formation, as administration of scopolamine and of extracellular regulated kinase inhibitors was followed by blockade of extracellular regulated kinase activation and amnesia. Our data indicate that a critical function of the learning-associated increase in acetylcholine release is to promote the activation of the extracellular regulated kinase signal transduction pathway and help understanding the role of these systems in the encoding of an inhibitory avoidance memory.
Transplantation of bone marrow stromal cells improves animal neurological functional recovery after stroke. Astrocytes are known to provide structural, trophic and metabolic support for neurons. Thus astrocytes are critical for neural survival during post-ischemia. However, information on the effects of bone marrow stromal cells on astrocytic survival post-ischemia is unavailable. We investigated the influence of rat bone marrow stromal cells on rat astrocytic apoptosis and survival post-ischemia employing an anaerobic chamber. Our data indicate that rat bone marrow stromal cells reduce cell death and apoptosis, and increase the DNA proliferation rate in astrocytes post-ischemia. Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase/extracellular signal regulated kinase and phosphoinositide 3-kinase/threonine protein kinase pathways are involved in cell survival. Western blot showed that rat bone marrow stromal cells activate these two pathways in astrocytes post-ischemia, and upregulate total extracellular signal regulated kinase 1/2 and threonine protein kinase. Since astrocytes produce various neurotrophic factors, we performed reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction to investigate rat bone marrow stromal cells' effect on astrocyte growth factor gene expression post-ischemia. We observed that brain-derived neurotrophic factor, vascular endothelial growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor gene expression was enhanced by rat bone marrow stromal cell coculture. These data suggest that bone marrow stromal cells increase astrocytic survival post-ischemic injury. This protective function might involve the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase and phosphoinositide 3-kinase/threonine protein kinase pathways. Upregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, vascular endothelial growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor may also contribute to astrocyte survival.
Previous studies have generated controversy about the extent of co-localization between substance P- and catecholamine-containing neurons that project to the spinal cord. In earlier studies, estimates using immunofluorescence after colchicine have ranged from almost all, to almost none. We sought to resolve this issue by combining in situ hybridization and immunofluorescence. Catecholamine (A1 to A7, C1 to C3; tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive) neurons in the rat brainstem were examined to determine their content of mRNA for the preprotachykinin-A gene. In the A1 to A7 and the C1 to C3 cell groups, preprotachykinin-A mRNA was found only in substantial amounts in the C1-C3 cell groups. On average 20.9+/-0.9% (234/1120, n=3) of rostral C1 neurons contained preprotachykinin-A mRNA. Co-localization was also observed in C2 and C3 neurons to a similar extent. Retrograde tract-tracing with cholera toxin B subunit was used to identify bulbospinal neurons and 17.9+/-2.7% (96/529 cells) of the bulbospinal tyrosine hydroxylase-containing neurons of the rostral C1 cell group were found to contain preprotachykinin-A mRNA. In addition a new population of non-catecholaminergic bulbospinal preprotachykinin-A neurons is described in an area corresponding to the recently described caudal pressor area. To confirm that the preprotachykinin-A mRNA observed in cells in the medulla was converted to protein, dual immunofluorescence for fiber labeling at the confocal level was carried out. This confirmed colocalization of substance P and tyrosine hydroxylase in the intermediolateral cell column, but nowhere else, in a small number of cases. The results provide evidence for a much larger population of substance P/neurokinin A containing neurons in the brainstem than was previously suspected. Furthermore, many of these neurons are catecholaminergic and spinally projecting. The specific sympathetic outflow that these neurons influence remains to be determined.
Recent studies show that sympathetic nerves participate in immunomodulation. We investigated the effects of unilateral sympathectomy on recruitment of cells expressing kappa and lambda (kappa and lambda) light chains in the rat dental pulp. Superior cervical ganglion was removed in experimental rats (n=10) while control rats (n=8) received sham surgery. Following perfusion 18 days later, mandibular jaws were processed for immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. Sympathectomy results in recruitment of cells expressing kappa and lambda light chains into the dental pulp (P=0.005). Electron microscopy revealed these cells to be mainly plasma cells and Mott cells. We conclude that neural imbalance caused by unilateral sympathectomy recruits immunoglobulin producing cells in the dental pulp. Our results are in agreement with a model of immune regulation in which the sympathetic nervous system exerts a tonic regulatory effect over lymphocyte proliferation and migration.
This study was designed to examine the function of cellular prion protein and prion protein-like protein/Doppel, in transient ischemia-related neuronal death in the hippocampus. Two different lines of mice devoid of cellular prion protein, Zrch I Prnp(0/0) and Ngsk Prnp(0/0), were used. The former lacks cellular prion protein whereas the latter ectopically expresses prion protein-like protein/Doppel in the brain in the absence of cellular prion protein. Mice were subjected to 10 min-occlusion of the bilateral common carotid arteries with recovery for 14 days. Less than 10% of the pyramidal neurons in the CA1 subfield were degenerated in male and female wild-type mice. In contrast, more than half of the neurons were lost in male Zrch I Prnp(0/0) and Ngsk Prnp(0/0) mice. Such severe neuronal loss was also observed in female Ngsk Prnp(0/0) mice. However, female Zrch I Prnp(0/0) mice showed mild neuronal loss similar to wild-type mice. Flunarizine, a T- and L-type Ca(2+)-channel antagonist, significantly reduced the neuronal loss in female but not in male Ngsk Prnp(0/0) mice. These results indicate that loss of cellular prion protein renders hippocampal neurons susceptible to ischemic insult specifically in male but not female mice and the ectopic expression of prion protein-like protein/Doppel aggravates the ischemic neuronal death in female prion protein-null mice probably via overloading of Ca(2+)-dependent signaling.
Neurogenesis plays a role in many physiological (memory formation) and pathological (stroke, depression) processes. However the mechanisms of postnatal stem cell proliferation and neurogenesis are still poorly understood. We characterized early neurogenesis in vitro in rat organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. Proliferation was assessed by bromodeoxyuridine incorporation, neurogenesis by bromodeoxyuridine-double labeling with doublecortin or beta-III tubulin. We showed for the first time that in addition to the dentate gyrus organotypic hippocampal slice cultures include a second neurogenic zone: the posterior periventricle, which is a part of the lateral ventricle wall. This structure lining the stratum oriens contained Nestin+ precursors. We could identify morphological and functional differences between dentate gyrus and posterior periventricle precursor populations. Our data demonstrate that basic fibroblast growth factor treatment induced a fast but short-lasting neurogenic response in the dentate gyrus while the posterior periventricle showed a more pronounced and long lasting neurogenic effect of basic fibroblast growth factor. Thus two neurogenic zones with different neurogenic properties were identified in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures.
Y-receptor-knockout mice have become an important tool to elucidate specific physiological roles of individual Y-receptors. However, their phenotypes are not always confirmatory to results obtained by pharmacological investigations in vivo or in vitro. These discrepancies may, at least in part, be due to compensatory changes in the expression of remaining Y-receptor types. To determine whether deletion of individual Y-receptors results in altered mRNA expression and/or binding toward other Y-receptor types, we applied in-situ hybridization and radioligand-binding studies on brain slices of Npy1r-, Npy2r- or Npy5r-knockout mice. Significant changes were seen in Y1-receptor-deficient mice. Thus, Y2-receptor mRNA and (125)I-peptide YY(3-36) binding in the hippocampus proper were increased by up to 55% and 89%, respectively. Similar increases in (125)I-peptide YY(3-36) binding were observed in the caudo-dorsal extension of the lateral septum, an area heavily targeted by hippocampal projections and involved in Y1-receptor-regulated anxiety. Increased (125)I-peptide YY(3-36) binding and Y2-receptor mRNA levels were also observed in the medial amygdaloid nucleus. In contrast, (125)I-peptide YY(3-36) binding was reduced in the central amygdaloid nucleus. Y2-receptor mRNA in the intermediate part of the lateral septum was reduced by 42%. Only minimal changes were observed in Y2- or Y5-receptor-deficient mice. Our results demonstrate that compensatory changes in the expression of Y2-receptors occur in Y1-receptor-deficient mice. These adaptations are likely to contribute to changed physiological function. Thus, alterations in Y2-receptors have to be taken in account upon discussion of Y1-receptor function, especially in emotional aspects like anxiety and aggression, but also alcoholism.
Interactions between the intracellular domain of ligand-gated membrane receptors and cytoplasmic proteins play important roles in their assembly, clustering, and function. In addition, protein-protein interactions may provide an alternative mechanism by which neurotransmitters activate intracellular pathways. In this study, we report a novel interaction between the GABA rho1 subunit and cellular retinoic acid binding protein in mammalian retina that could serve as a link between the GABA signaling pathway and the control of gene expression in neurons. The interaction between the intracellular loop of the human GABA rho subunit and cellular retinoic acid binding protein was identified using a CytoTrap XR yeast two-hybrid system, and was further confirmed by co-precipitation of the human GABA rho subunit and cellular retinoic acid binding protein from baboon retinal samples. The cellular retinoic acid binding protein binding domain on the human rho1 subunit was located to the C-terminal region of human GABA rho subunit, and the interaction of the human GABA rho subunit with cellular retinoic acid binding protein could be antagonized by a peptide derived from within the binding domain of the rho1 subunit. Since cellular retinoic acid binding protein is a carrier protein for retinoic acid, we investigated the effect of GABA on retinoic acid activity in neuroblastoma cells containing endogenously expressed cellular retinoic acid binding protein. In the absence of the rho1 receptor, these cells showed enhanced neurite outgrowth when exposed to retinoic acid and GABA had no effect on their response to retinoic acid. In contrast, cells stably transfected with the human rho1 subunit showed a significantly reduced sensitivity to retinoic acid when exposed to GABA. These results suggest that the GABA receptor subunit effectively altered gene expression through its interaction with the cellular retinoic acid binding protein pathway.
Ovarian hormones regulate pyramidal cell synapse formation and excitability and interneuronal GABAergic tone in the CA1 region of the adult female rat hippocampus. The role of 17beta-estradiol in these effects is complex and appears to involve a subset of hippocampal interneurons, which express different calcium-binding protein and neuropeptide phenotypes and nuclear estrogen receptor alpha. We found that, in the hippocampus, nuclear estrogen receptor alpha-immunoreactive interneurons co-express neuropeptide Y, calbindin-D28k and calretinin but do not parvalbumin or cholecystokinin. Moreover, a proportion of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive interneurons co-expresses calbindin-D28k and calretinin. This pattern is similar in the presence or absence of 17beta-estradiol treatment in ovariectomized rats. We then used immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization to determine whether 17beta-estradiol treatment regulates expression of CA1 interneuronal phenotypic markers via nuclear estrogen receptor alpha activation. We found that 17beta-estradiol treatment of ovariectomized rats increased neuropeptide Y mRNA levels (25%) and the neuropeptide Y mRNA-associated grain density per cell (11%), as well as the number of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive cells (11%), predominantly in the pyramidal cell layer (stratum pyramidale). Treatment with CI628, a selective estrogen response modulator that acts as an antagonist for nuclear estrogen receptor, blocked 17beta-estradiol-induced increase of neuropeptide Y mRNA levels. 17beta-Estradiol treatment did not alter the number of parvalbumin, calretinin, and cholecystokinin immunoreactive cells, nor mRNA levels for parvalbumin and cholecystokinin. Therefore, the present study has identified neuropeptide Y expression as the main interneuronal phenotype that co-expresses nuclear estrogen receptor alpha and shown that neuropeptide Y is responsive to 17beta-estradiol in CA1 pyramidal cell layer. We suggest that 17beta-estradiol may regulate neuropeptide Y expression mediated by nuclear estrogen receptor alpha-dependent activation in a subset of hippocampal interneurons, and we speculate that subsequent neuropeptide Y release may indirectly contribute to regulate glutamate-dependent neuronal activity in the adult rat hippocampus.
The present investigation focused on the seizure-related phenotype of mice lacking one allele of brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Thresholds for producing seizures in brain-derived neurotrophic factor wild-type and brain-derived neurotrophic factor heterozygous mice were compared in several seizure models, including thresholds for electrically-induced clonic, tonic-clonic and 6 Hz limbic seizures, as well as seizures induced chemically by kainate, pilocarpine and pentylenetetrazol. In addition, the rate of amygdala kindling, as well as pre- and post-kindling seizure thresholds was determined. Seizure thresholds for clonic and tonic-clonic electrically induced seizures did not differ between brain-derived neurotrophic factor wild-type and heterozygous mice. However, heterozygous mice had higher thresholds for 6 Hz limbic seizures compared with wild-type mice. Heterozygous mice also required larger doses of kainate to produce limbic seizures. Somewhat surprisingly, heterozygous mice required significantly lower doses of pilocarpine to produce limbic seizures. However, heterozygous mice required a higher dose of pentylenetetrazol to induce twitches, but not clonic seizures, compared with wild-type mice. In addition, heterozygous mice required more current to elicit focal afterdischarges in the amygdala both pre- and post-kindling than did wild-type mice, and, heterozygous mice kindled more slowly than wild-type mice. The present findings provide additional support for the hypothesis that brain-derived neurotrophic factor is involved not only in normal excitability, but may also be involved in abnormal excitability such as occurs in seizure disorders and epileptogenesis.
Recent studies suggest that caspase-3-mediated mechanisms are essential for neuronal plasticity. N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Asp(OMe)-Glu(OMe)-Val- Asp(OMe)-fluoromethyl ketone (z-DEVD-fmk), a caspase inhibitor with predominant specificity toward caspase-3, has been shown to block long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices. Intrahippocampal infusion of a caspase-3 inhibitor to rats has been shown to significantly impair spatial memory in the water maze. The present work was designed to study whether i.c.v. administration of a caspase-3 inhibitor z-DEVD-fmk impairs learning in other tasks related to specific forms of memory in rats. The rats received bilateral injections of z-DEVD-fmk or N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Phe-Ala-fluoromethyl ketone (z-FA-fmk) (&quot;control&quot; peptide) at a dose of 3 nmol. Administration of z-DEVD-fmk significantly decreased the number of avoidance reactions in some blocks of trials in the active avoidance (shuttle box) learning, while z-FA-fmk had no effect as compared with intact rats. However, only a slight effect of the caspase inhibitor across the session was found. z-DEVD-fmk impaired development of some essential components of the two-way active avoidance performance, such as escape reaction, conditioned fear reaction, and inter-trial crossings. Measurement of caspase-3 activity in rat brain regions involved in active avoidance learning revealed most expressed z-DEVD-fmk-related inhibition of the enzyme activity (about 30%) in the fronto-parietal cortex. A similar effect was close to significant in the hippocampus, but not in the other cerebral structures studied. In primary cultures of cerebellar neurons z-DEVD-fmk (2-50 microM) inhibited caspase-3 activity by 60-87%. We suggest that moderate inhibition of caspase-3 resulting from the central administration of z-DEVD-fmk to rats may impair active avoidance learning. Taking into account previous data on the involvement of neuronal caspase-3 in neuroplasticity phenomena we assume that the enzyme may be important for selected forms of learning.
The most prominent progressive neurodegenerative movement disorder, Parkinson's disease, is attributed to selective loss of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, resulting in severe deficiency of dopamine. The homeo-domain gene, Pit x 3, is essential for proper development of midbrain dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and might be involved in midbrain dopaminergic survival pathways. The mGluR1-signaling downstream-effector phospholipase C beta 4 was identified in a suppression subtractive hybridization screen comparing wild-type and Pit x 3-deficient Aphakia midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Expression pattern analysis revealed that phospholipase C beta 4 was expressed in midbrain dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta and part of the ventral tegmental area, whereas expression of mGluR1alpha was predominantly observed in the more vulnerable midbrain dopaminergic neurons in the lateral substantia nigra pars compacta. However, clear expression of phospholipase C beta 4 in spared midbrain dopaminergic neurons of Aphakia mice located in the ventral tegmental area, indicated that induction and maintenance of phospholipase C beta 4 expression is Pit x 3-independent in these neurons. Furthermore, we report here a normal distribution of midbrain dopaminergic cell bodies and axonal projection to the striatum in phospholipase C beta 4-/- mice, indicating that signaling of phospholipase C beta 4 is not essential for the survival of midbrain dopaminergic neurons.
The endogenous ligand, anandamide activates at least two receptors on nociceptors; the excitatory vanilloid type 1 transient receptor potential receptor, the activity of which is indispensable for the development and maintenance of inflammatory heat hyperalgesia, and the inhibitory cannabinoid 1 receptor, the activity of which reduces that pathological pain sensation. Recent data are equivocal on whether increasing anandamide levels at the peripheral terminals of nociceptors in pathological conditions increases or decreases inflammatory heat hyperalgesia. Here, by using the cobalt-uptake technique we examined whether vanilloid type 1 transient receptor potential receptor activity evoked by 10 nM-100 microM anandamide is increased or decreased in inflammatory conditions. An inflammatory milieu for cultured rat primary sensory neurons was established by incubating the cells in the presence of the inflammatory mediators, bradykinin and prostaglandin E2. Anandamide, similarly to the archetypical vanilloid type 1 transient receptor potential receptor agonist, capsaicin induced concentration-dependent cobalt-uptake in a proportion of neurons. However, the potency of anandamide was significantly lower than that of capsaicin. While pre-incubation of cultures with bradykinin and prostaglandin E2 alone did not evoke cobalt-entry, the inflammatory mediators potentiated the effect of both capsaicin and anandamide. Application of the competitive vanilloid type 1 transient receptor potential receptor antagonist, capsazepine, or inhibitors of protein kinase A, protein kinase C or phospholipase C inhibited the anandamide-evoked cobalt-uptake both in the presence and absence of bradykinin and prostaglandin E2. These findings show that inflammatory mediators significantly increase the excitatory potency and efficacy of anandamide on vanilloid type 1 transient receptor potential receptor, thus, increasing the anandamide concentration in, or around the peripheral terminals of nociceptors might rather evoke than decrease inflammatory heat hyperalgesia.
We have reported that 1 month following acute (20mg/kg x 4) or subchronic (30 mg/kg/day x 7d) administration of the neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, there is an increase or decrease, respectively, in the extracellular level of striatal glutamate as determined by in vivo microdialysis [Robinson S, Freeman P, Moore C, Touchon JC, Krentz L, Meshul CK (2003) Acute and subchronic MPTP administration differentially affects striatal glutamate synaptic function. Exp Neurol 180:73-86]. The goal of this study was to determine the effects of treatment with l-dopa (15 mg/kg) for 21 days on striatal glutamate starting on day 8 after the first dose of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine was administered to mice. Following acute administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, the increase in extracellular striatal glutamate due to lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway was completely reversed to a level below that found in the vehicle-treated group after l-dopa treatment. Subchronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment resulted in a decrease in striatal extracellular glutamate that was reversed to the level close to that observed in the vehicle-treated group. There was no change in the density of nerve terminal glutamate immunolabeling associated with the synaptic vesicle pool, suggesting that the alterations in extracellular glutamate most likely originated from the calcium-independent pool. There was a similar decrease in the relative density of tyrosine hydroxylase immunolabeling, a marker for dopamine terminals, within the dorsolateral striatum in both the acute and subchronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated groups that had been administered l-dopa. There was a decrease in the relative density of immunolabeling within the dorsolateral striatum for the glutamate transporter, GLT-1, following acute 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment in the groups administered either vehicle or l-dopa. There was no change in GLT-1 immunolabeling following subchronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. The results demonstrate that the reversal in the extracellular level of striatal glutamate following l-dopa treatment in both the acute and subchronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated groups is not due to changes in either striatal dopamine nerve terminals or in the density of the glutamate transporter, GLT-1.
In the present study, using a systematic recording method and a variety of stimuli, we determined the proportion of responsive sites and their response features in the vocal control nucleus HVC of awake-restrained starlings, a species with multiple song types. Responsive sites were classified into three groups, according to the number of stimuli to which they responded. Sites in the three groups showed responses to individual-specific songs, with sites in the group that showed responses to only one stimulus responding mostly to a bird's own song. In comparison, very few sites exhibited responses to universal species-specific songs and to artificial nonspecific sounds. By contrast, data obtained in the same birds under urethane anesthesia show that, although the total proportion of responsive sites was similar, numerous responses to a universal species-specific song and to an artificial nonspecific pure tone could be observed.
Neurons within the posterodorsal medial amygdala of female rats are known to process vaginocervical stimulation received during mating through N-methyl-D-aspartate channel activation, conveying information to downstream hypothalamic cell groups that modulate neuroendocrine function. Stimulation of these neurons with an excitatory amino acid cocktail of glutamate, aspartate and glycine initiates 10-12 days of prolactin surge secretion that normally are observed only after the receipt of vaginocervical stimulation. Posterodorsal medial amygdala neurons responsive to vaginocervical stimulation also contain estrogen and progesterone receptors. The present experiment examined which downstream sites involved in prolactin secretion show c-fos expression following glutamate receptor activation within the posterodorsal medial amygdala and whether ovarian steroids influence cellular activation in these areas. Ovariectomized female rats implanted with unilateral cannulas directed at the posterodorsal medial amygdala received injections of estradiol benzoate and progesterone or oil before infusion treatment with either excitatory amino acid or control PBS. An additional group of estradiol benzoate+progesterone-treated females was infused with 1.0 microM glycine alone in PBS. Infusions were administered three times at 30 min intervals. FOS induction 90 min after infusion was determined immunohistochemically on the sides ipsilateral and contralateral to the infusion. Of the examined regions, excitatory amino acid treatment and hormone treatment induced three patterns of c-fos expression: 1) responses to both excitatory amino acid and hormone treatment [posterodorsal medial amygdala, medial preoptic area, ventrolateral ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis]; 2) responses to estradiol benzoate+progesterone treatment only [anteroventral periventricular nucleus and dorsomedial nucleus]; and 3) responses to excitatory amino acid only [arcuate nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus, and paraventricular nucleus]. These data identify possible circuits by which vaginocervical stimulation, via activation of posterodorsal medial amygdala glutamate-type receptors, initiates and coordinates a series of events within a larger neuroendocrine circuit important for pregnancy.
Perineuronal nets consisting of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans and hyaluronic acid are associated with distinct neuronal populations in mammalian brain. Whether neurons or glia cells produce these surface-associated chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan perineuronal nets has remained in question. In the present study, we observed perineuronal net-like structure by rat cortical neurons in dissociated culture using Wisteria floribunda aggulutinin, hyaluronic acid binding protein, and the antibodies recognizing chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans. The double labeling experiments showed that perineuronal net-like structure labeled with Wisteria floribunda aggulutinin was observed often at parvalbumin-positive neurons in dissociated cortical culture without glia. Perineuronal net-like structure was not seen at the early stage of culture, but they became visible concomitantly with neuronal maturation after longer culture. High magnification observation further demonstrated that Wisteria floribunda aggulutinin labeling on cortical neurons was seen as numerous puncta along surface of somata and proximal dendrites, but not axons and synapses. Perineuronal net-like structure on cultured neurons was also visualized using chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan-specific antibodies and hyaluronic acid binding protein. Double labeling study demonstrated that perineuronal net-like structure in cultured cortical neurons was composed of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans such as neurocan and phosphacan. The hyaluronidase treatment of live neurons abolished cellular labeling of hyaluronic acid binding protein and concomitantly diminished that of Wisteria floribunda aggulutinin. These results indicate that cultured cortical neurons are able to construct perineuronal net-like structure without glial cells.
Though both the amygdala and the serotonin system appear to play critical roles in regulating fear and anxiety, little is known regarding the organization of serotonergic inputs to the primate amygdala. The present study employed immunohistochemistry to determine the distribution of serotonin fibers in the macaque amygdala. The brains of three adult male Macaca fascicularis monkeys were prepared for histological analysis using a polyclonal antibody to serotonin. The macaque amygdala is densely innervated by serotonergic fibers and demonstrates a distinctive pattern of fiber distribution and density among the 13 nuclei and cortical areas. The highest density of 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactive fibers is observed in the central nucleus, the nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract, the paralaminar nucleus, the anterior amygdaloid area and a small region of the amygdalohippocampal area. Moderate fiber densities are found in portions of the basal, lateral, and intercalated nuclei. The lowest fiber densities are observed in the accessory basal, posterior cortical, anterior cortical and medial nuclei, and in subregions of the periamygdaloid cortex. The present study provides evidence that the serotonergic system can have substantial influence on the ongoing activity of the amygdaloid complex.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of tonic muscle pain evoked by injection of 5% hypertonic saline in the right brachioradialis muscle on the somatosensory sensation of laser-evoked heat pain and laser-evoked potentials. The heat pain pathways were studied in 9 healthy human subjects by recording the scalp potentials evoked by CO(2) laser stimuli delivered on four sites: the skin above the right brachioradialis muscle (ipsilateral local pain), the wrist area where muscle pain was referred in all subjects (ipsilateral referred pain), and two areas on the left arm symmetrical to both local and referred pain (contralateral local pain and contralateral referred pain). Laser-evoked potentials were obtained from 31 scalp electrodes before saline injection, during saline infusion (bolus injection with 0.3 ml saline infused over 20 s, followed by a steady infusion rate of 30 ml/h for the next 25 min), and 20 min after muscle pain had disappeared. While the early N1/P1 component (around 130 ms and 145 ms of latency after stimulation of the skin over the brachioradialis muscle and the wrist, respectively) was not affected by muscle pain, the amplitudes of the later vertex laser-evoked potentials (N2 latency of around 175 ms and 210 ms after stimulation of the skin over the brachioradialis muscle and the wrist, respectively; P2 latency of around 305 ms and 335 ms after stimulation of the skin over the brachioradialis muscle and the wrist, respectively) evoked from ipsilateral local pain, ipsilateral referred pain, and contralateral local pain sites were significantly decreased during muscle pain compared with the baseline recording, while they recovered after pain had disappeared. At the same stimulation sites, the rating of the laser-evoked pain sensation was reduced significantly during muscle pain as compared with the baseline and it recovered after pain had disappeared. On the contrary, muscle pain did not show any effect on both laser-evoked pain and laser-evoked potential amplitude when the contralateral referred pain site was stimulated. The muscle pain inhibitory effect on both heat pain sensation and laser-evoked potential amplitude is probably mediated by an ipsilateral and contralateral segmental mechanism which acts also on the referred pain area, while more general inhibitory mechanisms, such as a distraction effect or a diffuse noxious inhibitory control, are excluded by the absence of any effect of muscle pain on laser-evoked pain and laser-evoked potentials obtained from a remote site, such as the contralateral referred pain area. Since muscle pain induced by hypertonic saline injection is very similar to clinical pain, our results can be useful in understanding the pathophysiology of the somatosensory modifications which can be observed in patients with musculoskeletal pain syndromes.
Learning has been shown to induce changes in neuronal gene expression and to produce development of task-specific neuronal activity. The connection between these two features of neuronal plasticity remains of a great interest. To address this issue we compared distribution of c-Fos expressing and task-related neurons in the rat cerebral cortex following instrumental learning of appetitive lever-press task. The number of Fos-positive neurons was determined immunohistochemically in the retrosplenial and the motor cortex of naive (&quot;control&quot; group), newly trained (&quot;acquisition&quot; group) and overtrained (&quot;performance&quot; group) animals. A significant activation of c-Fos expression was observed in the neurons of the retrosplenial but not motor cortex in the &quot;acquisition&quot; group rats, as compared with the &quot;control&quot; and &quot;performance&quot; groups. In accordance with this c-Fos expression difference, the retrosplenial cortex of the trained animals contained significantly more neurons with lever-press-related activity than the motor cortex. Therefore, the two examined cortical areas showed a parallel between experience-dependent induction of c-Fos and development of task-related neuronal activity. These data support a notion that learning-induced activation of c-Fos is associated with long-term neurophysiological changes produced by training.
Facial nerve axotomy is a good model for studying neuronal plasticity and regeneration in the peripheral nervous system. We investigated in the rat the effect of axotomy on the different subunits of excitatory glutamatergic AMPA (GLuR1-4), NMDA (NR1, NR2A-D) receptors, post-synaptic density 95, vesicular glutamate transporter 2, beta catenin and cadherin. mRNA levels and/or protein production were analyzed 1, 3, 8, 30 and 60 days after facial nerve axotomy by in situ hybridization and immunohistofluorescence. mRNAs coding for the GLuR2-4, NR1, NR2A, B, D subunits of glutamatergic receptors and for post-synaptic density 95, were less abundant after axotomy. The decrease began as early as 1 or 3 days after axotomy; the mRNAs levels were lowest 8 days post-lesion, and returned to normal or near normal 60 days after the lesion. The NR2C subunit mRNAs were not detected in either lesioned or intact facial nuclei. Immunohistochemistry using specific antibodies against GLuR2-3 subunits and against NR1 confirmed this down-regulation. There was also a large decrease in vesicular glutamate transporter 2 immunostaining in the axotomized facial nuclei at early stages following facial nerve section. In contrast, no decrease of NR2A subunit and of post-synaptic density 95 could be detected at any time following the lesion. beta Catenin and cadherin immunoreactivity pattern changed around the cell body of facial motoneuron by day 3 after axotomy, and then, tends to recover at day post-lesion 60 days. Therefore, our results suggest a high correlation between restoration of nerve/muscle synaptic contact, synaptic structure and function in facial nuclei. To investigate the mechanisms involved in the change of expression of these proteins following axotomy, the facial nerve was perfused with tetrodotoxin for 8 days. The blockade of action potential significantly decreased GLuR2-3, NR1and NR2A mRNAs in the ipsilateral facial nuclei. Thus, axotomy-induced changes in mRNA abundance seemed to depend partly on disruption of activity.
Many patients display elevated levels of serum cortisol following acute ischemic stroke. Given that glucocorticoids may potentiate some forms of insult, these studies examined the effects of corticosterone or dexamethasone exposure on cytotoxicity following oxygen-glucose deprivation in the cerebellum, a brain region susceptible to stroke. In organotypic cerebellar slice cultures prepared from neonatal rat pups, 90-min of oxygen-glucose deprivation at 15 days in vitro resulted in significant cytotoxicity at 24-, 48-, and 72-h post-oxygen-glucose deprivation, as measured by uptake of propidium iodide. Exposure of cultures following oxygen-glucose deprivation to the antioxidant trolox (500 microM), but not to the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU486 (10 microM), completely blocked oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced cytotoxicity. Corticosterone (1 microM) or dexamethasone (10 microM) exposure alone did not significantly increase propidium iodide uptake above levels observed in control cultures. However, corticosterone or dexamethasone exposure after oxygen-glucose deprivation potentiated oxygen-glucose deprivation-mediated propidium iodide uptake at each time point. Trolox, as well as RU486, co-exposure of cultures to corticosterone or dexamethasone after oxygen-glucose deprivation abolished all cytotoxicity. In conclusion, these data demonstrated that glucocorticoid exposure modulated oxygen-glucose deprivation-mediated propidium iodide uptake, which likely involved glucocorticoid receptor activation and pro-oxidant effects.
Early life experience can have prolonged effects on neuroendocrine, autonomic, and behavioral responses to stress. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of early life experience on behavior during social defeat, as well as on associated functional cellular responses in serotonergic and non-serotonergic neurons within the dorsal raphe nucleus, a structure which plays an important role in modulation of stress-related physiology and behavior. Male Long Evans rat pups were exposed to either normal animal facility rearing or 15 min or 180 min of maternal separation from postnatal days 2-14. As adults, these rats were exposed to a social defeat protocol. Differences in behavior were seen among the early life treatment groups during social defeat; rats exposed to 180 min of maternal separation from postnatal days 2-14 displayed more passive-submissive behaviors and less proactive coping behaviors. Analysis of the distribution of tryptophan hydroxylase and c-Fos-like immunoreactivity in control rats exposed to a novel cage and rats exposed to social defeat revealed that, independent of the early life experience, rats exposed to social defeat showed an increase in the number of c-Fos-like immunoreactive nuclei in serotonergic neurons in the middle and caudal parts of the dorsal dorsal raphe nucleus and caudal part of the ventral dorsal raphe nucleus, regions known to contain serotonergic neurons projecting to central autonomic and emotional motor control systems. This is the first study to show that the dorsomedial part of the mid-rostrocaudal dorsal raphe nucleus is engaged by a naturalistic stressor and supports the hypothesis that early life experience alters behavioral coping strategies during social conflict; furthermore, this study is consistent with the hypothesis that topographically organized subpopulations of serotonergic neurons principally within the mid-rostrocaudal and caudal part of the dorsal dorsal raphe nucleus modulate stress-related physiological and behavioral responses.
8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase and Kin17 are proteins widely distributed and phylogenetically conserved in the CNS. 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase is a DNA repair enzyme that excises 7,8-dihydro-8-oxoguanine present in DNA damaged by oxidative stress. Kin17 protein is involved in DNA repair and illegitimate recombination in eukaryotic cells. The present study evaluates the effect of ovarian hormones on the expression of both proteins in the magnocellular paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis in female and male rat brains. In the paraventricular nucleus, ovariectomy induced a significant decrease in the number of 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase-positive nuclei as well as in their relative fluorescent intensity as compared with ovariectomized-estradiol treated and proestrous groups. Confocal microscopy observation demonstrated that oxoguanine DNA glycosylase protein is located in the Hoechst-dyed nuclei and cytoplasm in male and ovariectomized rats. Surprisingly, following estradiol administration to ovariectomized and proestrous rats, the 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase immunolabeling was observed in the nucleolus, the cytoplasm and the dendrites of cells, while Kin17 protein was always localized in the cell nuclei. In the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the number of 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase-positive nuclei during proestrous was significantly lower than the number obtained in males and ovariectomized rats and similar to the number of ovariectomized-estradiol-treated groups. In contrast to these observations, no significant differences were observed in the expression of kin17 protein. Our results suggest that estrogens differentially regulate the expression of 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase, but not that of Kin17 protein, in specific regions of the rat brain and that estradiol can translocate the 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase protein within nuclei and to other subcellular compartments.
The N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor-dependent activation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is necessary for induction of the long-term potentiation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor-mediated responses in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, a putative model for learning and memory. We analyzed the interplay among NMDA receptor, CaMKII and AMPA receptor during consolidation of the memory for an inhibitory avoidance learning task in the rat. Bilateral intra-CA1 infusion of the NMDA receptor antagonist D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5) or of the CaMKII inhibitor 2-[N-(2-hydroxyethyl)]-N-(4-methoxybenzenesulfonyl)] amino-N-(4-chlorocinnamyl)-N-methylbenzylamine) (KN-93) immediately after step-down inhibitory avoidance training hindered memory consolidation. Learning of the avoidance response induced the NMDA receptor-dependent translocation of alphaCaMKII to a postsynaptic density-enriched fraction isolated from dorsal CA1 and the autophosphorylation of this kinase at Thr-286. Step-down inhibitory avoidance training increased the quantity of GluR1 and GluR2/3 AMPA receptor subunits and the phosphorylation of GluR1 at Ser-831 but not at Ser-845 in CA1 postsynaptic densities. The intra-CA1 infusion of KN-93 and AP5 blocked the increases in GluR1 and GluR2/3 levels and the phosphorylation of GluR1 brought on by step-down inhibitory avoidance training. Our data suggest that step-down inhibitory avoidance learning promotes the learning-specific and NMDA receptor-dependent activation of CaMKII in the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus and that this activation is necessary for phosphorylation and translocation of AMPA receptor to the postsynaptic densities, similarly to what happens during long-term potentiation.
The successive stages of development from oligodendrocyte progenitor to mature oligodendrocyte have been investigated in detail by using stage-specific antibodies. However, no cell lines are available that show stepwise differentiation from oligodendrocyte progenitors to mature oligodendrocytes. Here we show the establishment of an immortalized oligodendrocyte cell line, OLP6, from adult transgenic rats harboring the temperature-sensitive simian virus 40 large T-antigen gene. The OLP6 cells had a fibroblastic morphology and continuously proliferated at 33 degrees C. They displayed growth arrest and multipolar morphology when they were cultured at 39 degrees C. They express the oligodendrocytic markers O4, 2'-3'-cyclic-nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase, galactocerebroside and second endothelial differentiation gene receptor-2 at 39 degrees C. The OLP6 cells underwent apoptosis upon serum withdrawal at 39 degrees C. Lysophosphatidic acid inhibited this apoptosis and promoted the expression of myelin basic protein. These results demonstrate that the activation of endothelial differentiation gene receptor-2 exerts anti-apoptosis and myelinogenesis effects on the OLP6 cells. Taken together, the OLP6 cells in the late oligodendrocyte progenitor stage can progress to the immature oligodendrocyte stage by shifting culture temperature. Furthermore, lysophosphatidic acid promoted the maturation of OLP6 cells in the immature oligodendrocyte stage. Such OLP6 cells should provide a potent model system for studying the precise mechanism involved in stepwise differentiation of oligodendrocytes.
Systemic administration of high doses of dexamphetamine induces a dopamine efflux that has its intracellular origin in both the vesicular, reserpine-sensitive dopamine pool and the cytosolic, alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine-sensitive, newly synthesized dopamine pool. It remains unknown whether locally administered dexamphetamine produces similar effects. Using a brain microdialysis technique that is combined with a microinjection needle, the contribution of the vesicular and cytosolic pools to the dopamine efflux induced by striatal injection of dexamphetamine was analyzed in rats. The transient striatal dopamine efflux induced by intrastriatal injection of dexamphetamine (1.0 microg/0.5 microl) was significantly reduced by systemic administration of reserpine (5mg/kg i.p., given 24 h earlier) or alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine (250 mg/kg i.p., given 2 h earlier). The effects of dexamphetamine on the striatal dopamine were nearly nullified by combined treatment with reserpine and alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine. The sum of the amounts of extracellular dopamine that was sensitive to either reserpine or alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine, was far greater than 100%, namely 146.1% of the basal dopamine level and 144.0% of the dexamphetamine-induced dopamine level. The present study indicates that both the vesicular dopamine pool and the cytosolic dopamine pool contribute to the transient increase of striatal dopamine efflux induced by intrastriatal injection of dexamphetamine. This study also suggests that striatally applied dexamphetamine can promote the redistribution of rat striatal dopamine from vesicles to the cytosol in vivo.
Glucocorticoids, released in high concentrations from the adrenal cortex during stressful experiences, bind to glucocorticoid receptors in nuclear and peri-nuclear sites in neuronal somata. Their classically known mode of action is to induce gene promoter receptors to alter gene transcription. Nuclear glucocorticoid receptors are particularly dense in brain regions crucial for memory, including memory of stressful experiences, such as the hippocampus and amygdala. While it has been proposed that glucocorticoids may also act via membrane bound receptors, the existence of the latter remains controversial. Using electron microscopy, we found glucocorticoid receptors localized to non-genomic sites in rat lateral amygdala, glia processes, presynaptic terminals, neuronal dendrites, and dendritic spines including spine organelles and postsynaptic membrane densities. The lateral nucleus of the amygdala is a region specifically implicated in the formation of memories for stressful experiences. These newly observed glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactive sites were in addition to glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactive signals observed using electron and confocal microscopy in lateral amygdala principal neuron and GABA neuron soma and nuclei, cellular domains traditionally associated with glucocorticoid immunoreactivity. In lateral amygdala, glucocorticoid receptors are thus also localized to non-nuclear-membrane translocation sites, particularly dendritic spines, where they show an affinity for postsynaptic membrane densities, and may have a specialized role in modulating synaptic transmission plasticity related to fear and emotional memory.
Endothelins play a role in the regulation of astrocytic functions in brain pathologies such as hyperplasia and neurotrophic factor production. The present study examined the effects of endothelins on production of neurotrophin-3, a member of the neurotrophin family of neurotrophic factors, in cultured astrocytes and rat brain. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR analysis of mRNA copy numbers showed that cultured astrocytes expressed comparable numbers of neurotrophin-3 and neurotrophin-4/5 mRNA copies to nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Endothelin-1 (100 nM) and Ala1,3,11,15-endothelin-1 (an endothelinB receptor agonist, 100 nM) caused a transient increase in neurotrophin-3 mRNA levels, but not in neurotrophin-4/5 levels, in cultured astrocytes. The increases in mRNA levels were accompanied with that in extracellular release of neurotrophin-3. The effects of endothelin-1 on neurotrophin-3 mRNA levels were reduced by BQ788, an endothelinB receptor antagonist. I.c.v. administration of 500 pmol/day Ala1,3,11,15-endothelin-1 increased mRNA and peptide levels of neurotrophin-3 in rat caudate putamen and cerebrum. On the other hand, neurotrophin-3 production in hippocampus was not affected by Ala1,3,11,15-endothelin-1. Immunohistochemical examination of Ala1,3,11,15-endothelin-1-infused rats showed that neurotrophin-3 was mainly expressed in glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes in caudate putamen and cerebrum. endothelin-induced increases in neurotrophin-3 expression in cultured astrocytes were inhibited by chelation of intracellular Ca2+ and PD98095 (an ERK inhibitor). These results suggest that endothelin is an extracellular signal that stimulates astrocytic neurotrophin-3 production in brain pathologies.
To determine factors that contribute to the learning deficits observed in individuals with fetal alcohol syndrome, we examined the effects of early postnatal ethanol exposure on forms of synaptic plasticity thought to underlie memory. Treatment of rat pups with ethanol on postnatal day 7 impaired the induction of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent long-term potentiation and abolished homosynaptic long-term depression in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices prepared at postnatal day 30. An N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent form of long-term potentiation induced by very high frequency stimulation could be induced in slices from ethanol-treated rats. Defects in long-term depression correlated with a diminished contribution of ifenprodil-sensitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors to synaptic transmission and defects in a spontaneous alternation behavioral task. Rats exposed to ethanol on postnatal day 7 also exhibited diminished sensitivity of synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors to block by ethanol at postnatal day 30 and decreased behavioral sedation to systemic ethanol injections. These results indicate that changes in synaptic plasticity and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor function are likely to provide a neural substrate for the cognitive and behavioral changes that follow developmental ethanol exposure.
Cajal-Retzius cells and their secreted product reelin are essential for the lamination of the cerebral cortex. In all species studied to date Cajal-Retzius cells form a transient neuronal population that almost completely disappears from the neocortex postnatally. Recently, in the hippocampal formation of adult domestic pig, we have found a large calretinin- and reelin-immunoreactive cell population that morphologically corresponded to Cajal-Retzius cells. In the present study, we examined calretinin- and reelin-immunoreactive neurons in layer I of the prefrontal, temporal, parietal and occipital neocortical areas of newborn, young adult and adult domestic pigs. Large numbers of bipolar or fusiform calretinin-positive cells were found in the upper half of layer I in all examined age groups. The morphology of these neurons resembled that of the Cajal-Retzius cells. Layer I was occupied by a dense calretinin-positive axonal plexus that was similar to the previously described axons of Cajal-Retzius cells in other species. In a similar location, where calretinin-positive cells occurred in layer I, large numbers of reelin-immunoreactive cells were found in all examined age groups. In addition, reelin colocalized with calretinin in layer I neurons. The number of calretinin and reelin-positive neurons decreased from 1 day to one year, but calretinin-positive Cajal-Retzius-type cells still comprised a remarkable large population in 12-month-old animals. Correlated light and electron microscopic examination of calretinin-labeled Cajal-Retzius-type cells indicated that these cells are integrated in the synaptic circuitry of the neocortex. Our results suggest that Cajal-Retzius cells do not disappear inevitably from the mature neocortex in all mammalian species. The function of this cell type is not known, but late persisting Cajal-Retzius-type cells in the domestic pig provide an opportunity to study their neuronal connections and the possible role of reelin in plasticity and regeneration of neocortex.
This study characterizes changes occurring in the central histaminergic system associated with ischemia-reperfusion pathology in the rat. Specifically, after a postocclusion time period of 48 h, we have analyzed histamine H(1) receptor mRNA expression, histamine H(2) receptor protein amount and binding densities, and histamine H(3) receptor mRNA expression and binding densities in brain regions that have been suggested to be selectively vulnerable to transient global ischemia, i.e. hippocampus, thalamus, caudate-putamen, and cerebral cortex. We found an increase in H(1) receptor mRNA expression in the caudate-putamen: given that ischemia reduces glucose uptake and H(1) receptor activation has been shown to decrease this effect, an increase of expression levels may result in mitigating tissue damage due to energy failure observed in ischemia. A decrease in H(2) receptor binding densities in the caudate-putamen was also observed; the ischemia-induced decrease in H(2) receptor protein was also detectable by Western blot analysis. This phenomenon may underlie the previously reported ischemia induced striatal dopamine release. H(3) receptor mRNA expression was increased in the caudate putamen of the postischemic brain but was decreased in the globus pallidus and the thalamus; in association with this, H(3) receptor binding densities were increased in the cortex, caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, and hippocampus. The upregulation of H(3) receptor ligand binding may be involved in the previously reported continuous neuronal histamine release. Our data suggest that central histamine receptor expression and ligand binding are altered in brain ischemia in distinct areas, and may participate in neuroprotection and/or ischemia-associated neuronal damage.
Extracellular-regulated kinases play a fundamental role in several neuroplasticity processes. In order to test whether endogenous beta-amyloid peptides play a role in the activation of extracellular-regulated kinase, we investigated the Rap1-extracellular-regulated kinase pathway in PC12 cells expressing human beta-amyloid precursor protein containing familial Alzheimer's disease mutations. In PC12 cells transfected with mutant human beta-amyloid precursor proteins that lead to higher levels of endogenous beta-amyloid, we observed an up-regulation of phospho-extracellular-regulated kinase and higher levels of activity-induced cAMP response element-directed gene expression. These results suggest that moderate levels of endogenous beta-amyloid peptides stimulate cAMP response element-directed gene expression. This stimulation was via a Rap1/MEK/extracellular-regulated kinase signaling pathway, as it was blocked by inhibition of Rap1 and MEK activities, and it requires beta-amyloid precursor protein cleavage at the gamma-site as it was abolished by a gamma-secretase inhibitor. Interestingly, in agreement with the previous observations, micromolar levels of extracellular fibrillar beta-amyloid blocked the cAMP response element-regulated gene expression stimulated by potassium and forskolin. This indicates that beta-amyloid can provoke different responses on cAMP response element-directed gene expression, such that low beta-amyloid levels may play a physiological role favoring synaptic plasticity under normal conditions while it would inhibit this mechanism under pathological conditions.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide mRNA was discovered in the rat striatum following cocaine and amphetamine administration. Since both psychostimulants elicit memory-related effects, localization of cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide in the hippocampal formation may have functional importance. Previous studies demonstrated different cellular localizations of cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide in humans and in rodents. Mossy cells were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-positive in the human dentate gyrus, whereas granule cells contained this peptide in the rat. In the present study, the localization of cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide was examined using immunohistochemistry in the hippocampal formation of the rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta), the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) and in the tree shrew (Tupaia belangeri). In these species principal neurons of the hippocampal formation were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunoreactive. In both monkeys and tree shrews, mossy cells of the hilus were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-positive whereas granule cells of the dentate gyrus were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-negative. The dense cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunoreactive axonal plexus of the associational pathway outlined the inner one-third of the dentate molecular layer. In the hippocampus of the tree shrew and marmoset monkey, a subset of CA3 pyramidal cells were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunoreactive. In the marmoset monkey, cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript labeling was found only in layer V pyramidal cells of the entorhinal cortex, while in the rhesus monkey, pyramidal cells of layers II and III were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunopositive. Our results show that cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript positive neurons in the dentate gyrus of non-human primates are similar to that of the human. Furthermore, in the hippocampal formation of the tree shrew similar cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunoreactive cell-types were observed as in monkeys, supporting their evolutionary relationship with primates. Mossy cells and granule cells are members of a mutual excitatory intrahippocampal circuitry, therefore cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunoreactivity of these neurons in primates and rodents suggests that psychostimulants cocaine and amphetamine may induce memory-related effects at different points of the same excitatory circuitry in the hippocampal formation.
Hypobaric hypoxia is known to impair muscular coordination. It is not known whether hypobaric hypoxia causes any damage to the Purkinje neurons which may be responsible for impairment of muscular coordination. Expression of ionotropic glutamate receptors N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit 1, amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid GluR2/3, calcium binding proteins and nitric oxide synthases in the Purkinje neurons was examined in rats exposed to hypobaric hypoxia. The mRNA expression of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit 1, GluR2, GluR3 and nitric oxide synthases [neuronal, endothelial and inducible] was upregulated at 3 h peaking at 24 h after the exposure. This was sustained up to 3 days; thereafter, it was comparable to the controls. Immunohistochemical analysis confirmed a marked expression of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit 1 and GluR2/3 at the above time intervals. Immunoexpression of calbindin-D28k (calbindin) and parvalbumin was intense in the soma of Purkinje neurons in the control rats. It was, however, drastically downregulated up to 3 days after exposure. At 3 days the neuronal dendrites showed intense expression of calbindin which returned to control levels at 7 days. Expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and inducible nitric oxide synthase was markedly upregulated from 3 h to 3 days whereas endothelial nitric oxide synthase expression, localized in the blood vessels and Purkinje neurons, remained elevated up to 24 h after the exposure. A progressive darkening of the Purkinje neuron cell bodies was observed at ultrastructural level up to 3 days but degenerating cells were not observed. A salient alteration was the dilation and stacking of smooth endoplasmic reticulum in the dendrites up to 14 days after the exposure. The present results suggest that hypobaric hypoxia leads to overexpression of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit 1 and GluR2/3 in Purkinje neurons that may be responsive to altered calcium levels as manifested by decreased expression of calcium binding proteins. This together with excess nitric oxide production may have led to transient ultrastructural changes. We propose that the functions of the Purkinje neurons may be altered in response to an acute exposure to hypobaric hypoxia resulting in impairment of motor coordination.
We have previously shown that following unilateral nodose ganglionectomy, [125I] CGP42112 binds to a non-angiotensin II (Ang II) related binding site in rat dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve, ambiguus nucleus and nucleus of the solitary tract. Furthermore, this up-regulated binding site localizes with activated microglia. Given that some tetracyclines may inhibit microglia activation in brain, we examined the effect of minocycline treatment on the binding of [125I] CGP42112 and [3H] PK11195 (an established radioligand for microglia), as well as OX-42 immunoreactivity (an immunomarker for activated microglia), following nodose ganglionectomy. Male Wistar Kyoto rats underwent unilateral nodose ganglionectomy or sham operation and were treated with saline or minocycline (50 mg/kg i.p.) 12 h before surgery and twice daily after surgery (each 50mg/kg i.p.) for 3 days. Subsequent to nodose ganglionectomy, [125I] CGP42112 binding (insensitive to PD123319 or Ang II) was increased approximately two-fold in the ipsilateral nucleus of the solitary tract and was also induced in the ipsilateral dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve and ambiguus nucleus of saline-treated rats. Treatment with minocycline reduced this non-angiotensin II [125I] CGP42112 binding (40-50% reduction) in the nucleus of the solitary tract, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve and ambiguus nucleus. Analogous experiments using [3H] PK11195 also revealed up-regulated binding in the ipsilateral nucleus of the solitary tract ( approximately 205%), dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (approximately 80%) and ambiguus nucleus (approximately 210%) of saline-treated rats following nodose ganglionectomy, which was reduced by 40-100% with minocycline treatment. Immunoreactivity to OX-42 confirmed an increase in microglia activation and accumulation of macrophages in these brain stem nuclei following nodose ganglionectomy, which was also attenuated following treatment with minocycline. These data demonstrate that non-Ang II [125I] CGP42112 binding following nodose ganglionectomy is attenuated by minocycline treatment. This minocycline-induced effect was associated with reduced activation of microglia and an apparent reduction in the number of macrophages in the abovementioned nuclei. This evidence suggests that a non-Ang II [125I] CGP42112 binding site is located on, or associated with, activated microglia and macrophages, providing a useful tool with which to quantitate the neuroprotective effects of centrally acting anti-inflammatory compounds.
A comprehensive three-dimensional digital atlas database of the C57BL/6J mouse brain was developed based on magnetic resonance microscopy images acquired on a 17.6-T superconducting magnet. By using both manual tracing and an atlas-based semi-automatic segmentation approach, T2-weighted magnetic resonance microscopy images of 10 adult male formalin-fixed, excised C57BL/6J mouse brains were segmented into 20 anatomical structures. These structures included the neocortex, hippocampus, amygdala, olfactory bulbs, basal forebrain and septum, caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, thalamus, hypothalamus, central gray, superior colliculi, inferior colliculi, the rest of midbrain, cerebellum, brainstem, corpus callosum/external capsule, internal capsule, anterior commissure, fimbria, and ventricles. The segmentation data were formatted and stored into a database containing three different atlas types: 10 single-specimen brain atlases, an average brain atlas and a probabilistic atlas. Additionally, quantitative group information, such as variations in structural volume, surface area, magnetic resonance microscopy image intensity and local geometry, were computed and stored as an integral part of the database. The database augments ongoing efforts with other high priority strains as defined by the Mouse Phenome Database focused on providing a quantitative framework for accurate mapping of functional, genetic and protein expression patterns acquired by a myriad of technologies and imaging modalities.
Nutritional deficiencies associated with long-term ethanol consumption may cause neuronal damage in ethanol-dependent individuals. Thiamine deficiency, in particular, is thought to contribute to ethanol-associated cerebellar degeneration, although damage may occur in adequately nourished alcoholics. Thus, the present study examined the effects of thiamine depletion and ethanol exposure on cytotoxicity in rat cerebellum. Organotypic cerebellar slice cultures were treated starting at 25 days in vitro with 100 mM ethanol for 11 days or 10 days followed by a 24-h withdrawal period. This exposure paradigm has previously been shown in hippocampal slice cultures to result in spontaneous cytotoxicity upon ethanol withdrawal. Additional cerebellar cultures were exposed to the thiamine depleting agent pyrithiamine (10-500 microM) for 10 or 11 days, some in the presence of ethanol exposure or withdrawal. Other cultures were co-exposed to thiamine (1-100 microM), 500 microM pyrithiamine, and ethanol for 10 or 11 days. The results demonstrated that neither 11-day ethanol treatment nor withdrawal from 10-day exposure significantly increased cerebellar cytotoxicity, as measured by propidium iodide fluorescence. The 11-day treatment with 100 or 500 microM pyrithiamine significantly increased propidium iodide fluorescence approximately 21% above levels observed in control tissue. Cultures treated with both ethanol (11 days or 10 days plus withdrawal) and 500 microM pyrithiamine displayed a marked increase in cytotoxicity approximately 60-90% above levels observed in control cultures. Pyrithiamine and ethanol-induced cytotoxicity was prevented in cultures co-exposed to thiamine (10-100 microM) for the duration of pyrithiamine treatment. Findings from this report suggest that the cerebellum may be more sensitive to the toxic effects of thiamine deficiency, as compared with alcohol withdrawal, associated with alcohol dependence.
TRPV1 gene disruption results in a loss of capsaicin and proton responsiveness, but has minimal effects on heat-induced nocifensive behavior, suggesting that sensory transduction of heat is independent of TRPV1. TRPV3, another heat-activated ion channel but insensitive to capsaicin, was shown to be expressed in keratinocytes as well as in sensory neurons projecting to the skin. Recently, 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate was introduced as a TRPV3 agonist, but its selectivity was questioned by showing that it activated recombinant TRPV1 and TRPV2 as well. We used the isolated mouse skin-saphenous nerve preparation and whole-cell patch-clamping of cultured dorsal root ganglia neurons from TRPV1-/- and wildtype mice. We found no phenotypic differences between the heat responses of polymodal C-fibers, whereas cultured dorsal root ganglia neurons of TRPV1-/- hardly showed any heat-activated currents. Only C-fibers of wildtype but not TRPV1-/- mice were clearly sensitized to heat by 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate 10 and 100 microM; heat-activated current in wildtype neurons was only facilitated at 100 microM. Noxious heat-induced calcitonin gene-related peptide release showed clear deficits (&lt;50%) in TRPV1 deficient skin, but the stimulated calcitonin gene-related peptide release from the isolated skull dura was unaffected. In both models, 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate was able to potentiate the heat response (46 degrees C, 5 min) in a concentration-dependent manner, again, only in wildtype but not TRPV1-/- mice, suggesting that TRPV2/3 are not involved in this sensitization to heat. The results further suggest that TRPV1 is not responsible for the normal heat response of native nociceptors but plays the essential role in thermal sensitization and a prominent one in controlling dermal calcitonin gene-related peptide release, i.e. neurogenic inflammation.
Chronic stress affects brain areas involved in learning and emotional responses. These alterations have been related with the development of cognitive deficits in major depression. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of chronic immobilization stress on the auditory and visual mesencephalic regions in the rat brain. We analyzed in Golgi preparations whether stress impairs the neuronal morphology of the inferior (auditory processing) and superior colliculi (visual processing). Afterward, we examined the effect of stress on acoustic and visual conditioning using an avoidance conditioning test. We found that stress induced dendritic atrophy in inferior colliculus neurons and did not affect neuronal morphology in the superior colliculus. Furthermore, stressed rats showed a stronger impairment in acoustic conditioning than in visual conditioning. Fifteen days post-stress the inferior colliculus neurons completely restored their dendritic structure, showing a high level of neural plasticity that is correlated with an improvement in acoustic learning. These results suggest that chronic stress has more deleterious effects in the subcortical auditory system than in the visual system and may affect the aversive system and fear-like behaviors. Our study opens a new approach to understand the pathophysiology of stress and stress-related disorders such as major depression.
Classical eyeblink conditioning has been known to depend critically on the cerebellum. Apparently consistent with this, glutamate receptor subunit delta2 null mutant mice, which have serious morphological and functional deficiencies in the cerebellar cortex, are severely impaired in delay paradigm. However, these mutant mice successfully learn in trace paradigm, even in '0-trace paradigm,' in which the unconditioned stimulus starts just after the conditioned stimulus terminates. Our previous studies revealed that the hippocampus and the muscarinic acetylcholine receptors play crucial roles in 0-trace paradigm in glutamate receptor subunit delta2 null mutant mice unlike in wild-type mice, suggesting a large contribution of the forebrain to 0-trace conditioning in this type of mutant mice. In the present study, we investigated the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in 0-trace eyeblink conditioning in glutamate receptor subunit delta2 null mutant mice. Mice were injected intraperitoneally with the noncompetitive N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist (+)MK-801 (0.1mg/kg) or saline, and conditioned with 350-ms tone conditioned stimulus followed by 100-ms periorbital shock unconditioned stimulus. Glutamate receptor subunit delta2 null mutant mice that received (+)MK-801 injection exhibited a severe impairment in acquisition of the conditioned response, compared with the saline-injected glutamate receptor subunit delta2 null mutant mice. In contrast, wild-type mice were not impaired in acquisition of 0-trace conditioned response by (+)MK-801 injection. After the injection solution was changed from (+)MK-801 to saline, glutamate receptor subunit delta2 null mutant mice showed a rapid and partial recovery of performance of the conditioned response. On the other hand, when the injection solution was changed from saline to (+)MK-801, glutamate receptor subunit delta2 null mutant mice showed a marked impairment in expression of the pre-acquired conditioned response, whereas impairment of the expression was small in wild-type mice. Injection of (+)MK-801 had no significant effects on spontaneous eyeblink frequency or startle eyeblink frequency to the tone conditioned stimulus in either glutamate receptor subunit delta2 null mutant mice or wild-type mice. These results suggest that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors play critical roles both in acquisition and expression of the conditioned response in 0-trace eyeblink conditioning in glutamate receptor subunit delta2 null mutant mice.
Gangliosides, sialic acid-containing glycosphingo-lipids, are enriched in the mammalian nervous system. Since mutant mice with disrupted beta1,4-N-acetylgalactosaminyl-transferase (GM2/GD2 synthase) were generated, there have been several studies on the pathology of the mutant mice, i.e. mild functional disorders and Wallerian degeneration in the peripheral nervous system. To further analyze the chronological alteration in the mutant mice, we examined the peripheral and CNS mainly with morphological approaches, such as electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry. Accordingly with the sensory dysfunction, neural degeneration, glial proliferation and synaptic remodeling in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord were found in adult mice. Thick astrocytic processes with densely packed glial filaments were extended among the neuropils and around blood vessels. Morphological changes in the synaptic vesicles and modes of synaptic contacts with central terminals were detected, suggesting synaptic remodeling following the degeneration. These results suggest that complex gangliosides are essential in the maintenance of integrity in architecture and function of the nervous system, lack of which results in neural degeneration in a sensory nerve-dominant manner.
Stroke-induced lesions of the insular cortex in the brain have been linked to autonomic dysfunction (sympathoexcitation) leading to arrhythmogenesis and sudden cardiac death. In experimental models, systemic estrogen administration in male rats has been shown to reduce stroke-induced cell death in the insular cortex as well as prevent sympathoexcitation. The central nucleus of the amygdala has been postulated to mediate sympathoexcitatory output from the insular cortex. We therefore set out to determine if endogenous estrogen levels within the central nucleus of the amygdala are altered following stroke and if microinjection of estrogen into the central nucleus of the amygdala modulates autonomic tone. Plasma estrogen concentrations were not altered by middle cerebral artery occlusion (22.86+/-0.14 pg/ml vs. 21.24+/-0.33 pg/ml; P&gt;0.05). In contrast, estrogen concentrations in the central nucleus of the amygdala increased significantly following middle cerebral artery occlusion (from 20.83+/-0.54 pg/ml to 76.67+/-1.59 pg/ml; P&lt;0.05). Local infusion of an aromatase inhibitor, letrozole, into the central nucleus of the amygdala at the time of middle cerebral artery occlusion prevented the increase in estrogen concentration suggesting that this increase was dependent on aromatization from testosterone. Furthermore, bilateral microinjection of estrogen (0.5 microM in 200 nl) directly into the central nucleus of the amygdala significantly decreased arterial pressure and sympathetic tone and increased baroreflex sensitivity, and these effects were enhanced following co-injection with either an N-methyl-D-aspartate or non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. Taken together, the results suggest that middle cerebral artery occlusion resulted in synthesis of estrogen within the central nucleus of the amygdala and that this enhanced estrogen level may act to attenuate overstimulation of central nucleus of the amygdala neurons to prevent middle cerebral artery occlusion-induced autonomic dysfunction.
Neurokinin-1 receptors show activity-dependent changes in their surface distributions that are critical in spinal pain mechanisms, and also may play an important role in the motor and affective behaviors influenced by dopaminergic projections from the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. To determine the relevant sites for neurokinin-1 receptor activation in these midbrain regions, we examined the electron microscopic immunolabeling of neurokinin-1 receptors and the dopamine-synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase in normal rats. We also examined whether neurokinin-1 receptor distributions in one or both regions are affected by (1) startle-evoking intense auditory stimulation or (2) acute administration of apomorphine, a dopamine D1/D2 agonist that enhances startle while paradoxically reducing the prepulse inhibition produced by low intensity conditioning stimuli in rat models of schizophrenia. In each region, neurokinin-1 immunogold was located on the plasma membrane and endomembranes of somatodendritic profiles with or without tyrosine hydroxylase. As compared with controls, animals receiving intense auditory stimulation either alone or together with smaller low intensity prepulses showed a significant increase in neurokinin-1-plasmalemmal labeling in non-dopaminergic dendrites of both regions, and a reduction in this labeling in dopaminergic dendrites of the ventral tegmental area. Both effects were diminished following apomorphine administration. In absence of the intense auditory stimulation, however, apomorphine increased neurokinin-1-immunogold particles on the plasma membrane of the non-dopaminergic dendrites exclusively in the substantia nigra. Our results are the first to show that neurokinin-1 receptors have plasmalemmal distributions in dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic neurons that can be differentially modified by startle-evoking auditory stimulation. They suggest that while apomorphine can independently affect neurokinin-1 receptor trafficking in substantia nigra motor circuits, its effects on neurokinin-1 receptor distributions in the ventral tegmental area are exclusively dependent on sensory activation.
The generation of toxic concentrations of nitric oxide by the inducible nitric oxide synthase expressed in microglia and other brain cell types is frequently invoked as a causative factor in neurodegeneration. Experiments were carried out on slice cultures of rat hippocampus to test this hypothesis. Exposure of the slices to bacterial lipopolysaccharide plus interferon-gamma led to a time-dependent expression of functional inducible nitric oxide synthase that was found only in microglia. Microglial activation by other means, such as physical damage, was not associated with inducible nitric oxide synthase expression. Damage and cell death in slices expressing inducible nitric oxide synthase was evaluated over a period of 6 days, but none was found. Consistent with this result, cGMP measurements indicated that the average local nitric oxide concentration remained in the low nanomolar range. When the microglial population was expanded to a density three-fold above normal by applying granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor, however, lipopolysaccharide plus interferon-gamma provoked neurodegeneration that could be blocked by an inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitor. The associated nitric oxide concentration in the slices was saturating for guanylyl cyclase-coupled nitric oxide receptors, signifying at least 10 nM. It is concluded that inducible nitric oxide synthase is expressed in microglia only in response to specific stimuli involving the innate immune system, and that the resulting level of nitric oxide in intact brain tissue is normally too low to inflict damage directly. Quantities of nitric oxide sufficient to contribute directly or indirectly to pathology could be produced should the density of microglia become high enough, although caution must be exercised in extrapolating this finding to the human brain in vivo.
In the present study we evaluated if a medial preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus lesion affects the olfactory preference toward soiled bedding from receptive females in comparison to bedding from anestrous females or clean bedding. In the second part of the study we evaluated the accessory olfactory system response to estrous bedding with Fos immunoreactivity to determine if the preoptic lesions modify the processing of sexually relevant olfactory cues. Before medial preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus lesions, male rats spent more time investigating estrous bedding as opposed to anestrous or clean bedding. After the lesion, subjects showed no preference between estrous and anestrous bedding; that is, males spent the same amount of time investigating both types of bedding. These two odors were investigated more than clean bedding. Increments in Fos immunoreactivity neurons were seen in structures of the accessory olfactory system after exposure to soiled estrous bedding [granular layer of the accessory olfactory bulb, anterior-dorsal medial amygdala, posterior-dorsal medial amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis]. These results suggest that bilateral destruction of the medial preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus modify male olfactory preference in such a way that subjects spend the same time smelling and investigating bedding from estrous and anestrous females. This change in olfactory preference is not associated with alterations in the processing of sexually relevant olfactory cues by the accessory olfactory system.
Endogenous beta-neuregulin-1 is required for the plasma membrane expression of large-conductance (BK-type) Ca2+-activated K+ channels in developing chick ciliary neurons of the chick ciliary ganglion. During normal development, beta-neuregulin-1 acts in concert with transforming growth factor-beta1 to stimulate movement of large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels from intracellular stores into the plasma membrane, although these two growth factors preferentially act on different intracellular pools. We have previously shown that actions of transforming growth factor-beta1 on ciliary neurons require activation of phosphoinositol 3-kinase and Akt, as well as a parallel cascade composed of the small GTPase Ras and a mitogen-activated protein kinase (extracellular signal-regulated kinase). In addition, we have shown that the actions of beta-neuregulin-1 require activation of phosphoinositol 3-kinase and the protein kinase Akt. Here we examine whether beta-neuregulin-1-evoked mobilization of large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels also requires activation of a Ras-extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling cascade. We observed that application of beta-neuregulin-1 caused a robust and MEK1/2-dependent increase in extracellular signal-regulated kinase diphosphorylation that indicates activation of this signaling cascade in ciliary ganglion neurons, similar to what we have previously observed for transforming growth factor-beta1. However, activation of this cascade is not necessary for beta-neuregulin-1-evoked mobilization because stimulation of macroscopic large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels persisted in cells treated with the MEK1/2 inhibitors PD98059 or U0126, in cells over-expressing dominant-negative forms of extracellular signal-regulated kinase, and in cells treated with the Ras inhibitor FTI-277. These results indicate that the mechanisms that underlie beta-neuregulin-1 and transforming growth factor-beta1 mobilization of large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels are only partly overlapping, possibly because they cause recruitment of spatially distinct signaling complexes.
Increasing evidence suggests that abnormal iron handling may be involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. The present study investigates the role of iron and the iron-storage protein ferritin in inflammation-induced degeneration of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta. Injection of lipopolysaccharide into the globus pallidus of young and middle-aged rats substantially decreased tyrosine hydroxylase immunostaining in substantia nigra pars compacta four weeks after injection. Loss of tyrosine hydroxylase expression was accompanied by increased iron and ferritin levels in glial cells of the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Despite greater increases in nigral iron levels, ferritin induction was less pronounced in older rats, suggesting the regulation of ferritin was compromised with age. Automated movement tracking analyses showed that young rats recovered from LPS-induced locomotor deficits within four weeks, yet older rats failed to improve on measures of speed and total distance moved. Intrapallidal lipopolysaccharide injection also increased expression of alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta. These results suggest that pallidal inflammation significantly increases stress on dopamine-containing neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Alterations in nigral iron levels and protein handing may increase the vulnerability of nigral neurons to degenerative processes.
The nucleus accumbens is part of the neural circuit that controls reward-seeking in response to reward-predictive cues. Dopamine release in the accumbens is essential for the normal functioning of this circuit. Previous studies have shown that injection of dopamine receptor antagonists into the accumbens severely impairs an animal's ability to perform operant behaviors specified by predictive cues. Furthermore, excitations and inhibitions of accumbens neurons evoked by such cues are abolished by inactivation of the ventral tegmental area, the major dopaminergic input to the accumbens. These results indicate that dopamine is necessary to elicit neural activity in the accumbens that drives the behavioral response to cues. Here we show that accumbens dopamine release is causal to the rats' reward-seeking behavioral response by demonstrating that dopamine in this structure is both necessary and sufficient to promote the appropriate behavioral response to reward-predictive cues.
Studies in humans have documented that acute acid infusion into the esophagus leads to decrease in threshold for sensations to mechanical distension of the esophagus. It is not known whether acid infusion leads to sensitization of brainstem neurons receiving synaptic input from vagal afferent fibers innervating the esophagus. The aim of this study was to investigate the correlation of responses of vagal afferents and brainstem neurons after acute infusion of acid (0.1 N HCl)+pepsin (1 mg/ml) into the esophagus of cats. The vagal afferent fibers (n=20) exhibited pressure-dependent increase in firing to graded esophageal distension (5-80 mm Hg). Infusion of acid+pepsin into the esophagus produced a significant increase in ongoing resting firing of five of 16 fibers (31%) tested. However, their responses to graded esophageal distension did not change when tested 30 min after infusion. Pepsin infusion did not change the resting firing and response to esophageal distension (n=4). Twenty-one brainstem neurons were recorded that responded in an intensity-dependent manner to graded esophageal distension. Responses of 12 excited neurons were tested after intra-esophageal acid+pepsin infusion. Neurons exhibited a decrease in threshold for response to esophageal distension and increase in firing after acid+pepsin infusion. The sensitization of response after intra-esophageal acid remained unaffected after cervical (C1-C2) spinal transection (n=3). Results indicate that the esophageal distension-sensitive neurons in the brainstem exhibit sensitization of response to esophageal distension after acute acid+pepsin exposure. The sensitization of brainstem neurons is possibly initiated by increased spontaneous firing of the vagal afferent fibers to acid+pepsin, but not to sensitized response of vagal distension-sensitive afferent fibers to esophageal distension. Results also indicate that spinal pathway does not contribute to sensitization of brainstem neurons.
Investigation of the elements underlying synapse replacement after brain injury is essential for predicting the neural compensation that can be achieved after various types of damage. The growth-associated proteins superior cervical ganglion-10 and growth-associated protein-43 have previously been linked with structural changes in the corticostriatal system in response to unilateral deafferentation. To examine the regulation of this response, unilateral cortical aspiration lesion was carried out in combination with ipsilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the substantia nigra, and the time course of the contralateral cortical molecular response was followed. Unilateral cortical aspiration lesion in rats corresponds with an upregulation of superior cervical ganglion-10 mRNA at 3 and 10 days post-lesion, and protein, sustained from three to at least 27 days following lesion. With the addition of substantia nigra lesion, the response shifts to an upregulation of growth-associated protein-43 mRNA at 3 and 10 days post-lesion, and protein after 10 days. Nigral lesion alone does not alter contralateral expression of either gene. Likewise, motor function assessment using the rotorod test revealed no significant long-term deficits in animals that sustained only nigrostriatal damage, but cortical lesion was associated with a temporary deficit which was sustained when nigrostriatal input was also removed. Growth-associated protein-43 and superior cervical ganglion-10, two presynaptic genes that are postulated to play roles in lesion-induced sprouting, are differentially upregulated in corticostriatal neurons after cortical versus combined cortical/nigral lesions. The shift in contralateral gene response from superior cervical ganglion-10 to growth-associated protein-43 upregulation and associated behavioral deficit following combined cortical and nigral denervation suggest that nigrostriatal afferents regulate cortical lesion-induced gene expression and ultimate functional outcome.
The prefrontal cortex is considered to provide executive control of response selection and planning in diverse cognitive tasks, translated into action via descending subcortical projections (or 'loops') through the basal ganglia. We have used a disconnection strategy to demonstrate first that bilateral fronto-striatal disconnection disrupts rats' abilities to perform delayed alternation, the classic test of prefrontal function in rats and monkeys, and second that crossed unilateral cortical and striatal lesions on opposite sides similarly disrupt rats' abilities to perform the same cognitive task. We found that effective disconnection requires interruption of interhemispheric transfer, achieved by transection of the anterior corpus callosum. This produces a moderate deficit in its own right, which is not exacerbated by additional prefrontal and striatal lesions in one hemisphere. Conversely, the animals are significantly more impaired after crossed prefrontal and striatal lesions of similar total magnitude. The results demonstrate than an intact cortico-striatal pathway is necessary to sustain performance on a classical prefrontal task, and provide a model within which to assess circuit reconstruction with novel cell therapies for brain repair.
The functional significance of parallel and redundant information processing by multiple cortical auditory fields remains elusive. A possible function is that they may exert distinct corticofugal modulations on thalamic information processing through their parallel connections with the medial geniculate body and thalamic reticular nucleus. To reveal the anatomical framework for this function, we examined corticothalamic projections of tonotopically comparable subfields in the primary and non-primary areas in the rat auditory cortex. Biocytin was injected in and around cortical area Te1 after determining best frequency at the injection site on the basis of epicortical field potentials evoked by pure tones. The rostral part of area Te1 (primary auditory area) and area temporal cortex, area 2, dorsal (Te2D) (posterodorsal auditory area) dorsal to the caudal end of area Te1, which both exhibited high best frequencies, projected to the ventral zone of the ventral division of the medial geniculate body. The caudal end of area Te1 (auditory area) and the rostroventral part of area Te1 (a part of anterior auditory field), which both exhibited low best frequencies, projected to the dorsal zone of the ventral division of the medial geniculate body. In contrast to the similar topography in the projections to the ventral division of the medial geniculate body, collateral projections to the thalamic reticular nucleus terminated in the opposite dorsal and ventral zones of the lateral and middle tiers of the nucleus in each pair of the tonotopically comparable cortical subfields. In addition, the projections of the non-primary cortical subfields further arborized in the medial tier of the thalamic reticular nucleus. The results suggest that tonotopically comparable primary and non-primary subfields in the auditory cortex provide corticofugal excitatory effects to the same part of the ventral division of the medial geniculate body. On the other hand, corticofugal inhibition via the thalamic reticular nucleus may operate in different parts of the ventral division of the medial geniculate body or different thalamic nuclei. The primary and non-primary cortical auditory areas are presumed to subserve distinct gating functions for auditory attention.
Cholinergic modulation of nociceptive transmission through both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in the spinal cord represents an important mechanism in pain signaling. However, what neuronal elements release acetylcholine and how release might change in response to deafferentation are unclear. The present studies demonstrated Ca++- and K+-dependent release of [3H]-acetylcholine from slices of regional areas of rat spinal cord. That [3H]-acetylcholine was synthesized from [3H]-choline was demonstrated by the lack of [3H]-acetylcholine release following incubation with either the choline uptake inhibitor hemicholinium or the choline acetyltransferase inhibitor bromoacetylcholine. Rats treated neonatally with capsaicin or with spinal nerve ligation as adults showed a significantly decreased K+-stimulated release of [3H]-acetylcholine from dorsal horn but not ventral horn lumbar spinal cord slices. In rats subjected to dorsal rhizotomy, while basal release from lumbar dorsal spinal cord slices was reduced, K+-stimulated [3H]-acetylcholine release, while decreased, was not significantly different compared with controls. The data presented here show that there are regional differences in the release of acetylcholine from spinal cord and that this release can be modulated by chemical or surgical deafferentation. These results also indicate that the source of acetylcholine in the dorsal cord originates mainly from resident somata and their collaterals, interneurons and/or descending terminals, with only very minor contributions coming from primary afferents. The present data help to further elucidate the role of acetylcholine in spinal signaling, particularly with respect to the effects of nerve injury and nociceptive neurotransmission.
Evidence is increasingly accumulating in support of a role for the steroid hormone 17beta-estradiol to modify neuronal functions in the mammalian CNS, especially in autonomic centers. In addition to its well known slowly developing and long lasting actions (genomic), estrogen can also rapidly modulate cell signaling events by affecting membrane excitability (non-genomic). Little, however, is known regarding the mechanism(s) by which 17beta-estradiol produces its rapid effects on neuronal membrane excitability. As potassium channels play a crucial role in cell excitability, we hypothesized that 17beta-estradiol caused excitability by modulating potassium flux through the neuronal cell membrane. We tested this hypothesis by examining the effects of 17beta-estradiol on outward potassium currents recorded in cells from the parabrachial nucleus of rats, in vitro. Bath application of 17beta-estradiol (10-100 microM) reversibly reduced voltage-activated outward potassium currents in a concentration-dependent manner. This effect was mimicked by BSA-17beta-estradiol but not mimicked by 17alpha-estradiol and was significantly reduced by ICI 182,780, a selective estrogen receptor antagonist. The inhibitory effect of 17beta-estradiol was dependent on extracellular potassium concentration, with more profound effects observed at lower concentrations. The 17beta-estradiol-induced inhibition of the outward current was blocked by pretreatment with the potassium channel blockers tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine. The time constants of deactivation of tail currents were decreased by 17beta-estradiol over a range of test potentials (-140 to -80 mV). Finally, the inhibitory effect of 17beta-estradiol on the outward potassium currents was blocked following pre-incubation of slices in lavendustin A, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Taken together, these results suggest that 17beta-estradiol acts rapidly at an extracellular membrane receptor to reduce tetraethylammonium- and 4-aminopyridine-sensitive outward potassium currents by accelerating the closure of potassium channels. This may be the ionic basis of 17beta-estradiol-induced enhancement of neuronal excitability.
The lateral hypothalamus is part of an efferent system that modifies pain at the spinal cord dorsal horn, but the mechanisms by which lateral hypothalamus-induced antinociception occur are not fully understood. Previous work has shown that antinociception produced from electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus is mediated in part by spinally projecting 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurons in the ventromedial medulla. To further examine the role of the lateral hypothalamus in antinociception, the cholinergic agonist carbamylcholine chloride (125 nmol) was microinjected into the lateral hypothalamus of female Sprague-Dawley rats and nociceptive responses measured on the tail-flick and foot-withdrawal tests. Intrathecal injections of the selective 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, WAY 100135, SB-224289, and tropisetron, respectively, and the non-specific antagonist methysergide, were given. Lateral hypothalamus stimulation with carbamylcholine chloride produced significant antinociception that was blocked by WAY 100135, tropisetron, and SB-224289 on both the tail-flick and foot-withdrawal tests. Methysergide was not different from controls on the tail flick test, but increased foot-withdrawal latencies compared with controls. These results suggest that the lateral hypothalamus modifies nociception in part by activating spinally projecting serotonin neurons that act at 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, and 5-HT3 receptors in the dorsal horn.
Emerging data report sex differences in how the brain responds to chronic stress. Here, we investigated the effects of chronic restraint stress (6 h/day/21 days) on hippocampal morphology and function in ovariectomized female rats. Chronic restraint stress caused CA3 apical dendritic retraction in short- and long-shafted neurons, while it reduced basal dendritic arbors in long-shafted neurons only. Chronic restraint did not affect CA1 dendritic arborization, although it increased the proportion of CA1 spine heads compared with controls. Both stressed and control animals performed well on the Y-maze, a spatial memory task. However, chronic stress enhanced Y-maze performance compared with controls, which may reflect facilitated spatial memory or reduced habituation. Y-maze performance correlated with CA1 spine head proportion. This relationship suggests that spatial ability in females may be more tightly coupled with CA1 morphology, which may override the influence of CA3 dendritic retraction. Thus, this research provides additional evidence that CA3 morphology does not always parallel spatial memory.
Proinflammatory cytokines act at receptors in the CNS to alter physiological and behavioral responses. Exposure to stressors increases both peripheral and central proinflammatory cytokines, yet the mechanism(s) of induction remain unknown. Experiments here examined the role of catecholamines in the in vivo induction of proinflammatory cytokines following tailshock stress. Rats were pretreated i.p. with 2.0 mg/kg prazosin (alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist), 10.0 mg/kg propranolol (beta-adrenoceptor antagonist), or 5.0 mg/kg labetalol (alpha1- and beta-adrenoceptor antagonist) 30 min prior to tailshock exposure and plasma interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and IL-6, along with tissue interleukin-1beta from the hypothalamus, hippocampus, and pituitary were measured immediately following stressor termination. Prazosin attenuated stress-induced plasma IL-1beta and IL-6, but had no effect on tissue IL-1beta levels, while propranolol attenuated plasma IL-6 and blocked tissue IL-1beta elevation, and labetalol, which cannot cross the blood-brain barrier, attenuated plasma IL-1beta and IL-6, blocked pituitary IL-1beta, but had no effect on central tissue IL-1beta levels. Furthermore, administration of 50.0 mg/kg N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine hydrochloride, a neurotoxin that lesions neural projections from the locus coeruleus, prevented stress-induced elevation in hippocampal IL-1beta, a region highly innervated by the locus coeruleus, but had no effect on hypothalamic IL-1beta, a region that receives few locus coeruleus projections. Finally, i.p. injection of 5.0 mg/kg isoproterenol (beta-adrenoceptor agonist) was sufficient to induce circulating IL-1 and IL-6, and tissue IL-1beta. These data suggest catecholamines play an important role in the induction of stress-induced proinflammatory cytokines and that beta-adrenoceptors are critical for tissue IL-1beta induction, while both alpha- and beta-adrenoceptors contribute to the induction of plasma cytokines.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (ecstasy) increases mature interleukin-1beta production in rat brain shortly after injection. This effect is a consequence of the 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced hyperthermia and is reduced when rats are maintained at low ambient room temperature. Since interleukin-1beta is generated as an inactive 31-kDa precursor protein and processed into mature form by caspase-1, we have now examined the effect of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine on pro-interleukin-1beta production and caspase-1-like protease activity in the hypothalamus and frontal cortex of Dark Agouti rats. 3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine increased the immunoreactivity of pro-interleukin-1beta in frontal cortex, not in hypothalamus, 3 h and 6 h after administration. Caspase-1-like protease activity was increased in frontal cortex 3 h after 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine injection compared with saline-treated animals. 3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine did not modify the expression of pro-caspase-1 but increased the immunoreactivity for the caspase-1 active cleavage product (p20) in frontal cortex 3 h after dosing. No change on caspase-1-like protease activity was observed in hypothalamus. The basal immunoreactivity of pro-interleukin-1beta and caspase-1-like protease activity was higher in the hypothalamus than in frontal cortex of control (saline-treated) animals. These data indicate that 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine alters, in a region-specific manner, the mechanisms which regulate interleukin-1beta production in the brain of Dark Agouti rats and suggest that the release of interleukin-1beta in hypothalamus may be regulated independently of caspase-1 activation. Administration (i.c.v.) of interleukin-1beta enhanced the 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced long-term loss of brain 5-HT parameters and immediate hyperthermia. Neither of these effects was observed when interleukin-1beta was given into hippocampus. These results indicate that exogenous interleukin-1beta potentiates 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine neurotoxicity as a consequence of its effect on body temperature and suggest that the 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced rise in interleukin-1beta levels could in turn contribute to the maintenance of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced hyperthermia and subsequent neurotoxicity.
During spinal cord maturation neuronal excitability gradually differentiates to meet different functional demands. Spontaneous activity, appearing early during spinal development, is regulated by the expression pattern of ion channels in individual neurons. While emerging excitability of embryonic motoneurons has been widely investigated, little is known about that of spinal interneurons. Voltage-dependent K+ channels are a heterogeneous class of ion channels that accomplish several functions. Recently voltage-dependent K+ channels encoded by erg subfamily genes (ERG channels) were shown to modulate excitability in immature neurons of mouse and quail. We investigated the expression of ERG channels in immature spinal interneurons, using organotypic embryonic cultures of mouse spinal cord after 1 and 2 weeks of development in vitro. We report here that all the genes of the erg family known so far (erg1a, erg1b, erg2, erg3) are expressed in embryonic spinal cultures. We demonstrate for the first time that three ERG proteins (ERG1A, ERG2 and ERG3) are co-expressed in the same neuronal population, and display a spatio-temporal distribution in the spinal slices. ERG immuno-positive cells, representing mainly GABAergic interneurons, were present in large numbers at early stages of development, while declining later, with a ventral to dorsal gradient. Patch clamp recordings confirmed these data, showing that ventral interneurons expressed functional ERG currents only transiently. Similar expression of the erg genes was observed at comparable ages in vivo. The role of ERG currents in regulating neuronal excitability during the earliest phases of spinal circuitry development will be examined in future studies.
As a measure of functional activity we determined regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMR(glc)) in adult, female wild type and fragile X (Fmr1 null) mice homozygous and heterozygous for the null mutation. To ascertain if the sexes differ with respect to the severity of the effects of the mutation we compared our results with results of our previous study on male Fmr1 null mice [Qin M, Kang J, Smith CB (2002) Increased rates of cerebral glucose metabolism in a mouse model of fragile X mental retardation. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 99:15758-15763.]. In contrast to the male Fmr1 null mouse, rCMR(glc) was unchanged in the homozygous female except in the dorsal raphe where rCMR(glc) was increased by 36%. There were no differences in rCMR(glc) between heterozygous and wild type female mice. We compared male and female mice for effects of the null mutation on behavior. We found that the female Fmr1 null mouse is similar to the male with deficits in performance on a passive avoidance task, general hyperactivity, and increased susceptibility to audiogenic seizures. Both homozygous and heterozygous female mice exhibited hyperactivity and increased susceptibility to seizures, whereas only the homozygous mice had a deficit on the passive avoidance test. Male Fmr1 null mice had a tendency for lower anxiety-like behavior in an open field, whereas this was not evident in females. Compared with male wild type, male Fmr1 null mice also had a diminished acoustic startle response at higher stimulus intensities, whereas all three female genotypes had responses similar to those of male Fmr1 null mice. Whether estrogen affords female Fmr1 null mice some protection from the effects of the mutation remains to be determined.
Stimulation of cell proliferation and neurogenesis in the adult dentate gyrus has been observed after focal and global brain ischemia but only little is known about the underlying mechanisms. We here analyzed neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus after small cortical infarcts leaving the hippocampal formation and subcortical regions intact. Using the photothrombosis model in adult rats, focal ischemic infarcts were induced in different cortical areas (sensorimotor forelimb and hindlimb cortex) and proliferating cells were labeled at days 3-14 after infarct induction with bromodeoxyuridine. At 2, 4, and 10 weeks after ischemia, immunocytochemistry was performed with immature neuronal (doublecortin), mature neuronal (neuronal nuclei antigen) and glial (calcium-binding protein beta S100beta) markers. When compared with sham-operated controls, animals with infarcts in the forelimb as well as hindlimb cortex revealed an increase in survival of newborn progenitor cells at four and 10 weeks after the insult with predominance at the ipsilateral side. Triple immunofluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed an increase in neurogenesis in all groups that was more pronounced 10 weeks after the infarct. Application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonist MK-801 during lesion induction significantly enhanced neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus. An even stronger increase in newborn neurons was observed after anti-inflammatory treatment with indomethacine during the first 16 days of the experiment. The present study demonstrates that small cortical infarcts leaving subcortical structures intact increase neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus and that these processes can be stimulated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade and anti-inflammatory treatment.
The selectively bred Roman high- and low-avoidance rats differ in emotionality and responsiveness to the motor effects of acute and repeated psychostimulant administration. These lines also show drastic differences in the neurochemical responses of their mesolimbic dopamine systems to addictive drugs. The nucleus accumbens is critically involved in the locomotor activation produced by psychostimulants and in the augmentation of this effect observed upon repeated drug administration (i.e. behavioral sensitization), although there is not a general consensus as to whether the nucleus accumbens-core or the nucleus accumbens-shell is preferentially involved in such alterations. This study was designed to evaluate the effects of acute amphetamine (0.20 mg/kg, s.c.) on dopamine output in the nucleus accumbens-shell and nucleus accumbens-core of the Roman lines under basal conditions (i.e. nave rats) and after the repeated administration of amphetamine (1 mg/kg, s.c. x 10 days) or saline. We show that (1) in nave rats, amphetamine caused a larger increment in dopamine output in the nucleus accumbens-shell vs the nucleus accumbens-core only in the Roman high-avoidance line; (2) repeated amphetamine elicits behavioral sensitization in Roman high-avoidance, but not Roman low-avoidance, rats; (3) in sensitized Roman high-avoidance rats, amphetamine provokes a larger increment in dopamine output in the nucleus accumbens-core, and an attenuated dopaminergic response in the nucleus accumbens-shell, as compared with Roman high-avoidance rats repeatedly treated with saline; and (4) such neurochemical changes are not observed in the mesoaccumbens dopaminergic system of the sensitization-resistant Roman low-avoidance line. We propose that (1) Roman high-avoidance and Roman low-avoidance rats differ in the vulnerability to develop psychostimulant sensitization, (2) the nucleus accumbens-core and nucleus accumbens-shell subserve distinct functional roles in this phenomenon, and (3) comparative studies in the Roman lines may provide insight into the influence of neural substrates and genetic background on the individual vulnerability to addiction.
Glucocorticoids exert various neuroendocrinological effects, including stress response, in the central nervous system via glucocorticoid receptor (GR). GRs are transported from the cytoplasm to the nucleus upon ligand binding, and then exert the transcriptional activity. Although it is important for unraveling the actual property of the GR in vivo, subcellular dynamics of the GR are still unclear within the brain tissue in which the neuronal circuitry is maintained. To address this issue, we generated green fluorescent protein (GFP)-GR knockin mice, whose GR has been replaced by a GFP-GR fusion protein that is functionally indistinguishable from endogenous GR. In fixed brain sections of the GFP-GR knockin mice, the distribution of the green fluorescence was similar to that of GR immunoreactivity. By subtracting autofluorescence using fluorescent emission fingerprinting method with confocal laser scanning microscope, nuclear localization of GFP-GR was identifiable in the hippocampal CA3 subregion, where subcellular localization of the GR has been unsolved compared with other areas. To examine the subcellular trafficking of GFP-GR in vivo, we performed adrenalectomy on the GFP-GR knockin mice. GFP-GR was translocated from the nucleus to the cytoplasm and neurites two days after adrenalectomy. Furthermore, laser scanning cytometry by which fluorescence intensity in situ can be quantitatively measured revealed the entire GFP-GR expression level was increased. We then examined the dynamic changes in the subcellular localization of GFP-GR in living hippocampal neurons both in dissociated culture and in tissue slices. GFP-GR was localized in not only the perikarya but also neurites in the absence of ligand, and nuclear translocation following ligand treatment was observed. This is the first report visualizing subcellular trafficking of the GR in the mouse brain in more physiological condition. The present results propose new avenues for the research of the GR dynamics both in vitro and in vivo.
The C57BL/Wld s mouse is a mutant strain of mouse that shows greatly slowed Wallerian degeneration both in the central and peripheral nervous system. Using immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence and Western blotting, we have investigated the distribution of the chimeric Wld s protein and its different components in neurons of the CNS of Wld s mice and wild-type C57BL/6J mice. The expression of the Wld s protein is restricted to the nucleus in Wld s mice. Wld s was not detected in axons. The Wld s mice express both the normal and chimeric forms of ubiquitination factor E4 (Ube 4b) and nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase-1 (Nmnat-1). The normal forms were expressed both in the cytoplasm and the nuclei of neurons in Wld s mice and wild-type mice, and were also present in the axon. The normal form of Ube4b, mono- and poly-ubiquitin and IkappaBalpha, a substrate of Ube4b, were not differentially expressed in Wld s mice compared with wild-type mice. However, the expression of both the normal and mutant forms of Nmnat-1 was higher in the nuclei of Wld s mice compared with wild-type mice. Therefore, axon protection in Wld s mice does not appear to be controlled by expression of Wld s protein in the axons per se and also is unlikely to be related to the different activity of Ube4b either in general ubiquitination or toward this particular substrate. The increased Nmnat-1 activity in the nucleus of Wld s mice compared with wild-type mice seems to be a significant factor in the axon protection. It is not known whether the expression of the Nmnat-1 in the axon is significant.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor is known to modulate the function of GABAergic synapses, but the site of brain-derived neurotrophic factor action is still a matter of controversy. This study was aimed at further dissecting the functional alterations produced by brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment of GABAergic synaptic connections in cultures of the murine superior colliculus. The functional consequences of long-term brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment were assessed by analysis of unitary evoked and delayed inhibitory postsynaptic currents in response to high frequency stimulation of single axons. It was found that brain-derived neurotrophic factor facilitated the asynchronous release, but had no effect on the probability of evoked release, the size of the readily releasable pool, and the paired-pulse behavior of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents. However, the amplitudes of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents, delayed inhibitory postsynaptic currents and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents were significantly reduced. Non-stationary fluctuation analysis revealed a decrease in the open channel number at the miniature/evoked inhibitory postsynaptic current peak, but no effect on the mean GABA(A) receptor single channel conductance. Quantitative immunocytochemistry uncovered a significant elevation of presynaptic levels of glutamic acid decarboxylase 65. Together, these findings indicate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment induces pre- as well as postsynaptic changes. What effect predominates will depend on the presynaptic activity pattern: at low activation rates brain-derived neurotrophic factor-treated synapses display a pronounced postsynaptic depression, but at high frequencies this depression is fully compensated by an enhancement of asynchronous release.
Stressful events promote neurochemical changes that may be involved in the provocation of depressive disorder. In addition to neuroendocrine substrates (e.g. corticotropin releasing hormone, and corticoids) and central neurotransmitters (serotonin and GABA), alterations of neuronal plasticity or even neuronal survival may play a role in depression. Indeed, depression and chronic stressor exposure typically reduce levels of growth factors, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor and anti-apoptotic factors (e.g. bcl-2), as well as impair processes of neuronal branching and neurogenesis. Although such effects may result from elevated corticoids, they may also stem from activation of the inflammatory immune system, particularly the immune signaling cytokines. In fact, several proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma, influence neuronal functioning through processes involving apoptosis, excitotoxicity, oxidative stress and metabolic derangement. Support for the involvement of cytokines in depression comes from studies showing their elevation in severe depressive illness and following stressor exposure, and that cytokine immunotherapy (e.g. interferon-alpha) elicited depressive symptoms that were amenable to antidepressant treatment. It is suggested that stressors and cytokines share a common ability to impair neuronal plasticity and at the same time altering neurotransmission, ultimately contributing to depression. Thus, depressive illness may be considered a disorder of neuroplasticity as well as one of neurochemical imbalances, and cytokines may act as mediators of both aspects of this illness.
Converging evidence has indicated that hyperglutamatergic activity and GABAergic dysfunction may play important roles in the neurobiology and treatment of depression and other mood disorders. In this study, in vivo 1H[13C] magnetic resonance spectroscopy was used to quantify the effects of acute phenelzine administration on cortical energetics, glutamate neurotransmission, and GABA synthesis flux. The time-resolved kinetics of cortical [4-13C]glutamate, [4-13C]glutamine, and [2-13C]GABA turnover from i.v.-infused [1,6-13C2]glucose was measured at 11.7 T in alpha-chloralose anesthetized rats four hours after phenelzine treatment (10 mg/kg, i.p.) and in non-treated controls. The rate of the tricarboxylic acid cycle flux was not affected by phenelzine treatment compared with the non-treated group (0.46+/-0.05 vs. 0.50+/-0.05 micromol/g/min, respectively). The rate of the glutamate-glutamine cycling flux between neurons and glia in the phenelzine-treated group was significantly reduced (from 0.16+/-0.04 to 0.10+/-0.03 micromol/g/min), providing in vivo evidence that phenelzine attenuates glutamate neurotransmission. Following phenelzine treatment, the cortical GABA concentration increased significantly (from 1.02+/-0.17 to 2.30+/-0.26 micromol/g), while the GABA synthesis flux was unchanged (from 0.07+/-0.02 to 0.06+/-0.02 micromol/g/min). The possible role of augmented GABAergic function resulting from elevated GABA levels in the observed modulatory effect of phenelzine on the glutamate-glutamine cycling flux was discussed. The reduced glutamate-glutamine cycling flux observed in this study suggests that, in addition to its effects on monoaminergic and GABAergic systems, the attenuation of glutamate neurotransmission resulting from phenelzine administration may also contribute to its efficacy in the treatment of depression. This study is the first demonstration that the glutamate-glutamine cycling flux, which can be measured non-invasively in the human brain in vivo, was altered due to the action of a psychotropic drug.
The aim of this study was to investigate the neurochemical mechanism underlying the effect of nicotine and dimethylphenylpiperazinium (DMPP) on 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) release in the dorsal raphe nucleus and nucleus accumbens of freely behaving rats. For comparison, lobeline, cytisine and RJR-2403 were also investigated. It was found that all drugs, when infused locally, evoked an increase of 5-HT in the dorsal raphe nucleus. However, the magnitudes of the 5-HT increase were comparatively different between the drugs in the ranking of their potency: DMPP&gt;RJR 2403&gt;nicotine&gt;lobeline&gt;cytisine. Both methyllycaconitine, a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) antagonist and methyllycaconitine, a selective alpha7-containing nAChR antagonist blocked the effects of nicotine and DMPP, suggesting that alpha7 subunit mediated the increases in 5-HT. However, DMPP was reported to increase 5-HT using non-nAChR mechanism [Lendvai B, Sershen H, Lajtha A, Santha E, Baranyi M, Vizi ES (1996) Differential mechanisms involved in the effect of nicotinic agonists DMPP and lobeline to release [3H]5-HT from rat hippocampal slices. Neuropharmacology 35:1769-1777]. To test if 5-HT carriers were involved, a selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor citalopram (1 microM) was infused into the dorsal raphe nucleus before administration of nicotine or DMPP. As a result, citalopram significantly blocked the effect of DMPP, whereas it had no influence on nicotine. Finally, the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) was used to test whether the increases in 5-HT were depolarization-dependent. Administration of 8-OH-DPAT (0.1 mg/kg, s.c.) produced significant decreases in 5-HT in the animals treated with nicotine. In contrast, the effect of DMPP was not altered by 8-OH-DPAT, suggesting that the increases in 5-HT were independent of cell membrane depolarization. In conclusion, there are different mechanisms involved in nicotine- and DMPP-evoked increases in 5-HT. This is consistent with prior work suggesting DMPP may primarily act on 5-HT carriers.
Endomorphins represent a group of endogenous opioid peptides with high affinity for the mu-opioid receptor. In the brainstem, Endomorphin-2 is found in trigeminal dorsal horn and the nuclei of the solitary tract, suggesting its presence in both nociceptive and visceral primary afferents. If Endomorphin-2 were an endogenous ligand for the mu-opioid receptor, we would expect to find the receptor at cellular sites in close association with the peptide. We used dual-labeling immunocytochemistry combined with electron microscopy to examine interactions between Endomorphin-2-immunoreactive and mu-opioid receptor-immunoreactive profiles within the nuclei of the solitary tract in the rat. Endomorphin-2-immunoreactivity was found primarily in unmyelinated axons and axon terminals in nuclei of the solitary tract and the majority of these terminals contained dense core vesicles. Endomorphin-2-immunoreactive axon terminals often formed asymmetric synapses with dendritic spines lacking mu-opioid receptor-immunoreactivity, but mu-opioid receptor-immunoreactivity was found in many of the larger dendritic targets of Endomorphin-2-immunoreactive terminals. Thus, mu-opioid receptor-immunoreactivity was found in the postsynaptic targets of Endomorphin-2-immunoreactive axon terminals, consistent with the hypothesis that Endomorphin-2 is an endogenous ligand for this receptor within the nuclei of the solitary tract. A small number of Endomorphin-2-immunoreactive somata, dendrites, and axon terminals also contained mu-opioid receptor-immunoreactivity. Cells that contain both the opioid peptide and its receptor may be a substrate for potential autoregulation of nuclei of the solitary tract neurons by opioid ligands. Finally, using tract tracing and confocal microscopy, we found Endomorphin-2-immunoreactivity in a subset of vagal afferents. Together these findings support the hypothesis that Endomorphin-2 is a ligand for the mu-opioid receptor within nuclei of the solitary tract and that the peptide is at least partially derived from primary visceral afferents.
Hypoxic inhibition of K+ channels provides a link between low O2 and cell function, and in glossopharyngeal neurons hypoxic inhibition of a TWIK-related halothane-inhibitable K+ channel-1 (THIK-1)-like background K+ channel regulates neuronal function. In the present study, we examined directly the O2 sensitivity of recombinant THIK-1 channels, expressed in human embryonic kidney (HE293) cells. THIK-1 expression conferred a moderately outwardly rectifying halothane-inhibited and arachidonic acid-potentiated K+ current and invoked a strongly hyperpolarized resting membrane potential. Endogenous K+ currents in untransfected cells were unaffected by either agent. Hypoxia (P(O2), 20 mmHg) reversibly inhibited THIK-1 currents and caused membrane depolarization, effects that were occluded by halothane. Neither the mitochondrial complex I inhibitors rotenone, myxothiazol and sodium cyanide, nor the NADPH oxidase inhibitors diphenylene iodonium and phenylarsine oxide, were effective in inhibiting the O2-sensitivity of THIK-1. Thus, hypoxic inhibition of THIK-1 occurs by a mechanism dissimilar to that which regulates the activity of other members of the background K+ channel family. Given the O2 sensitivity of THIK-1 channels and their abundant expression in the CNS, we raise for the first time the possibility of a physiological and/or pathological role for these channels during brain ischemia.
Rapid eye movement sleep plays a vital role in the survival of animals. Its deprivation causes alterations in brain functions and behaviors including activities of important enzymes, neurotransmitter levels, impairment of neural excitability and memory consolidation. However, there was a lack of knowledge regarding the effects of rapid eye movement sleep deprivation on neuronal morphology that may get affected much earlier than any permanent damage to the neurons. In the present study, some of these issues have been addressed by studying the effects of rapid eye movement sleep deprivation on various morphological parameters viz. neuronal perimeter, area and shape of neurons located in brain areas known to regulate rapid eye movement sleep and as a control in other brain areas which do not regulate rapid eye movement sleep. The results showed that rapid eye movement sleep deprivation differentially affected neurons depending on their physiological correlates of rapid eye movement sleep and neurotransmitter content. The effects could be reversed if the animals were allowed to recover from rapid eye movement sleep loss or by applying alpha1-adrenergic antagonist, prazosin. The findings in rats support reported data and help explaining previous observations.
Functional segregation along the dorso-ventral axis of the hippocampus is a developing concept. The higher susceptibility of the ventral hippocampus to epileptic activity compared with dorsal hippocampus is one of the main features, which still has obscure mechanisms. Using the model of magnesium-free medium and field recordings, single epileptiform discharges displayed higher incidence (77% vs 57%), rate (41.7+/-3.1 vs 13.5+/-0.7 events/min), duration (173.9+/-17.7 vs 116.8+/-13.6 ms) and intensity (coastline, 25.4+/-2.5 vs 9.5+/-1.8) in ventral compared with dorsal rat hippocampal slices. In addition, the decay phase of the evoked synaptic potentials was 110% slower in ventral slices. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist d-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (50-100 microM) decreased the discharge rate and coastline similarly in ventral and dorsal slices, but it shortened the discharges in ventral slices (by 40%) only. The NMDA receptor antagonist 3-((R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (10 microM) decreased the rate in both groups and additionally shortened discharges in both kinds of slices, an effect which was greater in ventral ones (31% vs 13%). Furthermore, both drugs shortened the evoked potentials more in ventral (77%) than in dorsal slices (52%). On the other hand, 1 microM of 3-((R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid shortened the discharges and evoked synaptic potentials only in ventral slices, and slowed down the discharge rate only in dorsal slices. Addition of NMDA, in the magnesium-free medium, enhanced activity in both kinds of slices. At 5 and 10 microM of NMDA 51% of the ventral but only 9% of the dorsal slices displayed persistent epileptiform discharges, which were recorded for at least one hour after reintroduction of magnesium in the medium. At 10-20 microM the enhancement of activity was transient, followed by suppression of discharges in 40% and 76% of the ventral and dorsal slices, respectively. Most of the slices having experienced suppression did not develop persistent activity. We propose that the NMDA receptors contribute to the higher susceptibility of the ventral hippocampus to expression and long-term maintenance of epileptiform discharges. This diversification may be related to other aspects of hippocampal dorso-ventral functional segregation.
It was shown recently that exposure of the developing rat brain during the peak of synaptogenesis to commonly used general anesthetics can trigger widespread apoptotic neurodegeneration in many regions of the developing rat brain and persistent learning/memory deficits later on in life. To understand the mechanism by which general anesthetics induce apoptotic neuronal death we studied two common apoptotic pathways--the intrinsic and the extrinsic pathway--at different time points during synaptogenesis. We found that the intrinsic pathway is activated early on during anesthesia exposure (within two hours), as measured by the down-regulation of bcl-x(L), up-regulation of cytochrome c and the activation of caspase-9 in 7-day-old rats (the peak of synaptogenesis), but remains inactivated in 14-day-old rats (the end of synaptogenesis). The extrinsic pathway is activated later on (within six hours of anesthesia exposure), as measured by the up-regulation of Fas protein and the activation of caspase-8 in 7-day-old rats, but remains inactivated in 14-day-old rats. Anesthesia-induced apoptotic neurodegeneration is age dependent with vulnerability closely correlating with the timing of synaptogenesis, i.e. the developing brain is most sensitive at the peak of synaptogenesis (7 days old) and least sensitive at the end of synaptogenesis (14 days old).
The globus pallidus, one of the basal ganglia nuclei, plays a major role in both basal ganglia physiology and pathophysiology. The globus pallidus is innervated mainly by striatal spiny neurons and globus pallidus collaterals. These GABAergic synapses constitute 90% of the input to globus pallidus cells. Despite the dominance of this inhibitory GABAergic input, globus pallidus cells are spontaneously active and most of them increase their firing rate in a task related manner. To explain this apparent inconsistency, we studied the dynamic and spatial effects of GABAergic inputs to globus pallidus neurons. To this end, we used intra-cellular recording from globus pallidus neurons in rat brain slices, investigating the effect of bath and local GABA application, as well as the responses to electrical stimulation of the striatum. We showed that the properties of the responses to either local or global GABA applications are similar to the responses of globus pallidus cells to GABA release from nerve terminals. Since the stimulus-evoked responses have been shown to be inhibitory in nature, we concluded that GABAergic inputs to globus pallidus both at soma and dendrite level are inhibitory. Furthermore, we showed that GABA can promote globus pallidus synchronization by affecting the timing of globus pallidus spiking, and that the globus pallidus GABAergic synapse undergoes rapid frequency-dependent depression. This prominent synaptic depression can account for the ability of globus pallidus neurons to fire in the presence of a majority of inhibitory inputs and might indicate that globus pallidus neurons are tuned to detect frequency changes. Furthermore, globus pallidus synaptic depression rules out the possibility of activation of GABAeregic afferents as the main mechanisms of high-frequency deep brain stimulation, used for treatment of severe parkinsonian patients.
Nitric oxide (NO) modulates a variety of processes in the mammalian brain, but the mechanisms of neuronal NO signaling are poorly understood. In the periphery, many effects of NO are mediated via the generation of the second messenger cyclic guanosine-3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) and activation of the cGMP-dependent protein kinase type I (cGKI). However, previous studies suggested that the expression of cGKI in the nervous system is rather restricted, thus, questioning the functional significance of the cGMP/cGKI pathway as a mediator of NO signaling in the brain. Here we have performed a detailed immunohistochemical study to elucidate the distribution of cGKI in the CNS and eye of the mouse. Expression of cGKI protein was detected not only in the previously described areas (cerebellum, hippocampus, dorsomedial hypothalamus) but also in a number of additional regions, such as medulla, subcommissural organ, cerebral cortex, amygdala, habenulae, various hypothalamic regions, olfactory bulb, pituitary gland, and retina. Immunoblotting with isoform-specific antibodies indicated that the cGKIalpha isoform is prominent in the cerebellum and medulla, whereas the cGKIbeta isoform is predominant in the cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, and olfactory bulb. Similar levels of the isoforms were detected in the pituitary gland and eye. Thus, it appears that distinct brain regions express distinct cGKI isoforms that signal via distinct pathways. Together, these results improve our understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of NO/cGMP/cGKI signaling and indicate that the distribution and functional relevance of this pathway in the mammalian brain is broader than previously thought.
Disynaptic GABAergic inputs from Schaffer collateral (SC) afferents on to the soma of glutamatergic CA1 pyramidal neurons are involved in feed-forward inhibition in the hippocampal neural circuits. Here we report the functional roles of presynaptic GABA(A) receptors on SC afferents projecting to CA1 pyramidal neurons. Muscimol (0.5 microM), a selective GABA(A) receptor agonist, increased SC-evoked EPSC amplitude and decreased paired-pulse ratio in the slice preparation, in addition, it facilitated spontaneous glutamate release on to mechanically dissociated CA1 pyramidal neurons in an external Ca2+-dependent manner. In field recordings, muscimol at low concentrations (&lt; or = 0.5 microM) increased not only the excitability of SC afferents but glutamate release, however, it at high concentrations (&gt; or = 1 microM) changed bidirectionally. These results suggest that the moderate activation of presynaptic GABA(A) receptors depolarizes SC afferents and enhances SC-mediated glutamatergic transmission. When endogenous GABA was disynaptically released by brief trains of stimulation of SC afferents, the axonal excitability in addition to glutamate release was increased. The effects of endogenous GABA on the excitability of SC afferents were blocked by either SR95531 or AMPA receptor blockers, which would be expected to block disynaptic feed-forward neural circuits. The present results provide a novel form of presynaptic modulation (feed-forward facilitation) of glutamatergic transmission by presynaptic GABA(A) receptors within the intrinsic hippocampal neural circuits.
While inhibitory interneurons are well recognized to play critical roles in the brain, relatively little is know about the molecular events that regulate their growth and differentiation. Calcium ions are thought to be important in neuronal development and L-type voltage gated Ca(+2) channels have been implicated in activity-dependent mechanisms of early-life. However, few studies have examined the role of these channels in the maturation of interneurons. The studies reported here were conducted in hippocampal slice cultures and indicate that the L-type Ca(+2) channel agonists and antagonists accelerate and suppress respectively the growth of parvalbumin-containing interneurons. The effects of channel blockade were reversible suggesting they are not the result of interneuronal cell death. Results from immunoblotting showed that these drugs have similar effects on the expression of the GABA synthetic enzymes, glutamic acid decarboxylase65, glutamic acid decarboxylase67 and the vesicular GABA transporter. This suggests that L-type Ca(+2) channels regulate not only parvalbumin expression but also interneuron development. These effects are likely mediated by actions on the interneurons themselves since the alpha subunits of L-type channels, voltage-gated calcium channel subunit 1.2 and voltage-gated calcium channel subunit 1.3 were found to be highly expressed in neonatal mouse hippocampus and co-localized with parvalbumin in interneurons. Results also showed that while these interneurons can contain either subunit, voltage-gated calcium channel subunit 1.3 was more widely expressed. Taken together results suggest that an important subset of developing interneurons expresses L-type Ca(+2) channels alpha subunits, voltage-gated calcium channel subunit 1.2 and especially voltage-gated calcium channel subunit 1.3 and that these channels likely regulate the development of these interneurons in an activity-dependent manner.
Cocaine-and-amphetamine-regulated-transcript peptides play a role in the modulation of feeding and psychomotor stimulant-like behaviors. The ventral tegmental area and the lateral hypothalamus are likely structures where cocaine-and-amphetamine-regulated-transcript peptides mediate both of these functions. Although lateral hypothalamus inputs to the ventral tegmental area have long been known, the chemical nature of this pathway remains poorly understood. To address this issue, we tested the possibility that cocaine-and-amphetamine-regulated-transcript peptide-containing neurons in the lateral hypothalamus project to the ventral tegmental area using the retrograde transport of cholera toxin subunit B combined with cocaine-and-amphetamine-regulated-transcript peptide immunostaining. The largest density of retrogradely-labeled neurons in the hypothalamus after cholera toxin subunit B injection in the ventral tegmental area was found, ipsi- and contralaterally, in the lateral hypothalamus/perifornical area, although substantial numbers of retrogradely-labeled cells were also found in the medial preoptic area, lateral preoptic area, paraventricular nucleus, dorsomedial hypothalamus and ventromedial hypothalamus. More than 80% of the retrogradely-labeled cocaine-and-amphetamine-regulated-transcript peptide-immunoreactive neurons in the hypothalamus were found in the lateral hypothalamus/perifornical area both ipsilateral and contralateral to the injection sites. Although retrogradely-labeled neurons were seen in the amygdala, locus coeruleus, and raphe nucleus, none of them displayed cocaine-and-amphetamine-regulated-transcript peptide immunoreactivity. Therefore, the hypothalamic projection to the ventral tegmental area provides a substrate whereby cocaine-and-amphetamine-regulated-transcript peptides could mediate the rewarding aspects of feeding and psychomotor stimulant-like behaviors. These findings, combined with the fact that the lateral hypothalamus receives strong inputs from the shell of the nucleus accumbens and ventral pallidum, suggest that these structures are part of integrative functional loops that control reward and appetitive behaviors.
These experiments explore the role of 5-HT1A receptors in the regulation of cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of the intact and adrenalectomized adult rat. Depleting 5-HT with p-chlorophenylalanine (300 mg/kg initially followed by 100 mg/kg/day) or stimulating 5-HT1A receptors with 8-OH-DPAT (1 mg/kg or 2 mg/kg, s.c. injections twice daily) for 14 days had no effect on cell proliferation as measured by Ki-67 or BrdU (5-bromo-3-deoxyuridine) immunocytochemistry in the dentate gyrus. However, combined treatment with p-chlorophenylalanine followed by 8-OH-DPAT significantly increased cell proliferation compared with p-chlorophenylalanine alone. Micro-injection of the 5-HT neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine into the fimbria-fornix (3.0 microg/side) and the cingulate bundle (1.8 microg/side) depleted hippocampal 5-HT locally but did not change cell proliferation 3 weeks after the surgery. However, 8-OH-DPAT (1 mg/kg, twice daily) stimulated cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of hippocampal 5-HT-depleted rats compared with controls. These results suggest that 5-HT(1A) modulates cell proliferation in the hippocampus by a direct post-synaptic effect. Previous studies demonstrate that adrenalectomy increases hippocampal 5-HT1A receptor expression and binding, and thus we investigated whether the effect of adrenalectomy on cell proliferation and survival was dependent on the activity of the 5-HT1A receptors. In contrast to the null effect following twice-daily s.c. injection, 8-OH-DPAT (2.0 mg/kg/day) delivered by s.c. osmotic pumps increased proliferation in intact rats. The 5-HT1A antagonist WAY-100635 (1.5 mg/kg/day also delivered by osmotic pump) by itself did not alter cell proliferation, confirming that reduced serotonin activity does not change proliferation, but blocked the effect of 8-OH-DPAT. However, WAY-100635 could not block the stimulating action of adrenalectomy cell proliferation. 5-HT1A mRNA expression was not altered in the hippocampus by adrenalectomy. Thus, the effect of adrenalectomy on cell proliferation and survival is not 5-HT1A dependent, despite the interaction between 5-HT1A and corticosterone.
Endocannabinoid signaling, mediated by presynaptic CB1 cannabinoid receptors on neurons, is fundamental for the maintenance of synaptic plasticity by modulating neurotransmitter release from axon terminals. In the rodent basal forebrain, CB1 cannabinoid receptor-like immunoreactivity is only harbored by a subpopulation of cholinergic projection neurons. However, endocannabinoid control of cholinergic output from the substantia innominata, coincident target innervation of cholinergic and CB1 cannabinoid receptor-containing afferents, and cholinergic regulation of endocannabinoid synthesis in the hippocampus suggest a significant cholinergic-endocannabinergic interplay. Given the functional importance of the cholinergic modulation of endocannabinoid signaling, here we studied CB1 cannabinoid receptor distribution in cholinergic basal forebrain territories and their cortical projection areas in a prosimian primate, the gray mouse lemur. Perisomatic CB1 cannabinoid receptor immunoreactivity was unequivocally present in non-cholinergic neurons of the olfactory tubercule, and in cholecystokinin-containing interneurons in layers 2/3 of the neocortex. Significantly, CB1 cannabinoid receptor-like immunoreactivity was localized to cholinergic perikarya in the magnocellular basal nucleus. However, cortical cholinergic terminals lacked detectable CB1 cannabinoid receptor levels. A dichotomy of CB1 cannabinoid receptor distribution in frontal (suprasylvian) and parietotemporal (subsylvian) cortices was apparent. In the frontal cortex, CB1 cannabinoid receptor-containing axons concentrated in layers 2/3 and layer 6, while layer 4 and layer 5 were essentially devoid of CB1 cannabinoid receptor immunoreactivity. In contrast, CB1 cannabinoid receptors decorated axons in all layers of the parietotemporal cortex with peak densities in layer 2 and layer 4. In the hippocampus, CB1 cannabinoid receptor-containing terminals concentrated around pyramidal cell somata and proximal dendrites in the CA1-CA3 areas, and granule cell dendrites in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. CB1 cannabinoid receptors frequently localized to inhibitory GABAergic terminals while leaving glutamatergic boutons unlabeled. Aging did not affect either the density or layer-specific distribution of CB1 cannabinoid receptor-immunoreactive processes. We concluded that organizing principles of CB1 cannabinoid receptor-containing neurons and their terminal fields within the basal forebrain are evolutionarily conserved between rodents and prosimian primates. In contrast, the areal expansion and cytoarchitectonic differentiation of neocortical subfields in primates is associated with differential cortical patterning of CB1 cannabinoid receptor-containing subcortical and intracortical afferents.

A link between temporal lobe epilepsy (the most common epileptic syndrome in adults) and neuropeptides has been established. Among neuropeptides, the possible involvement of bradykinin has recently received attention. An autoradiographic analysis has shown that B1 receptors, which are physiologically absent, are expressed at high levels in the rat brain after completion of kindling, a model of temporal lobe epilepsy. Thus, the present work aimed at investigating the functional implications of this observation, by studying the effect of B1 receptor activation on extracellular glutamate levels in the kindled hippocampus. Microdialysis experiments have been performed in two groups of rats, control and kindled. Glutamate outflow has been measured under basal conditions and after chemical stimulation with high K+ (100 mM in the dialysis solution). Basal glutamate outflow in kindled animals was significantly higher than in controls. High K+-evoked glutamate outflow was also more pronounced in kindled animals, consistent with the latent hyperexcitability of the epileptic tissue. The B1 receptor agonist Lys-des-Arg9-BK induced an increase of basal and high K+-evoked glutamate outflow in kindled but not in control rats, and the selective B1 receptor antagonist R-715 prevented both these effects. Furthermore, R-715 significantly reduced high K+-evoked glutamate outflow when applied alone. These data suggest that the bradykinin system contributes to the modulation of epileptic neuronal excitability through B1 receptors.
Brain-reactive auto-antibodies appear as key elements in the progressive CNS disturbances associated with systemic lupus erythematosus. The BxSB lupus prone mice are a model of this pathology, in which a gene located on the Y chromosome provokes a sex specific morbidity in males. This study was aimed to establish and characterize the relationships between behavioral disorders, neurological deficiencies and the aged-related immunological perturbations in this murine model. For this purpose, spatial and motor abilities were evaluated in male and female mice at six and 26 weeks of age. The results showed that the older males were greatly altered in their spatial abilities while the young ones and the females, whatever their age, were not. None of the animals had motor skill and motor learning disabilities. These spatial alterations were associated with modifications of basal neuronal activity measured by the cytochrome oxidase histochemical method in several areas directly or indirectly involved in spatial behavior, such as the hippocampus, the amygdala, the parietal and perirhinal cortex. Immunological study allowed us to correlate the behavioral abnormalities to the appearance of antibodies reactivities against cellular and nuclear components.
Despite the knowledge that women are more susceptible than men to stress-related mental illness, such as major depression, there is no comprehensive estimation of the role of gender in the detrimental effects of chronic stress that might cause depression. Sex differences regarding the association of behavioral parameters with serotonergic and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activities were investigated in the chronic mild stress model of depression. Additionally, the impact of chronic mild stress exposure on an additional/novel short-term stressful procedure, such as the forced swim test was examined in male and female rats. Female rats were found to be more vulnerable to chronic mild stress and that was depicted with disruption of sucrose intake, decreases in open field activity, increased corticosterone levels, alteration in estrous cycle and decreased serotonergic activity in hippocampus and hypothalamus. On the contrary, in males the current chronic mild stress protocol elicited only behavioral changes, such as disruption in sucrose intake and decreased open field activity. Interestingly, in response to forced swim test, females previously subjected to chronic mild stress, were found to cope better by exhibiting increased active behavior in the second forced swim test session and higher hypothalamic serotonergic activity in comparison with corresponding males. On the other hand, males were more affected by previous chronic mild stress exposure and that was manifested by decreased active behavior in the first forced swim test session and increased corticosterone levels following second forced swim test session. These data indicate that although females are more vulnerable in the application of chronic mild stress than males, in response to an additional-novel stressor (forced swim test) they show better response. Therefore, both sex/gender and combination of stressful procedures should be carefully considered in the study of the pathophysiology of stress-related mental illnesses.
The effects of carnosine (beta-alanyl-L-histidine) on amygdaloid-kindled seizures were investigated in rats. I.p. injection of carnosine (500, 1000, 1500 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly decreased seizure stage, afterdischarge duration and generalized seizure duration, and significantly prolonged generalized seizure latency of amygdaloid-kindled seizures, in a dose-dependent, and time-related manner. The protective effect of carnosine (1500 mg/kg) was completely antagonized by histamine H1-antagonists pyrilamine (2, 5 mg/kg, i.p.) and diphenhydramine (5, 10 mg/kg, i.p.), but not by histamine H2-antagonist zolantidine even at a high dose of 10 mg/kg. Carnosine (1500 mg/kg, i.p.) caused a significant increase of carnosine and histidine levels in the hypothalamus, thalamus, hippocampus, amygdala and cortex, as well as histamine levels in the hippocampus and amygdala. I.c.v. injection of alpha-fluoromethylhistidine (50 microg, i.c.v.), a selective and irreversible histidine decarboxylase inhibitor, only partially reversed the inhibition of amygdaloid-kindled seizures induced by carnosine. In addition, carnosine significantly decreased glutamate contents in the amygdala and hippocampus. These results indicate that carnosine could protect against amygdaloid-kindled seizures in rats, and its action may be due to the activation of histamine postsynaptic H1-receptors via two different mechanisms, one being carnosine's direct action, and the other being indirectly mediated by histaminergic pathway. The study suggests that carnosine may be an endogenous anticonvulsant factor in the brain and could be used as a new antiepileptic drug in the future.
The bed nucleus of stria terminalis is a basal forebrain region involved in regulation of hormonal and behavioral responses to stress. In this report we demonstrate that bed nucleus of stria terminalis has a high and localized expression of tissue plasminogen activator, a serine protease with neuromodulatory properties and implicated in neuronal plasticity. Tissue plasminogen activator activity in the bed nucleus of stria terminalis is transiently increased in response to acute restraint stress or i.c.v. administration of a major stress mediator, corticotropin-releasing factor. We show that tissue plasminogen activator is important in bed nucleus of stria terminalis function using two criteria: 1, Neuronal activation in this region as measured by c-fos induction is reduced in tissue plasminogen activator-deficient mice; and 2, a bed nucleus of stria terminalis-dependent behavior, potentiation of acoustic startle by corticotropin-releasing factor, is attenuated in tissue plasminogen activator-deficient mice. These studies identify a novel site of tissue plasminogen activator expression in the mouse brain and demonstrate a functional role for this protease in the bed nucleus of stria terminalis.
Prolonged increases in the level of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interferon-gamma occur in the CNS during some disease states associated with persistent pain. Administration of interferon-gamma to both humans and rodents has produced pain or pain-related behavior but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. The present study examined the effects of repeated intrathecal administration of interferon-gamma on dorsal horn neuronal responses under in vivo conditions. In addition, behavioral effects of interferon-gamma treatment were studied. Intrathecal cannulae were implanted into anesthetized rats. Animals then received either 1000 U of recombinant rat interferon-gamma in 10 microl buffer intrathecally, repeated four times over 8 days, or similarly administered buffer (controls). Interferon-gamma-treated animals showed a significant reduction in paw withdrawal threshold to mechanical stimulation of the hind paw. Electrophysiological experiments were performed under halothane anesthesia. Extracellular recordings of spontaneous and evoked responses were obtained from dorsal horn neurons (n=64) in the lumbar spinal cord. There was a significantly higher proportion of spontaneously active neurons in the interferon-gamma-treated animals (50%) when compared with controls (19%). A significantly increased proportion of neurons from interferon-gamma-treated animals displayed afterdischarges following both innocuous and noxious mechanical stimulation of the receptive field (brush: 21% in interferon-gamma-treated, 3% in controls; pinch: 97% in interferon-gamma-treated, 50% in controls). Neurons from interferon-gamma-treated animals also showed significantly increased wind-up of action potentials in response to repeated electrical stimulation of the sciatic nerve at C-fiber strength at both 0.5 and 1 Hz. Paired-pulse inhibition, evoked through electrical stimulation of the cutaneous receptive field, was significantly decreased in neurons from interferon-gamma-treated animals at 50 and 100 ms inter-stimulus intervals. We propose that this demonstrated reduction in inhibition may underlie the enhanced excitatory responses. Such interferon-gamma-induced changes in evoked responses may contribute to persistent pain following damage or disease states in the nervous system.
The microinjection of nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3 into the rostro-dorsal pontine tegmentum of the cat evokes a state that is comparable to naturally-occurring rapid eye movement sleep. Using two experimental paradigms, we tested the hypothesis that neurotrophin high-affinity receptors (trkA and trkC, tropomyosin-related kinase A and C, respectively) mediate this effect. First, trk and fos immunohistochemistry were combined to determine whether tyrosine kinase receptor-containing neurons in the dorsal pontine tegmentum are active in cats that exhibit long-lasting periods of rapid eye movement sleep following the local microinjection of nerve growth factor. During approximately two hours of recording, nerve growth factor-treated cats spent 59.8% of the time in a rapid eye movement sleep-like state; vehicle-injected (control) animals remained in quiet wakefulness and non-rapid eye movement sleep. Whereas control and nerve growth factor-treated cats exhibited a similar mean number of trkA- and trkC-immunoreactive neurons in the dorsal pontine tegmentum, the number of trkA- and trkC-immunoreactive neurons that expressed Fos, i.e. double-labeled cells that are presumably activated, was significantly larger in cats that were injected with nerve growth factor. Axon terminals contained tyrosine kinase receptor immunoreactivity in this region; many were apposed to Fos-immunoreactive neurons. In addition, patterns of tyrosine kinase receptor and Fos immunoreactivity similar to those observed in nerve growth factor-injected cats were present, in conjunction with long-lasting rapid eye movement sleep, following the microinjection of carbachol into the dorsal pons. In a second series of studies, nerve growth factor or neurotrophin-3 was injected alone or after K-252a, a blocker of tyrosine kinase receptors, into the rostro-dorsal pontine tegmentum. Nerve growth factor or neurotrophin-3 alone produced, with a mean latency of 4 min, a rapid eye movement sleep-like state. However, neurotrophin injections preceded by K-252a were not effective in inducing rapid eye movement sleep. These results indicate that the activation of trkA and trkC receptors in neurons in the pontine tegmentum is responsible, at least in part, for the rapid eye movement sleep-inducing effect of nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3. Furthermore, the data suggest that these neurotrophins are capable of acting both pre- and postsynaptically to activate pontine neurons that are involved in the generation of rapid eye movement sleep.
The lateral hypothalamic area, containing orexin neurons, is involved in several aspects of autonomic regulation, including thermoregulation and energy expenditure. To determine if activation of lateral hypothalamic area neurons influences sympathetically-regulated thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue, we microinjected bicuculline (120 pmol, 60 nl, unilateral) into the lateral hypothalamic area in urethane/chloralose-anesthetized, artificially-ventilated rats. Disinhibition of neurons in lateral hypothalamic area evoked a significant increase (+1309%) in brown adipose tissue sympathetic nerve activity accompanied by parallel increases in brown adipose tissue temperature (+2.0 degrees C), in expired CO2 (+0.6%), in heart rate (+88 bpm) and in mean arterial pressure (+11 mm Hg). Subsequent microinjections of glycine (30 nmol, 60 nl) to inhibit local neurons in raphe pallidus or in dorsomedial hypothalamus or of glutamate receptor antagonists into dorsomedial hypothalamus promptly reversed the increases in brown adipose tissue sympathetic nerve activity, brown adipose tissue temperature and heart rate evoked by disinhibition of neurons in lateral hypothalamic area. We conclude that neurons in the lateral hypothalamic area can influence brown adipose tissue sympathetic nerve activity, brown adipose tissue thermogenesis and heart rate through pathways that are dependent on the activation of neurons in dorsomedial hypothalamus and raphe pallidus.
Corticosterone and exposure to stressful experiences have been reported to decrease hippocampal synaptic plasticity, in particular when relatively mild stimulation paradigms-presumably activating predominantly N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors-are being used. Using various stimulation paradigms and pharmacological approaches we tested therefore the hypothesis that elevated corticosterone levels, by activating glucocorticoid receptors, predominantly hamper N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor dependent synaptic plasticity in vitro. To address this, mouse hippocampal slices were treated for 20 min with corticosterone (100 nM) or vehicle and synaptic efficacy was examined 1-6 h later. First, we found that primed burst potentiation and synaptic potentiation after 10 Hz stimulation are predominantly N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor dependent, and are significantly suppressed after corticosterone treatment. Second, these latter effects were prevented by treating slices with the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone prior to and during corticosterone administration. Third, theta burst potentiation, which was shown to involve activation of both N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, voltage-dependent calcium channels and possibly other mechanisms, was not affected by corticosterone. However, theta-burst potentiation in the presence of nifedipine-singling out primarily the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor dependent component-was reduced by corticosterone. These results indicate that corticosterone, via glucocorticoid receptor activation, selectively hampers N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor dependent synaptic plasticity in vitro and leaves more complex forms of long term potentiation unaffected. We speculate that these effects are involved in the impairment of cognitive performance by corticosteroid hormones after exposure to stressful and traumatic experiences.
Numerous effector mechanisms have been discovered, which change body temperature and thus serve to maintain the thermal integrity of homeothermic animals. These mechanisms are driven by thermal signals that are processed by neurons in the hypothalamic preoptic area. To keep a tight control over body temperature, these neurons have to receive accurate thermal information. Although in vitro studies have shown the direct thermosensitive ability of neurons in the preoptic area, other observations suggest the existence of peripheral thermosensation and an ascending thermal pathway to the thermoregulatory center. Direct evidences for either one, or both are still missing. In the present study, brain, rectal, subcutaneous and skin surface temperatures were measured during 15, 30, 60 and 120 min of cold exposure (4 degrees C) in rats and compared with neuronal activation due to cold stress shown by c-fos in situ hybridization histochemistry. Subcutaneous and skin surface temperatures dropped continuously throughout the 120 min of cold exposure by 1.4 degrees C and 6.5 degrees C, respectively. However, during the first 30 min, brain and rectal temperatures increased by 0.3 degrees C and 0.25 degrees C, respectively, and even after 60 min of cold stress, brain temperature did not decrease under the level measured at 0 min. Since the brain temperature did not decrease, it is unlikely that intracranial thermoreceptors are involved in the transmission of &quot;cold&quot; thermal signal to induce thermoregulation. At 30 min of cold exposure, neurons in all known thermoregulatory areas (like the ventrolateral part of the medial preoptic nucleus, the lateral retrochiasmatic area, the lateral parabrachial nucleus and the peritrigeminal nucleus) were already maximally activated. These observations clearly indicate that the activation of neurons in the preoptic and several other thermoregulatory nuclei is induced in vivo by thermal signals originating in the periphery, and not in the CNS.
The generation of accurate motor commands requires implicit knowledge of both limb and environmental dynamics. The action of gravity on moving limb segments must be taken into account within the motor command, and may affect the limb trajectory chosen to accomplish a given motor task. Exactly how the CNS deals with these gravitoinertial forces remains an open question. Does the CNS measure gravitational forces directly, or are they accommodated in the motor plan by way of internal models of physical laws? In this study five male subjects participated. We measured kinematic and dynamic parameters of upward and downward arm movements executed at two different speeds, in both normal Earth gravity and in the weightless conditions of parabolic flight. Exposure to microgravity affected velocity profiles for both directions and speeds. The shape of velocity profiles (the ratio of maximum to mean velocity) and movement duration both showed transient perturbations initially in microgravity, but returned to normal gravity values with practice in 0 x g. Differences in relative time to peak velocity between upward versus downward movements, persisted for all trial performed in weightlessness. These differences in kinematic profiles and in the torque profiles used to produce them, diminished, however, with practice in 0 x g. These findings lead to the conclusion that the CNS explicitly represents gravitational and inertial forces in the internal models used to generate and execute arm movements. Furthermore, the results suggest that the CNS adapts motor plans to novel environments on different time scales; dynamics adapt first to reproduce standard kinematics, and then kinematics patterns are adapted to optimize dynamics.
Glycine receptors are ionotropic receptors formed by either the homomeric assembly of ligand-binding alpha subunits or the heteromeric combination of an alpha subunit and the auxiliary beta subunit. Glycine receptors in the brain are found at either pre- or post-synaptic sites. Rat supraoptic nucleus neurons express glycine receptors on the membrane of both their soma and dendrites within the supraoptic nucleus, and their axon terminals in the neurohypophysis. Taking advantage of the well-separated cellular compartments of this system, we correlated the structural properties of the receptors to their subcellular localization. Immunohistochemical study using the generic mAb4a antibody revealed that somatodendritic receptors were clustered, whereas axonal glycine receptors showed a more diffuse distribution. This was paralleled by the presence of clusters of the glycine receptor aggregating protein gephyrin in the supraoptic nucleus and its complete absence in the neurohypophysis. Moreover, another antibody recognizing the alpha1/alpha2 subunits similarly labeled the axonal glycine receptors, but did not recognize the somatodendritic receptor clusters of supraoptic nucleus neurons, indicative of structural differences between somatic and axonal glycine receptors. Furthermore, the subunits composing the somatic and axonal receptors have different molecular weight. Functional study further differentiated the two types of glycine receptors on the basis of their sensitivity to picrotoxin, identifying somatic receptors as alpha/beta heteromers, and axonal receptors as alpha homomers. These results indicate that targeting of glycine receptors to axonal or somatodendritic compartment is directly related to their subunit composition, and set the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system as an excellent model to study the mechanisms of targeting of proteins to various neuronal cellular compartments.
Positive modulators of AMPA receptors enhance synaptic plasticity and memory encoding. Facilitation of AMPA receptor currents not only results in enhanced activation of excitatory neurons but also increases the activity of inhibitory interneurons by up-modulating their excitatory input. However, little is known about the effects of these modulators on cells other than pyramidal neurons and about their impact on local microcircuits. This study examined the effects of members from three subfamilies of modulators (mainly CX516, CX546 and cyclothiazide) on excitatory synaptic responses in four classes of hippocampal CA1 neurons and on excitatory and disynaptically induced inhibitory field potentials in hippocampal slices. Effects on excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were examined in pyramidal cells, in two types of inhibitory interneurons located in stratum radiatum and oriens, and in stratum radiatum giant cells, a novel type of excitatory neuron. With CX516, increases in EPSC amplitude in pyramidal cells were two to three times larger than in interneurons and six times larger than in radiatum giant cells. The effects of CX546 on response duration similarly were largest in pyramidal cells. However, this drug also strongly differentiated between stratum oriens and radiatum interneurons with increases being four times larger in the latter. In contrast, cyclothiazide had similar effects on response duration in all cell types. In field recordings, CX516 was several times more potent in enhancing excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) than feedback or feedforward circuits, as expected from its larger influence on pyramidal cells. In contrast, BDP-20, a CX546 analog, was more potent in enhancing feedforward inhibition than either EPSPs or feedback inhibition. This preference for feedforward over feedback circuits is probably related to its higher potency in stratum radiatum versus oriens interneurons. Taken together, AMPA receptor modulators differ substantially in their potency and/or efficacy across major classes of neurons which is likely to have consequences with regard to their impact on circuits and behavior.
The dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation produces new neurons throughout adulthood in mammalian species. Several experimental statuses and factors regulating to neurogenesis have been identified in the adult dentate gyrus. For example, exposure to an enriched environment enhances neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus and improves hippocampus-dependent spatial learning. Furthermore, serotonin is known to influence adult neurogenesis, and learning and memory. However, the effects of long-lasting depletion of serotonin over the developing period on neurogenesis have not been investigated. Thus, we examined the influence of long-lasting serotonin depletion on environmental enrichment-induced neurogenesis and spatial memory performance. As reported previously, environmental enrichment significantly increased new neurons in the dentate gyrus. However, there was no improvement of the spatial learning test in adult rats in standard and in environmental enrichment housings. Intracisternal administration of the serotonergic neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine, on postnatal day 3 apparently reduced serotonin content in the adult hippocampus without regeneration. This experimental depletion of serotonin in the hippocampus of rats housed in an enriched environment had no effect on spatial memory performance, but produced significant decreases in the number of bromodeoxyuridine-labeled new cells in the dentate gyrus. These findings indicate that newly generated cells stimulated by environmental enrichment are not critical for improvements in hippocampus-dependent learning. Furthermore, numbers of bromodeoxyuridine-labeled cells in the dentate gyrus of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-injected rats did not differ between 1 day and 4 weeks after bromodeoxyuridine injection. These data suggest that survival of newly generated dentate gyrus cells remains relatively constant under long-lasting serotonin depletion.
Recent data suggest novel functional roles for cerebellar involvement in a number of neurologic diseases. Function of cerebellar neurons is known to be modulated by norepinephrine and adrenergic receptors. The distribution of adrenergic receptor subtypes has been described in experimental animals, but corroboration of such studies in the human cerebellum, necessary for drug treatment, is still lacking. In the present work we studied cell-specific localizations of alpha1 adrenergic receptor subtype mRNA (alpha 1a, alpha 1b, alpha 1d), and alpha2 adrenergic receptor subtype mRNA (alpha 2a, alpha 2b, alpha 2c) by in situ hybridization on cryostat sections of human cerebellum (cortical layers and dentate nucleus). We observed unique neuron-specific alpha1 adrenergic receptor and alpha2 adrenergic receptor subtype distribution in human cerebellum. The cerebellar cortex expresses mRNA encoding all six alpha adrenergic receptor subtypes, whereas dentate nucleus neurons express all subtype mRNAs, except alpha 2a adrenergic receptor mRNA. All Purkinje cells label strongly for alpha 2a and alpha 2b adrenergic receptor mRNA. Additionally, Purkinje cells of the anterior lobe vermis (lobules I to V) and uvula/tonsil (lobules IX/HIX) express alpha 1a and alpha 2c subtypes, and Purkinje cells in the ansiform lobule (lobule HVII) and uvula/tonsil express alpha 1b and alpha 2c adrenergic receptor subtypes. Basket cells show a strong signal for alpha 1a, moderate signal for alpha 2a and light label for alpha 2b adrenergic receptor mRNA. In stellate cells, besides a strong label of alpha 2a adrenergic receptor mRNA in all and moderate label of alpha 2b message in select stellate cells, the inner stellate cells are also moderately positive for alpha 1b adrenergic receptor mRNA. Granule and Golgi cells express high levels of alpha 2a and alpha 2b adrenergic receptor mRNAs. These data contribute new information regarding specific location of adrenergic receptor subtypes in human cerebellar neurons. We discuss our observations in terms of possible modulatory roles of adrenergic receptor subtypes in cerebellar neurons responding to sensory and autonomic input signals, and review species differences in cerebellar adrenergic receptor expression.
The present report summarizes studies combining an in vivo and in vitro approach, where asphyxia is induced in vivo at delivery time of Wistar rats, and the long term effects on hippocampus neurocircuitry are investigated in vitro with organotypic cultures plated at postnatal day seven. The cultures preserved hippocampus layering and regional subdivisions shown in vivo, and only few dying cells were observed when assayed with a viability test at day in vitro 27. When properly fixed, cultures from asphyxia-exposed animals showed a decreased amount of microtubule-associated protein-2 immunocytochemically positive cells (approximately 30%), as compared with that from controls. The decrease in microtubule-associated protein-2 immunocytochemistry was particularly prominent in Ammon's horn 1 and dentate gyrus regions (approximately 40%). 5-Bromo-2'deoxyuridine labeling revealed a two-fold increase in cellular proliferation in cultures from asphyxia-exposed, compared with that from control animals. Furthermore, confocal microscopy and quantification using the optical disector technique demonstrated that in cultures from asphyxia-exposed animals approximately 30% of 5-bromo-2'deoxyuridine-positive cells were also positive to microtubule-associated protein-2, a marker for neuronal phenotype. That proportion was approximately 20% in cultures from control animals. Glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunocytochemistry and Fast Red nuclear staining revealed that the core of the hippocampus culture was surrounded by a well-developed network of glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells and glial fibrillary acidic protein-processes providing an apparent protective shield around the hippocampus. That shield was less developed in cultures from asphyxia-exposed animals. The increased mitotic activity observed in this study suggests a compensatory mechanism for the long-term impairment induced by perinatal asphyxia, although it is not clear yet if that mechanism leads to neurogenesis, astrogliogenesis, or to further apoptosis.
Glutamic acid decarboxylase and GABA immunoreactivities were qualitatively and quantitatively evaluated in the cerebellar cortex of adult rats prenatally exposed to a low concentration of carbon monoxide (75 parts per million). Carbon monoxide-exposed and control rats were perfused with modified Bouin's fluid and their cerebella were embedded in paraffin. Sections from the vermis of each cerebellum were stained with Toluidine Blue or assayed with anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase 65/67 or with anti-GABA antisera. In the Toluidine Blue-stained sections, no differences were observed in the microscopic structure of the cerebellar cortex between carbon monoxide-exposed rats and controls. The distribution patterns of glutamic acid decarboxylase and GABA immunoreactivities in the cerebellar cortex of the treated animals were qualitatively comparable to those of the controls, and in accordance with previous descriptions of glutamic acid decarboxylase and GABA immunoreactivities in the rat cerebellar cortex. However, quantitative analyses demonstrated a significant reduction of immunoreactivities to both substances in the exposed rats in comparison with the controls. The reduction regarded: in the molecular layer, the number of glutamic acid decarboxylase/GABA-immunoreactive neuronal bodies and of axon terminals and the area they covered; in the Purkinje neuron layer, the number and the area covered by glutamic acid decarboxylase/GABA immunoreactive axon terminals. The differences detected in the prenatally exposed adult rats could be due to carbon monoxide-induced impairment of the differentiation of cerebellar GABA synthesizing neurons. A consequently diminished synthesis of GABA might account for some behavioral disorders detected in adult rats submitted to the same experimental procedure.
To characterize the role of N-methyl-d-aspartate glutamate receptors in oscillations induced by a single electrical stimulation of the vomeronasal nerve layer, optical, field potential and patch clamp recordings were carried out in guinea-pig accessory olfactory bulb slice preparations. Bath application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid or MK-801, produced an increase in frequency of oscillating waves (oscillation) in external plexiform and mitral cell layers. The removal of Mg2+ from perfusate abolished oscillations, while subsequent application of 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid or MK-801 restored oscillations. Vomeronasal nerve layer-evoked postsynaptic currents were analyzed by whole-cell clamp recordings from mitral and granule cells. A long-lasting excitatory postsynaptic current and periodic inhibitory postsynaptic currents, which were superimposed on the long excitatory postsynaptic current, were observed in mitral cells. The frequency of the periodic inhibitory postsynaptic currents correlated with the frequency of oscillations observed in the optical and field potential recordings. Furthermore, periodic inhibitory postsynaptic currents were blocked by puff application of bicuculline to the external plexiform layer/mitral cell layer, where mitral cells make dendrodendritic synapses with granule cells. In addition, puff application of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, to the external plexiform layer/mitral cell layer suppressed an early phase of periodic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (membrane oscillation), whereas 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid suppressed the late phase of periodic inhibitory postsynaptic currents. These data indicate that periodic excitatory postsynaptic currents of granule cells induce relevantly periodic inhibitory postsynaptic currents in mitral cells via dendrodendritic synapses and suggest that feedback inhibition regulates generation of oscillation via activation of non-N-methyl-d-aspartate glutamate receptors and gradual attenuation of oscillation via activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors on granule cells.
The role of central serotonin 3 receptors on neural activities recorded from superficial laminae of trigeminal subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical spinal cord junction region was investigated using rats with (Complete Freund's Adjuvant day 7 group) or without (non-Complete Freund's Adjuvant group) persistent temporomandibular joint inflammation evoked by Complete Freund's Adjuvant for 7 days. We identified two types of units, Deep-wide dynamic range units and Skin-wide dynamic range units from extracellular recordings. Deep-wide dynamic range units have mechanoreceptive fields in the deep craniofacial tissues including masseter muscle but do not have cutaneous mechanoreceptive fields. Deep-wide dynamic range unit discharges evoked by the formalin injection into masseter muscle were significantly enhanced in the late phase in Complete Freund's Adjuvant day 7 group. Discharges of Skin-wide dynamic range units evoked by the noxious pinch stimulation to facial skin in Complete Freund's Adjuvant day 7 group were significantly enhanced compared with those in non-Complete Freund's Adjuvant group. Topical administration of central serotonin 3 receptor antagonist, tropisetron, onto trigeminal subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical spinal cord junction region significantly reduced both formalin-evoked Deep-wide dynamic range unit and pinch-evoked Skin-wide dynamic range unit discharges in non-Complete Freund's Adjuvant and Complete Freund's Adjuvant day 7 groups significantly. The inhibitory effects of tropisetron on pinch-evoked Skin-wide dynamic range unit discharges were prolonged in Complete Freund's Adjuvant day 7 group compared with those in non-Complete Freund's Adjuvant group. The role of central serotonin 3 receptors in trigeminal subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical spinal cord junction region was also tested by orofacial formalin test in Complete Freund's Adjuvant day 7 group. Intracisternal administration of tropisetron decreased the orofacial nocifensive behavior in the late phase evoked by the injection of formalin into the masseter muscle. These results suggest that central serotonin 3 receptors in trigeminal subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical spinal cord junction region are involved in mediating pronociceptive effects in both superficial and deep craniofacial tissues nociception during persistent temporomandibular joint inflammation.
Ephrins are guidance cues that modulate axonal growth and the subsequent axonal topographic maps in many regions of the CNS. Here we studied the functional roles of ephrin-A/EphA interactions in the layer-specific pattern of axonal projections in the hippocampus by disrupting the ephrin-A signaling by over-expression of a soluble EphA receptor. Tracing experiments in EphA5-Fc over-expressing mice revealed that reduction of ephrin-A/EphA interactions did not affect the proper distribution of the main hippocampal afferents, i.e. entorhinal and commissural projections. However, further ultrastructural analyses showed a reduction in the density of synaptic terminals in the entorhinal and commissural termination layers in these mice. In addition, using anti-calbindin antibodies, we analyzed the dentate mossy fiber projections following disruption of ephrin-A/EphA interactions throughout developing hippocampus. While the main mossy fiber bundle appeared normal, the infrapyramidal bundle formed longer projections that established ectopic contacts in these transgenic mice. Later, the expected specific pruning of the infrapyramidal bundle was not observed at adult stages. Ultrastructural analyses confirmed a higher number of mossy fiber terminals in the infrapyramidal bundle in adult EphA5-Fc transgenic mice and showed that these terminals were larger and established a greater number of contacts than in controls. Our results demonstrate that ephrin-A/EphA interactions regulate the synaptogenesis of hippocampal afferents and the proper development and refinement of granule cell projections.
The endogenous pentapeptide enkephalins bind to the mu and delta opioid receptors, with a slightly higher affinity for the latter. It remains a controversy regarding the respective physiological role of mu and delta opioid receptors in the control of emotion and motivation. One of the difficulties to investigate this problem is the low tonic extracellular release of enkephalins in various brain structures. To overcome this problem the synaptic levels of these pentapeptides were enhanced by inhibition of enzymes involved in their catabolism with the selective inhibitor H3N-CH(CH2-CH2-S-CH3)-CH2-S-S-CH2-CH(CH2phi)-CONH-CH(CH2phi)-COOCH2phi (RB101). This compound was shown to increase the extracellular levels and lifetime of endogenous enkephalins. Similar responses were obtained in wild-type and mu opioid receptor knockout mice following RB 101 administration in behavioral tests measuring locomotor activity, anxiety (elevated O-maze), and motivation (forced swim test and conditioned suppression of motility). In contrast, RB 101 led to antinociceptive responses only in wild-type animals using hot plate and tail immersion tests. These results clearly demonstrate the critical role of delta opioid receptors activated by the endogenous opioid peptides, in the physiological control of emotion- and motivation-related behaviors. In contrast, antinociceptive modulation, at least with respect to thermal nociceptive stimuli, involves enkephalin-activated mu opioid receptors. These findings could open new perspectives in the treatment of mood disorders using either inhibitors of enkephalin catabolism or delta opioid agonists.
Alpha-synuclein is a synaptic associated protein that is found throughout the brain. Although its function is not fully understood, various roles have been proposed, including the mobilization of synaptic vesicles and plasticity. However, interest in this molecule is mainly focused on its role in neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease, where it is a major component in cellular inclusions. Although it is widely accepted that alpha-synuclein is distributed to terminals and fibers throughout the brain, the identity of the pathways that contain this protein is not known. To address this issue, we combined immunocytochemistry with anterograde tract-tracing in mouse to identify the projections that are alpha-synuclein immunopositive. We find that it is present in corticostriatal, nigrostriatal and striatonigral terminals. Our data support the concept that alpha-synuclein is normally present in at least some of the terminals of inclusion-forming neurons, but that it is also present in the axonal boutons of neurons that do not apparently accumulate this protein pathologically.
We studied the neuronal basis of the motivational response to two powerful but radically different rewards-cocaine and maternal nurturing of pups in the postpartum rat (dam) which is in a unique motivational state. We used a place preference method designed to offer a choice between cues associated with a natural reinforcer (pups) and those associated with a pharmacologic reinforcer (cocaine). Using c-Fos or cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) immunocytochemistry, we identified the neuronal groups that are activated when the dams expressed a preference for either cues-associated with pups or cues-associated with cocaine. Dams that preferred the cocaine-associated cues had more c-Fos positive neurons in medial prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and basolateral nucleus of amygdala than pup-associated cue preferring dams or control. Except for the accumbens, there was activation of neurons in these same regions with the pup-associated cue preference. In the nucleus accumbens only CART-immunoreactive (not c-Fos) neurons were activated with pup-cue preference. Notably, the medial preoptic area was the single area where greater activation of neurons was seen with a preference for pup-associated versus cocaine-associated cues. These responses were identified in the absence of the stimuli (cocaine or pups) and are proposed to be, in part, activation of these neurons related to motivational processing. Neither the distribution of neurons responding to pup-associated cue preference nor the demonstration that CART-expressing neurons are responsive to reward-associated cue preference has been previously reported. We hypothesize that the expression of preference for cocaine versus pup-associated cues is made possible by the concerted activity of these regionally distributed networks of neurons that are in part specific to the preference response.
Anabolic androgenic steroids are synthetic derivatives of testosterone designed for therapeutic uses, but now taken as drugs of abuse. Potential health risks associated with anabolic androgenic steroid abuse are believed to be higher in adolescents than in adults, but few studies have tested anabolic androgenic steroid effects in adolescent subjects or determined if effects of these steroids differ between females and males. We have studied GABA(A) receptor expression and function in the medial preoptic nucleus of mice chronically treated during adolescence with the anabolic androgenic steroid, 17alpha-methyltestosterone. Three-week treatment did not elicit significant differences the expression of alpha1, alpha2 or alpha5 subunit mRNAs in animals of either sex, although there was a trend toward decreases in all three subunit mRNAs in female mice, which was augmented and attained significance for the alpha2 subunit mRNA in females treated for six weeks. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed that treatment with 17alpha-methyltestosterone for 6 weeks also elicited a significant decrease in the number of alpha2-immunopositive neurons in female subjects. To test if anabolic androgenic steroid treatment also promoted changes in GABA(A) receptor function, spontaneous inhibitory synaptic currents were analyzed in adolescent animals treated for 3-4 weeks. This treatment regimen promoted a significant decrease in spontaneous inhibitory synaptic current frequency in female, but not male mice. Finally, anabolic androgenic steroid treatment was found to have no effect on the numbers of interneurons within the medial preoptic nucleus, as assessed by immunoreactivity for calcium binding proteins, suggesting that the decrease in the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory synaptic currents in female mice does not arise from an anabolic androgenic steroid-induced loss of interneurons. Taken together, our results indicate that chronic exposure to 17alpha-methyltestosterone elicits significant changes in GABAergic transmission in the medial preoptic nucleus of female, but not male, mice effectively enhancing the sexually dimorphic nature of GABAergic transmission in a forebrain region crucial for the expression of aggression and sexual behaviors.
In hippocampal pyramidal neurons from aged animals voltage-gated Ca2+ entry and the slow, post-burst afterhyperpolarization are enhanced. As a result, there is a decrease in neuronal excitability and, in turn, an alteration in synaptic plasticity. Restricting the caloric intake of a rodent is a well-known paradigm for increasing lifespan and ameliorating a number of neurodegenerative features of aging, including deficits in synaptic plasticity and cognition. Here we show in rat CA1 pyramidal neurons from aged animals (18-20 months old) that a restricted diet prevents the enhancement of dendritic spike-mediated Ca2+ accumulation. In contrast, no significant changes in the rates of Ca2+ recovery were observed suggesting that Ca2+ clearance mechanisms are not affected by aging or caloric restriction. Lastly, we found that caloric restriction also prevented the aging-associated increase in the slow, post-burst afterhyperpolarization. Our results suggest that caloric restriction-sensitive changes in Ca2+ accumulation and membrane excitability may in part account for the protective effects of dietary restriction on synaptic plasticity and learning deficits in aged animals.
Responses of mouse preoptic and anterior hypothalamic neurons to variations of temperature are key elements in regulating the setpoint of homeotherms. The goal of the present work was to assess the relevance of culture preparations for investigating the cellular mechanisms underlying thermosensitivity in hypothalamic cells. Our working hypothesis was that some of the main properties of preoptic/anterior hypothalamic neurons in culture are similar to those reported by other authors in slice preparations. Indeed, cultured preoptic/anterior hypothalamic neurons share many of the physiological and morphological properties of neurons in hypothalamic slices. They display heterogenous dendritic arbors and somatic shapes. Most of them are GABAergic and their activity is synaptically driven by the activation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid/kainate receptors. Active membrane properties include a depolarizing &quot;sag&quot; in response to hyperpolarization, and a low threshold spike, which is present in a majority of cells and is generated by T-type Ca2+ channels. In a fraction of the cells, the low threshold spike repeats rhythmically, either spontaneously, or in response to depolarization. The background synaptic noise in cultured neurons is characterized by the presence of numerous postsynaptic potentials which can be easily distinguished from the baseline, thus providing an opportunity for assessing their possible roles in thermosensitivity. An unexpected finding was that GABA-A receptors can generate both hyper- and depolarizing postsynaptic potentials in the same neuron. About 20% of the spontaneously firing preoptic/anterior hypothalamic neurons are warm-sensitive. Warming (32-41 degrees C) depolarizes some cells, a phenomenon which is Na+-dependent and tetrodotoxin-insensitive. The increased firing rate of warm-sensitive cells in response to warming can be prepotential and/or synaptically driven. Overall, our data suggest that a warm-sensitive phenotype is already developed in cultured cells. Therefore, and despite obvious differences in their networks, cultured and slice preparations of hypothalamic neurons can complement each other for further studies of warm-sensitivity at the cellular and molecular level.
Extensive evidences now suggest that an association between inducible nitric oxide synthase and oxidative stress takes place during aging. Since the part played by inducible nitric oxide synthase in the sleep impairments associated with aging still remains unexplored, we compared its involvement in old rats (20-24 months) versus adult ones (3-5 months) using polygraphic, biochemical, voltammetric and immunohistochemical techniques. The experiments were conducted either in basal condition or after a systemic injection of selected inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitors. We found that 2-amino-5,6-dihydro-6-methyl-4H-1,3-thiazine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or aminoguanidine (400 mg/kg, i.p.) was capable to suppress rapid-eye-movement sleep and induce a delayed enhancement in slow-wave sleep in old rats. These effects did not occur in adult animals. Within the frontal cortex, the laterodorsal tegmentum and dorsal raphe nuclei, the basal inducible nitric oxide synthase activity was 85-200% higher in old rats than in adult ones. In contrast, the neuronal nitric oxide synthase activity did not vary in both groups. 2-Amino-5,6-dihydro-6-methyl-4H-1,3-thiazine administration significantly reduced inducible nitric oxide synthase activity (70-80% according to the brain areas) independently of age, but significantly decreased the cortical nitric oxide release in old rats. Finally, in frontal cortex and dorsal raphe immunohistochemical analysis showed inducible nitric oxide synthase-positive cells again only in old animals. These data support the idea that nitric oxide produced by inducible nitric oxide synthase plays a role in the triggering and maintenance of rapid-eye-movement sleep during aging.
The effect of interactions among mu- and delta-opioid receptors, especially the putative delta(1)- and delta(2)-opioid receptors, in the nucleus accumbens on accumbal dopamine release was investigated in awake rats by in vivo brain microdialysis. In agreement with previous studies, perfusion of the nucleus accumbens with the mu-, delta(1)- and delta(2)-opioid receptor agonists [D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO), [D-Pen(2,5)]-enkephalin (DPDPE) and [D-Ser(2)]Leu-enkephalin-Thr(6), respectively, significantly enhanced the extracellular amount of accumbal dopamine in a dose-related manner (5.0 nmol and 50.0 nmol). However, the highest concentration tested (50.0 nmol) of DAMGO induced a biphasic effect, i.e. a rapid onset increase lasting for 75 min followed by a slower onset gradual and prolonged increase. The mu-opioid receptor antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-d-Trp-Orn-Thr-Phe-Thr-NH(2) (0.15 nmol) primarily reduced the DAMGO-induced second component. The delta(1)-opioid receptor antagonist (E)-7-benzylidenenaltrexone (0.15 nmol) significantly reduced the first component and abolished the second component induced by DAMGO, while the delta(2)-opioid receptor antagonist naltriben (1.5 nmol) significantly reduced only the first component. The DPDPE (50.0 nmol)-induced dopamine increase was almost completely abolished by (E)-7-benzylidenenaltrexone, but only partially reduced by D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-d-Trp-Orn-Thr-Phe-Thr-NH(2) and naltriben. The [D-Ser(2)]Leu-enkephalin-Thr(6) (50.0 nmol)-induced dopamine increase was almost completely abolished by naltriben, but not at all by D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-d-Trp-Orn-Thr-Phe-Thr-NH(2) and (E)-7-benzylidenenaltrexone. The non-selective opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (0.75 and 1.5 nmol) dose-dependently reduced the effects of DAMGO, DPDPE and [D-Ser(2)]Leu-enkephalin-Thr(6) but only to about 10-25% of the control values. Moreover, perfusion with the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin (0.1 nmol) reduced the DAMGO-induced dopamine increase by 75%, while it almost completely abolished the increase induced by DPDPE or [D-Ser(2)]Leu-enkephalin-Thr(6). The results show that stimulation of mu-opioid receptors or, to a lesser degree, delta(1)-opioid receptors results in a large naloxone-sensitive increase and a small naloxone-insensitive increase of extracellular dopamine. It is suggested that the naloxone-insensitive component is also tetrodotoxin-insensitive. Furthermore, it is hypothesized that stimulation of mu-opioid receptors activates delta(1)-receptors, which in turn activate delta(2)-opioid receptors, thereby giving rise to a rapid onset increase of extracellular dopamine. In addition, it is hypothesized that stimulation of another group of mu-opioid receptors activates a second group of delta(1)-opioid receptors that is not coupled to delta(2)-opioid receptors and mediates a slow onset increase of extracellular dopamine. Finally, it is suggested that stimulation of delta(1)- or delta(2)-opioid receptors inhibits mu-opioid receptors involved in the slow onset increase in extracellular dopamine, whereas stimulation of delta(1)-, but not delta(2)-, opioid receptors is suggested to activate mu-opioid receptors involved in the rapid increase in extracellular dopamine.
Ca(v)2.1 channels mediate neurotransmitter release at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) and at many central synapses. Mutations in the encoding gene, CACNA1A, are thus likely to affect neurotransmitter release. Previously, we generated mice carrying the R192Q mutation, associated with human familial hemiplegic migraine type-1, and showed first evidence of enhanced presynaptic Ca(2+) influx [Neuron 41 (2004) 701]. Here, we characterize transmitter release in detail at mouse R192Q NMJs, including possible gene-dosage dependency, progression of changes with age, and associated morphological damage and muscle weakness. We found, at low Ca(2+), decreased paired-pulse facilitation of evoked acetylcholine release, elevated release probability, and increased size of the readily releasable transmitter vesicle pool. Spontaneous release was increased over a broad range of Ca(2+) concentrations (0.2-5mM). Upon high-rate nerve stimulation we observed some extra rundown of transmitter release. However, no clinical evidence of transmission block or muscle weakness was found, assessed with electromyography, grip-strength testing and muscle contraction experiments. We studied both adult ( approximately 3-6 months-old) and aged ( approximately 21-26 months-old) R192Q knockin mice to assess effects of chronic elevation of presynaptic Ca(2+) influx, but found no additional or progressive alterations. No changes in NMJ size or relevant ultrastructural parameters were found, at either age. Our characterizations strengthen the hypothesis of increased Ca(2+) flux through R192Q-mutated presynaptic Ca(v)2.1 channels and show that the resulting altered neurotransmitter release is not associated with morphological changes at the NMJ or muscle weakness, not even in the longer term.
The role of p38 and c-jun-N-terminal kinases 1/2, members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family, in mediating the toxic effects of human immunodeficiency virus-1 transactivator of transcription (Tat) and gp120 were explored in primary mouse striatal neurons in vitro. Both Tat and gp120 caused significant increases in p38 and c-jun-N-terminal kinase mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation, caspase-3 activity, neurite losses and cell death in striatal neurons. Tat-induced increases in caspase-3 activity were significantly attenuated by an inhibitor of c-jun-N-terminal kinase (anthra[1,9-cd]pyrazol-6(2H)-one), but not by an inhibitor of p38 ([4-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-(4-methylsul-finylphenyl)-5-(4-pyridyl)1 H-imidazole]), mitogen-activated protein kinase. However, despite preventing increases in caspase-3 activity, c-jun-N-terminal kinase inhibition failed to avert Tat-induced neuronal losses suggesting that the reductions in caspase-3 activity were insufficient to prevent cell death caused by Tat. Alternatively, gp120-induced increases in caspase-3 activity, neurite losses and neuronal death were prevented by p38, but not c-jun-N-terminal kinase, mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibition. Our findings suggest that gp120 induces neuronal dysfunction and death through actions at p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, while Tat kills neurons through actions that are independent of p38 or c-jun-N-terminal kinase mitogen-activated protein kinase, or through the concurrent activation of multiple proapoptotic pathways.
Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disease that shows not only movement disorder, but also profound urinary dysfunction. Bladder hyperactivity is the major urodynamic abnormality. Therefore, the basal ganglia have been thought to modulate the micturition reflex. In six male adult cats under ketamine anesthesia, in which spontaneous isovolumetric micturition reflexes had been generated, we measured levels of striatal dopamine, in micturition and storage phases, using in vivo microdialysis. The striatal dopamine level significantly increased in the storage phase as compared with that in the micturition phase. It is suggested that striatal dopamine may inhibit the micturition reflex via the dopamine D1 receptor-GABAergic direct striatal output pathway, and that disruption of this pathway may be what leads to bladder hyperactivity in patients with Parkinson's disease.
In order to know a role of phospholipase A2 in modulating nociceptive transmission, the effect of a secreted phospholipase A2 activator melittin on spontaneous glutamatergic excitatory transmission was investigated in substantia gelatinosa neurons of an adult rat spinal cord slice by using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Bath-applied melittin at concentrations higher than 0.5 microM increased both the amplitude and the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic current in a manner independent of tetrodotoxin; the latter effect of which was examined in detail. In 80% of the neurons examined (n = 64), melittin superfused for 3 min gradually increased spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic current frequency (by 65+/-6% at 1 microM; n = 51) in a dose-dependent manner (effective concentration for half-maximal effect = 1.1 microM). This effect subsided within 3 min after washout. The spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic current frequency increase produced by melittin was reduced by the phospholipase A2 inhibitor 4-bromophenacryl bromide (10 microM) while being unaffected by the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin (100 microM) and the lipoxygenase inhibitor nordihydroguaiaretic acid (100 microM). A similar increase in spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic current frequency was produced by exogenous arachidonic acid (50 microM); this effect was also unaffected by the cyclooxygenase or lipoxygenase inhibitor. Melittin failed to increase spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic current frequency in a nominally Ca2+-free or La3+-containing Krebs solution. We conclude that melittin increases the spontaneous release of L-glutamate to substantia gelatinosa neurons by activating secreted phospholipase A2 and increasing Ca2+ influx through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels in nerve terminals, probably with an involvement of arachidonic acid but not its metabolites produced by cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase. Considering that the substantia gelatinosa plays an important role in regulating nociceptive transmission, it is suggested that this transmission may be positively modulated by secreted phospholipase A2 activation in the substantia gelatinosa.
Cyclic AMP has been shown to have a critical role in learning and memory in invertebrates. Here we use the rat pup odor preference learning model in which odor acts as a conditioned stimulus and beta-adrenoceptor stimulation acts as an unconditioned stimulus to test the role of cyclic AMP in an associative mammalian paradigm. A phosphodiesterase inhibitor that prevents cyclic AMP breakdown (cilomilast) makes a low, learning-ineffective dose of a beta-adrenoceptor agonist (isoproterenol, 1mg/kg) an effective unconditioned stimulus in pup odor preference learning. A dose of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor (cilomilast, 1 mg/kg) that induces learning with a weak unconditioned stimulus interferes with learning using a normally optimal unconditioned stimulus (isoproterenol, 2 mg/kg). Cilomilast (3 mg/kg) paired with peppermint odor during learning, prolonged memory at least four times longer than without the drug (24 h vs. 96 h). These data demonstrate a causal role for cyclic AMP in the acquisition and duration of odor preference learning in the rat pup.
Cocaine self-administration experiments were designed to assess the respective roles of D1-like and D2-like dopamine receptors in the ventral forebrain in cocaine reinforcement. D1-like or D2-like dopamine receptor antagonists were microinjected into the nucleus accumbens core, nucleus accumbens shell, neostriatum or lateral septum prior to sessions in which cocaine was self-administered under a progressive ratio schedule by rats. The results indicated that administration of a D1/5 (SCH-23390) or a D2/D3/D4 (eticlopride), but not a D3 (U99194A) or D4 (L-750,667), dopamine receptor antagonist into the core and shell of the nucleus accumbens decreased the reinforcing efficacy of cocaine. However, in control experiments intra-accumbal core administration of SCH-23390 or eticlopride decreased food self-administration, whereas administration of these drugs into the accumbens shell had no effect on food reinforcement. Neither SCH-23390 nor eticlopride influenced cocaine reinforcement when administered into the neostriatum or lateral septum. Collectively, these results indicate that D1-like and D2 dopamine receptors in the nucleus accumbens shell selectively modulate the reinforcing efficacy of cocaine, whereas D1-like and D2 dopamine receptors in the accumbens core have a more general influence on reinforced behaviors.
Mitochondrial uncoupling proteins are a proton transporter family involved in regulation mitochondrial superoxide and ATP production. Uncoupling proteins are expressed by rat spiral ganglion and vestibular ganglion cells [Hear Res 196 (2004) 39]. This study tests the hypothesis that uncoupling protein expression is up-regulated in response to the reactive oxygen species challenge imposed by kanamycin and antioxidant (2,3-dihydroxybenzoate) treatment in mice. In control C57BL/6, CBA/J and BALB/c mice, mRNA for uncoupling protein 1, uncoupling protein 2, uncoupling protein 3, Slc25a27 (uncoupling protein 4) and Slc25a14 (uncoupling protein 5/BMCP1) was expressed in the spiral and vestibular ganglia. After kanamycin-treatment (700 mg/kg twice daily for 14 days s.c.), uncoupling protein 2 and uncoupling protein 3 mRNA expression increased significantly in spiral and vestibular ganglia and kidney, but was unaffected in cerebral cortex. Significant Slc25a27 (uncoupling protein 4) mRNA up-regulation was also observed in spiral and vestibular ganglia, but not in kidney or cerebral cortex. These effects were blocked by simultaneous administration of kanamycin and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate (300 mg/kg twice daily for 14 days s.c.). Western immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry confirmed the uncoupling protein 2 and uncoupling protein 3 up-regulation in inner ear. Finally, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate treatment alone produced an upregulation of uncoupling protein 1 mRNA in the spiral ganglion, vestibular ganglion and cerebral cortex, but not the kidney. Uncoupling protein 2 and uncoupling protein 3 upregulation in the kidney and inner ear ganglia likely reflects their general role as a feedback pathway to reduce mitochondrial superoxide generation. Slc25a27 (uncoupling protein 4) upregulation in the inner ear ganglia, by contrast, is likely to be a secondary response to kanamycin-induced hair cell death. We propose that increased uncoupling protein 2, uncoupling protein 3 and Slc25a27 expression has several neuroprotective effects via reduction in mitochondrial superoxide generation and local thermogenesis, including: (1) reducing mean ROS load to prevent apoptosis, (2) increasing signal-to-noise characteristics of intracellular ROS signaling pathways (e.g. lipoxygenases, growth factor and transcription factors), (3) heat-related alteration of enzyme kinetics and (4) promotion of cell depolarization (activation of heat-gated ion channels).
Abnormal secretion of steroids by the adrenals and gonads is one of the disturbances occurring in diabetics but the impact of diabetes on steroid formation in the nervous system has never been studied. However, it is well known that numerous actions of peripheral steroids on the nervous system require their conversion into neuroactive metabolites within the neural tissue. As this in situ steroid synthesis/metabolism is crucial for the control of several neurobiological functions, we investigated the effects of streptozotocin-induced diabetes on the gene expression and activity of 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase in the spinal cord, a pivotal structure involved in sensorimotor and neurovegetative mechanisms. 3beta-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase is a key enzyme which participates to the biosynthesis of all classes of steroids by converting delta5-3beta-hydroxysteroids such as pregnenolone and dehydroepiandrosterone into delta4-3-ketosteroids as progesterone and androstenedione, respectively. Reverse transcription coupled with quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction revealed that 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase gene was over-expressed in the spinal cord of streptozotocin-treated rats compared with controls. Pulse-chase experiments combined with high performance liquid chromatography and continuous flow detection of newly-synthesized steroids showed an increase of 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity responsible for a hyper-production of progesterone in the spinal cord of diabetic rats. This up-regulation of progesterone biosynthesis was concomitant with a decrease of its transformation into tetrahydroprogesterone, a process which facilitated progesterone accumulation in the spinal cord of streptozotocin-treated rats. Since progesterone is a potent neuroprotective steroid, increase of its production appeared as an endogenous molecular and biochemical mechanism triggered by spinal nerve cells to cope with degenerative effects of streptozotocin-induced diabetes. Our results constitute the first direct evidence showing an impact of diabetes on steroid biosynthetic and metabolic pathways in the nervous system. The data open new perspectives for the modulation of deleterious effects of diabetes by neuroprotective steroids.
Overexpression of Bcl-xl, a member of the Bcl-2 protein family, is reported to protect from a variety of stresses involving delayed cell death. We tested the ability of Bcl-xl overexpression to protect primary cultures of embryonic rat septal neurons subjected to one of four different stresses: 6 h of combined oxygen-glucose deprivation, which produces rapid cell death, or a 24 h exposure to hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, or 1mM 3-nitropropionic acid (an inhibitor of mitochondrial respiration), which results in a more slowly-developing death. Prior to the stress neurons were transiently transfected to overexpress either green fluorescent protein only or green fluorescent protein along with wild-type Bcl-xl. Immediately after oxygen-glucose deprivation, many neurons expressing green fluorescent protein only showed process blebbing and disintegration, with only 49% of the initial cells remaining intact with processes. Neurons expressing both green fluorescent protein and Bcl-xl showed less damage (68% intact post-stress, P&lt;0.05). This result indicates that Bcl-xl's saving effects are not due solely to blocking delayed (apoptotic) death, because death following oxygen-glucose deprivation was rapid and was not accompanied by increased activation of caspase-3. Bcl-xl expression also significantly protected against the hypoglycemic stress (23% intact 24 h post-stress with green fluorescent protein only, compared with 70% with Bcl-xl and green fluorescent protein), but did not protect from hyperglycemia or 3-nitropropionic acid. Thus Bcl-xl does not protect against all forms of delayed death. Bcl-xl's protective effects may include blocking early damaging events, perhaps by increasing mitochondrial function in the face of low levels of energy substrates. Bcl-xl's protective effects may require an intact electron transport chain.
3-Hydroxyglutaric acid (3HGA) accumulates in the inherited neurometabolic disorder known as glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency. The disease is clinically characterized by severe neurological symptoms, frontotemporal atrophy and striatum degeneration. Because of the pathophysiology of the brain damage in glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency is not completed clear, we investigated the in vitro effect of 3HGA (0.01-5.0mM) on critical enzyme activities of energy metabolism, including the respiratory chain complexes I-V, creatine kinase isoforms and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase in cerebral cortex and striatum from 30-day-old rats. Complex II activity was also studied in rat C6-glioma cells exposed to 3HGA. The effect of 3HGA was further investigated on the rate of oxygen consumption in mitochondria from rat cerebrum. We observed that 1.0mM 3HGA significantly inhibited complex II in cerebral cortex and C6 cells but not the other activities of the respiratory chain complexes. Creatine kinase isoforms and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase were also not affected by the acid. Furthermore, no inhibition of complex II activity occurred when mitochondrial preparations from cerebral cortex or striatum homogenates were used. In addition, 3HGA significantly lowered the respiratory control ratio in the presence of glutamate/malate and succinate under stressful conditions or when mitochondria were permeabilized with digitonin. Since 3HGA stimulated oxygen consumption in state IV and compromised ATP formation, it can be presumed that this organic acid might act as an endogenous uncoupler of mitochondria respiration. Finally, we observed that 3HGA changed C6 cell morphology from a round flat to a spindle-differentiated shape, but did not alter cell viability neither induced apoptosis. The data provide evidence that 3HGA provokes a moderate impairment of brain energy metabolism and do not support the view that 3HGA-induced energy failure would solely explain the characteristic brain degeneration observed in glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency patients.
Synaptotagmins (Syts) constitute a multi-gene family of 15 putative membrane trafficking proteins. The expression of some of the Syts in the brain might be dopaminergically controlled and thus affected by dopamine depletion in Parkinson's disease. We used hemiparkinsonian rats to investigate the effects of chronic striatal dopamine depletion and the acute effects of antiparkinsonic drug L-DOPA or D1 agonist (+/-)-6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide (SKF82958) on the levels of striatal Syt I, II, IV, VI, VII, X, XI mRNA isoforms. On the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned side we observed a nearly total loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), synaptotagmin I, Syt IV, Syt VII and Syt XI mRNA levels in the substantia nigra compacta (SNc). In dopamine-depleted striatum we also found a significant down-regulation Syt II and up-regulation of Syt X mRNA levels that could not be reversed by the acute treatment either with L-DOPA or SKF82958. By contrast, these two drugs induced an increase of Syt IV and Syt VII mRNA levels. A time-course study revealed the highest levels of Syt IV and VII mRNAs to occur at two hours and 12 hours after the treatment with SKF82958, respectively. D1 antagonist (+/-)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH23390) but not D2 antagonist haloperidol prevented the L-DOPA-driven increase of Syt IV and VII mRNAs. These results imply that synaptic plasticity in response to chronic striatal dopamine depletion involves a complex pattern of changes in striatal Syt mRNA expression. The L-DOPA treatment does not reverse the changes in Syt II and Syt X gene expression, but recruits additional, D1 receptor-mediated changes in Syt IV and Syt VII gene expression. Whether these D1 receptor-mediated changes play a role in the alterations of synaptic transmission that results in the unwanted side effects of chronic L-DOPA treatment in Parkinson's disease remains to be determined.
Neural signaling by melanin-concentrating hormone and its receptor (SLC-1) has been implicated in the control of energy balance, but due to the wide distribution of melanin-concentrating hormone-containing fibers throughout the neuraxis, its critical sites of action for a particular effect have not been identified. The present study aimed to anatomically and functionally characterize melanin-concentrating hormone innervation of the rat caudal brainstem, as this brain area plays an important role in the neural control of ingestive behavior and autonomic outflow. Using retrograde tracing we demonstrate that a significant proportion (5-15%) of primarily perifornical and far-lateral hypothalamic melanin-concentrating hormone neurons projects to the dorsal vagal complex. In the caudal brainstem, melanin-concentrating hormone-ir axon profiles are distributed densely in most areas including the nucleus of the solitary tract, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, and sympathetic premotor areas in the ventral medulla. Close anatomical appositions can be demonstrated between melanin-concentrating hormone-ir axon profiles and tyrosine hydroxylase, GABA, GLP-1, NOS-expressing, and nucleus of the solitary tract neurons activated by gastric nutrient infusion. In medulla slice preparations, bath application of melanin-concentrating hormone inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic currents evoked by solitary tract stimulation via a pre-synaptic mechanism. Fourth ventricular administration of melanin-concentrating hormone (10 microg) in freely moving rats decreased core body temperature but did not change locomotor activity and food and water intake. We conclude that the rich hypothalamo-medullary melanin-concentrating hormone projections in the rat are mainly inhibitory to nucleus of the solitary tract neurons, but are not involved in the control of food intake. Projections to ventral medullary sites may play a role in the inhibitory effect of melanin-concentrating hormone on energy expenditure.
Substantial experimental evidence exists suggesting a critical role for dopamine in reinforcer-related processes, such as learning and drug addiction. Dopamine receptors, and in particular D1 receptors, are widely considered as modulators of synaptic plasticity. The amygdala contains both dopamine terminals and dopamine D1 receptors and is intimately involved in motivation and learning. However, little is known about the involvement of D1 receptor activation in two subnuclei of the mammalian amygdala, the central nucleus and basolateral complex in instrumental learning. Following recovery from surgery and preliminary training, rats with bilateral indwelling cannulae aimed at the central nucleus or basolateral complex were trained to lever-press for sucrose pellets over 12 sessions. Infusion of the selective D1 antagonist R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (0.3 nmol and 3.0 nmol) prior to the first five training sessions dose-dependently impaired instrumental learning when compared with vehicle-infused controls. All rats were then exposed to five sessions drug-free; lever-pressing quickly reached equal levels across groups. A drug infusion prior to an 11th session revealed no effect on performance. Control experiments indicated that basic motivational processes and general motor responses were intact, such as spontaneous feeding and locomotor activity. These results show an essential role for D1-receptor activation in both the central nucleus and basolateral complex on the acquisition of lever pressing for sucrose pellets in rats, but not the performance of the behavior once conditioned. We propose that instrumental learning is dependent on plasticity in the central nucleus and basolateral complex amygdala, and that D1 receptor activation participates in transcriptional processes that underlie this plasticity.
Oxidative/nitrosative stress is involved in NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxic brain damage produced by the glutamate analog quinolinic acid. The purpose of this work was to study a possible role of peroxynitrite, a reactive oxygen/nitrogen species, in the course of excitotoxic events evoked by quinolinic acid in the brain. The effects of Fe(TPPS) (5,10,15,20-tetrakis (4-sulfonatophenyl)porphyrinate iron (III)), an iron porphyrinate and putative peroxynitrite decomposition catalyst, were tested on lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial function in brain synaptic vesicles exposed to quinolinic acid, as well as on peroxynitrite formation, nitric oxide synthase and superoxide dismutase activities, lipid peroxidation, caspase-3-like activation, DNA fragmentation, and GABA levels in striatal tissue from rats lesioned by quinolinic acid. Circling behavior was also evaluated. Increasing concentrations of Fe(TPPS) reduced lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial dysfunction induced by quinolinic acid (100 microM) in synaptic vesicles in a concentration-dependent manner (10-800 microM). In addition, Fe(TPPS) (10 mg/kg, i.p.) administered 2 h before the striatal lesions, prevented the formation of peroxynitrite, the increased nitric oxide synthase activity, the decreased superoxide dismutase activity and the increased lipid peroxidation induced by quinolinic acid (240 nmol/microl) 120 min after the toxin infusion. Enhanced caspase-3-like activity and DNA fragmentation were also reduced by the porphyrinate 24 h after the injection of the excitotoxin. Circling behavior from quinolinic acid-treated rats was abolished by Fe(TPPS) six days after quinolinic acid injection, while the striatal levels of GABA, measured one day later, were partially recovered. The protective effects that Fe(TPPS) exerted on quinolinic acid-induced lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial dysfunction in synaptic vesicles suggest a primary action of the porphyrinate as an antioxidant molecule. In vivo findings suggest that the early production of peroxynitrite, altogether with the enhanced risk of superoxide anion (O2*-) and nitric oxide formation (its precursors) induced by quinolinic acid in the striatum, are attenuated by Fe(TPPS) through a recovery in the basal activities of nitric oxide synthase and superoxide dismutase. The porphyrinate-mediated reduction in DNA fragmentation simultaneous to the decrease in caspase-3-like activation from quinolinic acid-lesioned rats suggests a prevention in the risk of peroxynitrite-mediated apoptotic events during the course of excitotoxic damage in the striatum. In summary, the protective effects that Fe(TPPS) exhibited both under in vitro and in vivo conditions support an active role of peroxynitrite and its precursors in the pattern of brain damage elicited by excitotoxic events in the experimental model of Huntington's disease. The neuroprotective mechanisms of Fe(TPPS) are discussed.
Jaw movement is intimately related to various oromotor and visceral functions such as feeding, swallowing, vocalization, respiration and cardiac function. Neuronal circuitry that links jaw movement and these visceral and oromotor functions is largely unknown. The purpose of this study is to determine whether the trigeminal proprioceptive and jaw-muscle spindle afferents send axons to and synapse with the motoneurons innervating visceral organs and laryngeal muscles utilizing multiple double-labeling and physiological approaches. Double labeling of anterograde tracing combined to retrograde transport was performed by injection of biotinylated dextran amine into the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus and cholera toxin B subunit or horseradish peroxidase into the vagus nerve and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus neuronal terminals contacted with visceral and laryngeal muscle motoneurons in the ambiguus nucleus and the nearby intermediate reticular zone. By electron microscopic observation, we confirmed that mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus terminals made asymmetric axodendritic synapses with these motoneurons. Double labeling of physiologically characterized jaw muscle spindle afferent neurons combined with anti-choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry showed that jaw-muscle spindle afferent boutons closely contacted choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive motoneurons in the ambiguus nucleus and intermediate reticular zone. This report is the first to demonstrate that the trigeminal proprioceptive afferents synapsed upon visceral and laryngeal muscle motoneurons and provide neuronal networks for the jaw-visceral and jaw-laryngeal coordination.
The role of calcium- and voltage-dependent big conductance potassium channels in regulating apoptosis was investigated in cultured type I spiral ligament fibrocytes. Incubation of type I spiral ligament fibrocytes derived from gerbil cochlea with cisplatin induced dose- and time-dependent apoptosis as demonstrated by annexin V conjugated to fluorescein isothiocyanate/prodidium iodide assays. The average voltage activation threshold of whole cell current was sharply shifted to -40 mV in the cisplatin-treated cells as compared with a value of 40 mV in control cells. The average whole-cell current of cisplatin-treated cells induced by a depolarization voltage step from -80 to -10 mV was increased significantly to 1.2+/-0.4 nA as compared with 0.08+/-0.1 nA in control cells. Coincubation with tetraethylammonium and cisplatin retained the whole cell current in the normal range (0.12+/-0.2 nA). The increment of cisplatin-induced whole-cell current was inhibited (97+/-5%) by a specific calcium- and voltage-dependent big conductance potassium channel blocker iberiotoxin. Consistent with this, co-incubation with tetraethylammonium significantly attenuated cisplatin-induced apoptosis in type I spiral ligament fibrocytes by more than 50%. We conclude that the activation of BK channels is an early event associated with cisplatin-induced apoptosis in type I spiral ligament fibrocytes. These findings also point to the calcium- and voltage-dependent big conductance potassium channels as a potential pharmacological target for manipulating cisplatin ototoxicity.
Relatively little attention has been focused on mechanisms related to neural plasticity and drug abuse in adolescence, compared with abundant research using adult animal models. As smoking is typically initiated in adolescence, an important question to address is whether the adolescent brain responds differently to nicotine compared with the adult. To investigate this question, we examined the expression of a number of early response genes (arc, c-fos and NGFI-B) that have been implicated in synaptic plasticity and addiction, following acute nicotine in adolescent and adult rats. Baseline expression of arc and c-fos was higher in adolescent brains compared with adults. Following acute nicotine treatment (0.1, 0.4mg/kg), we found a marked induction of arc mRNA in the prefrontal cortex of nicotine-treated adolescents compared with a less pronounced increase of arc in the adult. c-fos and NGFI-B were also upregulated by nicotine, but not in an age-related manner. In contrast, nicotine induced less arc, c-fos, and NGFI-B expression in the somatosensory cortex of adolescents compared with adults. A fourth gene, quinoid dihydropteridine reductase was expressed at lower levels in white matter of the adolescent forebrain compared with the adult, but was not affected by nicotine. These results suggest that in adolescence, the activity of specific early response genes is higher in brain regions critical for emotional regulation and decision-making. Further, nicotine affects key plasticity molecules in these areas in a manner different from the adult. Thus, adolescence may represent a neurobiologically vulnerable period with regard to nicotine exposure.
Alterations in brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression have been reported in multiple brain regions acutely after traumatic brain injury, however neither injury nor post-injury environmental enrichment has been shown to affect hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene expression in male rats chronically post-injury. Studies have demonstrated hormone-related neuroprotection for female rats after traumatic brain injury, and estrogen and exercise both influence brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels. Despite recent studies suggesting that exposure post-traumatic brain injury to environmental enrichment improves cognitive recovery in male rats, we have shown that environmental enrichment mediated improvements with spatial learning are gender specific and only positively affect males. Therefore the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of gender and environmental enrichment on chronic post-injury cortical and hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein expression. Sprague-Dawley male and cycling female rats were placed into environmental enrichment or standard housing after controlled cortical impact or sham surgery. Four weeks post-surgery, hippocampal and frontal cortex brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression were examined using Western blot. Results revealed significant increases in brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression in the frontal cortex ipsilateral to injury for males (P=0.03). Environmental enrichment did not augment this effect. Neither environmental enrichment nor injury significantly affected cortical brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression for females. In the hippocampus ipsilateral to injury brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression for both males and females was half (49% and 51% respectively) of that observed in shams housed in the standard environment. For injured males, there was a trend in this region for environmental enrichment to restore brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels to sham values. However, there were robust increases in hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression ipsilateral to the injury for injured females in environmental enrichment compared with both sham and injured females placed in standard housing (P&lt;or=0.005). In the hippocampus contralateral to injury, there were also significant injury-related increases in brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression for females (P&lt;or=0.05) that were not further augmented by environmental enrichment. These results show significant, region-specific gender differences in brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression with both injury and environmental enrichment that may be important for recovery. However, these data do not support a critical role for brain-derived neurotrophic factor in environmental enrichment mediated improvements with spatial learning.
Our group and others have demonstrated that 17beta-estradiol (E2) induces neurotrophic and neuroprotective responses in hippocampal and cortical neurons which are dependent upon the Src/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathways. The purpose of this study was to determine the upstream mechanism(s) that initiates the signaling cascade leading to E2-inducible neuroprotection. We tested the hypothesis that E2 activates rapid Ca(2+) influx in hippocampal neurons, which would lead to activation of the Src/ERK signaling cascade and up-regulation of Bcl-2 protein expression. Using fura-2 ratiometric Ca(2+) imaging, we demonstrated that E2 induced a rapid rise of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) within minutes of exposure which was blocked by an L-type Ca(2+) channel antagonist. Inhibition of L-type Ca(2+) channels resulted in a loss of E2 activation of the Src/ERK cascade, activation of cyclic-AMP response element binding protein (CREB) and subsequent increase in Bcl-2. Real-time intracellular Ca(2+) imaging combined with pERK immunofluorescence, demonstrated that E2 induced [Ca(2+)](i) was coincident with ERK activation in the same neuron. Small interfering RNA knockdown of CREB resulted in a loss of E2 activation of CREB and subsequent E2-induced increase of Bcl-2 expression. We further demonstrated the presence of specific membrane E2 binding sites in hippocampal neurons. Together, these data indicate that E2-induced Ca(2+) influx via the L-type Ca(2+) channel is required for E2 activation of the Src/ERK/CREB/Bcl-2 signaling. Implications of these data for understanding estrogen action in brain and use of estrogen therapy for prevention of neurodegenerative disease are discussed.
The central projections and neurochemistry of vagal afferent neurones supplying the heart in the rat were investigated by injecting cholera toxin B-subunit into the pericardium. Transganglionically transported cholera toxin B-subunit was visualized in the medulla oblongata in axons and varicosities that were predominantly aggregated in the dorsomedial, dorsolateral, ventrolateral and commissural subnuclei of the caudal nucleus of the solitary tract. Unilateral vagal section in control rats prevented cholera toxin B-subunit labeling on the ipsilateral side of the nucleus of the solitary tract. Fluorescent and electron microscopic dual labeling showed colocalization of immunoreactivity for vesicular glutamate transporter 1, but only rarely vesicular glutamate transporters 2 or 3 with cholera toxin B-subunit in terminals in nucleus of the solitary tract, suggesting that cardiac vagal axons release glutamate as a neurotransmitter. In contrast, populations of vagal afferent fibers labeled by injection of cholera toxin B-subunit, tetra-methylrhodamine dextran or biotin dextran amine into the aortic nerve, stomach or nodose ganglion colocalized vesicular glutamate transporter 2 more frequently than vesicular glutamate transporter 1. The presence of other neurochemical markers of primary afferent neurones was examined in nucleus of the solitary tract axons and nodose ganglion cells labeled by pericardial cholera toxin B-subunit injections. Immunoreactivity for a 200-kDa neurofilament protein in many large, cholera toxin B-subunit-labeled nodose ganglion cells indicated that the cardiac afferent fibers labeled are mostly myelinated, whereas binding of Griffonia simplicifolia isolectin B4 to fewer small cholera toxin B-subunit-labeled ganglion cells suggested that tracer was also taken up by some non-myelinated axons. A few labeled nucleus of the solitary tract axons and ganglion cells were positive for substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide, which are considered as peptide markers of nociceptive afferent neurones. These data suggest that the population of cardiac vagal afferents labeled by pericardial cholera toxin B-subunit injection is neurochemically varied, which may be related to a functional heterogeneity of baroreceptive, chemoreceptive and nociceptive afferent fibers. A high proportion of cardiac neurones appear to be glutamatergic, but differ from other vagal afferents in expressing vesicular glutamate transporter 1.
Repeated microinjections of morphine into the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray produce antinociceptive tolerance. This tolerance may be a direct effect of morphine on cells within the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray or may require activation of downstream structures such as the rostral ventromedial medulla or spinal cord. Experiment 1 examined whether tolerance develops when opioid receptors in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray are blocked prior to repeated systemic morphine administration. Microinjections of naltrexone hydrochloride (1microg/0.4microl) into the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray blocked antinociception and significantly attenuated the development of antinociceptive tolerance produced from systemic morphine administration. Experiment 2 examined whether tolerance develops when the effects of morphine are isolated to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. This was accomplished by microinjecting morphine (5microg/0.4microl) into the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray while simultaneously blocking the descending output through the rostral ventromedial medulla. Inhibition of neurons within the rostral ventromedial medulla by microinjecting the GABA(A) agonist muscimol (10ng/0.5microl) blocked the antinociception produced by microinjection of morphine into the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray but did not block the development of tolerance. These data demonstrate that the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray is both necessary and sufficient to produce tolerance to the antinociceptive effect of morphine. The ventrolateral periaqueductal gray is necessary in that tolerance does not develop if opiate action within the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray is blocked (experiment 1). The ventrolateral periaqueductal gray is sufficient in that tolerance occurs even when morphine's effects are restricted to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (experiment 2).
The nitric oxide generating neurons of the nucleus accumbens exert a powerful influence over striatal function, in addition, these nitrergic inputs are in a position to regulate the dopaminergic and glutamatergic inputs on striatal projection neurons. It was the aim of this study to establish the source of the glutamatergic drive to nitric oxide synthase interneurons of the nucleus accumbens. The nucleus accumbens nitric oxide-generating neurons receive asymmetrical, excitatory, presumably glutamatergic inputs. Possible sources of these inputs could be the limbic and cortical regions known to project to this area. To identify sources of the excitatory inputs to the nitric oxide synthase-containing interneurons of the nucleus accumbens in the rat we first examined the ultrastructural morphology of asymmetrical synaptic specializations contacting nitric oxide synthase-immunohistochemically labeled interneurons in the nucleus accumbens. Neurons were selected from different regions of the nucleus accumbens, drawn using camera lucida, processed for electron microscopic analysis, and the boutons contacting nitric oxide synthase-labeled dendrites were photographed and correlated to the drawings. Using vesicle size as the criterion the source was predicted to be either the prefrontal cortex or the ventral subiculum of the hippocampus. To examine this prediction, a further study used anterograde tracing from both the prefrontal cortex and the ventral subiculum, and nitric oxide synthase immunohistochemistry with correlated light and electron microscopy. Based on appositions by anterogradely labeled fibers, selected nitric oxide synthase-labeled neurons within the nucleus accumbens, were examined with electron microscopic analysis. With this technique we confirmed the prediction that subicular afferent boutons make synaptic contact with nitric oxide synthase interneurons, and demonstrated anatomically that nitric oxide synthase boutons make synaptic contact with the dendritic arbors of nitric oxide synthase interneurons. We suggest that the subicular input may excite the nitric oxide synthase neurons synaptically, while the nitric oxide synthase-nitric oxide synthase interactions underlie a nitric oxide signaling network which propagates hippocampal information, and expands the hippocampus's influence on 'gating' information flow across the nucleus accumbens.
Clinical observations and genetic studies have suggested a role for high-threshold voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) in the pathogenesis of migraine. This study investigated the role of P/Q-, L- and N-type VDCCs in post-synaptic action potential generation in trigeminovascular nociceptive afferents in the trigeminocervical complex (TCC) of the cat in vivo. Trigeminovascular nociceptive afferents were identified in the TCC by electrical stimulation of the superior sagittal sinus. Forty-six cell bodies were identified by their response to microiontophoresis of l-glutamate and their bipolar action potential shape. Blockade of VDCCs was accomplished by microiontophoresis of omega-agatoxin IVa/TK (P/Q-), omega-conotoxin GVIa (N-) and calciseptine (L-type). Non-selective antagonism was studied using cadmium ions. Non-selective blockade of high threshold VDCC with cadmium resulted in a reduction in l-glutamate-evoked neuronal activity (P=0.01). Blockade of P/Q: TK- (P&lt;0.001), IVA- (P=0.007), L- (P&lt;0.001) and N-type (P&lt;0.001) VDCCs resulted in significant reductions in post-synaptic action potential generation in response to l-glutamate. High threshold VDCCs, including P/Q-, L- and N-type VDCCs, can therefore modulate nociceptive transmission in the trigeminocervical complex in vivo. We discuss the evidence to suggest a role for VDCCs in the pathophysiology of primary headache disorders, and how abnormalities of function may contribute to their pathogenesis.
Opiates produce analgesia by activating mu opioid receptor-linked inhibitory G protein signaling cascades and related ion channel interactions that suppress cellular activities by hyperpolarization. After chronic opiate exposure, an excitatory effect emerges contributing to analgesic tolerance and opioid-induced hyperalgesia. Ultra-low-dose opioid antagonist co-treatment blocks the excitatory effects of opiates in vitro, as well as opioid analgesic tolerance and dependence, as was demonstrated here with ultra-low-dose naloxone combined with morphine. While the molecular mechanism for the excitatory effects of opiates is unclear, a switch in the G protein coupling profile of the mu opioid receptor and adenylyl cyclase activation by Gbetagamma have both been suggested. Using CNS regions from rats chronically treated with vehicle, morphine, morphine+ultra-low-dose naloxone or ultra-low-dose naloxone alone, we examined whether altered mu opioid receptor coupling to G proteins or adenylyl cyclase activation by Gbetagamma occurs after chronic opioid treatment. In morphine-nave rats, mu opioid receptors coupled to Go in striatum and to both Gi and Go in periaqueductal gray and spinal cord. Although chronic morphine decreased Gi/o coupling by mu opioid receptors, a pronounced coupling to Gs emerged coincident with a Gbetagamma interaction with adenylyl cyclase types II and IV. Co-treatment with ultra-low-dose naloxone attenuated both the chronic morphine-induced Gs coupling and the Gbetagamma signaling to adenylyl cyclase, while increasing Gi/o coupling toward or beyond vehicle control levels. These findings provide a molecular mechanism underpinning opioid tolerance and dependence and their attenuation by ultra-low-dose opioid antagonists.
A biophysical description of the denervated rat sympathetic neuron is reported, obtained by the two-electrode voltage-clamp technique in mature intact superior cervical ganglia in vitro. At membrane potential values negative to -50 mV, the normal, quiescent neuron displays voltage-dependent K and Cl conductances; following direct or synaptic stimulation (15Hz for 10 s), the neuron moves to a new resting state characterized by increased amplitude and voltage dependence of Cl conductance. Denervation produces two main effects: 1) resting Cl conductance gradually increases while its voltage-dependence decreases; by 30 days a high-conductance resting state prevails, almost independent of membrane potential in the -50/-110 mV range; 2) the increase in amplitude and voltage-dependence of Cl conductance, produced by direct stimulation in control neurons, is less marked in denervated neurons, and is observed over an increasingly small range of membrane potentials. Thirty days after denervation, the prevailing high-conductance resting state appears virtually insensitive to changes in membrane potential and stimulation. Voltage-dependent potassium currents involved in spike electrogenesis (the delayed compound potassium current and the fast transient potassium current) exhibit an early drastic decrease in peak amplitude in the denervated neuron; the effect is largely reversed after 6 days. Remarkable changes in fast transient potassium current kinetics occur following denervation: the steady-state inactivation curve shifts by up to +15 mV toward positive potential and voltage sensitivity of inactivation removal becomes more steep. A comprehensive mathematical model of the denervated neuron is presented that fits the neuron behavior under current-clamp conditions. It confirms that neuronal excitability is tuned by the conductances (mostly chloride conductance) that control the resting membrane potential level, and by fast transient potassium current. Impairment of the latter reduces both inward threshold charge for firing and spike repolarization rate, and fast transient potassium current failure cancels the voltage dependence of both processes.
We investigated long-term facilitation at the lobster neuromuscular synapse employing a combination of FM1-43 staining of synaptic vesicles, electron microscopy analysis, and electrical recordings of synaptic activity. Synaptic terminals were loaded with the fluorescent dye FM1-43 producing clusters of activity-dependent fluorescent spots. Electron microscopy analysis of synaptic ultrastructure suggested that fluorescent spots represent compartments of synaptic terminals filled with vesicles. Excitatory postsynaptic currents were recorded from the stained synaptic terminals using focal macropatch electrodes. Terminals were stained during the nerve stimulation at a low stimulation frequency (2, 5 or 10 Hz) before and after long-term facilitation was elicited by high-frequency stimulation (20 or 30 Hz for 5 min). We found that staining after long-term facilitation results in the appearance of new fluorescent spots, as well as in the increase in fluorescence of the spots that appeared before long-term facilitation. This increase in fluorescence accounted for the increase in quantal release. Activation of individual fluorescent spots was found to be non-uniform. In spite of overall increase in fluorescence, some synaptic compartments decreased their staining after long-term facilitation. Thus, our study demonstrates that long-term facilitation produces non-uniform activation of FM1-43 uptake in synaptic compartments that correlates with the increase in quantal neurosecretion.
We have localized cannabinoid receptor 2 protein in rat and mouse somatic sensory nervous system, using an antibody that recognizes mouse cannabinoid receptor 2. Little or no cannabinoid receptor 2 immunoreactivity was found in sections of naive rat or mouse dorsal root ganglia or spinal cord. This was in accord with the lack of detectable cannabinoid receptor 2 mRNA in (dorsal root ganglion) neurons by in situ hybridization experiments described in the literature. However, we could detect cannabinoid receptor 2 immunoreactivity following unilateral nerve damage-either by sciatic nerve section, or by spinal nerve ligation. It was localized to the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, ipsilateral to the nerve damage, coincident with the area of termination of damaged afferents which was marked by loss of isolectin B4 binding. This upregulation was not seen in cannabinoid receptor 2 null mice. The cannabinoid receptor 2 protein in spinal cord appeared to be expressed on sensory neuron afferent terminals as it colocalized with two markers of damaged afferents, namely growth associated protein-43 and the neuropeptide galanin. Moreover, it did not colocalize with markers of activated microglial cells (OX-42) or astroglial cells (glial fibrillary acidic protein) in rat spinal cord. In the peripheral nerve, accumulation of cannabinoid receptor 2 immunoreactivity was seen in nerve sections proximal, but not distal, to the ligation site, suggesting transport down the nerve from the cell bodies. Although convincing cannabinoid receptor 2 immunoreactivity was seen in neither uninjured nor injured dorsal root ganglion neuron cell bodies in tissue sections, expression was detectable in isolated, cultured neurons that had received a prior axotomy in vivo. This clear demonstration of CB(2) receptors on sensory neurons suggests an additional cellular target for CB(2) agonist induced analgesia, at least in neuropathic models.
The central actions of oxytocin on reproduction-related functions and behaviors are strongly steroid-dependent and gender specific. This study characterizes sexual differences in the oxytocin binding site expression in forebrain and spinal cord of the rat. Using film autoradiography, we quantified the density of oxytocin binding sites in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, the medial and central nuclei of the amygdala, the medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the spinal cord dorsal horns both in adult male and female rats, and during development. In addition, neonatal castrated males and intact neonatal females treated with a single injection of testosterone (1 mg) were examined. Data showed a sexual dimorphism in the expression of oxytocin binding sites in the spinal cord dorsal horns and in restricted areas of the forebrain that are sensitive to gonadal steroids such as the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, but not in gonadal steroid insensitive sites such as the central nucleus of the amygdala. Adult males had higher oxytocin binding site densities in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus and dorsal horns than females. In the forebrain, but not in the dorsal horn, this sexual difference required a perinatal exposure to testosterone. Neonatal castration only abolished the sexual difference in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus of adults, but not in the dorsal horn. Furthermore, females that received a single injection of testosterone 1 day after birth showed significant increases in the density of oxytocin binding sites in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, medial nucleus of the amygdala and medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. In addition, the findings suggest that the sexual difference in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus also requires gonadal hormones in adulthood. Our data support the hypothesis that sexually dimorphic oxytocin binding sites may contribute to the regulatory central actions of oxytocin in gender specific functions and behaviors such as nociception and reproduction.
The endogenous opioid system is known to have a great influence on the dopaminergic system. Conversely, blockade of the dopaminergic system in D2 receptor knock-out mice triggers an increase in enkephalin supporting the important physiological relationship between both systems. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate whether or not chronic treatment with the specific D2 antagonist amisulpride (20mg/kg, i.p., twice daily for 5 days) could lead to a facilitation of behavioral effects of enkephalins, protected from their enzymatic degradation by the dual inhibitor N-[(R,S)-2-benzyl-3[(S)(2-amino-4-methylthio)butyl dithio]-1-oxopropyl]-l-phenylalanine benzyl ester (RB101) (5mg/kg, i.v.) in mice. RB101 induced an increase in locomotor activity, antidepressant-like effects in the forced swim test, and antinociceptive effects in the hot-plate test. Chronic treatment with amisulpride potentiated the action of RB101 and this effect seemed to be restricted to behavioral responses induced by opioids acting on delta-opioid receptors (locomotor activity and forced swim test). This was confirmed by the use of the selective delta-opioid receptor agonist, (+)-4-[alpha-R*)-alpha-((2S*,5R*)-4-allyl-2,5-dimethyl-1-piperazinyl)-3-methoxybenzyl]-N,N-diethylbenzamide (SNC80; 2.5mg/kg, i.p.), and antagonist, naltrindole (5mg/kg, i.p.). Considering the involvement of delta-opioid receptors in mood regulation, the interaction between amisulpride and RB101 could lead to a new therapeutic approach in the treatment of some mood disorders.
Light is the major synchronizer of the mammalian circadian pacemaker located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Photic information is perceived by the retina and conveyed to the suprachiasmatic nucleus either directly by the retinohypothalamic tract or indirectly by the intergeniculate leaflet and the geniculohypothalamic tract. In addition, serotonin has been shown to affect the suprachiasmatic nucleus by both direct and indirect serotonin projections from the raphe nuclei. Indeed, systemic as well as local administrations of the serotonin agonist quipazine in the region of the suprachiasmatic nucleus mimic the effects of light on the circadian system of rats, i.e. they induce phase-advances of the locomotor activity rhythm as well as c-FOS expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus during late subjective night. The aim of this study was to localize the site(s) of action mediating those effects. Phase shifts of the locomotor activity rhythm as well as c-FOS expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus after s.c. injection of quipazine (10 mg/kg) were assessed in Lewis rats, which had received either radio-frequency lesions of the intergeniculate leaflet or infusions of the serotonin neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine into the suprachiasmatic nucleus (25 microg) or bilateral enucleation. Lesions of intergeniculate leaflet and serotonin afferents to the suprachiasmatic nucleus did not reduce the photic-like effects of quipazine, whereas bilateral enucleation and the subsequent degeneration of the retinohypothalamic tract abolished both the phase-shifting and the FOS-inducing effects of quipazine. The results indicate that photic-like effects of quipazine are mediated via the retinohypothalamic tract.
CF-1 male mice were trained in an inhibitory avoidance task using a high footshock (1.2mA, 50Hz, 1 s) in order to reduce the influence of extinction on retention performance. A single session of 5 min exposure to a hole-board (nose-poke behavior), either immediately after training or the first retention test (memory reactivation) impaired retention performance over two consecutive days. The effects were time-dependent since they were not observed when the exposure to the hole-board was delayed 3 h. When mice were habituated to the hole-board (5 min/day, 5 days), and then trained in an inhibitory avoidance task, the immediately post-training or memory reactivation exposure to the hole-board did not modify retention performance over two consecutive days. The effects of the post-reactivation acute exposure to the hole-board were long-lasting (21 days). Reinstatement was not observed in our experimental conditions. The non-spontaneous recovery of retention performance over 21-days and the lack of reinstatement, suggest that the impairment of retention performance observed was not probably due to a deficit in memory retrieval. These findings suggest that the exposure to a potential new learning situation impairs not only memory consolidation but also memory reconsolidation of the original learning task.
It is unknown whether the amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta), a principal component found in extracellular neuritic plaques in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), is capable of altering adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity and the somatostatin (SRIF) receptor-effector system in the cerebral cortex of the patients. Therefore, the objective of this study was to investigate the effect of the beta fragment, beta (25-35), on AC activity and the somatostatinergic system in the rat frontoparietal cortex. A single dose of beta (25-35) (10microg) injected intracerebroventricularly significantly decreased the density of SRIF receptors (27.4%) and increased their affinity (32.2%) in the frontoparietal cortex. The inhibitory effect of SRIF on basal and forskolin (FK)-stimulated AC activity was significantly lower in the beta (25-35)-treated rats when compared with controls. beta (25-35) did not modify Gialpha1, Gialpha2 nor Gialpha3 levels in membranes from the frontoparietal cortex. Continuous infusion of the peptide induced a decrease in the SRIF receptor density in this brain area to a similar extent as that observed 14 days after the single administration of the peptide. Likewise, this treatment decreased the SRIF receptor density in the frontal cortex (15.3%) and parietal cortex (27.2%). This effect was accompanied by a decrease in the SRIF-mediated inhibition of FK-stimulated AC activity (from 41.6% to 25.6%) in the frontal cortex as well by a decrease in basal AC activity (from 36.9% to 31.6%) and FK-stimulated AC activity (from 35.6% to 27.1%) in the parietal cortex. Continuous infusion of Abeta (25-35) had no effect on Gialpha1, Gialpha2 or Gialpha3 levels in membranes from frontal and parietal cortex. However, this treatment caused a decrease in SRIF-like immunoreactivity content in the parietal (38.9%) and frontal (20.4%) cortex. These results suggest that Abeta might be involved in the alterations of somatostatinergic system reported in AD.
Neurotoxicity in primary neurons was induced using hypoxia/hypoglycemia (H/H), veratridine (10microM), staurosporine (1microM) or glutamate (100microM), which resulted in 72%, 67%, 75% and 66% neuronal injury, respectively. 3-Aminopyridine-2-carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone (PAN-811; 10microM; Panacea Pharmaceuticals, Gaithersburg, MD) pretreatment for 24 h provided maximal neuroprotection of 89%, 42%, 47% and 89% against these toxicities, respectively. Glutamate or H/H treatment of cells increased cytosolic cytochrome c levels, which was blocked by pretreatment of cells with PAN-811. Pretreatment of neurons with PAN-811 produced a time-dependent increase in the protein level of Bcl-2, which was evident even after glutamate or H/H treatments. An up-regulation in the expression of the p53 and Bax genes was also observed following exposure to these neurotoxic insults; however, this increase was not suppressed by PAN-811 pretreatment. Functional inhibition of Bcl-2 by HA14-1 reduced the neuroprotective efficacy of PAN-811. PAN-811 treatment also abolished glutamate or H/H-mediated internucleosomal DNA fragmentation.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis is a key part of a ring of cells extending between the centromedial amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis referred to as the extended amygdala. The present study describes the architecture of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the connections of subnuclei in posterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. The hamster bed nucleus of the stria terminalis is readily allotted to anterior and posterior divisions separated by the fibers of the body of the anterior commissure. The anterior division has four subnuclei: anteromedial, anterointermediate, anterolateral, and anteroventral. Within the posterior division, there are three distinct regions: posteromedial, posterointermediate, and posterolateral. In hamsters, the posterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis contributes to male sexual behavior, particularly chemoinvestigation. Moreover, the posterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis is part of a neural circuit essential for mating, including the medial amygdaloid nucleus and medial preoptic area. The connections of bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, posteromedial part, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, posterointermediate part and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, posterolateral part were visualized by co-injection of anterograde (Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin) and retrograde (cholera toxin B) tract tracers. The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, posterointermediate part and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, posteromedial part have dense bidirectional connections with medial amygdaloid nucleus and cortical amygdala via the stria terminalis and ventral amygdalofugal pathway. These subnuclei also maintain bidirectional connections with steroid-concentrating areas including lateral septum, medial preoptic area, hypothalamus, and periaqueductal gray. The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, posterointermediate part and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, posteromedial part receive projections from the subiculum and send projections to deep mesencephalic nuclei. By contrast, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, posterolateral part is connected with the central amygdala, lateral hypothalamus, subthalamic nucleus, nucleus accumbens, substantia innominata, substantia nigra and thalamus. Thus, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, posterointermediate part and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, posteromedial part have similar connections with areas involved in social behaviors. The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, posterolateral part maintains connections with areas involved in motivational circuits. This supports the concept of distinct circuits within the extended amygdala which differentially link the centromedial amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an animal model for multiple sclerosis (MS). EAE and MS are characterized by CNS inflammation, demyelination and neurodegeneration. The inflammatory response occurring within the CNS leads to glial activation, dysfunction and death, as well as axonal damage and neurological deficit. Although the pathogenic mechanisms involved in EAE/MS are not well understood, accumulating data suggest that oxidative stress plays a major role in lesion development, and contributes to axonal dysfunction and degeneration. Metallothionein-I and -II are anti-inflammatory, neuroprotective, antioxidant proteins expressed during EAE and MS, in which they might play a protective role. The present study aimed to describe the expression profile of a group of inflammatory, neurodegenerative and tissue repair markers as well as metallothioneins during proteolipid protein-induced EAE, and to establish the time-relationships these molecules had during EAE. Interestingly, we found two marker expression profiles. In the first, marker expression increased as clinical signs worsened and reverted to baseline expression during recovery; in the second, marker expression increased at a later point during relapse, peaked at highest clinical score, and remained elevated throughout recovery. Of note, metallothionein expression was found to be related to the second profile, which would suggest that metallothionein proteins are implicated in the clinical recovery of EAE and perhaps these antioxidant proteins may provide therapeutic benefits in MS.
Global brain ischemia and reperfusion cause phosphorylation of the alpha subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor 2alpha, a reversible event associated with neuronal translation inhibition. However, the selective vulnerability of cornu Ammonis (CA) 1 pyramidal neurons correlates with irreversible translation inhibition. Phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 2alpha also leads to the formation of stress granules, cytoplasmic foci containing, in part, components of the 48S pre-initiation complex and the RNA binding protein T cell internal antigen-1 (TIA-1). Stress granules are sites of translationally inactive protein synthesis machinery. Here we evaluated stress granules in rat hippocampal formation neurons after 10 min global brain ischemia and 10 min, 90 min or 4 h of reperfusion by double-labeling immunofluorescence for two stress granule components: small ribosomal subunit protein 6 and TIA-1. Stress granules in CA3, hilus and dentate gyrus, but not CA1, increased at 10 min reperfusion and returned to control levels by 90 min reperfusion. Dynamic changes in the nuclear distribution of TIA-1 occurred in resistant neurons. At 4 h reperfusion, small ribosomal subunit protein 6 was solely localized within stress granules only in CA1 pyramidal neurons. Both TIA-1 and small ribosomal subunit protein 6 levels decreased approximately 50% in hippocampus homogenates. Electron microscopy showed stress granules to be composed of electron dense bodies 100-200 nm in diameter, that were not membrane bound, but were associated with endoplasmic reticulum. Alterations in stress granule behavior in CA1 pyramidal neurons provide a definitive mechanism for the continued inhibition of protein synthesis in reperfused CA1 pyramidal neurons following dephosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 2alpha.
Prenatal ethanol exposure has various deleterious effects on neuronal development. As GABA(B) receptor is known to play an important role during the development of the CNS, we now focused on its mRNA expression pattern in the rat brain during the late gestational days (GD) from 15.5 to GD 21.5. Ethanol's effect was also observed from GD 11.5 to GD 21.5. GABA(B1) receptor mRNA showed a high expression level in GD 15.5 and 19.5, while GABA(B2) receptor mRNA did in GD 15.5 and 21.5. The mRNAs levels depended on age and area during development. Ethanol exposure decreased GABA(B1) receptor from GD 11.5 to GD 19.5 with slight increases in GD 21.5. The decreasing effects were area dependent, with the highest effects in the forebrain including cortex, whereas slight effects were observed in the midbrain and hindbrain. The present results suggest an important role of GABA(B) receptor in the effects of ethanol on prenatal brain developmental processes.
We have previously demonstrated that progesterone significantly increases the rate of myelination in organotypic slice cultures of 7-day-old rat and mouse cerebellum. Here, we show that progesterone (20microM) stimulates the proliferation of oligodendrocyte precursors in cultured cerebellar slices of 7-day-old rats. The steroid increased the number of pre-oligodendrocytes (NG2(+), O4(+)) and to some extent of oligodendrocyte precursors, corresponding to an earlier developmental stage (nestin(+), PDGFalphaR(+), NG2(+), O4(-)). Progesterone stimulated the proliferation of both NG2(+) and O4(+) cells as shown by increased double-immunolabeling with the cell proliferation marker Ki67. The mitogenic effect of progesterone was inhibited by the progesterone receptor antagonist mifepristone (10microM) and could not be mimicked by its GABA-active metabolite 3alpha,5alpha-tetrahydroprogesterone (allopregnanolone), even at the high concentration of 50microM. Results indicate that progesterone first strongly and transiently stimulates the proliferation of oligodendrocyte precursors, and that it may thereafter accelerate their maturation into myelinating oligodendrocytes. Although oligodendrocyte precursors may be a direct target for the actions of progesterone, their number may also be indirectly influenced by the effects of the steroid on neurons and microglial cells, since treatment of the cerebellar slices with progesterone enhanced staining of the neuronal cytoskeleton marker microtubule-associated protein-2 and increased the number of OX-42(+) microglia. A small percentage (about 0.1%) of the NG2(+) cells transiently became OX-42(+) in response to progesterone. These results point to novel mechanisms by which progesterone may promote myelination in the CNS, specifically by stimulating the proliferation and maturation of oligodendrocyte precursors into myelinating oligodendrocytes.
Ejaculation requires the coordination of sympathetic, parasympathetic and somatic neural outputs. Timely occurrence of the emission and expulsion of sperm results from an interplay between spinal nuclei innervating the seminal tract and the sexual accessory glands including the prostate on the one hand, and on the other hand perineal striated muscles, particularly the bulbospongiosus muscle. A group of cells essential for ejaculation, located around the central canal and referred to as lumbar spinothalamic neurons have been recently identified. Lumbar spinothalamic neurons are immunoreactive for galanin and neurokinin-1 receptor. In order to investigate the anatomical relationships between lumbar spinothalamic neurons and both the prostate and the bulbospongiosus muscle, pseudorabies virus retrograde tracing technique was used combined with immunohistochemistry. Three to five days after pseudorabies virus injection in the bulbospongiosus muscle or the prostate in male rats, spinal cord sections were processed for double immunofluorescence against pseudorabies virus and galanin or neurokinin-1 receptor. Immunocytochemical experiments against pseudorabies virus and choline acetyltransferase were also performed to discriminate between motoneurons and preganglionic neurons, or interneurons. Spinal sections were examined with confocal laser scanning microscope. Three days after pseudorabies virus injection within the prostate and the bulbospongiosus muscle, sympathetic preganglionic neurons and motoneurons of the dorsomedial nucleus were retrogradely labeled, respectively. Five days after pseudorabies virus injection, transsynaptically labeled choline acetyltransferase-negative neurons were found mainly located in the medial gray surrounding the central canal from L1 to S1. At the L3-L4 level, most of transsynaptically labeled neurons were immunoreactive for galanin and to a lesser extent for neurokinin-1 receptor, strongly suggesting that they could be the lumbar spinothalamic cells. We have thus evidenced connections between these cells and motoneurons of the dorsomedial nucleus and both sympathetic and parasympathetic preganglionic neurons innervating the bulbospongiosus muscle and the prostate, respectively. These anatomical data reinforce the crucial role for lumbar spinothalamic cells in coordinating the spinal control of ejaculation.
Substituted amphetamines such as p-chloroamphetamine and the abused drug methylenedioxymethamphetamine cause selective destruction of serotonin axons in rats, by unknown mechanisms. Since some serotonin neurones also express neuronal nitric oxide synthase, which has been implicated in neurotoxicity, the present study was undertaken to determine whether nitric oxide synthase expressing serotonin neurones are selectively vulnerable to methylenedioxymethamphetamine or p-chloroamphetamine. Using double-labeling immunocytochemistry and double in situ hybridization for nitric oxide synthase and the serotonin transporter, it was confirmed that about two thirds of serotonergic cell bodies in the dorsal raph nucleus expressed nitric oxide synthase, however few if any serotonin transporter immunoreactive axons in striatum expressed nitric oxide synthase at detectable levels. Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (30 mg/kg) or p-chloroamphetamine (2 x 10 mg/kg) was administered to Sprague-Dawley rats, and 7 days after drug administration there were modest decreases in the levels of serotonin transporter protein in frontal cortex, and striatum using Western blotting, even though axonal loss could be clearly seen by immunostaining. p-Chloroamphetamine or methylenedioxymethamphetamine administration did not alter the level of nitric oxide synthase in striatum or frontal cortex, determined by Western blotting. Analysis of serotonin neuronal cell bodies 7 days after p-chloroamphetamine treatment, revealed a net down-regulation of serotonin transporter mRNA levels, and a profound change in expression of nitric oxide synthase, with 33% of serotonin transporter mRNA positive cells containing nitric oxide synthase mRNA, compared with 65% in control animals. Altogether these results support the hypothesis that serotonin neurones which express nitric oxide synthase are most vulnerable to substituted amphetamine toxicity, supporting the concept that the selective vulnerability of serotonin neurones has a molecular basis.
Numerous behavioral and environmental factors modulate the production of new cells in the adult mammalian brain. Although sleep loss has previously been shown to dramatically suppress brain cell proliferation, the effect of recovery sleep after a period of sleep deprivation is not known. Using the disk-over-water paradigm, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were sleep deprived for 48 h. Separate groups were then allowed either an 8 h period of recovery sleep or an additional 8 h of sleep deprivation. A third group of rats served as a control, and were not sleep deprived. At 54 h, all rats received an injection of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (200 mg/kg, i.p.) and were killed 2 h later. When compared with control rats, a 36% reduction in cell proliferation was observed in the dentate gyrus of rats subjected to 56 h of sleep deprivation. A similar reduction in proliferation (39%) was observed in rats allowed an 8 h period of recovery sleep. In both deprivation groups, the magnitude of suppression of cell proliferation was approximately twice as large in the posterior hippocampus as it was in the anterior hippocampus. These data confirm previous results that an extended period of sleep deprivation exerts a strong suppressant effect on cell proliferation in the rat dentate gyrus, and demonstrate that this suppression of cell proliferation shows no evidence of recovery for at least 8 h following a 48 h period of sleep deprivation.
Metabolic indices of neuronal activity are thought to predict changes in the frequency of action potentials. There are stimuli that do not shift action potential frequency but change the temporal organization of neuronal firing following modifications of excitatory inputs by inhibitory synaptic activation. To our knowledge it is unknown whether this kind of stimulus associates with adjustments of metabolic markers of neuronal activity. Here, we used the hypothalamic-neurohypophysial system of lactating rats to address whether shifts in the temporal organization of neuronal firing relate with modifications of metabolic markers of neuronal activity. Cytochrome oxidase activity, (3)H-2-deoxyglucose uptake, and the area occupied by blood vessels increased in the paraventricular nucleus and neurohypophysis of lactating rats, as compared with their virgin counterparts. Taken together, these results suggest that metabolic demands denote shifts in the temporal organization of action potentials related with the adjustment of excitatory synaptic activation, and support that changes in metabolic markers do not necessarily reflect shifts in the frequency of action potentials.
The ophthalmic, maxillary and mandibular axon branches of the trigeminal ganglion provide cutaneous sensory innervation to the vertebrate face. In the chick embryo, the trigeminal ganglion is bilobed, with ophthalmic axons projecting from the ophthalmic lobe, while maxillary and mandibular projections emerge from the maxillomandibular lobe. To date, target tissue specific guidance cues that discriminately guide the axon projections from the two trigeminal ganglion lobes are unknown. EphA receptor tyrosine kinases and ephrin-A ligands are excellent candidates for this process as they are known to mediate axon guidance in the developing nervous system. Accordingly, the expression of EphAs and ephrin-As was investigated at stages 13, 15, 20 of chick embryogenesis when peripheral axons from the trigeminal ganglion are pathfinding. EphA3 is expressed highly in the ophthalmic trigeminal ganglion lobe neurons in comparison to maxillomandibular trigeminal ganglion lobe neurons. Furthermore, from stages 13-20 ephrin-A2 and ephrin-A5 ligands are only localized to the mesenchyme of the first branchial arch (maxillary and mandibular processes), the target fields for maxillomandibular trigeminal ganglion axons. We found that ophthalmic and not maxillomandibular lobe axons were responsive to ephrin-A5-Fc utilizing a substratum choice assay. The implication of these results is that EphA3 forward signaling in ophthalmic sensory axons may be an important mechanism in vivo for lobe specific guidance of trigeminal ganglion ophthalmic projections.
In contrast to many neuronal systems, the pattern of developmental neuronal degeneration in the rat geniculate ganglion has remained undefined. To address this issue sectioned geniculate ganglia from embryonic day 13 to postnatal day 3 have been examined using standard histological techniques, TdT-mediated dUTP-digoxigenin nick end labeling to verify apoptotic activity, bromo-deoxyuridine incorporation to monitor neuronal precursor proliferation, and anti-beta-neurotubulin III to verify the neuronal identity of pycnotic cells. Results summed from alternate (embryonic day 13) or every third (embryonic day 14-postnatal day 3) section show that neuronal degeneration occurs as early as embryonic day 13 (6.8% of neurons counted), well before geniculate innervation of lingual taste buds at embryonic day 16. A degenerative peak occurs at embryonic day 17 (9.5%) followed by a decline (1.7% at embryonic day 18) and leveling off (0.1%-0.2% at embryonic day 22-postnatal day 3). Thus, geniculate neuronal degenerative pattern includes both innervation-associated histogenetic and morphogenetic cell death. Corresponding counts of mean neuronal numbers in the sections showed a continual rise from embryonic day 13 through embryonic day 18 (approx. 330-760) followed by a slight decline at embryonic day 19 (to approx. 630) and then a final leveling off at 800-825 by embryonic day 20. This pattern differs from many other developing neural systems which show a major population crash during initial target contact. It likely reflects different but slightly overlapping neuronal precursor proliferation and degeneration patterns in multiple geniculate neuronal subpopulations.
Fast (approximately 160 Hz) cerebellar oscillation has been recently described in different models of ataxic mice, such as mice lacking calcium-binding proteins and in a mouse model of Angelman syndrome. Among them, calretinin-calbindin double knockout mice constitute the best model for evaluating fast oscillations in vivo. The cerebellum of these mice may present long-lasting episodes of very strong and stable local field potential oscillation alternating with the normal non-oscillating state. Spontaneous firing of the Purkinje cells in wild type and double knockout mice largely differs. Indeed, the Purkinje cell firing of the oscillating mutant is characterized by an increased rate and rhythmicity and by the emergence of synchronicity along the parallel fiber axis. To better understand the driving role played by these different parameters on fast cerebellar oscillation, we simultaneously recorded Purkinje cells and local field potential during the induction of general anesthesia by ketamine or pentobarbitone. Both drugs significantly increased Purkinje cell rhythmicity in the absence of oscillation, but they did not lead to Purkinje cell synchronization or to the emergence of fast oscillation. During fast oscillation episodes, ketamine abolished Purkinje cell synchronicity and inhibited fast oscillation. In contrast, pentobarbitone facilitated fast oscillation, induced and increased Purkinje cell synchronicity. We propose that fast cerebellar oscillation is due to the synchronous rhythmic firing of Purkinje cell populations and is facilitated by positive feedback whereby the oscillating field further phase-locks recruited Purkinje cells onto the same rhythmic firing pattern.
Short-term activity-dependent synaptic plasticity has a fundamental role in short-term memory and information processing in the nervous system. Although the neuronal circuitry controlling different behaviors of land snails of the genus Helix has been characterized in some detail, little is known about the activity-dependent plasticity of synapses between identified neurons regulating specific behavioral acts. In order to study homosynaptic activity-dependent plasticity of behaviorally relevant Helix synapses independently of heterosynaptic influences, we sought to reconstruct them in cell culture. To this aim, we first investigated in culture the factors regulating synapse formation between Helix neurons, and then we studied the short-term plasticity of in vitro-reconstructed monosynaptic connections involved in the neural control of salivary secretion and whole-body withdrawal. We found that independently of extrinsic factors, cell-cell interactions are seemingly sufficient to trigger the formation of electrical and chemical synapses, although mostly inappropriate--in their type or association--with respect to the in vivo synaptic connectivity. The presence of ganglia-derived factors in the culture medium was required for the in vitro reestablishment of the appropriate in vivo-like connectivity, by reducing the occurrence of electrical connections and promoting the formation of chemical excitatory synapses, while apparently not influencing the formation of inhibitory connections. These heat-labile factors modulated electrical and chemical synaptogenesis through distinct protein tyrosine kinase signal transduction pathways. Taking advantage of in vitro-reconstructed synapses, we have found that feeding interneuron-efferent neuron synapses and mechanosensory neuron-withdrawal interneuron synapses display multiple forms of short-term enhancement-like facilitation, augmentation and posttetanic potentiation as well as homosynaptic depression. These forms of plasticity are thought to be relevant in the regulation of Helix feeding and withdrawal behaviors by inducing dramatic activity-dependent changes in the strength of input and output synapses of high-order interneurons with a crucial role in the control of Helix behavioral hierarchy.
Morphological changes in astrocytes occur in a number of brain regions including the hypothalamus and hippocampal regions as a function of hormonal and reproductive state. Because basic fibroblast growth factor has been shown to play an important role in morphological changes in astrocytes, we investigated whether basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity would also be influenced by reproductive state and circulating gonadal steroids. To do this we compared astrocytic basic fibroblast growth factor and glial fibrillary acid protein immunoreactivity in hypothalamic nuclei and the cingulate cortex, area 2 among groups of cycling, late pregnant and lactating rats as well as in ovariectomized and ovariectomized hormone-replaced females. Significant differences in both basic fibroblast growth factor and glial fibrillary acid protein immunoreactivity were observed across groups in the supraoptic nucleus, parvocellular paraventricular nucleus, medial preoptic area of the hypothalamus and cingulate cortex 2. The pattern of change in basic fibroblast growth factor and glial fibrillary acid protein immunoreactivity varied across regions both in direction and magnitude. For example, although in the supraoptic nucleus ovariectomized rats had lower levels of basic fibroblast growth factor-ir than cycling females, this pattern was reversed within cingulate cortex. Overall the results of this study suggest that reproductive and hormonal states are associated with robust changes in basic fibroblast growth factor and glial fibrillary acid protein immunoreactivity in a number of brain areas but that the changes observed vary in magnitude as well as direction from one brain region to another.
Recent research has shown that neurons in the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus are crucial for sleep by inhibiting wake-promoting systems, but the process that triggers their activation at sleep onset remains to be established. Since evidence indicates that sleep induced by adenosine, an endogenous sleep-promoting substance, requires activation of brain A(2A) receptors, we examined the hypothesis that adenosine could activate ventrolateral preoptic nucleus sleep neurons via A(2A) adenosine receptors in rat brain slices. Following on from our initial in vitro identification of these neurons as uniformly inhibited by noradrenaline and acetylcholine arousal transmitters, we established that the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus comprises two intermingled subtypes of sleep neurons, differing in their firing responses to serotonin, inducing either an inhibition (Type-1 cells) or an excitation (Type-2 cells). Since both cell types contained galanin and expressed glutamic acid decarboxylase-65/67 mRNAs, they potentially correspond to the sleep promoting neurons inhibiting arousal systems. Our pharmacological investigations using A(1) and A(2A) adenosine receptors agonists and antagonists further revealed that only Type-2 neurons were excited by adenosine via a postsynaptic activation of A(2A) adenosine receptors. Hence, the present study is the first demonstration of a direct activation of the sleep neurons by adenosine. Our results further support the cellular and functional heterogeneity of the sleep neurons, which could enable their differential contribution to the regulation of sleep. Adenosine and serotonin progressively accumulate during arousal. We propose that Type-2 neurons, which respond to these homeostatic signals by increasing their firing are involved in sleep induction. In contrast, Type-1 neurons would likely play a role in the consolidation of sleep.
Transient cerebral ischemia leads to irreversible translational inhibition which has been considered as a hallmark of delayed neuronal death after ischemia. This study utilized a rat transient cerebral ischemia model to investigate whether irreversible translational inhibition is due to abnormal aggregation of translational complex, i.e. the ribosomes and their associated nascent polypeptides, initiation factors, translational chaperones and degradation enzymes after ischemia. Translational complex aggregation was studied by electron microscopy, as well as by biochemical analyses. A duration of 15 or 20 min of cerebral ischemia induced severe translational complex aggregation starting from 30 min of reperfusion and lasting until the onset of delayed neuronal death at 48 h of reperfusion. Under electron microscopy, most rosette-shaped polyribosomes were relatively evenly distributed in the cytoplasm of sham-operated control neurons. After ischemia, most ribosomes were clumped into large abnormal aggregates in neurons destined to die. Translational complex components consisting of small ribosomal subunit protein 6, large subunit protein 28, eukaryotic initiation factor-3eta, co-translational chaperone heat shock cognate protein 70 and co-chaperone HSP40-Hdj1, as well as co-translational ubiquitin ligase c-terminus of hsp70-interacting protein were all irreversibly clumped into large abnormal protein aggregates after ischemia. Translational components were also highly ubiquitinated. To our knowledge, irreversible aggregation of translational components has not been reported after brain ischemia. This study clearly indicates that ischemia damages co-translational chaperone and degradation machinery, resulting in irreversible destruction of protein synthesis machinery by protein aggregation after ischemia.
The metabotropic glutamate receptor 4 is highly expressed presynaptically on thalamocortical neurons that are involved in the pathogenesis of generalized absence seizures. Mutant mice devoid of metabotropic glutamate receptor 4 are completely resistant to absence seizures induced by low doses of GABA type A receptor antagonists. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that there is altered glutamate and GABA release within thalamocortical circuitry in mice devoid of metabotropic glutamate receptor 4. Extracellular GABA and glutamate release were determined in ventrobasal thalamus, the nucleus reticularis thalami and laminae I-III, and IV-VI of cerebral cortex (laminae I-III of cerebral cortex, and laminae IV-VI of cerebral cortex) using in vivo microdialysis techniques on awake, free moving mice. A significant increase of both basal and K(+)-evoked glutamate release was detected in the ventrobasal thalamus, the nucleus reticularis thalami and laminae IV-VI of cerebral cortex of mice devoid of metabotropic glutamate receptor 4 mice. There also was a significant increase in both basal and K(+)-evoked GABA release in the mice devoid of metabotropic glutamate receptor 4, but a significant decrease of GABA release in laminae IV-VI of cerebral cortex. However, there was no alteration of either GABA or glutamate release in laminae I-III of cerebral cortex, cortical laminae that are not involved in absence seizures. These data indicate that deletion of the metabotropic glutamate receptor 4 gene results in a selective perturbation of glutamate and GABA release within the thalamocortical circuitry involved in the pathogenesis of absence seizures.
The role of corticotropin-releasing factor in autonomic regulation of heart rate, heart rate variability and behavior responses was investigated in two genetic mouse models: corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1-deficient mice, and corticotropin-releasing factor-transgenic mice overexpressing corticotropin-releasing factor. Heart rate was recorded by radio-telemetry during novelty exposure and auditory fear conditioning. Locomotor activity and freezing served as behavioral indices. Locomotor activity and heart rate were invariably increased in response to novelty exposure in both corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1-deficient mice and littermate wild-type controls. The heart rate responses during retention of conditioned auditory fear and the exponential relationship between heart rate and heart rate variability were unaffected by genotype. Moreover, conditioned fear responses inferred from multiple behavioral measures including freezing did not differ between corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1-deficient and corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1 wild-type control mice. Corticotropin-releasing factor-transgenic mice exhibited markedly reduced locomotor activity during novelty exposure when compared with littermate wild-type controls. Baseline and novelty-driven heart rate was slightly elevated in corticotropin-releasing factor-transgenic mice, whereas the novelty-induced increase of heart rate was not different between genotypes. In contrast, corticotropin-releasing factor-transgenic mice did not display a heart rate response indicative of conditioned auditory fear. It is concluded that corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1-deficiency does not affect heart rate adjustment and behavioral responses to acute fearful stimuli. The resiliency of behavioral and cardiovascular patterns elevation argues against the involvement of corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1 in acute emotional regulation on these two functional levels despite an absent corticosterone elevation in corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1-deficient mice. It is hypothesized that the lack of a conditioned heart rate response in corticotropin-releasing factor-transgenic mice is attributable to an impairment of cognitive function. The results are compared with those of corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 2-deficient mice, and the role of the corticotropin-releasing factor system in cardiovascular regulation is discussed.
Transgenic mice ectopically expressing nerve growth factor in oligodendrocytes have high levels of nerve growth factor immunoreactivity in the white matter of the spinal cord from birth until 2 months of age. The nerve growth factor over-expression leads to the appearance of ectopic substance P containing sensory fibers in the white matter of the spinal cord that persist throughout the life of the animal. These transgenic mice have been found to display hypersensitivity to a thermal stimulus following a sensitizing pinch stimulus known to release endogenous substance P. Surprisingly, this hypersensitivity is completely reversed following the administration of morphine, to the extent that transgenic mice become less sensitive to pain than the wild type mice given morphine. Endomorphin-2, an endogenous opioid peptide, has been found co-localized with substance P in primary sensory fibers in the spinal cord. In this study, we show that the ectopic fibers also express endomorphin-2, and describe the postnatal development of such expression, as detected by immunocytochemistry. We confirmed that endomorphin-2 expression starts later in the postnatal period than substance P. Surprisingly, transgenic animals had delayed appearance of endomorphin-2 in the superficial dorsal horn, compared with wild type, and expressed particularly high levels of endomorphin-2 immunoreactivity in the ectopic fibers from postnatal days 10-30, coinciding with the peak of nerve growth factor expression in oligodendrocytes. Endomorphin-2 immunoreactivity was still readily detected in ectopic fibers of 120-day-old animals. Furthermore, we detected immunoreactivity for the mu-opioid receptor in the ectopic fibers, where it was co-localized with endomorphin-2 immunoreactivity. In the superficial dorsal horn, there were no apparent differences in the distribution and intensity of mu-opioid receptor immunoreactivity between wild type and transgenic animals. Taken together, these data could provide an explanation for the enhanced effect of opioid analgesics in transgenic mice, when compared with control mice, as well as provide the basis for studies of the postnatal development of the hyperalgesia and allodynia demonstrated by these animals.
The mammalian RFamide-related peptide RFRP1 was found to signal through the neuropeptide FF 2 receptor expressed in Xenopus oocytes. The peptide induced a dose-dependent outward current, which was dependent on the simultaneous expression of GIRK1 and GIRK4 potassium channels. In neuropathic rats, RFRP1 administered intrathecally induced tactile antiallodynia and thermal antinociception, whereas in the solitary tract nucleus it produced only mechanical antihyperalgesia. Expression of the RFamide-related peptide mRNA in the rat CNS was distinctly different from that of neuropeptide FF. Most notably, the gene was not expressed in the hindbrain or spinal cord at detectable levels. However, there was a prominent group of RFamide-related peptide mRNA-expressing neurons in the central hypothalamus, in the area in and between the dorsomedial and ventromedial nuclei. The results suggest that RFamide-related peptides are potentially involved in pain regulation through a hypothalamo-medullary projection system, and possibly via action on neuropeptide FF 2 receptors. In neuropathic animals, the pain suppressive effect of RFamide-related peptide varies depending on the submodality of noxious test stimulation and the site of RFamide-related peptide administration.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has been thought of as a mitogen that promotes proliferation of endothelial cells and as a neurotrophic factor that stimulates neurogenesis and axonal growth in both peripheral and central nervous systems. To investigate the potential involvement of VEGF in the lesion-induced reorganization in the brain, the expression changes of VEGF and its receptor Flk-1 were analyzed in the mouse hippocampus after transections of the entorhinal afferents. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry showed the time-dependent expression upregulation of VEGF mRNA and protein in the entorhinally denervated hippocampal stratum lacunosum-moleculare and dentate outer molecular layer, which initiated by 3 days postlesion, reached its maximum at 7-15 days postlesion, still persisted by 30 days postlesion for protein, and recovered to the normal levels at 30 days postlesion for mRNA and at 60 days postlesion for protein. Double labeling of VEGF and glial fibrillary acidic protein revealed that VEGF-expressing cells in the denervated areas were reactive astrocytes. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that VEGF receptor Flk-1 mRNA was also time-dependently upregulated in the deafferented hippocampus with its maximal elevation at 7-15 days postlesion while the Flt-1 mRNA levels remained unchanged at any time point we examined. Immunohistochemistry analysis also displayed the upregulation of Flk-1 protein in the denervated stratum lacunosum-moleculare and outer molecular layer with a time course similar to that of VEGF mRNA upregulation. Flk-1 receptors were found to be expressed not only by reactive astrocytes but also by neurites, which most likely belong to sprouting axons by 7 days postlesion and regrowing dendrites by 15-30 days postlesion. From these data we suggest that the spatiotemporal upregulation of VEGF and Flk-1 in the hippocampus is induced by entorhinal deafferentation and that VEGF may be involved in the structural reorganization in the deafferented hippocampus via directly or indirectly promoting neurite growth.
Ectopic excitation of nociceptive axons by chemical mediators may contribute to symptoms in neuropathic pain. In this study, we have measured the excitability of unmyelinated rat C-fiber axons in isolated segments of sural nerves under different experimental conditions. (1) We demonstrate in normal rats that several mediators including ATP, serotonin (5-HT), 1-(3-chlorophenyl)biguanide (5-HT3 receptor agonist), norepinephrine, acetylcholine and capsaicin alter electrophysiological parameters of C-fibers which indicate an increase of axonal excitability. Other mediators such as histamine, glutamate, prostaglandin E(2) and the cytokines tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6 did not produce such effects. (2) The effects of several mediators were tested after peripheral nerve injury (partial ligation or spared nerve injury). Sural nerves from such animals did not show significant changes when compared with controls. (3) We tested whether the effects of chemical mediators on axonal excitability are due to actions on the sensory C-fiber afferents or the postganglionic sympathetic efferents. In order to distinguish these effects, we performed surgical sympathectomy of the lumbar sympathetic chain, including the L3, L4 and L5 ganglia. Sympathectomy did not markedly influence the effects of mediators on axonal excitability (except that the norepinephrine effect was significantly diminished). In conclusion, our data suggest a constitutive rather than inducible expression of axonal receptors for some chemical mediators on the axonal membrane of unmyelinated fibers. Most of the changes in axonal excitability take place in sensory C-fiber afferents rather than in postganglionic sympathetic efferents. Thus, it is possible that certain immune and glial cell mediators released in or around the nerve following injury or inflammation influence the excitability of intact nociceptive fibers. This mechanism could contribute to ectopic excitation of axons in neuropathic pain.
The topographical location of neurons containing urocortin 1, a peptide related to corticotropin-releasing factor was investigated in human postmortem brain by immunohistochemistry, and compared with the location of neurons containing choline acetyltransferase, a marker for cholinergic cells. A three-dimensional computer reconstruction of the urocortin 1 and choline acetyltransferase-positive population of neurons within the oculomotor area was made. It was shown that the urocortin 1-positive neurons are located within the area identified as the Edinger-Westphal nucleus according to the human brain stem atlas, and that the neurons identified as Edinger-Westphal nucleus in the atlas are not choline acetyltransferase-positive. This finding agrees with recent animal studies showing that urocortin 1-positive neurons are not identical with the parasympathetic cholinergic neurons projecting to the ciliary ganglion. They indicate that the neurons identified as Edinger-Westphal nucleus in the human brain stem atlas belong to the non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus, whereas the location of preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus remains unidentified.
Sharp wave and associated fast oscillatory ripples (140-200 Hz) in the cornu ammonis 1 region are the most synchronous hippocampal patterns in the adult rat. Spike sequences associated with sharp waves are believed to play a critical role in transferring transient memories from the hippocampus to the neocortex and the emergence of superfast ripples is pathognostic in temporal lobe epilepsy. Sharp waves in cornu ammonis 1 stratum radiatum are induced by a strong depolarization by the cornu ammonis 3 Schaffer collaterals, due to the synchronous discharge of cornu ammonis 3 pyramidal cells. Although during the first postnatal week, sharp-wave events are associated with hippocampal unit bursts in the pyramidal layer, ripple oscillations are absent. We investigated the emergence of fast-field oscillations in rat pups ranging from postnatal day 12-20 by recording with wire tetrodes in freely behaving pups and with 16-site linear silicon probes in head fixed animals. Cornu ammonis 1 pyramidal cell layer was determined by the presence of multiple unit activity and a reversal of the field potential in the deeper electrode sites. On-line verification of the recording sites was determined via an evoked response to commissural stimulation, showing a clear reversal in the field potential. Sharp wave-associated fast-field oscillations did not begin to emerge until the end of the second postnatal week and showed a gradual increase until day 18. Once ripples emerged, the intra-ripple frequency assumed adult values. The developmental time course of the ripple parallels the switch in the GABA(A) receptor-mediated signaling from excitation to inhibition. The time course may also reflect hitherto unidentified emergence of neuronal gap junctions.
Fasting attenuates disease-associated anorexia, but the mechanisms underlying this effect are not well understood. In the present study, we investigated the extent to which a 48 h fast alters hypothalamic neuronal activity in response to the anorectic effects of lipopolysaccharide in rats. Male rats were fed ad libitum or fasted, and were injected with i.p. saline or lipopolysaccharide (250 microg/kg). Immunohistochemistry for Fos protein was used to visualize neuronal activity in response to lipopolysaccharide within selected hypothalamic feeding regulatory nuclei. Additionally, food intake, body weight, plasma interleukin-1 and leptin levels, and the expression of mRNA for appetite-related neuropeptides (neuropeptide Y, proopiomelanocortin and cocaine-amphetamine-regulated transcript) were measured in a time-related manner. Our data show that the pattern of lipopolysaccharide-induced Fos expression was similar in most hypothalamic nuclei whatever the feeding status. However, we observed that fasting significantly reduced lipopolysaccharide-induced Fos expression in the paraventricular nucleus, in association with an attenuated lipopolysaccharide-induced anorexia and body weight loss. Moreover, lipopolysaccharide reduced fasting-induced Fos expression in the perifornical area of the lateral hypothalamus. Lipopolysaccharide-induced circulating levels of interleukin-1 were similar across feeding status. Finally, fasting, but not lipopolysaccharide, affected circulating level of leptin and appetite-related neuropeptides expression in the arcuate nucleus. Together, our data show that fasting modulates lipopolysaccharide-induced anorexia and body weight loss in association with neural changes in specific hypothalamic nuclei.
Interleukin-1beta is released at the periphery during infection and acts on the nervous system to induce fever, neuroendocrine activation, and behavioral changes. These effects are mediated by brain type I IL-1 receptors. In vitro studies have shown the ability of interleukin-1beta to activate mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathways including p38, c-Jun N-terminal kinase and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2). In contrast to other mitogen-activated protein kinases, little is known about ERK1/2 activation in the rat brain in response to interleukin-1beta. The aim of the present study was therefore to investigate spatial and temporal activation of ERK1/2 in the rat brain after peripheral administration of interleukin-1beta using immunohistochemistry to detect the phosphorylated form of the kinase. In non-stimulated conditions, phosphorylated ERK1/2 immunoreactivity was observed in neurons throughout the brain. Administration of interleukin-1beta (60 microg/kg, i.p.) induced the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 in areas at the interface between brain and blood or cerebrospinal fluid: meninges, circumventricular organs, endothelial like cells of the blood vessels, and in brain nuclei involved in behavioral depression, fever and neuroendocrine activation: paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, supraoptic nucleus, central amygdala and arcuate nucleus. Double labeling of phosphorylated ERK1/2 and cell markers revealed the expression of phosphorylated ERK1/2 in neurons, astrocytes and microglia. Since phosphorylated ERK1/2 was found in structures in which type I IL-1 receptor has already been identified as well as in structures lacking this receptor, activation of ERK1/2 is likely to occur in response to both direct and indirect action of interleukin-1beta on its target cells.
Hepatic encephalopathy is characterized by disturbances of motor and cognitive functions involving the basal ganglia. So far no standards for assessment of neuropsychiatric abnormalities (disorders of sleep, mood, anxiety and personality) in subclinical hepatic encephalopathy have been defined. Using an animal model of mild (subclinical) hepatic encephalopathy we investigated now striatum-related behaviors and cortico-striatal synaptic plasticity in rats 2 months after introduction of a portacaval shunt and sham-operated matched controls. In a novel open field portacaval shunt rats displayed less locomotor activity; unlike controls they also showed no habituation to the field and no recall of the field environment after 24 h, indicative of cognitive deficit. The elevated-plus maze test indicated no differences in fear/anxiety in the portacaval shunt animals. Tetanic stimulation of cortical afferents in magnesium-free solution evoked an N-methyl-D-aspartate-dependent long-term potentiation in sham-operated animals. In portacaval shunt animals long-term potentiation was significantly impaired. Histamine, a potent modulator of cortico-striatal transmission, induced a larger long-term depression of field potentials in control compared with portacaval shunt rats. In conclusion, a combination of electrophysiological and behavioral approaches has revealed functional changes in cortico-striatal transmission. These data are relevant for understanding the mechanisms of motor and cognitive dysfunctions in hepatic encephalopathy patients and for the development of precise psychometric tests, evaluating cognitive deficits in subclinical hepatic encephalopathy.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) has been implicated in processes of neuroprotection, axonal regeneration and synaptogenesis in the lesioned CNS. In the olfactory system, which is characterized by particularly robust neuroplasticity throughout life, the concentration of CNTF is high even under physiological conditions. In the present study, the cellular localization of CNTF-immunoreactivity was studied in the rat and mouse olfactory epithelium. In both species, individual olfactory sensory neurons (ONs) displayed intense CNTF-immunoreactivity. The number of CNTF-ir ONs varied interindividually in rats and was lower in mice than in rats. In olfactory epithelia of mice expressing beta-galactosidase under control of the CNTF promoter, cells of the ON layer were immunoreactive for the reporter protein. CNTF-ir ONs were olfactory marker protein-positive and growth associated protein 43-negative. CNTF-ir ONs lacked apoptotic markers, and the number of specifically labeled ONs was apparently unchanged after light chemical lesioning of the epithelium, indicating that CNTF-immunoreactivity was not associated with ON death. Electron microscopy of CNTF-ir ON axons in innervated olfactory bulb glomeruli documented that they formed typical ON axonal synapses with target neurons. Three dimensional reconstructions of bulb pairs showed a striking similarity of the positions of glomeruli innervated by CNTF-ir ON axons in left and right bulbs of individual animals and interindividually. The number of innervated glomeruli differed interindividually in rats and was lower in mice than in rats. The results show that in rodents CNTF-immunoreactivity occurs in a subset of mature, functionally competent ONs. The localization of target glomeruli suggests that CNTF-immunoreactivity may be associated with the expression and/or activation of specific olfactory receptor proteins.
The time of food availability induces important behavioral and metabolic adaptations. Animals subjected to feeding restricted to a few daytime hours show increased locomotor activity and body temperature in anticipation of mealtime. In addition, animals under ad libitum feeding show a marked postprandial raise in body temperature and in thermogenesis. The areas of the brain commanding these responses to food are partially known. We investigated in the rat the role of the infralimbic area, located in the medial prefrontal cortex, and considered a visceral-autonomic motor area, in the responses to ad libitum or restricted feeding schedule. We performed infralimbic cortex excitotoxic lesions using injections of ibotenic acid, and measured body temperature and locomotor activity by telemetry in rats under ad libitum and restricted feeding conditions. We found that bilateral infralimbic area lesions prevented both the anticipatory and the postprandial increases in core temperature, decreased mean temperature by nearly 0.3 degrees C during both light/dark phases, and increased daily temperature variability. In contrast, the lesion caused a rapid induction of the anticipatory locomotor activity. These results show that behavioral and metabolic responses to the time of food availability are commanded separately and that the infralimbic area is a key structure to adjust the body temperature to an upcoming meal.
This study reveals that the chick embryo has active the machinery for the production and degradation of the amyloid beta peptide characteristic of Alzheimer's disease. We cloned the principal beta-amyloid precursor protein isoforms in the chick embryo and observed that they are highly homologous to the human sequences and identical at the C-terminal sequence, including the amyloid beta domain. Mammals such as rat or mouse, more commonly used as animal models of human diseases, have a distinct amyloid beta sequence. The distribution of beta-amyloid precursor protein isoforms in the chick embryo revealed that, as in humans, their expression is ubiquitous and the prototype beta-amyloid precursor protein-695 predominated in the nervous system. We also found that the chick embryo expresses the genes for the main proteolytic proteases implicated in the production of amyloid beta, including BACE-1, BACE-2, presenilin-1, presenilin-2 and nicastrin, as well as the amyloid beta-degrading enzyme neprilysin, or ADAM-17, a protease implicated in the non-amyloidogenic processing of beta-amyloid precursor protein. We have also found that between amyloid beta40 and amyloid beta42, this latter seems to be the major amyloid beta peptide produced during chick embryogenesis. The chick embryo appears as a suitable natural model to study cell biology and developmental function of beta-amyloid precursor protein and a potential assay system for drugs that regulate beta-amyloid precursor protein processing.
In humans, stress is recognized as a major factor contributing to relapse to drug abuse in abstinent individuals; drugs of abuse themselves or withdrawal from such drugs act as stressors. In the animals, evidence suggests that centrally released arginine vasopressin in both amygdala and hypothalamus plays an important role in stress-related anxiogenic behaviors. The stress responsive hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis is under tonic inhibition via endogenous opioids, and cocaine withdrawal stimulates hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity. The present studies were undertaken to determine whether: (1) 14-day (chronic) &quot;binge&quot; pattern cocaine administration (45 mg/kg/day) or its withdrawal for 3 h (acute), 1 day (subacute) or 10 days (chronic) alters arginine vasopressin mRNA levels in amygdala or hypothalamus; (2) the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (1mg/kg) alters arginine vasopressin mRNA or hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal hormonal responses in acute cocaine withdrawal; and (3) there are associated changes of mu opioid receptor or proopiomelanocortin mRNA levels. In amygdala, arginine vasopressin mRNA levels were unchanged after chronic &quot;binge&quot; cocaine, but were increased during acute cocaine withdrawal. Naloxone completely blocked this increase. Neither chronic cocaine nor its acute withdrawal altered amygdalar mu opioid receptor mRNA levels. The increase in amygdalar arginine vasopressin mRNA levels was still observed after subacute withdrawal, but not after chronic withdrawal. Although hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal tolerance developed with chronic &quot;binge&quot; cocaine, there were modestly elevated plasma adrenocorticotropin hormone levels during acute withdrawal. While naloxone produced modest adrenocorticotropin hormone elevations in cocaine-nave rats, naloxone failed to elicit an adrenocorticotropin hormone response in cocaine-withdrawn rats. In hypothalamus, neither chronic cocaine nor acute withdrawal altered arginine vasopressin, proopiomelanocortin or mu opioid receptor mRNA levels. These results show that: (1) opioid receptors mediate increased amygdalar arginine vasopressin gene expression during acute cocaine withdrawal, and (2) cocaine withdrawal renders the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis insensitive to naloxone. Our findings suggest a potential role for amygdalar arginine vasopressin in the aversive consequences of early cocaine withdrawal.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is known to regulate the presynaptic glutamate release and neuronal responses to excitatory neurotransmission. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of NPY on the release of endogenous glutamate from rat cerebrocortical nerve terminals (synaptosomes). NPY inhibited the Ca2+-dependent glutamate release evoked by 4-aminopyridine, and this inhibitory effect was mediated via NPY Y1 receptors, because it was mimicked by the specific NPY Y1 receptor agonist [Leu31 Pro34] NPY and blocked by the NPY Y1 receptor antagonist GR 231118. The inhibitory action of NPY was not due to it decreasing synaptosomal excitability or directly interfering with the release process at some point subsequent to Ca2+ influx, because NPY did not alter the 4-aminopyridine-evoked depolarization of the synaptosomal plasma membrane potential or ionomycin and hypertonic solution-induced glutamate release. Examination of the effect of NPY on the cytosolic [Ca2+] revealed that the inhibition of glutamate release could be attributed to a reduction in voltage-dependent Ca2+ influx. Consistent with this, the NPY-mediated inhibition of glutamate release was completely abolished in synaptosomes pretreated with N- and P/Q-type Ca2+ channel blocker, omega-conotoxin MVIIC. Moreover, NPY-mediated inhibition of 4-aminopyridine-evoked glutamate release was insensitive to KT 5720 and Ro32-0432 but was suppressed when protein kinase C was stimulated with phorbol ester. Together, these results suggest that NPY acting predominantly on NPY Y1 receptors inhibits glutamate release from rat cerebrocortical synaptosomes, likely by a mechanism involving direct coupling of receptors to N- and P/Q-type Ca2+ channels, and this coupling is subject to regulation by protein kinase C-dependent pathway. This implies that selective ligand for NPY receptors may be of value for treatment of conditions characterized by excessive glutamate release in the cerebral cortex.
In high concentrations or after prolonged exposure, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist quinolinic acid (QUIN) induces lipid peroxidation, oxidative stress, and cell death in the adult brain, and after i.c.v. injection induces seizures and increases blood-brain barrier permeability. As QUIN is substantially increased in plasma and brain of fetal sheep after endotoxin treatment or maternal tryptophan loading, we examined the effects of increasing plasma QUIN concentrations on the brain of late gestation fetal sheep. Continuous fetal infusion of QUIN (0.1 mmol/h i.v.; n=4) for 12 h increased plasma QUIN concentrations from 22.3+/-6.0-210.8+/-31.4 microM; the infusion of vehicle [normal saline] had no effect on QUIN concentrations (n=4). At 24 h after QUIN infusion glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity was significantly increased in cerebral gray matter and the granule cell layer of cerebellum, and the lipid peroxide product 4-hydroxynonenal-immunoreactivity and albumin-immunoreactivity were present throughout the cytoplasm of cerebellar Purkinje cells. Extravasation of albumin into the brain was not observed, indicating the cerebral microvasculature with respect to permeability to plasma proteins was normal at the time of analysis. We suggest that increased glial fibrillary acidic protein and 4-hydroxynonenal result from oxidative stress induced by QUIN, and that the increased intracellular albumin in cerebellar Purkinje cells may be an adaptive response.
Field potential, patch-clamp and optical recordings were performed in accessory olfactory bulb slices of postnatal rats following single electrical stimulation of the vomeronasal nerve layer. On the basis of differences in the components of the field potential, postnatal days were divided into three periods: immature (until postnatal day 11), transitional (postnatal days P12-17) and mature periods (after postnatal day 18). During the immature period, vomeronasal nerve layer stimulation provoked a characteristic damped oscillatory field potential, and the field potential recorded in the glomerular layer consisted of a compound action potential followed by several periodic negative peaks superimposed on slow components. Reduction in [Mg2+] enhanced slow components but did not affect oscillation, whereas an NMDA receptor antagonist, D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, depressed slow components but did not affect the oscillation. During the mature period, slow components and the periodic waves (oscillation) disappeared. The time course of the field potential was similar to that in adults, suggesting that the accessory olfactory bulb reached electrophysiologically maturity at postnatal day 18. A non-NMDA receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, inhibited vomeronasal nerve layer-induced responses, while D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate had no effect, suggesting that NMDA and non-NMDA receptors are active in immature tissues, whereas non-NMDA receptors predominated in mature tissue. Results from whole-cell patch recordings in mitral and granule cells yielded results consistent with those from field potential and optical recordings. Further, a gradual decrease in number and frequency of oscillating waves was observed until postnatal day 17. Analyses of the depth profile of field potentials and current source density in immature tissue suggested that the oscillation and slow components originated in the glomerular layer but not in the external plexiform/mitral cell layer. Further, a new type of oscillation, which was independent of the reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses between mitral and granule cells, was detected. These data indicate that the lack of oscillatory suppression by immature NMDA receptors may play a critical role in the dynamic alteration of bulbar conditions.
Corticotrophin-releasing hormone is a key regulator of the mammalian stress response. Although its actions on behavior are well documented, the actions of corticotrophin-releasing hormone in cortical neuronal systems are poorly understood. In the present experiments, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized and field excitatory post-synaptic potential recordings were made from sensorimotor cortex layer II/III and layer V cells. Infusions of corticotrophin-releasing hormone (100 ng/nl) directly into the sensorimotor cortex produced a significant depression of the initial excitatory component of evoked responses that could be prevented by prior administration of a corticotrophin-releasing hormone antagonist. Although requiring the activation of corticotrophin-releasing hormone receptors, the depression was also dependent upon N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activity and could be blocked by the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist -3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonate. These findings demonstrate that corticotrophin-releasing hormone has a novel depressant-like action in sensorimotor cortex in vivo that may play a role in modulating motor activity during periods of stress.
7-12 Hz Oscillations, characterized by spindle-like high-voltage rhythmic spike components, appear in quiet immobile states of rats. However, it remains unclear what their relationships with preceding behavioral activities are and how prefrontal neuronal dynamics during these oscillations is. In the present study, we first determined the relationship of 7-12 Hz oscillations with the wake-sleep cycle and preceding behavioral activities in several normal rat strains by recording electroencephalograms from the multiple cortical regions. Prolonged awake period transiently enhanced the following appearance of 7-12 Hz oscillations, which were frequently followed by slow-wave sleep. The degree of transient enhancement under the task condition was similar to that by prolonged wakefulness under the no-task condition. In addition, by recording local-field potential and multi-unit activities in the medial prefrontal cortex, we determined the temporal dynamics of prefrontal neuronal activities in relation to 7-12 Hz oscillations. Collective neuronal activities in medial prefrontal cortex were gradually organized into phase-locked patterns and showed highly synchronization during these oscillations. These dynamics were in temporal proximity to those of slow-wave activities (&lt;4 Hz). Since slow-wave activities are thought to synchronize large spatial domains, these results suggest that 7-12 Hz oscillations are involved in the transition from the awake to sleep states by oscillatory entrainment of global cortical networks including the prefrontal neurons.
Chronic treatment with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor paroxetine impairs the functioning of 5-HT(1A) receptors involved in ejaculation. This could underlie the development of delayed ejaculation often reported by men treated with paroxetine. The neurobiological substrate linking the effects of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor-treatment and 5-HT(1A) receptor activation with ejaculation was investigated. Male Wistar rats that were pretreated with paroxetine (20 mg/kg/day p.o.) or vehicle for 22 days and had received an additional injection with the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT ((+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propyl-amino)tetralin; 0.4 mg/kg s.c.) or saline on day 22, 30 min prior to a sexual behavior test, were perfused 1 h after the sexual behavior test. Brains were processed for Fos-, and oxytocin immunohistochemistry. The drug treatments markedly changed both sexual behavior and the pattern and number of Fos-immunoreactive cells in the brain. Chronic pretreatment with paroxetine caused delayed ejaculation. Acute injection with 8-OH-DPAT facilitated ejaculation in vehicle-pretreated rats, notably evident in a strongly reduced intromission frequency, whereas 8-OH-DPAT had no effects in paroxetine-pretreated rats. Chronic treatment with paroxetine reduced Fos-immunoreactivity in the locus coeruleus, and prevented the increase in Fos-immunoreactive neurons induced by 8-OH-DPAT in the oxytocinergic magnocellular part of the paraventricular nucleus as well as in the locus coeruleus. Since oxytocin and noradrenalin facilitate ejaculation, the alterations in Fos-IR in these areas could connect selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor treatment and 5-HT(1A) receptor activation to ejaculation. Chronic paroxetine treatment and 8-OH-DPAT changed c-fos expression in a number of other brain areas, indicating that Fos-immunohistochemistry is a useful tool to find locations where selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and 8-OH-DPAT exert their effects.
Acetylcholine and dopamine are simultaneously released in the cortex at the occurrence of novel stimuli. In addition to a series of excitatory effects, acetylcholine decreases the release of glutamate acting on presynaptic muscarinic receptors. By recording evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents in layers II/III neurons of the auditory cortex, we found that activation of muscarinic receptors by oxotremorine reduces the amplitude of glutamatergic current (A(oxo)/A(ctr) = 0.53 +/- 0.17) in the absence but not in the presence of dopamine (A(oxo)/A(ctr) = 0.89 +/- 0.12 in 20 microM dopamine). These data suggested that an excessive sensitivity to dopamine, such as postulated in schizophrenia, could prevent the decrease of glutamate release associated with the activation of cholinergic corticopetal nuclei. Thus, a possible mechanism of action of antipsychotic drugs could be through a depression of the glutamatergic signal in the auditory cortex. We tested the capability of haloperidol, clozapine and lamotrigine to affect glutamatergic synaptic currents and their muscarinic modulation. We found that antipsychotics not only work as dopamine receptor antagonists in re-establishing muscarinic modulation, but also directly depress glutamatergic currents. These results suggest that presynaptic modulation of glutamate release can account for a dual route of action of antipsychotic drugs.
The cortical representation of the body surface is not fixed, but rather, is continuously modified by ongoing changes in sensory experience. Although the cellular and molecular mechanisms that subserve these changes are uncertain, increasing evidence suggests that synaptically-released zinc may play a role. Zinc is released from a subset of glutamatergic neurons and can modulate postsynaptic excitability by regulating the activation of glutamate and GABA receptor-gated ion channels. Previously, we have shown that whisker plucking, a manipulation commonly used to induce cortical map plasticity, results in a rapid and robust increase in staining levels for synaptic zinc in deprived regions of the barrel cortex. In the present study, we examined the effect of increased whisker activity, analogous to what may happen during tactile learning or exploratory behavior in a natural setting, on synaptic zinc levels in the adult barrel cortex. Our results indicate that stimulation of whiskers caused a selective decrease in zinc levels within layer 4 of the barrel hollow corresponding to the stimulated whisker. Quantitatively, levels of staining were significantly reduced at 3 h, and showed even greater reductions following 12 and 24 h of stimulation. However, these changes were not long-lasting, as levels of staining in the stimulated barrel returned to control values within 24 h after stimulation had ceased. These data indicate that zincergic circuits are highly sensitive to ongoing changes in sensory experience and may participate in moment-to-moment changes in the functional connectivity of the cerebral cortex.
Pathological activation of microglia, which reside quiescently in physiological CNS, is associated with various neurodegenerative diseases. Endogenous polyamines, spermidine and spermine, are known to be activators of cell proliferation and differentiation. We previously reported that both spermidine and spermine induce dose-dependent cell death in cultured rat brain microglia at a submicromolar concentration range via apoptotic process, whereas cultured astrocytes were less sensitive to these polyamines [Neuroscience 120 (2003) 961]. These polyamine effects were observed only in the presence of fetal bovine serum. In the present study we examined further the mechanism of polyamine-induced microglial cell death. Amine oxidase in fetal bovine serum produces hydrogen peroxide and an aminoaldehyde from spermine, and the latter generates acrolein spontaneously. Acrolein was found to be much more toxic to microglia than to astrocytes and the effective concentration of acrolein was similar to that of spermine, whereas hydrogen peroxide was marginally toxic. Aminoguanidine, an inhibitor of amine oxidase, blocked the toxic effects of spermine on microglia. Spermine cytotoxicity was also prevented by antioxidant reagents; glutathione (reduced form), cysteine, and N-acetylcysteine. These results suggest that polyamine-induced apoptotic cell death of microglia is triggered by an oxidative stress with acrolein, which is produced by amine oxidase from polyamine. The different toxicities of polyamine between two glial cells may regulate the balance of glial activation in some pathological conditions of CNS.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide has been shown to reduce apoptosis in neonatal cerebellar and olfactory receptor neurons, however the underlying mechanisms have not been elucidated. In addition, the neuroprotective effects of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide have not been examined in adult tissues. To study the effects of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide on neurons in apoptosis, we measured caspase activation in adult olfactory receptor neurons in vitro. Interestingly, we found that the protective effects of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide were related to the absence of a 4-aminopyridine (IC50=144 microM) sensitive rapidly inactivating potassium current often referred to as A-type current. In the presence of 40 nM pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide 38, both A-type current and activated caspases were significantly reduced. A-type current reduction by pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide was blocked by inhibiting the phospholipase C pathway, but not the adenylyl cyclase pathway. Our observation that 5 mM 4-aminopyridine mimicked the caspase inhibiting effects of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide indicates that A-type current is involved in apoptosis. This work contributes to our growing understanding that potassium currents are involved with the activation of caspases to affect the balance between cell life and death.
Serotonin (5-HT) is a key modulator of neuronal excitability in the central and peripheral nervous system. In the enteric nervous system, 5-HT causes a slow depolarization in the intrinsic sensory neurons, but the receptor responsible for this has not been correlated with known gene products. The aim of this study was to determine whether the newly characterized 5-HT7 receptor may participate in the 5-HT-mediated depolarization of, and synaptic transmission to, the intrinsic sensory neurons of the guinea-pig ileum. Intracellular electrophysiological recordings were made from intrinsic sensory neurons identified as myenteric AH neurons from guinea-pig ileum. 5-HT (5 microM) applied to the cell body evoked both a fast depolarization (5-HT3 mediated) and/or a slow depolarization (5-HT1P-like). The 5-HT1/5/7 receptor agonist 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT) (5 microM) evoked only a slow depolarization. When the fast depolarization evoked by 5-HT was blocked with granisetron (1 microM, 5-HT3 receptor antagonist), only a slow depolarization remained; this was abolished by the 5-HT7 receptor antagonist SB 269970 (1 microM, control: 14+/-2 mV, granisetron+SB 269970: -1+/-2 mV). The slow depolarization evoked by 5-CT was also significantly reduced by SB 269970 (control: 14+/-1 mV, SB 269970: 5+/-2 mV) suggesting a 5-HT7 receptor was activated by exogenous application of 5-CT and 5-HT. Slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by stimulating descending neural pathways (containing serotonergic fibers) were reduced by SB 269970 (control: 8+/-3 mV, SB 269970: 3+/-1 mV). However, SB 269970 had no effect on slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by stimulation of circumferential (tachykinergic) pathways (control: 7+/-1 mV, SB 269970: 6+/-1 mV). These data are consistent with the presence on enteric AH neurons of functional 5-HT7 receptors that participate in slow synaptic transmission.
The effect of cervical spinal cord stimulation on the cerebral blood flow has been investigated both experimentally and clinically since 1986. Although the effect of the spinal cord stimulation on cerebral ischemia induced by cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage has been investigated widely, neurological dysfunction induced by cerebral vasospasm and the effect of the spinal cord stimulation on neurological dysfunction have not been investigated so far. The aim of this study is to investigate the neurological dysfunction induced by cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage and whether the spinal cord stimulation improves this neurological dysfunction or not in New Zealand albino rabbits. The animals were divided into sham and experiment groups: Sham group. Motor evoked potentials were recorded before experimental procedure was performed in this group. Just after, intracisternal saline was injected and 3 days later a stimulation electrode was placed in the cervical epidural space. Motor evoked potentials were recorded but electrical stimulation was not applied. Experiment group. Firstly, motor evoked potentials had been recorded before experimental procedure was performed in also this group. After then a stimulation electrode was placed in the cervical epidural space of the animals in which subarachnoid hemorrhage procedure was performed 3 days ago. Motor evoked potentials were recorded both before and after spinal cord stimulation. Motor evoked potential latencies and amplitudes did not change in the sham operation group. But, motor evoked potential latencies extended and the amplitudes decreased in the experiment group before spinal cord stimulation. Spinal cord stimulation improved the changes occurring in latencies and amplitudes in the experiment group. Spinal cord stimulation improves the neurological dysfunction induced by cerebral vasospasm and motor evoked potentials recording is a reliable electrophysiological method to detect cerebral vasospasm and to assess the effects of different treatments in cerebral vasospasm.
Expression of transcription factor AP-2 family genes in adult mouse brain regions was examined at RNA and protein levels and in tissue sections. AP-2 family RNA transcripts, nuclear AP-2 DNA binding activity, and AP-2 immunoreactivity were greatest in hindbrain and midbrain regions. Cells expressing AP-2 were predominantly differentiated neurons and were abundant in the solitary tract nucleus, hypoglossal nucleus, locus coeruleus, cerebellar molecular layer, superior colliculus, mitral cell layers of the main and accessory olfactory bulbs, and in some divisions of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Sexually dimorphic expression of AP-2 was seen in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, a forebrain region required for regulation of gender-specific reproductive and social behaviors. In males, AP-2 expressing neurons were present in supracapsular, lateral ventral, and medial ventral divisions of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. In contrast, females had AP-2 expressing neurons in the lateral ventral division, but not the supracapsular division, and AP-2 expression in medial ventral division neurons oscillated during the estrus cycle. With the exception of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, forebrain regions generally lacked cells with high levels of AP-2. However, a small population of cells co-expressing low levels of AP-2 and Notch1 was sparsely distributed in the cerebral cortex and hippocampal dentate gyrus subgranular zone. Based on their variable levels of NeuN, a marker for differentiated neurons, these cells may include nascent neurons. A subset of cerebellar Purkinje cells also co-expressed low levels of AP-2 and Notch1. Together, the adult brain regions with AP-2 expressing neurons are notable for their importance in pathways that integrate sensory and neuroendocrine information for regulation of reproductive, social, and feeding behaviors. Our data suggest that AP-2 transcription factors contribute at multiple levels to adult brain function including regulation of gender-specific behavior.
Inhibitory serotonergic and cholecystokinergic mechanisms in the lateral parabrachial nucleus and central GABAergic mechanisms are involved in the regulation of water and NaCl intake. In the present study we investigated if the GABA(A) receptors in the lateral parabrachial nucleus are involved in the control of water, NaCl and food intake in rats. Male Holtzman rats with stainless steel cannulas implanted bilaterally into the lateral parabrachial nucleus were used. Bilateral injections of muscimol (0.2 nmol/0.2 microl) into the lateral parabrachial nucleus strongly increased 0.3 M NaCl (20.3+/-7.2 vs. saline: 2.6+/-0.9 ml/180 min) without changing water intake induced by the treatment with the diuretic furosemide combined with low dose of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril s.c. In euhydrated and satiated rats, bilateral lateral parabrachial nucleus injections of muscimol (0.2 and 0.5 nmol/0.2 microl) induced 0.3 M NaCl intake (12.1+/-6.5 and 32.5+/-7.3 ml/180 min, respectively, vs. saline: 0.4+/-0.2 ml/180 min) and water intake (5.2+/-2.0 and 7.6+/-2.8 ml/180 min, respectively, vs. saline: 0.8+/-0.4 ml/180 min), but no food intake (2+/-0.4 g/240 min vs. saline: 1+/-0.3 g/240 min). Bilateral lateral parabrachial nucleus injections of the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline (1.6 nmol/0.2 microl) abolished the effects of muscimol (0.5 nmol/0.2 microl) on 0.3 M NaCl and water intake. Muscimol (0.5 nmol/0.2 microl) into the lateral parabrachial nucleus also induced a slight ingestion of water (4.2+/-1.6 ml/240 min vs. saline: 1.1+/-0.3 ml/240 min) when only water was available, a long lasting (for at least 2 h) increase on mean arterial pressure (14+/-4 mm Hg, vs. saline: -1+/-1 mm Hg) and only a tendency to increase urinary volume and Na+ and K+ renal excretion. Therefore the activation of GABA(A) receptors in the lateral parabrachial nucleus induces strong NaCl intake, a small ingestion of water and pressor responses, without changes on food intake.
Neuronal circuits are interconnected with a high degree of specificity. While axonal guidance has been demonstrated to be crucial for the choice of the correct target region, its role in specificity at the level of individual cells remains unclear. Specificity of synapse formation may either result from precise guidance of axonal outgrowth onto the target or depend on a molecular &quot;match&quot; between pre- and postsynapse. To distinguish between these possibilities, an in vitro system was used in which neuritic outgrowth of rat cortical neurons is accurately guided along the narrow pathways of a surface micropattern. The micropattern consisted of a blend of extracellular matrix molecules applied to a cell repellent background of polystyrene by microcontact printing. The system reproduces guidance by attractant and repellent surface cues while no other signals that may influence synapse formation, like gradients of trophic factors or accumulations of signaling molecules, are provided. While the number of contact points between neighboring cells was strongly reduced on patterned substrates due to the geometrical restrictions, frequency of synapse formation was not different from homogeneous cultures. Thus it was unaffected by stringent guidance onto the target cell or by the number of cell-cell contacts. Moreover, a statistically significant enrichment of reciprocal contacts between mixed pairs of excitatory and inhibitory neurons over probabilistic predictions was found, which has similarly been shown by others in dissociated neuronal cultures. Our results indicate that precise axonal guidance is insufficient for target-specific synapse formation and suggest that instead recognition between individual cells is required.
After recent clinical trials, statins have gained increasing significance in secondary stroke prevention. From experimental studies, it is well established that statins have beneficial action when delivered prophylactically prior to a stroke. Conversely, much less is known about the effects of statins on injury development when delivered after ischemia. We here examined the effects of a post-ischemic delivery of rosuvastatin (0.5, 5 or 20 mg/kg, administered i.p. immediately after reperfusion onset), a potent 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, on brain injury and cell signaling after focal cerebral ischemia, induced by 90 min of intraluminal middle cerebral artery occlusion in mice. In animals receiving normal saline, 0.5 or 5 mg/kg rosuvastatin, middle cerebral artery occlusions resulted in reproducible brain infarcts at 24 h after reperfusion onset, which did not differ in size. However, rosuvastatin, administered at higher doses (20 mg/kg), reduced infarct volume at 24 and 48 h after ischemia (by 34+/-16% and 18+/-3%, respectively, P&lt;0.05). Western blots revealed that rosuvastatin decreased phosphorylated extracellular-regulated kinase-1/-2 and reduced activated caspase-3 levels in ischemic brain areas, while endothelial NO synthase expression, p38 and Jun kinase phosphorylation were not influenced by the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor. Rosuvastatin also significantly diminished expression levels of inducible NO synthase in the ischemic brain. Our results indicate that rosuvastatin may have utility not only as stroke prophylaxis but also as acute therapy inhibiting executive cell death pathways.
Voltage-dependent potassium (Kv) channels in the CNS are involved in regulation of subthreshold membrane potentials, and thus reception and integration of synaptic signals. Although such features are particularly important for induction of hippocampal synaptic plasticity, relatively little is known about their subcellular localization. Here we analyzed the detailed distribution of Kv4.2 potassium channels in the mouse hippocampal region using confocal and electron microscopy. At the light microscopic level, the Kv4.2 immunoreactivity occurred in a punctate fashion in the whole area of the hippocampal region. In the hippocampus proper, most of the Kv4.2-positive puncta were small, and they were abundant at the dendritic compartments of pyramidal neurons. High-resolution confocal microscopy revealed that there was no apparent association between Kv4.2-positive puncta with major synaptic markers, such as vesicular glutamate transporters and glutamic acid decarboxylase. In the subicular complex and dentate gyrus, we encountered large distinct Kv4.2-positive puncta at the perimeter of somata and proximal dendrites of principal cells. These puncta were often in contact with glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive boutons, but showed no apparent association with vesicular glutamate transporters. The glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive boutons apposing to Kv4.2-positive puncta were parvalbumin-positive. Quantitative image analysis showed that approximately half of Kv4.2-positive puncta were closely apposed to glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive boutons in the parasubiculum and dentate gyrus. Electron microscopic examination substantiated the presence of large Kv4.2-positive patches at postsynaptic sites of symmetric synapses and small patches at extrasynaptic sites. No presynaptic terminals were labeled. The present findings indicate targeted clustering of Kv4.2 potassium channels at postsynaptic sites of GABAergic synapses and extrasynaptic sites, and provide some key to understand their role in the hippocampal region.
The presence and regulation of basic fibroblast growth factor and its high-affinity tyrosine kinase receptor FGFR3 in sensory neurons during development and after peripheral nerve injury suggest a physiological role of the fibroblast growth factor-2 system for survival and maintenance of sensory neurons. Here we investigated L5 spinal ganglia of intact and lesioned fibroblast growth factor-2 knock-out and FGFR3 knock-out mice. Quantification of sensory neurons in intact L5 spinal ganglia revealed no differences between wild-types and mutant mice. After sciatic nerve axotomy, the normally occurring neuron loss in wild-type mice was significantly reduced in both knock-out strains suggesting that fibroblast growth factor-2 is involved in neuronal death mediated via FGFR3. In addition, the number of chromatolytic and eccentric cells was significantly increased in fibroblast growth factor-2 knock-out mice indicating a transient protection of injured spinal ganglia neurons in the absence of fibroblast growth factor-2. The expression of the neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide in sensory neurons of intact fibroblast growth factor-2 knock-out and FGFR3 knock-out mice was not changed in comparison to adequate wild-types. Fibroblast growth factor-2 wild-type and FGFR3 wild-type mice showed a lesion-induced decrease of calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive neurons in ipsilateral L5 spinal ganglia whereas the loss of calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive sensory neurons is reduced in the absence of fibroblast growth factor-2 or FGFR3, respectively. In addition, FGFR3 wild-type and knock-out mice displayed a contralateral reduction of the neuropeptide after axotomy. These results suggest that endogenous fibroblast growth factor-2 and FGFR3 are crucially involved in the regulation of survival and calcitonin gene-related peptide expression of lumbar sensory neurons after lesion, but not during development.
Long-term drug-induced alterations in CNS gene expression may be responsible for some therapeutic effects, such as antidepressant action, as well as for psychopathological conditions, such as drug addiction and abuse. Transcription factors called &quot;clock&quot; genes can be affected by psychotropic drugs and may modify the expression pattern of other genes. In this study in mice, we investigated the delayed effects of single and repeated (i.e. 14 days) administration of the antidepressant fluoxetine and the psychostimulant cocaine on the brain expression of clock genes Period1, Period2, Period3, Clock, Bmal1, Cryptochrome1, Cryptochrome2, and NPAS2 (neuronal PAS domain protein 2), and their putative target gene, serotonin N-acetyltransferase. Mice were treated at ZT05 (lights on at 5:00 am; ZT00). Brain samples (i.e. hippocampus, striatum, and prefrontal cortex) were processed for a semi-quantitative mRNA assay. Repeated but not single treatment with either drug increased serotonin N-acetyltransferase expression in all areas tested. On the other hand, the expression of clock genes was differentially affected depending on the drug (i.e. fluoxetine and cocaine), treatment schedule (i.e. single and repeated), and brain area (i.e. hippocampus and striatum) tested. More pronounced changes were induced by repeated rather than single administrations of fluoxetine or cocaine. We propose that the effects of psychoactive drugs on clock transcription factors may mediate long-term drug-induced changes, possibly by regulating the expression of a second set of genes (i.e. clock-controlled genes).
Numerous factors modulate neurogenesis in the adult dentate gyrus and subventricular zone, but it is often not clear if the modulation is mediated by direct effects on the proliferating and differentiating cells or secondary to effects on other cells. Also, while some factors selectively affect neurogenesis in one of the neurogenetic zones, it is not clear how selectivity is achieved. Estrogen is a hormonal modulator of neurogenesis. To address the issues of direct versus indirect control and regional specificity we investigated the colocalization of immunoreactivity for a proliferating cell marker, Ki-67, and a marker for migrating and differentiating cells with a neuronal phenotype, doublecortin, with the expressions of mRNA for estrogen receptors alpha and beta. We found an extensive colocalization of estrogen receptor alpha with both markers in the dentate gyrus and only with Ki-67 in the subventricular zone. An extensive colocalization of estrogen receptor beta with both markers was found in the dentate gyrus, but only a few Ki-67-immunoreactive and no doublecortin-immunoreactive cells of the subventricular zone expressed estrogen receptor beta mRNA. Estrogen receptor alpha and beta mRNAs were not expressed in other telencephalic Ki-67-immunoreactive cells or in constitutively doublecortin-immunoreactive cells of the piriform cortex. The extensive colocalization of immunoreactive markers for cell proliferation and differentiation with mRNAs for estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta points to the direct modulation of dentate cell proliferation, differentiation and survival by estrogen, while direct effects of estrogen in the subventricular zone appear restricted to estrogen receptor alpha-mediated effects operating at the time of cell proliferation.
Adducins alpha, beta and gamma are proteins that link spectrin and actin in the regulation of cytoskeletal architecture and are substrates for protein kinase C and other signaling molecules. Previous studies have shown that expressions of phosphorylated adducin (phospho-adducin) and protein kinase C are increased in spinal cord tissue from patients who died with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a neurodegenerative disorder of motoneurons and other cells. However, the distribution of phospho-adducin immunoreactivity has not been described in the mammalian spinal cord. We have evaluated the distribution of immunoreactivity to serine/threonine-dependent phospho-adducin at a region corresponding to the myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate-related domain of adducin in spinal cords of mice over-expressing mutant human superoxide dismutase, an animal model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and in control littermates. We find phospho-adducin immunoreactivity in control spinal cord in ependymal cells surrounding the central canal, neurons and astrocytes. Phospho-adducin immunoreactivity is localized to the cell bodies, dendrites and axons of some motoneurons, as well as to astrocytes in the gray and white matter. Spinal cords of mutant human superoxide dismutase mice having motoneuron loss exhibit significantly increased phospho-adducin immunoreactivity in ventral and dorsal horn spinal cord regions, but not in ependyma surrounding the central canal, compared with control animals. Increased phospho-adducin immunoreactivity localizes predominantly to astrocytes and likely increases as a consequence of the astrogliosis that occurs in the mutant human superoxide dismutase mouse with disease progression. These findings demonstrate increased immunoreactivity against phosphorylated adducin at the myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate domain in a murine model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. As adducin is a substrate for protein kinase C at the myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate domain, the increased phospho-adducin immunoreactivity is likely a consequence of protein kinase C activation in neurons and astrocytes of the spinal cord and evidence for aberrant phosphorylation events in mutant human superoxide dismutase mice that may affect neuron survival.
The hypocretins (Hcrt; also known as orexins) and melanin-concentrating hormone comprise distinct families of neuropeptides synthesized in cells located in the lateral hypothalamus and adjacent areas. The Hcrts are thought to modulate food intake and sleep/wake patterns in mammals. Melanin-concentrating hormone has a well-documented role in energy metabolism. A moderate plexus of Hcrt immunoreactive terminals has been described in the hamster intergeniculate leaflet, part of the circadian rhythm system. This study investigated the origin of Hcrt-immunoreactive terminals in the intergeniculate leaflet and determined whether melanin-concentrating hormone neurons also project to the intergeniculate leaflet. The tracer, cholera toxin beta-subunit, was injected into the intergeniculate leaflet of the golden hamster. Double-label fluorescent immunohistochemistry for cholera toxin beta-subunit and Hcrt or melanin-concentrating hormone was then performed to identify retrogradely labeled cells also containing immunoreactive peptide. Most cholera toxin beta-subunit-labeled cells were detected in the medial zona incerta and sub-incertal zone, with few observed in the lateral hypothalamus. Hcrt-immunoreactive cells were abundant and found largely in the lateral hypothalamus and adjacent nuclei. Melanin-concentrating hormone cells were also abundant in the medial zona incerta, in close proximity to cholera toxin beta-subunit-labeled cells, but ventral to them. Cells containing both cholera toxin beta-subunit and Hcrt-immunoreactive, were present in the dorsal aspect of the lateral hypothalamus. The number observed was small, &lt; or = 1% of the total number of Hcrt cells counted in the hamster. No cholera toxin beta-subunit-immunoreactive cells also contained melanin-concentrating hormone and no melanin-concentrating hormone-immunoreactive processes were evident in the intergeniculate leaflet. The results show that a small number of lateral hypothalamus cells containing Hcrt-immunoreactivity project to the intergeniculate leaflet, but they are scattered rather than collected into a discrete group. At the present time there is no information regarding the function of these cells, although they may contribute to the regulation of sleep/arousal, circadian rhythmicity, or vestibulo-oculomotor function.
Bone marrow is the primary place of hematopoiesis, where the development, survival and release of multipotent stem cells, progenitors, precursors and mature cells are under continuous humoral and neural control. Dense network of nerve fibers, containing various neurotransmitters is found in the bone marrow, however, the central neuronal circuit that regulates the activities of the bone marrow through these fibers remained unexplored. Transsynaptically connected neurons were mapped by virus-based transneuronal tracing technique using two isogenic, genetically engineered pseudorabies viruses, Bartha-DupGreen and Ba-DupLac expressing green fluorescent protein and beta-galactosidase, respectively. Bartha-DupGreen was injected into the femoral bone marrow of male rats and the progression of infection was followed 4-7 days post-inoculation. Virus-labeled cells were revealed in ganglia of the paravertebral chain and in the intermediolateral cell column of the lower thoracic spinal cord. Neurons were retrogradely labeled in the C1, A5, A7 catecholaminergic cell groups and several other nuclei of the ventrolateral and ventromedial medulla, the periaqueductal gray matter, the paraventricular and other hypothalamic nuclei, and in the insular and piriform cortex. Nerve transections and double-virus tracing from the bone marrow and the surrounding muscles were used to confirm the specific spreading of the virus. These results provide anatomical evidence for the CNS control of the bone marrow and identify putative brain areas, which are involved in autonomic regulation of the hematopoiesis, the release of progenitor cells, the blood supply and the immune cell function in the bone marrow.
Ochratoxin A (OTA), a mycotoxin and widespread food contaminant, is known for its patent nephrotoxicity and potential neurotoxicity. Previous observations in vitro showed that in the CNS, glial cells were particularly sensitive to OTA. In the search for the molecular mechanisms underlying OTA neurotoxicity, we investigated the relationship between OTA toxicity and glial reactivity, in serum-free aggregating brain cell cultures. Using quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction to analyze changes in gene expression, we found that in astrocytes, non cytotoxic concentrations of OTA down-regulated glial fibrillary acidic protein, while it up-regulated vimentin and the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma expression. OTA also up-regulated the inducible nitric oxide synthase and the heme oxygenase-1. These OTA-induced alterations in gene expression were more pronounced in cultures at an advanced stage of maturation. The natural peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ligand, 15-deoxy-delta(12,14) prostaglandin J2, and the cyclic AMP analog, bromo cyclic AMP, significantly attenuated the strong induction of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma and inducible nitric oxide synthase, while they partially reversed the inhibitory effect of OTA on glial fibrillary acidic protein. The present results show that OTA affects the cytoskeletal integrity of astrocytes as well as the expression of genes pertaining to the brain inflammatory response system, and suggest that a relationship exists between the inflammatory events and the cytoskeletal changes induced by OTA. Furthermore, these results suggest that, by inducing an atypical glial reactivity, OTA may severely affect the neuroprotective capacity of glial cells.
A reduction of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGFalpha) expression in the spontaneous Waved-1 (Wa-1) mutant mouse causes specific behavioral and anatomical changes, including reduced fear learning and stress response and enlarged lateral ventricles. These alterations are observed predominantly in male Wa-1 mice after puberty. We hypothesized that regional differences in the expression of TGFalpha and its receptor, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), may regulate the sexual dimorphism of the brain structures and functions during postnatal development. In general, fear learning-associated structures, including hippocampus and amygdala, showed maximum expression before puberty, regardless of genotype. In contrast, an overall temporal delay in the rise of both transcript levels, which peaked around or after puberty onset, was observed for the major stress regulatory hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis. This pattern of expression was reversed for amygdala EGFR and hypothalamus TGFalpha and EGFR transcripts in males. When regional TGFalpha expression was compared between control and Wa-1 mice, far more complex patterns than expected were observed that revealed sex- and structure-dependent differences. In fact, the amygdala, hypothalamus, and pituitary TGFalpha expression pattern in Wa-1 exhibited a clear sex dependency across various age groups. Surprisingly, there was no compensatory up-regulation of the EGFR transcript in Wa-1 mice. The observed expression patterns of the TGFalpha signaling system during normal development and in the Wa-1 mutant mouse suggest complex sex- and age-dependent transcription regulatory mechanisms.
Section of motor nerve fibers (axotomy) elicits a variety of morphofunctional responses in the motoneurons in the motor nuclei. Later than the fifth post-operational day after section of the facial nerve, synapse elimination occurs in the facial motoneuron pool, leading to gradual abolishment of synaptic input-driven activities of the axotomized motoneurons. However, it remains unknown how the amount of synaptic input changes during this period between the axotomy and the synaptic elimination. Here we examined a hypothesis that axotomy of the motoneurons itself modifies the synaptic inputs to the motoneurons. One day after axotomy, the postsynaptic currents, mostly mediated by non-N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (non-NMDA) receptors, recorded from the axotomized facial motoneurons in the acute slice preparations of the rats were of higher frequency and larger amplitude than those in the intact motoneurons. This difference was not observed after the third post-operational day and appeared earlier than the changes in the electrophysiological properties and increase in the number of dead neurons in the axotomized motor nucleus. The larger postsynaptic current frequency of the axotomized motoneurons was observed both in the absence and in the presence of tetrodotoxin citrate, suggesting that increased excitability and facilitated release underlie the postsynaptic current frequency increase. These results suggest that synaptic re-organization occurs in the synapses of motoneurons at an early stage following axotomy.
Olfactory perception initiates in the nasal epithelium wherefrom olfactory receptor neurons--expressing the same receptor protein--project and converge in two different glomeruli within each olfactory bulb. Recent evidence suggests that glomeruli are isolated functional units, arranged in a chemotopic manner in the olfactory bulb. Exposure to odorants leads to the activation of specific populations of glomeruli. In rodents, about 25-50 mitral/tufted cells project their primary dendrites to a single glomerulus receiving similar sensory input. Yet, little is known about the properties of neighboring mitral/tufted cells connected to one or a few neighboring glomeruli. We used tetrodes to simultaneously record multiple single-unit activity in the mitral cell layer of anesthetized, freely breathing rats while exposed to mixtures of chemically related compounds. First, we characterized the odorant-induced modifications in firing rate of neighboring mitral/tufted cells and found that they do not share odorant response profiles. Individual units showed a long silent (11.01 ms) period with no oscillatory activity. Cross-correlation analysis between neighboring mitral/tufted cells revealed negligible synchronous activity among them. Finally, we show that respiratory-related temporal patterns are dissimilar among neighboring mitral/tufted cells and also that odorant stimulation results in an individual modification that is not necessarily shared by neighboring mitral/tufted cells. These results show that neighboring mitral/tufted cells frequently exhibit dissimilar response properties, which are not consistent with a precise chemotopic map at the mitral/tufted cell layer in the olfactory bulb.
Activation of the cholinergic innervation of the cortex has been implicated in sensory processing, learning, and memory. At the cellular level, acetylcholine both increases excitability and depresses synaptic transmission, and its effects on network firing are hard to predict. We studied the effects of carbachol, a cholinergic agonist, on network firing in cultures of rat cortical neurons, using electrode arrays to monitor the activity of large numbers of neurons simultaneously. These cultures show stable spontaneous synchronized burst firing which propagates through dense synaptic connections. Carbachol (10-50 microM), acting through muscarinic receptors, was found to induce a switch to asynchronous single-spike firing and to result in a loss of regularity and fragmentation of the burst structure. To obtain a quantitative measure of cholinergic actions on cortical networks, we applied a cluster Poisson-process model to sets of paralleled spike-trains in the presence and absence of carbachol. This revealed that the time series can be well-characterized by such a simple model, consistent with the observed 1/f(b)-like spectra (0.04&lt;b&lt;2.08). After applying higher concentrations of carbachol the property of the spectra shifted toward a Poisson-process (white) spectrum. These results indicate that cholinergic neurotransmitters have a strong and reliable desynchronizing action on cortical neural activity.
Recent studies have demonstrated that astrocytes express a variety of ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors and can modulate the activity of neurons. Since a single astrocyte makes tight contacts with many neighboring neuronal cells, they can provide efficient and wide modulation of neuronal networks. Here, we provide direct evidence for mutual interactions between perineuronal astrocytes and interneurons in the stratum radiatum of the rat hippocampus. Direct depolarization of a perineuronal astrocyte suppressed the excitatory postsynaptic currents in an adjacent interneuron and increased the paired-pulse ratio, indicating that perineuronal astrocytes have a suppressive effect on presynaptic elements. Moreover, perineuronal astrocyte activation modulated the directly induced firing pattern of the interneuron, with initial facilitation and subsequent suppression. Conversely, direct firing of the interneuron depolarized the membrane potential and reduced the input resistance of the perineuronal astrocyte. These results directly demonstrate the existence of bidirectional interactions between neurons and perineuronal astrocytes.
Spinal nucleus of bulbocavernosus and its target musculature, the bulbocavernosus and levator ani muscles, are sexually dimorphic, and their sexual differentiation depends on plasmatic levels of testosterone. Electrophysiological and immunocytochemical studies have demonstrated that at mammalian adult neuromuscular junctions only P/Q-type Ca2+ channels (Ca(v2.1)), mediate evoked transmitter release. Here we report that N-type Ca2+ channel (Ca(v2.2)) blocker omega-Conotoxin GVIA, as well as Ca(v2.1) blocker omega-Agatoxin IVA, significantly reduced quantal content of transmitter release by approximately 80% and approximately 70% respectively at levator ani muscle of the adult rats, indicating that neuromuscular transmission is jointly mediated by both types of channels. In these synapses, we also observed that castration and restitution of plasmatic testosterone in rats resulted in changes in the sensitivity to omega-Conotoxin GVIA. Castration induced, whereas testosterone treatment avoided, functional loss of Ca(v2.2), as mediators of transmitter release in these synapses. Strikingly, the expression and localization of alpha1B subunits, which form the pore of the Ca(v2.2) channel, were similar at control, gonadectomized and gonadectomized testosterone-treated rats, suggesting that testosterone may regulate the coupling mechanisms between Ca(v2.2) and transmitter release at the neuromuscular junctions of these sexually dimorphic motoneurons.
Most drugs of abuse increase dopamine (DA) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), and do so every time as a pharmacological response. Palatable food also releases accumbens-shell DA, but in nave rats the effect can wane during a long meal and disappears with repetition. Under select dietary circumstances, sugar can have effects similar to a drug of abuse. Rats show signs of DA sensitization and opioid dependence when given intermittent access to sucrose, such as alterations in DA and mu-opioid receptors, cross-sensitization with amphetamine and alcohol, and behavioral and neurochemical signs of naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. The present experiment asks whether sucrose-dependent rats release DA each time they binge. We also predict that acetylcholine (ACh), which rises as the end of a meal, will be delayed in rats with intermittent access to sucrose. To create dependency, the experimental group (Daily Intermittent Sucrose) was maintained on a diet of 12-h food deprivation that extended 4 h into the dark, followed by 12-h access to a 10% sucrose solution and chow, daily, for 21 days. As the main result, these rats gradually increased their sucrose intake from 37 to 112 ml per day (from 13 to 20 ml in the first hour of access), and repeatedly increased extracellular DA to 130% of baseline as measured in the NAc shell by microdialysis during the first hour of sucrose access on day 1, day 2 and day 21. Three control groups failed to show a significant increase in extracellular DA on day 21: Sucrose only for 1 h on days 1 and 21 (Sucrose Twice), ad libitum access to sucrose and chow (Daily Ad libitum Sucrose), and intermittent chow instead of sucrose (Daily Intermittent Chow). Acetylcholine measured at the same time as DA, increased significantly toward the end and after each test meal in all groups. In the Daily Intermittent Sucrose group, the highest ACh levels (133%) occurred during the first sample after the sucrose meal ended. In summary, sucrose-dependent animals have a delayed ACh satiation response, drink more sucrose, and release more DA than sucrose- or binge-experienced, but non-dependent animals. These results suggest another neurochemical similarity between intermittent bingeing on sucrose and drugs of abuse: both can repeatedly increase extracellular DA in the NAc shell.
To provide direct evidence for substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) control of oro-facio-lingual muscle activity, high-frequency electrical microstimulation (mainly trains of 20, 333-Hz cathodal pulses at 40-60 microA) and GABA microinjection (1-5 microl of 10 mM GABA in saline) were carried out using a three-barreled microelectrode at the same SNr site in lightly anesthetized, chronically decorticated rats (n=39). Decortication eliminated the possibility that SNr microstimulation might activate corticofugal fibers descending in the adjoining cerebral peduncle. When the most ventral layer of the SNr was approached, high-amplitude electromyographic (EMG) activity of up to 6 mV with a distinctive waveform appeared synchronously with electrical stimuli in the anterior digastric, masseter, genioglossus, and levator labii superioris muscles. This EMG activity was evoked bilaterally, with an ipsilateral predominance. Eye movements, mostly rotation of the eyeball vertically down in the orbit, were noted. Infrequent blinking was also noted. Histologic examination localized the effector site to the middle third of the mediolateral extent of the caudal SNr corresponding to between 5.8 mm (level of the oculomotor nerve) and 6.5mm (caudal end of the SNr) caudal to bregma; and to the ventralmost peripeduncular region of the SNr corresponding to 7.7 mm to 8.0 mm beneath the cortical surface. We referred to this site as the substantia nigra pars reticulata oro-facio-lingual (SNr-ofl) region. GABA injection produced tonic EMG discharge with consistent amplitude in all of the four muscles studied. The GABA effect was negated by a preceding microinjection of the GABA-A receptor antagonist bicuculline, whereas saline control injection had no effect. Changes in amplitude of evoked EMG activity according to location of the stimulating microelectrode reflected somatotopic organization of the SNr-ofl region. This extremely localized electrical and receptor microstimulation in the SNr produced synchronized powerful contraction of jaw, tongue, and facial muscles with different neural innervation. These findings advance our understanding of the mechanisms of the SNr concerning oro-facio-lingual movements.
Spinal interneurons are essential integrators of descending and peripheral input that receive profuse monoaminergic influence from brainstem nuclei. In this study, the effects of the monoamines serotonin and norepinephrine on the intrinsic properties of ventral horn interneurons were investigated in a slice preparation of the lumbar cord of 7-19 day old rats. Three cell groups with distinct firing patterns in response to steps of injected current were observed and classified as repetitive-firing, initial-burst or single-spiking. Input conductance tended to be largest in single-spiking cells whereas repetitive-firing cells showed the greatest tendency for spontaneous firing and had the fastest rate of rise for the action potential. Rhythmic firing behaviors were defined by the frequency-current relation evoked by linearly increasing current ramps. The monoaminergic modulation of firing patterns and frequency-current relations was primarily studied in repetitive-firing cells. The frequency-current threshold current was decreased in cells with high pre-drug values and increased in cells with low pre-drug values. Therefore, monoamine administration decreased the input-output heterogeneity of the repetitive-firing cells by compressing the range of frequency-current threshold currents. This action of monoamines may have a key role in the suppression of sensory-evoked reflexes and the production of coordinated movement.
Recent in vitro electrophysiological studies have revealed that neighboring interneurons interact with each other in a sub-millisecond time range via gap junctions and that individual dendritic compartments generate local excitation spikes and back-propagated spikes within a single-neuron. However, most in vivo electrophysiological studies using behaving animals only focus on activity rates of single-neurons and/or large neuronal populations without considering the potential role of such sub-millisecond interactions among neurons. This neglect is due to the limitation of ordinary in vivo multi-neuronal recording and spike sorting techniques applied to behaving animals. Though independent component analysis (ICA) is a powerful method to overcome certain limitations, ICA has a serious problem in that the number of single-electrodes (microwires) must be more than the number of single-neurons to be recorded. Our recently-developed method has solved this limitation of ICA, but a few problems have remained: the computational load is heavy, the method can be used only for off-line, not real-time, processing, and the electrode-neuron drift problem remains unsolved. In this paper, solving all these problems, we introduce a novel system consisting of automatic and real-time spike sorting with ICA in combination with a newly developed multi-electrode, dodecatrode. The system has the potential to answer some important neurobiological questions that have not been explored in in vivo electrophysiological experiments: how sub-millisecond interactions between closely neighboring single-neurons act in freely behaving animals. The system promises to be a bridge connecting electrophysiological studies in vitro and in vivo.
We studied the effects of carbachol, a cholinergic agonist, on extracellularly evoked firing of networks in mature cultures of rat cortical neurons, using multi-electrode arrays to monitor the activity of large numbers of neurons simultaneously. These cultures show evoked burst firing which propagates through dense synaptic connections. When a brief voltage pulse was applied to one extracellular electrode, spiking electrical responses were evoked in neurons throughout the network. The response had two components: an early phase, terminating within 30-80 ms, and a late phase which could last several hundreds of milliseconds. Action potentials evoked during the early phase were precisely timed, with only small jitter. In contrast, the late phase characteristically showed clusters of electrical activity with significant spatio-temporal fluctuations. The late phase was suppressed by applying a relatively small amount of carbachol (5 microM) in the external solution, even though the spontaneous firing rate was not significantly changed. Carbachol increased both the spike-timing precision and the speed of propagation of population spikes, and selectively increased the firing coincidence in a subset of neuron pairs in the network, while suppressing late variable firing in responses. Hence, the results give quantitative support for the idea that cholinergic activation in the cortex has a general role of focusing or enhancing significant associative firing of neurons.
Recent studies have revealed systematic differences in the pyramidal cell structure between functionally related cortical areas of primates. Trends for a parallel in pyramidal cell structure and functional complexity have been reported in visual, somatosensory, motor, cingulate and prefrontal cortex in the macaque monkey cortex. These specializations in structure have been interpreted as being fundamental in determining cellular and systems function, endowing circuits in these different cortical areas with different computational power. In the present study we extend our initial finding of systematic specialization of pyramidal cell structure in sensory-motor cortex in the macaque monkey [Cereb Cortex 12 (2002) 1071] to the vervet monkey. More specifically, we investigated pyramidal cell structure in somatosensory and motor areas 1/2, 5, 7, 4 and 6. Neurones in fixed, flat-mounted, cortical slices were injected intracellularly with Lucifer Yellow and processed for a light-stable 3,3'-diaminobenzidine reaction product. The size of, number of branches in, and spine density of the basal dendritic arbors varied systematically such that there was a trend for increasing complexity in arbor structure with progression through 1/2, 5 and 7. In addition, cells in area 6 were larger, more branched, and more spinous than those in area 4.
In the present study we analyzed the structural features of extraglomerular gap junction-forming processes in mouse olfactory bulb electron microscopically. This work complements a previous study in which we analyzed the structural features of neuronal gap junction-forming processes within the glomerulus itself. Furthermore we examined connexin 36 expressing cells in the mouse olfactory bulb by analyzing transgenic mice in which the connexin 36 coding sequence was replaced with histological reporters. In extraglomerular regions, the mitral/tufted cell somata, dendrites and axon hillocks made gap junctions and mixed synapses with interneuronal processes. These gap junctions and synapses were associated with various types of interneuronal processes, including a particular type of sheet-like or calyx-like process contacting the somata or large dendrites of mitral/tufted cells. In the olfactory bulbs of the transgenic mice, connexin 36 was expressed in mitral cells, tufted cells, presumed granule cells and periglomerular cells. Multiple immunofluorescent labelings further revealed that presumed interneurons expressing connexin 36 in the periglomerular region rarely expressed calbindin, calretinin or tyrosine hydroxylase and are likely to comprise a chemically uncharacterized class of neurons. Similarly, interneurons expressing connexin 36 in the granule cell layer were rarely positive for calretinin, which was expressed in numerous presumed granule cells in the mouse main olfactory bulb. In summary, these findings revealed that mitral/tufted cells make gap junctions with diverse types of neurons; in the glomeruli gap junction-forming interneuronal processes originated from some types of periglomerular cells but others from a hitherto uncharacterized neuron type(s), and in the extraglomerular region gap-junction forming processes originate mainly from a subset of cells within the granule cell layer.
Chronic neuroinflammation plays a prominent role in the progression of Alzheimer's disease. Reactive microglia and astrocytes are observed within the hippocampus during the early stages of the disease. Epidemiological findings suggest that anti-inflammatory therapies may slow the onset of Alzheimer's disease. Chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) up-regulation may influence the recruitment and accumulation of glia near senile plaques; activated microglia express CCR5 and reactive astrocytes express chemokines. We have previously shown that neuroinflammation induced by chronic infusion of lipopolysaccharide into the 4th ventricle reproduces many of the behavioral, neurochemical, electrophysiological and neuropathological changes associated with Alzheimer's disease. The current study investigated the ability of D-Ala-peptide T-amide (DAPTA), a chemokine receptor 5 chemokine receptor antagonist of monocyte chemotaxis, to influence the consequences of chronic infusion of lipopolysaccharide. DAPTA (0.01 mg/kg, s.c., for 14 days) dramatically reduced the number of activated microglia and astrocytes, as compared with lipopolysaccharide-infused rats treated with vehicle. DAPTA treatment also reduced the number of immunoreactive cells expressing nuclear factor kappa binding protein, a prominent component of the proinflammatory cytokine signaling pathway. The present study suggests that DAPTA and other CCR5 antagonists may attenuate critical aspects of the neuroinflammation associated with Alzheimer's disease.
Although numerous studies have demonstrated a neuroprotective and anti-apoptotic role of lithium in neuronal cell cultures, the precise mechanism by which this occurs, remains to be elucidated. In this study, we evaluated the lithium-mediated neuroprotection against colchicine-induced apoptosis in cultured cerebellar granule neurons. Previously, it has been demonstrated that colchicine mediates apoptosis in cerebellar granule neurons through cytoskeletal alteration and activation of an intrinsic pro-apoptotic pathway. Recently we also demonstrated a potential role of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) in this pathway. Here we report that colchicine induces dephosphorylation in Ser-9 and phosphorylation in Tyr-216, and thus activation, of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta in cerebellar granule neurons, and that this modification is inhibited by the presence of 5 mM lithium. However, the selective glycogen synthase kinase-3beta inhibitors SB-415286 and SB-216763 were unable to prevent colchicine-induced apoptosis in these cells, suggesting that the anti-apoptotic activity of lithium is not mediated by glycogen synthase kinase-3beta under these conditions. On the other hand, 5 mM lithium prevented the colchicine-induced increase in cdk5 expression and breakdown of cdk5/p35 to cdk5/p25. In addition, we show that up-regulation of cdk5/p25 is unrelated to inhibition of the activity of myocyte enhancer factor 2, a pro-survival transcription factor. These data suggest a previously undescribed neuroprotective mechanism of lithium associated with the modulation of cdk5/p35 or cdk5/p25 expression.
Traumatic brain injury causes long-term neurological motor and cognitive deficits, often with limited recovery. The inability of CNS axons to regenerate following traumatic brain injury may be due, in part, to inhibitory molecules associated with myelin. One of these myelin-associated proteins, Nogo-A, inhibits neurite outgrowth in vitro, and inhibition of Nogo-A in vivo enhances axonal outgrowth and sprouting and improves outcome following experimental CNS insults. However, the involvement of Nogo-A in the neurobehavioral deficits observed in experimental traumatic brain injury remains unknown and was evaluated in the present study using the 11C7 monoclonal antibody against Nogo-A. Anesthetized, male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to either lateral fluid percussion brain injury of moderate severity (2.5-2.6 atm) or sham injury. Beginning 24 h post-injury, monoclonal antibody 11C7 (n=17 injured, n=6 shams included) or control Ab (IgG) (n=16 injured, n=5 shams included) was infused at a rate of 5 microl/h over 14 days into the ipsilateral ventricle using osmotic minipumps connected to an implanted cannula. Rats were assessed up to 4 weeks post-injury using tests for neurological motor function (composite neuroscore, and sensorimotor test of adhesive paper removal) and, at 4 weeks, cognition was assessed using the Morris water maze. Hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neuron damage and corticospinal tract sprouting, using an anterograde tracer (biotinylated dextran amine), were also evaluated. Brain injury significantly increased sprouting from the uninjured corticospinal tract but treatment with monoclonal antibody 11C7 did not further increase the extent of sprouting nor did it alter the extent of CA3 cell damage. Animals treated with 11C7 showed no improvement in neurologic motor deficits but did show significantly improved cognitive function at 4 weeks post-injury when compared with brain-injured, IgG-treated animals. To our knowledge, the present findings are the first to suggest that (1) traumatic brain injury induces axonal sprouting in the corticospinal tract and this sprouting may be independent of myelin-associated inhibitory factors and (2) that post-traumatic inhibition of Nogo-A may promote cognitive recovery unrelated to sprouting in the corticospinal tract or neuroprotective effects on hippocampal cell loss following experimental traumatic brain injury.
Auditory cortex neurons integrate information over a broad range of sound frequencies, yet it is not known how such integration is accomplished at the cellular or systems levels. Whereas information about frequencies near a neuron's characteristic frequency is likely to be relayed to the neuron by lemniscal thalamocortical inputs from the ventral division of the medial geniculate nucleus, we recently proposed that information about frequencies spectrally distant from characteristic frequency is mainly relayed to the neuron via &quot;horizontal&quot; intracortical projections from neurons with spectrally-distant characteristic frequencies [J Neurophysiol 91 (2004) 2551]. Here we test this hypothesis by using current source density analysis to determine if characteristic frequency and spectrally-distant non-characteristic frequency stimuli preferentially activate thalamocortical and horizontal pathways, respectively, in rat auditory cortex. Characteristic frequency stimuli produced current source density profiles with prominent initial current sinks in layers 3 and 4--the termination zone of lemniscal inputs from medial geniculate nucleus. In contrast, stimuli three octaves below characteristic frequency produced initial current sinks mainly in the infragranular layers. Differences between current source density profiles were only apparent for initial current sinks; profiles for longer-latency current sinks evoked by characteristic frequency and non-characteristic frequency stimuli overlapped to a greater degree, likely due to shared mechanisms of intracortical processing or to longer-latency thalamocortical contributions (lemniscal and nonlemniscal). To identify current source density profiles produced by activation of lemniscal thalamocortical inputs alone, we utilized the mouse auditory thalamocortical slice preparation. Electrical stimulation of the medial geniculate nucleus in vitro produced major current sinks in cortical layers 3/4, and excitation spread horizontally from this point throughout primary auditory cortex to produce current sinks in multiple cortical layers. These data support the hypothesis that relay of thalamocortical information throughout auditory cortex via horizontal intracortical projections may be the basis of broad spectral integration in vivo.
The effect of coincident stimulation of convergent corticostriatal inputs was analyzed by the induction of immediate early genes in striatal neurons. Cortical motor areas were stimulated through implanted electrodes in awake, behaving rats, and the induction of the mRNAs encoding the immediate early genes (IEGs) c-fos and arc was analyzed in the striatum with in situ hybridization histochemistry. In the first experiment, unilateral stimulation of the medial agranular cortex, orofacial region of the lateral agranular cortex or the forelimb region of the lateral agranular cortex resulted in IEG induction in the striatum, which was restricted to the topographically related area receiving input from the stimulated cortical area. In a second experiment, stimulation parameters were altered, including frequency, number of pulses/train, and number of trains/s. These parameters did not have a significant effect on IEG induction. Notably, in some cases, in which there was IEG induction not only in the stimulated cortical region, but also in the homologous area in the contralateral hemisphere, very robust IEG induction was observed in the striatum. In a third experiment, the orofacial regions of the lateral agranular cortex of both hemispheres were stimulated coincidently. All of these animals showed robust striatal IEG induction. This IEG induction was attenuated by pretreatment with an NMDA antagonist MK-801. In a fourth experiment, we tested whether the coincidence of bilateral cortical stimulation contributed to the efficacy of striatal IEG induction. Either alternating stimulation or coincident stimulation of non-homologous cortical regions produced significantly lower striatal IEG induction than obtained with coincident stimulation of homologous cortical areas. Enhanced striatal IEG induction occurred in indirect striatal neurons, labeled with enkephalin, but was also present in a large number of enkephalin-negative neurons, most of which are likely direct pathway neurons. These results suggest that regional and temporal convergence of cortical inputs enhances striatal IEG induction.
Recent evidence suggests that serotonin has pronociceptive actions in the spinal cord when it acts through 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(3) receptors. Cells and axon terminals which are concentrated in the superficial dorsal horn possess this receptor. We performed a series of immunocytochemical studies with an antibody raised against the 5-HT(3A) subunit in order to address the following questions: 1) Are axons that possess 5-HT(3) receptors excitatory? 2) Are 5-HT(3) receptors present on terminals of myelinated primary afferents? 3) What is the chemical nature of dorsal horn cells that possess 5-HT(3) receptors? 4) Do axons that possess 5-HT(3) receptors target lamina I projection cells? Approximately 45% of 5-HT(3A) immunoreactive boutons were immunoreactive for the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 and almost 80% formed synapse-like associations with GluR2 subunits of the AMPA receptor therefore it is principally glutamatergic axons that possess the receptor. Immunoreactivity was not present on myelinated primary afferent axons labeled with the B-subunit of cholera toxin or those containing the vesicular glutamate transporter 1. Calbindin (which is associated with excitatory interneurons) was found in 44% of 5-HT(3A) immunoreactive cells but other markers for inhibitory and excitatory cells were not present. Lamina I projection cells that possessed the neurokinin-1 receptor were associated with 5-HT(3A) axons but the density of contacts on individual neurons varied considerably. The results suggest that 5-HT(3) receptors are present principally on terminals of excitatory axons, and at least some of these originate from dorsal horn interneurons. The relationship between lamina I projection cells and axons possessing the 5-HT(3) receptor indicates that this receptor has an important role in regulation of ascending nociceptive information.
Vagal nerve stimulation has been reported to enhance memory in both rats and humans, and to be an effective treatment for epilepsy in some patients, but the underlying neuroanatomical substrate(s) responsible for these effects remains unknown. Since there is no direct anatomical projection from the nucleus tractus solitarius, the main vagal relay site of the brain, to the hippocampus, we tested whether a multisynaptic pathway exists. Pseudorabies virus, a pig herpesvirus that can be used as a retrograde transneuronal tracer, was injected into the ventral CA1 hippocampus of rats, and after 4 days, pseudorabies virus infected neurons were identified in the general visceral portion of the nucleus tractus solitarius, with the majority being localized in the A2 noradrenergic cell group. Other autonomic brainstem nuclei, including the parabrachial nucleus, locus coeruleus, A1 and A5 noradrenergic cell groups, and C1 adrenergic cell group, were labeled. In order to identify some of the potential relay sites of the nucleus tractus solitarius--&gt;hippocampal pathway, immunotoxin lesions of the ventral CA1 region were made that selectively destroyed either the noradrenergic or cholinergic fibers. After 2 weeks' recovery, pseudorabies virus was injected in this same CA1 area, and 4 days later, the transneuronal labeling in the nucleus tractus solitarius was reduced by approximately 65%. These findings suggest that the noradrenergic neurons of the locus coeruleus and cholinergic neurons of the medial septum/diagonal band are likely to be relay sites for this pathway. Other potential linkages are discussed. In summary, this is the first anatomical report to show that the general visceral region of nucleus tractus solitarius is linked via multisynaptic relays to the hippocampus.
(-)Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol is a scavenger of free radicals. However, the activation of the CB1 receptor in cultured C6 glioma cells by (-)delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol in the presence of reagents generating reactive oxygen species leads to amplification of the cellular damage from oxidative stress. This was evident by increased loss of cell wall integrity, impaired mitochondrial function and reduction of glucose uptake. In addition, (-)delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol treatment was also found to be deleterious to the cells under conditions of glucose starvation. Free radicals have been implicated in various conditions leading to cell death and, as a routine, the Fenton reaction is utilized for modeling reactive oxygen species production. Our study was performed using a cell permeating Fe(III) chelating quinone that provides more physiological conditions for mimicking the naturally occurring oxidative stress within the cell and thus serves as a better model for natural reactive oxygen species formation.
Neuronal responses to complex prey-like stimuli and rectangles were investigated in the tectum of the salamander Plethodon shermani using extracellular single-cell recording. Cricket dummies differing in size, contrast or movement pattern or a rectangle were moved singly through the excitatory receptive field of a neuron. Paired presentations were performed, in which a reference stimulus was moved inside and the different cricket dummies or the rectangle outside the excitatory receptive field. Visual object recognition involves much more complex spatial and temporal processing than previously assumed in amphibians. This concerns significant changes in absolute number of spikes, temporal discharge pattern, and receptive field size. At single presentation of stimuli, the number of discharges was significantly changed compared with the reference stimulus, and in the majority of neurons the temporal pattern of discharges was changed in addition. At paired presentation of stimuli, neurons mainly revealed a significant decrease in average spike number and a reduction of excitatory receptive field size to presentation of the reference stimulus inside the excitatory receptive field, when a large-sized cricket stimulus or the rectangle was located outside the excitatory receptive field. This inhibition was significantly greater for the large-sized cricket stimulus than for the rectangle, and indicates the biological relevance of the prey-like stimulus in object selection. The response properties of tectal neurons at single or paired presentation of stimuli indicate that tectal neurons integrate information across a much larger part of visual space than covered by the excitatory receptive field. The spike number of a tectal neuron and the spatio-temporal extent of its excitatory receptive field are not fixed but depend on the context, i.e. the stimulus type and combination. This dynamic processing corresponds with the selection of the stimuli in the visual orienting behavior of Plethodon investigated in a previous study, and we assume that tectal processing is modulated by top down processes as well as feedback circuitries.
Effects of neuropeptide Y (NPY) on substantia gelatinosa neurons were investigated in adult rat spinal cord slices using blind whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Bath application of NPY (1 microM) induced a membrane hyperpolarization, resulting in a suppression of the dorsal root stimulation-induced action potentials in 24% of the substantia gelatinosa neurons tested. In voltage clamp mode, NPY produced an outward current dose-dependently in about one third of substantia gelatinosa neurons at the holding potential of -60 mV, which was not affected by tetrodotoxin (1 microM). The NPY-induced current was suppressed by perfusion with a Ba2+-containing external solution and a Cs2SO4 or tetraethylammonium-containing pipette solution. In addition, The NPY-induced outward currents reversed its polarity near the equilibrium potential of K+ ions (-93 mV). The response to NPY recorded with guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate)-beta-S (GDP-beta-S) containing pipette solution was abolished 30 min after patch formation, suggesting that the response was mediated by the G-protein-coupled receptors. Application of an NPY-Y1 selective agonist, [Leu(31), Pro(-34)]-NPY (1 microM), for 30 s also induced an outward current with a similar time course and amplitude to that induced by NPY. On the other hand, the NPY response was blocked by a simultaneous application of NPY-Y1 selective antagonist, BIBP 3226 (1 microM). No significant changes were found in amplitude and frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents and dorsal root evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents by NPY. In addition, NPY did not affect both of the miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents and evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents, mediated by either the GABA or glycine receptor. These findings, taken together, suggest that NPY produces an outward current in substantia gelatinosa neurons through G-protein coupled, and NPY-Y1 receptor-mediated activation of K+ channels without affecting presynaptic components. The inhibition of the synaptic transmission from the primary fibers to the substantia gelatinosa neurons is considered to contribute to the antinociceptive effects of NPY.
The Drosophila inhibitor-kappaB ortholog Cactus acts as an inhibitor of the Rel-transcription factors Dorsal and Dif. In blastoderm cells and immune competent cells, Cactus inhibits Dorsal and Dif by preventing their nuclear localization. Cactus, Dorsal and Dif are also expressed in somatic muscles, where Cactus and Dorsal, but not Dif, are enriched at the neuromuscular junction. Mutations in dorsal cause neuromuscular defects and mislocalization of Cactus. Here, we investigated whether mutations in cactus affect the neuromuscular system and subcellular localization of Dorsal and Dif. Using locomotion assays, as well as physiological and immunochemical methods, we found that wild type Cactus is necessary for the normal function of the larval neuromuscular system. The phenotype comprises i) altered bouton numbers and impaired neurotransmitter release in the neuromuscular junctions in the abdominal segments, ii) muscular weakness and iii) poor locomotion performance, probably reflecting a general neuromuscular impairment. Interestingly, in cactus mutants the subcellular localization of Dorsal and Dif in muscle is not affected, whereas cactus protein is not detected in the nucleus. This suggests, together with the similarities between the phenotypes induced by cactus and dorsal mutations, that in larval muscles the function of Cactus might be cooperation to the transcriptional activity of Rel proteins more than their cytoplasmic retention. The similarities with inhibitor-kappaB/nuclear factor kappaB interactions and muscle pathology in mammals point to Drosophila as a suitable experimental system to clarify the complex interactions of these proteins in muscle postembryonic development and activity.
Circumstantial evidence suggests that sensitization to the behavioral effects of d-amphetamine is mediated by increased glutamate levels in the ventral tegmental area. To test this directly, the present study examined whether increasing glutamate levels in the ventral tegmental area with a glutamate uptake inhibitor is sufficient, in the absence of d-amphetamine administration, to elicit sensitization to a subsequent d-amphetamine challenge. Rats were treated bilaterally once a day for 2 days with either intra-ventral tegmental area L-trans-pyrollidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (50 nmol), saline, L-trans-pyrollidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid coadministered with the competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate antagonist (+/-)-3-(2-carboxy-piperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid; CPP, 0.5 nmol), or CPP alone (0.5 nmol; all 1.0 microl/side). Following a 2 day withdrawal period, all rats were administered systemic d-amphetamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.). Repeated intra-ventral tegmental area injection of L-trans-pyrollidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid sensitized animals to the behavioral effects of a systemic d-amphetamine challenge, an action which was blocked by co-administration of CPP. The results directly implicate ventral tegmental area glutamate in the process of sensitization to d-amphetamine. Furthermore, they demonstrate that inhibition of glutamate uptake produces the neuroadaptations necessary to induce sensitization, adding support to the contention that d-amphetamine sensitizes by modulating glutamate uptake.
Although estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) mRNA has been detected in the primate frontal cortex, the types of ERalpha transcripts expressed, including exon-deleted variants (Delta), have not been determined in the monkey or human frontal cortex. Because the types of ERalpha mRNA expressed in brain could define neuronal responses to estrogens, we examined the transcript pool of ERalpha mRNAs expressed in normal adult and developing human and macaque frontal cortex. We reverse transcribed total RNA from the postmortem frontal cortex of 29 normal adult humans, 12 rhesus macaques, and 19 people ranging from infants to adults and employed two rounds of nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to generate ERalpha products spanning the coding domain. In a third nested PCR, we used primers specific for novel sequences of exon-exon junctions created when whole exons are missing. By sequencing PCR products, we detected 60 instances of 12 distinct DeltaERalpha mRNAs in adult humans and 94 instances of 13 distinct DeltaERalpha mRNAs in monkeys in differing patterns from one individual to another. In adult humans, 83% of individuals expressed at least 1 DeltaERalpha mRNA variant, and 100% of the monkeys expressed at least 1 DeltaERalpha mRNA variant. The single Delta2, Delta5, and Delta7 variants were frequently expressed in both human and monkey frontal cortex, Delta3 variants were rare in both species, and Delta6 variants were more frequently expressed in monkeys. In both species, we detected double, triple and quadruple Deltas, but these were less common than single Deltas. The pattern of human variant expression did not appear to change dramatically as a function of age. These findings imply the potential to produce different ERalpha proteins in frontal cortex, possibly with altered structure and function which may have physiological relevance for gene transcription by virtue of altered functional interactions with each other, other steroid hormone receptors, and genomic DNA.
We aimed to determine whether rat olivocochlear neurons survive axotomy inflicted through cochlear ablation, or if they degenerate. To estimate their intrinsic potential for axonal regeneration, we investigated the expression of the transcription factor c-Jun and the growth-associated protein-43 (GAP43). Axonal tracing studies based on application of Fast Blue into the cochlea and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunostaining revealed that many, but not all, lateral olivocochlear neurons in the ipsilateral lateral superior olive degenerated upon cochleotomy. A decrease of their number was noticed 2 weeks after the lesion, and 2 months postoperative the population was reduced to approximately one quarter (27-29%) of its original size. No further reduction took place at longer survival times up to 1 year. Most or all shell neurons and medial olivocochlear neurons survived axotomy. Following cochleotomy, 56-60% of the lateral olivocochlear neurons in the ipsilateral lateral superior olive were found to co-express c-Jun and GAP43. Only a small number of shell and medial olivocochlear neurons up-regulated c-Jun expression, and only a small number of shell neurons expressed GAP43. Up-regulation of c-Jun and GAP43 in lateral olivocochlear neurons upon axotomy suggests that they have an intrinsic potential to regenerate after axotomy, but cell counts based on the markers Fast Blue and calcitonin gene-related peptide indicate that this potential cannot be exploited and degeneration is induced instead. The survival of one quarter of the axotomized lateral olivocochlear neurons and of all, or almost all, shell and medial olivocochlear neurons appeared to depend on connections of these cells to other regions than the cochlea by means of axon collaterals, which remained intact after cochleotomy.
Recent reports show that striatal dopamine D1-type receptors from one side of the normal rat brain can control brain activity (as measured by c-fos induction) on both sides of the brain. However, this phenomenon has not yet been studied in the presence of sensitized dopamine D1-type receptors. Here we address this issue by investigating the extent to which dopamine D1-type receptors control brain activation in rats with unilaterally sensitized dopamine D1-type receptors. Gene induction assays were used to identify activated regions from midbrain to forebrain in unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned (hemiparkinsonian) rats challenged with the full dopamine D1-type agonist SKF82958 (3 mg/kg, 0.5 and 2 h). The genes used are c-fos, the proven neuronal activity marker, and Regulator of G protein Signaling 2, a gene we propose as a marker of signaling homeostasis. SKF82958-mediated induction of both genes is greatly enhanced in hemiparkinsonian rats compared with shams, in both the lesioned and the intact hemisphere. For example, in the denervated caudate-putamen at 2 h postinjection, this enhancement is more than 80-fold for c-fos and up to 20-fold for Regulator of G protein Signaling 2; for the intact side this is 35-fold for c-fos and 27-fold for Regulator of G protein Signaling 2. Cortical induction of c-fos and Regulator of G protein Signaling 2 was generalized to most neocortical regions and was essentially equivalent in both the denervated and intact hemispheres. Interestingly, hippocampal structures also showed strong bilateral induction of both genes. This overall pattern of brain activation can be accounted for by the basal-ganglia thalamocortical and hippocampal circuits which both contain hemisphere-crossing connections and which can be initially activated in the lesioned hemisphere. Some regions, such as the intact striatum or the CA1 region, showed relatively low c-fos induction and relatively high Regulator of G protein Signaling 2 induction, possibly indicating that these regions are engaged in unusually strong signaling regulation activities. Our results show that, besides basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits, dopamine D1-type-mediated brain activation in hemiparkinsonian rats also involves hippocampal circuits.
We investigated the effect of type 1 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) regulatory protein Tat on N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes by voltage-clamp recording and its role in NMDA-mediated neurotoxicity using cultured rat hippocampal neurons. Tat (0.01-1muM) potentiated NMDA-induced currents of recombinant NMDA receptors. However, in the presence of Zn(2+), the potentiating effect of Tat was much more pronounced, indicating an additional Zn(2+)-related effect on NMDA receptors. Consistently, Tat potentiated currents of the particularly Zn(2+)-sensitive NR1/NR2A NMDA receptor with a higher efficacy, whereas currents from a Zn(2+)-insensitive mutant were only marginally augmented. In addition, chemical-modified Tat, deficient for metal binding, did not reverse Zn(2+)-mediated inhibition of NMDA responses, demonstrating that Tat disinhibits NMDA receptors from Zn(2+)-mediated antagonism by complexing the cation. We therefore investigated the interplay of Tat and Zn(2+) in NMDA-mediated neurotoxicity using cultures of rat hippocampal neurons. Zn(2+) exhibited a prominent rescuing effect when added together with the excitotoxicant NMDA, which could be reverted by the Zn(2+)-chelator tricine. Similar to tricine, Tat enhanced NMDA-mediated neurotoxicity in the presence of neuroprotective Zn(2+) concentrations. Double-staining with antibodies against Tat and the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor revealed partial colocalization of the immunoreactivities in membrane patches of hippocampal neurons, supporting the idea of a direct interplay between Tat and glutamatergic transmission. We therefore propose that release of Zn(2+)-mediated inhibition of NMDA receptors by HIV-1 Tat contributes to the neurotoxic effect of glutamate and may participate in the pathogenesis of AIDS-associated dementia.
Persistent neuron production in the adult CNS (adult neurogenesis) has been implicated in various brain functions such as learning/memory and mood control. Despite the widespread occurrence of neural stem/progenitor cells, active adult neurogenesis has been established only in two restricted regions. We explored in this study a previously overlooked neurogenic region in the adult rat brain and detected the evidence of neuron production within the subcortical white matter. Dividing Pax6- and Olig2-positive neural progenitor cells continually gave rise to doublecortin-positive new neurons in this region. However, the vast majority of newborn neurons were lost within a week of their birth. Accumulated apoptotic cells indicated the ongoing cell death in this area. In addition to providing the evidence of newborn cell migration to the hippocampus, these results suggest that cell genesis, death, and migration persist in a restricted subregion of the adult white matter.
Axons elongate and perform steering reactions with their growth cones constantly undergoing local collapse and stabilization. Our previous studies have shown that a type-1 phosphorylated form of microtubule-associated protein 1B, recognized by monoclonal antibody 1E11 (mab1E11), is present in stable regions and absent from unstable regions of turning growth cones of retinal ganglion cells. In contrast, the total population of microtubule-associated protein 1B is present in the entire growth cone. Here we demonstrate that inhibition of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) results in loss of mab1E11 binding whereas inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase 3 has no such effect, revealing that mab1E11 recognizes a Cdk5 phosphorylation site on type-1 phosphorylated form of microtubule-associated protein 1B. We moreover show that kinase Cdk5 as well as its activator P35 is present in retinal ganglion cells in the early developing chick embryo retina and enriched in their extending axons. Cdk5 and P35 are concentrated in the youngest, distal axon region and the growth cone as also seen for Cdk5-phosphorylated type-1 phosphorylated form of microtubule-associated protein 1B. Inhibition of Cdk5 by antibodies or inhibitor Roscovitine results in growth cone collapse and axon retraction and prevents substantial axon outgrowth. In contrast, glycogen synthase kinase 3 inhibition causes only a transient axon retraction which is soon recovered and allows for axon formation. In growth cones induced to turn at substrate borders, where stable and instable parts of the growth cone are clearly defined, Cdk5 is present in the entire growth cone. P35, in contrast, is restricted to the stable parts of the growth cone, which do not collapse but instead transform into new distal axon. The local presence of Cdk5-phosphorylated type-1 phosphorylated form of microtubule-associated protein 1B in stabilized growth cone areas can be therefore attributed to the local activation of Cdk5 by P35 in these regions. Together our data demonstrate a crucial role of Cdk5 and its activator P35 in elongation and maintenance of axons as well as for stability and steering of their growth cones.
P2X(4) receptor (P2X(4)R) is an ion channel gated by ATP. Here we report the presence and distribution of P2X(4)R by immunohistochemical analysis of the rat CNS. In normal control rats, P2X(4)R was expressed by perivascular cells, but not found on parenchymal monocytic cells. We further investigated P2X(4)R expression in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. P2X(4)R(+) cells were mainly identified as infiltrative macrophages in CNS lesions. In the diseased brain, P2X(4)R(+) leukocytic cells were not only found in the direct vicinity of the inflammatory infiltrate, but widespread distribution was seen in the parenchyma. In experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis spinal cord, the number of P2X(4)R(+) cells was much higher than in brain. P2X(4)R(+) macrophage accumulation reached the maximal levels around day 14 correlating to the clinical severity of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, and this upregulation lasted until the recovery stage of the disease. This implicates a role of P2X(4)R in the inflammatory process of the CNS. In addition, bromodeoxyuridine immunohistochemistry was employed to demonstrate cell proliferation. Only few bromodeoxyuridine+/P2X(4)R+ monocytes/macrophages were observed in both the diseased brain and spinal cord. In conclusion, this is the first demonstration that P2X(4)R presents in autoimmune-lesioned CNS. Consequently, P2X(4)R might be a valuable marker to dissect the local monocyte heterogeneity in autoimmune disease.
Mitogen activated protein kinases such as phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 and -2 (pERK 1/2) have been recently demonstrated to play an important role in somatic nociception and hyperalgesia. In the present study we examined whether pERK 1/2 is involved in the response of sensory neurons to a noxious visceral stimulation, in particular, of the gastric mucosa. After induction of gastric injury by oral administration of 0.5M HCl pERK 1/2 expression was determined by Western blotting of caudal thoracic dorsal root ganglia and by immunohistochemistry in stomach-innervating dorsal root ganglion neurons which were retrogradely labeled with True Blue. The content of pERK 1/2 remained unchanged in dorsal root ganglia until 2 h post-HCl, however, was found elevated 4 (approximately 80%) and 6 h (approximately 100%) after HCl administration. True Blue-labeled pERK 1/2-immunoreactive neurons were likewise increased 6 h post-HCl (204%) and were mainly of small size (20-40 microm) and negative for neurofilament 200 (approximately 76%). The majority of these cells also expressed the nociceptive transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor 1 (approximately 70%). The gastric mucosa was simultaneously examined for lesion formation showing highest percentage of damage 6 h post-HCl. Application of a N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (MK-801; 100 microg/kg s.c.) significantly reduced HCl-induced pERK 1/2 expression and mucosal lesions 6 h post-HCl. Activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 and -2 signaling cascade indicates that visceral primary afferents may sensitize after gastric noxious stimulation involving N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. The extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 and -2 pathway therefore may not only be of importance for somatic but also for visceral nociception.
The walls of the third ventricle have been proposed to serve as a bidirectional conduit for exchanges between the neural parenchyma and the cerebrospinal fluid. In immunohistochemical studies of mice, we observed that light exposure and circadian phase affected peptide staining surrounding the third ventricle at the level of the suprachiasmatic nuclei. Under high magnification, we observed robust staining for the neurohormone oxytocin and the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin associated with cilia extending into the third ventricle from the surrounding ventricular wall; no similar staining was observed for vasopressin or calbindin. Retinal illumination had opposite effects on levels of parvalbumin and oxytocin in the cilia: light exposure during late subjective night increased oxytocin staining, but decreased parvalbumin staining in the cilia. Preventing cellular transport with colchicine eliminated immunohistochemical staining for oxytocin in the cilia. There was also a significant daily rhythm of oxytocin immunostaining in the third ventricle wall, and in magnocellular neurons in the anterior hypothalamus. The results suggest that environmental lighting and circadian rhythms regulate levels of oxytocin in the cerebrospinal fluid, possibly by regulating movement of oxytocin through the third ventricle wall.
GABAergic projection from thalamic reticular nucleus to thalamic nucleus submedius in the medial thalamus of the rat was studied by using immunohistochemistry for GABA, retrograde labeling with Fluoro-Gold combined with immunohistochemistry for GABA, and anterograde labeling with biotinylated dextranamine. Immunohistochemistry displayed that only GABA immunoreactive terminals were observed in the thalamic nucleus submedius, while GABA immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies were located in the thalamic reticular nucleus and lateral geniculate nucleus. Injection of Fluoro-Gold into the thalamic nucleus submedius resulted in massive retrogradely labeled neuronal cell bodies in the rostroventral portion of the ipsilateral thalamic reticular nucleus and a few in the contralateral thalamic reticular nucleus, and most of these cell bodies showed GABA immunopositive staining. Many biotinylated dextranamine anterogradely labeled fibers and terminals in the thalamic nucleus submedius were observed after injection of biotinylated dextranamine into the thalamic reticular nucleus. The present results provide a morphological evidence for a hypothesis that a disinhibitory effect on output neurons elicited by opioid or 5-hydroxytryptamine inhibiting a GABAergic terminal in the thalamic nucleus submedius may lead to activation of the descending inhibitory system and depression of the nociceptive inputs at the spinal cord level.
The most ubiquitous form of arrhythmia is respiratory sinus arrhythmia in which the heart beat slows during expiration and heart rate increases during inspiration. Whereas respiratory sinus arrhythmia benefits pulmonary gas exchange respiratory dysfunction presents a major challenge to the cardiorespiratory system. Hypoxia evokes a pronounced bradycardia mediated by increases in parasympathetic cardiac activity. It has been hypothesized that the fatal events in sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) are exaggerated cardiorespiratory responses to hypoxia. This study tests whether premotor cardiac vagal neurons receive rhythmic respiratory-related excitatory synaptic inputs during normoxia and hypoxia, and if animals exposed to nicotine in the prenatal period have exaggerated responses to hypoxia. Premotor cardiac vagal neurons in the nucleus ambiguus were identified in rats by the presence of a fluorescent tracer in medullary slices that generate rhythmic inspiratory-related motor discharge. Respiratory activity was recorded from the hypoglossal nerve and excitatory synaptic events in cardiac vagal neurons were isolated using patch clamp techniques. Adult female rats were implanted with osmotic minipumps that delivered nicotine at a level approximately equivalent to those that occur in moderate to heavy smokers. During normal eupneic respiration, as well as during hypoxia, premotor cardiac vagal neurons from control animals did not receive any rhythmic respiratory-related excitatory inputs. However in animals exposed to nicotine throughout the prenatal period respiratory bursts during hypoxia dramatically increased the frequency of excitatory synaptic events in cardiac vagal neurons. In summary, in animals exposed to nicotine throughout the prenatal period, but not in unexposed animals, respiratory bursts that occur during hypoxia dramatically increase the frequency of excitatory synaptic events in cardiac vagal neurons. This study establishes a likely neurochemical mechanism for the heart rate responses to hypoxia and a link between prenatal nicotine exposure and exaggerated bradycardia responses during hypoxia that may contribute to sudden infant death syndrome.
To investigate the role of the primate amygdala in stimulus-reinforcement association learning, the activity of single amygdala neurons was recorded in macaques during two memory tasks. In a visual discrimination task, a population of neurons (17/659) was analyzed which responded differentially to a visual stimulus which always indicated that the primary reinforcer fruit juice could be obtain if the monkey licked, and a different visual stimulus that indicated that the primary reinforcer aversive saline would be obtained if the monkey licked. Most (16/17) of these neurons responded more to the reward-related than the aversive visual stimulus. In a recognition memory task, the majority (12/14 analyzed) of these neurons responded equally well to the trial unique stimuli when they were shown as novel and the monkey had to not lick in order to avoid saline, and when they were shown a second time as familiar and the monkey used the rule that if he licked, fruit juice would be obtained. The responses of these amygdala neurons thus reflect the direct associations of stimuli with reinforcement, but do not reflect the reward value of the stimuli when this must be assessed based on a rule (in the recognition memory task, that a stimulus will be punished the first time it is shown, and rewarded the second). This finding also shows that these amygdala neurons respond to relatively novel stimuli in the same way as they do to stimuli that have become rewarding by stimulus-reinforcement association learning. This provides a neural basis for relatively novel stimuli to be treated as rewarding, and approached.
The urocortin1 (Ucn1) neurons of the mid-brain-localized Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EW) are robustly responsive to ethanol (EtOH) administration, and send projections to the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), which contains corticotropin-releasing factor type 2 receptors (CRF2) that are responsive to Ucn1. In addition, the DRN has been shown to be involved in regulation of body temperature, a function greatly affected by EtOH administration. The goal of the present study was to identify the role that the urocortinergic projections from the EW to the DRN have in mediating EtOH-induced and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced hypothermia. Male C57BL6/J mice were used. Groups of mice underwent cannulation of the DRN, and then received i.p. injections of EtOH (2g/kg) or LPS (600 microg/kg or 400 microg/kg), followed by intra-DRN injections of artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) or anti-sauvagine (aSVG) (55 pmol), a CRF2 antagonist. Separate groups of mice received single intra-DRN injections of Ucn1 (20 pmol), CRF (20 pmol) or aCSF. For all experiments, core temperatures were monitored rectally every 30 min for several hours post-injection. Both EtOH and LPS induced hypothermia, and aSVG significantly attenuated this effect after EtOH; however, there was no significant attenuation of hypothermia after either dose of LPS. Ucn1 injection also caused hypothermia, while CRF injection did not. These data demonstrate that EtOH-induced hypothermia, but not LPS-induced hypothermia, may involve Ucn1 from EW acting at CRF2 receptors in the DRN.
The action of riluzole, a neuroprotective drug, on cloned delayed rectifier K+ channels (Kv1.5 and Kv3.1) was examined using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Riluzole reversibly inhibited Kv1.5 currents in a concentration-dependent manner with an IC50 of 39.69+/-2.37 microM. G-protein inhibitors (pertussis toxin and GDPbetaS) did not prevent this inhibition of riluzole on Kv1.5. No voltage-dependent inhibition by riluzole was found over the voltage range in which channels are fully activated. Riluzole shifted the steady-state inactivation curves of Kv1.5 in a hyperpolarizing direction in a concentration-dependent manner. It accelerated the deactivation kinetics of Kv1.5 in a concentration dependent-manner, but had no effect on the steady-state activation curve. Riluzole exhibited a use-independent inhibition of Kv1.5. The effects of riluzole on Kv3.1, the Shaw-type K+ channel were also examined. Riluzole caused a concentration-dependent inhibition of Kv3.1 currents with an IC50 of 120.98+/-9.74 microM and also shifted the steady-state inactivation curve of Kv3.1 in the hyperpolarizing direction. Thus, riluzole inhibits both Kv1.5 and Kv3.1 currents in a concentration-dependent manner and interacts directly with Kv1.5 by preferentially binding to the inactivated and to the closed states of the channel.
Acute or chronic stress can alter hippocampal structure, cause neuronal damage, and decrease hippocampal levels of the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). The tachykinin substance P and its neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor may play a critical role in neuronal systems that process nociceptive stimuli; their importance in stress-activated systems has recently been demonstrated by the antidepressant-like actions of NK-1 receptor antagonists. However, the functional similarities between neurokinin receptors in the hippocampus and those in sensory systems are poorly understood, as is the significance of hippocampal NK-1 receptor in the context of chronic pain. Therefore, we investigated the effects of immobilization stress or inflammatory stimuli on NK-1 receptor and BDNF gene expression in the rat hippocampus. Rats received an acute or chronic immobilization stress, or an acute (formalin) or chronic (complete Freund's adjuvant) inflammatory stimulus to the right hind paw. Subsequently hippocampal volume and specific gravity were measured and NK-1 receptor and BDNF mRNA levels quantified using ribonuclease protection assays. Results showed that either stress or pain down-regulates expression of both NK-1 receptor and BDNF genes in the hippocampus. Hippocampal volume was increased by either pain or stress; this may be due to edema (decreased specific gravity). Thus, BDNF and NK-1 receptor gene plasticity may reflect sensory activation or responses to neuronal injury. These data may provide useful markers of hippocampal activation during chronic pain, and suggest similarities in the mechanisms underlying chronic pain and depression.
Minocycline, a semisynthetic derivative of tetracycline, displays beneficial activity in neuroprotective in models including, Parkinson disease, spinal cord injury, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Huntington disease and stroke. The mechanisms by which minocycline inhibits apoptosis remain poorly understood. In the present report we have investigated the effects of minocycline on mitochondria, due to their crucial role in apoptotic pathways. In mitochondria isolated suspensions, minocycline failed to block superoxide-induced swelling but was effective in blocking mitochondrial swelling induced by calcium. This latter effect might be mediated through dissipation of mitochondrial transmembrane potential and blockade of mitochondrial calcium uptake. Consistently, minocycline fails to protect SH-SY5Y cell cultures against reactive oxygen species-mediated cell death, including malonate and 6-hydroxydopamine treatments, but it is effective against staurosporine-induced cytotoxicity. The effects of this antibiotic on mitochondrial respiratory chain complex were also analyzed. Minocycline did not modify complex IV activity, and only at the higher concentration tested (100 microM) inhibited complex II/III activity. Other members of the minocycline antibiotic family like tetracycline failed to induce these mitochondrial effects.
Extracellular ATP is well known as a neurotransmitter and neuromodulator in the CNS of adults. However, little is known about the involvement of ATP during the development of mammalian brain. In the present study, we have examined the expression pattern of P2X receptor subtype mRNA and protein during perinatal rat brain development (from embryonic day (E) 10 to postnatal day (P) 16 brain). While P2X3 receptors appeared early at E11, they declined in the stages that follow. P2X2 and P2X7 receptors were expressed from E14 onwards, while P2X4, P2X5 and P2X6 receptors were expressed from P1 onwards. P2X1 receptor expression was not observed in any of the developmental ages examined. We investigated the effect of 100 microM ATP and alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alpha,beta-meATP; selective agonist for P2X1, P2X2/3 and P2X3 receptors) on motor axon outgrowth in collagen-embedded neural tube explant cultures. Both ATP- and alpha,beta-meATP-treated neural tubes showed a significant reduction in neurite outgrowth compared with the control explants. This inhibitory effect could not be reproduced by uridine triphosphate. In conclusion, all P2X receptor subtypes, except for P2X1, were strongly represented in the developing rat brain. ATP was shown to inhibit motor axon outgrowth during early embryonic neurogenesis, most likely via the P2X3 receptor. It is speculated that P2X7 receptors may be involved in programmed cell death during embryogenesis and that P2X4, P2X(5) and P2X6 receptors might be involved in postnatal neurogenesis.
Growing evidence indicates a role for sleep in off-line memory processing, specifically in post-training consolidation. In humans, sleep has been shown to trigger overnight learning on a motor-sequence memory task, while equivalent waking periods produce no such improvement. But while the behavioral characteristics of sleep-dependent motor learning become increasingly well characterized, the underlying neural basis remains unknown. Here we present functional magnetic resonance imaging data demonstrating a change in the representation of a motor memory after a night of sleep. Subjects trained on a motor-skill memory and 12 hours later, after either sleep or wake, were retested during functional magnetic resonance imaging. Following sleep relative to wake, regions of increased activation were expressed in the right primary motor cortex, medial prefrontal lobe, hippocampus and left cerebellum; changes that can support faster motor output and more precise mapping of key-press movements. In contrast, signal decreases were identified in parietal cortices, the left insular cortex, temporal pole and fronto-polar region, reflecting a reduced need for conscious spatial monitoring and a decreased emotional task burden. This evidence of an overnight, systems-level change in the representation of a motor memory holds important implications for acquiring real-life skills and in clinical rehabilitation following brain trauma, such as stroke.
Histaminergic tuberomammillary (TM) neurons of the posterior hypothalamus have been implicated in cognition, alertness and sleep-wakefulness cycles. Spontaneous firing of TM neurons has been associated with histamine release and wakefulness. The expression of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in TM neurons suggests a role for endogenous choline and for nicotinic drugs in the regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) metabolism, normal TM neuronal activity and histamine release. First, we established the link between TM neuronal spontaneous firing frequency and cytosolic free Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)). A strong correlation was observed: an onset of spontaneous firing (3-4Hz) was accompanied by a 20-fold increase in [Ca(2+)](i) from 56+/-18 nM to 1.0+/-0.6 microM. The same range of firing frequencies has been observed in TM neurons in vivo and is associated with wakefulness. Secondly, choline-induced activation of alpha7 nAChRs did not elevate [Ca(2+)](i) directly, i.e. in the absence of high-threshold voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel (HVGCC) activation. Cd(2+) (200 microM) completely blocked all Ca(2+) signals, but inhibited only 37+/-16% of alpha7 nAChR-mediated currents. Thirdly, the responsiveness of [Ca(2+)](i) to choline-mediated excitation was inhibited by hyperpolarization and enhanced by depolarization, sensitizing [Ca(2+)](i) at membrane voltages associated with normal TM neuronal activity. These properties of [Ca(2+)](i) define the ability of TM neurons to translate cholinergic stimuli of identical strengths into different cytosolic Ca(2+) effects, providing the physiological substrate for state-specific modulation of incoming cholinergic information and would be expected to play a very important role in determining activity profiles of TM neurons exposed to elevated concentrations of cholinergic agents, such as choline and nicotine.
The L1 cell adhesion molecule has been implicated in ethanol teratogenesis as well as NMDAR-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission, a process thought to be critical for neural development. Ethanol inhibits LTP at least in part by interacting with NMDA receptors. Ethanol also inhibits L1-mediated cell adhesion in a manner that is prevented by an octapeptide, D-NAPVSIPQ (D-NAP), as well as long chain alcohols such as 1-octanol. Here we analyzed the effects of D-NAP and 1-octanol on ethanol modulation of LTP induced by theta burst stimulation in two subfields of the rat hippocampus, the dentate gyrus and area CA1. When theta burst stimulation was delivered in ethanol (50 mM), LTP was inhibited by about 50%. Surprisingly, when D-NAP (10(-7) M) and ethanol were co-applied or applied sequentially, LTP was completely absent. The effects of D-NAP were persistent, since delivery of a second theta burst stimulation following washout of D-NAP and ethanol elicited minimal plasticity. Application of D-NAP alone had no effect on LTP induction or expression. The synergistic effect of D-NAP on ethanol inhibition of LTP was concentration-dependent since D-NAP (10(-10) M) had an intermediate effect, while D-NAP (10(-13) M) had no effect on ethanol suppression of LTP. These observations were also replicated with a different ethanol antagonist, 1-octanol, in area CA1. To address the mechanisms underlying this long-lasting suppression of LTP, the sensitivity of pharmacologically isolated NMDAR extracellular field potentials to combinations of D-NAP and ethanol was determined. D-NAP (10(-7)M) alone had no effect on NMDA extracellular field potentials; however, the peptide significantly increased the inhibitory action of ethanol on NMDA extracellular field potential. The findings suggest that D-NAP and 1-octanol selectively interact with NMDA receptors in an ethanol-dependent manner, further implicating the L1 cell adhesion molecule in alcohol-related brain disorders.
Previous studies demonstrated that secretin could modulate synaptic transmission in the rat cerebellum. In the present report, we provide evidence for the endogenous release of secretin in the cerebellum and further characterize the actions of secretin in this brain area. First, to show that secretin is released endogenously, blocks of freshly dissected cerebella were challenged with a high concentration of KCl. Incubation with KCl almost doubled the rate of secretin release. This KCl-induced release was sensitive to tetrodotoxin and cadmium suggesting the involvement of voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels. The use of specific channel blockers further revealed that L-type and P/Q-type calcium channels underlie both basal and KCl-evoked secretin release. In support of this, depolarization of Purkinje neurons in the presence of NMDA, group II mGluR and cannabinoid CB1 receptor blockers resulted in increased inhibitory postsynaptic current frequency. Second, we found that the previously reported facilitatory action of secretin on GABAergic inputs to Purkinje neurons is partly dependent on the release of endogenous glutamate. In the presence of CNQX, an AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist, the facilitatory effect of secretin on GABA release was significantly reduced. In support of this idea, application of AMPA, but not kainate receptor agonist, facilitated GABA release from inhibitory terminals, an action that was sensitive to AMPA receptor antagonists. These data indicate that a direct and an indirect pathway mediate the action of secretin in the basket cell-Purkinje neuron synapse. The results provide further and more solid evidence for the role of secretin as a neuropeptide in the mammalian CNS.
Following cerebral ischemia, i.v. infusion of angiotensin II increases cerebral edema and mortality. Angiotensin type 1 receptor blockage should therefore improve acute cerebral ischemia. Left middle cerebral artery occlusion (120 min) followed by reperfusion was performed with the thread method under halothane anesthesia in Sprague-Dawley rats. Olmesartan (angiotensin type 1 receptor blocker; 0.01 or 0.1mumol/kg/h) was infused i.p. for 7 days following middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by reperfusion. Stroke index score, infarct volume, specific gravity, and brain angiotensin II and matrix metalloproteinases were quantified in the ischemic and non-ischemic hemispheres. Olmesartan treatment improved stroke index score, infarct volume, and cerebral edema in our cerebral ischemia model. In particular, stroke index score, infarct volume, and cerebral edema were reduced even with a low dose of olmesartan that did not decrease blood pressure. Paralleling these effects on cerebral ischemia, olmesartan treatment also reduced the reactive upregulation in brain angiotensin II, matrix metalloproteinase-2, matrix metalloproteinase-9, and membrane type 1-matrix metalloproteinase in the ischemic area. Angiotensin type 1 receptor stimulation may be one of the important factors that cause cerebral edema following cerebral ischemia, and that its inhibition may be of therapeutic advantage in cerebral ischemia.
The relationship between epilepsy, modeled here by pentylenetetrazol kindling, and learning deficits, modeled here by long-term potentiation (LTP), was studied. The field excitatory postsynaptic potentials and population spikes (PS) were recorded from strata radiatum and pyramidale, respectively, in urethane-anesthetized rat dorsal hippocampus CA1 area upon stimulation of Schaffer collaterals. To induce LTP, a 100 Hz primed-burst stimulation protocol was used. Experiments were carried out at approximately 30 days after the last pentylenetetrazol dose. The effects of voltage dependent calcium channel blocker verapamil and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801 on LTP expression were examined. Tetanic stimulation elicited both field excitatory postsynaptic potential LTP and PS LTP in control animals, and LTP-induction of the PS in control animals was attenuated by MK-801, but not by verapamil. By contrast, kindled rats showed LTP of the PS only. MK-801 reduced the extent of potentiation of PS amplitude and verapamil inhibited the PS amplitude potentiation, completely. The results suggest that seizure induction modifies mechanisms underlying LTP induction and causes a shift in the form of LTP expression. The pentylenetetrazol-kindling-induced increase in PS LTP is sensitive to verapamil and not to MK-801 and therefore primarily dependent on activation of voltage dependent calcium channels rather N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Kindling may lead to a shift in synaptic plasticity thresholds much like the shift that occurs during aging, and such alterations may contribute to deficits in learning and memory.
Induction of partner preferences in monogamous prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) was used to examine the possibility that blockade of glucocorticoid receptors may be rewarding in females of this species. We first examined the ability of either a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (spironolactone) or a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist (RU-486) to induce partner preferences in females. Peripheral administration of either of the antagonists was capable of inducing partner preferences, although the effective dose for RU-486 was an order of magnitude lower than that for spironolactone. We then examined a potential interaction of glucocorticoid receptor with central dopamine in pair bonding by treating females with i.c.v. dopamine receptor antagonists (haloperidol, SCH23390, or eticlopride) prior to peripheral administration of RU-486. All of the dopamine antagonists were capable of reversing the effects of glucocorticoid receptor blockade on pair bonding. These results establish the ability for acute blockade of glucocorticoid to induce pair bonds in female voles. Further, this effect appears to be mediated via an interaction with central dopamine systems. Together these findings support the possibility that, unlike other model systems, reductions in glucocorticoid receptor activity may enhance reward in female prairie voles.
Young, adult and presumed old specimens of the tropical lizard Tropidurus hispidus, living in an almost steady warm habitat, have been the subjects of a 5-bromodeoxiuridine immunocytochemical study to label proliferating brain cells. All animals showed abundant 5-bromodeoxiuridine-labeled nuclei in the ependyma of their telencephalic lateral ventricles, with these being especially abundant in the medial cortex ependyma. Surprisingly, adult animals displayed higher numbers of labeled nuclei when compared with those of young specimens. In a second experiment, in order to check the evolution of ependymal-labeled nuclei, adult specimens were allowed 4 h or 2, 4, 7, 15 or 30 days of survival after the 5-bromodeoxiuridine pulse. Most labeled nuclei appeared isolated at short survival times (4 h and 2 days after the 5-bromodeoxiuridine pulse) but from day 4 and beyond, labeled nuclei appeared in couples or groups usually located in the ependyma. Labeled nuclei with vertical fusiform appearance in the inner plexiform layer or even recruited in the medial cortex cell layer were assumed to be migratory. These presumed migratory nuclei were unexpectedly few (less than 30%) when compared with other lizards, and they appeared much later; at 15 and 30 days after the pulse. This situation resembles that of mammals where only a small proportion of postnatally generated neurons can develop and survive.
Pulsatile secretion of gonadotropin releasing hormone in mammals is thought to depend on repetitive and prolonged bursts of action potentials in specific neuroendocrine cells. We have previously described episodes of electrical activity in isolated gonadotropin releasing hormone neurons, but the intrinsic mechanisms underlying the generation of spike bursts are unknown. In acutely isolated gonadotropin releasing hormone neurons, which had been genetically targeted to express enhanced green fluorescent protein, current pulses generated spike-mediated depolarizing afterpotentials in 69% of cells. Spike-dependent depolarizing afterpotentials could evoke bursts of action potentials that lasted for tens of seconds. Brief pulses of glutamate (as short as 1 ms), which simulated excitatory postsynaptic potentials, also triggered spike-mediated depolarizing afterpotentials and episodic activity. These data indicate that spike-dependent depolarizing afterpotentials, an endogenous mechanism in gonadotropin releasing hormone neurons, likely contribute to the episodic firing thought to underlie pulsatile secretion of gonadotropin releasing hormone. Furthermore, fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials mediated by glutamate can activate this intrinsic mechanism.
The effects of repeated prenatal stress with different severity (restraint and immobilization) on Fos expression in the maternal and fetal hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) were examined in rats. Acute stress treatment was performed for 30 min on gestational day 21, and repeated stress treatment for 30 min daily for 5 days from gestational days 17-21. In the parvocellular region of the maternal PVN, the stress-induced increases in the number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons were smaller in the repeated stress groups than the acute stress groups, indicating an adaptation of Fos expression to repeated stress. The attenuated Fos expression observed in the maternal PVN following repeated mild stress did not occur in the fetal PVN. In contrast, repeated immobilization stress caused a much smaller increase in Fos expression in the fetal PVN than did acute immobilization stress. The reduced Fos expression in the fetal PVN following repeated severe stress was thought to be due to cell death, since the fetal PVN in the chronic immobilization group revealed a reduction in the total number of cells and an increase in the number of apoptotic cells. In the female but not male fetuses, repeated restraint stress induced a significant increase in the number of apoptotic cells in the PVN. These findings suggest that the fetal PVN shows no adaptation of Fos expression to repeated maternal stress, but great vulnerability to cell death, including apoptosis. In addition, stress-induced apoptosis may more easily occur in the fetal PVN in females than males.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) are involved in sensory cell and neural death in the peripheral nervous system, including damage induced by noise trauma. Antioxidant administration prior to or concomitant with noise exposure can prevent auditory deficits, but the efficacy of a delayed treatment is not known. We have recently found continued reactive oxygen species/reactive nitrogen species formation in the ear for 7-10 days following noise exposure and reasoned that antioxidant intervention during this period should also reduce noise-induced hearing loss. Guinea-pigs were subjected to 4 kHz octave band noise at 120 decibels sound- pressure-level (dB SPL) for 5 hours and received treatment with ROS and RNS scavengers (salicylate and trolox) beginning 3 days prior, 1 hour, 1, 3, or 5 days after noise exposure. Auditory thresholds were assessed by sound-evoked auditory brainstem response at 4, 8, and 16 kHz, before and 10 days after noise exposure. Hair cell damage was analyzed by quantitative histology, and free radical activity was determined immunohistochemically via 4-hydroxynonenal and nitrotyrosine as markers of reactive oxygen species and reactive nitrogen species action. Delivered up to 3 days after noise exposure, salicylate and trolox significantly reduced auditory brainstem response deficits, reduced hair cell damage, and decreased reactive oxygen species and reactive nitrogen species formation. Earlier drug treatment was more effective than later treatment. Our results detail a window of opportunity for rescue from noise trauma, and provide evidence for both morphological and functional protection by delayed pharmacological intervention.
In patients with paroxysmal non-kinesigenic dyskinesias, episodes of dystonia can be provoked by stress and also by methylxanthines (e.g. caffeine), which inhibit adenosine A(1)/A(2A) receptors. In the dt(sz) mutant hamster, a model of this movement disorder, adenosine A(1) receptor antagonists were previously found to worsen dystonia, while adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptor agonists exerted pronounced beneficial effects. Therefore, in the present study, adenosine receptor A(1) and A(2A) binding was determined by autoradiographic analyses in dt(sz) hamsters under basal conditions, i.e. in the absence of a dystonic attack, and in a group of mutant hamsters which exhibited severe stress-induced dystonic attacks prior to kill. In comparison with non-dystonic control hamsters, [(3)H]DPCPX (8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine) binding to adenosine A(1) receptors and [(3)H]CGS 21680 (2p-(2carboxyethylphen-ethylamino-5'-N-ethlycarboxamindoadenosine) binding to adenosine A(2A) receptors were significantly lower throughout the brain of dystonic animals. Under normal resting conditions, mutant hamsters showed significant decreases in adenosine A(1) (-12 to-42%) and in A(2A) (-19 to-34%) receptor binding compared with controls. Stressful stimulation increased adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptor binding in almost all brain regions in both control and dystonic hamsters. The stress-induced increase was more marked in mutant hamsters, leading to a disappearance of differences in most regions compared with stimulated controls, except the striatum. In view of previous findings of striking beneficial effects of adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptor agonists and of striatal dysfunctions in the dt(sz) mutant, the reduced adenosine receptor binding may be an important factor in the pathogenesis of paroxysmal dystonia.
The neuregulin (Nrg) family of growth/differentiation factors is encoded by at least four genes in the mammalian genome: nrg-1, nrg-2, nrg-3 and nrg-4. Nrg-1 and Nrg-2 share the highest homology within the family, and the primary RNA transcripts from their encoding genes are subjected to extensive alternative splicing. Although little is known about the biological function of Nrg-2-4, their structural similarity with Nrg-1 suggests that they could account for some of the activities presently attributed to Nrg-1. Thus, at the neuromuscular junction Nrg-1 has been a favored candidate for the signal that activates selective acetylcholine receptor (AChR) transcription in synaptic myonuclei. However, we have recently shown that like Nrg-1, Nrg-2 can also activate AChR transcription in cultured myotubes and accumulates at the synaptic site. Synapse-specific and Nrg-1-induced AChR transcription require an enhancer sequence, the N-box, which is also mutated in some patients with congenital myasthenia gravis. Here, we show that Nrg-2-induced AChR transcription requires an N-box motif and is regulated by alternative splicing. We also show that unique Nrg-2 isoforms are differentially distributed between spinal cord and skeletal muscle, the tissues that harbor the cellular components of the neuromuscular synapse.
Restricted feeding-induced free-running oscillation of clock genes in the liver was studied in homozygous Clock-mutant (Clock/Clock) mice. Similar to wild-type mice, Clock/Clock mice showed robust food-anticipatory behavioral activity in accordance with a restricted feeding schedule. Also, the peak of all clock gene mRNAs tested was phase-advanced in the liver of Clock/Clock mice as well as wild-type mice, although the amplitude of clock gene expression was low in Clock/Clock mice. The food-anticipatory behavioral rhythm in Clock/Clock mice maintained a period similar to wild-type mice during 2-day fasting after the cessation of restricted feeding. However, during the fasting days after temporal feeding cues were removed, the oscillation of clock genes in the liver and heart, excluding the suprachiasmatic nuclei, appeared to result in arrhythmicity in Clock/Clock mice. Thus, although the CLOCK-based molecular mechanism is not required for the expression of food-anticipatory activity, intact CLOCK protein might be involved in sustaining several cycles of peripheral circadian oscillations after restricted feeding-induced resetting.
Central oxytocin plays an important role in regulating emotionality. The amygdala expresses gonadal steroid-sensitive oxytocin binding sites in both the central and medial sub-nuclei, although the densities markedly differ between these nuclei. These studies examined the in vitro electrophysiological effects of oxytocin in the two amygdaloid nuclei and compared responses in female rats in different reproductive states (virgin, pregnant and lactating). Oxytocin (10(-9)-10(-6)M) caused a concentration-dependent increase in the firing rate of 20-36% of the neurones in both nuclei. Although autoradiographic studies using the oxytocin receptor antagonist [(125)I]d(CH(2))(5)[Tyr(Me)(2),Thr(4),Orn(8),Tyr-NH(2)(9)]-vasotocin showed a higher density of binding in the central nucleus of the amygdala than medial nucleus of the amygdala, neurones in the central nucleus of the amygdala had a much lower sensitivity to oxytocin: equivalent responses obtained with 10(-6)M in the central nucleus of the amygdala and 10(-8)M in the medial nucleus of the amygdala, and neurones in the central nucleus of the amygdala were insensitive to concentrations below 10(-6)M. Furthermore, repeated applications of oxytocin induced homologous desensitization in the central nucleus of the amygdala, but not medial nucleus of the amygdala-a single application of oxytocin producing long duration suppression of responses. This indicates that oxytocin has contrasting modes of action in the amygdala. Studies made across the reproductive cycle showed that lactating animals exhibited a larger proportion of oxytocin-responsive neurones in the medial nucleus of the amygdala and a smaller proportion in the central nucleus of the amygdala, compared with virgin or pregnant animals, indicating a peripartum shift in relative activation within the amygdala. However, changes in responses were not accompanied by changes in the density of oxytocin binding sites. These data show that oxytocin has a markedly different efficacy on neuronal activation in the central and medial sub-nuclei of the amygdala. The relative shift in excitatory responses between these two nuclei may underlie some of the neuroendocrine, behavioral and anxiolytic effects which have been ascribed to oxytocin in the periparturient rat.
To explore the pharmacological mechanisms of topiramate (TPM), we determined the effects of TPM on monoamine (dopamine and serotonin) exocytosis associated with N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors and Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+)-releasing systems, including inositol-triphosphate receptor and ryanodine receptor in freely moving rat pre-frontal cortex using in vivo microdialysis. During resting stage, Ca(2+) output from endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) store via inositol-triphosphate receptor regulates syntaxin-associated monoamine exocytosis mechanism, whereas during neuronal hyperexcitable stage, Ca(2+) output via ryanodine receptor regulates synaptobrevin-associated monoamine exocytosis mechanism. Basal monoamine releases were increased and decreased by therapeutically relevant and supratherapeutic concentration of TPM, respectively. The therapeutic-relevant concentration of TPM increased Ca(2+)-evoked release concentration-dependently; however, its stimulatory effect was attenuated in the supratherapeutic range. The K(+)-evoked releases were reduced by TPM concentration-dependently (from therapeutic to supratherapeutic ranges). The therapeutic-relevant concentration of TPM-induced elevation of basal release was reduced by cleavage with syntaxin and inhibition of inositol-triphosphate receptor predominantly, by cleavage with SNAP-25 and synaptobrevin weakly, but not by ryanodine receptor inhibitor. The therapeutic-relevant concentration of TPM-induced elevation of Ca(2+)-evoked release was reduced by cleavage with syntaxin and inositol-triphosphate receptor inhibitor selectively. The therapeutic-relevant concentration of TPM-induced reduction of K(+)-evoked monoamine release was abolished by cleavage with synaptobrevin, but was not affected by cleavage with SNAP-25 or synaptobrevin. The stimulatory effect of ryanodine receptor agonist on K(+)-evoked monoamine release was reduced by TPM, whereas that of inositol-triphosphate receptor agonist was not affected by TPM. Therefore, these results indicate that the combination of the effects of TPM on exocytosis mechanisms associated with SNARE and Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+)-releasing systems, enhancement of inositol-triphosphate receptor/syntaxin and inhibition of ryanodine receptor/synaptobrevin in pre-frontal cortex, may be involved in clinical actions of TPM.
The subpallium of the fire-bellied toad Bombina orientalis was studied by means of enzyme-histological detection of NADPH-diaphorase and immunohistological demonstration of aspartate, GABA, calretinin, choline-acetyl transferase, Leu-and Met-enkephalin, neuropeptide Y, 5-hydroxy-tryptamine (serotonin), somatostatin, substance P and tyrosine-hydroxylase. As in other vertebrates, the striato-pallidum is characterized by GABA-, substance P- and enkephalin-immunoreactivity. Neurons and fibers differing in immunoreactivity are arranged in layers. Choline-acetyl transferase-immunoreactive neurons were found in a position corresponding to the mammalian cholinergic cell-group (Ch4-group), which therefore may be homologous to the nucleus basalis of Meynert. Within the amygdaloid complex, the cortical and lateral (vomeronasal) nuclei are similar in calretinin-, GABA-, NADPH-diaphorase-, enkephalin, substance P- and neuropeptide Y-(immuno)histology. The medial and central amygdaloid nuclei reveal a dense peptidergic innervation, and the medial amygdala additionally exhibits serotonergic fibers and cell bodies staining for neuropeptides and tyrosine-hydroxylase. Differences between Bombina and other anuran species exist, such as the absence of cholinergic neurons in the striatum. Our findings corroborate the view based on recent studies on the hodology and cytoarchitecture of the anuran telencephalon that the anuran ventral telencephalon contains most of the structures found in the mammalian brain. This concerns a septal region, a dorsal and ventral striato-pallidum including a nucleus accumbens and an amygdaloid complex consisting of a central, cortical and vomeronasal amygdala. The only major difference appears to concern the lack of a basolateral amygdala.
The characteristics of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonist-induced epileptiform bursting seen in immature rat piriform cortex slices in vitro were further investigated using intracellular recording, with particular focus on its postnatal age-dependence (P+14-P+30), pharmacology, site(s) of origin and the likely contribution of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonist-induced post-stimulus slow afterdepolarization and gap junction functionality toward its generation. The muscarinic agonist, oxotremorine-M (10 microM), induced rhythmic bursting only in immature piriform cortex slices; however, paroxysmal depolarizing shift amplitude, burst duration and burst incidence were inversely related to postnatal age. No significant age-dependent changes in neuronal membrane properties or postsynaptic muscarinic responsiveness accounted for this decline. Burst incidence was higher when recorded in anterior and posterior regions of the immature piriform cortex. In adult and immature neurones, oxotremorine-M effects were abolished by M1-, but not M2-muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-selective antagonists. Rostrocaudal lesions, between piriform cortex layers I and II, or layer III and endopiriform nucleus in adult or immature slices did not influence oxotremorine-M effects; however, the slow afterdepolarization in adult (but not immature) lesioned slices was abolished. Gap junction blockers (carbenoxolone or octanol) disrupted muscarinic bursting and diminished the slow afterdepolarization in immature slices, suggesting that gap junction connectivity was important for bursting. Our data show that neural networks within layers II-III function as primary oscillatory circuits for burst initiation in immature rat piriform cortex during persistent muscarinic receptor activation. Furthermore, we propose that muscarinic slow afterdepolarization induction and gap junction communication could contribute towards the increased epileptiform susceptibility of this brain area.
Glutamate is the main excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain where, due to the activity of specific vesicular glutamate transporters, it accumulates in synaptic vesicles. The vesicular glutamate transporter 1 is found in the majority of axon terminals that form asymmetrical (excitatory) synapses in the rat neocortex. However, since there is no information available regarding the distribution of vesicular glutamate transporter 1 in the human neocortex, we have used correlative light and electron microscopy to define its expression in this tissue. We found that the distribution of vesicular glutamate transporter 1-immunoreactivity is virtually identical to that found in the rat neocortex, both at the light and electron microscope levels. Therefore, we assessed whether vesicular glutamate transporter 1 immunostaining might be a useful tool to study the pathological alterations of glutamatergic transmission in the epileptic cerebral cortex. We analyzed the distribution of vesicular glutamate transporter 1 in the peritumoral neocortex of patients with epilepsy secondary to low-grade tumors. In these regions, we found alterations in the pattern of vesicular glutamate transporter 1-immunoreactivity that perfectly matched the neuronal loss and gliosis, as well as the decrease in the number of asymmetrical synapses identified by electron microscopy in this tissue. Thus, vesicular glutamate transporter 1 immunostaining appears to be a reliable and simple tool to study glutamatergic synapses in the normal and epileptic human cerebral cortex.
Somatostatin, widely distributed in human cortical brain regions, acts through specific high affinity somatostatin receptors (SSTR1-5) to exert profound effects on motor, sensory, behavioral, cognitive and autonomic functions. Somatostatin levels are consistently decreased in the cortex of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain and in cerebrospinal fluid, and have become reproducible markers of this disease. In the present study, the distributional pattern of SSTR1-5 antigens in the frontal cortex of AD and age-matched control brains was studied using antipeptide polyclonal rabbit antibodies directed against the five human somatostatin receptor subtypes. All five SSTRs were differentially expressed as membrane and cytoplasmic proteins in cortical neurons with significant variations in control vs. AD brain. In AD cortical brain region, somatostatin and neuropeptide-Y-positive neurons decreased (&gt;70%), and glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes significantly increased (&gt;130%) in comparison to control brain. SSTR2 and 4 were the predominant subtypes followed by SSTR1, 3 and 5. AD cortex showed a marked reduction in neuronal expression of SSTR4 and 5 and a modest decrease in SSTR2-like immunoreactivity without any changes in SSTR1 immunoreactive neurons. In contrast, SSTR3 was the only receptor subtype that increased in AD cortex. In AD cortex, SSTR1-, 3- and 4-like immunoreactivities were strongly expressed in glial cells but not SSTR2 and 5. These findings suggest the differential loss of immunoreactivity of SSTR2, 4 and 5 but not SSTR1, and increased SSTR3 in frontal cortex of AD brain as well as subtype-selective glial expression in AD brain. In summary, subtype-selective changes in the expression of SSTRs at protein levels in AD cortical regions suggest that somatostatin and SSTR-containing neurons are pathologically involved in AD and could possibly be used as markers of this disease.
The local circuitry of the mammalian limbic cortices, including the hippocampus, is capable of generating spontaneous rhythmic activities of 0.5-4 Hz when isolated in vitro. These rhythmic activities are mediated by synchronous inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in pyramidal neurons as the result of repeated discharges of inhibitory interneurons. As such, they are thought to represent an intrinsic inhibitory rhythm. It is unknown at present whether such a rhythm occurs in the immature rodent hippocampus and, if so, the postnatal time window in which it develops. We explored these issues using our recently developed whole mouse hippocampal isolate preparation in vitro. We found that spontaneous rhythmic field potentials started to emerge in mouse hippocampal isolates around postnatal day 10, stabilized after postnatal day 15 and persisted into adulthood. In postnatal days 11-14 mouse hippocampi, the properties of these rhythmic potentials were in keeping with a CA3-driven, IPSP-based intrinsic network activity. The lack of spontaneous field rhythm in neonatal (postnatal days 2-7) hippocampi cannot be attributed to the excitatory activities mediated by gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA-A) receptors, as chloride-dependent hyperpolarizing inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were detectable in neonatal pyramidal neurons at voltages near resting potentials and pharmacological antagonisms of GABA-A receptors produced robust epileptiform discharges in neonatal hippocampi. High frequency afferent stimulation or applications of 4-aminopyridine at low micromolar concentrations failed to induce persistent field rhythm in neonatal hippocampi, suggesting that an overall weak glutamatergic drive is not the sole causing factor. We suggest that the inhibitory postsynaptic potential-based spontaneous rhythmic field potentials develop in a discrete time window during the second postnatal week in the mouse hippocampus due to a fine-tuning in the structure and function of CA3 recurrent circuitry and associated GABAergic inhibitory interneurons.
Previous studies have demonstrated that synaptic plasticity, which includes long-term potentiation (LTP) and depotentiation (DP) in hippocampus, is important for learning and memory. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of taurine via drinking water on the lead-induced impairments of LTP and DP in rat dentate gyrus (DG) in vivo. The experiments were carried out in four groups of rats (control, lead-exposed, control and lead-exposed with a taurine-supplement diet, respectively). The input-output (I/O) function, excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) and population spike (PS) amplitude were measured in the DG area of adult rats (60-90 days) in response to stimulation applied to the lateral perforant path. The results show that: 1. chronic lead exposure impaired LTP/DP measured on both EPSP slope and PS amplitude in DG area of the hippocampus; 2. in control rats, taurine had no effect on LTP/DP; 3. the amplitudes of LTP/DP of lead-exposed group were significantly increased by applying taurine. These results suggest that dietary taurine supplement could protect rats from the lead-induced impairments of synaptic plasticity and might be a preventive medicine to cure the cognitive deficits induced by lead.
This study was undertaken to analyze the involvement of periaqueductal gray (PAG) cannabinoid or group I metabotropic glutamate receptors in the formalin-induced changes on the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) ON- and OFF-cells activities. S.c. injection of formalin into the hind paw produced a transient decrease (4-6 min) followed by a longer increase (25-35 min) in tail flick latencies. Formalin also increased basal activity in RVM ON-cells (42+/-7%) and decreased it in OFF-cells (35+/-4%). Intra-PAG microinjection of (R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl) pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenylmethanone mesylate (WIN 55,212-2) (2 nmol/rat), a cannabinoid receptor agonist, prevented the formalin-induced changes in RVM cell activities. Higher dosages of WIN 55,212-2 (4-8 nmol/rat) increased the tail flick latencies, delayed the tail flick-related onset to ON-cell burst, and decreased the duration of OFF-cell pause. Furthermore, WIN 55,212-2 at a dosage of 8 nmol/rat decreased RVM ON-cell (57+/-7%) and increased OFF-cell ongoing activities (26+/-4%). These effects were prevented by N-piperidino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-3-pyrazolecarboxamide SR141716A, (1 pmol/rat), a CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist, or by 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP 20 nmol/rat), a selective mGlu5 glutamate receptor antagonist. T7-(hydroxyimino) cyclopropa[b]chromen-1alpha-carboxylate ethyl ester (CPCOOE/50 nmol/rat) and (S)-(+)-alpha-amino-4-carboxy-2-methylbenzeneacetic acid (LY367385, 20 nmol/rat), selective mGlu1 glutamate receptor antagonists, were ineffective in preventing the WIN-induced effects. This study suggests that s.c. injection of formalin modifies RVM neuronal activities and this effect is prevented by PAG cannabinoid receptor stimulation. Moreover, the physiological stimulation of PAG mGlu5, but not mGlu1 glutamate receptors, seems to be required for the cannabinoid-mediated effect.
In the present study we investigated the effect of acute fluoxetine administration on the expression of c-Fos in the rat brain under two different metabolic conditions: fed and fasting states. Wistar male rats, weighing 220+/-30g, received i.p. injections of saline solution or fluoxetine (10mg/kg), and were killed 2 h later. The brains were removed after transcardiac perfusion with phosphate-buffered saline followed by paraformaldehyde, and were then processed for immunohistochemistry. Fos-like immunoreactivity was quantified by a computerized system. Fasted animals faced an 18-h suppression of food intake, while fed groups were submitted to an initial 14-h period of fast followed by a 4-h period in which food was freely available. Both in fasting and fed states, fluoxetine-treated animals presented a significant increase in c-Fos expression in hypothalamic areas, limbic structures, circumventricular areas, and in mesencephalic and rhomboencephalic regions, as compared with saline-treated controls. The quantitative comparison of data obtained from fasted and fed animals showed that fasted rats treated with fluoxetine presented a higher c-Fos expression in the ventromedial hypothalamus and the paraventricular nuclei compared with the fed group, while in fluoxetine-treated fed rats c-Fos expression was higher in the arcuate nuclei, medial amygdala, locus coeruleus and dorsal raphe nuclei, as compared with fasted, fluoxetine-treated animals. These data indicate that the metabolic condition of the animals significantly modifies fluoxetine-induced brain c-Fos expression, suggesting that visceral and behavioral fluoxetine effects may be influenced by the metabolic state of the individual.
The spinothalamic tract, and especially its fibers originating in lamina I, is the best known pathway for transmission of nociceptive information. On the other hand, different studies have suggested that more lamina I cells project to the parabrachial nuclei (PBN) and periaqueductal gray (PAG) than to the thalamus. The exact ratio of the number of lamina I projections to PBN, PAG and thalamus is not known, because comprehensive studies examining these three projections from all spinal segments, using the same tracers and counting methods, do not exist. In the present study, the differences in number and distribution of retrogradely labeled lamina I cells in each segment of the cat spinal cord (C1-Coc2) were determined after large wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) injections in either PBN, PAG or thalamus. We estimate that approximately 6000 lamina I cells project to PBN, 3000 to PAG and less than 1500 to the thalamus. Of the lamina I cells projecting to thalamus or PAG more than 80%, and of the lamina I-PBN cells approximately 60%, were located on the contralateral side. In all cases, most labeled lamina I cells were found in the upper two cervical segments and in the cervical and lumbar enlargements.
Death occurs in the homozygous mutant mouse weaver among several classes of neuron in cerebellum and ventral midbrain, because these neurons carry a mutation in the G protein-gated inwardly rectifying potassium channel, Girk2. GIRK2 is expressed in all neuronal types killed by wv in cerebellum and midbrain as well as in neurons elsewhere that suffer lesser consequences. GIRK2(wv) affects neurons postnatally, after proliferation, at the time of final differentiation. To assess the impact of GIRK2(wv) on neuronal development and viability, we introduced cDNA encoding wild-type and mutant channels into a variant of a CNS derived catecholamine cell line (Cath.a) known as Cath.a-differentiated. When cultured in serum-free medium, Cath.a-differentiated cells cease proliferation and undergo morphological differentiation, growing long neurites. Cath.a-differentiated cells do not express endogenous Girk channels. Transfection of GIRK2(wv) resulted in the death of Cath.a-differentiated cells, in a cDNA-concentration dependent manner. The highest concentration of Girk2(wv) cDNA caused loss of about half the cells, the next highest concentration one-third, and the least had no effect on viability. However, even the lowest concentration resulted in disruption of neurite outgrowth and reduced the protein products of co-transfected genes. High concentrations of MK801, which prevent Na(+) influx through the mutant channel, prevented death induced by GIRK2(wv). Cell death and disruption of neurite outgrowth were counteracted in GIRK2(wv)-expressing cells by the presence of an unrelated inwardly rectifying potassium channel, Kir2.3. These results are consistent with wv being a gain-of-function mutation, causing disruption of cellular homeostasis by mechanisms such as increased Na(+) influx and chronic depolarization which may in turn result in an excessive metabolic burden on the cell.
Administered cannabinoids have been shown to ameliorate signs of CNS inflammatory disease in a number of animal models, including allergic encephalomyelitis. More recently, neuroprotective actions have been attributed to activation of the cannabinoid 1 receptor in a number of in vitro and in vivo models. One of these, chronic relapsing experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, is considered a robust analog of multiple sclerosis. In this study, spinal cord tissue from cannabinoid receptor 1 knockout mice was analyzed for neurofilament H and myelin basic protein content, as markers of neurons/axons and myelin respectively, during the course of chronic relapsing experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. Dephosphorylation of a neurofilament H epitope, immunoreactive to the SMI32 antibody, was assessed as a marker of axonal damage and levels of the endpoint cell death mediator caspase 3 were evaluated. It was found that both neurofilament and myelin basic protein levels decrease over the course of disease, indicating concomitant neuronal/axonal loss and demyelination. Loss of each marker was more severe in cannabinoid receptor 1 knockout animals. Increased SMI32 reactivity was observed as disease progressed. SMI32 reactivity was significantly increased in knockout animals over wildtype counterparts, an indication of greater axonal dephosphorylation and injury. Active caspase 3 levels were increased in all animals during disease, with knockout animals displaying highest levels, even in knockout animals prior to disease induction. These results indicate that lack of the cannabinoid receptor 1 is associated with increased caspase activation and greater loss and/or compromise of myelin and axonal/neuronal proteins. The increase of caspase 3 in knockout mice prior to disease induction indicates a latent physiological effect of the missing receptor. The data presented further strengthen the hypothesis of neuroprotection elicited via cannabinoid receptor 1 signaling.
Peripheral nerves innervating muscles have sensory fibers that relay information into the CNS information about proprioception, pain, and the metabolic state of the muscle. The present study shows the primary afferent projections into the spinal cord of the nerves innervating the gastrocnemius muscle of the rat using the transganglionic transport of a cocktail of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) conjugated to cholera toxin and wheat germ agglutinin; these markers have been shown to label large and small fibers, respectively. A dense projection into lamina I of the lumbar dorsal horn and a more moderate projection into lamina V were seen. Moreover, dense reaction product was found in the most medial aspect of lamina II, especially lamina II inner part, and less in lamina III and IV of levels L3-L5. Lamina VI had dense reaction product from the rostral sacral levels of the spinal cord that continued into Clarke's column at rostral lumbar levels. The nucleus gracilis also was labeled. Other nerves emerging from the popliteal fossa, including the tibial, peroneal, and sural nerves, also were injected with the HRP cocktail and their projections compared with those from the gastrocnemius muscle. Projections from the gastrocnemius muscle only partially overlapped with those from the tibial nerve, from which the nerves to the gastrocnemius muscle branch. However, the topology of projections from these nerves to laminae II-IV of the dorsal horn differed from that of the nerves of the gastrocnemius muscle, suggesting there was little spread to other nerves in the popliteal fossa. It was also noted that large labeled processes, presumably dendrites of retrogradely labeled motoneurons, entered the dorsal horn. These data provide information on the central projections of both the large and small fibers innervating the gastrocnemius muscle, and may aid in determining the circuitry utilized in the exercise pressor reflex as well as muscle pain.
Epilepsy may result from altered transmission of the principal inhibitory transmitter GABA in the brain. Using in situ hybridization in two animal models of epileptogenesis, we investigated changes in the expression of nine major GABA(A) receptor subunits (alpha1, alpha2, alpha4, alpha5, beta1-beta3, gamma2 and delta) and of the GABA(B) receptor species GABA(B)R1a, GABA(B)R1b and GABA(B)R2 in 1) hippocampal kindling and 2) epilepsy following electrically-induced status epilepticus (SE). Hippocampal kindling triggers a decrease in seizure threshold without producing spontaneous seizures and hippocampal damage, whereas the SE model is characterized by spontaneous seizures and hippocampal damage. Changes in the expression of GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor mRNAs were observed in both models, and compared with those seen in other models and in human temporal lobe epilepsy. The most prominent changes were a relatively fast (24 h after kindling and electrically-induced SE) and lasting (7 and 30 days after termination of kindling and SE, respectively) reduction of GABA(A) receptor subunit delta mRNA levels (by 43-78%) in dentate granule cells, accompanied by increases in mRNA levels of all three beta-subunits (by 8-79%) and subunit gamma2 (by 11-43%). Levels of the minor subunit alpha4 were increased by up to 60% in dentate granule cells in both animal models, whereas those of subunit alpha5 were decreased 24 h and 30 days after SE, but not after kindling. In cornu ammonis 3 pyramidal cells, downregulation of subunits alpha2, alpha4, alpha5, and beta1-3 was observed in the ventral hippocampus and of alpha2, alpha5, beta3 and gamma2 in its dorsal extension 24 h after SE. Similar but less pronounced changes were seen in sector cornu ammonis 1. Persistent decreases in subunit alpha2, alpha4 and beta2 transcript levels were presumably related to SE-induced cell loss. GABA(B) receptor expression was characterized by increases in GABA(B)R2 mRNA levels at all intervals after kindling and SE. The observed changes suggest substantial and cell specific rearrangement of GABA receptors. Lasting downregulation of subunits delta and alpha5 in granule cells and transient decreases in subunit alpha2 and beta1-3 mRNA levels in cornu ammonis 3 pyramidal cells are suggestive of impaired GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition. Persistent upregulation of subunits beta1-3 and gamma2 of the GABA(A) receptor and of GABA(B)R2 mRNA in granule cells, however, may result in activation of compensatory anticonvulsant mechanisms.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a vasorelaxant and positive inotropic and chronotropic peptide that binds to the calcitonin receptor-like receptor. In the heart, upon stimulation CGRP is released from sensory nerve terminals and improves cardiac perfusion and function. In the present study, we investigated alterations in the components of the CGRP signaling system during development of diabetic cardiomyopathy. Rats received a single injection of streptozotocin. Four, 8, and 16 weeks thereafter cardiac CGRP content (radioimmunoassay), calcitonin receptor-like receptor expression (by real-time RT-PCR), and CGRP and calcitonin receptor-like receptor tissue distribution (immunohistochemistry) were assessed. CGRP content of atria and ventricles progressively increased during the 4 months following streptozotocin-treatment, while the distribution of CGRP-immunoreactive fibers was not visibly altered. Conversely, cardiac expression of calcitonin receptor-like receptor initially (4 weeks after treatment) increased but then gradually declined to 47% of control levels in both atria after 16 weeks. These quantitative changes were not associated with altered cellular distribution patterns (primarily in venous and capillary endothelium). Since sensory neurons have been reported to decrease expression of the CGRP precursor in the course of diabetes, the intra-axonal accumulation of CGRP observed here reflects impaired release, which, coupled with the down-regulation of its cognate receptor, calcitonin receptor-like receptor, may contribute to the well-documented impairment of cardioprotective functions in diabetes.
Recent results showed that either systemic or intra-amygdala administration of d-cycloserine, a partial agonist at the glycine modulatory site on the glutamate N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor facilitates the extinction of conditioned fear. Here we evaluated the role of mitogen-activated protein kinase and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase in the basolateral nucleus of amygdala on the effect of d-cycloserine. The facilitation effect of d-cycloserine on fear extinction and mitogen-activated protein kinase activation was completely blocked by intra-amygdala administration of mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor PD98059 (500 ng/side, bilaterally) or U0-126 (20 microM/side, bilaterally). Furthermore, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor (wortmannin, 5.0 microg/side, bilaterally) infused into the basolateral nucleus of amygdala significantly reduced both facilitation effect of d-cycloserine and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activation. Intra-amygdala administration of a transcription inhibitor (actinomycin D, 10 microg dissolved in 1.6 microl vehicle; 0.8 microl per side) and a translation inhibitor (anisomycin, 125 microg dissolved in 1.6 microl vehicle; 0.8 microl per side) completely blocked the facilitation effect of d-cycloserine. Control experiments indicated the blockage by actinomycin D or anisomycin were not due to lasting damage to the basolateral nucleus of amygdala or state dependency. In addition, none of the active drugs used here altered the expression of conditioned fear. These results suggested that phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase-dependent signaling cascades and new protein synthesis within the basolateral nucleus of amygdala played important roles in the d-cycloserine facilitation of the extinction of conditioned fear.
Rats were given bilateral lesions of the motor cortex on the tenth day of life, and then received a daily subcutaneously injection of either basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) or vehicle for 7 consecutive days. In adulthood, they were trained and assessed on a skilled forelimb reaching task. Although all lesion groups were impaired at skilled reaching, the postnatal day 10-lesioned group that received FGF-2 was less impaired than the lesion group that received the vehicle. Furthermore, the lesioned rats that received FGF-2 showed a filling of the lesion cavity with tissue, whereas the lesioned vehicle-treated rats still had a prominent lesion cavity. The functionality of the tissue filling the cavity, tissue surrounding it, and tissue from the motor cortex (in control rats) was assessed using intracortical microstimulation, and showed that stimulation of some sites from the filled cavity could evoke movement. The rats were perfused and processed for Golgi-Cox staining. Medium spiny neurons from the striatum were drawn and analyzed, and the results suggest that postnatal day 10 lesions of the motor cortex induced an increase in the length and complexity of these cells compared with those of non-lesioned rats. Our results suggest that FGF-2 may play an important role in recovery from early brain damage.
Excitatory and inhibitory ionotropic receptors are regulated by protein kinases and phosphatases, which are localized to specific subcellular locations by one of several anchoring proteins. One of these is the A-kinase anchoring protein (AKAP150), which confers spatial specificity to protein kinase A and protein phosphatase 2B in the rat brain. The distribution of AKAP150 was examined at rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cell asymmetric and symmetric post-synaptic densities and with respect to the distribution of markers of excitatory (vesicular glutamate transporter 1, glutamate receptor subunit 1) and inhibitory receptors (vesicular GABA transporter, GABA receptor type A beta2/3 subunits, gephyrin) and the Golgi marker, trans-Golgi network glycoprotein 38. AKAP150 was close to asymmetric synapses, consistent with numerous molecular and biochemical studies suggesting its interaction with components of the excitatory postsynaptic density. In contrast, we did not find AKAP150-immunoreactivity associated with inhibitory synapses in rat CA1 neurons, despite reports demonstrating an in vitro interaction between AKAP150 and GABA receptor type A receptor beta subunits, and the reported co-localization of these proteins in rat hippocampal cultures. There was some overlap between AKAP150 and GABA receptor type A receptor beta2/3-immunoreactivity intracellularly in perinuclear clusters. These findings support previous work indicating the integration of kinase and phosphatase activity at excitatory synapses by AKAP150, but do not support a role for selective targeting of AKAP150 and its accompanying proteins to inhibitory synapses.
Recent research suggests that basal ganglia dysfunction may result in problems integrating concurrent vision and proprioception during movement. We evaluated dopaminergic system involvement in this sensorimotor process during locomotion within a large sample of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients while &quot;On&quot; and &quot;Off&quot; their dopaminergic medications (n=25), in conditions that selectively manipulated the availability of proprioception, vision or both. The present experiment focused on two main objectives: i) to examine the relative influence of visual and proprioceptive inputs on locomotion and target accuracy in patients with PD; and ii) to examine the influence of dopamine replacement therapy on sensorimotor integration while moving toward the target. All participants walked at a self-selected pace on a GAITRite carpet in two baseline conditions (light and dark), as well as four experimental darkness conditions: a) to a remembered target (i.e. proprioception only), b) to a remembered target with light on chest for body position awareness (proprioception plus), c) with vision of a lit target, also with light on chest (vision and proprioception), d) pushed in wheelchair to remembered target (no proprioception or vision). Final position was measured by 2-D radial error, and revealed a group by condition interaction, suggesting that PD patients &quot;Off&quot; their medications move to targets with less accuracy, but approach the accuracy of healthy participants when in the &quot;On&quot; state. Both PD and healthy improved their accuracy with availability of concurrent vision and proprioception (condition c). Interestingly, our results demonstrate that PD &quot;Off&quot; performed the task with greater difficulty than when &quot;On&quot; medication, but only when proprioception was the sole source of feedback. Since PD, whether medicated or unmedicated were even more affected when proprioception was removed (wheelchair), a memory-related explanation can be ruled out. Our results suggest that the basal ganglia are not specifically involved in visuoproprioceptive integration; however, assimilation of proprioceptive feedback to guide an ongoing movement may be a critical function of the basal ganglia.
In the present study, we compared the in vivo neuroprotective efficacy of intraperitoneally administered tetracycline and minocycline to enhance the survival of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) following unilateral axotomy of the adult rat optic nerve. We also examined the effects of the tetracycline drugs on the activation of retinal microglia. RGCs in retinal whole-mounts were visualized by retrograde labeling with fluorogold. The presence of activated microglia was confirmed immunohistochemically using OX-42 monoclonal antibodies. Optic nerve axotomy produced RGC death and increased activation of microglia. No significant RGC loss was seen prior to 5 days and approximately 50% and 80-90% cell loss occurred at 7 and 14 days, respectively. Examination of the effects of tetracycline and minocycline on RGC survival at 7 days post-axotomy, revealed increased numbers of RGCs in minocycline-treated animals (75% of non-axotomized control) compared with vehicle-only (52% of control) and tetracycline-treated (58% of control) animals. The densities of RGCs (RGCs/mm2+/-S.D.) for control, vehicle-, tetracycline- and minocycline-treated axotomized animals were 1996+/-81, 1029+/-186, 1158+/-190 and 1497+/-312, respectively. The neuroprotective effect of minocycline seen at 7 days was transient, since RGCs present in minocycline-treated animals at 14 days post-axotomy (281+/-43, 14% of control) were not significantly different to vehicle-treated animals (225+/-47, 11% of control). OX-42 staining of activated retinal microglia was reduced in tetracycline- and minocycline-treated axotomized animals compared with axotomized animals receiving vehicle-only. These results demonstrate that systemic administration of the second-generation tetracycline derivative, minocycline, delays the death of axotomized RGCs by a mechanism that may be associated with inhibition of microglia activation. The neuroprotective efficacy of minocycline following optic nerve axotomy was superior to that of tetracycline.
Intestinal ischemia impairs gastrointestinal motility. The aims of this study were to investigate the effect of intestinal ischemia on gastrointestinal transit and on the expression of enteric transmitters in the rat, and whether the glutamate N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors influence these effects. Ischemia (1 h), induced by occluding the superior mesenteric artery, was followed by 0 or 24 h of reperfusion. Normal and sham-operated rats served as controls. Serosal blood flow was measured with laser Doppler flow meter. Gastrointestinal transit was measured as time of appearance of a marker in fecal pellets. Immunohistochemistry was used to evaluate the number of neurons immunoreactive for neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS) or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and the density of substance P immunoreactive fibers in the myenteric plexus. The N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors antagonist, (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5HT-[a,b] cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK-801) (1 mg/kg i.v.) or the NOS inhibitor, N-nitro-l-arginine (10 mg/kg i.v.) was administered prior to ischemia. Serosal blood flow was decreased by 70% during ischemia, but it was not altered in sham-operated rats. Gastrointestinal transit was significantly prolonged in ischemic/reperfused rats compared with controls. There was a significant increase in the number of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunoreactive neurons, and a marked decrease of substance P immunoreactive fibers in ischemia followed by 24 h of reperfusion animals compared with controls. These alterations were not observed in ischemia without reperfusion. A significant delay of gastrointestinal transit and increase of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide neurons were also observed in sham-operated rats. The changes in transmitter expression and gastrointestinal transit in ischemic/reperfused rats were prevented by pre-treatment with the NOS inhibitor, N-nitro-l-arginine or the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors antagonist, MK-801. This study suggests an involvement of the glutamatergic system and its interaction with nitric oxide in intestinal ischemia/reperfusion. Ischemia/reperfusion might induce local release of glutamate that activates N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors leading to increased production of nitric oxide and adaptive changes in enteric transmitters that might contribute to gastrointestinal dysmotility.
The central nucleus of the amygdala (Ce) and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) are key structures of the extended amygdala, which is suggested to be involved in drug addiction and reward. We have previously reported that the Ce plays a crucial role in the negative affective component of morphine withdrawal. In the present study, we examined the involvement of the neural pathway between the Ce and the BST in the negative affective component of morphine withdrawal in rats. Rats were rendered morphine dependent by s.c. implantation of a 75-mg morphine pellet for 3 days, and morphine withdrawal was precipitated by an i.p. injection of naloxone (0.3 mg/kg). In the place-conditioning paradigm, discrete bilateral excitotoxic lesions of the Ce or the BST significantly reduced naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal-induced conditioned place aversion. On the other hand, they had little effect on morphine withdrawal-induced somatic signs. In an immunohistochemical study for c-Fos protein, naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal dramatically induced c-Fos-immunoreactive neurons in the capsular part of the Ce, and the lateral and medial divisions of the BST. Bilateral excitotoxic lesion of the Ce reduced the number of morphine withdrawal-induced c-Fos-immunoreactive neurons in the lateral and medial BST, with significant decreases in the posterior, ventral and juxtacapsular parts of lateral division, and anterior part of the medial division, but not in the ventral part of the medial division of the BST. On the other hand, bilateral excitotoxic lesion of the BST had no effect on such c-Fos induction within the capsular part, nor the ventral and medial divisions of the Ce. These results suggest that activation of the BST mediated through the neural pathway from the Ce contributes to the negative affective component of morphine withdrawal.
Increasing evidence based on pharmacological and genetic studies suggests that retinoid signaling plays an important role in developmental control of striatal neurons. In the present report, we screened for genes that might be regulated by retinoids in the developing striatum. We cultured tissue explants from the lateral ganglionic eminence (striatal primordium), and for regional comparison, its adjacent structures of the cerebral cortex and the medial ganglionic eminence in embryonic day 15 rat telencephalon. Using the ribonuclease protection assay, we found that both all-trans retinoic acid and 9-cis retinoic acid significantly up-regulated dopamine D1 receptor, heterotrimeric G protein olfactory, adenylyl cyclase type V and dopamine- and cyclic adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein mRNAs in the lateral ganglionic eminence culture. By contrast, neither all-trans retinoic acid nor 9-cis retinoic acid significantly altered D1 receptor, heterotrimeric G protein olfactory, adenylyl cyclase type V and dopamine- and cyclic adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein mRNAs in the cortical and the medial ganglionic eminence cultures except that D1 receptor mRNA was dramatically induced in the medial ganglionic eminence by retinoic acid treatments. To test whether the induction of multiple dopamine signaling molecules in the lateral ganglionic eminence was due to a general enhancement of neuronal differentiation by retinoic acid, we assayed the effects of retinoic acid on other differentiation markers, including glutamate decarboxylase 65, NR1 subunit of glutamate NMDA receptor and microtubule-associated protein-2. None of these genes were significantly altered by retinoic acid treatments in the lateral ganglionic eminence culture, indicating the specificity of gene regulation by retinoic acid signaling. As D1 receptor, heterotrimeric G protein olfactory, adenylyl cyclase type V and dopamine- and cyclic adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein are important molecules involved in propagation of striatal dopamine neurotransmission, our study raises the hypothesis that retinoid signaling may coordinately activate the transcriptional program that is associated with the dopamine signaling pathway in developing striatal neurons. Such coordinate regulation by retinoids may be part of the mechanisms by which the complex yet highly organized neurochemical constituents of the striatum are established during development.
The distribution and discharge pattern of respiratory neurons in the 'pneumotaxic center' of the rostral pons in the rat has remained unknown. We performed optical recordings and whole-cell patch clamp recordings to clarify respiratory neuron activity in the rostral pons of a brainstem-spinal cord preparation from a newborn rat. Inspiratory nerve activity was recorded in the 4th cervical nerve and used as a trigger signal for optical recordings. Respiratory neuron activity was detected in the limited region of the rostral-lateral pons. The main active region was presumed to be primarily the Klliker-Fuse nucleus. The location of respiratory neurons was further confirmed by Lucifer Yellow staining after conducting whole-cell recordings. From a membrane potential analysis of the respiratory neurons in the rostral pons, the respiratory neurons were divided into four types: inspiratory neuron (71.9%), pre-inspiratory neuron (5.3%), post-inspiratory neuron (19.3%), and expiratory neuron (3.5%). A noticeable difference between pontine and medullary respiratory neurons was that post-inspiratory neurons were more frequently encountered in the pons. Application of a mu-opioid agonist, [d-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly5-ol]-enkephalin, transformed the burst pattern of post-inspiratory neurons into that of pre-inspiratory neurons. The electrical stimulation of the sensory root of the trigeminal nerve induced three types of responses in 85% of pontine respiratory neurons: inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (42.7%), excitatory postsynaptic potentials (37.7%) and no response (15.1%). Our findings provide the first evidence in the rat for the presence of respiratory neurons in the rostral pons, with localization in the lateral region approximately overlapping with the Klliker-Fuse nucleus.
During rapid cell growth the availability of phospholipid precursors like cytidine triphosphate and diacylglycerol can become limiting in the formation of key membrane constituents like phosphatidylcholine. Uridine, a normal plasma constituent, can be converted to cytidine triphosphate in PC12 [corrected] cells and intact brain, and has been shown to produce a resulting increase in phosphatidylcholine synthesis. To determine whether treatments that elevate uridine availability also thereby augment membrane production, we exposed PC12 [corrected] cells which had been differentiated by nerve growth factor to various concentrations of uridine, and measured the numbers of neurites the cells produced. After 4 but not 2 days uridine significantly and dose-dependently increased the number of neurites per cell. This increase was accompanied by increases in neurite branching and in levels of the neurite proteins neurofilament M [corrected] and neurofilament 70. Uridine treatment also increased intracellular levels of cytidine triphosphate, which suggests that uridine may affect neurite outgrowth by enhancing phosphatidylcholine synthesis. Uridine may also stimulate neuritogenesis by a second mechanism, since the increase in neurite outgrowth was mimicked by exposing the cells to uridine triphosphate, and could be blocked by various drugs known to antagonize P2Y receptors (suramin; Reactive Blue 2; pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4' disulfonic acid). Treatment of the cells with uridine or uridine triphosphate stimulated their accumulation of inositol phosphates, and this effect was also blocked by pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4' disulfonic acid. Moreover, degradation of nucleotides by apyrase blocked the stimulatory effect of uridine on neuritogenesis. Taken together these data indicate that uridine can regulate the output of neurites from differentiating PC12 [corrected] cells, and suggest that it does so in two ways, i.e. both by acting through cytidine triphosphate as a precursor for phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis and through uridine triphosphate as an agonist for P2Y receptors.
Transient cerebral ischemia leads to protein aggregation mainly in neurons destined to undergo delayed neuronal death after ischemia. This study utilized a rat transient cerebral ischemia model to investigate whether ischemic preconditioning is able to alleviate neuronal protein aggregation, thereby protecting neurons from ischemic neuronal damage. Ischemic preconditioning was introduced by a sublethal 3 min period of ischemia followed by 48 h of recovery. Brains from rats with either ischemic preconditioning or sham-surgery were then subjected to a subsequent 7 min period of ischemia followed by 30 min, 4, 24, 48 and 72 h of reperfusion. Protein aggregation and neuronal death were studied by electron and confocal microscopy, as well as by biochemical analyses. Seven minutes of cerebral ischemia alone induced severe protein aggregation after 4 h of reperfusion mainly in CA1 neurons destined to undergo delayed neuronal death (which took place after 72 h of reperfusion). Ischemic preconditioning reduced significantly protein aggregation and virtually eliminated neuronal death in CA1 neurons. Biochemical analyses revealed that ischemic preconditioning decreased accumulation of ubiquitin-conjugated proteins (ubi-proteins) and reduced free ubiquitin depletion after brain ischemia. Furthermore, ischemic preconditioning also reduced redistribution of heat shock cognate protein 70 and Hdj1 from cytosolic fraction to protein aggregate-containing fraction after brain ischemia. These results suggest that ischemic preconditioning decreases protein aggregation after brain ischemia.
The amygdala is a brain area which plays a decisive role in fear and anxiety. Since exposure to chronic stress can induce profound effects in emotion and cognition, plasticity in specific amygdaloid nuclei in response to prior stress has been hypothesized to account for stress-induced emotional alterations. In order to identify amygdala nuclei which may be affected under chronic stress conditions we evaluated the effects of 21-days chronic restraint stress on the expression of a molecule implicated crucially in alterations in structural plasticity: the polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule. We found that polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule-immunoreactivity within the amygdala, present in somata and neuronal processes, has a regional gradient with the central medial and medial amygdaloid nuclei showing the highest levels. Our results demonstrate that chronic restraint stress induced an overall reduction in polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule-immunoreactivity in the amygdaloid complex, mainly due to a significant decrease in the central medial amygdaloid and medial amygdaloid nuclei. Our data suggest that polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule in these nuclei may play a prominent role in functional and structural remodeling induced by stress, being a potential mechanism for cognitive and emotional modulation. Furthermore, these finding provide the first clear evidence that life experiences can regulate the expression of polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule in the amygdaloid complex.
Intractable seizures originating in the mesial temporal lobe can often be controlled by resection. An alternative to removing hippocampal tissue may be transplantation of GABA-producing cells. Neural cell transplantation has been performed in hundreds of patients, including some with temporal lobe epilepsy. This study evaluates the seizure-suppressing capabilities of engineered GABA-producing cells transplanted into the dentate gyrus. Immortalized neurons were engineered to produce GABA under the control of doxycycline. The cells were characterized for GABA production in vitro and for their ability to raise GABA concentrations in vivo. Cells were transplanted bilaterally into the dentate gyrus of rats and tested in two separate paradigms. Afterdischarge thresholds and durations were tested with granule cell stimulation, and the development of behavioral seizures, induced by daily electrical stimulation of the major excitatory input pathway into the dentate gyrus, was assessed in the presence, or the absence, of doxycycline. GABA production was under the tight control of doxycycline. Cells engineered to produce GABA raised tissue GABA concentrations in the hippocampus compared with non GABA-producing cells, and this was abolished when doxycycline was administered. GABA-producing cells raised the threshold, and shortened the duration of hippocampal afterdischarges elicited by granule cell stimulation. Lastly, the appearance of stage 5 seizures was slowed in the kindling paradigm, compared with a group that received non-GABA-producing cells, and compared with a group that received GABA-producing cells but was administered doxycycline. This study shows that targeted hippocampal implants of genetically engineered cells have the potential to raise GABA levels and to affect seizure development. The ability to suppress the production of GABA, and to modulate the physiological effects of the transplanted cells provides an important level of experimental control. These techniques, combined with stem cell technology, may advance cell-based therapies for epilepsy and other diseases of the CNS.
The hypothalamus, especially the preoptic area, plays a crucial role in thermoregulation, and our previous studies showed that the periaqueductal gray matter is important for transmitting efferent signals to thermoregulatory effectors in rats. Neurons responsible for skin vasodilation are located in the lateral portion of the rostral periaqueductal gray matter, and neurons that mediate non-shivering thermogenesis are located in the ventrolateral part of the caudal periaqueductal gray matter. We investigated the distribution of neurons in the rat hypothalamus that are activated by exposure to neutral (26 degrees C), warm (33 degrees C), or cold (10 degrees C) ambient temperature and project to the rostral periaqueductal gray matter or caudal periaqueductal gray matter, by using the immunohistochemical analysis of Fos and a retrograde tracer, cholera toxin-b. When cholera toxin-b was injected into the rostral periaqueductal gray matter, many double-labeled cells were observed in the median preoptic nucleus in warm-exposed rats, but few were seen in cold-exposed rats. On the other hand, when cholera toxin-b was injected into the caudal periaqueductal gray matter, many double-labeled cells were seen in a cell group extending from the dorsomedial nucleus through the dorsal hypothalamic area in cold-exposed rats but few were seen in warm-exposed rats. These results suggest that the rostral periaqueductal gray matter receives input from the median preoptic nucleus neurons activated by warm exposure, and the caudal periaqueductal gray matter receives input from neurons in the dorsomedial nucleus/dorsal hypothalamic area region activated by cold exposure. These efferent pathways provide a substrate for thermoregulatory skin vasomotor response and non-shivering thermogenesis, respectively.
Neurons in the ventrolateral division of the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus (VMNvl) become hypertrophied when exposed to high estrogen levels, an effect that has been observed after estrogen treatment of ovariectomized rats as well as during the proestrus stage of the ovarian cycle. In an attempt to examine whether the neuronal hypertrophy noticed in these conditions reflects metabolic activation of the neurons we have examined, using quantitative methods, the cytoplasmic organelles involved in protein synthesis and the nuclear pores of VMNvl neurons from females on proestrus, when estrogen levels are high, and on diestrus, when estrogen levels are low. Because VMNvl neurons are sexually dimorphic with respect to their size we have performed, in parallel, similar analyses in neurons from age-matched male rats. Our results show that the volume and the surface area of the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) and Golgi apparatus are increased at proestrus. They also show that the density of nuclear pores is greater in males than in females whereas the volume and the surface area of the RER and Golgi apparatus are sexually dimorphic only at specific phases of the ovarian cycle: the male-female differences are notorious in the RER when females are on diestrus and in the Golgi apparatus when they are on proestrus. Given that the size of the RER and of the Golgi apparatus correlates with the level of neuronal protein synthesis, data obtained in this study suggest that the sex-related differences and the estrus cycle variations in neuronal size reflect corresponding differences and fluctuations in the metabolic activity of VMNvl neurons.
Prenatal stress has long-lasting effects on cognitive function and on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal response to stress. We previously reported that the serotonin concentration and synaptic density in the hippocampus were reduced following prenatal stress [Int J Dev Neurosci 16 (1998) 209]. Since serotonin plays a role in the formation and maintenance of synapses, we hypothesized that a neonatal reduction in hippocampal serotonin levels may lead to learning disabilities in prenatally stressed mice. To test this hypothesis, we treated prenatally stressed mice with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor in order to normalize their postnatal serotonin turnover levels. What we found was that the oral administration of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor to prenatally stressed mice during postnatal weeks 1-3 but not 6-8 normalized their corticosterone response to stress, serotonin turnover in the hippocampus, and density of dendritic spines and synapses in the hippocampal CA3 region. Concomitantly, such treatment partially restored their ability to learn spatial information.
The region-specific characteristics of the extracellular matrix are crucial for diverse functions in the brain. Pancortins/neuron-specific olfactomedin-related glycoproteins are components of the extracellular matrix. They comprise four alternatively spliced variants, Pancortin-1 to -4, which share a common portion, the B part, in the middle of their structure, have two pairs of alternatively spliced 5' regions, A1 and A2, and 3' regions, C1 and C2. Here we demonstrate that in mice, Pancortin-3 (A2-B-C1) and Pancortin-4 (A2-B-C2), which we have grouped together the A2-Pancortins, were transcribed early during the development of the brain in a region specific manner and were expressed very stably in vivo. They are N-glycosylated and secreted. Furthermore, we examined their ontogenetical expression profiles in the developing thalamus using antiserum against the common B region, since transient expressions of their mRNAs were notable there. In the developing thalami, they lasted long in oligomerized form even after the transcription of their mRNAs decreased to an undetectable level. Further analyses revealed that cysteine residues that are located in the common B part are important for homo- and hetero-oligomer formation of A2-Pancortins. When we substituted cysteine residues 45 and 47 with serine residues in that common B part, oligomerization of the A2-Pancortins was highly disturbed.
Many studies have documented the influence of the flocculus upon vestibulo-ocular reflex eye movements. Electrical stimulation of Purkinje cells in a central longitudinal zone evoked slow ipsilateral eye movements in the horizontal plane. Recently, the organization of neurons in the vestibulo-cerebellar pathways controlling single lateral rectus and medial rectus muscles was identified in rats using the transynaptic transport of pseudorabies virus. Overlapping distributions of neurons innervating single muscles were located predominantly in a central longitudinal zone of ventral paraflocculi/dorsal flocculi, and the rostral half of ventral flocculi. This study used two isogenic pseudorabies virus recombinants to determine whether individual cells in those brain regions have collateralized projections to motoneuron pools innervating the right lateral rectus and the left medial rectus muscles using different survival times and dual injection paradigms. The infected neurons were detected using dual-labeling immunofluorescence. Three populations of labeled neurons were observed: two populations replicated only one reporter while a third contained both viruses (i.e. dual-labeled). Most dual-labeled cells were located in a central longitudinal zone of the ventral paraflocculus, ipsilateral to the injection into the medial rectus, whereas very few were in the flocculus. This finding suggests that the flocculus and ventral paraflocculus may exert influence upon distinct vestibulo-cerebellar pathways. Most Purkinje cells in the ventral paraflocculus may influence the vestibulo-ocular reflex pathways through collateralization, whereas those in the flocculus may instead provide a monocular control of eye movements.
In several neurological disorders including hyperhomocysteinemia, homocysteine (Hcy) accumulates in the brain, and acts as a potent neurotoxin. However, the molecular mechanisms induced by increased levels of Hcy in brain are not well understood. Here we show an activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1 and ERK2) and the downstream nuclear targets Elk-1 and calcium/cAMP response element binding protein, in the hippocampus of cystathionine beta synthase deficient mice, a murine model of hyperhomocysteinemia. An ex vivo model of hippocampal slices allowed us to reproduce Hcy -induced ERK activation and to unravel the mechanisms responsible of this activation. Of interest, N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), non-NMDA and metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists all blocked Hcy -induced ERK activation. Moreover, the ERK activation was blocked in the presence of Na+-channel blocker tetrodotoxin, indicating the existence of a trans-synaptic activity in ERK activation by Hcy in hippocampal slices. The effects of Hcy on ERK cascade activation were also dependent on calcium influx, CaMK-II, PKC as well as PKA activation. Thus, altogether these data support a role of Hcy on ERK activation, via complex mechanisms, starting with a control of glutamate release, which in turn activates ionotropic and metabotropic receptor subtypes and produces increases in intracellular calcium levels.
The transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) is an inducible regulator of genes that plays a crucial role in the nervous system. Glutamate receptor stimulation is one well-described mechanism for NF-kappaB activation. In the studies presented here we used the glutamate analog, kainate to investigate the signaling mechanisms that couple to NF-kappaB activation in hippocampus. Kainate (250 nM) application to hippocampal slices elicited a time-dependent increase in nuclear NF-kappaB levels in areas CA3 and CA1, but not dentate, compared with controls. Further analysis focused on hippocampal area CA3, revealed increased NF-kappaB DNA binding activity in response to kainate stimulation. Supershift electrophoretic mobility shift assay indicated that the kainate-mediated NF-kappaB complex binding DNA was composed of p65, p50, and c-Rel subunits. Through inhibition studies we found that extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) couple to basal and kainate-mediated NF-kappaB DNA binding activity in area CA3. Kainate elicited decreased total and increased phospho-inhibitor kappa B alpha (IkappaBalpha), suggesting that kainate-mediated activation of NF-kappaB is via the classical IkappaB kinase pathway. Interestingly, inhibition of ERK but not PI3K blocked the kainate-mediated increase in phospho-IkappaBalpha. Thus, our findings support a role for the ERK and PI3K pathways in kainate-mediated NF-kappaB activation in hippocampal area CA3, but these kinases may target the NF-kappaB pathway at different loci.
TATA binding protein (TBP) is a general transcription factor that plays an important role in initiation of transcription. In recent years evidence has emerged implicating TPB in the molecular mechanism of a number of neurodegenerative diseases. Wild type TBP in humans contains a long polyglutamine stretch ranging in size from 29 to 42. It has been found associated with aggregated proteins in several of the polyglutamine disorders. Expansion in the CAA/CAG composite repeat beyond 42 has been shown to cause a cerebellar ataxia, SCA17. The involvement of such an important housekeeping protein in the disease mechanism suggests a major impact on the functioning of cells. The question remains, does TBP contribute to these diseases through a loss of normal function, likely to be catastrophic to a cell, or the gain of an aberrant function? This review deals with the function of TBP in transcription and cell function. The distribution of the polyglutamine coding allele lengths in TBP of the normal population and in SCA17 is reviewed and an outline is given on the reported cases of SCA17. The role of TBP in other polyglutamine disorders will be addressed as well as its possible role in other neurodegenerative diseases.
Serotonergic systems play important roles in modulating behavioral arousal, including behavioral arousal and vigilance associated with anxiety states. To further our understanding of the neural systems associated with increases in anxiety states, we investigated the effects of multiple anxiogenic drugs on topographically organized subpopulations of serotonergic neurons using double immunohistochemical staining for c-Fos and tryptophan hydroxylase combined with topographical analysis of the rat dorsal raphe nucleus (DR). Anxiogenic drugs with diverse pharmacological properties including the adenosine receptor antagonist caffeine, the serotonin 5-HT2A/2C receptor agonist m-chlorophenyl piperazine (mCPP), the alpha2-adrenoreceptor antagonist yohimbine, and the benzodiazepine receptor partial inverse agonist N-methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxamide (FG-7142) induced increases in behavioral arousal and vigilance behaviors consistent with an increase in anxiety state. In addition, these anxiogenic drugs, excluding yohimbine, had convergent actions on an anatomically-defined subset of serotonergic neurons within the middle and caudal, dorsal subdivision of the DR. High resolution topographical analysis revealed that at the mid-rostrocaudal level, caffeine and FG-7142 had convergent effects on c-Fos expression in serotonergic neurons that were restricted to a previously undefined region, which we have named the shell region of the dorsal part of the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRDSh), that overlaps the anatomical border between the dorsal part of the dorsal raphe nucleus, the ventral part of the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRV), and the ventrolateral part of the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRVL). Retrograde tracing methods revealed that DRDSh contains large numbers of neurons projecting to the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus, a forebrain structure important for emotional appraisal and modulation of anxiety-related physiological and behavioral responses. Together these findings support the hypothesis that there is a functional topographical organization in the DR and are consistent with the hypothesis that anxiogenic drugs have selective actions on a subpopulation of serotonergic neurons projecting to a distributed central autonomic and emotional motor control system regulating anxiety states and anxiety-related physiological and behavioral responses.
Stimulation of the periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) and the deeper layers of superior colliculus (SC) produces both freezing (tense immobility) and flight (trotting, galloping and jumping) behaviors along with exophthalmus (fully opened bulging eyes) and, less often, micturition and defecation. The topography of these behaviors within the distinct layers of SC remains unclear. Therefore, this study compared the defensive repertoire of intermediate (ILSC) and deep (DLSC) layers of SC to those of dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter (DLPAG) and lateral periaqueductal gray matter (LPAG) [Neuroscience 125 (2004) 71]. Electrical stimulation was carried out through intensity- (0-70 microA) and frequency-varying (0-130 Hz) pulses. Chemical stimulation employed a slow microinfusion of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA, 0-2.3 nmol, 0.5 nmol/min). Probability curves of intensity-, frequency- and NMDA-evoked behaviors, as well as the unbiased estimates of median stimuli, were obtained by threshold logistic analysis. Compared with the PAG, the most important differences were the lack of frequency-evoked jumping in both layers of SC and the lack of NMDA-evoked galloping in the ILSC. Moreover, although galloping and jumping were also elicited by NMDA stimulation of DLSC, effective doses were about three times higher than those of DLPAG, suggesting the spreading of the injectate to the latter structure. In contrast, exophthalmus, immobility and trotting were evoked throughout the tectum structures. However, whatever the response and kind of stimulus, the lowest thresholds were always found in the DLPAG and the highest ones in the ILSC. Besides, neither the appetitive, nor the offensive, muricide or male reproductive behaviors were produced by any kind of stimulus in the presence of appropriate targets. Accordingly, the present data suggest that the deeper layers of SC are most likely involved in the increased attentiveness (exophthalmus, immobility) or restlessness (trotting) behaviors that herald a full-blown flight reaction (galloping, jumping) mediated in the PAG.

Repeated low-dose cocaine treatment (0.5 mg/kg/day) during adolescence induces offensive aggression in male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). This study examines the hypothesis that adolescent cocaine exposure predisposes hamsters to heightened levels of aggressive behavior by increasing the activity of the anterior hypothalamic-vasopressinergic neural system. In a first experiment, adolescent male hamsters were treated with low-dose cocaine and then scored for offensive aggression in the absence or presence of vasopressin receptor antagonists applied directly to the anterior hypothalamus. Adolescent cocaine-treated hamsters displayed highly escalated offensive aggression that could be reversed by blocking the activity of vasopressin receptors within the anterior hypothalamus. In a second set of experiments, adolescent hamsters were administered low-dose cocaine or vehicle, tested for offensive aggression, and then examined for differences in vasopressin innervation patterns and expression levels in the anterior hypothalamus, as well as the basal- and stimulated-release of vasopressin in this same brain region. Aggressive, adolescent cocaine-treated hamsters showed no differences in vasopressin afferent innervation and/or peptide levels in the anterior hypothalamus compared with non-aggressive, saline-treated littermates. Conversely, significant increases in stimulated, but not basal, vasopressin release were detected from the anterior hypothalamus of aggressive, cocaine-treated animals compared with non-aggressive, saline-treated controls. Together, these data suggest that adolescent cocaine exposure increases aggression by increasing stimulated release of vasopressin in the anterior hypothalamus, providing direct evidence for a causal role of anterior hypothalamic-vasopressin activity in adolescent cocaine-induced offensive aggression. A model for how alterations in anterior hypothalamic-vasopressin neural functioning may facilitate the development of the aggressive phenotype in adolescent-cocaine exposed animals is presented.
We have cloned a full-length complementary DNA from the chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus), which encodes a polypeptide that exhibits approximately 75% identity to the product of the mammalian gene Arc (activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein), also known as arg3.1 (activity-regulated gene). Since this gene is an immediate-early gene that has been suggested to play a role in synaptic plasticity and learning and memory processes, its expression has been analyzed in a juvenile form of learning, namely, filial imprinting. Our results demonstrate that Arc/arg3.1 mRNA is detectable in the newborn chick brain, and that at this early age the level of this transcript can be altered by brief sensory/emotional experience. After postnatal exposure to a novel 30-min auditory imprinting stimulus, Arc/arg3.1 mRNA was found to be significantly increased in two higher associative areas, the mesopallium intermediomediale (P = 0.002) and the nidopallium dorso-caudale (P = 0.031), compared with nave controls. The transcript level was also significantly elevated after imprinting in Area L pallii (P=0.045), which is analogous to the mammalian auditory cortex. In addition, increases were seen in the medio-rostral nidopallium/mesopallium (P = 0.054), which is presumed to be the analog of the mammalian prefrontal cortex, and the hyperpallium intercalatum (P = 0.054), but these did not quite reach significance. We discuss these data in the light of those obtained in an earlier study, in the same paradigm, for the avian immediate-early gene, zenk (an acronym for zif-268, egr-1, ngfi-a and krox-24, which are different names for the orthologous mammalian gene). We conclude that, although both the Arc/arg3.1 and zenk genes are induced by auditory imprinting, they are significantly up-regulated in different learning-relevant brain regions. It is, therefore, evident that they must be activated by different mechanisms.
The electrical stimulation of a specific hypothalamic area rapidly evokes attacks in rats. Noteworthy, attack-related hypothalamic structures were identified in all species studied so far. The area has been extensively mapped in rats, and its anatomical connections have been studied in detail. However, technical difficulties precluded earlier the precise identification of the neural elements mediating the aggressive effects of stimulation. It now appears that a dense and distinct group of glutamatergic cells expressing vesicular glutamate transporter 2 mRNA extends over the entire hypothalamic attack area. Rostral parts overwhelmingly contained glutamatergic neurons. In more caudal parts, glutamatergic and fewer GABAergic neurons were found. The remarkable similarity in the distribution of hypothalamic attack area and glutamatergic cell groups suggests that these cells mediate the aggressive effects of stimulation. Surprisingly, thyrotropin releasing hormone mRNA was co-localized in a subset of glutamatergic neurons. Such neurons were present at all rostro-caudal levels of the hypothalamic attack area, except for that part of the hypothalamic attack area extending into the ventro-lateral part of the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. Earlier data on the projections of hypothalamic thyrotropin releasing hormone neurons suggest that this subpopulation plays a specific role in attack behavior. Thus, we identified three neuronal phenotypes in the hypothalamic structure that is involved in the induction of attacks: glutamatergic neurons co-expressing thyrotropin releasing hormone, glutamatergic neurons without thyrotropin releasing hormone, and GABAergic neurons dispersed among the glutamatergic cells. Assessing the specific roles and connections of these neuron subpopulations would contribute to our understanding of the mechanisms underlying attack behavior and aggression.
The present studies aimed to determine whether cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptide in the nucleus of accumbens shell (AcbSh) is implicated in the regulation of food intake. Bilateral intranuclear injections of CART peptide (55-102, 1 microg/microl/side) into the AcbSh decreased food intake with no change in locomotion activity and attenuated the orexigenic effect of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol (100 ng/microl/side) in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Decreased food intake after bilateral intranuclear injections of CART was more sustained in freely fed rats than in food-deprived rats, suggesting fuel availability is an important factor in modulating the function of CART in the regulation of feeding. Our anatomical findings indicate that in addition to the perifornical region and the arcuate nucleus, some neurons within the AcbSh also project within the AcbSh. Moreover, many of these efferent cells contain CART immunoreactivity, including those which reside within the AcbSh, suggesting that accumbal CART circuitry is involved in the central function of the nucleus accumbens. Furthermore, fasting suppressed CART mRNA levels in the AcbSh, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, arcuate nucleus, and the perifornical region, indicating that the Acb is sensitive to fuel availability to an extent similar to those regions in the hypothalamus. Our findings are the first to demonstrate that CART mRNA in the AcbSh is sensitive to metabolic challenges and that injection of CART peptide into the AcbSh has an inhibitory effect on food intake.
Specific immunohistochemical staining for NMDA receptor NR2A/B subunits was found in the outer root sheath layer of rat sinus hair (whisker) follicle. Co-localization with CK 20 confirmed that Merkel cells were stained. The NR2A/B staining seen on Merkel cells was pericellular. In addition it appeared that NF70-positive staining was in close proximity to, but did not colocalise with NR2A/B immunoreactivity, indicating that NR2A/B was only expressed by Merkel cells and not their adjacent nerve terminals. Merkel cells and the nerve terminals have previously been associated with electrophysiological recordings from slowly adapting type I (St I) mechanoreceptor unit activity. Pharmacological experiments with isolated sinus hairs using a wide range of ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists found that only certain NMDA receptor blockers depressed St I unit responses to mechanical stimuli. AMPA/kainate receptor antagonists (CNQX and NBQX, 100 microM) had no effect, nor did classical competitive NMDA receptor antagonists, D-AP5 (600 microM) and R-CPP (100 microM), nor the NMDA glycine site antagonist 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid (100 microM). The only effective NMDA receptor blockers were those selective for the polyamine site: ifenprodil (IC50 20 microM) and Ro 25-6981 (IC50 approximately 50 microM), and the associated ion channel: MK 801, ketamine and (+/-)-1-(1,2-diphenylethyl)piperidine (IC50 &lt; 100 microM). The two enantiomers of MK 801 were equipotent. All effects were long lasting, consistent with their non-/uncompetitive actions. The most potent drug tested, ifenprodil, at an effective dose of 30 microM, had a mean recovery time of 74 min. A three-fold increase in drug concentration was required to depress St II units (associated with non-synaptic lanceolate endings). Changes in Zn2+ did not affect St I unit responses. These data suggest that unconventional NMDA receptors are involved in St I unit responses, but question the notion of a glutamatergic synapse between the Merkel cell and nerve terminal.
The specific role of endogenous glutathione in response to neuronal degeneration induced by trimethyltin (TMT) in the hippocampus was examined in rats. A single injection of TMT (8 mg/kg, i.p.) produced a rapid increase in the formation of hydroxyl radical and in the levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and protein carbonyl. TMT-induced seizure activity significantly increased after this initial oxidative stress, and remained elevated for up to 2 weeks post-TMT. Although a significant loss of hippocampal Cornus Ammonis CA1, CA3 and CA4 neurons was observed at 3 weeks post-TMT, the elevation in the level of hydroxyl radicals, MDA, and protein carbonyl had returned to near-control levels at that time. In contrast, the ratio of reduced to oxidized glutathione remained significantly decreased at 3 weeks post-TMT, and the glutathione-like immunoreactivity of the pyramidal neurons was decreased. However glutathione-positive glia-like cells proliferated mainly in the CA1, CA3, and CA4 sectors and were intensely immunoreactive. Double labeling demonstrated the co-localization of glutathione-immunoreactive glia-like cells and reactive astrocytes, as indicated by immunostaining for glial fibrillary acidic protein. This suggests that astroglial cells were mobilized to synthesize glutathione in response to the TMT insult. The TMT-induced changes in glutathione-like immunoreactivity appear to be concurrent with changes in the expression levels of glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase. Ascorbate treatment significantly attenuated TMT-induced seizures, as well as the initial oxidative stress, impaired glutathione homeostasis, and neuronal degeneration in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that ascorbate is an effective neuroprotectant against TMT. The initial oxidative burden induced by TMT may be a causal factor in the generation of seizures, prolonged disturbance of endogenous glutathione homeostasis, and consequent neuronal degeneration.
mKirre, a mammalian homolog of the Drosophila kirre, is expressed in bone marrow stromal cells and the brain. Although mKirre has been shown to support the hematopoietic stem cells, little is known about the function of mKirre in the brain. In the present study, to gain insights into the function of mKirre, we investigated the expression pattern of mKirre gene in the developing and adult mouse brain using in situ hybridization. In the adult brain, mKirre mRNA was highly expressed in the olfactory bulb, the piriform cortex, the cochlear nucleus, and the cerebellum. At embryonic day (E) 11.5, we could observe mKirre mRNA in the differentiating zones of various regions, such as the caudate-putamen, the geniculate body, the thalamus, the amygdala, and the brainstem. Its gene expression in these regions at E11.5 also persisted to the adult, in which its expression levels were much less prominent. After birth, we could first observe high expression of mKirre mRNA in the glomerular and mitral layers of the olfactory bulb, the cortical plate of the neocortex, the cochlear nucleus, and the molecular and granule cell layers of the cerebellum. In the hippocampus, its gene expression was first observed in the dentate gyrus at postnatal day 7. The spatiotemporal expression pattern of mKirre mRNA suggests important roles of mKirre in later developmental processes, especially the synapse formation.
Visceral and somatic pain perception differs in several aspects: poor localization of visceral pain and the ability of visceral pain to be referred to somatic structures. The perception of pain intensity and affect in visceral and somatic pain syndromes is often different, with visceral pain reported as more unpleasant. To determine whether these behavioral differences are due to differences in the central processing of visceral and somatic pain, non-invasive imaging tools are required to examine the neural correlates of visceral and somatic events when the behavior has been isolated and matched for either unpleasantness or pain intensity. In this study we matched the unpleasantness of somatic and visceral sensations and imaged the neural representation of this perception using functional magnetic resonance imaging in 10 healthy right-handed subjects. Each subject received noxious thermal stimuli to the left foot and midline lower back and balloon distension of the rectum while being scanned. Stimuli were matched to the same unpleasantness rating, producing mild-moderate pain intensity for somatic stimuli but an intensity below the pain threshold for the visceral stimuli. Visceral stimuli induced deactivation of the perigenual cingulate bilaterally with a relatively greater activation of the right anterior insula-i.e. regions encoding affect. Somatic pain induced left dorso-lateral pre-frontal cortex and bilateral inferior parietal cortex activation i.e. regions encoding spatial orientation and assessing perceptual valence of the stimulus. We believe that the observed patterns of activation represent the differences in cortical process of interoceptive (visceral) and exteroceptive (somatic) stimuli when matched for unpleasantness.
Activation of the cardiac mechanoreceptors results in changes in sympathetic nerve activity and plays an important role in the responses elicited by elevated blood volume. Stimulation of the reflex influences several key autonomic regions, namely the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), the nucleus of the tractus solitarius (NTS) and the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM). Neurons in these regions project directly to the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), a critical region in the generation of sympathetic vasomotor tone. The aim of the present experiments was to determine whether neurons in the PVN, NTS and CVLM that are activated by cardiac mechanoreceptor stimulation also project to the RVLM. Animals were prepared, under general anesthesia, by microinjection of a retrogradely transported tracer into the pressor region of the RVLM, and the placement of a balloon-tipped cannula at the junction of the right atrium and the superior vena cava. On the experimental day, in conscious rats, the balloon was inflated to stimulate cardiac mechanoreceptors (n = 9), or left uninflated (control, n = 8). Compared with controls, there was a significantly increased number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons (a marker of activation) in both the PVN (2.5-fold) and NTS (two-fold), but this was not seen in the CVLM. Compared with controls, a significant number of the neurons in the PVN (8%) and NTS (4.0%) that projected to the RVLM were activated. The data suggest that subgroups of RVLM-projecting neurons located in the PVN and NTS are involved in the central reflex pathway activated by cardiac mechanoreceptor stimulation.
In this study, the effects of lead (Pb2+) on voltage-gated sodium channel currents (INa) were investigated in acutely dissociated rat hippocampal CA1 neurons using the conventional whole-cell patch-clamp technique. We found that Pb2+ reduced the amplitudes of INa in a concentration-dependent manner, and the effect could be washed out by extracellular application of 3 mM EGTA. The results also showed that at the concentration of 100 microM, Pb2+ decreased the activation threshold and the voltage at which the maximum INa current was evoked and caused negative shifts of INa steady-state activation curve, and enlarged INa tail-currents; Pb2+ induces a left shift of the steady-state inactivation curve, and delayed the recovery of INa from inactivation, and reduced the fraction of available sodium channels; Pb2+ delayed the activation of INa in a concentration- and voltage-dependent manner, and prolonged the time course of the fast inactivation of sodium channels; activity-dependent attenuation of INa was not altered by Pb2+. It was suggested that Pb2+ might exert its effects on sodium channels by binding a specific site on the extracellular side of sodium channels and dragging the IIS4 voltage sensor outwardly. The interaction of Pb2+ with voltage-dependent sodium channels may lead to change in electrical activity and contribute to worsen the neurotoxicological damage.
Although neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1)-bearing neurons are distributed in lamina I of the trigeminal caudal nucleus (Vc) and constitute major projection neurons, little is known about their fundamental role(s) in nociceptive processing. This study examines the effect of intra cisterna magna injection of substance P (SP) conjugated to saporin (SP-Sap; 5 microM, 5 microl) [with/without systemic administration of bicuculline] on c-Fos expression in the trigeminal sensory nucleus (TSN) induced 2 h after 10 min repetitive electrical stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion (TG) at high intensity (1.0 mA, 5 Hz, 5 ms) in the urethane-anesthetized rat. In the SP-Sap-treated rats, the numbers of NK-1-immunopositive neurons in laminae I and III of the Vc decreased compared with rats similarly pretreated with saline (Sal; 5 microl) or blank-saporin (Bl-Sap; 5 microM, 5 microl). In Sal- or Bl-Sap-treated controls, high intensity stimulation induced c-Fos expression in neurons throughout the full extent of ipsilateral superficial layers of the Vc (VcI/II), magnocellular zone of the Vc (VcIII/IV) and the dorsal or dorsomedial subdivisions of the rostral TSN above the obex (trigeminal principal, oral (Vo) and interpolar nuclei). Preadministration of bicuculline (2 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased the numbers of c-Fos-immunopositive neurons in the VcI/II, VcIII/IV and Vo in Sal- or Bl-Sap-treated controls. In contrast, high intensity stimulation induced less c-Fos-immunopositive neurons in the VcI/II and Vo of rats treated with SP-Sap compared with those in Sal- or Bl-Sap-treated controls. In SP-Sap-treated rats preadministered with bicuculline, the numbers of c-Fos-immunopositive neurons in the VcI/II and Vo were increased compared with the SP-Sap-treated rats preadministered with Sal. These results suggest that NK-1-immunopositive neurons in laminae I and III of Vc play a pivotal role in the nociceptive specific processing in the TSN through GABA(A) receptors.
Exercise is an important facet of behavior that enhances brain health and function. Increased expression of the plasticity molecule brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) as a response to exercise may be a central factor in exercise-derived benefits to brain function. In rodents, daily wheel-running exercise increases BDNF gene and protein levels in the hippocampus. However, in humans, exercise patterns are generally less rigorous, and rarely follow a daily consistency. The benefit to the brain of intermittent exercise is unknown, and the duration that exercise benefits endure after exercise has ended is unexplored. In this study, BDNF protein expression was used as an index of the hippocampal response to exercise. Both daily exercise and alternating days of exercise increased BDNF protein, and levels progressively increased with longer running duration, even after 3 months of daily exercise. Exercise on alternating days was as effective as daily exercise, even though exercise took place only on half as many days as in the daily regimen. In addition, BDNF protein remained elevated for several days after exercise ceased. Further, after prior exercise experience, a brief second exercise re-exposure insufficient to cause a BDNF change in nave animals, rapidly reinduced BDNF protein to levels normally requiring several weeks of exercise for induction. The protein reinduction occurred with an intervening &quot;rest&quot; period as long as 2 weeks. The rapid reinduction of BDNF by an exercise stimulation protocol that is normally subthreshold in nave animals suggests that exercise primes a molecular memory for BDNF induction. These findings are clinically important because they provide guidelines for optimizing the design of exercise and rehabilitation programs, in order to promote hippocampal function.
In the external plexiform layer (EPL) of the main olfactory bulb, apical dendrites of inhibitory granule cells form large numbers of synapses with mitral and tufted (M/T) cells, which regulate the spread of activity along the M/T cell dendrites. The EPL also contains intrinsic interneurons, the functions of which are unknown. In the present study, recordings were obtained from cell bodies in the EPL of mouse olfactory bulb slices. Biocytin-filling confirmed that the recorded cells included interneurons, tufted cells, and astrocytes. The interneurons had fine, varicose dendrites, and those located superficially bridged the EPL space below several adjacent glomeruli. Interneuron activity was characterized by high frequency spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potential/currents that were blocked by the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA)/kainate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and largely eliminated by the voltage-sensitive Na+ channel blocker, tetrodotoxin. Interneuron activity differed markedly from that of tufted cells, which usually exhibited spontaneous action potential bursts. The interneurons produced few action potentials spontaneously, but often produced them in response to depolarization and/or olfactory nerve (ON) stimulation. The responses to depolarization resembled responses of late- and fast-spiking interneurons found in other cortical regions. The latency and variability of the ON-evoked responses were indicative of polysynaptic input. Interneurons expressing green fluorescent protein under control of the mouse glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 promoter exhibited identical properties, providing evidence that the EPL interneurons are GABAergic. Together, these results suggest that EPL interneurons are excited by M/T cells via AMPA/kainate receptors and may in turn inhibit M/T cells within spatial domains that are topographically related to several adjacent glomeruli.
Lack of regeneration in the CNS has been attributed to many causes, including the presence of inhibitory molecules such as chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs). However, little is known about the contribution of CSPGs to regeneration failure in vivo, in particular at the dorsal root entry zone (DREZ), a unique CNS region that blocks regeneration of sensory fibers following dorsal root injury without glial scar formation. The goal of the present study was to evaluate the presence, regulation, and cellular identity of the proteoglycans Brevican, Neurocan, Versican V1 and Versican V2 in the DREZ using CSPG-specific antibodies and nucleic acid probes. Brevican and Versican V2 synthesized before the lesion were still present at high levels in the extracellular matrix of the DREZ several weeks after injury. In addition, Brevican was transiently expressed by reactive oligodendrocytes, and by a subset of astrocytes thereafter. Versican V2 mRNA appeared in NG2-positive cells with the morphology of oligodendrocyte precursor cells. Neurocan and Versican V1 levels were low before injury, and appeared in nestin-positive astrocytes and in NG2-positive cells, respectively, following lesion. Versican V1, but not V2, was also transiently increased in the peripheral dorsal root post-lesion. This is the first thorough description of the expression and cell association of individual proteoglycans following dorsal root lesion. It demonstrates that the proteoglycans Brevican, Neurocan, Versican V1, and Versican V2 are abundant in the DREZ at the time regenerating sensory fibers reach the PNS/CNS border and may therefore participate in growth-inhibition in this region.
Analysis of mice with targeted disruptions of fosB or the gene encoding dopamine beta-hydroxylase suggests that FosB and adrenergic signaling play critical roles in maternal nurturing behavior. The majority of neonates born to null females from either mutation fail to thrive, and virgin mutant females of both lines exhibit impaired pup retrieval. Considering whether FosB and adrenergic signaling might share a signaling pathway important for maternal behavior, we examined the role of a potential intermediary, cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB). Here we report that approximately 40% of neonates (all heterozygous) born to mice lacking the major isoforms of CREB (Creb-alphaDelta-/-) died within several days of birth. In contrast, heterozygotes born to Creb-alphaDelta+/- females thrived. Cross-fostering demonstrated that neonates born to Creb-alphaDelta(-/dagger/-) females thrived when reared by wild-type females, and that Creb-alphaDelta-/- females were capable of rearing neonates whose maternal care was initiated by wild-type females. Further, virgin Creb-alphaDelta-/- females were deficient in pup retrieval despite exhibiting normal investigation of pups and of novel objects. No maternal behavior phenotype was present in mice with a null mutation of the cyclic AMP response element modulator (Crem) gene. Interestingly, the number of cells immunostaining for phospho-CREB (on Ser(133)) in the medial preoptic area of the hypothalamus, a key region for the expression of maternal behavior, increased nearly three-fold in wild-type mice following exposure to pups but not to novel objects. On the other hand, basal expression and induction of FosB in response to pup exposure appeared to be independent of CREB because levels were equivalent between wild-type and Creb-alphaDelta-/- females. These results implicate CREB in maternal nurturing behavior and suggest that CREB is not critical for expression or induction of FosB in adult virgin female mice.
We recently demonstrated an increase in spinal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) excitatory amino acids (EAAs) in morphine-tolerant rats after morphine challenge. The present study examined whether co-infusion of the glucocorticoid dexamethasone (DEX) co-infusion inhibited morphine tolerance and the morphine challenge-induced EAAs increase after long-term morphine infusion. Intrathecal (i.t.) catheters and one microdialysis probe were implanted to male Wistar rats. Rats were divided into four groups: i.t. morphine (15 microg/h), saline (1 microl/h), DEX (2 microg/h), or DEX (2 microg/h) plus morphine (15 microg/h) infusion for 5 days. Tail-flick responses were examined before drug infusion and daily after the start of infusion for 5 days. Moreover, on day 5 after morphine challenge (50 microg, i.t.), CSF EAAs was also measured. Rat spinal cords were removed on day 5, and prepared for Western blot analysis of different glutamate transporters (GTs). The AD50 (analgesic dose) on day 5 was 1.33 microg in saline-infused rats, 83.84 microg in morphine-tolerant rats, and 10.15 microg in DEX plus morphine co-infused rats. Single DEX (2 microg, i.t.) injection did not enhance morphine's antinociceptive effect in either nave or morphine-tolerant rats. No difference in CSF EAA level was observed in all groups between baseline (before drug infusion) and on day 5 after tolerance developed. Surprisingly, on day 5, after morphine challenge, an increase in glutamate and aspartate (284+/-47% and 201+/-18% of basal) concentration was observed, and morphine lost its antinociceptive effect (maximum percent effect, MPE = 41+/-12%), whereas DEX/morphine co-infusion inhibited morphine-evoked EAA increase with a MPE = 97+/-2%. DEX co-infusion prevented the downregulation of glial glutamate transporters (GLAST (Glu-Asp transporter) and GLT-1 (Glu transporter-1)), but not the neuronal GT EAAC1 (excitatory amino acid carrier). Upregulation of GLT-1 was also observed (204+/-20% of basal). DEX co-infusion inhibits the morphine-challenge induced EAA increase and prevents the loss of morphine's antinociceptive effect after long-term morphine infusion.
Pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF) protects immature cerebellar granule cell neurons (CGCs) against apoptosis induced by K+ and serum deprivation. However, the precise mechanism of this protection remains unknown. We recently reported that the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) is activated in PEDF-treated CGCs. Although it is well known that NF-kappaB blocks apoptotic cell death through the induction of pro-survival factors, the effects of PEDF on the expression of these factors are not fully understood. In this study, we employed the use of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction to analyze the gene expression of certain pro-survival genes and found that genes such as c-IAP1, c-IAP2, FLIPs, A1/Bfl-1 and Mn-SOD were induced in PEDF-treated neurons. On the other hand, no induction was observed of the pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family members Bax and Bid at any time from 3 to 24 h following PEDF addition. Furthermore, phosphorylation of cyclic AMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) and increment of nuclear cyclic AMP-response element (CRE)-like DNA binding were observed in PEDF-treated CGCs. The anti-apoptotic effect of PEDF was blocked by overexpression of dominant negative CREB or a mutated form of IkappaBalpha. These results suggested that induction of both CRE- and NF-kappaB-dependent genes is required for the observed neuroprotective effects of PEDF on CGCs.
Oncostatin M (OSM), a member of interleukin-6 family cytokines, contributes to the development of nociceptive sensory neurons. However, little is known about the role of OSM in dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) of adult mice after peripheral inflammation. In the present study, we showed that OSM mRNA was highly expressed in the inflamed skin during acute inflammation induced by complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA), while the expression of oncostatin M receptor (OSMR) did not change in the ipsilateral DRG. Although peripheral inflammation induced significant increases in the number of neurons with phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (p-ERK) and phosphorylated p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p-p38) in ipsilateral DRGs, OSMR-positive neurons exhibited neither p-ERK nor p-p38. In addition, we found significant increases in the number of neurons with phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (p-STAT3) and phosphorylated cAMP-responsive element binding protein (p-CREB) in the ipsilateral DRGs. Interestingly, OSMR-positive neurons with p-STAT3 and p-CREB were significantly increased after peripheral inflammation. Thus, our results suggest that acute inflammation induce the phosphorylations of several signal molecules, including ERK, p38, cAMP-responsive element binding protein, and STAT3. Among them, the up-regulation of p-STAT3 and p-CREB may be induced possibly through OSMR.
Physiological doses of 17-beta Estradiol (E2) rapidly induce mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation in a variety of cell culture and tissue explant preparations. Rapid MAPK phosphorylation has been implicated as a critical step in estrogen's effects on neuronal activity, gene transcription and neuroprotection. The present series of in vivo experiments were designed to determine whether acute administration of estrogen rapidly increased extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) 2 phosphorylation. Brains were harvested 20 min after a single i.p. injection of 15 microg/kg of 17-beta or 17-alpha estradiol. Twelve brain structures were micro-dissected, homogenized and processed for Western blotting. E2-treated rats exhibited a statistically significant increase in ERK2 phosphorylation in the diagonal band of Broca, rostral nucleus accumbens, paraventricular nucleus, arcuate nucleus and anteromedial visual cortex. Administration of the same dose of 17-alpha estradiol did not enhance ERK phosphorylation in any of the brain regions examined. The in vivo data presented here extend previously published in vitro data indicating that E2 rapidly activates MAPK in primary neuronal cultures, explants and cell lines. These data also indicate that MAPK activation is a potential mediator of estrogens effects in some but not all estrogen receptor containing regions of the brain.
Neuronal migration disorders (NMDs) are often associated with medically intractable epilepsy. In utero injection of methylazoxymethanol acetate into pregnant rats gives rise to dysplastic cell clusters (&quot;heterotopia&quot;) in hippocampus (and nearby regions), providing an animal model of NMD. In the present study, we have examined the structural and functional integration of hippocampal heterotopic cells into circuits that link the heterotopia with surrounding &quot;normal&quot; brain. Bi-directional morphological connectivity between the heterotopia and hippocampus/neocortex was demonstrated using the neurotracer, biotinylated dextran amine. Single cell recordings in hippocampal slices showed that heterotopia neurons form functional connections with the surrounding hippocampus and neocortex. However, simultaneous field recordings from the CA1 heterotopia, normotopic hippocampus, and neocortex indicated that epileptiform discharges (spontaneous events seen in slices bathed with high [K+]o and bicuculline) were rarely initiated in the heterotopia (although the heterotopia was capable of generating epileptiform discharges independently of normal brain regions). Further, in most of the experiments, the aberrant connectivity provided by CA1 heterotopia failed to function as a &quot;bridge&quot; for epileptiform discharges to propagate directly from low-threshold hippocampus to neocortex. These data do not support the hypothesis that NMDs (heterotopic cell populations) serve as a focus and/or trigger for epileptiform activity, and/or facilitate propagation of epileptiform events.
Dopamine agonists with a high affinity for D2 and D3 receptors have a biphasic effect on rodent locomotion, inducing hypolocomotion at low doses and hyperlocomotion at higher doses. Controversy surrounds the role of the D3 receptor in mediating the hypolocomotor response to low agonist doses. This study examines patterns of neuronal activation induced by varying doses of the D2/D3 receptor agonist quinelorane using blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI), and compares them with corresponding behavioural responses. Quinelorane (3 microg/kg) induced hypolocomotion in rats naive to the testing environment, and in phMRI experiments increased neuronal activity within the anterior olfactory nuclei, nucleus accumbens and islets of Calleja, regions containing a high density of D3 receptors. A 30 microg/kg dose of quinelorane resulted in biphasic locomotor effects, with initial hypolocomotion followed by sustained hyperlocomotion. phMRI indicated that this higher dose increased cerebral activity within limbic and olfactory regions, as did the lower drug dose, but induced additional activation in the caudate-putamen and globus pallidus, areas dense in D2 receptors but containing few D3 receptors. The more restricted pattern of activation at low agonist doses and close temporal relationship between behavioural and BOLD signal responses to quinelorane suggest that those nuclei most dense in D3 receptors play a key role in mediating the hypolocomotor effects of quinelorane. However, the presence of D3 receptors in activated brain regions may be coincidental, and further studies are required to show definitively which class of receptors mediates agonist-induced hypolocomotion. In contrast, the activation of D2 receptors within the striatum appears necessary for quinelorane-induced hyperlocomotion.
The globus pallidus receives its major glutamatergic input from the subthalamic nucleus and subthalamic nucleus neurons synthesize CB1 cannabinoid receptors. The hypothesis of the present work was that CB1 receptors are localized in terminals of subthalamo-pallidal glutamatergic axons and that their activation leads to presynaptic modulation of neurotransmission between these axons and globus pallidus neurons. Patch-clamp studies were carried out on oblique-sagittal mouse brain slices. The subthalamic nucleus was stimulated electrically and the resulting excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were recorded in globus pallidus neurons. The mixed CB1/CB2 receptor agonist R(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(morpholinyl)methyl]pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-yl]-(1-naphthalenyl)methanone mesylate (WIN55212-2; 3 x 10(-7) M) had no effect on EPSCs. WIN55212-2 (10(-5) M) decreased the amplitude of EPSCs by 44+/-8%. The inhibition by WIN55212-2 (10(-5) M) was prevented by the CB1 antagonist N-piperidino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-3-pyrazolecarboxamide (10(-6) M). WIN55212-2 (10(-5) M) did not change the amplitude of spontaneous EPSCs (sEPSCs) recorded in globus pallidus neurons but lowered their frequency. Moreover, WIN55212-2 (10(-5) M) had no effect on currents elicited by direct activation of postsynaptic receptors on globus pallidus neurons by glutamate (10(-3) M) ejected from a pipette. In a final series of experiments, the firing of subthalamic nucleus neurons was recorded; WIN55212-2 (10(-5) M) did not change the firing of these neurons. The results show that activation of CB1 receptors inhibits glutamatergic neurotransmission between the subthalamic nucleus and the globus pallidus. Lack of effect of cannabinoids on the amplitude of sEPSCs and on currents evoked by direct stimulation of postsynaptic glutamate receptors indicates that the mechanism is presynaptic inhibition of glutamate release from axon terminals. Cannabinoids seem to act preferentially presynaptically: in contrast to their action on axon terminals, they have no effect on somadendritic receptors regulating firing rate. Cannabinoids elicit catalepsy in vivo. The observed inhibition of glutamatergic neurotransmission in the globus pallidus would favor catalepsy.
Rats maintained under restricted feeding schedules (RFS) develop food-anticipatory activity and entrainment of physiological parameters. Food entrainment is independent of the suprachiasmatic nucleus and depends on food-entrainable oscillators (FEO). Restricted feeding schedules lead animals toward a catabolic state and to increase their food driven motivation, suggesting that in this process metabolic- and reward-related mechanisms are implicated. This study explored if motivation driven by a palatable meal is sufficient to produce food-entrainment. To address this question, we evaluated whether daily fixed access to a highly palatable meal entrained (PME) locomotor activity, serum glucose and free fatty acids concentrations in rats maintained without food deprivation. The entrained response of PME rats was compared with rats entrained to RFS. In a second experiment, we used c-Fos-IR to identify structures in the central nervous system involved with PME. Rats showed anticipatory activity to a daily palatable meal, with a lower intensity than rats entrained to RFS. Anticipatory activity persisted at least for four cycles after interrupting palatable meal, suggesting that this persistence depends on an endogenous oscillator. Glucose and free fatty acids were not entrained in PME rats. c-Fos expression in limbic system nuclei was in phase with PME time, but not in the hypothalamus. Results suggest 1) that food deprivation, i.e. a catabolic state is not necessary for the expression of anticipatory activity; 2) that an increase in the motivational state due to taste and/or nutritional contents of palatable meal is sufficient to entrain behavior; and 3) that structures in the limbic system are involved in this entrainment process. The present study indicates that metabolic and motivational mechanisms are involved in food entrainment, and suggests that the FEO may be a multi-oscillatory system distributed over different regulatory systems in the brain.
The glucocorticoid-induced receptor (GIR) is an orphan G-protein-coupled receptor awaiting pharmacological characterization. GIR was originally identified in murine thymoma cells, and shows a widespread, yet not completely complementary distribution in mouse and human brain. Expression of the mouse GIR gene is modulated by dexamethasone in the brain and periphery, suggesting that GIR function is directly responsive to glucocorticoid signals. The rat GIR was cloned from rat prefrontal cortex by our group and was shown to be up-regulated following chronic amphetamine. The physiological role of GIR in the rat is not known at present. In order to gain a clearer understanding of the potential functions of GIR in the rat, we performed a detailed mapping of GIR mRNA expression in the rat brain. GIR mRNA showed widespread distribution in forebrain limbic and thalamic structures, and a more restricted distribution in hindbrain areas such as the spinal trigeminal nucleus and the median raphe nucleus. Areas with moderate to high levels of GIR include olfactory regions such as the nucleus of olfactory tract, hippocampus, various thalamic nuclei, cortical layers, and some hypothalamic nuclei. In comparison with previous studies, significant regional differences exist in GIR distribution in mouse and rat brain, particularly in the thalamus, striatum and in hippocampus at a cellular level. Overall, the expression of GIR in rat brain more closely approaches that seen previously in human than mouse, suggesting that rat models may be more informative for understanding the role of GIR in glucocorticoid physiology and glucocorticoid-related disease states. GIR mRNA distribution in the rat indicates a potential role of this receptor in the control of feeding and ingestive behavior, regulation of stress and emotional behavior, learning and memory, and, drug reinforcement and reward.
Although the importance of neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the regulation of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) and reproduction has been highlighted in recent years, the neuroanatomical substrate within which these substances might interact has not been fully elucidated. Present work was undertaken with a view to define the anatomical-physiological correlates underlying the role exercised by NPY in the regulation of GnRH in the forebrain of the teleost Clarias batrachus. Application of double immunocytochemistry revealed close associations as well as colocalizations of the two peptides in the olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs), olfactory nerve fibers and their terminals in the glomeruli, ganglion cells of nervus terminalis, medial olfactory tract, fibers in the area ventralis telencephali/pars supracommissuralis and cells as well as fibers in the pituitary. NPY containing axons were found to terminate in the vicinity of GnRH cells in the pituitary with light as well as electron microscopy. Double immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated gold particles for NPY and GnRH colocalized on the membrane and in dense core of the secretory granules in the cells distributed in all components of the pituitary gland. To assess the physiological implication of these observations, NPY was injected via the intracranial route and the response of GnRH immunoreactive system was evaluated by relative quantitative morphometry as well as high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis. Two hours following NPY (20 ng/g body weight) administration, a dramatic increase was observed in the GnRH immunoreactivity in the ORNs, in the fibers of the olfactory bulb (163%) and medial olfactory tract (351%). High performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-mass spectrometric analysis confirmed the immunocytochemical data. Significant rise in the salmon GnRH (sGnRH)-like peptide content was observed in the olfactory organ (194.23%), olfactory bulb (146.64%), telencephalon+preoptic area (214.10%) and the pituitary (136.72%) of the NPY-treated fish. However, GnRH in the hypothalamus was below detection limit in the control as well as NPY-treated fish. Present results suggest the involvement of NPY in the up-regulation of sGnRH containing system at different level of neuraxis extending from the olfactory epithelium to the pituitary in the forebrain of C. batrachus.
The vestibule is the end organ devoted to sensing of head movements in space. To function properly, its mechano-receptors require the presence of a unique apical extracellular medium, the endolymph. Numerous studies have elucidated the mechanisms involved in the production and homeostasis of this unique medium and the responses of sensory cells to stimulation. However, anatomical constraints have prevented direct and simultaneous studies of their relationships. The aim of this study was the development of an in vitro model that would allow concomitant investigations on maturation and physiological properties of both the hair cells and their endolymphatic compartment. A three-dimensional (3D) culture of newborn rat utricles using an extracellular matrix sustaining 3D cellular growth was developed during 3, 6, or 10 days in vitro (DIV). Using morphological and electrophysiological techniques, we describe the de novo formation of a cyst. It was composed of the sensory epithelium and non-sensory cells-canalar, dark and intermediate cells-that polarized so that their apical surface faced its lumen. During the time of culture, the utricular potential (UP) was steady (-1.1+/-5.0 mV) in oxygenated condition, while in anoxia, the UP significantly decreased to -8.4+/-1.0 mV at 8 DIV. Over the same period, the K+ concentration in the cyst increased up to 86.1+/-33.9 mM (versus 5.6+/-1.5 mM in the bath). These observations indicated that the mechanisms generating the UP and the K-secretory activity were functional at this stage. Concomitantly, the hair cells acquired mature and functional properties: the type 1 and type 2 phenotypes, a mean resting membrane potential of -68.1+/-4.6 mV and typical electrophysiological responses. This preparation provides a powerful means to simultaneous access the hair cells and their endolymphatic compartment, with the possibility to use multi-technical approaches to investigate their interdependent relationships.
The Na+ --Cl- --K+ isoform 1 (NKCC1) is a co-transporter that increases the intracellular concentration of chloride. NKCC1 plays a critical role in neuronal excitability and it has been recently suggested that it can contribute to hyperalgesic states by modulating the chloride concentration inside nociceptive neurons. In the spinal cord, trafficking of neurotransmitter receptors from the cytosol to the plasma membrane has been demonstrated to contribute to the development of hyperalgesia. However, it is unknown if trafficking of co-transporters can also occur in the nervous system or if it can be induced by painful stimulation. In this study, we have induced referred mechanical hyperalgesia in vivo by intracolonic instillation of capsaicin in mice. Using subcellular fractionation of proteins and cross-linking of membrane proteins we have observed that intracolonic capsaicin induced a 50% increase in NKCC1 in the plasma membrane of lumbosacral spinal cord 90 and 180 min after instillation, in parallel with a similar decrease in the cytosolic fraction. These effects returned to basal levels 6 h after capsaicin treatment. Intracolonic capsaicin also evoked a rapid (10 min) and transient phosphorylation of NKCC1, however, intracolonic saline did not produce significant changes in either NKCC1 trafficking or phosphorylation and none of the treatments induced any alterations of NKCC1 in the thoracic spinal cord. These results suggest that phosphorylation and recruitment of NKCC1 might play a role in referred mechanical hyperalgesia evoked by a painful visceral stimulus. The time course of the effects observed suggests that phosphorylation could contribute to the initial generation of hyperalgesia whereas trafficking could participate in the maintenance of hyperalgesic states observed at longer time points.
Previous studies demonstrated that nursing or intraoral infusion of certain components of mother's milk (e.g. sugars and fats) produces calming and opiate receptor-dependent analgesia in newborn rats and humans. However, the neural circuitry underlying such analgesia is unknown. The aim of the present study was to specify the central pathways by which taste stimuli engage neural antinociceptive mechanisms. For this purpose, midcollicular transactions were used to investigate the role of the forebrain in analgesia elicited by intraoral infusion of 0.2 M sucrose in neonatal rats. Sucrose-induced analgesia persisted, and was enhanced, following midcollicular transection, indicating that it did not require neural circuits confined to the forebrain. Fos immunohistochemistry was used to identify brainstem neurons activated by a brief (90 s) intraoral infusion of a small volume (90 microl, 0.2M) of sucrose or a salt solution (0.1 M ammonium chloride) in 10-day-old rat pups. Compared with control groups (intact, cannula, distilled water), both sucrose and ammonium chloride induced Fos expression in the rostral nucleus tractus solitarius, the first relay in the ascending gustatory pathway. Sucrose also elicited Fos expression in several brainstem areas associated with centrally mediated analgesia, including the periaqueductal gray and the nucleus raphe magnus. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that analgesia elicited by intraoral sucrose does not require involvement of the forebrain. Intraoral sucrose activates neurons in the periaqueductal gray and nucleus raphe magnus, two key brainstem sites critically involved in descending pain modulation.
Antenatal glucocorticoids are highly effective in preventing respiratory distress of premature babies but can induce physiological and behavioral disturbances in young infants as well as in animals. Therefore, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis of rat neonates, and the consequences on behavioral development of offspring have been studied after five antenatal injections of dexamethasone (DEX) or vehicle. DEX decreased offspring body weight at birth, and significantly delayed the normal growth for the first 3 weeks of life. This paralleled diminished behavioral performances measured on postnatal day 3 (righting reflex) and postnatal day 10 (grasping test). Circulating levels of adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) and corticosterone were significantly decreased on postnatal day 1 and this was related to a diminution of HPA axis activity shown by the decrease of central expression of corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA, immunoreactive content in paraventricular neurons (PVN) and in the median eminence endings were significantly decreased. On the other hand, expression of another secretagogue of ACTH, arginine vasopressin (AVP), was differently affected in the PVN parvocellular neurons of offspring of the DEX group since AVP mRNA increased whereas immunoreactive content of the PVN parvocellular neurons was lowered. Simultaneously, the co-production of AVP and CRH in PVN neurons was stimulated. This can support the view that antenatal DEX reached the fetus and produced some damage which did not parallel that induced by prenatal stress of the pregnant females, especially the low body weight of offspring. The harmful consequence of antenatal DEX treatment was not restrictively due to the blunting of the HPA axis but also to the low body weight, which disturbed behavioral performances for the first weeks of life and could participate in other disorders in adult life.
The mu opioid receptor plays an important role in mediating the actions of morphine and morphine-like drugs. Receptor binding and a wide range of pharmacological studies have proposed several mu receptor subtypes, but only one mu opioid receptor (Oprm) gene has been isolated. Like the mouse and rat, the human Oprm gene undergoes alternative splicing. In the present studies, we have identified and characterized six new splice variants from the human Oprm gene using a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction strategy, yielding a total of 10 human splice variants of the mu opioid receptor MOR-1. All the variants identified contained exons 1, 2 and 3, but differed from MOR-1 itself and each other by splicing downstream from exon 3, resulting in different amino acid sequences. Northern blot analysis demonstrated expression of the variant mRNAs. Receptor binding assays established that these variants belonged to the mu opioid receptor family with limited differences in mu opioid ligand affinities and selectivity. However, adenylyl cyclase and [35S]GTPgammaS binding assays revealed major differences in both potency and efficacy among these variants. The dissociation between binding affinity, potency and efficacy for the opioids among these variants may provide insights into the wide range of opioid responses among these agents observed clinically and opens new avenues in designing selective drugs based upon their efficacy and potency rather simple binding affinity.
The cingulate cortex is a functionally and morphologically heterogeneous cortical area comprising a number of interconnected subregions. To date, the exact anatomy of intracingulate connections has not been studied in detail. In the present study we aimed to determine the topographical and laminar characteristics of intrinsic cingulate connections in the rat, using the anterograde tracers Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin and biotinylated dextran amine. For assessment of these data we further refined and compared the existing cytoarchitectonic descriptions of the two major cingulate constituents, the anterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortices. The results of this study demonstrate that rostral areas, i.e. the infralimbic and prelimbic cortices and the rostral one third of the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex are primarily interconnected with each other and not with other cingulate areas. The caudal two thirds of the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex project to the caudal part of the ventral anterior cingulate cortex, whereas the entire ventral anterior cingulate cortex projects to only the mid-rostro-caudal part of the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex. Dense reciprocal connections exist between the remaining, i.e. the supracallosal parts of the anterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortices with a general rostro-caudal topography, in the sense that the rostral part of the anterior cingulate cortex and caudal part of the retrosplenial cortex are interconnected and the same holds true for the caudal part of the anterior cingulate cortex and rostral part of the retrosplenial cortex. This topographical pattern of intracingulate connections relates to the results of several functional studies, suggesting that specific cingulate functions depend on a number of interconnected cingulate subregions. Through their intricate associational connections, these subregions form functionally segregated networks.
Hyperammonemia impairs signal transduction associated to glutamate receptors and phosphorylation of some neuronal proteins including microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP-2). The aim of this work was to analyze the effects of hyperammonemia on modulation of MAP-2 phosphorylation by metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in rat cerebellar neurons in culture. Hyperammonemia increased basal phosphorylation of MAP-2 (180%). Activation of mGluRs 1 and 5 with (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) increased MAP-2 phosphorylation (170%) in control neurons but not in neurons exposed to ammonia. Activation of mGluRs 2 and 3 with (2S,3S,4S)-CCG/(2S, 1'S,2'S)-2-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine increased slightly (25%) MAP-2 phosphorylation in neurons exposed to ammonia or not. Activation of mGluR5 with (+/-)-trans-azetidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid increased MAP-2 phosphorylation (24%) in control neurons but decreased it by 56% in neurons exposed to ammonia. Activation of mGluR1 using 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine and DHPG increased MAP-2 phosphorylation 183% in control neurons but only 89% in neurons exposed to ammonia. In control neurons mGluR1 activation greatly increases phosphorylation of MAP-2, while activation of mGluRs 5, 2 or 3 increased it slightly. Taken together, hyperammonemia reduces the increase in MAP-2 phosphorylation induced by mGluR1activation. Moreover, in neurons exposed to ammonia activation of mGluR5 reduces MAP-2 phosphorylation. These effects reflect significant alterations in signal transduction associated to mGluR1 and mGluR5 in hyperammonemia that may contribute to altered glutamatergic neurotransmission and to the neurological alterations in hyperammonemia and hepatic encephalopathy.
Neurons of the rat supraoptic nucleus (SON) express glycine receptors (GlyRs), which are implicated in the osmoregulation of neuronal activity. The endogenous agonist of the receptors has been postulated to be taurine, shown to be released from astrocytes. We here provide additional pieces of evidence supporting the absence of functional glycinergic synapses in the SON. First, we show that blockade of GlyRs with strychnine has no effect on either the amplitude or frequency of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents recorded in SON neurons, whereas they were all suppressed by the GABA(A) antagonist gabazine. Then, double immunostaining of sections with presynaptic markers and either GlyR or GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) antibodies indicates that, in contrast with GABA(A)Rs, most GlyR membrane clusters are not localized facing presynaptic terminals, indicative of their extrasynaptic localization. Moreover, we found a striking anatomical association between SON GlyR clusters and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astroglial processes, which contain high levels of taurine. This type of correlation is specific to GlyRs, since GABA(A)R clusters show no association with GFAP-positive structures. These results substantiate and strengthen the concept of extrasynaptic GlyRs mediating a paracrine communication between astrocytes and neurons in the SON.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a neurotransmitter of the autonomic nerves in the urogenital tract, in particular the release of NO in the cavernous tissue is of importance for maintaining erection. However, the regulation of NO formation in neurons of the corpus cavernosum is poorly understood. Here, we report, that upon electrical stimulation of isolated rabbit corpus cavernosum, NO/NO(2-) was formed and released in a reproducible fashion. The NO synthase inhibitor N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester decreased the amount of NO/NO(2-) released to 50+/-18% (P&lt;0.05). The neurotoxin tetrodotoxin diminished the nerve-induced release of NO/NO(2-), to 35+/-10% (P&lt;0.001). Blockage of the cholinergic and noradrenergic pathways by application of scopolamine and guanethidin (both 10(-5) M) did not alter the basal or nerve-evoked formation of NO/NO(2-). We also applied modulators of the soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC)/cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) pathway to study if and to what extent cGMP might affect the release of NO from the erectile tissue. In the presence of the cGMP analog 8-Br-cGMP (10(-4) M), and, the sGC stimulator 3-(5'-hydroxymethyl-2'-furyl)-1-benzylindazole (10(-4) M), the release of NO/NO(2-) was increased to 385+/-120% (P&lt;0.05) and 282+/-78% (P&lt;0.05), respectively. The effect of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor zaprinast (10(-4) M), was not significant (209+/-53%, n.s). In contrast, inhibition of sGC by 1-H-[1,2,4]oxadiazole[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (10(-5) M) decreased the release of NO/NO(2-) to 64+/-14% (P&lt;0.05). Our results suggest that NO/NO(2-) is released by nitrergic neurons within the rabbit corpus cavernosum and that the release is subject to modulation by the sGC/cGMP pathway, but not to modulation by acetylcholine or noradrenaline.
Our previous studies have shown that intracerebral administration of endotoxin, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), induces selective white matter injury and hypomyelination in the neonatal rat brain and that the LPS-induced brain injury is associated with activation of microglia. To test the hypothesis that inhibition of microglial activation may protect against LPS-induced white matter injury, we examined roles of minocycline, a putative suppressor of microglial activation, on LPS-induced brain injury in the neonatal rat. A stereotactic intracerebral injection of LPS (1 mg/kg) was performed in postnatal day 5 Sprague-Dawley rats and control rats were injected with sterile saline. Minocycline (45 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally 12 h before and immediately after LPS injection and then every 24 h for 3 days. Inflammatory responses, activation of microglia and brain injury were examined 1 and 3 days after LPS injection. LPS injection resulted in brain injury in selective brain areas, including bilateral ventricular enlargement, cell death at the sub- and periventricular areas, loss of O4+ and O1+ oligodendrocyte (OL) immunoreactivity and hypomyelination, as indicated by decreased myelin basic protein immunostaining, in the neonatal rat brain. Minocycline administration significantly attenuated LPS-induced brain injury in these rat brains. The protective effect of minocycline was associated with suppressed microglial activation as indicated by the decreased number of activated microglial cells following LPS stimulation and with consequently decreased elevation of interleukin 1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha concentrations induced by LPS and a reduced number of inducible nitric oxide synthase expressing cells. Protection of minocycline was also linked with the reduction in LPS-induced oxidative stress, as indicated by 4-hydroxynonenal positive OLs. The overall results suggest that reduction in microglial activation may protect the neonatal brain from LPS-induced white matter injury and inhibition of microglial activation might be an effective approach for the therapeutic treatment of infection-induced white matter injury.
It is well documented that neurosteroids administered during the neonatal period influence the development of several brain systems. In our previous study, pregnenolone administered to rats during the neonatal period altered adenosinergic and dopaminergic functions in the striatum and cerebral cortex. The present study examined the effects of the treatment with pregnenolone and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) from the postnatal day (P) 3-P7 on synapsin I (a marker for presynaptic terminals) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP: a marker for astroglia) levels in the hippocampus of Sprague-Dawley rats at 3 and 7 weeks of age. In addition, neuropeptide Y and dynorphin A immunoreactivity was measured. The administration of pregnenolone and DHEA to neonatal rats significantly altered the expression of synapsin I in the dentate gyrus and CA3 region at post-puberty but not at pre-puberty. A significantly greater expression of GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes or processes was demonstrated in the pregnenolone- and DHEA-treated groups at both pre-puberty and post-puberty. A significant increase in the number and size of GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes and in the extension of arborization was seen in the overall hippocampus. The number of neuropeptide Y-positive cells in the hilus region was also significantly increased in the neurosteroid-treated group at post-puberty. No differences were detected in dynorphin A immunoreactivity among the experimental groups. These results of this study suggest that pregnenolone and DHEA play an important role in the development of hippocampus.
The number and distribution of spines along apical shafts of rapid-Golgi-stained layer V pyramidal cells from visual, motor and somatosensory cortical areas were analyzed in control and movement-restricted (beginning at 20 days old) Wistar rats killed at 30, 40, 80 and 120 days of age (experiment A). In other group of rats, spine density was analyzed when restriction initiates on day 40 and the animals were killed at 50, 60 and 80 days postpartum, or after restriction starting on day 80 and killed at 120 days of age (experiment B). It has been found that the restriction of movements significantly reduces the total number of spines on apical shafts in the three cortical areas, when this condition starts at 20, 40 or 80 days without changing the overall distribution of spines. Also present findings indicate that the effects of movements restriction are attenuated when they were concurrent with maturational brain processes (20-40 days) than when they occurred later in life. The question remains open of which part of the measured reduction on the number of spines is due to the immobilization and which to the stress associated with this maneuver.
Neurodegenerative disorders are characterized by progressive loss of specific neurons in the central nervous system. Although they have different etiologies and clinical manifestations, most of them share similar histopathologic characteristics such as the presence of inclusion bodies in both neurons and glial cells, which represent intracellular aggregation of misfolded or aberrant proteins. In Parkinson's disease, formation of inclusion bodies has been associated with the aggresome-related process and consequently with the centrosome. However, the significance of the centrosome in the neurodegenerative process remains obscure. In the present study, the morphological and functional changes in the centrosome induced by rotenone, a common insecticide used to produce experimental Parkinsonism, were examined both in vitro and in vivo. Aggregation of gamma-tubulin protein, which is a component of the centrosome matrix and recently identified in Lewy bodies of Parkinson's disease, was observed in primary cultures of mesencephalic cells treated with rotenone. Rotenone-treated neurons and astrocytes showed enlarged and multiple centrosomes. These centrosomes also displayed multiple aggregates of alpha-synuclein protein. Neurons with disorganized centrosomes exhibited neurite retraction and microtubule destabilization, and astrocytes showed disturbances of mitotic spindles. The Golgi apparatus, which is closely related to the centrosome, was dispersed in both rotenone-treated neuronal cells and the substantia nigra of rotenone-treated rats. Our findings suggested that recruitment of abnormal proteins in the centrosome contributed to the formation of inclusion bodies, and that rotenone markedly affected the structure and function of the centrosome with consequent induction of cytoskeleton disturbances, disassembly of the Golgi apparatus and collapse of neuronal cells.
Shc family of adaptor molecules has been demonstrated to play an important role during the transition from proliferating neural stem cells to postmitotic neurons. Previous studies from our group demonstrated a progressive decrease of ShcA levels occurring in coincidence with the end of embryonic neurogenesis and neuronal maturation, being ShcB and ShcC the major Shc molecules expressed in the mature brain. A growing body of evidence indicates that ShcB and ShcC are neuronal specific molecules exerting important roles in neuronal survival and phenotypic stability thus becoming potential attracting target molecules for development of drugs for interfering with brain demises. Here, we examine the expression pattern of ShcB and ShcC in neuronal populations composing the adult central and peripheral nervous system, in order to better elucidate their roles in vivo. We found a heterogeneous and peculiar presence and subcellular localization of ShcB and ShcC in specific neuronal populations, enlightening a potential specific requirement of these two molecules in the survival/maintenance of defined neuronal subtypes.
The central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) plays an important role both in stimulus-reward learning for the reinforcing effects of drugs of abuse and in environmental condition-induced analgesia. Both of these two CeA functions involve the opioid system within the CeA. However, the pharmacological profiles of its opioid receptor system have not been fully studied and the synaptic actions of opioid receptors in the CeA are largely unknown. In this study with whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings in brain slices in vitro, we examined actions of opioid agonists on glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in CeA neurons. Opioid peptide methionine-enkephalin (ME; 10 microM) produced a significant inhibition (38%) in the amplitude of evoked EPSCs, an action mimicked by the mu-opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala(2),N-MePhe(4),Gly-ol(5)]-enkephalin (DAMGO; 1 microM, 44%). Both effects of ME and DAMGO were abolished by the mu receptor antagonist CTAP (1 microM), suggesting a mu receptor-mediated effect. Neither delta-opioid receptor agonist [D-Pen(2),D-Pen(5)]-enkephalin (1 microM) nor kappa-opioid receptor agonist U69593 (300 nM) had any effect on the glutamate EPSC. ME significantly increased the paired-pulse ratio of the evoked EPSCs and decreased the frequency of miniature EPSCs without altering the amplitude of miniature EPSCs. Furthermore, the mu-opioid inhibition of the EPSC was blocked by 4-aminopyridine (4AP; 100 microM), a voltage-dependent potassium channel blocker, and by phospholipase A(2) inhibitors AACOCF(3) (10 microM) and quinacrine (10 microM). These results indicate that only the mu-opioid receptor is functionally present on presynaptic glutamatergic terminals in normal CeA neurons, and its activation reduces the probability of glutamate release through a signaling pathway involving phospholipase A(2) and the presynaptic, 4AP-sensitive potassium channel. This study provides evidence for the presynaptic regulation of glutamate synaptic transmission by mu-opioid receptors in CeA neurons.
Pluripotent hematopoietic cells from adult bone marrow may give rise not only to neurons, oligodendrocytes and astrocytes after transplantation into newborn brains, but also to neural stem cells (NSC). These NSC localize to both the ventricular epithelium and subventricular zone, persist in the transplanted brain, and may generate neurospheres 1 month after transplant, which after in vitro expansion differentiate into the different neural lineages. Furthermore, the bone marrow-derived NSC differentiate in vivo into functional oligodendrocytes and neurons following demyelinating lesions, thus, demonstrating the ability of adult bone marrow progenitors to generate self-renewing, functional neural stem cells, validating this approach as an alternative source of long-lasting neural stem cells with therapeutic implications in neurodegenerative diseases.
Adenosine is a neuromodulator that controls neurotransmitter release through inhibitory A1 and facilitatory A2A receptors. Although both adenosine receptor-mediated inhibition and facilitation of glutamate release have been observed, it is not clear whether both A1 and A2A receptors are located in the same glutamatergic nerve terminal or whether they are located on different populations of these terminals. Thus, we have tested if single pyramidal glutamatergic neurons from the hippocampus simultaneously expressed A1 and A2A receptor mRNA and if A1 and A2A receptors were co-localized in hippocampal glutamatergic nerve terminals. Single cell PCR analysis of visually identified pyramidal neurons revealed the simultaneous presence of A1 and A2A receptor mRNA in four out 16 pyramidal cells possessing glutamatergic markers but not GABAergic or astrocytic markers. Also, A1 and A2A receptor immunoreactivities were co-localized in 26 +/- 4% of nerve terminals labeled with antibodies against vesicular glutamate transporters type 1 or 2, i.e. glutamatergic nerve terminals. This indicates that glutamatergic neurons in the hippocampus co-express A1 and A2A receptors and that these two receptors are co-localized in a subset of glutamatergic nerve terminals.
In most parts of the peripheral nervous system galanin is expressed at very low levels. To further understand the functional role of galanin, a mouse overexpressing galanin under the platelet-derived growth factor-B was generated, and high levels of galanin expression were observed in several peripheral tissues and spinal cord. Thus, a large proportion of neurons in autonomic and sensory ganglia were galanin-positive, as were most spinal motor neurons. Strong galanin-like immunoreactivity was also seen in nerve terminals in the corresponding target tissues, including skin, blood vessels, sweat and salivary glands, motor end-plates and the gray matter of the spinal cord. In transgenic superior cervical ganglia around half of all neuron profiles expressed galanin mRNA but axotomy did not cause a further increase, even if mRNA levels were increased in individual neurons. In transgenic dorsal root ganglia galanin mRNA was detected in around two thirds of all neuron profiles, including large ones, and after axotomy the percentage of galanin neuron profiles was similar in overexpressing and wild type mice. Axotomy reduced the total number of DRG neurons less in overexpressing than in wild type mice, indicating a modest rescue effect. Aging by itself increased galanin expression in the superior cervical ganglion in wild type and transgenic mice, and in the latter also in preganglionic cholinergic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion. Galanin overexpressing mice showed an attenuated plasma extravasation, an increased pain response in the formalin test, and changes in muscle physiology, but did not differ from wild type mice in sudomotor function. These findings suggest that overexpressed galanin in some tissues of these mice can be released and via a receptor-mediated action influence pathophysiological processes.
The aim of this study was to determine whether the neurotrophins nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and neurotrophin (NT)-3 could act as endogenous target-derived trophic factors for erection-inducing, i.e. penis-projecting major pelvic ganglion (MPG) neurons, and/or penile sensory neurons in adult rat. This was accomplished by studying the expression of NT mRNAs in the penis and their cognate receptors in the MPG and dorsal root ganglia (DRGs), and the retrograde axonal transport of radioiodinated NTs injected into the corpora cavernosa. Northern hybridization showed that NGF, BDNF, and NT-3 mRNAs are expressed in the shaft of the penis. In situ hybridization combined with usage of the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold showed that TrkC and p75 receptors are expressed in penis-projecting neurons of the MPG whereas the mRNAs for TrkA and TrkB receptors were undetectable. However, all the NT receptor mRNAs were expressed in penile sensory neurons of sacral level 1 (S1) DRG. (125)I-NT-3 injected into the shaft of the penis was retrogradely transported into the MPG and S1 DRG, whereas radioiodinated NGF and BDNF were transported specifically into the S1 DRG, thus confirming the existence of functional NT receptors in these penile neurons. In conclusion, these data suggest that NT-3 may act as a target-derived neurotrophic factor for both erection-inducing and penile sensory neurons, whereas NGF and BDNF may be more important for the sensory innervation of the penis.
The command and control of limb movements by the cerebellar and reflex pathways are modeled by means of a circuit whose structure is deduced from functional constraints. One constraint is that fast limb movements must be accurate although they cannot be continuously controlled in closed loop by use of sensory signals. Thus, the pathways which process the motor orders must contain approximate inverse functions of the bio-mechanical functions of the limb and of the muscles. This can be achieved by means of parallel feedback loops, whose pattern turns out to be comparable to the anatomy of the cerebellar pathways. They contain neural networks able to anticipate the motor consequences of the motor orders, modeled by artificial neural networks whose connectivity is similar to that of the cerebellar cortex. These networks learn the direct biomechanical functions of the limbs and muscles by means of a supervised learning process. Teaching signals calculated from motor errors are sent to the learning sites, as, in the cerebellum, complex spikes issued from the inferior olive are conveyed to the Purkinje cells by climbing fibers. Learning rules are deduced by a differential calculation, as classical gradient rules, and they account for the long term depression which takes place in the dendritic arborizations of the Purkinje cells. Another constraint is that reflexes must not impede voluntary movements while remaining at any instant ready to oppose perturbations. Therefore, efferent copies of the motor orders are sent to the interneurones of the reflexes, where they cancel the sensory-motor consequences of the voluntary movements. After learning, the model is able to drive accurately, both in velocity and position, angular movements of a rod actuated by two pneumatic McKibben muscles. Reflexes comparable to the myotatic and tendinous reflexes, and stabilizing reactions comparable to the cerebellar sensory-motor reactions, reduce efficiently the effects of perturbing torques. These results allow to link the behavioral concepts of the equilibrium-point &quot;lambda model&quot; [J Motor Behav 18 (1986) 17] with anatomical and physiological features: gains of reflexes and sensori-motor reactions set the slope of the &quot;invariant characteristic,&quot; and efferent copies set the &quot;threshold of the stretch reflex.&quot; Thus, mathematical and physical laws account for the raison d'etre of the inhibitory nature of Purkinje cells and for the conspicuous anatomical pattern of the cerebellar pathways. These properties of these pathways allow to perform approximate inverse calculations after learning of direct functions, and insure also the coordination of voluntary and reflex motor orders.
Defensive rage behavior is a form of aggressive behavior occurring in nature in response to a threatening stimulus. It is also elicited by stimulation of the medial hypothalamus and midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) and mediated through specific neurotransmitter-receptor mechanisms within these regions. Since interleukin (IL)-2 modulates the release of neurotransmitters linked to aggression and rage, we sought to determine whether IL-2 microinjected into the medial hypothalamus would modulate defensive rage. Microinjections of relatively low doses of IL-2 into the medial hypothalamus significantly suppressed defensive rage elicited from the PAG in a dose-dependent manner and in the absence of signs of sickness behavior. Pre-treatment with an antibody directed against IL-2Ralpha or a GABA(A) receptor antagonist blocked IL-2's suppressive effects upon defensive rage. Since the suppression of defensive rage is also mediated by 5-HT(1) receptors in the medial hypothalamus, a 5-HT(1) antagonist was microinjected into this region as a pretreatment for IL-2; however, it did not block IL-2's suppressive effects. Immunocytochemical data provided anatomical support for these findings by revealing extensive labeling of IL-2Ralpha on neurons in the medial hypothalamus. IL-2 microinjected into the medial hypothalamus did not modulate predatory attack elicited from the lateral hypothalamus. In summary, we provide evidence for a novel role for IL-2 in the medial hypothalamus as a potent suppressor of defensive rage behavior. These effects are mediated through an IL-2-GABA(A) receptor mechanism.
Cognitive deficits persist in patients who survive traumatic brain injury (TBI). Lateral fluid percussion brain injury in the mouse, a model of human TBI, results in hippocampal-dependent cognitive impairment, similar to retrograde amnesia often associated with TBI. To identify potential substrates of the cognitive impairment, we evaluated regional neuronal loss, regional hippocampal excitability and inhibitory synaptic transmission. Design-based stereology demonstrated an approximate 40% loss of neurons through all subregions of the hippocampus following injury compared with sham. Input/output curves recorded in slices of injured brain demonstrated increased net synaptic efficacy in the dentate gyrus in concert with decreased net synaptic efficacy and excitatory postsynaptic potential-spike relationship in area CA1 compared with sham slices. Pharmacological agents modulating inhibitory transmission partially restored regional injury-induced alterations in net synaptic efficacy. Both evoked and spontaneous miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) recorded in surviving dentate granule neurons were smaller and less frequent in injured brains than in uninjured brains. Conversely, both evoked and spontaneous mIPSCs recorded in surviving area CA1 pyramidal neurons were larger in injured brains than in uninjured brains. Together, these alterations suggest that regional hippocampal function is altered in the injured brain. This study demonstrates for the first time that brain injury selectively disrupts hippocampal function by causing uniform neuronal loss, inhibitory synaptic dysfunction, and regional, but opposing, shifts in circuit excitability. These changes may contribute to the cognitive impairments that result from brain injury.
Subthalamic nucleus (STN) is a target of choice for the neurosurgical treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). The therapeutic effect of STN lesion in PD is classically ascribed to the rescue of physiological activity in the output structures of the basal ganglia, and little is known about the possible involvement of the striatum. In the present study, therefore, we electrophysiologically recorded in vitro single striatal neurons of DA-depleted rats unilaterally lesioned by 6-hydroxydopamine, treated or not with therapeutic doses of levodopa (l-DOPA), or with a consecutive ipsilateral STN lesion. We show that the beneficial motor effects produced in parkinsonian rats by STN lesion or l-DOPA therapy were paralleled by the normalization of overactive frequency and amplitude of striatal glutamate-mediated spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs). Since neither l-DOPA treatment nor STN lesion affected sEPSCs kinetic properties, the reversal of these abnormalities in striatal excitatory synaptic transmission can be attributable to the normalization of glutamate release.
Parkinson's disease is a disabling neurodegenerative disorder of unknown etiology characterized by a predominant and progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Recent findings suggest that impaired energy metabolism plays an important role in the pathogenesis of this disorder. The endogenously occurring guanidino compound creatine is a substrate for mitochondrial and cytosolic creatine kinases. Creatine supplementation improves the function of the creatine kinase/phosphocreatine system by increasing cellular creatine and phosphocreatine levels and the rate of ATP resynthesis. In addition, mitochondrial creatine kinase together with high cytoplasmic creatine levels inhibit mitochondrial permeability transition, a major step in early apoptosis. In the present study, we analyzed the effects of externally added creatine on the survival and morphology of dopaminergic neurons and also addressed its neuroprotective properties in primary cultures of E14 rat ventral mesencephalon. Chronic administration of creatine [5 mM] for 7 days significantly increased survival (by 1.32-fold) and soma size (by 1.12-fold) of dopaminergic neurons, while having no effect on other investigated morphological parameters. Most importantly, concurrent creatine exerted significant neuroprotection for dopaminergic neurons against neurotoxic insults induced by serum and glucose deprivation (P &lt; 0.01), 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium ion (MPP+) [15 microM] and 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) [90 microM] exposure (P &lt; 0.01). In addition, creatine treatment significantly protected dopaminergic cells facing MPP+-induced deterioration of neuronal morphology including overall process length/neuron (by 60%), number of branching points/neuron (by 80%) and area of influence per individual neuron (by 60%). Less pronounced effects on overall process length/neuron and number of branching points/neuron were also found after 6-OHDA exposure (P &lt; 0.05) and serum/glucose deprivation (P &lt; 0.05). In conclusion, our findings identify creatine as a rather potent natural survival- and neuroprotective factor for developing nigral dopaminergic neurons, which is of relevance for therapeutic approaches in Parkinson's disease and for the improvement of cell replacement strategies.
Several studies in different in vitro and in vivo models have demonstrated neuroprotective effects of nicotinic receptor agonists and indirect trophic actions of nicotine on brain are suggested from observations describing nicotine as a cognitive enhancer by increasing vigilance and improving learning and memory. While an increasing number of studies have given evidence of neuroprotective and neurotrophic effects of nicotine treatment, the molecular mechanism mediating the neurotrophic effects of nicotine are not fully understood. Previously in an analysis of several neurotrophic factors as possible mediators of nicotine-induced neuroprotection and/or neurotrophic effects we could reveal that an acute intermittent nicotine treatment increases fibroblast growth factor-2 mRNA and protein in several brain regions of rat brain. Even if other studies have demonstrated in different paradigms that nicotine administration modulates expression level of a variety of genes, there is still a lack of indication which candidate genes, involved in neuroprotective responses are modulated by nicotine. In the present work we have used a microarray assay to further find and characterize new genes responsive to acute intermittent nicotine treatment and linked to neuroprotection. Therefore, we used Rat Genome U34A Affymetrix GeneChip arrays containing about 8800 probe sets to characterize transcriptional responses in the rat parietal cortex after acute intermittent nicotine treatment. We focused our attention to expression of transcription factors and several of them were up- or down-regulated by nicotine, among these Nr4a1 (Nurr77), Egr-1 and Egr-2. In situ hybridization was used to corroborate the microarray data and to reveal further spatial and temporal patterns of these nicotine induced genes. Taken together the present results identified several novel candidate genes modified by acute intermittent nicotine exposure and as such potentially involved in neuroprotective-neurotrophic actions.
The extracellular concentration of glutamate is highly regulated by transporter proteins, due to its neurotoxic properties. Dysfunction or reverse activation of these transporters is related to the extracellular accumulation of excitatory amino acids and neuronal damage associated with ischemia and hypoglycemia. We have investigated by microdialysis the effects of the substrate and the non-substrate inhibitors of glutamate transporters, l-trans-2,4-pyrrolidine dicarboxylate (PDC) and DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate (DL-TBOA), respectively, on the extracellular levels of amino acids in the rat hippocampus in vivo. In addition, we have studied the effect of both inhibitors on neuronal damage after direct administration into the hippocampus and striatum. Electroencephalographic activity was recorded after the intrahippocampal infusion of DL-TBOA or PDC. Microdialysis administration of 500 microM DL-TBOA into the hippocampus increased 3.4- and nine-fold the extracellular levels of aspartate and glutamate, respectively. Upon stereotaxic administration it induced neuronal damage dose-dependently in CA1 and dentate gyrus, and convulsive behavior. Electroencephalographic recording showed the appearance of limbic seizures in the hippocampus after DL-TBOA infusion. In the striatum it also induced dose-dependent neuronal damage. These effects were prevented by the i.p. administration of the glutamate receptor antagonists (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydroxy-5H-dibenzo(a,d)cyclohepten-5,10-iminemaleate and 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(F)-quinoxaline. In contrast to dl-TBOA, PDC (500 microM) induced a more discrete elevation of excitatory amino acids levels (2.6- and three-fold in aspartate and glutamate, respectively), no neuronal damage or behavioral changes, and no alterations in electroencephalographic activity. The differential results obtained with DL-TBOA and PDC might be attributed to their distinct effects on the extracellular concentration of amino acids. Results are relevant to the understanding of the role of glutamate transporters in amino acid removal or release and the induction of excitotoxic cell death.
Current work emphasizes that peripheral tissue injury and inflammation results in a heightened sensitivity to subsequent noxious input (hyperalgesia) that is mediated in large part by the spinal synthesis and release of eicosanoids, in particular prostaglandins. Secreted phospholipase A(2)s (sPLA(2)s) form a class of structurally related enzymes that release arachidonic acid from cell membranes that is further processed to produce eicosanoids. We hypothesized that spinal sPLA(2)s may contribute to inflammation-induced hyperalgesia. Spinal cord tissue and cerebrospinal fluid were collected from rats for assessment of sPLA(2) protein expression and sPLA(2) activity. A basal sPLA(2) protein expression and activity was detected in spinal cord homogenate (87+/-17 pmol/min/mg), though no activity could be detected in cisternal cerebrospinal fluid, of naive rats. The sPLA(2) activity did not change in spinal cord tissue or cerebrospinal fluid assessed over 8 h after injection of carrageenan into the hind paw. However, the sPLA(2) activity observed in spinal cord homogenates was suppressed by addition of LY311727, a selective sPLA(2) inhibitor. To determine the role of this spinal sPLA(2) in hyperalgesia, we assessed the effects of lumbar intrathecal (IT) administration of LY311727 in rats with chronic IT catheters in three experimental models of hyperalgesia. IT LY311727 (3-30 microg) dose-dependently prevented intraplantar carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia and formalin-induced flinching, at doses that had no effect on motor function. IT LY311727 also suppressed thermal hyperalgesia induced by IT injection of substance P (30 nmol). Using in vivo spinal microdialysis, we found that IT injection of LY311727 attenuated prostaglandin E(2) release into spinal dialysate otherwise evoked by the IT injection of substance P. Taken together, this work points to a role for constitutive sPLA(2)s in spinal nociceptive processing.
The functional interactions of the neuropeptide galanin (GAL) occur through its binding to three G protein-coupled receptor subtypes: galanin receptor (GALR) 1, GALR2 and GALR3. Previously, we demonstrated that GALR1 mRNA expression was increased in the CA1 region of the hippocampus and discrete hypothalamic nuclei in galanin transgenic (GAL-tg) mice. This observation suggested a compensatory adjustment in cognate receptors in the face of chronic GAL exposure. To evaluate the molecular alterations to GALR2 and GALR3 in the forebrain of GAL overexpressing mice, we performed complementary quantitative, real-time PCR (qPCR), in situ hybridization, and immunohistochemistry in select forebrain regions of GAL-tg mice to characterize the neuronal distribution and magnitude of GAL mRNA and peptide expression and the consequences of genetically manipulating the neuropeptide GAL on the expression of GALR2 and GALR3 receptors. We found that GAL-tg mice displayed dramatic increases in GAL mRNA and peptide in the frontal cortex, posterior cortex, hippocampus, septal diagonal band complex, amygdala, piriform cortex, and olfactory bulb. Moreover, there was evidence for ectopic neuronal GAL expression in forebrain limbic regions that mediate cognitive and affective behaviors, including the piriform and entorhinal cortex and amygdala. Interestingly, regional qPCR analysis failed to reveal any changes in GALR2 or GALR3 expression in the GAL-tg mice, suggesting that, contrary to GALR1, these receptor genes are not under ligand-mediated regulatory control. The GAL-tg mouse model may provide a useful tool for the investigation of GAL ligand-receptor relationships and their role in normal cognitive and affective functions as well as in the onset of neurological disease.
Recent studies have shown a decrease in glial number and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) levels in the frontal and cingulate cortices of individuals with mood disorders and schizophrenia. In an attempt to verify and expand these findings we examined GFAP messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) levels in postmortem sections of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) from the Stanley Neuropathology Consortium (SNC). The consortium consists of 15 cases in each of four groups (schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, non-psychotic depression and unaffected controls). By in situ hybridization, we found higher levels of GFAP mRNA in white matter and at the pial surface as compared with gray matter levels in all cases. In the white matter of ACC we detected a significant effect of diagnosis (P&lt;0.04) with GFAP mRNA levels decreased in individuals with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder as compared with normal controls. In the gray matter there was a significant effect of layer (P&lt;0.01) with the highest levels of GFAP mRNA in layer VI in all groups. As in the white matter, the mean GFAP mRNA levels were decreased in individuals with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder as compared with the unaffected controls, however the difference failed to reach statistical significance. Thus, astrocytes positive for GFAP may contribute to the decrease in glial density previously described in subjects with major mental illness, however the relative contribution of astrocytes may vary with diagnosis.
In sheep, ewes at parturition are responsive to any newborn lamb, but within less than 1 h, mothers learn to recognize the odor of their lamb and restrict maternal care to their own offspring (maternal selectivity). In a first experiment, we investigated the long-term retention of maternal selectivity after various mother-young contact and separation durations. After 4 h of contact, 36 h of separation leads to a total loss of selectivity. Increasing contact duration to 7 days prior to this separation maintains selectivity. These data suggest that lamb memory after going through an initial labile state after parturition, is consolidated over time into a more stable long-term memory. Fos immunohistochemistry reveals that reintroduction of the lamb after 4 h of mother-young contact and 3 h of separation activates different maternal brain regions than reintroduction of the lamb after 7 days of mother-young contact and 3 h of separation. While the piriform cortex shows an enhanced activation at both times, a selective enhancement of activation is observed in the frontal medial and orbitofrontal cortices only after 7 days of mother-young contact. These data suggest that as consolidation occurs, the neurobiological networks sustaining lamb memory involve different structures.
This study aimed at investigating and influencing the basic electrophysiological functions and neuronal plasticity in the dentate gyrus in freely moving rats at several time-points after global ischemia. Although neuronal death was induced selectively in the cornu ammonis, subfield 1 (CA1)-region of the hippocampus, we found an additional loss of the population spike in the dentate gyrus after stimulation of the perforant path. Input/output-measurements revealed that as early as 1 day post-ischemia population spike generation in the granular cell layer is greatly decreased when compared with pre-ischemic values and to sham-operated animals, despite an apparently intact morphology of granular cells as evidenced by Nissl-staining. In contrast, the synaptic transmission (excitatory postsynaptic field potential) shows no significant difference when comparing values before and after ischemia and ischemic and sham-operated animals. Despite reduced output function, indicated by very small population spike amplitudes, long lasting potentiation can be induced 10 days after ischemia. Surprisingly, even &quot;silent&quot; populations of neurons, which appear selectively post-ischemia and do not show any evoked population spike, can be re-activated by tetanisation which is followed by a normal appearing long-term potentiation. However, this functional recovery seems to be partial and transient under current conditions: population spike-values do not reach pre-ischemic values and return to the low pre-tetanic baseline values the next day. Electrophysiological measurements ex vivo after ischemia indicate that the neuronal dysfunction in the dentate gyrus is not due to locally destroyed structures but that the activity of granular cells is merely suppressed only under in vivo conditions. In summary, global ischemia leaves a neighboring morphologically intact input area, functionally impaired. However, neuronal function can be partially regenerated by electrophysiological tetanic stimulation.
Distinct chemical codes are thought to reflect functional specificity in sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN). Although a number of chemical candidates have been identified including neurotransmitter-related, calcium-binding and other proteins, signal transduction proteins have been largely neglected. Not only might these chemicals allow discrimination of functionally unique chemical signatures, but they may also identify activated neurons. Immunoreactivity (ir) to phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (p-ERK1/2) was differentially located within the thoracic spinal cord depending upon which of three forms of killing was used: the only exception to this was the intermediolateral cell column (IML) which was consistently, densely labeled. The presence or absence of p-ERK1/2 in SPN (n=17,541) within the IML of the thoraco-lumbar spinal cord was determined in seven rats. SPN were identified on the basis of their location, size and that they contained choline acetyltransferase ir. On average, 58% of SPN contained p-ERK1/2, however, more SPN in both the upper (72%; C8-T4) and lower (78%; T11-L3) thoraco-lumbar spinal cord contained p-ERK1/2-ir than the middle thoracic region (47%; T4-T10). p-ERK1/2-ir was also examined in SPN (n=1895) innervating the adrenal medulla (identified by retrograde tracing using cholera toxin B subunit) combined with localization of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in three rats. On average, 64% of adrenal SPN contain p-ERK1/2-ir, and it was confirmed that all adrenal SPN contain nNOS-ir. It appears that p-ERK1/2-ir SPN, described in this study, have tonically activated receptors that are coupled to intracellular signal transduction pathways that lead to the phosphorylation of ERK1/2.
The neuropeptide galanin was shown to impair cognitive performance and reduce hippocampal CA1 long-term potentiation (LTP) in rodents. However, the contribution of the two main galanin receptors; GalR1 and GalR2, present in the hippocampus to these effects is not known. In the present study, we determined the protein expression levels of GalR1 and GalR2 in the mouse dentate gyrus (DG) and used galanin (2-11), a recently introduced GalR2 agonist, and GalR1 knockout mice to examine the contribution of GalR1 and GalR2 to the modulation of LTP and 3',5'-cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB)-dependent signaling cascades. In the DG, 57+/-5% of the galanin binding sites were GalR2, and the remaining population corresponded to GalR1. In hippocampal slices, galanin (2-11) fully blocked the induction of DG LTP, whereas galanin (1-29), a high affinity agonist for both GalR1 and GalR2, strongly but not fully attenuated the late phase of LTP by 80+/-1.5%. Application of galanin (1-29) or galanin (2-11) after LTP induction caused a transient reduction in the maintenance phase of LTP, with the larger effect displayed by superfusion of galanin (2-11). The induction and maintenance of DG LTP was not altered in the GalR1 knockout mice. Superfusion of galanin (1-29) or galanin (2-11) blocked the LTP induction to the same degree indicating a role for GalR2 in the induction phase of DG LTP. Furthermore, we analyzed the effects of GalR1 and/or GalR2 activation on DG LTP-induced CREB phosphorylation, associated with the late transcriptional effects of LTP. In the lateral part of the granule cell layer, high-frequency trains stimulation caused a significant increase in the level of CREB phosphorylation, which was significantly reduced by application of either galanin (1-29) or galanin (2-11), indicating that both GalR1 and/or GalR2 can mediate some of their effects on LTP through inhibition of CREB-related signaling cascades.
In order to establish the involvement of particular neurochemical brain groups in the response to blood volume expansion, we analyzed Fos-labeling in combination with immunolabeling for serotonin, tyrosine hydroxylase, vasopressin and oxytocin, 90 min after a sham or i.v. isotonic blood volume expansion (BVE) in unanesthetized, unrestrained rats. We also examined the changes in concentration of oxytocin, atrial natriuretic peptide and vasopressin plasma, induced by blood volume load, to confirm our previous studies. The results demonstrate the participation of specific paraventricular and supraoptic nucleus groups of cells (oxytocinergic-vasopressinergic), serotoninergic dorsal raphe nucleus cells and catecholaminergic A1/A2/A6 groups (in the caudal ventrolateral medulla, nucleus of the solitary tract and locus coeruleus respectively), in the regulatory response to BVE. They provide detailed neuroanatomical evidence to support previous observations showing the contribution of these neurochemical systems in the neural, behavioral and endocrine response to isotonic BVE.
Activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2) is a member of the activator protein-1 family of transcription factors, which includes c-Jun and c-Fos. ATF2 is highly expressed in the mammalian brain although little is known about its function in nerve cells. Knockout mouse studies show that this transcription factor plays a role in neuronal migration during development but over-expression of ATF2 in neuronal-like cell culture promotes nerve cell death. Using immunohistochemical techniques we demonstrate ATF2 expression in the normal human brain is neuronal, is found throughout the cerebral cortex and is particularly high in the granule cells of the hippocampus, in the brain stem, in the pigmented cells of the substantia nigra and locus coeruleus, and in the granule and molecular cell layers of the cerebellum. In contrast to normal cases, ATF2 expression is down-regulated in the hippocampus, substantia nigra pars compacta and caudate nucleus of the neurological diseases Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's, respectively. Paradoxically, an increase in ATF2 expression was found in the subependymal layer of Huntington's disease cases, compared with normal brains; a region reported to contain increased numbers of proliferating progenitor cells in Huntington's disease. We propose ATF2 plays a role in neuronal viability in the normal brain, which is compromised in susceptible regions of neurological diseases leading to its down-regulation. In contrast, the increased expression of ATF2 in the subependymal layer of Huntington's disease suggests a role for ATF2 in some aspect of neurogenesis in the diseased brain.
Intraventricular injections of 192 IgG-saporin in the neonatal rat caused severe loss of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and ectopic hippocampal ingrowths. These were evident at 24 months of age and thus, were lifelong consequences of the 192 IgG-saporin treatment. When tested as young adults on a novel water-escape radial arm maze, the rats with this lesion were slower to learn the task, committing significantly more working and reference memory errors before they achieved control level of performance. It is unlikely that this was a result of attentional impairment as the lesioned rats performed as vigilantly as controls in a five choice serial reaction time task. When tested in the Morris water maze at 22 months of age, they were slower at learning the hidden platform location. This contrasts with previous studies which have repeatedly shown that they normally acquire this task as young adults. It was concluded that this neonatal cholinergic lesion has modest but discernable effects on problem solving in young adulthood that are consistent with the reported effects of the lesion on cortical pyramidal neurons. The cognitive effects of the lesion may become more severe in aging, perhaps as a result of the added effects of aging on these neurons.
Between one-third and one-half of all cases of sepsis are known to be caused by gram-positive microorganisms through the cell wall component, e.g. lipoteichoic acid (LTA). Gram-positive bacteria are also known to induce encephalomyelitis and meningeal inflammation, and enhance the production of nitric oxide (NO) via expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in murine tissue macrophages. It remains to be explored if LTA could activate microglia considered to be resident brain macrophages. We report here that LTA derived from gram-positive bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus) significantly induces NO release and iNOS expression in primary microglia. LTA-induced NO accumulation was detected at 2 h in microglial culture and was significantly attenuated by pretreatment with anti-CD14, complement receptor type 3 (CR3) or scavenger receptor (SR) antibodies. LTA activated mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) such as extracellular signal-regulated kinase, p38 MAPK or c-Jun N-terminal kinase in cultured microglia. LTA-elicited microglial NO production was also drastically suppressed by SB203580 (p38 MAPK inhibitor) or pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (an inhibitor of nuclear factor kappaB), indicating that p38 MAPK and nuclear factor kappaB were involved in microglial NO release after LTA challenge. These results suggest that gram-positive bacterial product such as LTA can activate microglia to release NO via the signal transduction pathway involving multiple LTA receptors (e.g. CD14, CR3 or SR), p38 MAPK and nuclear factor kappaB. The in vivo study further confirmed that administered intracerebrally LTA induced considerable noticeable iNOS, phospho-IkappaB and phospho-p38 MAPK expression in microglia/macrophages.
Hippocalcin is a member of the neuronal calcium sensor (NCS) protein family that is highly expressed in hippocampal pyramidal cells and moderately expressed in the neurons of cerebral cortex, cerebellum and striatum. Here we examined the physiological roles of hippocalcin using targeted gene disruption. Hippocalcin-deficient (-/-) mice displayed no obvious structural abnormalities in the brain including hippocampal formation at the light microscopic level. Deletion of hippocalcin did not result in up-regulation of the hippocalcin-related proteins; neural visinin-like Ca(2+)-binding proteins (NVP) 1, 2, and 3. The synaptic excitability of hippocampal CA1 neurons appeared to be normal, as estimated by the shape of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials elicited by single- and paired-pulse stimuli, and by tetanic stimulation. However, N-methyl-d-aspartate stimulation- and depolarization-induced phosphorylation of cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) was significantly attenuated in -/- hippocampal neurons, suggesting an impairment in an activity-dependent gene expression cascade. In the Morris water maze test, the performance of -/- mice was comparable to that of wild-type littermates except in the probe test, where -/- mice crossed the previous location of the platform significantly less often than +/+ mice. Hippocalcin-deficient mice were also impaired on a discrimination learning task in which they needed to respond to a lamp illuminated on the left or right side to obtain food reinforcement. No abnormalities were observed in motor activity, anxiety behavior, or fear learning. These results suggest that hippocalcin plays a crucial role in the Ca(2+)-signaling pathway that underlies long-lasting neural plasticity and that leads to spatial and associative memory.
Acute cocaine administration has been shown to alter dorsal striatal plasticity [Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 87 (1990) 6912; Brain Res Bull 30 (1993) 173] and produce long-term neurochemical changes [Pharmacol Biochem Behav 27 (1987) 533]. To date, the effects of acute cocaine on extracellular glutamate and nerve terminal glutamate immunolabeling in the rat dorsolateral striatum have not been reported. To investigate cocaine-induced changes in extracellular glutamate, in vivo microdialysis was carried out in the dorsolateral striatum of rats 1-14 days after receiving a single injection of either vehicle or 15 mg/kg cocaine. There was an increase in the group injected with cocaine 1 day prior to measuring extracellular glutamate as compared with the control group. The group injected with cocaine 3 days prior to the microdialysis session had decreased extracellular glutamate levels. Furthermore, extracellular glutamate remained attenuated 14 days after acute cocaine treatment. Striatal glutamate decreased in the cocaine-treated rats after calcium removal, suggesting that cocaine-induced changes in extracellular glutamate were partially calcium-dependent. The density of nerve terminal glutamate immunolabeling was measured using immunogold electron microscopy in the contralateral striatum of the same rats that had been acutely treated with cocaine or vehicle. There were no changes in the density of glutamate immunolabeling within identified nerve terminals making an asymmetrical (excitatory) synaptic contact 1, 2, 3, or 14 days after acute cocaine exposure as compared with the control groups. Hence, these alterations in extracellular glutamate did not result from changes in glutamate immunolabeling within the synaptic vesicle pool. In addition, no changes in glutamate immunolabeling were found in rats that received cocaine 2 h previously or were withdrawn after 1 week of cocaine administration. The results demonstrate that a single injection of cocaine produces biphasic, time-dependent changes in extracellular glutamate in the rat dorsolateral striatum.
The amygdala is critical for acquiring and expressing conditioned fear responses elicited by sensory stimuli that predict future punishment, but there is conflicting evidence about whether the amygdala is necessary for perceiving the aversive qualities of painful or noxious stimuli that inflict primary punishment. To investigate this question, rats were fear conditioned by pairing a sequence of auditory pips (the conditioned stimulus, or CS) with a brief train of shocks to one eyelid (the unconditioned stimulus, or US). Conditioned responding to the CS was assessed by measuring freezing responses during a test session conducted 24 h after training, and unconditioned responding to the US was assessed by measuring head movements evoked by the eyelid shocks during training. We found that pre-training electrolytic lesions of the amygdala's lateral (LA) nucleus blocked acquisition of conditioned freezing to the CS, and also significantly attenuated unconditioned head movements evoked by the US. Similarly, bilateral inactivation of the amygdala with the GABA-A agonist muscimol impaired acquisition of CS-evoked freezing, and also attenuated US-evoked responses during training. However, when amygdala synaptic plasticity was blocked by infusion of the NR2B receptor antagonist ifenprodil, acquisition of conditioned freezing was impaired but shock reactivity was unaffected. These findings indicate that neural activity within the amygdala is important for both predicting and perceiving the aversive qualities of noxious stimuli, and that synaptic plasticity within LA is the mechanism by which the CS becomes associated with the US during fear conditioning.
Circadian rhythms have been described for numerous transmitter synthesizing enzymes in the brain but rarely in spinal cord. We measured spinal tyrosine-hydroxylase (TH) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) levels in the thoracic intermediolateral nucleus, the location of sympathetic preganglionic neurons, in male wild type (WT) and dopamine D(3) receptor knockout mice (D(3)KO). TH and NOS levels both displayed circadian patterns in WT and D(3)KO animals with overall reduced TH and increased NOS expression in the D(3)KO mice. The circadian pattern of NOS expression was similar in WT and D(3)KO mice. In contrast, TH expression was inverted in D(3)KO mice, with TH levels consistently lower than in WT throughout the day, but strongly increased temporarily 1 h prior to daylight. TH is the rate-limiting enzyme for the production of dopamine. Spinal dopamine dysfunction is implicated in a sleep disorder called restless legs syndrome (RLS). RLS follows a circadian rhythm and is relieved clinically by dopamine D(3) receptor agonists. Our observations of an altered circadian pattern in spinal dopamine synthesis in D(3)KO animals may provide insight into putative dopaminergic mechanisms contributing to RLS.
In a previous study, we reported that the distribution of inhibitory input, in contrast to excitatory input, decreased somatofugally along dendrites of cat jaw-closing alpha-motoneurons [J Comp Neurol 414 (1999) 454]. The present study examined the distribution of GABA, glycine, and glutamate immunopositive boutons covering horseradish peroxidase-labeled cat jaw-opening motoneurons. The motoneurons were divided into four compartments: the soma, and primary, intermediate, and distal dendrites. Ninety-seven percent of the total number of studied boutons had immunoreactivity for at least one of the three amino acids. The proportion of boutons immunoreactive for GABA and/or glycine was lower than the proportion of boutons immunoreactive for glutamate. Boutons immunoreactive to glycine alone were more numerous than boutons double-labeled for GABA and glycine, which, in turn, occurred more frequently than boutons immunoreactive to GABA alone. The percentage synaptic covering (proportion of membrane covered by synaptic boutons) of the putatively excitatory (glutamate containing) and putatively inhibitory (GABA and/or glycine containing) boutons decreased somatofugally along the dendrites. Such systematic variations were not seen in the packing density (number of boutons per 100 microm(2)); the packing density showed a distinct drop between the soma and primary dendrites but did not differ significantly among the three dendritic compartments. Overall, the packing density was slightly higher for the putatively excitatory boutons than for the inhibitory ones. When taken together with previous analyses of jaw-closing alpha-motoneurons the present data on jaw-opening alpha-motoneurons indicate that the two types of neuron differ in regard to the nature of synaptic integration in the dendritic tree.
In recent years major outbreaks of prion disease linked to oral exposure of the prion agent have occurred in animal and human populations. These disorders are associated with a conformational change of a normal protein, PrP(C) (prion protein cellular), to a toxic and infectious form, PrP(Sc) (prion protein scrapie). None of the prionoses currently have an effective treatment. A limited number of active immunization approaches have been shown to slightly prolong the incubation period of prion infection. Active immunization in wild-type animals is hampered by auto-tolerance to PrP and potential toxicity. Here we report that mucosal vaccination with an attenuated Salmonella vaccine strain expressing the mouse PrP, is effective at overcoming tolerance to PrP and leads to a significant delay or prevention of prion disease in mice later exposed orally to the 139A scrapie strain. This mucosal vaccine induced gut anti-PrP immunoglobulin (Ig)A and systemic anti-PrP IgG. No toxicity was evident with this vaccination approach. This promising finding suggests that mucosal vaccination may be a useful method for overcoming tolerance to PrP and preventing prion infection among animal and potentially human populations at risk.
The monoamine theory of depression proposes decreased bioavailability of monoamines, such as norepinephrine (NE), as the underlying cause of depression. Thus, the antidepressant efficacy of NE-reuptake inhibitors such as desipramine is attributed to increases in synaptic concentrations of NE. The time difference between inhibition of reuptake and therapeutic efficacy, however, argues against this being the primary mechanism. If desipramine elicits its therapeutic efficacy by increasing NE release, in turn, increasing activation of the alpha(2)-adrenergic autoinhibitory receptor, then mimicking this increase with an exogenous agonist (clonidine) should support or even enhance the efficacy of the antidepressant. Intriguingly, simultaneous administration of clonidine with desipramine prevented the cellular and behavioral effects elicited by desipramine alone, in both acute and chronic administration paradigms. These results suggest the involvement of additional factor(s) in the mechanism of antidepressant action of this drug. Desipramine administration results in a virtual ablation of neuron-derived tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF), thus implicating an essential role of TNF in the therapeutic efficacy of this antidepressant. Additionally, following chronic administration of desipramine, TNF-regulation of NE release is transformed, from inhibition to facilitation. Here, we demonstrate that a transformation in TNF-regulation of NE release in the brain is a key element in the efficacy of this antidepressant. Interestingly, an increase in neurotransmission prior to the antidepressant's effect on TNF production prevents the efficacy of the antidepressant drug. Thus, the efficacy of desipramine is due to decreased levels of TNF in the brain induced by this drug, ultimately modifying noradrenergic neurotransmission.
Glial cells interact with neurons and play important roles in the development, differentiation, maintenance and repair of the nervous system. Human neuroblastoma cells (SH-SY5Y) became dramatically resistant to neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), when co-cultured with mouse astrocytes. In order to further delineate the molecular mechanism involved in the neuroprotection in this selective cell-cell interaction, we assessed the activation of two signal pathways, namely, the MAP kinases (extracellular signal-regulated kinases, ERK1/2) and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3-K)/Akt signal pathways in response to 6-OHDA insult and subsequent neuronal survival. Western blot revealed that 6-OHDA significantly increased the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and Akt in mono-cultured SH-SY5Y cells. However, the increase in ERK1/2 in SH-SY5Y cells after co-cultured with astrocytes occurred as early as 3 h after 6-OHDA treatment in oppose to the increase after 12 h in monocultures. The phosphorylation of Akt in the co-cultured SH-SY5Y cells was much pronounced 3 h after 6-OHDA treatment compared with that in the mono-cultured cells. The anti-apoptotic protein bcl-2 was also increased in the co-cultured SH-SY5Y cells 3 h after treatment with 6-OHDA. Selective inhibitor of PI3-K/Akt signal pathway blocked the acquired resistance to 6-OHDA in SH-SY5Y cells following interaction with astrocytes. Inhibition of ERK1/2 signal pathway did not affect the cell survival. Our data suggest that PI3-K/Akt signal pathway, but not ERK1/2, is involved the acquired resistance in SH-SY5Y cells following cell-cell interaction with astrocytes against the neurotoxic 6-OHDA insult.
Conventional protein kinase C (cPKC) isoforms are activated by a coincident rise in cytosolic Ca(2+) and membrane-bound diacylglycerol. In excitable cells, cPKC may be activated by Ca(2+) influx through voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCC). cPKCs, in turn, are known to modulate the activity of VGCC. We examined whether PKCalpha, a cPKC, could be activated by depolarization in a neuroendocrine cell line and whether activation occurred on a time scale that modulated the depolarization-evoked intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) signal. Pheochromocytoma cells (PC12 cells) were transfected with wild-type and mutant forms of PKCalpha labeled with yellow fluorescent protein to monitor kinase translocation. Simultaneously, [Ca(2+)](i) changes were monitored with fura-2. Two point mutations that render PKCalpha inactive, D187A in the Ca(2+) binding site and K368R in the ATP binding site, significantly prolonged the time-to-peak of the depolarization-evoked [Ca(2+)](i) signal. A mutation that modulates membrane insertion (W58G) and two mutations of an autophosphorylation site (S657A, S657E) had no effect on the kinetics of the [Ca(2+)](i) signal. We conclude that in PC12 cells, Ca(2+) entry through VGCC rapidly activates PKCalpha, and that PKCalpha can modulate the Ca(2+) signal on a physiologically relevant time scale. Point mutations of PKCalpha can be used as specific and potent modulators of the PKC signaling pathway.
Mole-rats are strictly subterranean rodents that are rarely exposed to environmental light. They are well adapted to their environment and have reduced eyes and a severely regressed visual system. It has been shown, however, that mole-rats do exhibit endogenous circadian rhythms that can be entrained, suggesting an intact and functional circadian system. To determine whether light is the entraining agent in these animals, Fos expression in response to light pulses at different circadian times was investigated to obtain phase response curves. Light is integrated effectively in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the Cape mole-rat (Georychus capensis), and Fos expression is gated according to the phase of the circadian clock. The Fos response in the Cape mole-rat was comparable to that of aboveground rodents. In contrast, the highveld mole-rat (Cryptomys hottentotus pretoriae) was less sensitive to light and did not show a selective Fos response according to the phase of the circadian cycle. Social species appear to be less sensitive to light than their solitary counterparts, which compares well with results from locomotor activity studies.
The p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) is involved in the regulation of neuronal survival and phenotype, but its signal transduction mechanisms are poorly understood. Recent evidence has implicated the cytoplasmic protein NRAGE (neurotrophin receptor-interacting MAGE (from Melanoma AntiGEn) homolog) in p75(NTR) signaling. To gain further insight into the role of NRAGE, we investigated the co-expression of NRAGE and p75(NTR) in mature rat brain. In all areas examined, NRAGE appeared to be confined to neurons. In the basal forebrain cholinergic complex, NRAGE immunoreactivity was evident in all p75(NTR)-positive neurons. There were many more NRAGE-positive than p75(NTR)-positive neurons in these regions, however. NRAGE was also expressed in areas of the basal forebrain that did not express p75(NTR), including the lateral septal nucleus and the nucleus accumbens. A finding in marked contrast to previous studies was the presence of p75(NTR) immunoreactivity in neuronal cell bodies in the hippocampus. Hippocampal p75(NTR) immunoreactivity was apparent in rats 6 months and older, and was localized to the dentate gyrus and stratum oriens. All p75(NTR)-positive neurons in the dentate gyrus and hippocampal formation were positive for NRAGE. The majority of granular cells of the dentate gyrus and pyramidal cells in the hippocampal formation were positive for NRAGE and negative for p75(NTR). NRAGE was also present in some neuronal populations that express p75(NTR) after injury, including striatal cholinergic interneurons, and motor neurons. A region of marked disparity was the cerebral cortex, in which NRAGE immunoreactivity was widespread whereas p75(NTR) was absent. The results are consistent with an important role for NRAGE in p75(NTR) signaling, as all cells that expressed p75(NTR) also expressed NRAGE. The wider distribution of NRAGE expression suggests that NRAGE may also participate in other signaling processes.
Neonatal ventral hippocampal (nVH) lesions in rats result in adult onset of a number of behavioral and cognitive abnormalities analogous to those seen in schizophrenia, including hyperresponsiveness to stress and psychostimulants and deficits in working memory, sensorimotor gating and social interaction. Molecular and neurochemical alterations in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and nucleus accumbens (NAcc) of nVH-lesioned animals suggest developmental reorganization of these structures following neonatal lesions. To determine whether nVH lesions lead to neuronal morphological changes, we investigated the effect of nVH lesion on dendritic structure and spine density of pyramidal neurons of the PFC and medium spiny neurons of the NAcc. Bilateral ibotenic acid-induced lesion of the VH was made in Sprague-Dawley pups at postnatal day 7 (P7); and at P70, neuronal morphology was quantified by modified Golgi-Cox staining. The results show that length of basilar dendrites and branching and the density of dendritic spines on layer 3 pyramidal neurons were significantly decreased in rats with nVH lesions. Medium spiny neurons from the NAcc showed a decrease in the density of dendritic spines without significant changes in dendritic length or arborization. The data, comparable to those observed in the PFC of schizophrenic patients, suggest that developmental loss of excitatory projections from the VH may lead to altered neuronal plasticity in the PFC and the NAcc that may contribute to the behavioral changes in these animals.
4-Aminopyridine (4-AP) is suggested to improve symptomatology of spinal injury patients because it may facilitate neuromuscular transmission, spinal impulse flow and the operation of the locomotor central pattern generator (CPG). Since 4-AP can also induce repetitive discharges from dorsal root afferents, this phenomenon might interfere with sensory signals necessary to modulate CPG activity. Using electrophysiological recording from dorsal and ventral roots of the rat isolated spinal cord, we investigated 4-AP-evoked discharges and their relation with fictive locomotor patterns. On dorsal roots 4-AP (5-10 microM) induced sustained synchronous oscillations (3.3+/-0.8 s period) smaller than electrically evoked synaptic potentials, persistent after sectioning off the ventral region and preserved in an isolated dorsal quadrant, indicating their dorsal horn origin. 4-AP oscillations were blocked by tetrodotoxin, or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and d-amino-phosphonovalerate, or strychnine and bicuculline, suggesting they were network mediated via glutamatergic, glycinergic and GABAergic transmission. Isolated ventral horn areas could not generated 4-AP oscillations, although their intrinsic disinhibited bursting was accelerated by 4-AP. Thus, ventral horn areas contained 4-AP sensitive sites, yet lacked the network for 4-AP induced oscillations. Activation of fictive locomotion by either application of N-methyl-D-aspartate and serotonin or stimulus trains to a single dorsal root reversibly suppressed dorsal root oscillations induced by 4-AP. This suppression was due to depression of dorsal network activity rather than simple block of root discharges. Since dorsal root oscillations evoked by 4-AP were turned off when the fictive locomotor program was initiated, these discharges are unlikely to interfere with proprioceptive signals during locomotor training in spinal patients.
cAMP plays an important role as second messenger molecule controlling multiple cellular processes in the brain. cAMP levels depend critically on the phosphodiesterases (PDE) activity, enzymes responsible for the clearance of intracellular cAMP. We have examined the regional distribution and cellular localization of mRNA coding for the cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase 7B (PDE7B) in rat brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry. PDE7B mRNA is specifically distributed in rat brain, preferentially in neuronal cell populations. The highest levels of hybridization are observed in olfactory tubercle, islands of Calleja, dentate gyrus, caudate-putamen and some thalamic nuclei. Positive hybridization signals are also detected in other areas, such as cerebral cortex, Purkinje cells of the cerebellum and area postrema. By double in situ hybridization histochemistry, we found that 74% and 79% of the cells expressing PDE7B mRNA in striatum and olfactory tubercle, respectively, were GABAergic cells (expressing glutamic acid decarboxylase mRNA), in contrast with the lack of expression in the few cholinergic cells (expressing choline acetyltransferase mRNA) present in those two areas (around 0.4% in olfactory tubercle). In the thalamic nuclei, a majority of cells containing PDE7B mRNA also expresses a glutamatergic marker (76.7% express vesicular glutamate transporter vGluT1 and 76% express vGluT2 mRNAs). Almost all PDE7B expressing cells in dentate gyrus (93%) were glutamatergic. These results offer a neuroanatomical and neurochemical base that will support the search for specific functions for cAMP dependent PDEs and for the development of specific PDE7 inhibitors.
The Flinders sensitive line (FSL) rat is a proposed genetic hypercholinergic animal model of human depression. Considering the strong comorbidity between depression and cocaine dependence we investigated the well-documented behavioral and molecular effects of cocaine in the FSL and their control Flinders resistant line (FRL) rats. First, we found no difference between the two lines to establish cocaine self-administration; both lines reached stable responding within 10 days of training at a fixed ratio-1 schedule of reinforcement (1.5 mg/kg/injection). However, the FSL rats exhibited reduced cocaine intake at a dose of 0.09 mg/kg/injection in a within-session dose-response curve (0.02, 0.09, 0.38, 1.5 mg/kg/injection). Second, we examined the effects of repeated cocaine administration on locomotor activity, dopamine overflow and striatal prodynorphin mRNA expression. We found the FSL rats to be low responders to novelty and to exhibit less locomotor activation after repeated cocaine administration (30 mg/kg, i.p., daily injections for 10 days) than their controls. Microdialysis sampling from the nucleus accumbens shell revealed no significant difference in the dopamine overflow between the rat lines, neither during baseline nor after cocaine stimulation. Postmortem analyses of striatal prodynorphin mRNA expression (using in situ hybridization histochemistry) revealed a differentiated response to the cocaine exposure. In contrast to control FRL rats, the FSL rats showed no typical cocaine-evoked elevation of prodynorphin mRNA levels in rostral subregions of the striatum whereas both strains expressed increased prodynorphin mRNA levels in the caudal striatum after cocaine administration. In conclusion, the FSL animal model of depression demonstrates marked blunting of the locomotor and dynorphin neuroadaptative responses to cocaine in accordance with its enhanced cholinergic sensitivity.
Normal brain ageing is associated with a decline in hippocampal memory functions. Neuronal oscillations in the gamma frequency band have been implicated in various cognitive tasks. In this study we test the effect of normal brain ageing on gamma oscillations in the mouse hippocampus in vitro. gamma Oscillations were evoked by either 10 microM carbachol or 100 nM kainate in ventral hippocampus slices from young (&gt;5 month) and aged (&gt;22 month) C57Bl/J6 mice. In slices from young mice carbachol-induced gamma oscillations were more regular and more coherent than those induced by kainate. Compared with young, the power in the 20-80 Hz frequency range in area CA3 of slices from aged mice was reduced to 14% for kainate-induced oscillations and to 7% for carbachol-induced oscillations, whereas waveform, dominant frequency and coherence of the oscillation were unchanged. Local network properties were assessed by paired-pulse stimulation of Schaffer collateral/commissural fibers. The excitatory synaptic response in stratum radiatum of CA3 was reduced, in correlation with the antidromic population spike, but functional inhibition in CA3 and CA1 was unaffected. Changes in local network properties could not explain the reduced gamma oscillation strength. Since oscillations driven by two different pathways are similarly affected with age, an age-dependent effect on tonic depolarizing drive of principal cells is unlikely to explain the current results. Other mechanisms, including a change with age in the use-dependent modulation of synaptic strength, should account for the impaired gamma oscillations in the aged hippocampus that may contribute to age-dependent memory impairment.
Encoding of sensory information by nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) neurons is incompletely understood. Using extracellular single-unit recording in alpha-chloralose-urethane anesthetized cats, we have examined the discharge characteristics of NTS neurons to activation of somatic Adelta and C fiber afferents by skeletal muscle contraction evoked by electrical stimulation of lower lumbar/upper sacral ventral roots. Generally, somatic afferent stimulation evoked two distinct firing patterns. The first population (36/43 cells) increased their firing rate to brief somatic stimuli. A subset (21/27 cells) exhibited a rapid decay of their firing rate during sustained somatic stimulation. Peak instantaneous firing frequency (F(p)) increased proportionally with the intensity of somatic stimulation (105+/-4 vs. 119+/-4 vs. 139+/-4 Hz, 10, 20 and 40 Hz, respectively, P&lt;0.0001), whereas steady-state firing frequency (F(ss)) was not altered (25+/-2 vs. 27+/-2 vs. 27+/-2 Hz, 10, 20 and 40 Hz, respectively, P=0.72). Two indices were derived to quantify the decay properties. The decay rate constant (obtained from exponential curve fitting) was not altered by stimulation frequency (461+/-10 vs. 442+/-14 vs. 429+/-26 ms, 10, 20 and 40 Hz, respectively, P=0.415), nor was the decay index (derived to express the percent reduction in firing rate with respect to the initial peak firing rate; 76+/-2 vs. 77+/-2 vs. 81+/-2%, 10, 20 and 40 Hz, respectively, P=0.187). In contrast, the second population (seven of 43 cells) decreased their firing rate to stimulation. Of the NTS neurons tested for barosensitivity (29/36), none responded to pressure stimulation. These results have identified a population of somatosensitive NTS neurons that exhibit rapid firing rate decay properties during sustained stimulation. However, this population could faithfully encode phasic excitation during rhythmic somatosensory input. These results are discussed in relation to the role of somatosensory input on baroreflex function.
Mutations of the human gene encoding transmembrane channel-like protein (TMC)1 cause dominant and recessive nonsyndromic hearing disorders, suggesting that this protein plays an important role in the inner ear. In this study, we cloned chicken Tmc2 (GgTmc2) from a cochlear cDNA library and we annotated four additional TMC family members: GgTmc1, GgTmc3, GgTmc6, and GgTmc7. All chicken TMCs possess the defining TMC signature motif and display high conservation of their genomic structure when compared with other vertebrate TMC genes. GgTmc1 is localized on the chicken sex chromosome Z at a locus that displays conserved synteny with the loci of mammalian orthologues residing on autosomes. In contrast, the locus of GgTmc2 does not exhibit conserved synteny with its mammalian orthologues. Because murine TMC1 and TMC2 are restrictively expressed in cochlear hair cells, we determined the expression of the chicken orthologues in the basilar papilla, the avian equivalent of the organ of Corti. While GgTmc2 was present throughout the basilar papilla and in other tissues, GgTmc1 transcript was detected specifically in the basal portion of the basilar papilla and was not detectable in any other tissue or organ studied. GgTmc3 and GgTmc6 were detectable in all organs analyzed. Antibody labeling revealed that GgTmc2 is predominantly associated with the lateral membranes of hair and supporting cells. The expression of GgTmc2 by both cell types was further confirmed by RT-PCR using isolated cells. This expression and subcellular localization of GgTmc2 is in agreement with the proposed potential role of this novel class of transmembrane proteins in ion transport.
Age-related changes within the auditory brainstem typically include alterations in inhibitory neurotransmission and coding mediated by GABA and glycinergic circuits. As part of an effort to evaluate the impact of aging on neurotransmission in the higher auditory centers, the present study examined age-related changes in the GABA synthetic enzyme, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), in rat primary auditory cortex (AI), which contains a vast network of intrinsic and extrinsic GABAergic circuits throughout its layers. Message levels of the two GAD isoforms found in brain, GAD(65) and GAD(67), and GAD(67) protein levels were compared in young adult, middle-aged and aged rats using in situ hybridization and quantitative immunocytochemistry, respectively. For comparison, age-related GAD changes were also assessed in the parietal cortex and hippocampus. Significant age-related decreases in GAD(65&amp;67) messages were observed in AI layers II-VI of aged rats relative to their young adult cohorts. The largest changes were identified in layer II (GAD(65): -26.6% and GAD(67): -40.1%). GAD(67) protein expression decreased significantly in parallel with mRNA decreases in all layers of AI. Adjacent regions of parietal cortex showed no significant GAD(67) protein changes among the age groups, except in layer IV. As previously described, GAD(67) message and protein levels in selected hippocampal regions were significantly reduced in aged rats. Age-related GAD reductions likely reflect decreases in both metabolic and pre-synaptic GABA levels suggesting a plastic down-regulation of normal adult inhibitory GABA neurotransmission. Consistent with the present findings, functional studies in primate visual cortex and preliminary studies in AI find coding changes suggestive of altered inhibitory processing in aged animals. An age-related loss of normal adult GABA neurotransmission in AI would likely alter temporal coding properties and could contribute to the loss in speech understanding observed in the elderly.
The saphenous partial ligation (SPL) model is a new, easily performed, rodent model of neuropathic pain that consists of a unilateral partial injury to the saphenous nerve. The present study describes behavioral, pharmacological and molecular properties of this model. Starting between 3 and 5 days after surgery, depending on the modality tested, animals developed clear behaviors indicative of neuropathic pain such as cold and mechanical allodynia, and thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia compared with naive and sham animals. These pain behaviors were still present at 1 month. Signs of allodynia also extended to the sciatic nerve territory. No evidence of autotomy or bodyweight loss was observed. Cold and mechanical allodynia but not thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia was reversed by morphine (4 mg/kg i.p.). The cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 (5 mg/kg i.p.) improved signs of allodynia and hyperalgesia tested except for mechanical hyperalgesia. Gabapentin (50 mg/kg i.p.) was effective against cold and mechanical allodynia but not hyperalgesia. Finally, amitriptyline (10 mg/kg i.p.) failed to reverse allodynia and hyperalgesia and its administration even led to hyperesthesia. Neurobiological studies looking at the expression of mu opioid receptor (MOR), cannabinoid CB(1) and CB(2) receptors showed a significant increase for all three receptors in ipsilateral paw skin, L3-L4 dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord of neuropathic rats compared with naive and sham animals. These changes in MOR, CB(1) and CB(2) receptor expression are compatible with what is observed in other neuropathic pain models and may explain the analgesia produced by morphine and WIN 55,212-2 administrations. In conclusion, we have shown that the SPL is an adequate model that will provide a new tool for clarifying peripheral mechanisms of neuropathic pain in an exclusive sensory nerve.
We have hypothesized that p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR))-mediated activation of the pro-apoptotic proteins c-jun, p38 and caspase-3 underlies the neuronal cell loss in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons after axotomy in normal mice, and that this activation is exaggerated in experimental diabetes. To test this hypothesized relationship, we compared the expression of pro-apoptotic proteins in fifth lumbar DRG (L5DRG) neurons of wildtype Balb/c (p75+/+) mice and p75(NTR) knockout (p75-/-) mice, assigned to either non-diabetic control groups or to diabetic (1 month) groups, all with a unilateral sciatic nerve crush produced 10 days before tissue preparation. The absolute number of L5DRG neurons expressing immunoreactivities (IR) for phosphorylated c-jun (P-c-jun-IR), phosphorylated p-38 (P-p38-IR) and cleaved caspase-3 (caspase-3-IR) were estimated in semi-thick sections using the optical fractionator. Nerve crush increased the numbers of P-c-jun-IR and caspase-3-IR neurons in all four groups. On the crush side, diabetes did not exaggerate the increase of P-c-jun-IR or caspase-3-IR neurons in p75+/+ mice, whereas in p75-/- mice diabetes reduced the increase of P-c-jun-IR neurons. Also, in p75-/- mice there was fewer caspase-3-IR cells on the intact and crushed side in comparison with p75+/+ mice independent of the presence of diabetes. This study demonstrates that (1) diabetes of 1 month's duration does not potentiate the expression of three pro-apoptotic markers p38, caspase-3 and P-c-jun neither in intact neurons nor after nerve crush, and that (2) p75(NTR) is required for activation of the pro-apoptosis signal caspase-3 after nerve crush in both diabetic and non-diabetic mice.
The present study was conducted to test the hypothesis that the peripheral 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)2A receptor is involved in inflammatory hyperalgesia and production of noxious stimulus-induced neuronal activity at the level of the spinal cord dorsal horn. Intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of carrageenan dramatically reduced paw withdrawal latency to noxious heat (47 degrees C) and caused paw swelling. Pretreatment with ketanserin, a selective antagonist of 5-HT2A receptor, in the hindpaw produced dose-dependent inhibition of the hyperalgesia (0.5, 3 and 5 mug; i.pl.) with full relief at 5 mug. The drug also moderately reduced carrageenan-induced paw swelling in a dose-dependent manner. Carrageenan induced conspicuous expression of c-fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI) in the spinal dorsal horn of segments L4-5. Ketanserin (5 mug) markedly reduced carrageenan-induced FLI in all laminae of the dorsal horn. However, blockade of peripheral 5-HT1A receptors by (N-2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl-1-piperazinyl] ethyl]-N-2-pyridinylcyclohexanecarboxamide at maximally effective doses (30 and 100 mug; i.pl.) did not alter carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia, edema or expression of FLI. The present study provided evidence at cellular level that the peripheral 5-HT2A receptor is preferentially involved in the development of thermal hyperalgesia in the carrageenan model of inflammation.
Several lines of research have implicated glutathione (GSH) in schizophrenia. For instance, GSH deficiency has been reported in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenics in vivo. Further, in rats postnatal GSH-deficiency combined with hyperdopaminergia led to cognitive impairments in the adult. In the present report we studied the effects of 2-day GSH-deficiency with L-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine on monoaminergic function in mice. The effect of GSH-deficiency per se and when combined with the amphetamine and phencyclidine (PCP) models of schizophrenia was investigated. GSH-deficiency significantly altered tissue levels of dopamine (DA), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and their respective metabolites homovanillic acid (HVA), and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in a region-specific fashion. The effects of GSH-deficiency on tissue monoamines were distinct from and, generally, did not interact with the effects of amphetamine (5 mg/kg; i.p.) on tissue monoamines. Microdialysis studies showed that extracellular DA-release after amphetamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) was two-fold increased in the nucleus accumbens of GSH-deficient mice as compared with control mice. Basal DA was unaltered. Further, extracellular levels of HVA in the frontal cortex and hippocampus and 5-HIAA in the nucleus accumbens were elevated by GSH-deficiency per se. Spontaneous locomotor activity in the open field was unchanged in GSH-deficient mice. In contrast, GSH-deficiency modulated the locomotor responses to mid-range doses of amphetamine (1.5 and 5 mg/kg, i.p.). Further, GSH-deficient mice displayed an increased locomotor response to low (2 and 3 mg/kg, i.p.) doses of phencyclidine (PCP). In conclusion, the data presented here show that even short-term GSH-deficiency has consequences for DA and 5-HT function. This was confirmed on both neurochemical and behavioral levels. How GSH and the monoamines interact needs further scrutiny. Moreover, the open field findings suggest reduced or altered N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor function in GSH-deficient mice. Thus, GSH-deficiency can lead to disturbances in DA, 5-HT and NMDA function, a finding that may have relevance for schizophrenia.
Etomidate (ET), an imidazole general anesthetic, has been medically widely used. Recent evidence suggests that the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA receptor may be one of the important molecular target(s) of general anesthetics. Up to date, little attention has been directed toward the sacral dorsal commissural nucleus (SDCN), which serves as a relay of sensory information from the pelvic viscera in the spinal cord. Therefore, the effect of ET on GABA(A) receptor function in neurons acutely dissociated from the SDCN was investigated using the nystatin-perforated patch-recording configuration under voltage-clamp conditions. At a holding potential of -40 mV, ET (above 10 microM) induced an inward ET-activated current (I(ET)) with the EC(50) value of 33 +/- 3 microM, which was reversibly blocked by bicuculline and picrotoxin. The reversal potential of I(ET) was close to the Cl(-) equilibrium potential. ET also displayed a biphasic modulatory effect on GABA responses. At lower concentrations (0.1-100 microM), ET reversibly potentiated GABA (1 microM)-activated Cl(-) currents in a bell-shaped manner, with the maximal facilitative effect at 10 microM, whereas at concentrations &gt;100 microM, the peak of the ET-induced current was suppressed in the absence or presence of GABA (1 microM). These results suggest that in SDCN, in addition to the potentiation of GABA(A) receptor-mediated responses at low concentrations and the direct activation of GABA(A) receptors at moderate concentrations as expected, ET produced a fast blocking action at high concentrations. The general anesthetic-induced effects in SDCN, at least the potentiation of GABA responses, may significantly contribute to anesthesia of pelvic viscera during the general anesthesia.
Biological drive states exert homeostatic control in part by increasing the reinforcing effects of environmental incentive stimuli. An apparent by-product of this adaptive response is the enhanced acquisition of drug self-administration behavior in food-restricted (FR) animals. While previous research has demonstrated increased central sensitivity to rewarding effects of abused drugs and direct dopamine (DA) receptor agonists in FR subjects, the underlying neurobiology is not well understood. Recently, it was demonstrated that intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of the D-1 DA receptor agonist, SKF-82958 produces a stronger activation of striatal extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 and cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB) in FR relative to ad libitum (AL) fed rats. The main purpose of the present study was to characterize the involvement and mechanisms of interaction between NMDA receptor function and the augmented cellular responses to D-1 DA receptor stimulation in nucleus accumbens (NAc) of FR rats. In experiment 1, Western immunoblotting was used to demonstrate that i.c.v. injection of SKF-82958 (20 microg) produces greater phosphorylation of the NMDA NR1 subunit and calcium-calmodulin kinase II (CaMK II) in NAc of FR as compared with AL rats. In experiment 2, pretreatment of subjects with the NMDA antagonist, MK-801 (1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased SKF-82958-induced activation of CaMK II, ERK1/2 and CREB, and reversed the augmenting effect of FR on activation of all three proteins. In experiment 3, pretreatment with the mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase inhibitor SL-327 (60 mg/kg, i.p.) suppressed SKF-82958- induced activation of ERK1/2 and reversed the augmenting effect of FR on CREB activation. These results point to specific neuroadaptations in the NAc of FR rats whereby D-1 DA receptor stimulation leads to increased NMDA NR1 subunit phosphorylation and consequent increases in NMDA receptor-dependent CaMK II and ERK1/2 signaling, and increased NMDA receptor/ERK1/2-dependent phosphorylation of the nuclear transcription factor, CREB. The upregulated cellular responses to D-1 DA agonist challenge may play a role in the augmentation of drug reward and appetitive instrumental learning during periods of food restriction.
Adrenergic signaling regulates the timing of sleep states and sleep state-dependent changes in muscle tone. Recent studies indicate a possible role for noradrenergic transmission in the wake-promoting action of modafinil, a widely used agent for the treatment of excessive sleepiness. We now report that noradrenergic projections from the locus coeruleus to the forebrain are not necessary for the wake-promoting action of modafinil. The efficacy of modafinil was maintained after treatment of C57BL/6 mice with N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl 2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4), which eliminates all noradrenaline transporter-bearing forebrain noradrenergic projections. However, the necessity for adrenergic receptors in the wake-promoting action of modafinil was demonstrated by the observation that the adrenergic antagonist terazosin suppressed the response to modafinil in DSP-4 treated mice. The wake-promoting efficacy of modafinil was also blunted by the dopamine autoreceptor agonist quinpirole. These findings implicate non-noradrenergic, dopamine-dependent adrenergic signaling in the wake-promoting mechanism of modafinil. The anatomical specificity of these dopaminergic-adrenergic interactions, which are present in forebrain areas that regulate sleep timing but not in brain stem areas that regulate sleep state-dependent changes in muscle tone, may explain why modafinil effectively treats excessive daytime sleepiness in narcolepsy but fails to prevent the loss of muscle tone that occurs in narcoleptic patients during cataplexy.
Effects of i.c.v. and i.t. administration of (3SR,4aRS,6RS,8aRS)-6-[2-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)ethyl]decahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid (LY215490), a competitive alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist and MK-801, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist on the micturition reflex were evaluated in urethane-anesthetized rats, to determine if glutamatergic mechanisms in brain as well as spinal cord are important for the control of micturition. I.c.v. or i.t. injection of LY215490 in low doses (0.01-0.03 microg) did not change rhythmic bladder or external urethral sphincter (EUS) electromyogram (EMG) activity during continuous cystometrograms (CMGs; 0.21 ml/min), whereas higher doses (0.1-1 microg) markedly suppressed these responses. During single CMGs (0.04 ml/min), 0.1-1 microg i.c.v. or 0.1-10 microg i.t. doses increased volume threshold and pressure threshold for inducing micturition, and decreased bladder contraction amplitude and voiding efficiency. MK-801 in low doses (0.6 microg i.c.v. or 0.6-1.8 microg for i.t.) did not change bladder contraction amplitude or EUS EMG activity during continuous CMGs, whereas higher doses 6-60 microg markedly suppressed these responses. During single CMGs, MK-801 (6-60 microg i.c.v. or 60 microg i.t.) increased volume threshold and pressure threshold, and decreased voiding efficiency and bladder contraction amplitude. Pretreatment i.c.v. with MK-801 in a dose 1.8 microg which alone had little effect on bladder contraction amplitude and EUS EMG activity, markedly enhanced depressant effects of LY215490 (0.03 microg i.c.v.) on these responses. Administration of same doses of drugs by i.t. route did not elicit a similar synergistic interaction. These data indicate that in urethane-anesthetized rats glutamatergic mechanisms in brain and spinal cord are essential for controlling micturition and that interactions between AMPA and NMDA glutamatergic transmission are important at supraspinal but not spinal sites.
Increasing evidence suggests an active participation of nociceptinergic transmission in the central control of cardiovascular activity and reflex. In this study, the role of the classic opioid mu receptor and the nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptor, a novel opioid receptor, in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) in the regulation of cardiovascular activity was investigated and compared in chronically cannulated and freely moving conscious rats. Microinjections of nociceptin, an endogenous ligand for the nociceptin receptor, into the relatively rostral NTS produced dose-related (0.04, 0.2, and 1 nmol) increases in blood pressure and heart rate. Intra-NTS injection of the selective nociceptin receptor antagonist [Nphe(1)]Nociceptin(1-13)NH(2) (NOR-AN) at 1 nmol blocked the increases in blood pressure and heart rate induced by nociceptin. In contrast, pretreatment with the nonselective opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (5 nmol) had no effects on the cardiovascular responses to nociceptin. Like nociceptin, microinjection of endomorphin-1 (EM-1), an endogenous ligand for the opioid mu receptor, into the rostral NTS increased blood pressure and heart rate in a dose-dependent manner (0.04, 0.2, and 1 nmol). Pretreatment with naloxone (5 nmol), but not NOR-AN, blocked cardiovascular responses elicited by EM-1. Neither NOR-AN nor naloxone alone had significant effects on the baseline blood pressure and heart rate. Injection of excitatory amino acid l-glutamate (1 nmol) into the same sites caused the typical depressor and bradycardic responses. In the caudal NTS areas, nociceptin and EM-1 seemed to induce opposite responses: hypotension and bradycardia. These results suggest that the novel nociceptin receptors and traditional opioid receptors in the NTS may be independently involved in the regulation of cardiovascular activity.
We determined whether the cardiovascular actions of central anti-hypertensive agents clonidine and moxonidine are dependent on noradrenergic or serotonergic innervation of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) in conscious rabbits. 6-Hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) or 5,6-dihydroxytriptamine (5,6-DHT) was injected into the RVLM to deplete noradrenergic and serotonergic terminals respectively. One, 2 and 4 weeks later, responses to fourth ventricular (4V) clonidine (0.65 microg/kg) and moxonidine (0.44 microg/kg) were examined. Destruction of noradrenergic pathways in the RVLM by 6-OHDA reduced the hypotensive response to 4V moxonidine to 62%, 47% and 60% of that observed in vehicle treated rabbits at weeks 1, 2 and 4 respectively. The moxonidine induced bradycardia was similarly attenuated (to 46% of vehicle). Conversely, 6-OHDA had no effect on the hypotensive or bradycardic effects of 4V clonidine. Efaroxan (I(1)-imidazoline receptor/alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist; 3.5, 11, 35 microg/kg) and 2-methoxyidazoxan (alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist; 0.3, 0.9, 3 microg/kg) equally reversed the hypotension to 4V clonidine, suggesting a mainly alpha(2)-adrenoceptor mechanism. Efaroxan preferentially reversed responses to moxonidine in both vehicle and 5,6-DHT groups and in the 1st week after 6-OHDA, suggesting a mechanism involving mainly I(1)-imidazoline receptors. This selectivity was subsequently lost in the 2nd and 4th weeks when the remaining hypotension was mainly mediated by alpha(2)-adrenoceptors. Depletion of serotonergic terminals did not alter the responses to either agonist nor did it change the relative effectiveness of the antagonists. Western blots of RVLM tissues probed with imidazoline and alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antisera showed a pattern of bands close to that reported in other species. The main effect of 6-OHDA was an 18% lower level of the 42 kDa imidazoline protein (P&lt;0.05). We conclude that the hypotensive and bradycardic actions of moxonidine but not clonidine are mediated through imidazoline receptors and are dependent on intact noradrenergic pathways within the RVLM. Furthermore, the noradrenergic innervation may be associated with a 42 kDa imidazoline receptor protein.
Individual differences in behavioral traits are associated with sensitivity to various neurochemical and psychopharmacological manipulations. In this study exploratory and amphetamine-induced behavior in rats with persistently high or low exploratory activity (HE and LE, respectively) was examined before and after a partial denervation of the locus coeruleus (LC) projections with the selective neurotoxin DSP-4 (N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine; 10 mg/kg). Partial LC denervation prevented the increase in exploratory activity over repeated test sessions in the LE animals, but had no effect in HE-rats. Amphetamine- (0.5 mg/kg) induced locomotor activity was attenuated by DSP-4 pretreatment only in HE-rats. These results suggest differential involvement of LC noradrenergic transmission in novelty- and amphetamine-induced behavior in animals with persistent differences in novelty-related behavior. In addition to partial noradrenaline depletion in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, which occurred in both HE- and LE-rats, DSP-4 treatment also decreased the content of dopamine and its metabolites in the nucleus accumbens, and the metabolite levels in striatum, but only in the LE-animals. 5-HIAA levels were also reduced in the nucleus accumbens and striatum in LE-rats by the neurotoxin. D(2) receptor function, as determined by dopamine-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding, was increased by DSP-4 treatment in the striatum of LE-rats, but reduced in HE-rats. No effect of partial LC denervation was found on dopamine-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding in the nucleus accumbens. Together these findings suggest that LC noradrenergic neurotransmission is differently involved in dopaminergic mechanisms which mediate novelty-related vs amphetamine-induced behavior.
Recent data suggest that anesthetic drugs may cause widespread and dose-dependent apoptotic neurodegeneration during development. The window of vulnerability to this neurotoxic effect, particularly with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists such as ketamine, is restricted to the period of synaptogenesis. The purposes of this study are to determine whether treatment of forebrain cultures with ketamine results in a dose-related increase in neurotoxicity and whether upregulation of NMDA receptor subunit NR1 promotes ketamine-induced apoptosis. Forebrain cultures were treated for 12 h with 0.1, 1, 10 and 20 microM ketamine or co-incubated with NR1 antisense oligonucleotide (2 microM). After washout of the ketamine, cultures were kept in serum-containing medium (in presence of glutamate) for 24 h. Application of ketamine (10 and 20 microM) resulted in a substantial increase in DNA fragmentation as measured by cell death enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, increased number of terminal dUTP nick-end labeling positive cells, and a reduction in mitochondrial metabolism of the dye 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide. No significant effect was seen in the release of lactate dehydrogenase, indicating that cell death presumably occurred via an apoptotic mechanism. Co-incubation of ketamine with NR1 antisense significantly reduced ketamine-induced apoptosis. Western analysis showed that neurotoxic concentrations of ketamine increased Bax and NR1 protein levels. NR1 antisense prevented this increase caused by ketamine, suggesting that ketamine-induced cell death is associated with a compensatory upregulation of the NMDA receptor. These data suggest that NR1 antisense offers neuroprotection from apoptosis in vitro, and that upregulation of the NR1 following ketamine administration is, at least, partially responsible for the observed apoptosis.
Environmental synchronization of the endogenous mammalian circadian rhythm involves glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission within the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). The neuropeptide nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) inhibits light-induced phase shifts, evokes K(+)-currents and reduces the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration in SCN neurons. Since these effects are consistent with a modulatory role for N/OFQ on synaptic transmission in the SCN, we examined the effects of N/OFQ on evoked and spontaneous excitatory and inhibitory currents in the SCN. N/OFQ produced a consistent concentration-dependent inhibition of glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSC) evoked by optic nerve stimulation. N/OFQ did not alter the amplitude of currents induced by application of (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) or N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) nor the amplitude of miniature EPSC (mEPSC) consistent with a lack of N/OFQ effect on postsynaptic AMPA or NMDA receptors. N/OFQ significantly reduced the mEPSC frequency. The inhibitory actions of N/OFQ were blocked by omega-conotoxin GVIA, an N-type Ca(2+)channel antagonist and partially blocked by omega-agatoxin TK, a P/Q type Ca(2+) channel blocker. These data indicate that N/OFQ reduces evoked EPSC, in part, by inhibiting the activity of N- and P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels. In addition, N/OFQ produced a consistent reduction in baseline Ca(2+) levels in presynaptic retinohypothalamic tract terminals. N/OFQ also inhibited evoked GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSC) in a concentration dependent manner. However, N/OFQ had no effect on currents activated by muscimol application or on the amplitude of miniature IPSC (mIPSC) and significantly reduced the mIPSC frequency consistent with an inhibition of GABA release downstream from Ca(2+) entry. Finally, N/OFQ inhibited the paired-pulse depression observed in SCN GABAergic synapses consistent with a presynaptic mechanism of action. Together these results suggest a widespread modulatory role for N/OFQ on the synaptic transmission in the SCN.
Recently, it was reported that stimulation of the infralimbic cortex produces a feedforward inhibition of central amygdala neurons. The interest of this observation comes from the fact that the central nucleus is the main output station of the amygdala for conditioned fear responses and evidence that the infralimbic cortex plays a critical role in the extinction of conditioned fear. However, the identity of the neurons mediating this infralimbic-evoked inhibition of the central nucleus remains unknown. Likely candidates are intercalated amygdala neurons. Indeed, these cells receive glutamatergic afferents from the infralimbic cortex, use GABA as a transmitter, and project to the central amygdala. Thus, the present study was undertaken to test whether, in adult rats, the infralimbic cortex can affect the activity of intercalated neurons. To this end, disinhibition of the infralimbic cortex was induced by local infusion of the non-competitive GABA-A receptor antagonist picrotoxin. Subsequently, neuronal activation was determined bilaterally within the amygdala using induction of the immediate early gene Fos. Infralimbic disinhibition produced a significant increase in the number of Fos-immunoreactive intercalated cells bilaterally whereas no change was detected in the central nucleus. In the basolateral amygdaloid complex, increases in the number of Fos-immunoreactive cells only reached significance in the contralateral lateral nucleus. These results suggest that glutamatergic inputs from the infralimbic cortex directly activate intercalated neurons. Thus, our findings raise the possibility that the infralimbic cortex inhibits conditioned fear via the excitation of intercalated cells and the consequent inhibition of central amygdala neurons.
Vulnerability to excitotoxicity increases during development in vivo and in vitro. To determine whether the mere presence of mature N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors coincides with the emergence of excitotoxicity or whether post-receptor signaling processes may also contribute, we examined the temporal relationship of NMDA receptor expression, function and toxicity using cortical cell cultures. Surface expression of all NMDA receptor subunits increased with time in culture. This correlated with NMDA receptor function, assessed both biochemically and electrophysiologically, but not with the appearance of excitotoxicity. Specifically, cells at day in vitro (DIV) 10 were less susceptible to NMDA receptor-induced neurotoxicity than those cultured for 14 days, even though receptor expression/function was identical. In addition, cell-attached single channel recordings revealed that NMDA receptor conductance, open probability, and frequency of channel openings were not significantly different between the two days. Intriguingly, depolarization-induced release of glutamate from cultures grown for 10 days was significantly lower than that released from cultures grown for 14 days. Further, exogenous addition of glutamate receptor agonists immediately after removal of NMDA rendered cultures at DIV 10 susceptible to excitotoxicity, while toxicity was significantly reduced by addition of an NMDA receptor antagonist immediately after exposure to NMDA at DIV 14. These data are the first to demonstrate that the subsequent, secondary release of glutamate plays an equal, if not more important, role than NMDA receptor development per se, in mediating the enhanced vulnerability of neurons to excitotoxicity that occurs with age.
The integration of spatial and temporal information is a prerequisite for skilled movements. Likewise, spatial and temporal information must be integrated to predict the potential collision (or otherwise) of two moving objects. In a previous blocked functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study [Neuroimage 20 (2003) S82] we showed that collision judgments (relative to size judgments) provoked a significant increase in neural activity in the left inferior parietal cortex (supramarginal gyrus). This result suggests that this region is involved in the integration of perceptual spatiotemporal information in addition to its known involvement in programming skilled actions. To further investigate the impact of the integration of temporal and spatial information on the left parietal cortex we conducted an event-related fMRI study in which we varied the difficulty of the collision (and the size) judgment tasks parametrically. Reaction times and error rates were used as behavioral measures of increasing task demands. There was a significant linear increase in reaction times and error rates during the collision and the size tasks over the four levels of task difficulty. A linear increase of the blood oxygen level-dependent signal in the left inferior parietal cortex was found only for the collision, not for the size, conditions. Neural activation in the left inferior parietal cortex thus paralleled the increasing demands on spatiotemporal integration. This result confirms that the left supramarginal gyrus integrates spatial and temporal information irrespective of motor demands.
There is no in vitro model of the critical periods for developmental plasticity, the time windows of plastic changes during development, which may hinder in-depth mechanistic analysis. We have shown previously that the corticospinal tract with synaptic connections can be reconstructed in in vitro co-cultures using slices of the sensorimotor cortex and spinal cord of the rat. In our in vitro system, corticospinal synapses form widely over spinal gray matter during early development, after which those on the ventral side are eliminated in an activity and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-dependent manner. A detailed quantitative analysis of the time course of sensitivity to an NMDA blocker was made with this system. Synapse distribution was evaluated by recording field excitatory post-synaptic potentials evoked by deep cortical layer stimulation. Corticospinal axon terminal distribution was examined by anterograde labeling with biocytin. We showed that the D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) effect is irreversible for at least the length of culture. When APV was removed from the medium before 6 days in vitro(DIV) or after 11 DIV, elimination of ventral synapses was not blocked. APV sensitivity showed a clearly defined time window. A 6-11 DIV application was necessary and sufficient for the full, irreversible block of synapse elimination. From 6-11 DIV, APV sensitivity seems to decrease gradually but not linearly. This system provides an in vitro model of critical periods for developmental plasticity of central synapses which up to now has not been available.
The neurochemical changes that operate in nociceptive spinal cord circuits during secondary hyperalgesia are largely unknown, in particular with respect to the balance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission. In this study we evaluated the expression of NK1 and GABA(B) receptors in nociceptive spinal neurons in a model of secondary hyperalgesia consisting of noxious mechanical stimulation of the hindlimb skin close to a joint chronically inflamed by complete Freund's adjuvant. In spinal segments receiving input from that skin area, Fos-immunodetection was combined with immunocytochemistry for NK1 receptors, GABA(B) receptors or both receptors. In control and monoarthritic animals, neurons double-labeled for Fos and each receptor occurred mainly in laminae I and IV-V. In lamina I, the percentage of NK1 neurons expressing Fos was higher in monoarthritics while lower percentages of GABA(B) neurons expressed Fos. The percentage of Fos-positive cells expressing NK1 immunoreaction did not change in monoarthritics but that of Fos cells with GABA(B) immunoreaction was lower in these animals. In laminae IV-V, a large increase in Fos expression was detected in monoarthritic rats but the relative proportions of Fos-positive neurons expressing each receptor were similar in the two groups. Co-localization of NK1 and GABA(B) receptors occurred only in lamina I neurons in both experimental groups with no differences between control and monoarthritic animals in the percentages of Fos-positive neurons that expressed the receptors. Considering the participation of lamina I neurons bearing NK1 and GABA(B) receptors in several spinofugal systems, it is possible that the imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory actions exerted, respectively, by substance P and GABA may subserve secondary hyperalgesia by increasing ascending transmission of nociceptive input.
Adenosine A(2A) receptors are most abundant in the striatum where they control the striatopallidal pathway thus controlling locomotion. Extra-striatal A(2A) receptors are considerably less abundant but their blockade confers robust neuroprotection. We now have investigated if striatal and extra-striatal A(2A) receptors have a different neuronal location to understand their different functions. The binding density of the A(2A) antagonist, [(3)H]-7-(2-phenylethyl)-5-amino-2-(2-furyl)pyrazolo[4,3e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine ([(3)H]SCH 58261), was enriched in nerve terminals membranes (B(max)=103+/-12 fmol/mg protein) compared with total membranes (B(max)=29+/-4 fmol/mg protein) from the hippocampus, the same occurring with A(2A) receptor immunoreactivity. In contrast, there was no enrichment of [(3)H]SCH 58261 binding or A(2A) receptor immunoreactivity in synaptosomal compared with total membranes from the striatum. Further subcellular fractionation of hippocampal nerve terminals revealed that A(2A) receptor immunoreactivity was enriched in the active zone of presynaptic nerve terminals, whereas it was predominantly located in the postsynaptic density in the striatum, although a minority of striatal A(2A) receptors were located in the presynaptic active zone. These results indicate that A(2A) receptors in the striatum are not enriched in synapses in agreement with the preponderant role of A(2A) receptors in signal processing in striatopallidal neurons. In contrast, hippocampal A(2A) receptors are enriched in synapses, mainly in the active zone, in accordance with their role in controlling neurotransmitter release. This regional variation in the neuronal distribution of A(2A) receptors reinforces the care required to extrapolate our knowledge from striatal A(2A) receptors to other brain preparations.
Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) is known to play a central role in ischemia-induced brain damage in rodents. In comparison to the rat, however, the available data on the cellular synthesis of IL-1beta mRNA and protein in the mouse are very limited. Here, we report on the time profile, the topography and the quantitative, cellular expression of IL-1beta mRNA in mice subjected to permanent occlusion of the distal middle cerebral artery (MCA). The in situ hybridization analysis showed that IL-1beta mRNA was expressed during the first post-surgical hour in a small number of high-expressing macrophage-like cells, located in cortical layers I and II of the future infarct. At 2 h, a significant number of faintly labeled IL-1beta mRNA-expressing cells had appeared in the developing peri-infarct, and the number remained constant at 4 h and 6 h, when the hybridization signal began to distribute to the cellular processes. Quantitative PCR performed on whole hemispheres showed a significant 20-fold increase in the relative level of IL-1beta mRNA at 12 h and a highly significant 42-fold increase at 24 h, at which time single IL-1beta mRNA-expressing cells were supplemented by aggregates and perivascular infiltrates of intensely labeled IL-1beta mRNA-expressing cells. Immunohistochemistry and double immunohistochemical stainings in addition to combined in situ hybridization, confirmed that the intensely labeled IL-1beta mRNA-expressing and IL-1beta protein synthesizing cells predominantly were glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunonegative, macrophage associated antigen-1-immunopositive microglia-macrophages. By day 5 there was a dramatic decline in the relative level of IL-1beta mRNA in the ischemic hemisphere. In summary, the data provide evidence that permanent occlusion of the distal MCA in mice results in expression of IL-1beta mRNA and IL-1beta synthesis in spatially and temporally segregated subpopulations of microglia and macrophages.
We studied interactions of genetic and environmental factors shaping adult emotionality and stress coping, and tested the hypothesis that repeated periodic maternal deprivation (PMD) exerts differential effects on adult behavioral and neuroendocrine stress responsiveness in dependence on the genetic predisposition to either hyper- or hypo-anxiety. Exposure of male Wistar rats bidirectionally bred for either high (HAB) or low (LAB) anxiety-related behavior to PMD between postnatal days 2 and 15 resulted in a behavioral approximation of the selected lines. This was reflected by test-dependent signs of reduced anxiety-related behavior in adult HAB rats and of enhanced levels of anxiety in LAB rats compared with their corresponding unstressed controls. In addition to behavioral parameters, differential effects of PMD were also seen with respect to the responsiveness of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical axis to acute stressor exposure (novel environment) in adulthood. The corticotrophin (ACTH) and corticosterone hyper-responses seen in control rats of the HAB line compared with those of the LAB line became attenuated in PMD-HAB rats, whereas PMD did not significantly alter neuroendocrine responses in LAB rats. Thus, as a result of PMD, both ACTH and corticosterone responses became indistinguishable between HAB and LAB rats. Although HAB dams spent more time on the nest with the litter compared with LAB dams during the first 5 days postpartum, licking and grooming behavior did not differ between the lines prior to separation, and was found to be increased to the same extent in both HAB and LAB dams during the first hour immediately after reunion with the pups. In contrast to early life stress, exposure of adult HAB and LAB rats to a 10-day unpredictable stress schedule failed to alter their emotional measures. The mitigating effect of PMD on both behavioral and neuroendocrine parameters in rats representing extremes in trait anxiety might reflect an evolutionary benefit as the genetic variability among individuals of a species is sustained while allowing adequate responses to potentially dangerous stimuli in adulthood dependent on early life conditions.
Corticostriatal circuits participate in limbic, attentional, motor and other networks, and are implicated in psychostimulant addiction. The psychostimulant methylphenidate is used in the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and for recreational purposes. Recent studies indicate that methylphenidate alters gene expression in striatal neurons. We investigated whether methylphenidate affects gene regulation in specific corticostriatal circuits, by comparing drug-induced molecular changes in different functional domains of the striatum with changes in their cortical input regions. In order to assess the potential functional significance of methylphenidate-induced molecular changes, we examined members of two different classes of plasticity-related molecules, the transcription factor zif 268 and the synaptic plasticity factor Homer 1a. Acute methylphenidate administration in adult rats increased the expression of Homer 1a and zif 268 in both cortex and striatum in a dose-dependent and regionally selective manner. These changes in gene expression occurred after doses of 2 mg/kg (i.p.) and higher, and were highly correlated between cortical regions and their striatal targets. In the cortex, increases were maximal in the medial agranular (premotor) and cingulate cortex, followed by motor and somatosensory cortex, and were minimal in the insular cortex. Correspondingly, in the striatum, increases were most robust in sensorimotor sectors that receive medial agranular input, and were weaker or absent in ventral sectors. The methylphenidate-induced increases in cortical Homer 1a and zif 268 expression were also correlated with increases in striatal substance P and dynorphin expression (direct pathway). Overall, the regional distribution of methylphenidate-induced molecular changes in the striatum was similar to that of changes induced by psychostimulants such as cocaine. These findings demonstrate that methylphenidate affects transcription and synaptic plasticity regulatory proteins in specific corticostriatal circuits, including those implicated in attentional functions and psychostimulant addiction. Such methylphenidate-induced gene regulation may contribute to the therapeutic effects and/or abuse liability of this psychostimulant.
We investigated the effects of the diencephalon and mesencephalon on the central respiratory drive originating from ponto-medullary regions in normoxic and hypoxic conditions, using central nervous system preparations from newborn rats. We used two approaches: 1) electrophysiological analysis of respiratory frequency and the amplitude of inspiratory C4 activity and 2) immunohistochemical detection of Fos protein, an activity-dependent neuronal marker. We found that, in normoxic conditions, the mesencephalon moderated respiratory frequency, probably by means of an inhibitory effect on ventral medullary respiratory neurons. Diencephalic inputs restored respiratory frequency. Moreover, O(2)-sensing areas in the diencephalon (caudal lateral and posterior hypothalamic areas) and mesencephalon (ventrolateral and dorsolateral periaqueductal gray) seem to increase the amplitude of respiratory bursts during adaptation of the central respiratory drive to hypoxia. In contrast, decrease in respiratory frequency during hypoxia is thought to be mediated by a cluster of ventral hypothalamic neurons.
Current evidence suggests that behavioral sensitization to the chronic administration of levodopa (L-DOPA) to dopamine-depleted animals involves a plasticity of GABA-mediated signaling in output regions of the basal ganglia. The purpose of this study was to compare in adult rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion the effects of an acute or chronic (for 3 or 7 days) injection of L-DOPA on mRNA levels encoding for glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65 and GAD67) in the striatum and GABA(A) receptor alpha1, beta2 and gamma2 subunits in the substantia nigra, pars reticulata (SNr), by in situ hybridization histochemistry. In addition, immunostaining levels for the alpha1 subunit were examined in the SNr. In agreement with previous studies, we found that L-DOPA administration increased GAD mRNA levels in the striatum of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. However, the magnitude of this effect increased with the number of injections of L-DOPA. On the other hand, we found that 6-OHDA lesions resulted in increases in alpha1, beta2 and gamma2 mRNA levels in the ipsilateral SNr, which were normalized or decreased compared with the contralateral side by the acute or chronic administration of L-DOPA. In addition, alpha1 immunostaining in the SNr was significantly decreased in rats injected for 7 days but not for 3 days or acutely with L-DOPA. Our results demonstrate that a chronic administration of L-DOPA results in a progressive increase in GAD and decrease in GABA(A) receptor expression in the striatum and SNr, respectively. They provide further evidence that behavioral sensitization and dyskinesia induced by a chronic administration of L-DOPA in an experimental model of Parkinson's disease is paralleled by a plasticity of GABA-mediated signaling in the SNr.
C fiber dorsal root reflexes (DRR) contribute to neurogenic inflammation and possibly also to touch-evoked pain (allodynia) induced by intradermal capsaicin. The responses of C fibers in the sural nerve to graded mechanical stimuli before and following intradermal capsaicin were studied in 39 adult male rats. Two-thirds of 111 fibers were without spontaneous activity, while the remaining fibers averaged 1.41+/-0.25 spontaneous antidromic spikes per second. Among the quiescent C fibers only two had excitatory receptive fields, whereas the active C fibers showed three patterns of activity, an excitatory response, an inhibitory response, or no response to mechanical stimulation. The excitatory responses were to high intensity mechanical stimuli alone, while inhibitory responses were evoked in a graded fashion by both noxious and innocuous mechanical stimuli. Intradermal injection of capsaicin increased spontaneous and evoked DRRs in all C fibers with excitatory responses to mechanical stimuli, but none acquired responses to innocuous stimuli. Capsaicin initially produced inhibition of spontaneous activity in C fibers with inhibitory or no receptive fields, but this later resumed and achieved a rate higher than baseline. Mechanical stimuli re-applied following the resumption of spontaneous discharges failed to produce any response. Spontaneous DRRs were increased by topical application of 1 mM beta-alanine (a competitive antagonist for GABA transporters) and abolished by ipsilateral spinal nerve L5 lesion, verifying antidromic origin. The role of C fiber DRRs in normal sensory transmission and during hyperalgesia is discussed.
In decerebrate cats, the electromyogram (EMG) activity of the forelimb extensor triceps brachii (TB) increases during side-down roll tilt of the whole animal (vestibulospinal reflex, VSR) at about 0.15 Hz. (+/-10 degrees ), while decreases during side up tilt. On the other hand, the TB activity increases during dorsal flexion of the ipsilateral forepaw (0.15 Hz, +/-5 degrees-10 degrees ), but decreases during ventral flexion. In six experiments, these stimuli were synergistically associated (side-down tilt coincided with dorsal flexion of the forepaw), so that the EMG modulation of the TB activity was greater than that induced by the individual stimuli. During a 3-h period of this sustained stimulation, the amplitude of the pure VSR progressively increased to reach the maximum value at the end of the third hour and persisted unmodified during the post-adaptation period (1 h). In three experiments, animal tilt and forepaw rotation were antagonistically associated (side-down tilt coincided with ventral flexion of the forepaw). In these instances the VSR gain remained on the average stable, but, at the end of the 3-h period of combined stimulation, a proportion of TB responses to animal tilt showed a phase reversal. In a digitigrade animal like the cat, a dorsal flexion of the wrist is associated with a decrease in limb length and would occur when the extensor tone is not appropriate to support body weight; we propose, therefore, that somatosensory volleys elicited by wrist rotation modify the gain of VSR so as to maintain postural stability. Inactivation, on the side of muscle recording, of the corticocerebellar region which projects to the lateral vestibular nucleus of Deiters, by local microinjection of the GABA-A agonist muscimol (0.5 microl at 16 microg/microl), decreased the already adapted gain of VSR. In conclusion, the results of this study suggest that somatosensory reafferent inputs to the cerebellar vermis are used to plastically modify the gain of VSR, when external forces produce changes in the final posture of the foot during animal tilt.
Dopamine (DA), released from the lateral olivocochlear (LOC) efferent terminals, the efferent arm of the short-loop feedback in the cochlea, is considered as a protective factor in the inner ear since it inhibits auditory nerve dendrite firing in ischemia- or noise-induced excitotoxicity leading to sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL). In the present study we investigated the effect of oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), an in vitro ischemia model, on guinea-pig cochlear [(3)H]DA release in a microvolume superfusion system. We found that OGD alone failed to induce a detectable elevation of [(3)H]DA level, but in the presence of specific D(2) receptor antagonists, sulpiride and L-741,626, it evoked a significant increase in the extracellular concentration of [(3)H]DA. D(2) negative feedback receptors are involved not exclusively in the regulation of synthesis and vesicular release of DA, but also in the activation of its reuptake. Thus, D(2) receptor antagonism interferes with the powerful reuptake of DA from the extracellular space. To explore the underlying mechanism of this DA-releasing effect we applied nomifensine and found that the effect of OGD on cochlear DA release in the presence of D(2) antagonists could be inhibited by this selective DA uptake inhibitor. This finding indicates that the OGD-evoked DA release was mainly mediated through the reverse operation of the DA transporter. The two structurally different D(2) antagonists also augmented the electrical field stimulation-evoked release of DA proving the presence of D(2) autoreceptors on dopaminergic LOC terminals. Our results confirm the presence and role of D(2) DA autoreceptors in the regulation of DA release from LOC efferents, and suggest a protective local mechanism during ischemia which involves the direct transporter-mediated release of DA. Increasing the release of the protective transmitter DA locally in the inner ear may form the basis of future new therapeutic strategies in patients suffering from SNHL.
GABA(B) receptors are believed to play a role in rhythmic activity in the mammalian brain. The aim of our study was to examine the presynaptic and postsynaptic locations of these receptors in the medial septal diagonal band area (MS/DB), an area known to pace the hippocampus theta rhythm. Whole-cell patch recordings were made from parasagittal MS/DB slices obtained from the 16-25 day rat. Neurons were classified into GABAergic and cholinergic subtypes according to previous electrophysiological criteria. Bath application of the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen in the presence of tetrodotoxin, and brief tetanic fiber stimulation in the presence of ionotropic receptor antagonists, provided evidence for the presence of postsynaptic GABA(B) receptor transmission to GABAergic but not cholinergic neurons. Bath application of baclofen, at concentrations too low to elicit postsynaptic activity in MS/DB neurons, significantly reduced the amplitudes of stimulus-evoked ionotropic receptor inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) and excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and the paired pulse depression of these evoked potentials. Baclofen also significantly reduced the frequencies but not the amplitudes of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) and excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs), indicating the presence of presynaptic GABA(B) receptors on GABAergic and glutamatergic terminals in the MS/DB. Baclofen, also at a concentration too low to elicit postsynaptic activity, reduced the frequencies and amplitudes of spontaneous IPSCs and EPSCs recorded in the presence of 200-400 nM kainate. Rhythmic compound IPSCs at theta frequencies were recorded under these conditions in some neurons, and these rhythmic compound IPSCs were disrupted by the activation but not by the inhibition of GABA(B) receptors. These results suggest that GABA(B) receptors modulate rather than generate rhythmic activity in the MS/DB, and that this modulatory effect occurs via receptors located on presynaptic terminals.
The recent demonstration of endogenous stem/progenitor cells in the adult mammalian brain raises the exciting possibility that these undifferentiated cells may be able to generate new neurons for cell replacement in neurodegenerative diseases such as Huntington's disease (HD). Previous studies have shown that neural stem cells in the rodent brain subependymal layer (SEL), adjacent to the caudate nucleus, proliferate and differentiate into neurons and glial cells and that neurogenesis occurs in the hippocampus and the SEL of the caudate nucleus in the adult human brain, but no previous study has shown the extent to which progenitor cells are found in the SEL in the normal and diseased human brain with respect to location. From detailed serial section studies we have shown that overall, there is a 2.7-fold increase in the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen positive cells in HD (grade 2/3); most notably, the ventral and central regions of the SEL adjacent to the caudate nucleus contained the highest number of proliferating cells and in all areas and regions examined there were more cells in the HD SEL compared with the normal brain. Furthermore, progenitor cells colocalized with betaIII tubulin in a subset of cells in the SEL indicating neurogenesis in the HD brain. There was a 2.6-fold increase in the number of new neurons that were produced in the Huntington's disease SEL compared with the normal SEL; however, the Huntington's disease SEL had many more proliferating progenitor cells; thus, the proportion of new neuron production relative to the number of progenitor cells was approximately the same. This study provides new evidence of the pattern of neurogenesis in the normal and HD brain.
The effects of i.c.v. infused platelet-derived growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor on cell genesis, as assessed with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation, were studied in adult rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. Both growth factors increased the numbers of newly formed cells in the striatum and substantia nigra to an equal extent following 10 days of treatment. At 3 weeks after termination of growth factor treatment, immunostaining of BrdU-labeled cells with the neuronal marker NeuN revealed a significant increase in newly generated neurons in the striatum. In correspondence, many doublecortin-labeled neuroblasts were also observed in the denervated striatum following growth factor treatment. Further evaluation suggested that a subset of these new neurons expresses the early marker for striatal neurons Pbx. However, no BrdU-positive cells were co-labeled with DARPP-32, a protein expressed by mature striatal projection neurons. Both in the striatum and in the substantia nigra there were no indications of any newly born cells differentiating into dopaminergic neurons following growth factor treatment, such that BrdU-labeled cells never co-expressed tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis. In conclusion, our results suggest that administration of these growth factors is capable of recruiting new neurons into the striatum of hemiparkinsonian rats.
The paraventricular nucleus (PVN) is integral to regulation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and contains cells producing corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH), arginine vasopressin (AVP) and enkephalin. We used immunohistochemistry to map these peptides and to resolve the extent of co-localization within PVN cells in intact and gonadectomized male and female sheep. Immunoreactive (ir) CRH, AVP and enkephalin cells were mapped in two rams and two ewes at 180 mum intervals throughout the rostro-caudal extent of the PVN. Similar distributions of AVP-ir cells occurred in both sexes whereas CRH-ir and enkephalin-ir cells extended more rostrally in rams. In groups (n=4) of intact and gonadectomized sheep of both sexes, co-localization and distribution of neuropeptides was influenced by sex and gonadectomy. Males had more AVP and CRH cells than females. Intact animals had more AVP cells than gonadectomized animals. There were no differences between groups in the number or percentage of cells that stained for both CRH and AVP or in the number of cells that stained for both CRH and enkephalin. Differences were observed in the percentage of enkephalin cells that contained CRH with males having a greater percentage of co-localized cells than did females. Differences were also observed in the number and percentage of cells that stained for both enkephalin and AVP; the number of cells that stained for both neuropeptides was greater in males than in females and greater in intact animals than in gonadectomized animals. Differences were observed in the percentage of AVP cells that contained enkephalin, and in the percentage of enkephalin cells that contained AVP with males having a greater percentage of co-localized cells than did females. We conclude that sex and gonadal status affect peptide distribution in the PVN of the sheep which may provide an anatomical basis for sex differences in HPA axis responses to stress.
Dendritic spines are important structures which receive synaptic inputs in many regions of the CNS. The goal of this study was to test the hypothesis that numbers of dendritic spines are significantly reduced on spiny neurones in basal ganglia regions in Parkinson's disease as we had shown them to be in a rat model of the disease [Exp Brain Res 93 (1993) 17]. Postmortem tissue from the caudate and putamen of patients suffering from Parkinson's disease was compared with that from people of a similar age who had no neurological damage. The morphology of Golgi-impregnated projection neurones (medium-sized spiny neurones) was examined quantitatively. The numerical density of dendritic spines on dendrites was reduced by about 27% in both nuclei. The size of the dendritic trees of these neurones was also significantly reduced in the caudate nucleus from the brains of PD cases and their complexity was changed in both the caudate nucleus and the putamen. Dendritic spines receive crucial excitatory input from the cerebral cortex. Reduction in both the density of spines and the total length of the remaining dendrites is likely to have a grave impact on the ability of these neurones to function normally and may partly explain the symptoms of the disorder.
Urocortin 1 has been implicated in a number of specific behaviors, which include energy balance, stress reactivity and ethanol consumption. To elucidate genetically influenced differences in the mouse urocortin 1 system, we performed immunohistochemical characterization of urocortin 1 distribution in C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mouse brain. Urocortin 1 analysis reveals strain-dependent differences in distribution of urocortin 1 immunoreactive neurons and neuronal fibers. In both strains, the highest number of urocortin 1-positive neurons was observed in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus and lateral superior olive. Urocortin 1-positive neurons were detected in the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus of DBA/2J mice, but were absent in the C57BL/6J strain. Differences in urocortin 1 fibers were detected in many areas throughout the brain, and were most apparent in the septal areas, thalamic areas, several midbrain regions, and medulla. Strain-dependent distribution of urocortin 1-containing cells and fibers suggests that differences in this neuropeptide system may underlie differences in behavior and physiological responses between these strains. Further, we found that in both mouse strains, urocortin 1 in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus and choline acetyltransferase are not coexpressed. We show that the urocortin 1-positive neurons of this brain area form a separate population of cells that we propose to be called the non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus.
We recently identified the protein kinase C-enhanced protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) inhibitor KEPI based on its morphine-induced upregulation in striatum. Regulation of protein serine/threonine dephosphorylation by PP1 can modulate important brain signaling pathways. To improve understanding of KEPI's role in the brain, we have developed anti-KEPI sera in rabbits immunized with a hemocyanin conjugate of KEPI residues 66-80, characterized the specificity that this serum provides, mapped the distribution of immunoreactive KEPI (iKEPI) in mouse brain, rat dorsal root ganglia and striatal cultures and documented KEPI binding to PP1 in vitro. Staining is found in apparently neuronal processes and, often less intensely, in neuronal perikarya in primary cultures and in neurons and neuronal elements from a number of brain regions. iKEPI fiber/terminal patterns are relatively densely distributed in striatum, nucleus accumbens, septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, hippocampus, paraventricular thalamus, ventromedial hypothalamus, interpeduncular nucleus, raphe nuclei, nucleus caudalis of the spinal tract of the trigeminal and dorsal horn of the spinal cord. iKEPI-positive cell bodies lie in the nucleus accumbens, striatum, lateral septal nucleus, granular layer of dentate gyrus, interpeduncular nucleus, dorsal root ganglia and cerebellar vermis. These expression patterns point to possible roles for KEPI in regulating protein dephosphorylation by inhibiting PP1 activities in a number of brain pathways likely to use several different neurotransmitters and to participate in a number of brain functions. Dense KEPI immunoreactivity in nucleus accumbens perikarya, combined with evidence for its regulation by opiates, supports possible roles for KEPI in molecular signal transduction pathways important for drug reward and addiction.
The definition of neurotransmitter receptors expressed by individual neuronal phenotypes is essential for our understanding of integrated neural regulation. We report here a single-neuron strategy using green fluorescent protein (GFP)-promoter transgenic mice and oligonucleotide microarrays that has enabled us to provide a qualitative profile of the neurotransmitter receptors expressed by the gonadotropin- releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons, critical for the neural regulation of fertility. Acute brain slices were prepared from adult female GnRH-GFP transgenic mice and single GnRH neurons identified and patched. The contents of GnRH neurons underwent reverse transcription and cDNA amplification using the switch mechanism at the 5' end of RNA templates system, and hybridization to mouse gene oligonucleotide arrays. Fifty different neurotransmitter receptor subunit mRNAs were detected in GnRH neurons. Many of the classical amino acid and aminergic receptors were present in addition to 14 distinct, and in most cases novel, neuropeptidergic receptor signaling families. Four of the latter were selected for functional validation with gramicidin-perforated patch-clamp electrophysiology. Galanin, GnRH and neuromedin B were all found to exert direct depolarizing actions upon GnRH neurons whereas somatostatin induced a potent hyperpolarizing response. These studies demonstrate a relatively straightforward approach for transcriptome profiling of specific neuronal phenotypes. The stimulatory actions of GnRH and galanin upon GnRH neurons found here indicate that positive ultrashort feedback loops exist among the GnRH neuronal population.
We describe a 28-year-old male patient with a mild course of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (PMD) who presented with developmental delay in his second year of life and was able to walk until 12 years of age. Several computed tomography scans in infancy and youth were normal, the diagnosis of PMD was eventually suggested by magnetic resonance imaging at the age of 24 years. Analysis of the proteolipid protein gene (PLP1) revealed a nucleotide exchange (c.762G&gt;T) at the 3' border of exon 6, which did not entail an amino acid exchange but adversely affected splicing. PCR analysis of fibroblast cDNA showed that c.762G&gt;T resulted in partial skipping of exon 6 in the PLP1 mRNA. Exclusion of exon 6 does not alter the reading frame but leads to absence of amino acids 232-253 that constitute a main part of the fourth transmembrane helix of the PLP protein. Remarkably, residual wild-type splicing was also detected in the patient's cultured fibroblasts. This might explain the mild phenotype in this case, as exon 6 skipping mutations resulted in a severe course of disease in other patients.
We had previously shown that in rat spinal cord motoneurons urotensin II (UII) precursor mRNA was down-regulated by androgens. Very recently, a gene encoding the precursor of a UII analog, termed UII-related peptide (URP), has been identified. Using in situ hybridization, we studied the localization of UII and URP precursor as well as androgen receptor (AR) mRNA in the male mouse thoracic spinal cord. We also evaluated the androgenic regulation of the two peptide precursor and AR mRNA expression in the ventral horn of the mouse thoracic spinal cord. The results revealed that URP precursor mRNA was localized in motoneurons and that the vast majority of the motoneurons expressed both peptide precursor as well as AR mRNA. Seven-day castration induced an increase in UII and URP precursor and AR mRNA levels. Short term (3-24 h) administration of dihydrotestosterone to castrated animals restored the three protein mRNA levels to the levels observed in intact animals. These results suggest that in the ventral horn of the mouse spinal cord both UII and URP precursor and AR mRNA are expressed by the same neurons and that circulating androgens are exerting a down-regulation of the three protein mRNA expression, possibly by a direct action on motoneurons.
Developing an understanding of factors that regulate development of the nervous system is important if we hope to be able to repair the nervous system after injury or disease. Suppressor of cytokine signaling-2 (SOCS2) is an intracellular regulator of cytokine signaling that blocks the inhibitory effects of growth hormone on neuronal differentiation and promotes neurogenesis. Here we examine the effect of SOCS2 over-expression on brain development by assessing density and soma size of different neuronal populations in the somatosensory cortex and striatum of SOCS2 transgenic mice compared with wildtype C57BL/6 mice. There were no significant differences in brain weight, cortical thickness or striatal area between mice of either genotype. Analysis of NeuN positive neuronal cell density showed a modest but significant 9% increase across layers 2-6 of SOCS2 transgenic cortex, while cortical interneuron subpopulations were variably affected. In the cortex, parvalbumin and somatostatin expressing neuron densities were unaffected, while calretinin and calbindin positive neuronal densities increased by 48% and 45% respectively. There was no apparent difference in glial fibrillary acidic protein positive astrocyte numbers in layers 1 or 6b of cortex. Furthermore, soma sizes of calretinin and calbindin positive cortical neurons were significantly smaller than wildtype, although there was no difference in size of Cresyl Violet-stained layer 5 projection neurons nor of parvalbumin or somatostatin positive cortical neurons. Additionally, synaptic density and dendritic branching were found to be increased in SOCS2 transgenic cortex. These effects on calretinin and calbindin positive cortical neurons and cortical neuronal circuitry were not observed in the striatum of SOCS2-Tg brains. However, striatal cholinergic interneurons were significantly smaller in SOCS2-Tg brains. At embryonic day 14.5, proliferation and apoptosis in the developing telencephalon were similar in each genotype. Therefore, over-expression of SOCS2 variably affects different cortical regions and neuronal populations, with the predominant effect appearing to be on interneurons and neuronal connectivity in the cortex.
The retinal ciliary margin is particularly relevant for the correct generation and regeneration of vertebrate retinae, since pluripotent stem cells are located there throughout development, and--at least in some species--even until adult stages. Our aim was to identify factors (genes) which are involved in processes of proliferation and differentiation in the developing chicken retina. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction differential display was used to identify genes that were differentially expressed in chick central and peripheral embryonic retina. Candidate genes analyzed through sequencing and database searches were confirmed by Northern blot analysis and histochemistry. A series of differentially expressed genes were detected, including a neuronal cell adhesion molecule, an esterase, and homeobox gene products. One of the sequenced products was identified as subunit I of cytochrome-c oxidase (COX-1), an enzyme which is central to energy metabolism and particularly relevant for developing nervous systems. Northern blot analysis confirmed its up-regulation in the chick peripheral retina, being maximal at embryonic day 7. In the retinal pigmented epithelium its expression is lower than in the retinal periphery but higher than in central retina. COX histochemistry revealed distinct laminar patterns in central retina, but also an elevated level of activity in the peripheral retina throughout development. These data not only show that the developing ciliary margin of the chick retina has high energy requirements, but also indicate that COX-1 could play essential roles in developing cells and in stem cells of the eye periphery.
The basal ganglia play a critical role in controlling seizures in animal models of idiopathic non-convulsive (absence) epilepsy. Inappropriate output from the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) is known to exacerbate seizures, but the precise neuronal mechanisms underlying abnormal activity in SNr remain unclear. To test the hypothesis that cortical spike-wave oscillations, often considered indicative of absence seizures, propagate to the subthalamic nucleus, an important afferent of SNr, we simultaneously recorded local field potentials from the frontal cortex and subthalamic nucleus of freely moving rats. Spontaneous spike-wave oscillations in cortex (mean dominant frequency of 7.4 Hz) were associated with similar oscillations in the subthalamic nucleus (mean of 7.9 Hz). The power of oscillations at 5-9 Hz was significantly higher during spike-wave activity as compared with rest periods without this activity. Importantly, spike-wave oscillations in cortex and subthalamic nucleus were significantly coherent across a range of frequencies (3-40 Hz), and the dominant (7-8 Hz) oscillatory activity in the subthalamic nucleus typically followed that in cortex with a small time lag (mean of 2.7 ms). In conclusion, these data suggest that ensembles of subthalamic nucleus neurons are rapidly recruited into oscillations during cortical spike-wave activity, thus adding further weight to the importance of the subthalamic nucleus in absence epilepsy. An increase in synchronous oscillatory input from the subthalamic nucleus could thus partly underlie the expression of pathological activity in SNr that could, in turn, aggravate seizures. Finally, these findings also reiterate the importance of oscillations in these circuits in normal behaviour.
Oxygen and NADH are essential components in the production of ATP in the CNS. This study examined the dynamic interaction between tissue oxygen tension (pO(2)) and NADH imaging changes within hippocampal tissue slices, during metabolic stresses including hypoxia and synaptic activation. The initiation of abrupt hypoxia (from 95% O(2) to 95% N(2)) caused a rapid decrease in pO(2), onset of hypoxic spreading depression (hsd; at 6.7+/-1.3 mm Hg; n=15), and a monophasic increase in NADH. Provided that reoxygenation was prompt, synaptic responses, pO(2) and NADH levels returned to baseline following hsd. Longer hypoxia caused irreversible neuronal dysfunction, an increase in pO(2) beyond baseline (due to decreased tissue demand), and hyperoxidation of NADH (10+/-2% decrease below baseline; n=7). Synaptic activation in ambient 95% O(2) caused a decrease or 'initial dip' in pO(2) and a biphasic NADH response (oxidation followed by reduction). The oxidizing phase of the NADH response was mitochondrial as it was synchronous with the 'initial' dip in pO(2). Following slow graded reductions in ambient oxygen levels to 8%, four of seven slices developed hsd following synaptic stimulation. The hypoxic threshold for graded oxygen reductions occurred at 7.9+/-5.8 mm Hg O(2) (n=7). Our hypoxic threshold range (6.7-7.9 mm Hg O(2) from abrupt and graded oxygen reduction, respectively) correlates well with reported in vivo values of &lt;12 mm Hg O(2). The major findings of this study include: 1) determination of the critical physiological threshold of pO(2) (based upon hsd), which is a marker of imminent neuronal death if oxygen is not rapidly restored; 2) NADH hyperoxidation and an increase in pO(2) beyond baseline levels following longer periods of hypoxia; and 3) the occurrence of a pO(2) 'dip' during synaptic stimulation, which correlates with the early oxidizing phase of the biphasic NADH response.
We previously found that the methanol extract of a marine brown alga, Sargassum macrocarpum showed marked nerve growth factor (NGF)-dependent neurite outgrowth promoting activity to PC12D cells. The active substance purified was elucidated to be sargachromenol. The median effective dose (ED50) was 9 microM against PC12D cells in the presence of 10 ng/ml NGF, although it showed no neurotrophic effect on its own. Pretreatment of cells with protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor or U0126 substantially suppressed the sargachromenol-enhanced neurite outgrowth from PC12D cells, suggesting that the activation of cyclic AMP-mediated protein kinase and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase 1/2 was apparently required for the action of sargachromenol. On the other hand, sargachromenol significantly promoted the survival of neuronal PC12D cells at 0-50 ng/ml NGF in serum-free medium. Neither PKA inhibitor nor U0126 could inhibit the survival supporting effect of sargachromenol, whereas wortmannin significantly blocked the sargachromenol-induced survival supporting effect on neuronal PC12D cells, suggesting that sargachromenol rescued neuronal PC12D cells by activating phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase. These results demonstrate that sargachromenol promotes neuronal differentiation of PC12D cells and supports the survival of neuronal PC12D cells via two distinct signaling pathways.
The inflammatory response accompanies and exacerbates the developing injury after cerebral ischemia. Ibuprofen, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, has been shown to attenuate injuries in animal models of various neurological diseases. In the present study, we investigated ibuprofen's neuroprotective effects in rats exposed to transient forebrain ischemia and in cultures exposed to oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD). Rats treated with ibuprofen after transient forebrain ischemia displayed long-lasting protection of CA1 hippocampal neurons. There were selective increases in interleukin-1 receptor antagonist gene and protein expression in ibuprofen-treated OGD microglia. Furthermore, treatment with ibuprofen in neuron/microglia co-cultures increased the number of surviving HC2S2 neurons against OGD whereas IL-1ra neutralizing antibody reversed the ibuprofen-induced neuroprotection. The data indicate that ibuprofen-induced IL-1ra secretion is involved in neuroprotection against ischemic conditions.
A large amount of aging individuals show diminished cognitive and endocrine capabilities. The main brain areas involved in these changes are the hippocampus and hypothalamus, two regions possessing high plasticity and implicated in cognitive and endocrine functions, respectively. Among neurotrophins (considered as genuine molecular mediators of synaptic plasticity), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) exhibits in adult rats, the highest concentrations in the hippocampus and hypothalamus. Most of neuronal effects of BDNF are mediated through high-affinity cell surface BDNF tyrosine kinase receptors (TrkB). Different TrkB isoforms are issued by alternative splicing of mRNA encoding for TrkB (trkB mRNA) generating at least three different TrkB receptors with different signaling capabilities. The goal of this study was to examine simultaneously the expression (mRNAs and proteins) of BDNF and its three specific receptors, in the hippocampus and hypothalamus throughout lifespan in rats. We observed that BDNF essentially increased during the first 2 postnatal weeks in the hippocampus and hypothalamus, with no close correlation to its mRNA levels. In these regions, mRNA encoding for BDNF full-length catalytic receptor (trkB.FL mRNA) showed no important changes throughout life but of the mRNA truncated forms of TrkB receptors (trkB.T1 mRNA and trkB.T2 mRNA) trkB.T1 mRNA strongly increased after birth, then remaining stable during aging. trkB.T2 mRNA gradually decreased from 1 postnatal week becoming undetectable in the hippocampus in old-rats. Proteins issued from these mRNAs showed substantial quantitative modifications with aging. From 2 months old, the BDNF full-length catalytic receptor (TrkB.FL) gradually and significantly decreased in the hippocampus and the hypothalamus. Of the truncated forms of TrkB receptors (TrkB.T1 and TrkB.T2) TrkB.T1, which is essentially localized in glial cells, significantly increased from the first postnatal week in the hippocampus and in the hypothalamus, remaining stable during aging but reduced in old rats. TrkB.T2 which similarly to TrkB.FL has a neuronal localization also gradually decreased in the hippocampus and in the hypothalamus throughout lifespan. These reductions were significant at 21 and 30 days old, respectively. All the changes reported here could contribute to the reduced plasticity of these regions observed in old rats.
The receptor tyrosine kinase, ret, is activated by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, neurturin and related ligands that bind to glycosylphosphatidylinositol-tailed receptors GFRalpha1-4. Ret expression is developmentally regulated and detectable only at very low levels in adult adrenal medulla. However, mutations of ret that cause constitutive activation or alter signal transduction give rise to adrenal medullary hyperplasia and pheochromocytomas in humans with hereditary multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) syndromes 2A and 2B and in animal models. These discordant observations pose the conundrum of how a molecule barely detectable in the adult adrenal can contribute to development of adrenal medullary pathology that typically occurs in adults. We recently reported that depolarization and phorbol esters that activate protein kinase C act synergistically with neurturin to up-regulate ret protein and mRNA expression in adult rat chromaffin cell cultures. Those findings suggested that ret expression in vivo is not static and might be regulated in part by neurally derived signals. We show here that the anti-hypertensive agent reserpine, which is known to cause a reflex increase in trans-synaptic stimulation of chromaffin cells, increases expression of ret mRNA and protein in adult rat adrenal medullary tissue in vivo. Elevated ret protein levels are detectable both by immunoblots and immunohistochemistry, which shows immunoreactive ret in chromaffin cells and neurons after reserpine administration. The finding that ret expression is subject to up-regulation by environmental signals in vivo suggests that epigenetic factors might influence the development of adrenal medullary disease by affecting the expression of ret. It is known that long-term administration of reserpine leads to the development of adrenal medullary hyperplasia and pheochromocytomas in rats. Our findings suggest potential utility of the rat model for studying the roles of ret in the adrenal medulla and the mechanisms of its involvement in MEN 2 and other pheochromocytoma syndromes.
After peripheral nerve injury, axotomized sensory neurons in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) undergo apoptosis and up-regulate brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We tested whether endogenous BDNF plays any role in the survival of axotomized sensory neurons using in vitro and in vivo models. In the in vitro model, treatment with BDNF antibody significantly reduced apoptosis of sensory neurons in DRG explants from both adult and neonate rats and adult mice cultured for 48 h. Consistently, exogenous BDNF increased the percentage of apoptotic neurons in the DRGs from mice. The effects of the BDNF antibody and BDNF were not seen in DRGs from p75NTR(-/-) mice. In the in vivo model, sciatic nerve transection in neonatal rats decreased the total number of neurons in the injured DRG and treatment with antiserum to BDNF significantly exaggerated the loss of DRG neurons. Numbers of sensory neurons expressing BDNF and p75NTR in cultured DRGs increased but that expressing TrkB decreased. In contrast, sciatic nerve transection in vivo reduced the numbers of neurons expressing both p75NTR and TrkB but increased the numbers of cells expressing BDNF, 1 and 7 days after the surgery. These results suggest that BDNF may have differential effects on the survival of sensory neurons depending on the expression of p75NTR. While endogenous BDNF induced apoptosis of axotomized sensory neurons through p75NTR in vitro where more neurons expressed p75NTR, it prevented apoptosis in vivo where fewer neurons expressed p75NTR after sciatic nerve transection.
Estrogen exerts many of its receptor-mediated neuroprotective functions through the activation of various intracellular signal transduction pathways including the mitogen activating protein kinase (MAPK), phospho inositol-3 kinase and protein kinase C pathways. Here we have used a hippocampal slice culture model of kainic acid-induced neurotoxic cell death to show that estrogen can protect against oxidative cell death. We have previously shown that MAPK and glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) are involved in the cell death/cell survival induced by kainic acid. In this model and other cellular and in vivo models we have shown that estrogen can also cause the phosphorylation and hence inactivation of GSK-3beta, a known mediator of neuronal cell death. The effect of estrogen on GSK-3beta activity is estrogen receptor mediated. Further, this estrogen/GSK-3beta interaction may have functional consequences in cellular models of some key pathogenic pathways associated with Alzheimer's disease. More specifically, estrogen affects the basal levels of tau phosphorylation at a site known to be phosphorylated by GSK-3beta. Taken together, these data indicate a novel molecular and functional link between estrogen and GSK-3beta and may have implications for estrogen receptor modulation as a target for the prevention of neurodegenerative disorders.
Adenosine protects neurons during hypoxia by inhibiting excitatory synaptic transmission and preventing NMDA receptor activation. Using an adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector containing Cre recombinase, we have focally deleted adenosine A(1) receptors in specific hippocampal regions of adult mice. Recently, we found that deletion of A(1) receptors in the CA1 area blocks the postsynaptic responses to adenosine in CA1 pyramidal neurons, and deletion of A(1) receptors in CA3 neurons abolishes the presynaptic effects of adenosine on the Schaffer collateral input [J Neurosci 23 (2003) 5762]. In the current study, we used this technique to delete A(1) receptors focally from CA3 neurons to investigate whether presynaptic A(1) receptors protect synaptic transmission from hypoxia. We studied the effects of prolonged (1 h) hypoxia on the evoked field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) in the CA1 region using in vitro slices. Focal deletion of the presynaptic A(1) receptors on the Schaffer collateral input slowed the depression of the fEPSPs in response to hypoxia and impaired the recovery of the fEPSPs after hypoxia. Delayed responses to hypoxia linearly correlated with impaired recovery. These findings provide direct evidence that the neuroprotective role of adenosine during hypoxia depends on the rapid inhibition of synaptic transmission by the activation of presynaptic A(1) receptors.
The extracellular signal-regulated kinase1/2 (ERK1/2) pathway has a key role in cell survival and brain plasticity, processes that are impaired following exposure to stressful situations. We have recently validated two repeated intermittent stress procedures in male NMRI mice, social threat and repeated exposure to a novel cage, which result in clear behavioral effects following 4 weeks of application. The present results demonstrate that both repeated intermittent stress procedures alter the activity of the ERK1/2 pathway in the brain, as shown by changes in phosphorylated ERK1/2 (phospho-ERK1/2) protein expression and in the expression of downstream proteins: phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), in the hippocampus, the frontal cortex and the hypothalamus. The hippocampus showed greater responsiveness to stress as the two stressors increased phospho-ERK1/2 and BDNF expression under acute condition. Following repeated stress, hyperphosphorylation of ERK1/2 was associated with up-regulation of hippocampal BDNF expression in the social threat group but not in mice exposed to novel cage. This lack of a pro-survival effect of ERK1/2 with repeated novel cage exposure may constitute an early event in stress-mediated brain pathology. The sustained BDNF up-regulation in the hippocampi of mice subjected to repeated social threat could be related to rewarding aspects of aggressive interactions, suggested by our previous studies.
The neural plasticity associated with behavioral sensitization following repeated administration of a psychostimulant methamphetamine (METH) is thought to require synthesis of new proteins. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of p70-S6 kinase (p70-S6K) phosphorylation, which contributes to the selective translation of a unique family of mRNA, in mediating both the METH-induced rewarding effect and its sensitization. An intra-nucleus accumbens (N.Acc.) pre-injection with 0.025 pmol/rat of a selective p70-S6K inhibitor rapamycin failed to affect the METH-induced conditioned place preference. However, this treatment clearly abolished the development of sensitization of the METH-induced conditioned place preference. Consistent with the behavioral assay, the level of the immunoreactivity of phosporylated-p70-S6K was not changed in the cytosolic fraction of the N.Acc. obtained from rats that had revealed the METH-induced rewarding effect. In contrast, the immunoreactivities in the cytosolic preparation for Western blotting and immunohistochemical density of phosphorylated-p70-S6K were significantly increased in the N.Acc. obtained from METH-sensitized rats as compared with those with chronic saline treatment. However, the immunoreactivities of phosphorylated-extracellular signal-regulated kinase and phosphorylated-ribosomal S6 protein were not significantly altered in the N.Acc. under the same condition. The present data provide evidence for the change in the translation rate, which can be regulated by S6K phosphorylation, in the N.Acc. during the development of sensitization to METH-induced rewarding effects in rats.
Neuronal function and morphology are affected by the environment and the behavioral experience. Here we report on the effects of differential training protocols on the development and the functional recovery mediated by intrastriatal striatal grafts. Rats were trained exclusively on the left or the right paw to perform on the skilled staircase task before being lesioned unilaterally in the dorsal striatum with quinolinic acid. E15 whole ganglionic eminence suspension grafts were implanted into the lesioned striatum. Subsequent testing probed unilateral performance of the affected contralateral paw, as well as bilateral performance. The grafted animals were initially as impaired as the lesioned, but partially recovered their performance with additional training. Grafted animals with appropriate previous experience initially performed better on the staircase test, but the advantage was transient. Furthermore, the grafted animals performed better with their affected paw under forced choice than under conditions when both paws were simultaneously probed. Improvements of the grafted animals were also observed on tests of forelimb akinesia and asymmetry. Morphological data suggest that the training conditions influenced the development specifically of striatal-like, but not of non-striatal like, neurones within the grafts. The grafts were smaller containing less striatal-like neurones in animals that were trained on the contralateral side prior to lesioning and grafting. The results support the hypothesis that unilateral training sensitizes the striatum that subserves the motor learning, leading to exacerbated excitotoxic lesions and to an environment less conducive for graft development.
To examine the sex difference in the 24-h profile of the acetylcholine (ACh) release in the hippocampus, in addition to the effects of housing conditions on this profile, we performed an in vivo microdialysis study in intact male and cycling female rats that had been living in large (diameter=35 cm) or small (diameter=19 cm) cylindrical cages. Each rat was individually housed in a cage for 4 days. On the day of the experiment, the dialysate was collected from the dorsal hippocampus at 20-min intervals and sequential blood samples were simultaneously obtained at 2-h intervals, under the freely moving condition for more than 24 h. ACh in the dialysates was measured by the high performance liquid chromatography system, while the corticosterone concentration in the serum was measured by radiostereoassay. Although the ACh release showed a clear daily rhythm in both sexes of rats, the amount of ACh released in female rats was significantly lower than that in males. Furthermore, the housing in the small cage significantly attenuated the ACh release during the dark phase in male rats, but not in female rats. Conversely, the serum corticosterone concentration showed a clear daily rhythm and the mean concentration of serum corticosterone in female rats was significantly higher than that in male rats. Housing in the small cage did not affect the corticosterone rhythm in either sex. These results reveal a sex difference in the 24-h profile of the ACh release, which suggests vulnerability of the cholinergic system in male rats depending on its housing conditions.
Despite strong evidence supporting a role for sleep in the consolidation of newly acquired declarative memories, the contribution of specific sleep stages remains controversial. Based on electrophysiological studies in animals, synchronous sleep oscillations have been long proposed as possible origins of sleep-related memory improvement. Nevertheless, no studies to date have directly investigated the impact of sleep oscillations on overnight memory retention in humans. In the present study we provide evidence that overnight verbal memory retention is highly correlated with the number of sleep spindles detected by an automatic algorithm over left frontocentral areas. At the same time, overnight retention of newly learned faces was found to be independent of spindle activity but correlated with non-rapid-eye-movement sleep time. The data strongly support theories suggesting a link between sleep spindle activity and verbal memory consolidation.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei of the anterior hypothalamus serve as the principal pacemaker of the mammalian circadian system. Among its efferent targets are the habenular nucleus (Hb), especially the lateral Hb (LHb), which plays an important role in conveying input from the limbic forebrain to midbrain structures. We recorded extracellularly from single neurons in the LHb and medial Hb (MHb), both in vivo and using an in vitro slice preparation, to assess their responses to retinal illumination and the rhythmicity of their firing rates. Of cells recorded in the LHb, 42% were tonically activated or suppressed by retinal illumination, while significantly fewer cells recorded in the MHb responded to retinal illumination (19%). Of photically responsive cells, 68% in the LHb were activated and the remainder suppressed, while only 25% of those recorded in the MHb were activated. Cells in both the LHb and MHb showed higher baseline firing rates during the day than during the night in vivo, while photic responses were of significantly larger amplitude among LHb cells during the projected night than during the projected day. LHb cells recorded in vitro maintained their rhythmicity for two circadian cycles, but MHb cells did not show a rhythm in vitro. The habenula may play a role in linking circadian and motivational systems and may contribute to photic regulation of these systems, as well as to the rhythmicity of their function.
As the physiological role of fos-related antigen-2 (Fra-2) is largely unknown and since the pineal plays an important role in the photoperiodic control of the body, we have tested the hypothesis that Fra-2 expression is photoperiod-dependent and may be involved in imprinting photoperiod on the pineal gland and the body as a whole. To this end, we have investigated Fra-2 mRNA expression and Fra-2 protein expression under various light/dark (LD) cycles. A clear nocturnal increase occurs for both monitored parameters under all photoperiodic conditions studied. The level of Fra-2 protein expression clearly depends on photoperiod, because the amount of protein at dark onset and during the night negatively correlates with the length of the photoperiod. Further, high-phosphorylated Fra-2 isoforms are abundant under all photoperiods tested, with the exception of LD 20:4. Because Fra-2 phosphorylation depends on cGMP, a depressed cGMP response to adrenergic stimulation under LD 20:4 appears to explain this finding. We conclude that photoperiod is imprinted on Fra-2 in terms of both protein amount and protein phosphorylation in the rat pineal gland. This imprinting becomes fully manifest after about 7 days only, suggesting that a number of altered photoperiodic cycles are required for pineal Fra-2 to &quot;learn&quot; that the photoperiod has changed. Reportedly, Fra-2 limits expression of the enzyme iodothyronine deiodinase type II, which catalyzes the intracellular deiodination of thyroxine prohormone to the active 3,3',5-triiodothyronine. We have found that the extent of Fra-2 expression inversely correlates with the dII gene response to cAMP; hence the photoperiodic regulation of Fra-2 may affect the body by changing pineal thyroid hormone metabolism.
By its projections to the primary visual and the prefrontal cortices, the basal forebrain cholinergic system is involved in cognitive processing of sensory stimuli. It has been suggested that visual stimulus-induced cholinergic activation of the visual cortex may exert a permissive role on thalamocortical inputs. However, it is not known if visual stimulation elicits cholinergic activation of high-order brain areas in the absence of attentional need. In the present study, we measured the effects of patterned visual stimulation (horizontal grating) on the release of acetylcholine with dual-probe in vivo microdialysis in the visual and the prefrontal cortices of anesthetized rats. We also used retrograde tracing to determine the anatomical relationships of cholinergic neurons with neurons of the visual system and the prefrontal cortex. Finally, we evaluated a functional correlate of this stimulation, namely c-fos immunolabeling. Patterned visual stimulation elicited significant increases in acetylcholine release in the visual cortex, accompanied by an increased number of c-fos immunoreactive neurons in this brain area. In contrast, in the prefrontal cortex, neither the level of acetylcholine release nor the number of c-fos immunoreactive neurons was significantly changed because of the stimulation. Cholinergic basal forebrain neurons projecting to the visual or the prefrontal cortices were both localized within the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca but were not immunoreactive for c-fos during visual stimulation. No parts of the visual system were found to directly project to these basal forebrain neurons. These results suggest the differential involvement of cholinergic projections in the integration of sensory stimuli, depending on the level of activity of the targeted cortical area.
cDNA microarray analysis indicated that COL9A1 and COL9A3 are highly expressed in the human inner ear, suggesting that type IX collagen has a crucial functional role in the inner ear. This study further confirmed, by means of real-time PCR, the presence of collagen type IX genes in the mouse inner ear. Immunocytochemical analysis also revealed that type IX collagen is distributed in the tectorial membrane, where it co-localizes with type II collagen, indicating that type IX collagen may contribute to the three-dimensional integrated structure of type II collagen molecules. Mice with targeted disruption of the col9a1 gene were shown through assessment by auditory brain stem response to have hearing loss, suggesting an important role of type IX collagen in maintaining normal hearing. At the light microscopic level, the tectorial membrane of knock-out mice was found to be abnormal in shape, and electron microscopy confirmed disturbance of organization of the collagen fibrils. An antibody against type II collagen failed to detect type II collagen in the tectorial membrane of type IX collagen knock-out mice, suggesting that a lack of type IX collagen may affect the three-dimensional structure of type II collagen molecules. These findings indicate that genes encoding each chain of type IX collagen may fulfill an important function associated with the tectorial membrane in the auditory system.
A nociceptive role for tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in naive mice and in mice with fibrosarcoma tumor-induced primary hyperalgesia was investigated. The presence of TNF-alpha mRNA was confirmed in tumor site homogenates by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and examination of TNF-alpha protein levels in tumor-bearing mice indicated a significantly higher concentration of this cytokine in tumor microperfusates and tumor site homogenates compared with that obtained from a similar site on the contralateral limb or in naive mice. Intraplantar injection of TNF-alpha into naive or fibrosarcoma tumor-bearing mice induced mechanical hypersensitivity, as measured by withdrawal responses evoked by von Frey monofilaments. This hypersensitivity suggests that TNF-alpha can excite or sensitize primary afferent fibers to mechanical stimulation in both naive and tumor-bearing mice. In addition, the hyperalgesia produced by TNF-alpha was completely eliminated when the injected TNF-alpha was pre-incubated with the soluble receptor antagonist TNFR:Fc. Importantly, pre-implantation systemic as well as post-implantation intra-tumor injection of TNFR:Fc partially blocked the mechanical hyperalgesia, indicating that local production of TNF-alpha may contribute to tumor-induced nociception.
The mammalian biological clock, located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), is crucial for circadian rhythms in physiology and behavior. However, equivocal findings have been reported on its role in the circadian regulation of body temperature. The goal of the present studies was to investigate the interaction between the SCN and environmental light in the regulation of body temperature. All recordings were performed by telemetry in free moving male Wistar rats. Firstly, we demonstrated an endogenous circadian rhythm in body temperature independent of locomotor activity. This rhythm was abolished by stereotactic lesioning of the SCN. Secondly, we demonstrated a circadian phase-dependent suppressive effect of light ('negative masking') on body temperature. Light suppressed body temperature more at the end of the subjective night (circadian time [CT] 22) than in the middle (CT 6) and at the end (CT 10) of the subjective day. This circadian-phase dependent suppression was not demonstrated in SCN-lesioned animals. Surprisingly, after half a year of recovery from lesioning of the SCN, light regained its suppressing action on body temperature, resulting in a daily body temperature rhythm only under light-dark conditions. In contrast to body temperature, light could not substantially mimic a daytime inhibitory SCN-output in the regulation of heart rate and locomotor activity. The present results suggest that, after lesioning of the SCN as main relay station for the immediate body temperature-inhibition by light, secondary relay nuclei can fully take over this function of the SCN. These findings provide a possible explanation for the controversy in literature over the question whether the SCN is required for the diurnal rhythm in body temperature. Furthermore, they show that light may have an acute effect on behavior and physiology of the organism via the SCN, which extends beyond the generally acknowledged effect on melatonin secretion.
Renin-angiotensin (Ang) system (RAS) peptides injected into the periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) elicit antinociception. Saralasin blocks Ang II-elicited antinociception. Thus, it is possible that endogenous RAS peptides could participate on the modulation of nociception in the PAG. This possibility was tested here injecting, in the PAG, the specific Ang type 1 and type 2 receptor (AT1 receptor and AT(2 receptor) antagonists losartan and CGP42,112A, respectively, either alone or before Ang II. The effects of Ang II, losartan and CGP42,112A on nociception were measured using the tail flick test and the model of incision allodynia. Ang II increased tail-flick latency, an effect inhibited by both losartan and CGP42,112A. Ang II reduced incisional allodynia. Either losartan or CGP42,112A alone increased incision allodynia, suggesting that endogenous Ang II and/or an Ang-peptide participates in the control of allodynia by the PAG. AT1 and AT2 receptors were immunolocalized in neuronal cell bodies and processes in the ventrolateral PAG. Taken together, the antinociceptive effect of Ang II injection into the ventrolateral PAG, the increase of allodynia elicited by injecting either losartan or CGP42,112A alone in the PAG, and the presence of AT1 and AT2 receptors in neurons and neuronal processes in the same region, represent the first evidence that part of the tonic nociceptive control mediated by the PAG is carried out locally by endogenous Ang II and/or an Ang-peptide acting on AT1 and AT2 receptors.
In this study we use nystatin perforated-patch and conventional whole-cell recording to characterize the biophysical properties of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS)-expressing paraganglion neurons from the rat glossopharyngeal nerve (GPN), that are thought to provide NO-mediated efferent inhibition of carotid body chemoreceptors. These GPN neurons occur in two populations, a proximal one near the bifurcation of the GPN and the carotid sinus nerve, and a more distal one located further along the GPN. Both populations were visualized in whole mounts by vital staining with the styryl pyridinium dye, 4-Di-2-ASP (D289). Following isolation in vitro, proximal and distal neurons had similar input resistances (mean: 1.5 and 1.6 GOmega, respectively), input capacitances (mean: 25.0 and 27.4 pF, respectively), and resting potentials (mean: -53.9 and -53.3 mV, respectively). All neurons had similar voltage-dependent currents composed of: tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive Na+ currents (IC50 approximately 0.2 microM), prolonged and transient Ca2+ currents, and delayed rectifier-type K+ currents. Threshold activation for the Na+ currents was approximately -30 mV and they were inactivated within 10 ms. Inward Ca2+ currents consisted of nifedipine-sensitive L-type, omega-agatoxin IVA-sensitive P/Q-type, omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive N-type, SNX-482-sensitive R-type, and Ni2+-sensitive, but SNX-482-insensitive, T-type channels. The voltage-dependent outward K+ currents were sensitive to tetraethylammonium (TEA; 10 mM) and 4-aminopyridine (4-AP; 2 mM). Exposure to a chemosensory stimulus, hypoxia (PO2 range: 80-5 Torr), caused a dose-dependent decrease in K+ current which persisted in the presence of TEA and 4-AP, consistent with the involvement of background K+ channels. Under current clamp, GPN neurons generated TTX-sensitive action potentials, and in spontaneously active neurons, hypoxia caused membrane depolarization and an increase in firing frequency. These properties endow GPN neurons with an exquisite ability to regulate carotid body chemoreceptor function during hypoxia, via voltage-gated Ca2+-entry, activation of nNOS, and release of NO.
The arcuate nucleus/ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (ARC/VMH) region is thought to relay estrogen feedback signals to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) cells in the sheep brain. This region sends major projections to the lateral preoptic area (lPOA), ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminals (vBnST) and the ventro-caudal division of the median preoptic nucleus (vcMePON) with little direct input to GnRH cell bodies, suggesting interneuronal relay to GnRH neurons. The brain stem also provides input to the POA. The present study aimed to identify possible relay circuits in the POA and BnST to GnRH neurons. Biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) was injected into lPOA (n=6), vBnST (n=2), vcMePON (n=3) and periventricular nucleus (PeriV; n=1) of ewes for anterograde tracing. GnRH immunoreactive (IR) perikarya appearing to receive input from BDA-containing varicosities were identified by fluorescence microscopy, with further analysis by confocal microscopy. When BDA was injected into rostral and caudal regions of lPOA (n=3), no tracer-filled varicose fibers were found in contact with GnRH-IR perikarya. Injections into the center of the lPOA (n=3) indicated direct projections to GnRH-IR cells. Injections into the vBnST, vcMePON and PeriV indicated that cells of these regions also provide input to GnRH cells. BDA-containing varicosities found in the MPOA were immunoreactive for NPY or were GABAergic or glutamatergic when the tracer was injected into vBnST and lPOA, but not when injections were placed in the vcMePON. With injection into the PeriV, tracer-filled varicosities in the MPOA were not immunoreactive for somatostatin or enkephalin. Injection of FluoroGold into ventral POA retrogradely labeled cells in the above mentioned areas, but few were also immunoreactive for estrogen receptor-alpha. Thus, cells of the vBnST, lPOA, vcMePON and PeriV project to GnRH neurons. These cells may provide an interneuronal route to GnRH neurons from the ARC/VMH, the brain stem and other regions of the brain.
Long-term l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) treatment in Parkinson's disease leads to dyskinesias in the majority of patients. The underlying molecular mechanisms for L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) are currently unclear. However, the findings that there are alterations in opioid peptide mRNA and protein expression and that opioid ligands modulate dyskinesias suggest that the opioid system may be involved. To further understand its role in dyskinesias, we mapped opioid receptor-stimulated G-protein activation using [35S]guanylyl-5'-O-(gamma-thio)-triphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) autoradiography in the basal ganglia of normal and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned squirrel monkeys administered water or L-DOPA. Subtype-selective opioid receptor G-protein coupling was investigated using the mu-opioid agonist [D-Ala, N-Me-Phe, Gly-ol]-enkephalin, delta-agonist SNC80 and kappa-agonist U50488H. Our data show that mu-opioid receptor-mediated G-protein activation is significantly enhanced in the basal ganglia and cortex of L-DOPA-treated dyskinetic monkeys, whereas delta- and kappa-receptor-induced increases were limited to only a few regions. A similar pattern of enhancement was observed in both MPTP-lesioned and unlesioned animals with LIDs suggesting the effect was not simply due to a compromised nigrostriatal system. Opioid receptor G-protein coupling was not enhanced in non-dyskinetic L-DOPA-treated animals, or lesioned monkeys not given L-DOPA. The increases in opioid-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding are directly correlated with dyskinesias. The present data demonstrate an enhanced subtype-selective opioid-receptor G-protein coupling in the basal ganglia of monkeys with LIDs. The positive correlation with LIDs suggests this may represent an intracellular signaling mechanism underlying these movement abnormalities.
Diazepam (DZ) and phenobarbital (PH) are commonly used to treat early-life seizures and act on GABAA receptors (GABAR). The developing GABAergic system is highly plastic, and the long-term effects of postnatal treatment with these drugs on the GABAergic system has not been extensively examined. In the present study, we investigated the effects of prolonged DZ and PH treatment during postnatal development and then discontinuation on expression of a variety of genes involved in GABAergic neurotransmission during adulthood. Rat pups were treated with DZ, PH or vehicle from postnatal day (P) 10-P40 and then the dose was tapered for 2 weeks and terminated at P55. Expression of GABAR subunits, GABAB receptor subunits, GABA transporters (GAT) and GABA synthesizing enzymes (glutamic acid decarboxylase: GAD) mRNAs in hippocampal dentate granule neurons (DGNs) were analyzed using antisense RNA amplification at P90. Protein levels for the alpha1 subunit of GABAR, GAD67, GAT1 and 3 were also assessed using Western blotting. At P90, mRNA expression for GAT-1, 3, 4, GABAR subunits alpha4, alpha6, beta3, delta and theta and GABAB receptor subunit R1 was increased and mRNA expression for GAD65, GAD67 and GABAR subunits alpha1 and alpha3 were decreased in DGNs of rats treated with DZ and PH. The current data suggest that prolonged DZ and PH treatment during postnatal development causes permanent alterations in the expression of hippocampal GABA receptor subunits, GATs and GAD long after therapy has ended.
Prenatal nicotine exposure is associated with an increased risk of complications during pregnancy and childhood. In this study the expression of nicotinic and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in first trimester pons, medulla oblongata and cerebellum from abortus (5-12 weeks of gestation) of smoking and nonsmoking women was compared. A significant age-related increase in binding of nicotinic receptor subtype alpha4 was found in both pons and cerebellum only in fetal tissue from non-smoking women, while a similar increase was observed in medulla oblongata from fetuses exposed to smoking. A significant age-related increase in binding of muscarinic receptor subtype m2 was observed in pons from abortus of smoking compared with non-smoking women. The gene expression pattern of both alpha4 and alpha7 nicotinic receptor subunits was changed after smoking in all three regions investigated. Smoking also changed the expression of m1 and 2 muscarinic receptor mRNA in pons, m1 mRNA in cerebellum and the m3 mRNA in medulla oblongata. The findings indicate that early prenatal nicotine exposure affects the normal developmental pattern of the cholinergic system in human fetal brain.
Studies in rats and mice have shown several sex-dependent functional and structural differences in the hippocampal region, a brain structure playing a key role in learning and memory. The aim of the present study was to establish whether sex differences exist prior to puberty in the stereological parameters of the dentate gyrus in the guinea-pig, a long-gestation rodent, whose brain is at a more advanced stage of maturation at birth than the rat and mouse. The number of granule cells and volumes of the granule cell layer, molecular layer and hilus were evaluated in Nissl-stained brains of neonatal (15-16 days old) and peripubescent (45-46 days old) guinea-pigs. Based on a pilot study, the optical disector method was preferred to the optical fractionator method to estimate cell number. For volume (Vref) estimation with the Cavalieri principle, contour tracing was preferred to the point counting method, as the latter appeared to underestimate volumes. The results showed that neonatal males had more granule cells than females in both the dorsal and ventral dentate gyrus and a larger volume in all layers. Peripubescent males had a larger volume of the granule cell layer than females in both the dorsal and ventral dentate gyrus, more granule cells in the ventral dentate gyrus, a larger volume of the hilus in both the dorsal and ventral dentate gyrus and a larger volume of the molecular layer in the ventral dentate gyrus. The results show that sex differences are present in the guinea-pig dentate gyrus prior to puberty and go in the same direction at both investigated ages, with males exhibiting more granule cells and larger volumes than females. The widespread distribution of these sex differences suggests that in the guinea-pig, similarly to other rodents, hippocampus-dependent functions may be sexually dimorphic.
Evidence suggests that for relatively weak sensory stimuli, cocaine elevates background haemodynamic parameters but still allows enhanced neural responses to be reflected in enhanced haemodynamic responses. The current study investigated the possibility that for more intense stimuli, the raised background may produce a protracted attenuation of the haemodynamic response. Three experiments were performed to measure effects of i.v. cocaine administration (0.5 mg/kg) or saline on responses in rat barrel cortex to electrical stimulation of the whisker pad. The first experiment used optical imaging spectroscopy (OIS) and laser Doppler flowmetry (LDF) to measure haemodynamic changes. Cocaine caused an increase in baseline blood flow (peak approximately 90%), which lasted for the duration of the test period (25 min). Haemodynamic responses to whisker stimulation were substantially reduced throughout. The second experiment used a 16-channel multi-electrode to measure evoked potentials at 100 mum intervals through the barrel cortex. Summed neural responses (collapsed across the spatial dimension) after cocaine administration were similar to those after saline. The third experiment extended experiment 1 by examining the effects of cocaine on whisker sensory responses using functional magnetic resonance imaging (and concurrent OIS or LDF). Cocaine caused a similar increase in baseline and reduction in the evoked response to that seen in experiment 1. Together, the results of these three experiments show that cocaine produces a protracted decoupling of neural activity and haemodynamic responses to intense sensory stimulation, which suggests that imaging techniques based on changes in haemodynamic parameters may be unsuitable for studying the effects of cocaine on sensory processing in humans.
Attentional processing is a crucial early stage in cognition and is subject to &quot;top-down&quot; regulation by prefrontal cortex (PFC). Top-down regulation involves modification of input processing in cortical and subcortical areas, including the posterior parietal cortex (PPC). Cortical cholinergic inputs, originating from the basal forebrain cholinergic system, have been demonstrated to mediate important aspects of attentional processing. The present study investigated the ability of cholinergic and glutamatergic transmission within PFC to regulate acetylcholine (ACh) release in PPC. The first set of experiments demonstrated increases in ACh efflux in PPC following AMPA administration into the PFC. These increases were antagonized by co-administration of the AMPA receptor antagonist DNQX into the PFC. The second set of experiments demonstrated that administration of carbachol, but not nicotine, into the PFC also increased ACh efflux in PPC. The effects of carbachol were attenuated by co-administration (into PFC) of a muscarinic antagonist (atropine) and partially attenuated by the nicotine antagonist mecamylamine and DNQX. Perfusion of carbachol, nicotine, or AMPA into the PPC did not affect PFC ACh efflux, suggesting that these cortical interactions are not bi-directional. These studies demonstrate the capacity of the PFC to regulate ACh release in the PPC via glutamatergic and cholinergic prefrontal mechanisms. Prefrontal regulation of ACh release elsewhere in the cortex is hypothesized to contribute to the cognitive optimization of input processing.
Vigabatrin, an inhibitor of GABA breakdown by GABA transaminase and of GABA transporter isoform 1 (GAT1), and tiagabine, a highly specific inhibitor of GAT1, have successfully been applied in the treatment of epilepsy. We investigated the effects of individual and combined application of these drugs on GAT1 expressed in Xenopus oocytes, and examined the effects on epileptiform discharges in the CA3 area of brain slices of genetically epileptic El and control ddY mice, and on the occurrence of seizures in El mice. Simultaneous application of vigabatrin and tiagabine inhibited epileptiform discharges induced by high-K+ solution in the brain slices in an antagonistic fashion. The degree of inhibition by tiagabine after pre-treatment with vigabatrin was additive in ddY mice and synergistic in El mice. In Mg2+-free solution, co-treatment by the two drugs produced additive inhibition in slices from both mouse strains, but pre-treatment with vigabatrin produced synergistic inhibition in slices only from ddY mice. In the slices from El mice, a combination of drugs resulted in additive effects in both co- and pre-treatment by the drugs. Although these drugs are also effective in vivo at suppressing seizure occurrence in El mice, the combined application does not show synergistic effects, but rather is antagonistic under the experimental conditions in this particular variant of epilepsy. The synergistic inhibition of epileptiform discharges in brain slices may, in part, have originated from the complex interaction with GAT1. In experiments on the GAT1 expressed in oocytes it could be demonstrated that synergistic inhibition occurs only at low concentration (0.1 nM) of vigabatrin. This illustrates that the oocytes may form a powerful test system for drug screening and investigation of complex drug interactions. These results present a novel interpretation of synergistic inhibition of certain epileptic discharges using vigabatrin and another drug, and that for successful synergistic treatment of epilepsies carefully designed timed dosage regimens are essential.
Exposure to cigarette smoke is a risk factor for the sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), but the ability to distinguish between the neuropathological effects of pre- versus postnatal exposure is limited in the clinical setting. To test whether postnatal nicotine exposure could contribute to the increased neuronal expression of apoptotic markers that we have previously observed in SIDS infants, as well as including study of gender influences, we developed a piglet model to mimic passive smoking in the early postnatal period. Piglets were exposed to nicotine (2 mg/kg/day infused via an implanted osmotic minipump) within 48 h of birth until the age of 13-14 days, when the brain was collected for study. Four piglet groups included: control females (n=7), control males (n=7), nicotine females (n=7), and nicotine males (n=7). Apoptotic markers included immunohistochemistry for activated caspase-3, and for DNA fragmentation or terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) in seven nuclei of the brainstem caudal medulla and two subregions of the hippocampus (CA4 and dentate gyrus). Among control females compared with males, there was less active caspase-3 and less TUNEL in the dorsal motor nucleus of vagus (DMNV), and there was less TUNEL in the nucleus of the spinal trigeminal tract (NSTT). Compared with controls, nicotine-exposed male piglets had increased TUNEL staining in the cuneate nucleus (P=0.05), and increased active caspase-3 in the hypoglossal, gracile and dentate gyrus (P&lt;0.05 for each). Nicotine-exposed females showed no change in TUNEL staining in any of the nuclei studied, but increased active caspase-3 in the hypoglossal, DMNV and NSTT (P&lt;0.05 for each). These results show for the first time that postnatal nicotine exposure can lead to an increase in apoptotic markers in the brain. In piglets, these effects showed regional and gender-specific differences, suggesting that passive, postnatal nicotine exposure may be responsible for some neuropathological changes observed in infants dying from SIDS.
Protein oxidation has been shown to result in loss of protein function. There is increasing evidence that protein oxidation plays a role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amyloid beta-peptide (1-42) [Abeta(1-42)] has been implicated as a mediator of oxidative stress in AD. Additionally, Abeta(1-42) has been shown to induce cholinergic dysfunction when injected into rat brain, a finding consistent with cholinergic deficits documented in AD. In this study, we used proteomic techniques to examine the regional in vivo protein oxidation induced by Abeta(1-42) injected into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) of rat brain compared with saline-injected control at 7 days post-injection. In the cortex, we identified glutamine synthetase and tubulin beta chain 15/alpha, while, in the NBM, we identified 14-3-3 zeta and chaperonin 60 (HSP60) as significantly oxidized. Extensive oxidation was detected in the hippocampus where we identified 14-3-3 zeta, beta-synuclein, pyruvate dehydrogenase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and phosphoglycerate mutase 1. The results of this study suggest that a single injection of Abeta(1-42) into NBM can have profound effects elsewhere in the brain. The results further suggest that Abeta(1-42)-induced oxidative stress in rat brain mirrors some of those proteins oxidized in AD brain and leads to oxidized proteins, which when inserted into their respective biochemical pathways yields insight into brain dysfunction that can lead to neurodegeneration in AD.
Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that 17beta-estradiol (E2) promotes neurite outgrowth in hippocampal and cortical neurons. The neurotrophic effect of E2 seen in vitro has also been observed in vivo by other investigators who found that E2 enhances the density of dendritic spines involved in neuronal synaptic connection. To investigate the rapid upstream mechanisms initiating the E2 neurotrophic effect, we tested the hypothesis that E2 would directly activate Ca2+ influx in primary hippocampal neurons, which would result in activation of the transcription factor, cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB), and regulate E2 enhancement of neurite outgrowth. Using fura-2 ratiometric and fluo-3 Ca2+ imaging, we demonstrated that E2 induced a significant rise in intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) through E2-induced Ca2+ influx. Interestingly, the rise in [Ca2+]i occurred not only in the cytoplasm, but also in the nucleus and dendrites of hippocampal neurons. Since CREB is activated by Ca2+-dependent kinases and is required for certain aspects of synaptic plasticity, we investigated whether E2 would lead to activation of CREB. Western immunoblotting and immunocytochemical analyses revealed that E2 induced rapid CREB activation consistent with rapid intracellular Ca2+ signaling, which was dependent on the influx of extracellular Ca2+. E2-induced increase in dendritic spine marker protein spinophilin was abolished following treatment with a small interfering RNA against CREB, indicating that E2-induced neurotrophic effect requires the upstream CREB activation. Results of these analyses indicate that E2-induced neurotrophic responses are mediated by a Ca2+ signaling cascade that is dependent upon extracellular Ca2+ and CREB activation. These data provide insights into the initiating mechanisms required to activate the estrogen neurotrophic response and provide a mechanistic framework for determining the neurotrophic efficacy of existing and emerging estrogen therapies for the brain.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) plays a key role in the neural plasticity that underlies learning and memory in vivo. The plasticity exhibited by NMDARs may also contribute to disease pathogenesis, as a number of disorders are caused or exacerbated by exaggerated NMDAR activity. The NMDAR is composed of two obligatory types of subunits, NR1 and NR2. These transmembrane proteins include large intracellular C-termini that have yet to be fully characterized. We have developed a three-color fluorescence system in order to visualize NMDAR expression in living cells. Using excitotoxicity as a proxy for exaggerated NMDAR activity, we analyzed the effect of over-expressing NR1-4 and NR2A C-terminal domains on exaggerated NMDAR function. We demonstrate that a determinant within the C-terminal domain of NR1-4 (C02') is important for NMDAR excitotoxicity, whereas no novel determinants were identified in the NR2A C-terminus. Through the use of heterologous cells, and by examining the interaction between the prototypical NMDAR-binding partner postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95), we show that this effect is unlikely to be mediated through a classical interaction with PSD-95.
The rat hippocampus plays a crucial role in the consolidation of a variety of memories, including that for a one trial inhibitory avoidance learning task in which stepping down from a platform is associated with a footshock. Here we show that this is the case regardless of the intensity of the footshock used and hence, of the strength of the learned response. However, additional learning produced by a second training session in this task does not involve the hippocampus but, instead, the striatum. Memory consolidation of the second trial requires glutamate alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate, N-methyl-D-aspartate and metabotropic receptors, activation of signaling pathways, gene expression and protein synthesis in the striatum, as are required in the hippocampus during memory consolidation of the first trial.
The medial septum and diagonal band of Broca (MSDB) provide a major input to the hippocampus and are important for spatial learning and memory. Although electrolytic MSDB lesions have prominent memory impairing effects, selective lesions of either cholinergic or GABAergic MSDB neurons do not or only mildly impair spatial memory. MSDB neurons are targets of orexin-containing neurons from the hypothalamus. At present, the functional significance of orexin afferents to MSDB is unclear, and the present study investigated a possible involvement of orexin innervation of the MSDB in spatial memory. Orexin-saporin, a toxin that damages neurons containing the hypocretin-2 receptor, was administered into the MSDB of rats. Rats were subsequently tested on a water maze to assess spatial reference memory and a plus maze to assess spatial working memory. At 100 ng/microl, orexin-saporin destroyed primarily GABAergic septohippocampal neurons, sparing the majority of cholinergic neurons. At 200 ng/microl, orexin-saporin almost totally eliminated GABAergic septohippocampal neurons and destroyed many cholinergic neurons. Spatial reference memory was impaired at both concentrations of orexin-saporin with a dramatic impairment observed for 24-h retention. Short-term reference memory was also impaired at both concentrations. Rats treated with 200 ng/microl, but not 100 ng/microl, of orexin-saporin were also impaired on a spontaneous alternation task, showing a deficit in spatial working memory. Our results, together with previous studies, suggest that orexin innervation of the MSDB may modulate spatial memory by acting on both GABAergic and cholinergic septohippocampal neurons.
Estrogen is likely involved in the gender specific differences in coping with stress. Activation of catecholamine (CA) biosynthetic enzyme gene expression in central and peripheral CA systems plays a key role in response to stress and in regulation of the cardiovascular system. Here we examined whether estradiol can modulate response of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA), gene expression of enzymes related to CA biosynthesis in several noradrenergic locations, tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) concentration and blood pressure (BP) in response to immobilization stress (IMO) of ovariectomized female rats. Rats were injected with 25 mug/kg estradiol benzoate (EB) or sesame oil once daily for 16 days and subsequently exposed to two hours of IMO. The IMO triggered elevation in plasma ACTH was lessened in EB-pretreated animals. However, estradiol did not alter the IMO-elicited rise of tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA levels in adrenal medulla (AM) and in the nucleus of solitary track (NTS) compared with controls. The response of GTP cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH) mRNA in AM to IMO was also similar in both groups. Several responses to IMO in EB-treated rats were reversed. Instead of IMO-elicited elevation in dopamine beta-hydroxylase mRNA levels in the locus coeruleus, GTPCH mRNA and BH4 levels in the NTS, they were reduced by IMO. In a parallel experiment, BP was monitored during restraint stress. The elevation of BP in response to single or repeated restraint stress was sustained during 2 h in controls and reduced after 70 min stress in EB treated rats. One month after withdrawal of EB treatment, the BP response to restraint was similar to that of rats which never received EB. The results demonstrate that estrogen can modulate responses to stress affecting HPA axis, CA biosynthesis, in central and peripheral noradrenergic systems, and BP.
Second only to light, daily restricted feeding schedules can entrain circadian rhythms in mammals [Neurosci Biobehav Rev 4 (1980) 119; J Biol Rhythms 17 (2002) 284]. Contrary to light, however, such feeding schedules have been found not to affect the master circadian clock in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) [Genes Dev 14 (2000) 2950; Eur J Neurosci 13 (2001) 1190]. Here, we show that in rats that are arrhythmic as a consequence of prolonged housing in constant light, a daily restricted feeding schedule not only restores behavioral rhythmicity, as previously shown [Physiol Behav 53 (1993) 509], but in addition, induces a rhythm of the clock protein, Period2 in the SCN. These findings challenge the idea that the SCN is invulnerable to feeding schedules and call for a reevaluation of the role of the SCN clock in the circadian effects of such schedules.

Ischemia-induced neuronal damage has been linked to elevated production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) both in animal models and in humans. NADPH oxidase enzymes (NOX-es) are a major enzymatic source of ROS, but their role in brain ischemia has not yet been investigated. The present study was carried out to examine the expression of NOX4, one of the new NADPH oxidase isoforms in a mouse model of focal permanent brain ischemia. We demonstrate that NOX4 is expressed in neurons using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. Ischemia, induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion resulted in a dramatic increase in cortical NOX4 expression. Elevated NOX4 mRNA levels were detectable as early as 24 h after the onset of ischemia and persisted throughout the 30 days of follow-up period, reaching a maximum between days 7 and 15. The early onset suggests neuronal reaction, while the peak period corresponds to the time of neoangiogenesis occurring mainly in the peri-infarct region. The occurrence of NOX4 in the new capillaries was confirmed by immunohistochemical staining. In summary, our paper reports the presence of the ROS producing NADPH oxidase NOX4 in neurons and demonstrates an upregulation of its expression under ischemic conditions. Moreover, a role for NOX4 in ischemia/hypoxia-induced angiogenesis is suggested by its prominent expression in newly formed capillaries.
Many behavioral functions-including sensorimotor, attentional, memory, and emotional processes-have been associated with hippocampal processes and with dopamine transmission in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). This suggests a functional interaction between hippocampus and prefrontal dopamine. The anatomical substrate for such an interaction is the intimate interconnection between the ventral hippocampus and the dopamine innervation of the mPFC. The present study yielded direct neurochemical evidence for an interaction between ventral hippocampus and prefrontal dopamine transmission in rats by demonstrating that subconvulsive stimulation of the ventral hippocampus with N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA; 0.5 mug/side) activates dopamine transmission in the mPFC. Postmortem measurements revealed that bilateral NMDA stimulation of the ventral hippocampus, resulting in locomotor hyperactivity, increased the homovanillic acid/dopamine ratio, an index of dopamine transmission, in the mPFC; indices of dopamine transmission in any of five additionally examined forebrain regions (amygdala, nucleus accumbens shell/core, lateral prefrontal cortex, caudate putamen) were unaltered. In vivo microdialysis measurements in freely moving rats corroborated the suggested activation of prefrontal dopamine transmission by demonstrating that unilateral NMDA stimulation of the ventral hippocampus increased extracellular dopamine in the ipsilateral mPFC. The suggested influence of the ventral hippocampus on prefrontal dopamine may be an important mechanism for hippocampo-prefrontal interactions in normal behavioral processes. Moreover, it indicates that aberrant hippocampal activity, as found in neuropsychiatric diseases, such as schizophrenia and mood disorders, may contribute to disruption of certain cognitive and emotional functions which are extremely sensitive to imbalanced prefrontal dopamine transmission.
Frequency response areas (FRAs) were measured for 237 single units in the inferior colliculus (IC) of urethane-anesthetized pigmented rats using monaural pure-tone stimulation. Based on qualitative criteria [J Neurosci 21 (2001) 7303], FRAs were classified as V-shaped in 69% of neurons, non-V-shaped in 29%, and unclassifiable in the remaining 2%. Non-V-shaped FRAs were heterogeneous, comprising a number of subtypes including narrow, closed, low- and high-tilt, multipeaked, U-shaped, mosaic and inhibitory. To complement this subjective classification, we applied quantitative measures used by others (e.g. [J Neurophysiol 84 (2000) 1012]), including the inverse slope of the upper and lower FRA borders, Q-values, and other measures of bandwidth. The results suggest that FRAs in the rat IC are best described as forming a continuous distribution among subtypes, rather than clustering into discrete categories. Moreover, there is a broad range of frequency tuning characteristics and FRA types across the entire frequency spectrum. Within this general pattern, however, there are some frequency-specific differences in FRA type distribution. The relative proportion of V-shaped FRAs was greatest at the high and low ends of the auditory range, with the highest proportion of non-V-shaped FRAs in the mid-range from 6 to 12 kHz. For most neurons with multipeaked FRAs, the peak frequencies were not harmonically related. Frequency tuning in the pigmented rat IC is generally similar to that in other species. Comparison of Q values across auditory nuclei shows little evidence that FRAs are sharpened at levels above the auditory nerve. Rather, there is a broad range of frequency tuning properties at each level.
This study examined whether or not the properties of cutaneous nociceptive fibers are altered in the neuropathic state by comparing lumbars 5 and 6 spinal nerve ligation (SNL) rats with sham-operated controls. The rats with the unilateral SNL developed mechanical allodynia in the ipsilateral hind limb, whereas the sham group did not. Two to 5 weeks after the neuropathic or sham surgery, rats were subjected to single fiber-recording experiments to examine the properties of afferent fibers in the sural and plantar nerves. A total of 224 afferents in the C- and Adelta-ranges were characterized in the neuropathic and sham groups. Spontaneous activity was observed in 16 of 155 fibers in the neuropathic group and one of 69 fibers in the sham group. The response threshold of both the C- and Adelta-fibers to mechanical stimuli was lower in the neuropathic group than the sham group. The afferent fibers responsive to heat stimuli were all C-fibers, and none were Adelta-fibers. The response threshold of the C-fibers to the heat stimuli was lower in the neuropathic group than the sham group. The magnitude of the responses of both C- and Adelta-fibers to the suprathreshold intensity of the mechanical stimulus was greater in the neuropathic group than the sham group. However, the magnitude of the responses of C-fibers to the suprathreshold intensity of the heat stimulus in the neuropathic group was not different from that in the sham group. These results suggest that after a partial peripheral nerve injury, the nociceptors on the skin supplied by an uninjured nerve become sensitized to both mechanical and heat stimuli. This nociceptor sensitization can contribute to neuropathic pain.
We have previously found that tissue type and urokinase type plasminogen activators (tPA and uPA) are induced in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons after peripheral axotomy and that tPA plays crucial roles in generating neuropathic pain. Here we examined whether the plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 and -2 (PAI-1 and PAI-2) mRNA, endogenous inhibitors of tPA and uPA, are induced in the DRG following sciatic nerve transection. L4 and L5 DRG sections were examined using in situ hybridization histochemistry. The results showed that both PAI-1 and PAI-2 mRNA were up-regulated in DRG neurons within 1 day, and peaked at 1-3 days, after injury. Reduction of these mRNA was observed from 7 days after injury. The precise expression patterns of PAI-1 and PAI-2 mRNA at 3 days after axotomy revealed that PAI-1 mRNA was observed in predominantly small neurons, while much of the PAI-2 mRNA was expressed in large neurons. Double-labeling analysis of these mRNAs with activated transcription factor 3, known as an injury marker, revealed that most PAI-1 and PAI-2 mRNAs was induced in injured neurons. Co-expression of PAI-1, 2 with tPA and uPA in DRG neurons suggests that these inhibitors may act in an autocrine manner to modulate extracellular proteolytic activity after nerve injury.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is reported to play a neuroprotective role through a VEGF receptor, fetal liver kinase-1 (Flk-1) in vitro. We investigated whether reduction of Flk-1 could induce motor neuron loss in rat spinal cord by inhibiting the expression of Flk-1 in rat spinal cord using antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) against the Flk-1 receptor. Rat spinal cord was repetitively exposed to 12% hypoxia, and the change of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K)/Akt pathway and the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)/extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway was examined. Intrathecal infusion of Flk-1 antisense ODNs for 7 days suppressed almost completely Flk-1 expression in the lumbar segment of the spinal cord and was followed by a hypoxic challenge with 12% oxygen for 1 h that was repeated for 7 more days. In the lumbar segment, we observed that reduced Flk-1 expression and hypoxic challenge for 7 days resulted in approximately 50% loss of motor neurons, in which the activation of Akt and ERK, that is, increased levels of phosphorylated-Akt and of phosphorylated-ERK by hypoxia, was markedly inhibited. In contrast, the reduction of Flk-1 expression alone did not induce motor neuron loss. These results suggest that VEGF exerts its protective effect on motor neurons against hypoxia-induced toxicity by the Flk-1 receptor through the PI3-K/Akt and the MEK/ERK signaling pathways.
Relatively little is known concerning the interaction of psychostimulants with hypothalamic neuropeptide systems or metabolic hormones implicated in regulation of energy balance. The present studies tested whether methamphetamine alters the expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related peptide (AgRP), two important orexigenic neuropeptides, or proopiomelanocortin (POMC), the precursor for the anorexigenic peptide alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, or the secretion of leptin, insulin and ghrelin, concomitant with inhibition of food intake. Female rats were either fed ad libitum (AL) or placed on a scheduled feeding (SF) regimen, with access to food limited to 4 h/day. Administration of (+/-)-methamphetamine (7.5 mg/kg, i.p.) 2 h prior to food presentation significantly inhibited food intake in SF animals, but did not affect intake in AL animals. In a separate study, AL and SF animals were killed just prior to expected food presentation, and expression of NPY, AgRP and POMC mRNAs in hypothalamus was determined using in situ hybridisation; concentrations of leptin, insulin and ghrelin in serum were determined with radioimmunoassays. In saline-treated, SF controls, NPY and AgRP mRNA expression in arcuate nucleus and serum ghrelin were significantly elevated, and serum leptin and insulin were significantly reduced. Methamphetamine reversed the up-regulation of NPY mRNA expression observed in the SF condition, without affecting AgRP mRNA or the serum concentrations of metabolic hormones. However, in AL animals, NPY mRNA expression in arcuate and dorsomedial nuclei was significantly increased by methamphetamine, which also reduced serum leptin and insulin and increased serum ghrelin concentrations. These findings suggest that the inhibition of NPY expression in SF animals may be a mechanism underlying the anorexigenic effect of methamphetamine seen in this condition. The increase in NPY expression produced by methamphetamine in AL animals may be mediated by the ability of this drug to decrease secretion of leptin and insulin and increase secretion of ghrelin.
Female cynomolgus monkeys exhibit different degrees of reproductive dysfunction with moderate metabolic and psychosocial stress. In this study, the expression of four genes pivotal to serotonin neural function was assessed in monkeys previously categorized as highly stress resistant (n=3; normal menstrual cyclicity through two stress cycles), medium stress resistant (n=5; ovulatory in the first stress cycle but anovulatory in the second stress cycle), or low stress resistant (i.e. stress-sensitive; n=4; anovulatory as soon as stress is initiated). In situ hybridization and quantitative image analysis was used to measure mRNAs coding for SERT (serotonin transporter), 5HT1A autoreceptor, MAO-A and MAO-B (monoamine oxidases) at six levels of the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). Optical density (OD) and positive pixel area were measured with NIH Image software. In addition, serotonin neurons were immunostained and counted at three levels of the DRN. Finally, each animal was genotyped for the serotonin transporter long polymorphic region (5HTTLPR). Stress sensitive animals had lower expression of SERT mRNA in the caudal region of the DRN (P&lt;0.04). SERT mRNA OD in the caudal DRN was positively correlated with serum progesterone during a pre-stress control cycle (P&lt;0.0007). 5HT1A mRNA OD signal tended to decline in the stress-sensitive group, but statistical difference between averages was lacking in analysis of variance. However, 5HT1A mRNA signal was positively correlated with control cycle progesterone (P&lt;0.009). There was significantly less MAO-A mRNA signal in the stress-sensitive group (P&lt;0.007) and MAO-A OD was positively correlated with progesterone from a pre-stress control cycle (P&lt;0.007). MAO-B mRNA exhibited a similar downward trend in the stress-sensitive group. MAO-B OD also correlated with control cycle progesterone (P&lt;0.003). There were significantly fewer serotonin neurons in the stress-sensitive group. All animals contained only the long form of the 5HTTLPR. Thus, all serotonin-related mRNAs examined in the dorsal raphe to date were lower (SERT, MAO-A) or exhibited a lower trend (5HT1A, MAO-B) in the stress sensitive animals, which probably reflects the lower number of serotonin neurons present.
Human prefrontal cortex is essential for high brain functions and its activity is modulated by multiple neurotransmitters, including histamine. However, the histamine receptors in this brain area have not been systematically studied so far. In situ hybridization and receptor binding autoradiography were employed to map and quantify the mRNA expression and receptor binding of three of the four histamine receptors (H(1), H(2), H(3)). mRNA expression and receptor binding of these three histamine receptors displayed characteristic laminar distribution patterns. Both H(1) and H(3) receptor mRNAs were mainly expressed in the deeper layers (H(1) in laminae V and VI; H(3) in lamina V), where most of the corticothalamic projections originate, whereas H(2) receptor mRNA was primarily expressed in the superficial layer II. Receptor ligand binding of these three histamine receptors displayed relatively even distribution patterns throughout the gray matter. However, higher densities of H(1) and H(3) receptor radioligand binding sites were seen in the middle layers III and IV that receive abundant thalamic inputs and where some of the apical dendrites of the deep-layer pyramidal neurons terminate, whereas higher density of H(2) receptor radioligand binding sites was seen in the superficial layers I-III. The results, together with data on histaminergic regulation of thalamic oscillations suggest that histamine regulates both cortico-cortical and thalamo-cortical circuits. As histamine receptors are also abundant in thalamus, histamine may be involved also in human diseases of the thalamocortical system.
We have developed models of Alzheimer's disease in Drosophila melanogaster by expressing the Abeta peptides that accumulate in human disease. Expression of wild-type and Arctic mutant (Glu22Gly) Abeta(1-42) peptides in Drosophila neural tissue results in intracellular Abeta accumulation followed by non-amyloid aggregates that resemble diffuse plaques. These histological changes are associated with progressive locomotor deficits and vacuolation of the brain and premature death of the flies. The severity of the neurodegeneration is proportional to the propensity of the expressed Abeta peptide to form oligomers. The fly phenotype is rescued by treatment with Congo Red that reduces Abeta aggregation in vitro. Our model demonstrates that intracellular accumulation and non-amyloid aggregates of Abeta are sufficient to cause the neurodegeneration of Alzheimer's disease. Moreover it provides a platform to dissect the pathways of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease and to develop novel therapeutic interventions.
Ischemia and ischemia-induced secondary events, such as acidosis and excessive activation of receptors by amino acids, trigger neuron death. The isolation and dissociation of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) involves time during which the neurons are ischemic due to being densely packed within the intact DRG and surrounded by a connective tissue coat. Thus, the longer the time between killing the host animal and when the DRG are dissociated, the longer the neurons are ischemic and exposed to ischemia-induced secondary causes of neuron death. It is well established that hypothermia and alkalinization each separately protect neurons from ischemia and ischemia-induced secondary causes of neuron death, but there are no data on the neuroprotection provided by simultaneous hypothermia and alkalinization. The present experiments were designed to determine the combination of hypothermic and alkaline conditions that yield the largest number of viable neurons dissociated from intact DRG maintained ischemic for up to 4 h. Hypothermia (20 degrees C&gt;15 degrees C&gt;37 degrees C) and alkalinization (pH 9.3&gt;pH 8.3&gt;pH 7.4) increased the yield of viable neurons compared with the yield from DRG maintained under physiological conditions. Hypothermia and alkalinization combined (20 degrees C/pH 9.3) provided the greatest neuroprotection with a yield of viable neurons after 1 h of ischemia 2.5-fold larger than that from DRG maintained under physiological conditions (37 degrees C/pH 7.6). Over 4 h of ischemia, the yield of viable neurons from DRG maintained under both hypothermic/alkaline and physiological conditions decreased in a linear manner, but those at 20 degrees C/pH 9.3 had a 4.5-fold greater yield of viable neurons than those at 37 degrees C/pH 7.6. Thus, combined hypothermia and alkalinization provide significantly greater protection against ischemia and ischemia-induced secondary causes of neuron death than either alone.
GABA(B) receptors at the cone terminals in bullfrog retina were characterized by immunocytochemical and whole-cell patch clamp techniques in retinal slice preparations. Somata, axons and synaptic terminals (pedicles) of cones were both GABA(B) receptor (GABA(B)R) 1 and GABA(B)R2 immunoreactive. Physiologically, barium/calcium currents of cones to voltage steps were significantly reduced in size when GABA was puffed to cone terminals in the presence of picrotoxin that is supposed to block both GABA(A) and GABA(C) receptors. Similar reduction in barium currents was obtained with puff application of baclofen to cone terminals. These results suggest the presence of functional GABA(B) receptors at the bullfrog cone terminals. Suppression of barium currents of cones by baclofen was dose-dependent. Moreover, barium currents of cones were potentiated by background illumination, as compared with those recorded in the dark. 6,7-Dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, an antagonist of non-NMDA receptors that hyperpolarizes horizontal cells and reduces GABA release from these cells, and saclofen, a GABA(B) receptor antagonist, both potentiated barium currents of cones in the dark, thereby mimicking the effects of background illumination. It is suggested that changes in calcium influx into the cone synaptic terminals due to activation of GABA(B) receptors may provide a negative feedback mechanism for regulating signal transmission between cones and second-order neurons in the retina by modifying the amount of glutamate released from the cones.
Tenascin-C (TNC), an extracellular matrix glycoprotein, is involved in tissue morphogenesis like embryogenesis, wound healing or tumorigenesis. Astrocytes are known to play major roles in wound healing in the CNS. To elucidate the roles of TNC in wound closure by astrocytes, we have examined the morphological changes of cultured astrocytes in a scratch wound assay and measured the content of soluble TNC released into the medium. We have also localized the expression of TNC mRNA, TNC, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), vimentin and integrin beta1. After wounding, glial cells rapidly released the largest TNC isoform and proliferated in the border zones. Subsequently, they became polarized with unidirectional processes and finally migrated toward the denuded area. The proliferating border zone cells and pre-migratory cells intensely expressed TNC mRNA, TNC-, vimentin-, GFAP- and integrin beta1-like immunoreactivity, while the migratory cells showed generally reduced expression except the front. Exogenous TNC enhanced cell proliferation and migration, while functional blocking with anti-TNC or anti-integrin beta1 antibody reduced both of them. These results suggest that mechanical injury induces boundary astrocytes to produce and release TNC that promotes cell proliferation and migration via integrin beta1 in an autocrine/paracrine fashion.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by increases in amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides, neurofibrillary tangles, oxidative stress and cholinergic deficits. However, the selectivity of these deficits and their relation with the Abeta pathology or oxidative stress remain unclear. We therefore investigated amyloidosis-related changes in acetylcholine (ACh) and serotonin (5-HT) innervations of hippocampus and parietal cortex by quantitative choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and 5-HT immunocytochemistry, in 6, 12/14 and 18 month-old transgenic mice carrying familial AD-linked mutations (hAPP(Sw,Ind)). Further, using manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity as markers, we evaluated the relationship between oxidative stress and the ACh deficit in 18 month-old mice. Thioflavin-positive Abeta plaques were seen in both regions at all ages; they were more numerous in hippocampus and increased in number (&gt;15-fold) and size as a function of age. A majority of plaques exhibited or were surrounded by increased MnSOD immunoreactivity, and dystrophic ACh or 5-HT axons were seen in their immediate vicinity. Counts of immunoreactive axon varicosities revealed significant decreases in ACh innervation, with a sparing of the 5-HT, even in aged mice. First apparent in hippocampus, the loss of ACh terminals was in the order of 20% at 12/14 months, and not significantly greater (26%) at 18 months. In parietal cortex, the ACh denervation was significant at 18 months only, averaging 24% across the different layers. Despite increased perivascular MnSOD immunoreactivity, there was no evidence of dystrophic ACh varicosities or their accentuated loss in the perivascular area. Moreover, there was virtually no sign of tyrosine nitration in ChAT nerve terminals or neuronal cell bodies. These data suggest that aggregated Abeta exerts an early, non-selective and focal neurotoxic effect on both ACh and 5-HT axons, but that a selective, plaque- and oxidative stress-independent diffuse cholinotoxicity, most likely caused by soluble Abeta assemblies, is responsible for the hippocampal and cortical ACh denervation.
The involvement of brain creatine in the adaptation to acute stress responses was investigated in chicks. In experiment 1, brain creatine content of chicks exposed to social separation stress was significantly increased compared with control chicks. The effects of i.c.v. injection of creatine (2 mug) on vocalizations, spontaneous activity and plasma corticosterone concentration in chicks under social separation stress were investigated in experiment 2. All measurements were attenuated by the i.c.v. injection of creatine compared with the controls under separation stress. Creatine also significantly decreased the active posture, but increased the motionless eye-opened posture, compared with the control. To clarify the relationship between creatine function and GABA receptors, the i.c.v. co-injection of creatine with picrotoxin, a GABA-A receptor antagonist, or CGP54626, a GABA-B receptor antagonist, was investigated in experiments 3 and 4. The effects of creatine on vocalizations and spontaneous activity were attenuated by co-injection of picrotoxin. In this case, active postures decreased by creatine were recovered by co-injection with picrotoxin. However, these effects were not obtained with CGP54626. The results suggest that central creatine functions within the CNS to attenuate the acute stress response by acting through GABA-A receptors in chicks.
We have previously demonstrated that acetylcholine, acting at M2 muscarinic receptors, mediates the estradiol-induced increase in hippocampal N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor binding and the associated enhancement in working memory. The goal of present experiment was to investigate the role of hippocampal M2 receptors in the behavioral aspects of these effects. Ovariectomized rats were trained to locate a hidden escape platform on a matching-to-place version of the water maze in which the platform was moved to a new location for each session of four daily trials. Following 18 days of training, rats were randomly assigned to receive one of the following treatments: 1) injections of oil vehicle delivered 72 and 48 h before testing and continuous delivery of vehicle into the dorsal hippocampus via bilateral cannulae implants connected to osmotic minipumps; 2) injections of estradiol benzoate (EB) delivered 72 and 48 h before testing and continuous delivery of vehicle into the hippocampus; 3) injections of EB delivered 72 and 48 h before testing and continuous delivery of the M2 muscarinic receptor antagonist, AFDX 116, into the hippocampus; and 4) injections of EB delivered 72 and 48 h before testing and continuous delivery of AFDX 116 into a control site in the cortex. Chronic administration of AFDX 116 into the hippocampus, but not the cortex, significantly attenuated an estrogen-induced enhancement in performance on a working memory task in the water maze as indicated by increased latency and increased path length to locate an escape platform during a test trial when a 90 min delay was imposed between the first and second trials. These results indicate that acetylcholine acts at M2 muscarinic receptors located in the hippocampus to mediate the positive effects exerted by estrogen on working memory.
We used the hot plate test and the formalin test to evaluate the antinociception of choline after i.c.v. or i.v. administration. The analgesic mechanism of choline was also studied. The response latency of mice was significantly prolonged in the hot plate test after choline (90-120 mug/animals) i.c.v. administration in a dose-dependent manner. Pretreatment with methyllycaconitine citrate (MLA), alpha-bungarotoxin, or atropine blocked the antinociception of choline in the hot plate test. In contrast, mecamylamine and naloxone had no effect. No antinociceptive action of choline was found in the hot plate test, but it did have an effect in the late phase of the formalin test after i.v. administration. The effect of choline on anti-inflammatory pain was blocked by MLA, but not by mecamylamine, naloxone and atropine, which is indicative of the involvement of alpha7 receptors in peripheral sites. When choline (2 mg/kg) was coadministered with aspirin (9.4 mg/kg), the licking/biting times in the late phase significantly decreased, although no effects were shown when these doses of drugs were used alone. Similarly, coadministration of choline (2 mg/kg) with morphine (0.165 mg/kg) significantly increased the antinociception of morphine in the late phase, but had no effect in the early phase. These results demonstrate that activation of alpha7 nicotinic receptors by choline elicits antinociceptive effects both in an acute thermal pain model and in an inflammatory pain model. Choline holds promise for development as a non-addictive analgesic drug and in reducing the regular dose of aspirin or morphine in inflammatory pain.
The primate amygdala is implicated in the control of behavioral responses to foods and in stimulus-reinforcement learning, but only its taste representation of oral stimuli has been investigated previously. Of 1416 macaque amygdala neurons recorded, 44 (3.1%) responded to oral stimuli. Of the 44 orally responsive neurons, 17 (39%) represent the viscosity of oral stimuli, tested using carboxymethyl-cellulose in the range 1-10,000 cP. Two neurons (5%) responded to fat in the mouth by encoding its texture (shown by the responses of these neurons to a range of fats, and also to non-fat oils such as silicone oil ((Si(CH(3))(2)O)(n)) and mineral oil (pure hydrocarbon), but no or small responses to the cellulose viscosity series or to the fatty acids linoleic acid and lauric acid). Of the 44 neurons, three (7%) responded to gritty texture (produced by microspheres suspended in cellulose). Eighteen neurons (41%) responded to the temperature of liquid in the mouth. Some amygdala neurons responded to capsaicin, and some to fatty acids (but not to fats in the mouth). Some amygdala neurons respond to taste, texture and temperature unimodally, but others combine these inputs. These results provide fundamental evidence about the information channels used to represent the texture and flavor of food in a part of the brain important in appetitive responses to food and in learning associations to reinforcing oral stimuli, and are relevant to understanding the physiological and pathophysiological processes related to food intake, food selection, and the effects of variety of food texture in combination with taste and other inputs on food intake.
The present experiment was designed to study changes in behavior following immunolesioning of the basal forebrain cholinergic system. Rats were lesioned at 3 months of age by injection of the 192 IgG-saporin immunotoxin into the medial septum area and the nucleus basalis magnocellularis, and then tested at different times after surgery (from days 7-500) on a range of behavioral tests, administered in the following order: a nonmatching-to-position task in a T-maze, an object-recognition task, an object-location task, and an open-field activity test. The results revealed a two-way interaction between post-lesion behavioral testing time and memory demands. In the nonmatching-to-position task, memory deficits appeared quite rapidly after surgery, i.e. at a post-lesion time as short as 1 month. In the object-recognition test, memory impairments appeared only when rats were tested at late post-lesion times (starting at 15 months), whereas in the object-location task deficits were apparent at early post-lesion times (starting from 2 months). Taking the post-operative time into account, one can hypothesize that at the shortest post-lesion times, behavioral deficits are due to pure cholinergic depletion, while as the post-lesion time increases, one can speculate the occurrence of a non-cholinergic system decompensation process and/or a gradual degeneration process affecting other neuronal systems that may contribute to mnemonic impairments. Interestingly, when middle-aged rats were housed in an enriched environment, 192 IgG-saporin-lesioned rats performed better than standard-lesioned rats on both the nonmatching-to-position and the object-recognition tests. Environment enrichment had significant beneficial effects in 192 IgG-saporin-lesioned rats, suggesting that lesioned rats at late post-lesion times (over 1 year) still have appreciable cognitive plasticity.
A conflict task was developed that simultaneously examines place aversion learning and fear-motivated context discrimination. The task superimposed Pavlovian discriminative fear conditioning on an appetitively motivated instrumental response (alternation). Rats were trained to alternate along a high-walled, diamond-shaped runway between two chambers for food. On half of the trials, a tone CS signaled the fact that a fixed section at the apex of the runway was electrified. Both the tone and the shock were turned on at the beginning of, and remained on for the duration of, each tone trial. A new trial was initiated at the time the animal entered the subsequent food chamber. Therefore, during a tone trial, in order to attain additional food reinforcement, the animal had to cross over the electrified region at the runway apex. Behavioral performance of rats with small lesions of the amygdala or dorsal hippocampus (DH) was compared with that of sham-operated controls. All groups displayed significant discriminative responding, hesitating more on tone trials while in areas of the runway adjacent to the shock region. Animals with lesions of the DH were similar to controls with respect to the tone-mediated discrimination, yet were delayed in the initial expression of a location-specific fear response. Conversely, amygdala lesions did not affect place learning; however, these animals were impaired in their suppression of the fear response following repeated unpaired trials.
We investigated how the spatio-temporal pattern of respiratory neuron network activity in the ventral medulla changes during the late fetal period of rat. Brainstem-spinal cord preparations isolated from rat fetuses on embryonic days 17-21 (E17-E21) were stained with a voltage-sensitive dye for optical image analysis of neuronal activity of the ventral medulla. The spatio-temporal pattern of respiratory neuron activity in the preparation from E20 to E21 was basically identical to that of neonatal rat; pre-inspiratory activity in a limited region of the rostral ventrolateral medulla, the para-facial region, preceded by several hundred milliseconds the onset of inspiratory activity in the more caudal ventrolateral medulla, the pre-Btzinger complex level. In contrast, in E17-E18 specimens, pre-inspiratory activity could not be detected in the rostral medulla at the level of the facial nucleus. Neuronal activity appeared to begin at the pre-Btzinger complex level shortly before onset of the inspiratory burst. Strong activity then developed in the facial nucleus and peaked in the post-inspiratory phase. The transition of these patterns of respiratory activity occurred at E19. We conclude that the changes in the spatio-temporal pattern of neuronal activity reflect developmental changes in the cellular elements underlying rhythm generation in the fetal respiratory neuron network. We suggest that the pre-inspiratory neuron network of the para-facial region in the rostral ventrolateral medulla functions as the rhythm generator after E19/20.
Corticotropin-releasing-factor (CRF) containing systems and monoaminergic afferents of the central amygdaloid nucleus (Ce) are crucial players in central nervous stress responses. For functional analyses of specific roles of these systems, numerous mouse models have been generated which lack or overexpress individual signal transduction components. Since data concerning system morphologies in murine brain are rarely available, mouse studies are usually designed and interpreted based on previous findings in rats, although interspecies differences are frequent. In the present study, in situ hybridization for CRF mRNA and correlative immunocytochemistry for CRF and monoaminergic afferents revealed numerous CRF mRNA-reactive neurons in the lateral Ce subnucleus (CeL) codistributed with dense dopaminergic fiber plexus in mice as has been demonstrated in rats. However, while in rats the lateral capsular Ce (CeLc) displays only scarce CRF immunoreactive (CRF-ir) innervation, particularly dense CRF-ir fiber plexus were observed in the CeLc in mice, with differences in labeling densities between different strains. CRF-ir terminal fibers overlap with the moderate serotonergic innervation of this subnucleus in mice. Additionally, CRF mRNA-reactive neurons were found immediately dorsal to the amygdala in the region of the interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure/amygdalostriatal transition area in both species. In mice, this region displayed dense CRF-ir fiber plexus, with variations between the strains. The results indicate that in mice and rats dopaminergic afferents represent the primary monoaminergic input to the CRF neurons in the CeL. In mice only, CRF-ir afferents provide dense innervation of CeLc neurons. Since the CeLc lacks dopaminergic input in both species but possesses moderate serotonergic afferents, CRF/serotonin interactions may occur selectively in mouse CeLc. The observed interspecies and interstrain differences in CRF input and CRF/monoaminergic interactions may influence the interpretation of findings concerning Ce functions in stress and fear in mouse models.
Rapid effects of estrogen have now been identified throughout the brain but the extent to which these actions may be different in males and females is unknown. Previous work has shown that estrogen rapidly phosphorylates Ser133 of cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) through a non-genomic mechanism. Using this indicator, we have examined here whether non-genomic estrogen actions occur in a sexually dimorphic manner within the adult brain. Male and female mice were gonadectomized and 3 weeks later treated with 17-beta-estradiol or vehicle for 1 h prior to perfusion fixation and subsequent CREB and phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) immunostaining of brain sections. The numbers of cells expressing CREB immunoreactivity were not altered by estrogen treatment or different in males and females in any of the brain regions examined. However, estrogen treatment significantly (P&lt;0.05) increased pCREB-immunoreactive cell numbers in the medial preoptic area, ventrolateral division of the ventromedial nucleus, medial septum and CA1 region of the hippocampus of female mice. In contrast, estrogen increased pCREB levels in the medial septum and CA1 but not in the preoptic area or ventromedial nucleus of male mice. To evaluate the extent to which non-genomic estrogen actions may be sexually differentiated within a single neuronal phenotype, dual labeling immunocytochemistry was undertaken to evaluate the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neuronal phenotype. Estrogen significantly (P&lt;0.05) increased the numbers of GnRH neurons expressing pCREB in female but not male mice. Together, these results demonstrate the existence of a marked sex difference in estrogen's non-genomic effects upon brain function in vivo.
Currently much attention is focused on glutathione S transferase (GST)-induced suppression of apoptosis. The objective of our studies was therefore to see if GST isoenzymes rescue photoreceptors in retinal explants from rd1/rd1 mice, in which photoreceptors degenerate rapidly. Eyes from C3H rd1/rd1 and +/+ mice were collected at various time points between postnatal day (PN) 2 and PN28. Localization and content of alpha-GST and mu-GST was investigated by immunofluorescence and semi-quantitative Western blot analysis, respectively. In addition, PN2 and PN7 retinal explants were cultured till PN28, during which they were treated with 10 ng/ml alpha-GST or mu-GST. The spatiotemporal expression of both GST isoforms was closely similar: early presence in ganglion cell layer after which staining became restricted to Muller cells (particularly in the endfeet) and horizontal cell fibers in both rd1/rd1 and +/+. Doublets of alpha-GST and mu-GST were detected by Western blot analysis. Densitometry of these bands indicated steady reduction of alpha-GST content in rd1/rd1 retina starting from the second postnatal week. When alpha-GST and mu-GST were added exogenously to rd1/rd1 explants, photoreceptor rescue was produced that was more prominent in PN2 than in PN7 explants and more effective by alpha-GST than mu-GST. We propose that alpha-GST neuroprotection is mediated by reduction of tissue oxidative stress.
GABA-A and GABA-B receptors mediate differential effects in the CNS. To better understand the role of these receptors in regulating pallidal functions, we compared their subcellular and subsynaptic localization in the external and internal segments of the globus pallidus (GPe and GPi) in monkeys, using pre- and post-embedding immunocytochemistry with antibodies against GABA-A (alpha1, beta2/3 subunits) and GABA-BR1 receptor subtype. Our results demonstrate that GABA-A and GABA-B receptors display a differential pattern of subcellular and subsynaptic localization in both segments of the globus pallidus. The majority of GABA-BR1 immunolabeling is intracellular, whereas immunoreactivity for GABA-A receptor subunits is mostly bound to the plasma membrane. A significant proportion of both GABA-BR1 and GABA-A receptor immunolabeling is extrasynaptic, but GABA-A receptor subunits also aggregate in the main body of putative GABAergic symmetric synapses established by striatal- and pallidal-like terminals. GABA-BR1 immunoreactivity is expressed presynaptically in putative glutamatergic terminals, while GABA-A alpha1 and beta2/3 receptor subunits are exclusively post-synaptic and often coexist at individual symmetric synapses in both GPe and GPi. In conclusion, our findings corroborate the concept that ionotropic and metabotropic GABA receptors are located to subserve different effects in pallidal neurons. Although the aggregation of GABA-A receptors at symmetric synapses is consistent with their role in fast inhibitory synaptic transmission, the extrasynaptic distribution of both GABA-A and GABA-B receptors provides a substrate for complex modulatory functions that rely predominantly on the spillover of GABA.
Numerous studies have shown that abnormal motor behavior improves when neural progenitor cells (NPCs) are transplanted into animal models of neurodegeneration. The mechanisms responsible for this improvement are not fully understood. Indirect anatomical evidence suggests that attention of abnormal motor behavior is attributed, at least in part, to the secretion of trophic factors from the transplanted NPCs. However, there is little direct evidence supporting this hypothesis. Here we show that NPCs isolated from the subventricular zone (SVZ) of neonatal mice are highly teratogenic when transplanted into the neural tube of developing chick embryos and are neuroprotective for fetal dopaminergic neurons in culture because they release sonic hedgehog (Shh). In addition, the neuroprotective properties of NPCs can be exploited to promote better long-term survival of transplanted fetal neurons in an animal model of Parkinson's disease. Thus, cultured NPCs isolated from the SVZ can secrete at least one potent mitogen (Shh) that dramatically affects the fate of neighboring cells. This trait may account for some of the improvement in motor behavior often reported in animal models of neurodegeneration after transplantation of cultured NPCs that were isolated from the SVZ.
The molecular basis of neuronal circuit reorganization during epileptogenesis is poorly understood. Such data are, however, critical for the search of new targets for the prevention of epileptogenesis. Here, we extended our previous studies on caspases in epileptogenesis by investigating the expression and activity of caspase 6 at different phases of the epileptic process in rats. Epileptogenesis was triggered by kainate-induced status epilepticus (SE) under video-electroencephalography-monitoring. Caspase 6 activity was measured fluorometrically in the hippocampus 8 h, 24 h, 48 h, 1 week, and 4 weeks after SE. Caspase 6 expression was examined using Western blot and immunohistochemistry. Our data demonstrated that the SE-induced increase in the expression of cleaved caspase 6 and its intraneuronal localization were dependent on the time delay from SE induction. Double-labeling with a neuronal marker, NeuN, indicated that within the first 48 h, caspase 6 immunoreactivity was present both in the hippocampal pyramidal cells and hilar neurons, some of which were also terminal transferase dUTP-end labeling-positive. This was coincident with a transient 18-fold increase in caspase 6 enzymatic activity. At the 1-week and 4-week time points, elevated caspase 6 immunoreactivity was detected in the dendritic processes and neuropil. These findings indicate that caspase 6 expression remains elevated long after the occurrence of acute cell death during epileptogenesis and epilepsy. Further, caspase 6 protein is not exclusively located in the somata of neurons, but also in dendrites. These data suggest that caspase 6 has functions other than execution of programmed cell death in epileptogenic hippocampus.
Alzheimer's disease brain is characterized by the abundant presence of amyloid deposits. Accumulation of the major constituent of these deposits, amyloid-beta (Abeta), has been associated with decreased neurotransmission, increased neuronal cell death, and with cognitive decline. The mechanisms underlying these phenomena have not yet been fully elucidated. We have previously shown that amyloid peptides like Abeta bind tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) and cause enhanced plasmin production. Here we describe the identification of five major neuronal cell-produced Abeta-associated proteins and how Abeta-stimulated plasmin formation affects their processing. These five proteins are all neuroendocrine factors (NEFs): chromogranins A, B and C; truncated chromogranin B; and VGF. Plasminogen caused processing of Abeta-bound (but not soluble) tPA, chromogranin B and VGF and the degradation products were released from Abeta. Processing of the neuroendocrine factors was dependent on tPA as it was largely abrogated in tPA-/- cells or in the presence of a specific tPA-inhibitor. If plasmin indeed produces NEF-derived peptides in vivo, some of these peptides may have biological activity, for instance in regulating neurotransmitter release that may affect the pathology of Alzheimer's disease.
Using animal models of alcoholism, previous studies suggest that neuropeptide Y (NPY) may be implicated in alcohol preference and consumption due to its role in the modulation of feeding and anxiety. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis previously identified an interval on rat chromosome 4 that is highly associated with alcohol preference and consumption using an F2 population derived from inbred alcohol-preferring (iP) and -nonpreferring (iNP) rats. NPY mapped to the peak of this QTL region and was prioritized as a candidate gene for alcohol-seeking behavior in the iP and iNP rats. In order to identify a potential mechanism for reduced NPY protein levels documented in the iP rat, genetic and molecular components that influence NPY expression were analyzed between iP and iNP rats. Comparing the iP rat to the iNP rat, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction detected significantly decreased levels of NPY mRNA expression in the iP rat in the six brain regions tested: nucleus accumbens, frontal cortex, amygdala, hippocampus, caudate-putamen, and hypothalamus. In addition, the functional significance of three previously identified polymorphisms was assessed using in vitro expression analysis. The polymorphism defined by microsatellite marker D4Mit7 in iP rats reduced luciferase reporter gene expression in SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells. These results suggest that differential expression of the NPY gene resulting from the D4mit7 marker polymorphism may contribute to reduced levels of NPY in discrete brain regions in the iP rats.
The host response to neural injury, which can include axonal sprouting and synaptic reorganization is likely to be under tight genetic regulatory control at the level of the genome and may be implicated in epileptogenesis. Despite its importance, however, the molecular basis of synaptic reorganization is unclear. We have studied the development of synaptic reorganization, semaphorin gene expression, and epileptogenesis in hippocampus of epileptogenic sensitive (FVB/NJ) and epileptogenic resistant (C57BL/6J) mice (i.e. distinct genetic backgrounds) after kainic acid-induced status epilepticus. Our results support the hypothesis that disruption of transcriptional regulation of axon guidance genes leads to a differential loss of tonic neuropilin-2 dependent activation of semaphorin 3F receptors on hippocampal neurons on distinct genetic backgrounds. This results in rearranged synaptic circuitry and thus promotes epileptogenesis. These findings may define biologic principles underlying the role of semaphorin signaling which may broadly apply to other systems undergoing neural regeneration.
We studied the development of neuronal intranuclear inclusions (NIIs), neuropil aggregates (NAs), and expression of expanded repeat polyglutamine protein in the HdhCAG(150) knockin mouse model of Huntington's disease (HD). Diffuse nuclear localization of huntingtin protein (htt) was noted initially within striatal neurons at approximately 28 weeks, followed by the development of striatal htt immunoreactive NIIs by approximately 40 weeks. Striatal NIIs were observed initially in clusters within the matrix compartment but subsequently became diffusely distributed throughout the striatum. In the oldest animals (107 weeks), NIIs were enlarged and diffuse nuclear htt immunoreactivity reduced. Expression of ubiquitin immunoreactive NIIs paralleled but lagged behind the expression of htt immunoreactive NIIs. Abundant NIIs were found by approximately 75 weeks in layers 3 and 4 of somatosensory cortex and in layer 2 of piriform cortex. In the oldest animals, greater than 100 weeks, some NIIs were found in many brain regions. NAs were found mainly within the globus pallidus and substantia nigra, perhaps reflecting expression in striatal terminals. Cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CBP) was not localized to NIIs, arguing against gross sequestration of this transcriptionally active protein. Comparison of the relative levels of a common polyglutamine epitope in HdhCAG(150) knockin and hprtCAG(146) knockin mice shows greater expression of the polyglutamine epitope in the phenotypically less aggressive HdhCAG(150) knockin line. HdhCAG(150) knockin mice may be a model of early pathologic changes in HD.
In the presence of 4-aminopyridine and excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists, individual neurons in brain slice preparations exhibit large gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated responses as a consequence of synchronous GABA release from a network of interneurons. These synchronized GABA responses are frequently associated with ectopic action potentials (EAPs), which are thought to be action potentials initiated in distal axon terminals which subsequently travel antidromically toward the soma. Ectopic action potentials feature prominently in some models of epilepsy. Neocortical synchronized GABA responses propagate across the cortex, predominantly in superficial layers. The role that EAPs may play in contributing to laminar differences in the synchronized GABA response has not been addressed. Here we examined the occurrence of EAPs during synchronized GABA responses in neurons within layers I and II/III. EAPs occurred in 78% of layer I interneurons and in 25% of layer II/III interneurons (including chandelier cells). EAPs were not observed in layer II/III pyramidal neurons. The prevalence of EAPs in layer I interneurons provides a mechanism by which layer I can support both the initiation and propagation of synchronized GABA responses. Thus, layer I interneurons are a critical component of a network capable of synchronizing a propagating wave of GABA release across the neocortex.
Glutamate is the main excitatory neurotransmitter in the cerebral cortex. Altered glutamatergic transmission has been suggested as having a central role in many neurodegenerative diseases. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are coupled to intracellular signal transduction via G proteins, and they mediate slower responses than ionotropic glutamate receptors. Group I mGluRs are positively coupled to phospholipase C beta1 (PLCbeta1). Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a human transmissible spongiform encephalopathy associated with a dysfunction in the membrane glycoprotein PrP which is converted into an abnormal isoform, with a predominant beta-sheet structure, that is pathogenic and partially resistant to protease digestion. Proteins associated with the signal transduction of group I mGluRs were examined in the frontal cortex (area 8) of 12 cases with sCJD and four age-matched controls, by means of gel electrophoresis and Western blotting of total homogenates. Densitometric analysis of the bands demonstrated decreased expression levels of PLCbeta1 and PLCgamma, a non-related phospholipase which is a substrate of tyrosine kinase, in CJD cases when compared with controls. Novel protein kinase C delta (nPKCdelta) has also been found to be significantly decreased in CJD cases. However, no modifications in mGluR1 cPKCalpha expression levels are found in CJD when compared with controls. No modifications in PLCbeta1 solubility in PBS-, deoxycholate- and sodium dodecylsulphate-soluble fractions have been observed in CJD when compared with controls. Finally, no interactions between PLCbeta1 and PrP, as revealed by immunoprecipitation assays, have been found in CJD and controls. The present results show, for the first time, reduced expression levels of phospholipases, particularly PLCbeta1, which may interfere with group I mGluR signaling in the cerebral cortex in CJD. These abnormalities are not the result of abnormal PLC solubility or interactions with PrP. Selective involvement of group I mGluRs may have functional effects on glutamatergic transmission modulation and processing in CJD.
Synaptosomal associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) is a component of the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein (NSF) attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complex which plays a central role in synaptic vesicle exocytosis. We have previously demonstrated that adult rat hippocampal GABAergic synapses, both in culture and in brain, are virtually devoid of SNAP-25 immunoreactivity and are less sensitive to the action of botulinum toxin type A, which cleaves this SNARE protein [Neuron 41 (2004) 599]. In the present study, we extend our findings to the adult mouse hippocampus and we also provide demonstration that hippocampal inhibitory synapses lacking SNAP-25 labeling belong to parvalbumin-, calretinin- and cholecystokinin-positive interneurons. A partial colocalization between SNAP-25 and glutamic acid decarboxylase is instead detectable in developing mouse hippocampus at P0 and, at a lesser extent, at P5. In rat embryonic hippocampal cultures at early developmental stages, SNAP-25 immunoreactivity is detectable in a percentage of GABAergic neurons, which progressively reduces with time in culture. Consistent with the presence of the substrate, botulinum toxin type A is partially effective in inhibiting synaptic vesicle recycling in immature GABAergic neurons. Since SNAP-25, beside its role as a SNARE protein, is involved in additional processes, such as neurite outgrowth and regulation of calcium dynamics, the presence of higher levels of the protein at specific stages of neuronal differentiation may have implications for the construction and for the functional properties of brain circuits.
Dentate granule cell (DGC) swelling was studied by imaging changes in light transmittance from hippocampal slices in the rat pilocarpine model of epilepsy and human epileptic specimens. Brief bath-application of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) induced swelling in the control rat DGC (physiological swelling). Physiological swelling was short-lasting, and rapidly recovered upon removal of NMDA. In contrast, the swelling induced in the pilocarpine-treated rat hippocampus and human epileptic hippocampus (epileptic swelling) was long-lasting, and often recovered slowly over an hour. Both types of swelling were blocked by the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, D-APV, suggesting that they shared the same induction mechanism. However, the swellings differed in their sensitivity to a calcium chelator, 1.2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N,N-tetra-acetate (BAPTA), and an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca2+-ATPase inhibitor, thapsigargin (TG). BAPTA and TG affected only epileptic swelling, and physiological swelling was spared. This suggested that the NMDAR-induced epileptic swelling might involve an additional mechanism for its maintenance, likely recruiting ER Ca2+ stores. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) slightly attenuated physiological swelling, and blocked epileptic swelling. The present study suggests a functional link between the activation of NMDAR and a release of Ca2+ from internal stores during the induction of epileptic swelling, and a neuroprotective role of BDNF on the NMDAR-induced swelling in the epileptic hippocampus.
Large amplitude electroencephalographic spindle waves (7-14 Hz) occur spontaneously in the neocortex during both sleep and awake immobility, and it has been proposed that synchronous neuronal activation during spindles may contribute to learning-related synaptic plasticity. Spindles can also be evoked in the sensorimotor cortex by electrical stimulation of cortical or thalamic inputs in the rat. To determine if strengthening cortical synapses can affect the initiation and maintenance of electrically evoked spindles, stimulation pulses were delivered at a range of intensities to the corpus callosum or ventrolateral thalamus in the awake rat before and after the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) by tetanization of the corpus callosum. The morphology of evoked spindles was similar to that of naturally occurring spindles. Spindles were evoked less reliably during slow-wave sleep than during waking, and this was correlated with smaller synaptic responses during slow-wave sleep. Similar to previous findings, daily tetanization of the corpus callosum for 15 days decreased the early component and increased the late component of synaptic responses evoked by corpus callosum stimulation, but did not significantly affect synaptic responses evoked by thalamic stimulation. Similarly, LTP induction increased the reliability with which low-intensity corpus callosum stimulation evoked spindles, but increases in spindles evoked by thalamic stimulation were not significant. Synaptic potentiation and the increased reliability of spindles developed with a similar time-course over the 15-day LTP induction period. These results reflect strong correlations between the strength of cortical layer V activation and the initiation of spindles in the sensorimotor cortex, and support the idea that monosynaptic and polysynaptic horizontal collaterals of layer V neurons can play a significant role in the initiation of spindles.
Hypoxic-ischemic (H-I) injury produces extensive damage to the hippocampus of young rats. We have recently shown that administration of 125 mg kg-1 clomethiazole (CMZ), a GABA(A)-agonist, provides complete histological protection against H-I injury if administered 3 h post-H-I (Brain Res 1035 (2005) 194). However, whether that histological protection translates into lasting functional preservation is unclear. To determine whether hippocampal-based circuits remain functionally intact in CMZ-protected H-I rats, we administered 125 mg kg-1 (high dose [CMZ-HD]) or 65 mg kg-1 (low dose [CMZ-LD]) CMZ, 3 h post-H-I, and examined numerous kindling parameters in the dorsal hippocampus 60 days following H-I. Kindling parameters included afterdischarge (AD) thresholds (ADTs), AD durations and kindling rates. Additional groups assessed included vehicle-injected H-I (VIH), hypoxic, ligated and naive rats. VIH, CMZ-HD, CMZ-LD and hypoxic rats all exhibited significantly faster kindling rates than naive rats. Thus, a previous traumatic event, even hypoxia alone, facilitated subsequent seizure propagation. Still, a significantly slower kindling rate was evident in CMZ-HD rats than in hypoxic, VIH or CMZ-LD rats. Moreover, while longer pre-kindling AD durations were observed in the damaged hippocampus of VIH compared with naive rats, this was not true for either CMZ-treated groups, hypoxic or ligated rats. Collectively, these findings suggest CMZ can suppress the epileptogenic effects of H-I. Surprisingly, however, both groups of CMZ-treated rats exhibited a four to nine times greater ADT than any other group and this effect was most profound in the CMZ-protected hippocampus. Thus, CMZ administration protected local neurons against terminal insult and left network excitability relatively normal with respect to seizure offset mechanisms but also caused profound elevation of local ADTs, which suggests a local hypoexcitability/increased inhibition. Finally, this study demonstrates, for the first time, that the kindling model can serve as a sensitive measure of function-related neuroprotective efficacy in animal models of ischemia.
Rodents that live in changing environments display different immune responses mediated in part by photoperiod (day length) cues. Siberian hamsters maintained in winter-like (short) photoperiods display smaller physiological and behavioral responses to immune challenges as compared with hamsters housed in summer-like (long) photoperiods. We hypothesized that these different response patterns are attributable to altered cytokine production in the hypothalamus in response to photoperiod changes. Female hamsters were housed in long or short days for 10 weeks to induce photoperiodic alterations, then injected with either LPS (a bacterial endotoxin) or saline. Fever and food intake were assessed 3 h post-injection; hypothalami and blood were collected 3, 6, and 12 h post-injection. LPS induced lower fever and reduction in food intake responses in short-day hamsters as compared with long-day hamsters. Additionally, short-day hamsters reduced IL-1beta and Tnfalpha expression in the hypothalamus 6 h after LPS injection, as measured by quantitative RT-PCR. Plasma estradiol concentrations did not differ between long- and short-day hamsters. These data suggest that differences in cytokine production in the hypothalamus may underlie the photoperiod-induced differences in sickness responses, and that these changes are not mediated by estradiol.
Changes in cellular activity in the subthalamic nucleus are a cardinal feature of Parkinson's disease and occur in rodents after lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway, a model of Parkinson's disease. GABA-ergic neurons from the globus pallidus provide a major input to the subthalamic nucleus. Previous electrophysiological studies revealed temporal changes in the activity of pallidal neurons after nigrostriatal lesions in rats. However, little is known about the impact of these changes on GABAergic transmission in the subthalamic nucleus. We have examined the behavioral responses to a local administration of the GABA A agonist muscimol into the subthalamic nucleus. Muscimol (0.01 and 0.1 microg) induced orofacial dyskinesia in normal rats; this response was blunted 2 weeks but enhanced 2 months after a unilateral lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway. The early decrease in the behavioral response occurred at a time when increased expression of mRNA for glutamic acid decarboxylase, the enzyme of GABA synthesis, and burst firing have been reported in the globus pallidus, suggesting an adaptive post-synaptic response to increased GABAergic transmission in the subthalamic nucleus. In contrast, we now show that glutamic acid decarboxylase mRNA is unchanged in the globus pallidus at the later time point, when electrophysiological changes also subside in this region. The increased behavioral response at this later time point may reflect a decreased activity in GABAergic inputs to the subthalamic nucleus. The results show time-dependent changes in behavioral responses to GABA A receptor stimulation in the subthalamic nucleus which may reflect adaptive changes in postsynaptic inhibitory responses after dopaminergic lesions.
Rodent seizure models have significantly contributed to our basic understanding of epilepsy. However, medically intractable forms of epilepsy persist and the fundamental mechanisms underlying this disease remain unclear. Here we show that seizures can be elicited in a simple vertebrate system e.g. zebrafish larvae (Danio rerio). Exposure to a common convulsant agent (pentylenetetrazole, PTZ) induced a stereotyped and concentration-dependent sequence of behavioral changes culminating in clonus-like convulsions. Extracellular recordings from fish optic tectum revealed ictal and interictal-like electrographic discharges after application of PTZ, which could be blocked by tetrodotoxin or glutamate receptor antagonists. Epileptiform discharges were suppressed by commonly used antiepileptic drugs, valproate and diazepam, in a concentration-dependent manner. Up-regulation of c-fos expression was also observed in CNS structures of zebrafish exposed to PTZ. Taken together, these results demonstrate that chemically-induced seizures in zebrafish exhibit behavioral, electrographic, and molecular changes that would be expected from a rodent seizure model. Therefore, zebrafish larvae represent a powerful new system to study the underlying basis of seizure generation, epilepsy and epileptogenesis.
The primary objective of our study was to examine the role of the inhibitory neurotransmitters glycine and GABA in modulating spontaneous activity and coordinating neurochemically induced locomotor-like rhythms in the mouse spinal cord. Motor outputs were recorded in lumbar ventral roots of 1-4-day old neonatal mice, and the function of glycinergic and GABAergic synapses in regulating spontaneous and induced activities was examined by suppressing synaptic inhibition using selective glycine or GABAA receptor antagonists. Strychnine (0.5 microM), a glycine receptor antagonist, did not change the pattern of spontaneous activity that consisted of random single spikes and discharges of variable durations and intervals. In contrast, blocking GABAA receptors with either picrotoxin (10 microM) or bicuculline (5 microM) triggered bilaterally synchronous, non-rhythmic discharges. These findings suggested that GABAergic synapses suppressed excitatory synapses, and their disinhibition synchronized spontaneous discharges between the two sides of the spinal cord. Locomotor-like rhythms alternating between the two sides of the spinal cord were triggered by the neurotransmitter agonists 5-HT, N-methyl-D,L-aspartic acid and dopamine. Blocking glycine receptors increased tonic discharges, and in most preparations it reduced the phase correlation between the alternating rhythms. Inhibiting GABAA receptor-mediated synapses synchronized the onset and prolonged the duration of rhythmic discharges. Intraburst alternating peaks were evident and those were suppressed by strychnine, suggesting that they were mediated via glycinergic synapses. Our findings indicated that GABAergic and glycinergic synapses played different roles in modulating neurochemically induced locomotion rhythms. GABAergic inhibition regulated the onset and duration of neurochemically induced locomotor-like rhythms, and glycinergic inhibition stabilized the pattern of the alternating rhythms.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), a metabolite of vitamin A, binds to retinoic acid receptors (RARs) to mediate gene transcription in target cells. We previously found that an ATRA supplement enhanced olfactory recovery rate in adult mice after olfactory bulb deafferentation. In this study, we examined the cellular localization of RARalpha, RARbeta, and RARgamma and the effects of surgery and ATRA treatment using immunocytochemistry. Mice received a left olfactory nerve transection with the right side serving as internal control. One day after surgery, the mice were given either ATRA mixed with sesame oil or just sesame oil. In the unoperated olfactory bulb, only RARalpha immunoreactivity (ir) was observed. In the unoperated right olfactory epithelium, RARalpha-ir was found in flask-shaped cells located in the supporting cell layer, in cell clusters above the basal cell layer, in cells in the lamina propria, in some respiratory cells and in the olfactory bulb. The flask-shaped cells did not immunostain for either neurons or sustentacular cells. RARbeta-ir was localized only in the respiratory cells while no RARgamma-ir was observed in the olfactory epithelium. The density of RARalpha-ir cells was higher in the operated left olfactory epithelium and highest after ATRA treatment. This study demonstrates the presence of RARs in the olfactory system, provides additional support that the ATRA-signaling pathway may be involved in the recovery of the olfactory epithelium after injury, and suggests a role for an unstudied cell type in that process.
The olfactory bulb, first relay of olfactory pathways, is densely innervated by serotoninergic centrifugal fibers originating from the raphe nuclei. Although serotonin innervation was reported to be involved in olfactory learning in mammals, the action of this neurotransmitter on its putative cellular targets has been never described through unitary recordings. This lack of data initiated the present study where the effects of 5HT on juxtaglomerular and mitral cells are analyzed using whole-cell recordings on olfactory bulb slices. Serotonin depolarizes 34% of 525 JG cells. A multivariate statistical analysis of juxtaglomerular cells characteristics shows that the serotonin responsive cell group can be individualized regarding their tonic discharge-mode in response to a direct current injection, their lower expression of hyperpolarization-activated cation current and their low membrane capacities. The use of ion channel blockers and ramp voltage protocol indicate that serotoninergic depolarization of juxtaglomerular cells may be due to a nonselective cation current with a reversal potential of -44 mV. Pharmacological tests with serotonin receptor antagonists and agonists reveal that 5HT action on juxtaglomerular cells would be mainly mediated by 5HT2C receptors. In mitral cells, serotonin acts on 49.1% of the 242 tested cells, inducing two types of responses. A first subset of mitral cells (26.8%, n=65) were hyperpolarized by serotonin. This response would be indirect and mediated by action of GABA on GABAA receptors since it was antagonized by bicuculline. The involved GABAergic neurons are hypothesized to be juxtaglomerular and granular cells, on which serotonin would act mainly via 5HT2C and via 5HT2A receptors respectively. The second subset of mitral cells (22.3%, n=54) were directly depolarized by serotonin acting through 5HT2A receptors. Our data on serotonin action on juxtaglomerular cells and mitral cells reveal a part of functional mechanisms whereby serotonin can act on olfactory bulb network. This is expected to enrich the understanding of its determining role in olfactory learning.
Intrathecal (IT) delivery of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ASO) has been used to study the function of specific gene products in spinal nociception. However, a lack of systematic studies on the spinal distribution and kinetics of IT ASO is a major hurdle to the utilization of this technique. In the present study, we injected rats IT with 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) modified phosphorothioate ASO (2'-O-MOE ASO) and examined anatomical and cellular location of the ASO in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) by immunocytochemistry. At 0.5 h after a single IT injection, immunostaining for ISIS 13920 (a 2'-O-MOE ASO targeting h-ras) localized superficially in the lumbar spinal cord, while at 24 h the immunostaining was distributed throughout the spinal cord and was predominantly intracellular. Double staining with cell type specific antibodies indicated that the ASO was taken up by both glia and neurons. ASO immunoreactivity was also observed in DRG after IT ISIS 13920. Capillary gel electrophoresis analysis showed that ISIS 22703, a 2'-O-MOE ASO targeting the alpha isozyme of protein kinase C (PKC), remained intact in spinal cord tissue and cerebrospinal fluid up to 24 h after the injection and no metabolites were detected. In contrast, after IT ISIS 11300, an unmodified phosphorothioate ASO with the same sequence as ISIS 22703, no full-length compound was detectable at 24 h, and metabolites were seen as early as 0.5 h. IT treatment with ISIS 22703 at doses that effectively down-regulated PKCalpha mRNA in spinal cord did not affect the mRNA expression in DRG. In summary, 2'-O-MOE ASO displayed high stability in spinal tissue after IT delivery, efficiently distributed to spinal cord, and internalized into both neuronal and non-neuronal cells. ASO are able to reach DRG after IT delivery; however, higher doses may be required to reduce target gene in DRG as compared with spinal cord.
The effects of histamine on excitatory synaptic transmission between the external capsule and basolateral amygdala (BLA) were examined using intracellular and field potential recordings in rat amygdala slices. Bath application of histamine (20 microM) suppressed intracellular excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs; 70.3+/-5.1% of control amplitude) in 43 of 64 BLA neurons, and potentiated EPSPs (341+/-81% of control amplitude) in 21 neurons, without changing resting membrane potential or input resistance. The histamine-induced suppression of EPSPs was accompanied by an increase in paired-pulse facilitation of the slopes of EPSPs, suggesting a presynaptic locus of the action. The suppressive effect could be blocked by the selective H3 antagonist thioperamide, and mimicked by the selective H3 agonist R-alpha-methylhistamine, indicating that the suppressive effect is mediated by the presynaptic H3 receptor. The potentiating effect of histamine on EPSPs was not accompanied by the change of paired-pulse facilitation and was not affected by the presence of H1, H2 or H3 receptor antagonists. In addition, the effective concentration of agonist to produce 50% of maximal response (EC50) of the potentiating action of histamine is 49 nM, much lower than the EC50 (470 nM) of the H3 receptor-mediated suppressive effect characterized here. These observations suggest a novel, high affinity and postsynaptically mediated effect of histamine. In extracellular recordings, histamine, at low concentration (200 nM), consistently potentiated field potentials. At high concentration (20 microM), histamine suppressed field potentials, but potentiated field potentials when H3 receptors were blocked. Taken together, these results revealed that histamine, via the presynaptic H3 receptor and a currently unknown mechanism, decreases or increases excitatory synaptic transmission in the BLA respectively. This specific histaminergic modulation of neuronal activity in the amygdala may play an important role in amygdala-mediated physiological and pathophysiological processes, such as fear, emotional learning and memory, temporal lobe epilepsy, and affective disorders.
While leukotriene C4 (LTC4) was originally identified as a potent bronchoconstrictor, the compound has versatile biological activities besides inflammatory reactions. Although the high content of LTC4 has been reported in the hypothalamus and median eminence, the precise localization of the compound remained obscure. To elucidate its possible functions in the neuroendocrine systems, we determined immunohistochemical localization of LTC4 synthase, a key enzyme to produce LTC4 using mouse brains. Light microscopy and confocal laser scanning microscopy showed that LTC4 synthase was selectively localized in the vasopressinergic magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular, supraoptic and suprachiasmatic nuclei and in the retrochiasmatic area, as well as in axons that emanated from these neurons to the pars nervosa of the pituitary gland. At subcellular level, however, LTC4 synthase and arginine vasopressin appeared to localize differently within individual neurons. LTC4 synthase immunoreactivity was also observed in the axons of the extrahypothalamic system including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, lateral habenular nucleus, midbrain central gray, medial amygdaloid nucleus and ventral septal area, although this immunoreactivity was relatively minor. The other brain regions did not contain LTC4 synthase immunoreactivity. The distribution of LTC4 synthase did not overlap with that of either oxytocin or luteinizing hormone releasing hormone. Therefore, LTC4 is considered to be involved in neural functions of the brain magnocellular vasopressinergic system such as water retention. LTC4 may also be involved in extrahypothalamic vasopressinergic neural functions including the regulation of learning and memory, social recognition memory, sexual and aggressive behavior, etc.
DCC (deleted in colorectal cancer)-the receptor of the netrin-1 neuronal guidance factor-is expressed and is active in the central nervous system (CNS) during development, but is down-regulated during maturation. The substantia nigra contains the highest level of netrin-1 mRNA in the adult rodent brain, and corresponding mRNA for DCC has also been detected in this region but has not been localized to any particular neuron type. In this study, an antibody raised against DCC was used to determine if the protein was expressed by adult dopamine neurons, and identify their distribution and projections. Significant DCC-immunoreactivity was detected in midbrain, where it was localized to ventrally displaced A9 dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra, and ventromedial A10 dopamine neurons predominantly situated in and around the interfascicular nucleus. Strong immunoreactivity was not detected in dopamine neurons found elsewhere, or in non-dopamine-containing neurons in the midbrain. Terminal fields selectively labeled with DCC antibody corresponded to known nigrostriatal projections to the dorsolateral striatal patches and dorsomedial shell of the accumbens, and were also detected in prefrontal cortex, septum, lateral habenular and ventral pallidum. The unique distribution of DCC-immunoreactivity in adult ventral midbrain dopamine neurons suggests that netrin-1/DCC signaling could function in plasticity and remodeling previously identified in dopamine projection pathways. In particular, a recent report that DCC is regulated through the ubiquitin-proteosome system via Siah/Sina proteins, is consistent with a potential involvement in genetic and sporadic forms of Parkinson's disease.
The peripheral muscle membrane protein rapsyn is essential for the formation and maintenance of high density acetylcholine receptor aggregates at the neuromuscular synapse. Rapsyn is concentrated at synaptic sites and is colocalized with acetylcholine receptors from the earliest stages of synaptogenesis. Previous studies have shown that recombinant rapsyn expressed in heterologous cells forms clusters, and acetylcholine receptors coexpressed with rapsyn are colocalized with rapsyn clusters. However, the molecular interactions involved in clustering of rapsyn are not well defined. To analyze the process of cluster formation by rapsyn we examined the formation of rapsyn clusters and complexes using mutant constructs specifically deleted for individual domains of rapsyn in the presence and absence of tagged, full-length rapsyn. Specific deletions of the tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domains 1 and 3 of rapsyn abrogated not only clustering of mutant rapsyns, but also, in a dominant negative fashion, the clustering of tagged, full-length rapsyn. We also analyzed rapsyn protein complexes isolated from cells transfected with tagged and untagged rapsyn. Our results show that both tagged and untagged rapsyn are present in immunoprecipitates of rapsyn from cotransfected cells, demonstrating that rapsyn molecules interact directly or indirectly to form oligomers. Mutants that were dominant negatives were also present in complexes containing tagged, full-length rapsyn. Together these results indicate that rapsyn forms clusters at the synapse by oligomerization, and suggest models for the mechanistic bases of this oligomerization via interactions mediated by TPRs 1 and 3.
Tob (transducer of ErbB2) is a negative cell cycle regulator with anti-proliferative activity in the periphery. Using a behavioral screening paradigm to look for novel gene functions in the brain, we identified Tob as a brain-expressed protein involved in learning and memory. Behavioral training of fear-conditioning triggered a transient elevation of Tob protein, which preceded the formation of long-term memory. Functional perturbation of Tob by intra-CA1 infusion of antisense oligonucleotides in rats impaired spatial learning and memory in the Morris water maze and long-term memory for contextual fear conditioning, two behavioral paradigms that require the hippocampus. Furthermore, long-term potentiation was suppressed by Tob antisense infusion into the CA1 region. Together, these results indicate that the negative cell cycle regulator Tob is a multifunctional protein involved in hippocampus-dependent learning and memory.
Recently, there has been a growing interest in long-term consequences of neonatal pain because modern neonatal intensive care units routinely employ procedures that cause considerable pain and may be followed by local inflammation and hyperalgesia lasting for several hours or even days. To address this question, we developed a rat model of short lasting (&lt;2 days) early local inflammatory insult produced by a single injection of 0.25% carrageenan (CAR) into the plantar surface of a hindpaw. Previously, we demonstrated that rats receiving this treatment within the first week after birth grow into adults with a global reduction in responsiveness to acute pain. Here, we report that these animals also manifest a low anxiety trait associated with reduced emotional responsiveness to stress. This conclusion is based in the following observations: (a) rats in our model display reduced anxiety on an elevated plus-maze; (b) in the forced swim test, these rats exhibit behavioral characteristics associated with stronger ability for stress coping; and (c) these animals have reduced basal and stress-induced plasma levels of such stress-related neuroendocrine markers as corticotropin-releasing factor, vasopressin, and adrenocorticotrophic hormone. In addition, we used DNA microarray and real-time reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction to profile long-term changes in gene expression in the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG; a region involved in both stress and pain modulation) in our animal model. Among the affected genes, serotonergic receptors were particularly well represented. Specifically, we detected increase in the expression of 5-HT1A, 5-HT1D, 5-HT2A, 5-HT2C and 5-HT4 receptors. Several of these receptors are known to be involved in the anxiolytic and analgesic activity of the PAG. Finally, to determine whether neonatal inflammatory insult induces elevation in maternal care, which may play a role in generating long-term behavioral alterations seen in our model, we examined maternal behavior for 3 days following CAR injection. Indeed, we observed a substantial increase in maternal attention to the pups at the time of inflammation, but this increase was not without its cost: a period of significant maternal neglect afterward.
Several studies indicate that metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) participate in the transmission of visual stimuli in optic layers of the superior colliculus (SC). We examined the cellular and subcellular distribution of the group III mGluR4a in superficial layers of the rat SC by means of a specific antiserum and a preembedding immunogold method for electron microscopy. Deposits of mGluR4a immunoparticles were mostly observed on presynaptic membranes of large synaptic terminals, which made asymmetrical synapses and contained abundant spherical, clear synaptic vesicles and numerous electron translucent mitochondria. These characteristic ultrastructural features correspond to retinocollicular synaptic terminals. Also, chains of synaptic retinal terminals along dendrites were labeled for mGluR4a. About 70% of morphologically identified retinal terminals were mGluR4a immunopositive. Furthermore, mGluR4a immunoreactivity in SC greatly disappeared following retinal ablation. About 28% of cortical terminals identified by anterograde tracing showed mGluR4a labeling, whereas only 2% of collicular GABAergic profiles were labeled for mGluR4a. These results reveal that retinal terminals are the major contributors to the mGluR4a immunoreactivity observed in the superior collicular circuitry.
Glomeruli of the main olfactory bulb are considered to serve as functional units in processing the olfactory information. Thus the fine tuning of the output level from each glomerulus is important to the information processing in the olfactory system. The interactions among neuronal elements in glomeruli might be one of main mechanisms regulating this output level. In the mouse main olfactory bulb neuronal connections via chemical synapses and gap junction in glomeruli were analyzed by the serial electron microscopical reconstruction. Gap junctions were encountered between diverse types of dendritic processes, between mitral/tufted cell dendrites, between mitral/tufted cell dendrites and periglomerular cell dendrites and between mitral/tufted cell dendrites and dendrites of some interneurons different from periglomerular cells. Then these morphological observations indicate that we must consider both direct coupling between mitral/tufted cells via gap junctions and indirect coupling between mitral/tufted cells via intervening interneuronal processes. One of gap junction-forming processes presynaptic in asymmetrical synapses was traced back to the soma of its origin located in the glomerular layer, which was thus identified as an external tufted cell. However, interestingly, it showed apparently different ultrastructural features from other external tufted cells located at the border between the glomerular and external plexiform layers; the latter resemble so-called mitral/tufted cells located in the external plexiform and mitral cell layers. Then external tufted cells were assumed to be heterogeneous in their ultrastructural features. We occasionally encountered several dendrites connected by gap junctions, which furthermore made chemical synapses with each other and with other surrounding processes. Thus both chemical synapses and gap junctions interconnect complexly various processes in the glomerulus, where the local circuit among intermingled olfactory nerves, mitral/tufted cell dendrites and interneuron dendrites is far more complex than previously schematized.
Phosphorylation of the transcription factor cyclic AMP (cAMP)-response element-binding protein (CREB) has been implicated in long-term synaptic plasticity and memory, and its activation has been proposed to be required for the maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP). The previously described temporal dynamics of CREB phosphorylation during the maintenance of LTP showed differences between experimental models. In the present study the level of CREB phosphorylation was evaluated in organotypic hippocampal slices from young adult rats (P25-30) after long-lasting LTP was induced. Immunohistochemistry and confocal imaging were used to determine the ratio between non-phosphorylated and phosphorylated CREB at a single cell resolution, revealing not only the temporal dynamics but also the extent of CREB phosphorylation. The activation of CREB after LTP-induction was compared with cAMP-activation after bath application of forskolin. An increase in cAMP by forskolin resulted in a persistent, uniform increase of the phosphorylated CREB (pCREB/CREB immunofluorescence ratio) in all hippocampal principal neurons. In contrast, the induction of long-lasting LTP in CA1 was accompanied by a local increase in the pCREB/CREB ratio. Both CREB activation and LTP induction in mature cultured slices required N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation. CREB phosphorylation continued to increase for 4 h during LTP maintenance. This sustained activation is in contrast to previous observations in acutely prepared slices and supports the hypothesis that CREB plays an important role during the late phases of LTP.
Variations in intracellular calcium activity ([Ca2+]i) play crucial roles in information processing in Purkinje neurons such as synaptic plasticity. Although Na+-Ca2+ exchanger (NCX) has been shown to participate in the regulation of homeostasis and secretion in neuronal cells, the physiological role of NCX in Purkinje neurons, such as a role in cerebellar synaptic plasticity, is not well understood. NCX in acutely dissociated rat Purkinje neurons was identified by double staining with anti-calbindin D-28k antibody and anti-NCX antibody. The physiological activity of NCX was examined by measuring transient intracellular Ca2+ changes resulting from the Ca2+ influx via reverse mode of NCX (with 0 mM Na+/2.5 mM Ca2+ solutions) and the efflux via the forward mode of NCX (with 140 mM Na+/0 mM Ca2+ solutions). This transient increase in Ca2+ concentration was not elicited in the cells pretreated with NCX antisense oligodeoxynucleotides. And the Ca2+ influx resulting from the reverse mode of NCX was significantly reduced by 2-[2-[4-(4-nitrobenyloxy) phenyl] ethyl] isothiourea methanesulfonate, while the Ca2+ efflux via forward mode was inhibited by bepridil. The physiological role of NCX in synaptic function was studied by measuring Ca2+ transients induced by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolone-propionate (AMPA) receptor activation. This AMPA-evoked response was decreased with the inhibition of NCX forward mode and also, to less degree, with the inhibition of reverse mode. In antisense oligodeoxynucleotides pretreated cells, the AMPA-evoked response was also reduced, as was the case in NCX-inhibitor treated cells. The inhibition of NCX activity had depressant effects on Ca2+ transients induced by AMPA receptor activation. These results suggest that NCX plays a physiological role in modulating the activity of cerebellar Purkinje neurons, such as synaptic plasticity, via interaction with AMPA receptors in Purkinje neurons.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs), retinoid X receptors (RXRs), CCAAT/enhancer binding proteins (C/EBPs) and beta-catenin are transcription factors involved in cell differentiation. The aim of this work was to investigate the occurrence and variations of these proteins during astrocyte differentiation. Primary cultures of mouse cortical astrocytes were characterized using nestin, A2B5 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) as differentiation markers, during a period of 21 days in vitro (DIV). Glycogen and triglyceride accumulation were also studied. At 3 DIV the cultures were mainly constituted by neural progenitor cells, as assessed by their immunofluorescent pattern. At this time PPARs and beta-catenin were localized to the cytoplasm. Interestingly, some cells contained Oil Red O-positive lipid droplets. Between 7 and 21 DIV, nestin decreased, while GFAP increased, indicating ongoing astroglial differentiation. beta-catenin, predominantly nuclear at 7 DIV, later localized to membranes. Redistribution of all three PPAR isotypes from the cytoplasm to the nucleus was observed starting from 7 DIV. Between 7 and 14 DIV, C/EBPalpha, PPARalpha, RXRalpha and glycogen content increased. Between 14 and 21 DIV, PPARbeta/delta decreased, while PPARgamma, C/EBPbeta and delta and lipid droplet-containing cells increased. At 21 DIV both A2B5-/GFAP+ and A2B5+/GFAP+ cells were predominantly observed, indicating differentiation toward type-1 and type-2 astrocytes, although the presence of GFAP- cells demonstrates the persistence of neural precursors in the culture even at this time point. In conclusion, our results, reporting modifications of PPARs, RXRs, C/EBPs and beta-catenin during culture time, strongly suggest the involvement of these transcription factors in astrocyte differentiation. Specifically, beta-catenin translocation from the nucleus to plasma membrane, together with PPARbeta/delta decrease and C/EBPalpha increase, could be related to decreased proliferation at confluence, while PPARalpha and gamma and all C/EBPs could participate in differentiation processes, such as glycogenesis and lipidogenesis.
The inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA has both inhibitory and enhancing effects on short-term memory for a bead discrimination task in the young chick. Low doses of GABA (1-3 pmol/hemisphere) injected into the multimodal association area of the chick forebrain, inhibit strongly reinforced memory, whereas higher doses (30-100 pmol/hemisphere) enhance weakly reinforced memory. The effect of both high and low doses of GABA is clearly on short-term memory in terms of both the time of injection and in the time that the memory loss occurs. We argue on the basis of relative sensitivities to GABA and to selective GABA receptor antagonists that low doses of GABA act at GABAC receptors (EC50 approximately 1 microM) and the higher doses of GABA act via GABAA receptors (EC50 approximately 10 microM). The selective GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline inhibited strongly reinforced memory in a dose and time dependent manner, whereas the selective GABAC receptor antagonists TPMPA and P4MPA enhanced weakly reinforced in a dose and time dependent manner. Confirmation that different levels of GABA affect different receptor subtypes was demonstrated by the shift in the GABA dose-response curves to the selective antagonists. It is clear that GABA is involved in the control of short-term memory formation and its action, enhancing or inhibiting, depends on the level of GABA released at the time of learning.
We investigated parvalbumin (PV) and calretinin (CR) containing interneurons in the rat entorhinal cortex. RNA amplification following single cell dissection of immunohistochemically labeled cells from layers II to VI revealed that PV cells, in contrast to CR cells, express the m2 muscarinic receptor (M2AchR) protein. Double immunostaining to confirm the results of RNA amplification indicated that the majority of PV cells contain M2AchR protein, whereas only a small proportion of CR cells do. In contrast, a large number of layer I CR cells, which are mostly Cajal-Retzius cells, were positive for M2AchR. RNA amplification following dissection of these cells also revealed that they contain the M2AchR protein. These findings emphasize that there are significant differences in the expression of different proteins, even among similar neuronal types in the same brain region. This highlights the importance of accurately collecting single cells, and knowledge of anatomical details in molecular biological studies.
The spontaneous or background discharge patterns of in vivo single neuron is mostly considered as neuronal noise, which is assumed to be devoid of any correlation between successive inter-spike-intervals (ISI). Such random fluctuations are modeled only statistically by stochastic point process, lacking any temporal correlation. In this study, we have investigated the nature of spontaneous irregular fluctuations of single neurons from human hippocampus-amygdala complex by three different methods: (i) detrended fluctuation analysis (DFA), (ii) multiscale entropy (MSE), (iii) rate estimate convergence. Both the DFA and MSE analysis showed the presence of long-range power-law correlation over time in the ISI sequences. Moreover, we observed that the individual spike trains presented non-random structure on longer time-scales and showed slow convergence of rate estimates with increasing counting time. This power-law correlation and the slow convergence of statistical moments were eliminated by randomly shuffling the ISIs even though the distributions of ISIs were preserved. Thus the power-law relationship arose from long-term correlations among ISIs that were destroyed by shuffling the data. Further, we found that neurons which showed long-range correlations also showed statistically significant correlated firing as measured by correlation coefficient or mutual information function. The presence of long-range correlations indicates the history-effect or memory in the firing pattern by the associative formation of a neuronal assembly.
This study was carried out to identify lamprey neurones relaying trigeminal sensory inputs to reticulospinal cells. Double labeling with fluorescent tracers was used in vitro. Fluorescein-conjugated dextran amines were applied to the proximal stump of the cut trigeminal nerve on both sides, and Texas Red-conjugated dextran amines were injected unilaterally in the middle (MRRN) or the posterior (PRRN) rhombencephalic reticular nuclei. Texas Red retrogradely labeled cells were found ipsi- and contralateral to each injection. Any of these cells with the soma or at least a major dendrite among the fluorescein-labeled trigeminal afferent axons was considered a candidate relay cell. Of these two possibilities, only cells with their soma among the fluorescein-labeled trigeminal afferents were found. The candidate relay cells projecting to the MRRN were mostly clustered at the caudal vestibular nerve level within the trigeminal descending tract, whereas the majority of those projecting to the PRRN were located more caudally. The diameter of candidate relay cells ranged from 9.2 to 24.6 mum and 9.2 to 46.1 mum, after MRRN and PRRN injections, respectively. A possible relay function for these cells was tested with electrophysiological experiments. The intracellular responses to trigeminal nerve stimulation were recorded in reticulospinal cells under control conditions and after ejections of a combination of glutamate ionotropic receptor antagonists over the candidate relay cells in small areas along the sulcus limitans. The synaptic responses elicited in MRRN reticulospinal cells were maximally depressed when ejections were made at the level of the vestibular nerve, in accord with the anatomical data. The synaptic responses in PRRN reticulospinal cells showed maximal depression when ejections were made slightly more caudally. Altogether, these results suggest that cells located within the trigeminal descending tract and projecting to reticular nuclei are likely to be the sensory trigeminal relays to reticulospinal neurones in lampreys.
We previously found that patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) were impaired with respect to recognition of fear and disgust in facial expressions. To investigate the neural mechanisms that underlie this impairment, we recorded visual event-related potentials (ERPs) in response to the viewing of fearful facial expressions. Ten normal elderly volunteers and nine patients with PD were studied. Fearful, surprised, and neutral facial expressions were presented randomly for 500 ms each, with a probability of 0.1, 0.1, and 0.8, respectively. The locations of the components of the ERPs were analyzed using a scalp-skull-brain/dipole tracing method. The ERPs elicited in response to the facial stimuli consisted of a negative peak (N1), two positive peaks, and a subsequent slow negative shift. For N1, the equivalent current dipoles were concentrated in the fusiform gyrus, right superior temporal gyrus, parahippocampal gyrus, cingulate cortex, and cerebellum, in normal subjects. In response to the fearful stimulus, dipoles were also generated from the amygdala in seven out of 10 normal subjects. In contrast, in patients with PD, N1 was centered bilaterally in the angular gyrus and supramarginal gyrus, and there was no neuronal activity in the amygdala. After N1, dipoles moved toward the frontal region in normal subjects, whereas they remained in the parietal lobes in patients with PD. These results suggest that neither the amygdala nor the temporal visual-associated cortices are involved in responding to fearful expressions in patients with PD. Corticostriatal connections may be variably affected by a lack of dopamine or by pathological changes in the amygdala. Thus, somatosensory recruitment may overcome the mild cognitive emotional deficits that are present in patients with PD owing to a dysfunction of the amygdala.
Aminoglycosides are commonly used antibiotics that often induce ototoxicity leading to permanent hair cell loss and hearing impairment. We hereby examined whether minocycline protects hair cells from gentamicin-induced hair cell damage. Two millimolar gentamicin significantly induced outer hair cell damage and the addition of minocycline to gentamicin-treated explants significantly increased hair cell survival in a dose-dependent manner. Additionally, we demonstrated that gentamicin induced p38 MAPK phosphorylation, cytochrome c release, and caspase 3 activation in these cells and these remarkable changes were blocked by minocycline treatments. Furthermore, we showed that the inhibitor of p38 MAPK or the inhibitor of caspase 3 only partially blocked gentamicin-induced hair cell damage, and the pretreatment of explants with the inhibitor of p38 MAPK and the inhibitor of caspase 3 together exerted a synergic protective effect against gentamicin-induced hair cell damage. Our results suggest that minocycline blocks gentamicin-induced hair cell loss possibly by inhibition of three mechanisms: p38 MAPK phosphorylation, cytochrome c release, and caspase 3 activation. This finding may explain why minocycline has protective activity in a variety of apoptotic models. Therapeutic intervention by using minocycline or related drugs may be a novel means for preventing inner ear injury following the use of aminoglycoside.
Almost all sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglia have a mechanosensitive receptive field in the periphery. We have shown that the sensitivity to mechanical stimuli of a subset of sensory neurons that are slowly adapting mechanoreceptors (SAM) is strongly dependent on the availability of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Here we have investigated whether the ASIC2 sodium channel, recently shown by us to be necessary for normal SAM sensitivity, might be regulated by BDNF and thus partially account for the down-regulation of SAM sensitivity seen in BDNF deficient mice. We show that the mRNA for ASIC2 channels is reduced in the DRG of BDNF deficient mice indicating that BDNF might maintain its expression in vivo. We also made short-term cultures of sensory neurons from adult BDNF deficient mice and used a specific antibody to detect the presence of ASIC2 channels in different classes of sensory neurons. We observed that the channel protein was dramatically down-regulated selectively in medium and large diameter neurons and this expression could be rescued in a dose and time dependent manner by addition of BDNF to the culture (10-100 ng/ml). Drugs that block new transcription or protein synthesis also prevented the rescue effects of BDNF. We observed that ASIC2 channels were down-regulated in sensory neurons taken from neurotrophin-4 and neurotrophin-3 deficient mice; these effects might be due to a selective loss of neurons that normally express large amounts of ASIC2 channels. In summary, our data identify the ASIC2 channel as a target of BDNF signaling in vivo and suggest that the functional down-regulation of sensory mechanotransduction in BDNF deficient mice is in part due to loss of ASIC2 expression.
Myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS) is a major in vivo substrate for protein kinase C in the brain and has been implicated in cellular processes associated with cytoskeletal restructuring such as synaptic trafficking and neurotransmitter release. A phosphorylation-site specific antibody against Ser159-phospho-MARCKS (pS159-Mar-Ab) revealed that MARCKS is phosphorylated at Ser159 by Rho-kinase and that its phosphorylation is inhibited by the Rho-kinase specific inhibitor H-1152. Since the function of MARCKS is regulated by phosphorylation at multiple sites, here we examined the involvement of Rho-kinase in relation to phosphorylation of MARCKS at Ser159 in inflammatory and neuropathic pain by H-1152. When intrathecally administered 10 min before s.c. injection of formalin, H-1152 at 10 and 100 ng attenuated the second-phase, but not the first-phase, pain-like behaviors in the formalin test. Neuropathic pain induced by selective L5 spinal nerve transection was also relieved by intrathecal injection of H-1152. Nitric oxide synthase activity visualized by NADPH diaphorase histochemistry increased in the superficial layer of the spinal cord 30 min after formalin injection and 7 days after nerve transection, which were blocked by H-1152. Phosphorylation of MARCKS at Ser159 was detected in the spinal cord by pS159-Mar-Ab and the level of phosphorylation increased in the superficial layer after nerve transection. In contrast, immunoreactivities of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and MARCKS did not change significantly in the spinal cord before and after nerve transection. Taken together, the present study demonstrates that Rho-kinase is involved in inflammatory pain and the maintenance of neuropathic pain through phosphorylation of MARCKS at Ser159.
The aim of this work was to study whether caffeine or theophylline chronically consumed during pregnancy affect inhibitory adenylyl cyclase pathway mediated by adenosine, in rat brain of both mothers and full-term fetuses. Immunoblotting analysis revealed a significant decrease in alphaGi(1,2) subunit level (27-29% in mothers, 15-18% in fetuses), associated with a significant increase in the mRNA level coding alphaGi(1) in both maternal and fetal rat brain (12-22%) after methylxanthine intake. No significant differences in alphaGi(3) level were detected in any case. On the other hand, forskolin- and forskolin plus guanosine-5'-O(3-thiotriphosphate) tetralithium salt-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity was significantly decreased (30-36%) in maternal brain. Moreover, adenylyl cyclase inhibition elicited by N(6)-cyclohexyladenosine, specific adenosine A(1) receptor agonist, was also significantly decreased in caffeine- (40.5%) and theophylline- (55.0%) treated mothers, suggesting a desensitization of adenosine A(1) receptor/adenylyl cyclase pathway in maternal brain. However, no significant differences were detected in fetal brain between control and treated animals. Therefore, caffeine or theophylline chronic intake during pregnancy differently modulates inhibitory adenylyl cyclase pathway mediated by adenosine in maternal and fetal brain causing a loss of the system responsiveness only in maternal brain but down-regulating Gi(1) protein in both mother and fetus brain.
Inhibition of the median raphe nucleus (MRN) by the local injection of 5-HT(1A) or GABA(A) receptor agonists produces strong activational effects on feeding, drinking and locomotor activity. Using an animal model of relapse, we have shown that intra-MRN injection of the 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) reinstates alcohol seeking in rats. The circuitry underlying the behavioral effects of intra-MRN injection of these drugs is not known. In order to identify the brain areas that may be involved, we measured levels of mRNA of the immediate early gene c-fos in discrete nuclei of the rat brain following intra-MRN infusions of these drugs. Male Wistar rats received intra-MRN infusions of 8-OH-DPAT (1 mug), muscimol (25 ng) or saline vehicle immediately prior to placement in locomotor activity chambers. Thirty minutes later, they were decapitated, and their brains processed for in situ hybridization of c-fos mRNA. In agreement with previous reports, injections of 8-OH-DPAT or muscimol into the MRN resulted in large increases in locomotor activity. Intra-MRN injections of these drugs increased c-fos in a number of brain nuclei previously shown to be involved in the rewarding effects of drugs of abuse in a regionally specific manner. Both drugs significantly increased the expression of c-fos mRNA in the medial frontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, lateral septum, dorsal bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and ventral tegmental area. In the ventral hippocampus, only 8-OH-DPAT increased c-fos, while in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala and locus coeruleus, it was increased only by muscimol. These results are discussed in terms of the projections of the MRN and the pathways involved in relapse to alcohol and drug seeking.
Gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) is a short-chain fatty acid naturally occurring in the mammalian brain, which recently emerged as a major recreational drug of abuse. GHB has multiple neuronal mechanisms including activation of both the GABA(B) receptor, and a distinct GHB-specific receptor. This complex GHB-GABA(B) receptor interaction is probably responsible for the multifaceted pharmacological, behavioral and toxicological profile of GHB. Drugs of abuse exert remarkably similar effects upon reward-related circuits, in particular the mesolimbic dopaminergic system and the nucleus accumbens (NAc). We used single unit recordings in vivo from urethane-anesthetized rats to characterize the effects of GHB on evoked firing in NAc &quot;shell&quot; neurons and on spontaneous activity of antidromically identified dopamine (DA) cells located in the ventral tegmental area. GHB was studied in comparison with the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen and antagonist (2S)(+)-5,5-dimethyl-2-morpholineacetic acid (SCH50911). Additionally, we utilized a GHB analog, gamma-(p-methoxybenzil)-gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (NCS-435), devoid of GABA(B) binding properties, but with high affinity for specific GHB binding sites. In common with other drugs of abuse, GHB depressed firing in NAc neurons evoked by the stimulation of the basolateral amygdala. On DA neurons, GHB exerted heterogeneous effects, which were correlated to the baseline firing rate of the cells but led to a moderate stimulation of the DA system. All GHB actions were mediated by GABA(B) receptors, since they were blocked by SCH50911 and were not mimicked by NCS-435. Our study indicates that the electrophysiological profile of GHB is close to typical drugs of abuse: both inhibition of NAc neurons and moderate to strong stimulation of DA transmission are distinctive features of diverse classes of abused drugs. Moreover, it is concluded that addictive and rewarding properties of GHB do not necessarily involve a putative high affinity GHB receptor.
Diet restriction (DR) in rodents increases lifespan, reduces age-related disease and pathology, increases stress responses, and maintains better function later into life compared with conventional ad libitum (AL) feeding. We have been investigating different DR regimens and also DR mimetics that stimulate stress response pathways that are activated by DR. By inhibiting glycolysis, feeding or injection of 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG) has been proposed as a DR mimetic and has been shown to provide neuroprotection. In the current study, we examined whether 2DG treatment produces behavioral changes similar to those observed in DR rats following stimulation of the dopaminergic (DA) system by D-amphetamine (AMPH). Male Fischer 344 rats were maintained on different dietary regimens: 40% daily DR (40% DR); every-other-day feeding (EOD); or AL with some groups provided food containing 0.4% 2DG or injected i.p. with 2DG. In addition, we examined the persistence of effects of DR or 2DG feeding after switching rats to AL. When locomotor activity was assessed at different time points following initiation of dietary treatments, we noted that the enhancement of AMPH-induced locomotor responses emerged earlier in DR rats than observed in 2DG fed rats, but 40% DR and EOD rats responded in a similar manner. Enhanced locomotor responses persisted in 2DG fed rats even when returned to normal diet for 1 month and in the case of DR rats even after 2 months of AL feeding. Three weeks of 2DG injections also enhanced AMPH response, but this effect was transient. The most important finding was that 2DG did not affect body weight or diet intake yet had effects similar to DR. Thus, 2DG appears to activate DA pathways in the same direction as DR does but without the necessity of reducing caloric intake.
Inhibition of glutamine synthesis reduces astrocyte swelling and associated physiological abnormalities during acute ammonium acetate infusion in anesthetized rats. We tested the hypothesis that inhibition of glutamine accumulation during more prolonged ammonium acetate infusion in unanesthetized rats reduces cortical astrocyte swelling and immunohistochemical changes in astrocytic proteins. Rats received a continuous i.v. infusion of either sodium acetate or ammonium acetate for 24 h to increase plasma ammonia from about 30-400 mumol/l. Cohorts were pretreated with vehicle or l-methionine-S-sulfoximine (MSO; 0.83 mmol/kg). MSO reduced glutamine synthetase activity by 57% and glutamine synthetase immunopositive cell number by 69%, and attenuated cortical glutamine accumulation by 71%. Hyperammonemia increased the number of swollen astrocytes in cortex and MSO reduced this increase to control values. The number of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunopositive cells in cortex was greater in hyperammonemic rats and the increase in superficial cortical layers was attenuated by MSO. Immunoreactivity for the gap junction protein connexin-43 in the neuropil, assessed by optical density, was greater in the hyperammonemic group compared with controls, but this increase was not attenuated by MSO. No changes in the optical density of GLT1 glutamate transporter immunoreactivity in cortex were detected in any group. We conclude that glutamine synthetase inhibition reduces astrocyte swelling and ameliorates some of the reactive astroglial cytoskeletal alterations seen at 24 h of hyperammonemia, but that gap junction changes in astrocytes occur independently of glutamine accumulation and swelling.
Striatal cholinergic interneurons play a pivotal role in the integrative sensorimotor functions of the basal ganglia. The major excitatory input to these interneurons arises from glutamatergic neurons of the parafascicular nucleus of the thalamus (Pf). Thalamic regulation of cholinergic interneurons, however, may also include an indirect inhibitory component mediated by the axon collaterals of GABAergic medium spiny neurons that are also innervated by Pf. The present study examined thalamic regulation of striatal cholinergic interneurons by employing dual probe in vivo microdialysis in freely moving animals to determine the effect of pharmacological manipulation of Pf on acetylcholine (ACh) efflux in intact and dopamine-lesioned striata. In intact animals, reverse dialysis application of the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline (50 microM) into Pf, likely disinhibiting Pf neurons, significantly decreased striatal ACh efflux. When striatal GABA(A) receptors were blocked by simultaneous reverse dialysis application of bicuculline (10 microM), however, the same manipulation significantly increased ACh efflux. Qualitatively similar results were obtained in experiments employing a higher concentration of bicuculline (200 microM). Application of the GABA agonist muscimol (500 microM) into Pf, likely inhibiting Pf neurons, decreased ACh efflux only when the experiment was conducted under blockade of striatal GABA(A) receptors. These data are consistent with the existence of an indirect, inhibitory, GABA(A) receptor-mediated component of ACh regulation that is most clearly manifested when Pf is disinhibited and with the existence of a direct excitatory component of ACh regulation, evident when Pf is inhibited. Manipulation of Pf using very high concentrations of drug (500 microM bicuculline, 2 mM muscimol), however, yielded data consistent only with direct excitatory thalamic regulation. In contrast to results obtained in intact animals, in animals with prior (3 weeks) unilateral lesion of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway, bicuculline application (50 muM) in Pf significantly increased striatal ACh efflux, irrespective of simultaneous blockade of striatal GABA(A) receptors. The results of experiments in which muscimol (500 microM) was applied in Pf were similar to those obtained in intact animals, however. Baseline ACh efflux was not significantly elevated in dopamine-lesioned animals. These results indicate a qualitative alteration in the effectiveness of an inhibitory component of the thalamic regulation of ACh efflux in the dopamine depleted striatum, evident during increased thalamostriatal input. Such altered regulation of striatal ACh output is likely to have profound consequences for integrative function in the parkinsonian basal ganglia.
Widespread production of knockout and transgenic mice has led to an increased use of mice as animal models for studies of normal- and patho-physiology. Hence, the precise mapping of central transmitter/peptide systems in the mouse has become essential for the interpretation of functional studies and for the correct correlation with findings obtained in the rat, primates and/or human. In this regard, the current study reports the autoradiographic localization of [(125)I]-galanin (GAL) binding sites in brain of the common C57BL/6J and 129OlaHsd mouse strains, as well as in GAL and galanin receptor-1 (GalR1) knockout (KO) mice. In C57BL/6J and 129OlaHsd mice, [(125)I]-GAL binding sites were detected throughout the brain, including moderate-high relative densities in the basal ganglia (caudate putamen, nucleus [n.] accumbens, olfactory tubercle, substantia nigra), limbic regions (septum, bed n. stria terminalis, ventral hippocampus, amygdala), cingulate, retrosplenial, entorhinal cortex, centro-lateral/medial thalamic n., preoptic/lateral hypothalamus, midbrain (superior colliculus, periaqueductal gray), pons/medulla oblongata (parabrachial, pontine reticular and solitary tract n.) and cerebellar cortex. [(125)I]-GAL binding levels were low or absent in main olfactory bulb, neocortex, ventrolateral/geniculate thalamic n., dorsal hippocampus, inferior colliculus and cranial motor n. In simultaneous determinations, relative [(125)I]-GAL binding site densities in brain were generally lower in C57BL/6J than in 129OlaHsd mice, while the density and distribution of central binding in the GAL-KO mouse was essentially identical to that in its background-129OlaHsd strain. In contrast, no specific [(125)I]-GAL binding was detected in any region of GalR1-KO mouse brain, revealing that under the experimental conditions used, the peptide ligand binding is predominantly (exclusively) to the GalR1 subtype. This evaluation of GAL receptor site distribution in mouse brain has revealed similarities and some differences with the equivalent system in rat and provides a valuable reference for future comparative studies of central GAL transmission.
In women, the late luteal phase or &quot;premenstrual&quot; period is commonly associated with psychological disturbances, which include mood changes and increased aggression. The underlying cause is unknown but one possibility is that fluctuations in levels of neuroactive steroids precipitate changes in expression of GABA(A) receptor subunits that result in functional changes in inhibitory control systems. The present study investigated the levels of expression of alpha4, beta1 and delta GABA(A) receptor subunits in the periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) in rats and whether plasticity occurs during the oestrous cycle in females. In male rats alpha4, beta1 and delta subunit immunoreactive neurones were present throughout the PAG in similar numbers. In female rats in proestrus, oestrus and early dioestrus, the density of alpha4, beta1 and delta subunit immunoreactive cells was similar to males. However, in late dioestrus, the numbers increased significantly, especially in the dorsolateral PAG, a region which is particularly rich in GABAergic interneurones. These parallel changes may reflect an increase in expression of the alpha4beta1delta GABA(A) receptor subtype. Recombinant alpha4beta1delta receptors, expressed in Xenopus oocytes, exhibited and EC(50) for GABA an order of magnitude lower (2.02+/-0.33 microM; mean+/-S.E.M.) than that found for the most ubiquitous alpha1beta2gamma2 GABA(A) receptor (32.8+/-2.5 microM). Increased expression of alpha4beta1delta GABA(A) receptors in the interneurones of the PAG could render the panic circuitry abnormally excitable by disinhibiting the ongoing GABAergic inhibition. Similar changes in neuronal excitability within the PAG in women consequent to falling steroid levels in the late luteal phase of the menstrual cycle could contribute to the development of pre-menstrual dysphoria.
Superior colliculus (SC) ablation in neonatal rats results in a rapid increase in retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death. This injury-induced death is reduced by exogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor or neurotrophin-4/5 (NT-4/5), but the protective effect of these molecules is transient, delaying but not preventing neuronal loss. We sought to discover why neurotrophins only temporarily reduce RGC death after target ablation, focusing on changes in neurotrophin receptor expression and possible changes in growth factor dependency. In unlesioned rats, receptor tyrosine kinase B (trkB) immunohistochemistry revealed no change in the number of trkB positive cells in the RGC layer 24 h after intraocular NT-4/5 injection. However, after SC lesions there were significantly less immunoreactive cells and, surprisingly, even fewer immunoreactive cells in NT-4/5 injected eyes. Semi-quantitative confocal analysis of immunofluorescence intensity revealed an increase in trkB staining in the RGC layer in unlesioned rats 24 h after NT-4/5 injection, whereas in SC-lesioned animals exposed to NT-4/5 there was a significant decrease in staining. To determine whether injured neonatal RGCs can switch their trophic requirements, different doses of ciliary neurotrophic factor were given intraocularly, either alone or combined with NT-4/5. We also tested an SC-derived chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan that has been reported to promote neonatal RGC survival. None of these interventions reduced lesion-induced RGC death 24 or 36 h after SC ablation. In summary, we show that developing RGCs do not shift their trophic dependence to other survival factors following injury; rather, the application of neurotrophins causes a down-regulation of the cognate trkB receptor, presumably altering the long-term responsiveness of neonatal RGCs to exogenous neurotrophins. These data highlight the difficulty in promoting long-term neuronal survival when using one-off administration of recombinant growth factors.
The Tg2576 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD) exhibits age-dependent amyloid beta (Abeta) deposition in the brain. We studied electroencephalographically defined sleep and the circadian regulation of waking activities in Tg2576 mice to determine whether these animals exhibit sleep abnormalities akin to those in AD. In Tg2576 mice at all ages studied, the circadian period of wheel running rhythms in constant darkness was significantly longer than that of wild type mice. In addition, the increase in electroencephalographic delta (1-4 Hz) power that occurs during non-rapid eye movement sleep after sleep deprivation was blunted in Tg2576 mice relative to controls at all ages studied. Electroencephalographic power during non-rapid eye movement sleep was shifted to higher frequencies in plaque-bearing mice relative to controls. The wake-promoting efficacy of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor donepezil was lower in plaque-bearing Tg2576 mice than in controls. Sleep abnormalities in Tg2576 mice may be due in part to a cholinergic deficit in these mice. At 22 months of age, two additional deficits emerged in female Tg2576 mice: time of day-dependent modulation of sleep was blunted relative to controls and rapid eye movement sleep as a percentage of time was lower in Tg2576 than in wild type controls. The rapid eye movement sleep deficit in 22 month-old female Tg2576 mice was abolished by brief passive immunization with an N-terminal antibody to Abeta. The Tg2576 model provides a uniquely powerful tool for studies on the pathophysiology of and treatments for sleep deficits and associated cholinergic abnormalities in AD.
Identification of genetic mechanisms that promote the onset of stroke and transient cerebral ischemic attack symptoms in carotid atherosclerotic patients would further our understanding of the pathophysiology of this disease and could lead to new pharmacological and molecular therapies. Using Affymetrix Human Genome 230 GeneChip set, the present study evaluated the gene expression differences in geometrically similar carotid artery plaque samples extricated from six symptomatic stroke patients and four asymptomatic patients. There was no significant difference in the degree of stenosis between the two groups. Of the 44,860 transcripts analyzed, 289 (approximately 0.6% of the total transcripts) were differentially expressed between the plaques from the symptomatic and asymptomatic groups (236 were expressed more abundantly and 53 were expressed less abundantly in the symptomatic group). Of the 236 transcripts expressed more abundantly in the symptomatic plaques, 71% (167 transcripts) indicate an active cell proliferation and neoplastic process. These include oncogenes, growth factors, tumor promoters, tumor markers, angiogenesis promoters, transcription factors, RNA splicing factors, RNA processing proteins, signal transduction mediators and those that control the metabolism. Real-time polymerase chain reaction confirmed the increased expression of 63 transcripts in the symptomatic plaques. The other groups of transcripts expressed more abundantly in the symptomatic plaques are those that control ionic homeostasis, those that participate in the progression of degenerative neurological diseases (Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Huntington's disease) and epilepsy. This indicates that symptomatic plaques are molecularly and biochemically more active than the asymptomatic plaques, or active plaque growth precipitates stroke symptoms.
We investigated conditions that promote basal and activity-dependent neuronal apoptosis in postnatal rat hippocampal cultures. Low-density mixed cultures of astrocytes and neurons exhibited lower sensitivity than high-density cultures to basal neuronal death and activity-sensitive neuronal death, induced with glutamate receptor blockers, sodium channel blockers, or calcium channel blockers. Although elevations of [Ca(2+)](i) protect neurons from apoptosis, low-density microcultures and mass cultures exhibited only minor differences in resting [Ca(2+)](i) and Ca(2+) current density, suggesting that these variables are unlikely to explain differences in susceptibility. Astrocytes, rather than neurons, were implicated in the neuronal loss. Several candidate molecules implicated in other astrocyte-dependent neurotoxicity models were excluded, but heat inactivation experiments suggested that a heat-labile factor is critically involved. In sum, our results suggest the surprising result that astrocytes can be negative modulators of neuronal survival during development and when the immature nervous system is challenged with drugs that dampen electrical excitability.
Receptor-type protein-tyrosine phosphatase beta (RPTPbeta) and its spliced variant phosphacan are major components of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans in the CNS. In this study, expression and localization of RPTPbeta and phosphacan were examined in developing neurons by immunological analyses using 6B4, 3F8, and anti-PTP antibodies and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Light microscopic immunohistochemistry showed that 6B4 RPTPbeta/phosphacan immunoreactivity was observed around neurons in the cortical plate. Further ultrastructural observation showed that 6B4 RPTPbeta/phosphacan immunoreactivity was observed mainly at the membrane of migrating neurons and radial glia. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed that RPTPbeta immunoreactivity was observed in cultured cerebral, hippocampal, and cerebellar neurons in addition to type-1 and type-2 astrocytes. Western analysis further demonstrated that the shorter receptor form of RPTPbeta (sRPTPbeta) was detected from cell lysate of cortical and hippocampal neurons using 6B4 and anti-PTP antibodies, while sRPTPbeta of cerebellar neurons and type-1 astrocytes was recognized only by anti-PTP antibody. Phosphacan was detected from neuronal culture supernatants of cortical, hippocampal, and cerebellar neurons, but not from type-1 astrocytes using 6B4 and 3F8 antibodies. RT-PCR analysis demonstrated the prominent expression of sRPTPbeta and phosphacan mRNAs in cortical neurons, and that of sRPTPbeta mRNA in type-1 astrocytes. During culture development of cortical neurons, the immunoreactivity of 6B4 sRPTPbeta was observed entirely on the neuronal surface including somata, dendrites, axons, and growth cones at earlier stages of cortical neuronal culture such as stages 2 and 3, while, after longer culture, 6B4 sRPTPbeta immunoreactivity in stages 4 and 5 neurons was detected at dendrites and somata and disappeared from axons, and was not observed over axonal terminals and postsynaptic spines. These results demonstrate that neurons are able to express sRPTPbeta on their cellular surface and to secrete phosphacan, and neuronal expression of sRPTPbeta may modulate neuronal differentiation including neuritogenesis and synaptogenesis.
Development of the nervous system is a complex process, involving coordinated regulation of diverse cellular processes including proliferation, differentiation and synaptogenesis. Disturbances to brain development such as pre- and perinatal hypoxia have been linked to behavioural and late onset of neurological disorders. This study examines the effect of hypoxia on neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells. Hypoxia not only caused a rapid induction of neurite outgrowth, but also synergistically enhanced nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth up to 24 h. Transactivation of TrkA receptors was ruled out since the TrkA inhibitor K252a did not block hypoxia-induced neurite outgrowth. Adenosine deaminase prevented hypoxia-induced neurite outgrowth indicating that the effect is mediated by adenosine. Use of the specific adenosine A2A receptor agonist CGS21680 and antagonist 8-3(chlorostyryl)caffeine demonstrated that activation of this receptor is critical for hypoxia-induced neurite outgrowth. Hypoxia-induced neurite outgrowth was blocked by the adenylate cyclase inhibitor, MDL-12,330A, indicating a role for activation of this enzyme in the pathway. Hypoxia was further shown to cause a decrease in growth-associated protein (GAP)-43 levels and a lack of induction of betaIII tubulin, in contrast to NGF treatment which resulted in increased cellular levels of both of these proteins. These findings suggest that hypoxia induces neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells via a pathway distinct from that activated by NGF. Thus, exposure to hypoxia at critical stages of development may contribute to aberrant neurite outgrowth and could be a factor in the pathogenesis of certain delayed developmental neurological disorders.
Mossy fibre sprouting (MFS) is a phenomenon observed in the epileptic hippocampus. We have studied MFS, in 7, 14 and 21 day in vitro (DIV) organotypic slice cultures, or in slice cultures treated with pilocarpine (0.5 mM) or pilocarpine and atropine (0.1 mM or 0.5 mM) for 48-72 h at 5 DIV and tested at 21 DIV. Acute application of pilocarpine directly activated hilar neurons and elicited epileptic-like discharges in CA3 pyramids and mossy cells of 5-8 DIV cultures, without causing substantial cell death, as assessed by lactate dehydrogenase measurements. Timm staining revealed increases in MFS in chronic pilocarpine-treated cultures, which was prevented by prior application of atropine. Extracellular synaptic responses were recorded in the granule cell layer and elicited by antidromic mossy fibre stimulation. The GABA(A) antagonist 6-imino-3-(4-methoxyphenyl)-1(6H)-pyridazinebutanoic acid (1 microM) induced a greater increase in the coastline bursting index in pilocarpine-treated cultures than in 21 DIV controls. However, there was no significant increase in the frequency of spontaneous or miniature synaptic events recorded in granule cells from pilocarpine-treated cultures. Granule cells were filled with biocytin and morphometric analysis revealed that the length of axon collaterals in the granule and molecular layer was longer in pilocarpine-treated cultures than in 21 DIV controls. Dual recordings between granule cells and between granule and hilar neurons showed that pilocarpine-treated cultures had a larger proportion of monosynaptic and polysynaptic connections. The group II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist LY354740 (0.5 microM) suppressed excitatory but not inhibitory monosynaptic currents. LY354740 also inhibited antidromically evoked action currents in granule cells from pilocarpine- and to a lesser extent in pilocarpine and atropine-treated cultures, suggesting that group II mGluRs can reside along the axon and suppress action potential invasion. We provide direct evidence for the development of functional MFS and suggest a novel, axonal mechanism by which presynaptic group II mGluRs can inhibit selected synapses.
The main olfactory bulb (MOB) is the first relay station of the olfactory system: it receives afferents from sensory neurons and sends efferents to the primary olfactory cortex. The MOB also receives many centrifugal afferents from various regions. Transection of peripheral afferents to the MOB has been reported to induce cell death in granule cells. However, little is known about the effect of transection of these central connections of the MOB in adult rats. Here, we used a unilateral olfactory peduncle transection model in the adult rat to examine neuronal degeneration in the MOB. In the MOB ipsilateral to the surgery, the granule cell layer (GCL) was smaller, and the number of mitral cells was decreased compared with the contralateral MOB at 7 days after surgery. Many degenerating cells were present in both the mitral cell layer (MCL) and GCL in the ipsilateral MOB at 3 days after surgery, although there were no obvious changes in the gross morphology. We also found terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP-digoxigenin nick end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells in the MCL and GCL in the ipsilateral MOB at 3 days after surgery. The majority of the degenerating and TUNEL-positive cells were located in the deep, rather than the superficial, GCL. Immunohistochemistry for activated caspase-9 further supported the occurrence of apoptotic cell death in the mitral and deeply located granule cells. These results indicate that not only axotomized mitral cells, but also deeply located granule cells that were not directly injured, underwent apoptosis after transection of the central connections, and suggest that sensitivities to transection of the central connections differ among granule cells according to their depth in the GCL.
The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) glycoproteins, MHC1 and MHC2, play a key role in the presentation of antigen and the development of the immune response. In the current study we examined the regulation of the MHC2 in the mouse brain after facial axotomy. The normal facial motor nucleus showed very few slender and elongated MHC2+ cells. Transection of the facial nerve led to a gradual but strong upregulation in the number of MHC2+ cells, beginning at day 2 and reaching a maximum 14 days after axotomy, correlated with the induction of mRNA for tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha, interleukin (IL) 1beta and interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) and a peak in neuronal cell death. In almost all cases, MHC2 immunoreactivity was restricted to perivascular macrophages that colocalized with vascular basement membrane laminin and macrophage IBA1-immunoreactivity, with no immunoreactivity on phagocytic microglia, astrocytes or invading T-cells. Heterologous transplantation and systemic injection of endotoxin or IFNgamma did not affect this perivascular MHC2 immunoreactivity, and transgenic deletion of the IL1 receptor type I, or TNF receptor type 1, also had no effect. However, the deletion of IFNgamma receptor subunit 1 caused a significant increase, and that of TNF receptor type 2 a strong reduction in the number of MHC2+ macrophages, pointing to a counter-regulatory role of IFNgamma and TNFalpha in the immune surveillance of the injured nervous system.
17Beta-estradiol (E2) is a major neuroregulator, exerting both genomic and non-genomic actions. E2 regulation of Slack (sequence like a calcium-activated potassium channel) potassium channels has not been identified in the CNS. We demonstrate E2-induced activation of Slack channels, which display a unitary conductance of about 60 pS, are inhibited by intracellular calcium, and are abundantly expressed in the nervous system. In lipid bilayers derived from rat cortical neuronal membranes, E2 increases Slack open probability and appears to decrease channel inactivation. Additionally, E2 binds to the Slack channel and activates outward currents in human embryonic kidney-293 cells that express Slack channels but not classical estrogen receptors (i.e. ERalpha or ERbeta). Neither E2-induced activation nor the binding intensity of E2 to the Slack channel is blocked by tamoxifen, an ER antagonist/agonist. Thus, E2 activates a potassium channel, Slack, through a non-traditional membrane binding site, adding to known non-genomic mechanisms by which E2 exerts pharmacological and toxicological effects in the CNS.

Motoneuron damage occurs in spinal cord injury and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Current advances offer hope that human embryonic stem cells [Science 282 (1998) 1145] or neural stem cells (NSC) [Exp Neurol 161 (2000) 67; Exp Neurol 158 (1999) 265; J Neurosci Methods 85 (1998) 141; Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97 (2000) 14720; Exp Neurol 156 (1999) 156 ] may be donors to replace lost motoneurons. Previously, we developed a priming procedure that produced cholinergic cells that resemble motoneurons from human NSCs grafted into adult rat spinal cord [Nat Neurosci 5 (2002a) 1271]. However, effective replacement therapy will ultimately rely on successful connection of new motoneurons with their muscle targets. In this study, we examined the potential of human fetal NSC transplantation to replace lost motoneurons in an animal model of chronic motoneuron deficiency (newborn sciatic axotomy) [J Comp Neurol 224 (1984) 252; J Neurobiol 23 (1992) 1231]. We found, for the first time, that human neural stem cell-derived motoneurons send axons that pass through ventral root and sciatic nerve to form neuromuscular junctions with their peripheral muscle targets. Furthermore, this new cholinergic innervation correlates with partial improvement of motor function.
The concept of neuroprotective immunity identifies a new role of autoimmune cells in the CNS pathology. Specifically, immune cells infiltrating the CNS during an injury may help in a regeneration process and prevent the secondary degeneration of neurons. The objectives of our study were to determine the role of autoimmune and peripheral immune enhancement in neurodegeneration process, and to compare the results between young adult and aging animals. C57Bl mice were immunized with either myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) 35-55 combined with complete Freund adjuvant (CFA), or CFA alone. Following 6 days, the animals were injected with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine to produce a damage of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. Although immunization with MOG 35-55 combined with CFA resulted in autoimmune encephalomyelosis, it substantially enhanced neuronal survival after the toxic insult. The immunization with CFA alone was also effective in preventing neuronal cell death, but the magnitude of the neuroprotective effect was smaller. Interestingly, the neuroprotective effect of MOG 35-55 and CFA was more pronounced in aging (i.e. 10-month-old) compared with young (i.e. 2-month-old) mice. Our results indicate that an increased immune activation may be beneficial for neurodegenerative processes following the CNS injury, but the mechanisms of such immune neuroprotection and of age differences need further investigation.
Our earlier studies demonstrated that representative microbial substances--lipopolysaccharide, peptidoglycan, and poly-inosine: poly-cytosine (poly(I):(C))--increased the spontaneous discharge rates and sensory-evoked responses of isolated locus coeruleus (LC) neurons in a dose- and time-related manner after i.p. injection into rats. We then turned our attention to the mechanism by which microbial substances administered into the peritoneal cavity affect the LC neurons. The involvement of the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerves was examined in this regard since several brain responses to peripherally administered lipopolysaccharide have been found to depend upon the integrity of these nerves. The experiments reported here show that lipopolysaccharide, peptidoglycan, and poly(I):(C) all failed to excite LC neurons after i.p. injection into rats that had previously been subjected to complete transection of the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerves. Furthermore, selective transection of the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerve trunks indicated that the dorsal trunk, and not the ventral trunk, was necessary to excite LC neurons in response to i.p. lipopolysaccharide. The inability of LC neurons to respond to i.p. lipopolysaccharide in vagotomized rats is unlikely to be attributed to a desensitization of the neurons to lipopolysaccharide since i.c.v. injection of lipopolysaccharide excited LC neurons in vagotomized rats as it did in vagus-intact rats. These findings suggest that a variety of microbial substances excited LC neurons after administration into the peritoneal cavity in a manner involving the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerves.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is an important mitogen and neurotrophic factor that binds and signals through the high-affinity receptor, fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1). However, only a limited amount of information is available concerning the molecular forms and anatomical distribution of fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) in the normal human brain. We found multiple bFGF and FGFR1 mRNA transcripts which vary in expression pattern across human brain regions. Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, we localized bFGF and FGFR1 mRNA and protein to cells in the normal adult human hippocampus and caudal entorhinal cortex (ERC). The majority of pyramidal neurons contained FGFR1 mRNA and protein in the mesial temporal lobe, with neurons in the CA2/CA3 region demonstrating the highest levels of FGFR1 mRNA. In contrast to FGFR1, bFGF mRNA expression was detected at very low levels in a small fraction of the neurons in the human hippocampus and caudal ERC. While bFGF mRNA may be expressed at low levels in neurons, bFGF-immunopositive cells with astrocytic features were detected throughout the mesial temporal lobe in rats, monkeys and humans. bFGF immunoreactive processes are found traversing the dentate gyrus, and bFGF immunoreactive cells are found in the neurogenic subgranular zone in all three mammalian species studied. The anatomical distribution of these two FGF family members suggests that bFGF is endogenously positioned to be involved in ongoing neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus, and that FGF trophic signaling to differentiated neurons could involve the release of astrocytic bFGF acting on neuronal FGFR1 in the normal adult human hippocampus.
Lamina I of the spinal cord contains many projection neurons: the majority of these are activated by noxious stimulation, although some respond to other stimuli, such as innocuous cooling. In the rat, approximately 80% of lamina I projection neurons express the neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor, on which substance P acts. Lamina I neurons can be classified into three main morphological classes: pyramidal, fusiform and multipolar cells. It has been reported that in the cat, pyramidal cells respond to innocuous cooling, and whilst both fusiform and multipolar cells are activated by noxious mechanical and heat stimuli, only cells in the latter group respond to noxious cold [Nat Neurosci 1 (1998) 218]. However, we have previously shown that NK1 receptor-immunoreactive projection neurons belonging to each morphological class are equally likely to up-regulate the transcription factor Fos after noxious chemical stimulation, and that the density of innervation by substance P-containing (nociceptive) afferents is similar for cells of each type [J Neurosci 22 (2002) 4103]. This suggests that the morphological-physiological correlation that has been reported in the cat may not apply in the rat. We have tested this further by examining Fos expression in lamina I spinoparabrachial neurons in the rat after application of noxious heat or noxious cold stimuli under general anesthesia. Following noxious heat, 57-69% of NK1 receptor-immunoreactive spinoparabrachial neurons expressed Fos, and the proportion did not differ significantly between morphological groups. However, after noxious cold stimulation Fos was present in 63% of multipolar neurons, but only 19-26% of fusiform or pyramidal cells. These results suggest that although most NK1 receptor-expressing spinoparabrachial neurons are activated by noxious stimuli, responsiveness to noxious cold is significantly more common in those of the multipolar type. There therefore appears to be a correlation between morphology and function for lamina I projection neurons in the rat.
Converging evidence from different functional imaging studies indicates that the intensity of activation of different nociceptive areas (including the operculoinsular cortex, the primary somatosensory cortex, and the anterior cingulate gyrus) correlates with perceived pain intensity in the human brain. Brief radiant laser pulses excite selectively Adelta and C nociceptors in the superficial skin layers, provide a purely nociceptive input, and evoke brain potentials (laser-evoked potentials, LEPs) that are commonly used to assess nociceptive pathways in physiological and clinical studies. Adelta-related LEPs are constituted of different components. The earliest is a lateralised, small negative component (N1) which could be generated by the operculoinsular cortex. The major negative component (N2) seems to be mainly the result of activation in the bilateral operculoinsular cortices and contralateral primary somatosensory cortex, and it is followed by a positive component (P2) probably generated by the cingulate gyrus. Currently, early and late LEP components are considered to be differentially sensitive to the subjective variability of pain perception: the late N2-P2 complex strongly correlates with perceived pain, whereas the early N1 component is thought to be a pre-perceptual sensory response. To obtain physiological information on the roles of the pain-related brain areas in healthy humans, we examined the relationship between perceived pain intensity and latency and amplitude of the early (N1) and late (N2, P2) LEP components. We found that the amplitude of the N1 component correlated significantly with the subjective pain ratings, both within and between subjects. Furthermore, we showed that the N2 and P2 late LEP components are differentially sensitive to the perceived sensation, and demonstrated that the N2 component mainly explains the previously described correlation between perceived pain and the amplitude of the N2-P2 vertex complex of LEPs. Our findings confirm the notion that pain intensity processing is distributed over several brain areas, and suggest that the intensity coding of a noxious stimulus occurs already at the earliest stage of perception processing, in the operculoinsular region and, possibly, the primary somatosensory area.
Nerve injury resulting in chronic pain is associated with novel excitatory effects of norepinephrine on injured peripheral nerve terminals and their cell bodies, due to actions on alpha2-adrenoceptors. Paradoxically, alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists administered near peripheral terminals or their cell bodies results in analgesia, not pain. This study tested, using intracellular Ca2+ response to stimulation, the effects of alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists on injured sensory neurons and classified their neuronal phenotype. Dorsal root ganglion cells from normal and spinal nerve-ligated rats were dissociated and activated twice with electrical field stimulation, while measuring Fura-2 fluorescence. Cells were perfused between stimulations with vehicle or alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists alone or with antagonists. Cells were considered inhibited if the ratio of their peak Ca2+ response to the second stimulus divided by the first was less than the 2.5th percentile for vehicle controls. alpha2-, But not alpha1-adrenoceptor agonists inhibited the Ca2+ response in a concentration related fashion, and this inhibition was blocked by alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonists. Clonidine inhibited a similar percentage of cells in the normal and spinal nerve-ligated group. In both groups, the large majority of clonidine-inhibited cells stained for isolectin B4. Spinal nerve ligation resulted in a 4-10-fold increase in the percentage of clonidine inhibited cells which immunostained for calcitonin gene-related peptide. These data are consistent with the known inhibition of Ca2+ currents by alpha2-adrenoceptors and suggest that, at the level of intracellular Ca2+, the key determinant of neurotransmitter release, alpha2-adrenoceptors are inhibitory after nerve injury, not excitatory. There is a shift in phenotype of sensory neurons which are inhibited by clonidine after nerve injury, which may explain clonidine's increased potency in the treatment of neuropathic compared with acute pain.
Ependymal cells of the adult mammalian spinal cord exhibit stem/progenitor cell properties following injury. In the present study, we utilized intraventricular injection of 1,1'-dioctadecyl-6,6'-di(4-sulfophenyl)-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine (DiI) to label the ependyma lining the central canal to allow tracking of the migration of endogenous ependymal cells and their progeny after spinal cord injury (SCI). We developed a minimal injury model that preserved the integrity of the central canal and did not interfere with ependymal cell labeling. Three days following SCI, there was an 8.6-fold increase in the proliferative labeling index of the ependymal cells at the level of the needle track based on bromodeoxyuridine labeling, compared with 1 day post-injury. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) positive cells were not detected in the ependyma or surrounding gray matter, indicating that ependymal cells do not undergo apoptosis in response to minimal injury. Nestin was rapidly induced in the ependyma by 1 day and expression peaked by 7 days post-injury. We quantitated the number and distance of ependymal cell migration following minimal injury. The number of ependymal cells migrating from the region of the central canal increased by 3 days following minimal injury and DiI-labeled glial fibrillary acidic protein expressing cells were detected 14 days post-SCI, most of which migrated within 70 microm of the region of the central canal. These results show that a minimal SCI adjacent to the ependyma is sufficient to induce an endogenous ependymal cell response where ependymal stem/progenitor cells proliferate and migrate from the region of the central canal, differentiating primarily into astrocytes.
Small (SK) and intermediate (IK) conductance calcium-activated potassium channels are candidate ion channels for the regulation of excitability in nociceptive neurones. We have used unique peptide-directed antisera to describe the immunocytochemical distribution of the known isoforms of these ion channels in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cord of the rat. These investigations sought to characterize further the phenotype and hence possible functions of nociceptive neurone subpopulations in the rat. In addition, using Western blotting, we sought to determine the level of protein expression of SK and IK channels in sensory nervous tissues following induction of inflammation (Freund's Complete Adjuvant (FCA) arthritis model) or nerve injury (chronic constriction injury model). We show that SK1, SK2, SK3 and IK1 are all expressed in DRG and spinal cord. Morphometric analysis revealed that SK1, SK2 and IK1 were preferentially localized to neurones having cell bodies &lt;1000 microm2 (putative nociceptors) in DRG. Dual labeling immunocytochemistry showed that these ion channels co-localize with both CGRP and IB4, known markers of nociceptor sub-populations. SK2 was localized almost exclusively in the superficial laminae of the spinal cord dorsal horn, the region in which many sensory afferents terminate; the distribution of SK1 and IK1 was more widespread in spinal cord, although some preferential labeling within the dorsal horn was observed in the case of IK1. Here we show evidence for a distinctive pattern of expression for certain members of the calcium-activated potassium channel family in the rat DRG.
It has been well documented that the activation of c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase (JNK) pathway and caspase-3 signal are involved in the delayed neuronal cell death in cerebral ischemia. In this study, we first detected the activation pattern of JNK signaling including mixed lineage kinase (MLK)3, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MKK)7 and JNK3 in hippocampal CA1 and CA3/DG regions at various time points after 15 min of ischemia. These results indicated that cerebral ischemia induced the continuous activation of MLK3/MKK7/JNK3 cascade, which all had two active waves only in the CA1 region. We also detected the phosphorylation of JNK substrates c-Jun and Bcl-2, and the activation of a key protease of caspase-3 in CA1 region, which only had one active peak, respectively. Because K252a has recently been shown to be a potent inhibitor of MLK3 activity both in vivo and in vitro, we further examined the possible effects and mechanism of this interesting drug in cerebral ischemia. In our present paper, we found that administration of K252a 20 min prior to ischemia inhibited MLK3/MKK7/JNK3 signaling, Bcl-2 phosphorylation, the activation of c-Jun and caspase-3, but had no significant effects on these protein expressions. Additionally, pretreatment of K252a significantly increased the number of the surviving CA1 pyramidal cells at 5 days of reperfusion. Our results suggest that K252a play a neuroprotective role in ischemic injury via inhibition of the JNK pathway, involving the death effector of caspase-3. Thus, JNK signaling may eventually emerge as a prime target for novel therapeutic approaches to treatment of ischemic stroke, and K252a may serve as a potential and important neuroprotectant in therapeutic aspect in ischemic stroke.
Large aspiny (LA) neurons in the neostriatum are resistant to cerebral ischemia whereas spiny neurons are highly vulnerable to the same insult. Excitotoxicity has been implicated as the major cause of neuronal damage after ischemia. Voltage-dependent potassium currents play important roles in controlling neuronal excitability and therefore influence the ischemic outcome. To reveal the ionic mechanisms underlying the ischemia-resistance, the delayed rectifier potassium currents (Ik) in LA neurons were studied before and at different intervals after transient forebrain ischemia using brain slices and acute dissociation preparations. The current density of Ik increased significantly 24 h after ischemia and returned to control levels 72 h following reperfusion. Among currents contributing to Ik, the margatoxin-sensitive currents increased 24 h after ischemia while the KCNQ/M current remained unchanged after ischemia. Activation of protein kinase A (PKA) down-regulated Ik in both control and ischemic LA neurons, whereas inhibition of PKA only up-regulated Ik and margatoxin-sensitive currents 72 h after ischemia, indicating an active PKA regulation on Ik at this time. Protein tyrosine kinases had a tonic inhibition on Ik to a similar extent before and after ischemia. Compared with that of control neurons, the spike width was significantly shortened 24 h after ischemia due to facilitated repolarization, which could be reversed by blocking margatoxin-sensitive currents. The increase of Ik in LA neurons might be one of the protective mechanisms against ischemic insult.
Cytochemical subpopulations of geniculate ganglion (GG) cells were identified in guinea-pigs using immunohistochemistry and selective gentamicin accumulation. Two subpopulations of GG cells were evident based upon their location and immunoreactivity for peptide 19 (PEP 19), for plasma membrane Ca2+-ATPase (PMCA-ATPase), and for neurofilament proteins. Cells within the posterior part of GG were positive for PEP 19 and PMCA-ATPase, but not for 68 kD or 160 kD neurofilament proteins. Cells within the anterior part showed complementary staining properties. Cells within these populations showed differences in accumulation of gentamicin, depending upon the administration route. Cells within the posterior part showed avid accumulation of gentamicin when animals received the drug systemically. When the drug was administered directly into the middle ear, cells within the anterior part showed avid gentamicin accumulation. Immunostaining for gentamicin in both cell populations was much more extreme and remained so for longer post-administration times when compared with spiral ganglion and vestibular ganglion cells. The results suggest that cells in the anterior part of GG have little exposure to gentamicin in the serum and that perhaps they innervate the middle ear mucosa or they absorb the drug through their axons within the middle ear. In contrast, cells in the posterior part of GG have greater access to systemically administered gentamicin either directly or via their axon terminals.
Triple A syndrome is characterised by achalasia, alacrima, adrenocorticotropin-resistant adrenal insufficiency and a variable and progressive neurological phenotype. It is caused by mutations in a gene that is normally referred to as the triple A syndrome gene (AAAS) and which has recently been shown to encode a nuclear pore protein named ALADIN (alacrima, achalasia, adrenal insufficiency neurologic disorder). In this study we performed in situ hybridisation with radioactive oligonucleotide probes in the adult and developing rat and present the first detailed map of AAAS mRNA expression. Consistent with a role for AAAS in adrenal function, we detected high levels of its mRNA in the adrenal cortex. On the other hand hepatocytes, enteric smooth muscle and fibroblasts had relatively little or no detectable AAAS mRNA. In both the peripheral and central nervous systems, AAAS mRNA was abundantly expressed. Neurons in sensory and sympathetic ganglia expressed high levels. CNS expression was highest in neurons of the cerebral cortex, cerebellum, hippocampus, motor-associated nuclei of the brainstem including cranial nerve nuclei, and ventral horn of the spinal cord. Although neuronal expression of AAAS mRNA was striking, non-neuronal cells including those of the circumventricular organs and fibrous astrocytes also expressed AAAS mRNA. Within the developing embryo, the highest levels of expression were found in neural tissues. These findings indicate a widespread but not ubiquitous or uniform expression of AAAS mRNA in the rat. Robust expression in neural systems associated with cognitive, motor and sensory functions is consistent with the myriad of symptoms experienced by patients with triple A syndrome.
The formation of postsynaptic clusters of various ligand-gated ion channels is regulated by receptor activity. Here we describe the developmental- and activity-dependent modification of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor clustering in spinal cord neurons in vitro detected by immunofluorescence analysis using subunit and splice variant specific antibodies. NMDA receptors form synaptic and extrasynaptic clusters with sequential changes in subunit composition during in vitro development. During the first week of in vitro culture, a NR1 splice variant containing the C2-carboxy terminus and lacking the N1-cassette and the NR2B subunit are the prevailing components of receptor clusters at synaptic and extrasynaptic sites. After 3 weeks in culture (days in vitro [DIV] 22), the numbers of postsynaptic receptor clusters with N1-containing NR1 splice variants and NR2A subunits are upregulated. At DIV22, C2-specific clusters are abundant and are predominantly localized at postsynaptic sites, whereas the total number of C2'-clusters in dendrites is much lower and these clusters are localized mostly extrasynaptically. However, upon chronic inhibition of NMDA receptor activity in DIV8 and DIV22 cultures with MK801, the number of postsynaptic NR1-C2' subunit clusters is strongly upregulated. In contrast, numbers of NR1-C2 clusters are only modestly increased in DIV8 and not changed in DIV22 cultures upon MK801 treatment, suggesting a specific role of NR1 carboxy-terminal sequences in the activity-dependent synaptic targeting of NMDA receptor clusters of spinal cord neurons.
After experimental traumatic brain injury (TBI), widespread neuronal loss is progressive and continues in selectively vulnerable brain regions, such as the hippocampus, for months to years after the initial insult. To clarify the molecular mechanisms underlying secondary or delayed cell death in hippocampal neurons after TBI, we compared long-term changes in gene expression in the CA1, CA3 and dentate gyrus (DG) subfields of the rat hippocampus at 24 h and 3, 6, and 12 months after TBI with changes in gene expression in sham-operated rats. We used laser capture microdissection to collect several hundred hippocampal neurons from the CA1, CA3, and DG subfields and linearly amplified the nanogram samples of neuronal RNA with T7 RNA polymerase. Subsequent quantitative analysis of gene expression using ribonuclease protection assay revealed that mRNA expression of the anti-apoptotic gene, Bcl-2, and the chaperone heat shock protein 70 was significantly downregulated at 3, 6 (Bcl-2 only), and 12 months after TBI. Interestingly, the expression of the pro-apoptotic genes caspase-3 and caspase-9 was also significantly decreased at 3, 6 (caspase-9 only), and 12 months after TBI, suggesting that long-term neuronal loss after TBI is not mediated by increased expression of pro-apoptotic genes. The expression of two aging-related genes, p21 and integrin beta3 (ITbeta3), transiently increased 24 h after TBI, returned to baseline levels at 3 months and significantly decreased below sham levels at 12 months (ITbeta3 only). Expression of the gene for the antioxidant glutathione peroxidase-1 also significantly increased 6 months after TBI. These results suggest that decreased levels of neuroprotective genes may contribute to long-term neurodegeneration in animals and human patients after TBI. Conversely, long-term increases in antioxidant gene expression after TBI may be an endogenous neuroprotective response that compensates for the decrease in expression of other neuroprotective genes.
General anesthetics modulate autonomic nervous system function including thermoregulatory control, which resides in the preoptic area of the anterior hypothalamus. However, the mechanism by which anesthetics modulate hypothalamic function remains unknown. We hypothesized that isoflurane increases norepinephrine release in the preoptic area and in the posterior hypothalamus causing hypothermia during anesthesia. To test this hypothesis, we performed a series of in vivo and in vitro studies in rats. In vivo studies: 1) Norepinephrine release was measured by microdialysis in the preoptic area or the posterior hypothalamus (n=9 each) before, during (30 min), and after (50 min) rats were anesthetized with 2% isoflurane. 2) In five rats, blood gases and arterial pressure were measured. 3) Body temperature changes (n=6 each) were measured after prazosin (0, 0.05, 0.5 microg), norepinephrine (0, 0.1, 1.0 microg), or 0.5 microg prazosin with 1.0 microg norepinephrine injection into the preoptic area. In vitro study: Norepinephrine release was measured from anterior or posterior hypothalamic slices (n=10 each) incubated with 0, 1, 2, or 4% isoflurane in Ca2+-containing buffer or with 4% isoflurane (n=10) in Ca2+-free buffer. Data were analyzed with repeated measures or factorial ANOVA and Student-Newman-Keuls tests. P&lt;0.05 was significant. During anesthesia, norepinephrine release in the preoptic area was increased approximately 270%, whereas the release in the posterior hypothalamus remained unchanged. During emergence, posterior hypothalamic norepinephrine release increased by approximately 250% (P&lt;0.05). Rectal temperature changes correlated with norepinephrine release from the preoptic area. Norepinephrine in the preoptic area enhanced isoflurane-induced hypothermia, while prazosin reversed it. Norepinephrine release from anterior hypothalamic slices increased at all isoflurane concentrations, but only at the highest concentration in posterior hypothalamic slices. Under Ca2+-free conditions, 4% isoflurane increased norepinephrine from both regions. These results suggest that augmentation of norepinephrine release in the preoptic area is responsible for hypothermia during general anesthesia.
Cocaine and methamphetamine (METH) induce preprodynorphin (PPD) mRNA expression in the striatum. Cocaine induces PPD expression in both the patch and matrix compartments of the rostral striatum, whereas METH induces PPD expression in the patch compartment of the rostral striatum. In middle striatum, both stimulants increase PPD expression in the patch and matrix compartments. METH and cocaine treatment also increase extracellular serotonin (5-HT). Several studies have shown that 5-HT receptors are present on striatonigral neurons that express PPD mRNA, and that 5-HT is a positive regulator of striatal neuropeptide expression. The current study examined whether 5-HT plays a role in the patch/matrix expression of PPD mRNA induced by cocaine and METH in striatum. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with p-chloroamphetamine (PCA; 8 mg/kg, i.p), a serotonin neurotoxin, 1 week prior to cocaine (30 mg/kg, i.p) and METH (15 mg/kg, s.c.) treatment. The 80% loss of 5-HT induced by PCA-pretreatment blocked cocaine-induced PPD expression in the rostral matrix compartment. Cocaine- and METH-induced PPD expression in the rostral patch compartment was unaffected by PCA-pretreatment. PCA-pretreatment also decreased both cocaine- and METH-induced PPD expression in the matrix, but not patch of middle striatum. PCA-induced 5-HT depletion did not affect stimulant-induced increases in PPT mRNA expression in the striatum. These data suggest that 5-HT plays a role in stimulant-induced PPD expression in the matrix compartment of rostral and middle striatum. Thus, 5-HT innervation may play a critical role in basal ganglia function.
Extracellular glutamate levels increase as a consequence of perinatal hypoxia/ischemia, causing the death of neurons and oligodendrocytes. Precursors in the subventricular zone (SVZ) also die following perinatal hypoxia/ischemia; therefore we hypothesized that glutamate would stimulate the death of neural precursors. Here we demonstrate using calcium imaging that SVZ derived neural stem/progenitor cells respond to both ionotropic and metabotropic excitatory amino acids. Therefore, we tested the effects of high levels of glutamate receptor agonists on the proliferation, survival, and differentiation of SVZ derived neural stem/progenitor cells in vitro. We show that high levels of glutamate, up to 1 mM, are not toxic to neural precursor cultures. In fact, stimulation of either the kainate receptor or group 2 metabotropic glutamate receptors (group 2 mGluR) reduces basal levels of apoptosis and increases neural precursor proliferation. Furthermore, group 2 mGluR activation expands the number of multipotent progenitor cells present in these cultures while maintaining equivalent mature cell production. We conclude that the glutamate released following perinatal hypoxia/ischemia may act to acutely promote the proliferation of multipotent precursors in the subventricular zone.
Chronic stress and spatial training have been proposed to affect hippocampal structure and function in opposite ways. Previous morphological studies that addressed structural changes after chronic restraint stress and spatial training were based on two-dimensional morphometry which does not allow a complete morphometric characterisation of synaptic features. Here, for the first time in such studies, we examined these issues by using three-dimensional (3-D) reconstructions of electron microscope images taken from thorny excrescences of hippocampal CA3 pyramidal cells. Ultrastructural alterations in postsynaptic densities (PSDs) of thorny excrescences receiving input from mossy fibre boutons were also determined, as were changes in numbers of multivesicular bodies (endosome-like structures) within thorny excrescences and dendrites. Quantitative 3-D data demonstrated retraction of thorny excrescences after chronic restraint stress which was reversed after water maze training, whilst water maze training alone increased thorny excrescence volume and number of thorns per thorny excrescence. PSD surface area was unaffected by restraint stress but water maze training increased both number and area of PSDs per thorny excrescence. In restrained rats that were water maze trained PSD volume and surface area increased significantly. The proportion of perforated PSDs almost doubled after water maze training and restraint stress. Numbers of endosome-like structures in thorny excrescences decreased after restraint stress and increased after water maze training. These findings demonstrate that circuits involving contacts between mossy fibre terminals and CA3 pyramidal cells at stratum lucidum level are affected conversely by water maze training and chronic stress, confirming the remarkable plasticity of CA3 dendrites. They provide a clear illustration of the structural modifications that occur after life experiences noted for their different impact on hippocampal function.
Noradrenaline plays distinct roles in the modulation and consolidation of memory for one-trial, discriminated, avoidance learning in the chick. We have previously shown that activation of beta2-, beta3- and alpha1-adrenoceptors (ARs) by injection into the multimodal forebrain association region (intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale [IMHV] or intermediate medial mesopallium [IMM]) is involved in the consolidation of memory 30 min after training and that activation of alpha2-ARs in the caudate putamen plays a role in the reinforcement of memory leading to consolidation in the IMM (IMHV). In this paper we provide evidence that noradrenaline acts at beta1-ARs in the basal ganglia (lobus parolfactorius or medial striatum) in short-term memory processing immediately post-training and demonstrate inhibition of memory by selective AR antagonists at particular times in the sequential memory processing sequence after training. These results support separate roles for beta2- and beta3-ARs in memory consolidation. Our studies suggest that, as a consequence of the learning experience, noradrenaline acts in different brain regions and at different times in memory processing, to enhance memory through distinct populations of ARs.
We analyzed the expression of the immediate early genes c-fos and Zenk (egr-1) in the brain of male quail that were gonadally intact (I) or castrated and treated (CX+T) or not (CX) with testosterone and had been exposed for 60 min either to a sexually mature female (F), or to an empty arena (EA) or were left in their home cage (HC). Alternate sections in the brains collected 90 min after the start of behavioral interactions were stained by immunocytochemistry for the proteins FOS or ZENK alone or in association with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a marker of catecholaminergic neurons. C-fos and Zenk expression was statistically increased in six brain areas of sexually active birds (I+F, CX+T+F) compared with controls (CX+F, CX+T+EA, CX+T+HC), i.e. the preoptic area, bed nucleus striae terminalis, arcopallium, nucleus intercollicularis, periaqueductal gray and the ventral tegmental area. Interestingly, c-fos and Zenk expression was high in the nucleus intercollicularis, a midbrain vocal control nucleus, of I+F and CX+T+F birds that displayed copulatory behavior but emitted few crows but not in the nucleus intercollicularis of CX+T+EA birds that crowed frequently. Increases in c-fos expression were observed in TH-immunoreactive cells in the periaqueductal gray and ventral tegmental area, but not in the substantia nigra, of I+F and CX+T+F birds indicating the activation of dopaminergic neurons during sexual behavior. Together, these data confirm the implication of the steroid-sensitive preoptic area and bed nucleus striae terminalis in the control of copulation and support the notion that dopamine is involved in its control.
While the use of multi-channel electrodes (stereotrodes and tetrodes) has allowed for the simultaneous recording and identification of many neurons, quantitative measures of the quality of neurons in such recordings are lacking. In multi-channel recordings, each spike waveform is discriminated in a high-dimensional space, making traditional measures of unit quality inapplicable. We describe two measures of unit isolation quality, Lratio and Isolation Distance, and evaluate their performance using simulations and tetrode recordings. Both measures quantified how well separated the spikes of one cluster (putative neuron) were from other spikes recorded simultaneously on the same multi-channel electrode. In simulations and tetrode recordings, both Lratio and Isolation Distance discriminated well- and poorly-separated clusters. In data sets from the rodent hippocampus in which neurons were simultaneously recorded intracellularly and extracellularly, values of Isolation Distance and Lratio were related to the correct identification of spikes.
Presence of long-range temporal correlations in neuronal oscillations is thought to be beneficial for a reliable transfer of information in neuronal networks. In the present study long-range temporal correlations in electroencephalographic (EEG) neuronal oscillations were characterized with respect to their topography, frequency-band specificity (alpha and beta oscillations), gender and age. EEG was recorded in 91 normal subjects (age 20-65 years) in a resting condition. The amplitude of ongoing alpha and beta oscillations was extracted with band-pass filtering and Hilbert transform, and long-range temporal correlations were analyzed with detrended fluctuation analysis. The topography of long-range temporal correlations was comparable for alpha and beta oscillations, showing largest scaling exponents in the occipital and parietal areas. This topography was partially similar to that of the power distribution and a weak positive correlation was observed between long-range temporal correlations and power of neuronal oscillations. Long-range temporal correlations were stronger in alpha than beta oscillations, but only in a few electrode locations in the left hemisphere. In both frequency bands long-range temporal correlations were stronger in males than in females and were largely unaffected by the age of the subjects. It is hypothesized that the idling state of the occipital areas in the closed-eyes condition may explain both large power values and pronounced long-range temporal correlations in this region.
The basal forebrain cholinergic system is a critical component of the neurobiological substrates underlying attentional function. Orexin neurons are important for arousal and maintenance of wakefulness and are found in the area of the hypothalamus previously shown to project to the basal forebrain. We used dual-probe in vivo microdialysis in rats to test the hypothesis that orexin A (OxA) increases cortical acetylcholine (ACh) release. Intrabasalis administration of OxA (0, 0.1, 10.0 microM via reverse dialysis) dose-dependently increased ACh release within the prefrontal cortex (PFC). In a separate group of animals, local (intra-PFC) administration of OxA via reverse dialysis was found to have no significant effect on ACh release. In order to obtain anatomical corroboration of the basal forebrain as a site of orexin modulation of corticopetal cholinergic activity, we used immunohistochemistry to examine the relationship between orexin fibers and cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain. We observed widespread distribution of orexin-immunoreactive fibers in cholinergic regions of the basal forebrain, particularly in more rostral areas where frequent instances of apparent appositional contact were observed between orexin fibers and choline acetyltransferase-positive cell bodies. Collectively, these data suggest that orexin projections to the basal forebrain form an important link between hypothalamic arousal and forebrain attentional systems.
The aim of the present study is to explore the potential hyper-excitability of hippocampal CA3 neurons in rats after prolonged post-ischemic survival. We conducted 15-min four-vessel-occlusion ischemic episodes in rats, allowed these animals to survive for approximately 8 months and then examined the basic morphological features and population synaptic activities of CA3 neurons. In fixed tissue sections obtained from dorsal hippocampi of post-ischemic rats, we observed a complete loss of the CA1 neurons together with a shrunken CA1 sector. Extracellular recordings in slices revealed that the overall synaptic activities of dorsal hippocampal CA3 neurons were decreased in post-ischemic rats compared with sham-operated controls. Both sham control and post-ischemic ventral hippocampal neurons were capable of exhibiting intermittent spontaneous field potentials in slices. These spontaneous field potentials spread from the CA3 to the CA1 area and their generation relied on the activity of glutamate alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4 isoxazole proprionic acid (AMPA) receptors. The propensity for displaying these spontaneous field potentials appeared to be greater in post-ischemic slices than sham control slices. Our data suggest that the hyper-excitability of the post-ischemic hippocampus, if it occurs, may preferentially take place in the ventral CA3 circuitry.
One of several tenable hypotheses that can be proposed to explain the complex dynamics of spatially selective hippocampal neural activity postulates that the region of space over which a given cell receives its external input is actually much smaller than the classical 'place field.' According to this notion, the later portions of the field reflect some form of network hysteresis resulting from 'reverberatory' activity within reentrant, synaptically coupled cell assemblies within the hippocampus. This hypothesis predicts that transient, global inhibition, induced after the onset of firing, might truncate the remainder of the place field. To test this hypothesis, principal afferents to the hippocampus were stimulated bilaterally in rats running on a circular track, evoking widespread inhibition throughout the hippocampus, and abolishing all spike activity from simultaneously recorded populations of CA1 pyramidal cells for periods of 150-300 ms. Stimulation at any point within the place field of a given cell suppressed firing only for such brief intervals, followed by an immediate resumption for the remainder of the field. These results suggest that without additional cellular and/or synaptic mechanisms, reverberatory activity alone within the hippocampus does not account for the shape and spatial extent of place fields.
The substantia nigra has been widely regarded as a structure involved in visuomotor co-ordination, but little is known about the sensory background of its function. Here we give a detailed description of the visual receptive field properties of excitatory substantia nigra neurons. The visual responses of 59 excitatory neurons were recorded in both the substantia nigra pars reticularis and the pars compacta of halothane-anesthetized, immobilized, artificially respirated cats. The substantia nigra neurons were not responsive or exhibited very low sensitivity to stationary visual stimulation. The units responded optimally to small stimuli moving at intermediate or high velocities in their extremely large receptive field. We observed no signs of retinotopical organization within the substantia nigra. A majority of the units exhibited narrow direction tuning and high direction selectivity, while a smaller proportion of them were broadly tuned and not direction-sensitive. Our results suggest that the visual properties of the excitatory substantia nigra units are quite similar to those of the superior colliculus and other extrastriatal structures that receive tectal afferents. This supports the notion that the substantia nigra processes dynamic visual information and that its excitatory visual neurons are modulated by the extrageniculate tectal visual system of the mammalian brain.
We studied thalamic projections to the visual cortex in flying foxes, animals that share neural features believed to resemble those present in the brains of early primates. Neurones labeled by injections of fluorescent tracers in striate and extrastriate cortices were charted relative to the architectural boundaries of thalamic nuclei. Three main findings are reported: First, there are parallel lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) projections to striate and extrastriate cortices. Second, the pulvinar complex is expansive, and contains multiple subdivisions. Third, across the visual thalamus, the location of cells labeled after visual cortex injections changes systematically, with caudal visual areas receiving their strongest projections from the most lateral thalamic nuclei, and rostral areas receiving strong projections from medial nuclei. We identified three architectural layers in the LGN, and three subdivisions of the pulvinar complex. The outer LGN layer contained the largest cells, and had strong projections to the areas V1, V2 and V3. Neurones in the intermediate LGN layer were intermediate in size, and projected to V1 and, less densely, to V2. The layer nearest to the origin of the optic radiation contained the smallest cells, and projected not only to V1, V2 and V3, but also, weakly, to the occipitotemporal area (OT, which is similar to primate middle temporal area) and the occipitoparietal area (OP, a &quot;third tier&quot; area located near the dorsal midline). V1, V2 and V3 received strong projections from the lateral and intermediate subdivisions of the pulvinar complex, while OP and OT received their main thalamic input from the intermediate and medial subdivisions of the pulvinar complex. These results suggest parallels with the carnivore visual system, and indicate that the restriction of the projections of the large- and intermediate-sized LGN layers to V1, observed in present-day primates, evolved from a more generalized mammalian condition.
Rapid, non-genomic effects of glucocorticoids on extracellular adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP)-induced intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) changes and nitric oxide (NO) production were investigated in type I spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) of the guinea-pig cochlea using the Ca(2+)-sensitive dye fura-2 and the NO-sensitive dye 4,5-diaminofluorescein (DAF-2). Pretreatment of SGNs with 1 microM dexamethasone for 10 min, a synthetic glucocorticoid hormone, enhanced the ATP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increase in SGNs. RU 38486, a competitive glucocorticoid receptor antagonist eliminated the effects of dexamethasone on the ATP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increase in SGNs. These acute effects of dexamethasone were dependent on the presence of extracellular Ca(2+), thereby suggesting that dexamethasone may rapidly enhance the Ca(2+) influx through the activation of ionotropic P2X receptors which may interact with glucocorticoid-mediated membrane receptors. Extracellular ATP increased the intensity of DAF-2 fluorescence, indicating NO production in SGNs. The ATP-induced NO production was mainly due to the Ca(2+) influx through the activation of P2 receptors. S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, a NO donor, enhanced the ATP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increase in SGNs while L-N(G)-nitroarginine methyl ester (L-NAME), a NO synthesis inhibitor, inhibited it. Dexamethasone enhanced the ATP-induced NO production in SGNs. The augmentation of dexamethasone on ATP-induced NO production was abolished in the presence of l-NAME. It is concluded that the ATP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increase induces NO production which enhances a [Ca(2+)](i) increase in SGNs by a positive-feedback mechanism. Dexamethasone enhances the ATP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increase in SGNs which results in the augmentation of NO production. The present study suggests that NO may play an important role in auditory signal transduction. Our results also indicate that glucocorticoids may rapidly affect auditory neurotransmission due to a novel non-genomic mechanism.
The expression of Slo channels (alpha subunits of BK channels) was investigated in the developing mouse cochlea using a polyclonal antibody against the C-terminal part of the protein (residues 1098-1196). The first BK channel immunoreactivity was observed in the cochlea at E18, where it was localized within the cytoplasm of cells lining the area of the organ of Corti and the spiral ganglion. There was an increase of immunoreactivity in all cells bordering the scala media (supporting and hair cells of the organ of Corti, the stria vascularis and the Reissner's membrane) in the following stages (postnatal day [P] 0 and P6). From P12 to adult, a strong membranous labeling, increasing with age, appeared in inner hair cells. The distribution of BK channels was mainly observed as dense elongated plaques localized in the lateral membrane below the cuticular plate. In addition, a more discrete immunolabeling for BK channels, as punctuated dots, was observed in the synaptic area of inner hair cells. This dual localization of BK channels within inner hair cells was confirmed by a different technique using a fluorescently labeled high-affinity ligand of these channels: IbTX-D19C-Alexa488. We demonstrated under patch clamp experiments that this fluorescent toxin conserved its native property, i.e. to reversibly inhibit BK currents in isolated inner hair cells. The fluorescent toxin, both in living or fixed tissues, also showed a preferential binding to mature inner hair cells with a similar subcellular distribution described above using immunocytochemical technique. Overall, our present results confirm the appearance of membranous BK channels around P12 in mouse inner hair cells, an age at which the auditory system becomes functional. The expression of BK channels in mature inner hair cells, near the site of mechanical-transduction, might serve to limit receptor potential attenuation due to the space constant, and thus permitting these sensory cells to function as fast and sensitive transducers.
The role of peripheral serotonin (5HT) 2A and 5HT1A receptors on the orofacial nocifensive behavioral activities evoked by the injection of formalin into the masseter muscle was evaluated in the rats with persistent temporomandibular joint (TMJ) inflammation evoked by Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA). The orofacial nocifensive behavioral activities evoked by the injection of formalin into masseter muscle were significantly enhanced at 1 day (CFA day 1 group) or 7 days (CFA day 7 group) during TMJ inflammation. Pretreatment with local administration of 5HT2A receptor antagonist, ketanserin (0.01, 0.1 mg/rat) into the masseter muscle or systemic administration of ketanserin via i.p. injection (1 mg/kg) reduced the orofacial nocifensive behavioral activities of the late phase evoked by formalin injection into masseter muscle on the side of TMJ inflammation (CFA day 7 group). However, local (0.001-0.1 mg/rat) or systemic (1 mg/kg) administration of 5HT1A receptor antagonist, propranolol, into masseter muscle did not produce the antinociceptive effect in CFA day 7 group. Moreover, local administration of ketanserin (0.1 mg) or propranolol (0.1 mg) into masseter muscle did not inhibit nocifensive orofacial behavior in rats without TMJ inflammation. These data suggest that persistent TMJ inflammation causes the elevation of the orofacial nocifensive behavior, and peripheral 5HT2A receptors play an important role in mediating the deep craniofacial tissue nociception in rats with TMJ inflammation.
We evaluated the effects of Ala-7-conantokin-G (Con-G(A7)) and ifenprodil on the modulation by spermine of [(3)H]MK801 binding to human cortical membranes. Human cortical tissue was obtained at autopsy and stored at -80 degrees C until assay. Both Con-G(A7) and ifenprodil inhibited [(3)H]MK801 binding, but spermine affected these inhibitions differently. Con-G(A7) IC(50) changed little with spermine concentration, indicative of a non-competitive interaction, whereas the rightward shift in ifenprodil IC(50) with increasing spermine concentration suggested partial competition. When the two agents were tested against the biphasic activation of [(3)H]MK801 binding by spermine, they again differed in their effects. In the activation phase Con-G(A7) was a non-competitive inhibitor of spermine activation, and may even enhance the spermine EC(50), while the ifenprodil data indicated a partially competitive interaction. Both agents were non-competitive in the inhibitory phase. Overall, the data suggest that Con-G(A7) and ifenprodil interact differently with the polyamine modulation of the glutamate-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor.
We examined the distribution of estrogen receptor (ER)-alpha and ER-beta immunoreactive (ir) cells in the dorsal (DRN) and median/paramedian (MPRN) raphe nuclei in male mice. ER-alpha ir neurons were scattered across the three subdivisions (ventral, dorsal, and lateral) of the DRN and the MPRN. Robust ER-beta ir cells were observed throughout the raphe nuclei, and were particularly abundant in the ventral and dorsal subdivisions of the DRN. Using dual-label immunocytochemistry for ER-alpha or ER-beta with tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), the rate-limiting enzyme for 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) synthesis, over 90% of ER-beta ir cells exhibited TPH-ir in all DRN subdivisions, whereas only 23% of ER-alpha ir cells contained TPH. Comparisons of ER-alpha knockout (alphaERKO) as well as ER-beta knockout (betaERKO) mice with their respective wild-type (WT) littermates revealed that gene disruption of either ER-alpha or ER-beta did not affect the other ER subtype expression in the raphe nuclei. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that there was a small but statistically significant decrease in TPH mRNA expression in the ventral DRN subdivision in betaERKO mice compared with betaWT mice, whereas TPH mRNA levels were not affected in alphaERKO mice. These findings support a hypothesis that ER-beta activation may contribute to the estrogenic regulation of neuroendocrine and behavioral functions, in part, by acting directly on 5-HT neurons in the raphe nuclei in male mice.
Modulation of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) by nitric oxide (NO) is altered in brain from cirrhotic patients. The aim of this work was to assess whether an animal model of cirrhosis, bile duct ligation, alone or combined with diet-induced hyperammonemia for 7-10 days reproduces the alterations in NO modulation of sGC found in brains from cirrhotic patients. sGC activity was measured under basal conditions and in the presence of NO in cerebellum and cerebral cortex of the following groups of rats: controls, bile duct ligation without or with hyperammonemia and hyperammonemia without bile duct ligation. In cerebellum activation of sGC by NO was significantly lower in bile duct ligated rats with (12 +/- five-fold) or without (14 +/- six-fold) hyperammonemia than in control rats (23 +/- seven-fold). In cerebral cortex activation of sGC by NO was higher in rats with bile duct ligation with hyperammonemia (124 +/- 30-fold) but not without hyperammonemia (59 +/- 15-fold) than in control rats (66 +/- 11-fold). The combination of bile duct ligation and hyperammonemia reproduces the alterations in the modulation of soluble guanylate cyclase by NO found in cerebral cortex and cerebellum of cirrhotic patients while bile duct ligation or hyperammonemia alone reproduces the effects in cerebellum but not in cerebral cortex.
There is evidence that metyrapone (MET), apart from its inhibition of 11-beta steroid hydroxylation, may exert some stress-like effects in the brain, including the activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and the induction of c-fos. Since a single exposure to some stressors has been found to exert long-term effects on the HPA axis, we hypothesized that a single dose of MET (200 mg/kg, s.c.) could exert even stronger effects, due to the combination of its stressful properties with the lack of constrain of the HPA axis by glucocorticoids. Whereas the inhibitory effect of the drug on corticosterone secretion lasted less than 24 h, its stimulatory effect on the HPA axis could be seen for at least 2 days after the injection. Surprisingly, on day 8, an exacerbated HPA response to immobilization stress was observed in MET rats, despite complete normalization of resting levels of HPA hormones. At this time it was also observed, under basal conditions, increased levels of mRNA for CRH and arginin-vasopressin in the parvocellular region of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (pPVN), along with reduced mRNA for glucocorticoid receptors in dentate gyrus and hippocampus CA1, but not in pPVN or medial prefrontal cortex. These data suggest that a single MET administration can exert a marked and long-lasting dysregulation of both resting and stress-induced activity of the HPA axis. Thus, attention should be paid to these properties when using the drug to study the functional role of glucocorticoids.
By using in situ hybridization histochemistry the distribution of growth hormone (GH) receptor mRNA was examined in the rat brain stem and spinal cord. Dense labeling was seen in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus, as reported previously, but also in several other areas, including the locus coeruleus, the area postrema, and the commissural part of the nucleus of the solitary tract. Other labeled structures included the superior lateral parabrachial nucleus, the facial, hypoglossal and trigeminal motor nuclei, the nucleus incertus, the dorsal tegmental nucleus, the dorsal raphe nucleus, the nucleus of the trapezoid body, and the superficial layers of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. These findings provide support for a direct action of GH on brain regions involved in various aspects of homeostatic control. Thus, the distribution of GH receptor mRNA to visceral sensory and motor structures is consonant with a role of GH in the regulation of food intake and energy homeostasis. Its presence in the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord indicates a role for GH in the initial processing of fine afferent input, and may help explain the beneficial effects of GH replacement in certain unclear pain conditions.
Endogenous opioid peptides (EOP) are important modulators in a variety of neuroendocrine systems, including those mediating reproduction, energy balance, lactation, and stress. Recent work in the ewe has implicated the EOP, dynorphin (DYN), in the inhibitory effects of progesterone on pulsatile gonadotropin releasing hormone secretion. Although DYN is involved in a number of hypothalamic functions in the sheep, little is known regarding the localization of preprodynorphin (PPD) expression and its major product DYN A (1-17). In this study, we determined the distribution of PPD mRNA and DYN A-containing cell bodies in the brains of ovary-intact, luteal ewes. To detect PPD mRNA, an ovine PPD mRNA was subcloned by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction from sheep hypothalamus and used to create a (35)S-labeled riboprobe for in situ hybridization. Neurons that expressed PPD mRNA and DYN A immunoreactivity were widely distributed in the ovine preoptic area and hypothalamus. PPD mRNA-expressing cells were seen in the supraoptic nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, preoptic area, anterior hypothalamus area, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, ventromedial nucleus (VMN), dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, and the arcuate nucleus. All of these regions also contained DYN A-positive cell bodies except for the VMN, raising the possibility that PPD is preferentially processed into other peptide products in the VMN. In summary, based on the expression of both mRNA and peptide, DYN cells are located in a number of key hypothalamic regions involved in the neuroendocrine control of homeostasis in sheep.
WW domain-containing oxidoreductase WOX1, also named WWOX or FOR, is a known proapoptotic protein and a candidate tumor suppressor. Stress stimuli activate WOX1 via tyrosine 33 (Tyr33) phosphorylation and translocation to the mitochondria and nuclei in vitro. Here, the potential role of WOX1 in light-induced retinal degeneration in vivo was investigated. WOX1 is expressed primarily in the inner retina at perinatal stages, whereas an enhanced expression of WOX1, along with its Tyr33 phosphorylation (p-WOX1), is shown specifically in the retinal ganglion cells in adults. Prolonged exposure of mature rats to constant, low-intensity light (500 lux) for 1-2 months resulted in substantial death of photoreceptors and the presence of activated microglia, astrocytes and Muller glial in the outer retina. However, the inner retina was not or barely affected. In the damaged inner and outer nuclear layers of rat retina, WOX1 and p-WOX1 were overly expressed. Also, WOX1 colocalized with fragments of opsin-positive cones. In rd mice with an inherited retinal deficiency, upregulation of WOX1 and p-WOX1 in degenerated retina was observed with age. By electron microscopy, a large number of immunogold particles of WOX1 and p-WOX1 were found in the damaged mitochondria and condensed nuclei of degenerating photoreceptors, indicating that WOX1 undergoes activation and translocation to these organelles. In contrast, little or no WOX1-positive particles were found in the Golgi apparatus. In conclusion, activated WOX1 is likely to exert apoptosis of neuronal cells in the outer retina during the light-induced injury and in mice with an inherited retinal defect.
In order to investigate the role of molecular diversity of voltage-activated sodium channel alpha-subunits in excitability of neuronal and non-neuronal cells, we carried out patch-clamp recordings and single-cell RT-PCR on two different types of mammalian excitable cells i.e. hippocampal neurons and non-neuronal utricular epithelial hair cells. In each cell type, multiple different combinations of sodium channel alpha-subunits exist from cell to cell despite similar sodium current properties. The mRNA isoforms, Nav1.2 and Nav1.6, are the most frequently detected by single cell analysis in the two cell types while Nav1.3 and Nav1.7 are also moderately expressed in embryonic hippocampal neurons and in neonatal utricular hair cells respectively. By investigating the particular alternate splice isoforms of Nav1.6 occurring at the exon 18 of the mouse orthologue SCN8A, we revealed that this subunit co-exist in the two cell types under different alternative spliced isoforms. The expression of non-functional isoforms of Nav1.6 in utricular epithelial hair cells excludes the involvement of this subunit in supporting their excitability. Thus, from a functional point of view, the present results suggest that, at the single cell level, both neuronal and non-neuronal excitable cells expressed different and complex patterns of sodium channel gene transcripts but this diversity alone cannot explain the sodium current properties of these cell types.
Investigations using Drosophila melanogaster have shown that the circadian clock gene period can influence behavioral responses to cocaine, and the mouse homologues, mPer1 and mPer2, modulate cocaine sensitization and reward. In the present study, we applied DNAzyme targeting mPer1 to interfere the expression of mPer1 in CNS in mice and studied the role of mPer1 on morphine dependence. We found that the DNAzyme could attenuate the expression of mPer1 in CNS in mice. Mice treated with DNAzyme and morphine synchronously did not show preference to the morphine-trained side, whereas the control group did. In contrast, mice treated with DNAzyme after morphine showed preference to the morphine-trained side as well as the control group did. These results indicate that drug dependence seems to be influenced at least partially by mPer1, but mPer1 cannot affect morphine dependence that has been formed.
Estrogen (E) can function as a neuroprotectant of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic (NSDA) system against methamphetamine (MA) neurotoxicity in female, but not male, mice. In the present report we examined whether the organizational effects of gonadal steroid hormones, as exerted in the early postnatal period, or developmental effects, as exerted during the pubertal period, would contribute to this sexually dimorphic neuroprotectant action of E. Neonatal gonadectomy and treatment with testosterone of female mice, retained the ability to show an E neuroprotectant response when tested as adults. However, females not treated with gonadal steroids failed to show an E-dependent neuroprotectant response. Neonatal gonadectomy of male mice, failed to result in the display of an E neuroprotectant response when tested as adults. Prepubertal gonadectomy of female mice, with or without testosterone treatment, abolished the capacity for E to produce neuroprotection against MA-induced NSDA neurotoxicity. Nor did prepubertal gonadectomy enable male mice to show an E neuroprotectant response. Taken together these results demonstrate that none of the manipulations performed within male mice enabled them to show an E-dependent neuroprotective response against MA-induced neurotoxicity of the NSDA system when tested as adults. For the female, it appears that the presences of gonadal steroids at these two developmental periods are needed for the display of an E-dependent neuroprotectant response within the adult.
There is general agreement that dopaminergic neurons projecting from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex play a key role in drug reinforcement. The activity of these neurons is strongly modulated by the inhibitory and excitatory input they receive. Activation of mu-opioid receptors, located on GABAergic neurons in the VTA, causes hyperpolarization of these GABAergic neurons, thereby causing a disinhibition of VTA dopaminergic neurons. This effect of mu-opioid receptors upon GABA neurotransmission is a likely mechanism for mu-opioid receptor modulation of drug reinforcement. We studied mu-opioid receptor signaling in relation to cocaine reinforcement in wild-type and mu-opioid receptor knockout mice using a cocaine self-administration paradigm and in vitro electrophysiology. Cocaine self-administration was reduced in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice, suggesting a critical role of mu-opioid receptors in cocaine reinforcement. The frequency of spontaneous inhibitory post-synaptic currents onto dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area was increased in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice compared with wild-type controls, while the frequency of spontaneous excitatory post-synaptic currents was unaltered. The reduced cocaine self-administration and increased GABAergic input to VTA dopaminergic neurons in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice supports the notion that suppression of GABAergic input onto dopaminergic neurons in the VTA contributes to mu-opioid receptor modulation of cocaine reinforcement.
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) exists in endothelial cells as well as a variety of other cell types. The presence of ET-1 and its receptors in neurons suggests its possible role as a neurotransmitter and/or neuromodulator. Studies utilizing exogenous ET-1 have suggested that ET-1 affects pain transmission. This study was designed to examine the possible role(s) of neuronal ET-1 in pain processing. We produced neuron-specific ET-1 knockout mice using the Cre/loxP system with a synapsin I promoter and examined the effects produced by the lack of neuronal ET-1 on pain behavior using common pain models and a model of stress-induced analgesia. In acute nociceptive pain models, paw withdrawal thresholds to radiant heat and mechanical stimuli applied with von Frey hairs were significantly lower in the knockout mice compared with control. This indicated that the absence of neuronal ET-1 leads to greater sensitivity to acute nociceptive stimuli. After inflammation was produced by intraplantar injection of carrageenan, there was a significantly greater degree of thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia in the knockout mice even after the difference in baseline values was compensated. Furthermore, in a neuropathic pain model produced by spinal nerve ligation, there was also a greater degree of mechanical allodynia in the knockout mice. Finally, in a swim-stress model, the magnitude of stress-induced analgesia was less in the knockout mice, indicating the involvement of neuronal ET-1 in stress-induced analgesia. The results suggest that there is a basal release of ET-1 from neurons that affect baseline pain thresholds as well as an additional release during persistent pain states that acts to suppress the pain. The involvement of neuronal ET-1 in stress-induced analgesia further suggests its role in endogenous pain inhibitory systems. To confirm that ET-1 is released in persistent pain states and to determine which part of the CNS is involved, we measured the concentrations of ET-1 before and after inducing peripheral inflammation in different parts of the CNS involved in endogenous pain inhibitory systems in normal mice. We found that ET-1 was increased in the hypothalamus while no significant increase was observed in the midbrain, medulla and spinal cord. The results of the present study suggest that neuronal ET-1 is involved in endogenous pain inhibitory control likely via pathways through the hypothalamus.
A double transgenic mouse expressing the amyloid precursor protein, bearing the Swedish mutations, and expressing tau protein containing three of the mutations present in frontotemporal dementia linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17), has been characterized. In the double transgenic mouse an increase in tau phosphorylation at serine S262 and S422 was observed compared with that found in simple transgenic mice. The phosphorylation at S262 was also found, in a much lower level, in the single transgenic mouse expressing amyloid precursor protein (APP), and it was absent in that overexpressing tau variant. Additionally, in the double transgenic mouse a slight increase in the amount of sarkosyl insoluble tau polymers was observed in comparison with that found in single transgenic tau mouse. Also, wider tau filaments were found in the double transgenic mouse compared with those found in the single transgenic mouse. Our results suggest that beta-amyloid peptide could facilitate the phosphorylation of tau at a site not directed by proline, such as serine 262, and that modification could facilitate tau aberrant aggregation. Also, they suggest that different types of tau filamentous polymers can occur in different mouse models for tauopathies, like those used for Alzheimer's disease or FTDP-17.
Neuronal differentiation is a complex process involving the sequential expression of several factors. The important role of lipid molecules in brain development is well known. Many fatty acid cell signaling activities are mediated by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). PPARs are ligand-activated transcription factors belonging to the steroid, thyroid and retinoid nuclear receptor superfamily. They are activated by fatty acids and their derivatives. Different isotypes of PPARs (alpha, beta/delta and gamma) have distinct physiological functions depending on their different ligand activation profiles and tissue distribution. PPARs have been involved in neural cell differentiation and death as well as in inflammation and neurodegeneration. Although PPARs have been described in neurons by in situ studies, the presence and possible modulation of these receptors during neuronal differentiation has not been explored yet. In this study we analyzed the expression of PPARs and of their heterodimeric partners, RXRs, in embryonic rat cortical neurons during their in vitro maturation. Our results demonstrate the presence of PPARs alpha, beta/delta and gamma and of RXRs beta and gamma. PPARalpha, beta/delta and gamma are differentially modulated during culture time suggesting that they may be involved in neuronal maturation. In particular, we point toward the PPARbeta/delta isotype as a key factor in neuronal differentiation.
Cholinergic neurons degenerate in Alzheimer's disease and dementia and neuroprotective substances are of high interest to counteract this cell death. The aim of the present study was to test the effect of urea and the nitric oxide synthetase inhibitor l-thiocitrulline on the survival of cholinergic neurons. Organotypic brain slices of the basal nucleus of Meynert were cultured for 2 weeks in the presence of 1-100 microM urea with or without NGF or other growth factors or with or without 1-10 microM of the NOS inhibitor L-thiocitrulline. A high number of cholinergic neurons survived in the presence of 0.1-100 ng/ml NGF. Urea or L-thiocitrulline alone did not exhibit neuroprotective activity; however, when brain slices were incubated with urea or L-thiocitrulline together with NGF there was a significant potentiating survival effect. Incubation of brain slices with NGF + urea + L-thiocitrulline did not further enhance the number of cholinergic neurons. NGF as well as urea did not stimulate expression of the enzyme choline acetyltransferase pointing to survival promoting effects. Urea did not modulate the NGF binding in PC12 cells indicating that this effect was indirect. It is concluded that urea may play a role as an indirect survival promoting molecule possibly involving the nitric oxide pathway.
Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made from neurons of the rat subpostremal region of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) in transverse brainstem slices. Neurotensin (NT) enhanced the firing rate of action potentials from 0.8 +/- 0.4 Hz in control to 1.9 +/- 1.3 Hz (n = 9) and increased their decay time. The peak amplitude of the after-hyperpolarization was decreased by 34+/-5% (n = 9). These effects were associated with a depolarization of 4 +/- 1 mV (n = 10) in the resting membrane potential and an increase in the input resistance (from 768 +/- 220 MOmega to 986+/-220 MOmega; n = 5) and were compensated by manually hyperpolarizing the cell to control values. In voltage clamp experiments NT decreased an outward current (from 488 +/- 161 to 340 +/- 96 pA at +40 mV; n = 5) which reversed near the potassium equilibrium potential. In addition, NT increased the frequency of both excitatory and inhibitory spontaneous synaptic currents, an effect blocked by tetrodotoxin, and did not change the evoked excitatory or inhibitory postsynaptic currents. The selective NTR1 receptor antagonist SR48692 reversibly blocked the effects of NT on both action potentials and spontaneous synaptic currents. Our results suggest that NTR1 receptors can modulate post-synaptic responses in neurons of the subpostremal NTS by increasing cell excitability as a result of blockade of a potassium conductance.
The psychomotor stimulant methamphetamine (METH) has been shown to cause specific behaviors such as hyperlocomotion in rodents. Pretreatment of repeated s.c. administration of clorgyline (1 mg/kg, once per day for 5 consecutive days), a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor, blocked hyperlocomotion induced by a single i.p. administration of METH (1 mg/kg) in male ICR mice, without any effect on spontaneous locomotion. The blockade was also observed when mice were pretreated with a single administration of clorgyline (1 mg/kg, s.c.), without potentiating hyperlocomotion and rearing induced by a single challenge of METH at the range of 0.5-2 mg/kg (i.p.). In contrast, single or repeated pretreatment of selegiline (0.3 mg/kg, s.c.), a MAO-B inhibitor, had no effect on METH-induced hyperlocomotion. Clorgyline pretreatment, both single and repeated, altered the effects of single METH challenges on apparent 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) turnover in the region of the striatum and accumbens. These results suggest that clorgyline tends to oppose METH-induced hyperlocomotion through alteration of the serotonergic system in the region of the striatum and accumbens.
Despite consistent evidence of an association between depression and impaired memory performance, only a few studies have investigated memory processes in animal models of depression. The aim of the present study was to determine if rats selected for marked differences in their immobility response in the forced swimming test (FST, i.e. high-immobility, [HI] and low-immobility [LI] rats) exhibit differences in spatial and non-spatial memory performances. In a classic radial maze elimination task, we observed that HI rats made significantly more errors than LI rats, and their first error appeared significantly earlier. In a delayed spatial win-shift procedure where rats have to hold spatially relevant information in working memory across a 30 min delay, HI rats tended initially to perform more poorly than LI rats. HI rats made more across-phase errors, the occurrence of the first error was earlier and by the end of the experiment the differences between the two groups disappeared. Thus, HI rats present more difficulties to learn the rules in a spatial task and show weaker performances in spatial working memory in comparison to LI rats. On the other hand, performances in the two groups of animals were similar in a non-spatial task, the object recognition task. Complementary behavioral data indicate that the differences observed between the two groups are not attributable to opposite locomotor activities or to different levels of anxiety. Overall we can conclude that opposite swimming behavior in the FST could parallel some differences in cognitive performances, more specifically linked to spatial working memory.
We investigated whether there is endogenous acetylcholine (ACh) release in the preBtzinger Complex (preBtC), a medullary region hypothesized to contain neurons generating respiratory rhythm, and how endogenous ACh modulates preBtCneuronal function and regulates respiratory pattern. Using a medullary slice preparation from neonatal rat, we recorded spontaneous respiratory-related rhythm from the hypoglossal nerve roots (XIIn) and patch-clamped preBtC inspiratory neurons. Unilateral microinjection of physostigmine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, into the preBtC increased the frequency of respiratory-related rhythmic activity from XIIn to 116+/-13% (mean+/-S.D.) of control. Ipsilateral physostigmine injection into the hypoglossal nucleus (XII nucleus) induced tonic activity, increased the amplitude and duration of the integrated inspiratory bursts of XIIn to 122+/-17% and 117+/-22% of control respectively; but did not alter frequency. In preBtC inspiratory neurons, bath application of physostigmine (10 microM) induced an inward current of 6.3+/-10.6 pA, increased the membrane noise, decreased the amplitude of phasic inspiratory drive current to 79+/-16% of control, increased the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents to 163+/-103% and decreased the whole cell input resistance to 73+/-22% of control without affecting the threshold for generation of action potentials. Bath application of physostigmine concurrently induced tonic activity, increased the frequency, amplitude and duration of inspiratory bursts of XIIn motor output. Bath application of 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methiodide (4-DAMP, 2 microM), a M3 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) selective antagonist, increased the input resistance of preBtC inspiratory neurons to 116+/-9% of control and blocked all of the effects of physostigmine except for the increase in respiratory frequency. Dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DH-beta-E; 0.2 microM), an alpha4beta2 nicotinic receptor (nAChR) selective antagonist, blocked all the effects of physostigmine except for the increase in inspiratory burst amplitude. In the presence of both 4-DAMP and DH-beta-E, physostigmine induced opposite effects, i.e. a decrease in frequency and amplitude of XIIn rhythmic activity. These results suggest that there is cholinergic neurotransmission in the preBtC which regulates respiratory frequency, and in XII nucleus which regulates tonic activity, and the amplitude and duration of inspiratory bursts of XIIn in neonatal rats. Physiologically relevant levels of ACh release, via mAChRs antagonized by 4-DAMP and nAChRs antagonized by DH-beta-E, modulate the excitability of inspiratory neurons and excitatory neurotransmission in the preBtC, consequently regulating respiratory rhythm.
The study of the neural basis of predatory behavior has been largely neglected over the recent years. Using an ethologically based approach, we presently delineate the prosencephalic systems mobilized during predation by examining Fos immunoreactivity in rats performing insect hunting. These results were further compared with those obtained from animals killed after the early nocturnal surge of food ingestion. First, predatory behavior was associated with a distinct Fos up-regulation in the ventrolateral caudoputamen at intermediate rostro-caudal levels, suggesting a possible candidate to organize the stereotyped sequence of actions seen during insect hunting. Insect predation also presented conspicuous mobilization of a neural network formed by a distinct amygdalar circuit (i.e. the postpiriform-transition area, the anterior part of cortical nucleus, anterior part of basomedial nucleus, posterior part of basolateral nucleus, and medial part of central nucleus) and affiliated sites in the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (i.e. the rhomboid nucleus) and in the hypothalamus (i.e. the parasubthalamic nucleus). Accordingly, this network is likely to encode prey-related motivational values, such as prey's odor and taste, and to influence autonomic and motor control accompanying predatory eating. Notably, regular food intake was also associated with a relatively weak Fos up-regulation in this network. However, during regular surge of food intake, we observed a much larger mobilization in hypothalamic sites related to the homeostatic control of eating, namely, the arcuate nucleus and autonomic parts of the paraventricular nucleus. Overall, the present findings suggest potential neural systems involved in integrating prey-related motivational values and in organizing the stereotyped sequences of action seen during predation. Moreover, the comparison with regular food intake contrasts putative neural mechanisms controlling predatory related eating vs. regular food intake.
Brain slices maintained in vitro have been extensively used for studying neuronal synchronization. However, the validity of this approach may be questioned since pharmacological procedures are usually required to elicit spontaneous events similar to the EEG activity recorded in vivo. Here, we report that when superfused with control medium, rat brain slices comprising the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices along with a portion of the basolateral/lateral nuclei of the amygdala can synchronously generate periodic oscillatory activity at 5-11 Hz every 5-30 s. The periodic events: (i) correspond intracellularly to synaptic depolarizations in regularly firing neurons analyzed in the three areas; (ii) have no fixed site of onset; (iii) spread with time lags of 8-20 ms; and (iv) continue to occur asynchronously after their surgical isolation. NMDA receptor antagonism reduced the duration of the oscillatory events, while glutamatergic non-NMDA receptor antagonism abolished them. Activation of mu-opioid receptors, a procedure that hyperpolarizes interneurons thus decreasing GABA release, reversibly decreased the rate of occurrence of periodic oscillatory activity (POA). However, periodic events continued to occur during application of GABA(A) or GABA(B) receptor antagonists as well as in the presence of the cholinergic agent carbachol. We also found that POA was abolished by baclofen and irreversibly reduced by the gap junction decoupler carbenoxolone. These findings demonstrate that parahippocampal networks in a brain slice preparation can generate periodic, synchronous activity under quasi-physiological conditions. These network oscillations (i) reflect the activation of ionotropic glutamatergic and GABAergic receptors, (ii) are contributed by gap-junction interactions, and (iii) are controlled by GABA(B) receptors that are presumably located presynaptically.
CNS activity is generally coupled to the vigilance state, being primarily active during wakefulness and primarily inactive during deep sleep. During periods of high neuronal activity, a significant volume of oxygen is used to maintain neuronal membrane potentials, which subsequently produces cytotoxic reactive oxygen species (ROS). Glutathione, a major endogenous antioxidant, is an important factor protecting against ROS-mediated neuronal degeneration. Glutathione has also been proposed to be a sleep-promoting substance, yet the relationship between sleep and cerebral oxidation remains unclear. Here we report that i.c.v. infusion of the organic peroxide t-butyl-hydroperoxide at a concentration below that triggering neurodegeneration (0.1 micromol/100 microl/10 h) promotes sleep in rats. Also, microinjection (2 nmol, 2 microl) or microdialysis (100 microM, 20 min) of t-butyl-hydroperoxide into the preoptic/anterior hypothalamus (POAH) induces the release of the sleep-inducing neuromodulators, nitric oxide and adenosine, without causing neurodegeneration. Nitric oxide and adenosine release was inhibited by co-dialysis of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, d(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5; 1 mM), suggesting that glutamate-induced neuronal excitation mediates the peroxide-induced release of nitric oxide and adenosine. Indeed, Ca2+ release from mitochondria and delayed-onset Ca2+ influx via N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors was visualized during peroxide exposure using Ca2+ indicator proteins (YC-2.1 and mitochondrial-targeted Pericam) expressed in organotypic cultures of the POAH. In the in vitro models, t-butyl-hydroperoxide (50 microM) causes dendritic swelling followed by the intracellular Ca2+ mobilization, and D-AP5 (100 microM) or glutathione (500 microM) inhibited t-butyl-hydroperoxide-induced intracellular Ca2+ mobilization and protected POAH neurons from oxidative stress. These data suggest that low-level subcortical oxidation under the control of an antioxidant system may trigger sleep via the Ca(2+)-dependent release of sleep-inducing neuromodulators in the POAH, and thus we propose that a moderate increase of ROS during wakefulness in the neuronal circuits regulating sleep may be an initial trigger in sleep induction.
Our goal was to test the following hypotheses: 1) GABA(A) receptors facilitate neurokinin release from primary afferent terminals; 2) they do this by suppressing an inhibitory effect of GABA(B) receptors; 3) the activation of these two receptors is controlled by the firing frequency of primary afferents. We evoked neurokinin release by stimulating the dorsal root attached to spinal cord slices, and measured it using neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1R) internalization. Internalization evoked by root stimulation at 1 Hz (but not at 100 Hz) was increased by the GABA(A) receptor agonists muscimol (effective concentration of drug for 50% of the increase [EC50] 3 microM) and isoguvacine (EC50 4.5 microM). Internalization evoked by root stimulation at 100 Hz was inhibited by the GABA(A) receptor antagonists bicuculline (effective concentration of drug for 50% of the inhibition [IC50] 2 microM) and picrotoxin (IC50 243 nM). Internalization evoked by incubating the root with capsaicin (to selectively recruit nociceptive fibers) was increased by isoguvacine and abolished by picrotoxin. Therefore, GABA(A) receptors facilitate neurokinin release. Isoguvacine-facilitated neurokinin release was inhibited by picrotoxin, low Cl-, low Ca2+, Ca2+ channel blockers and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists. Bumetanide, an inhibitor of the Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl- cotransporter, inhibited isoguvacine-facilitated neurokinin release, but this could be attributed to a direct inhibition of GABA(A) receptors. The GABA(B) agonist baclofen inhibited NK1R internalization evoked by 100 Hz root stimulation (IC50 1.5 microM), whereas the GABA(B) receptor antagonist (2S)-3-[[(1S)-1-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]amino-2-hydroxypropyl](phenylmethyl) phosphinic acid (CGP-55845) increased NK1R internalization evoked by 1 Hz root stimulation (EC50 21 nM). Importantly, baclofen inhibited isoguvacine-facilitated neurokinin release, and CGP-55845 reversed the inhibition of neurokinin release by bicuculline. In conclusion, 1) GABA(B) receptors located presynaptically in primary afferent terminals inhibit neurokinin release; 2) GABA(A) receptors located in GABAergic interneurons facilitate neurokinin release by suppressing GABA release onto these GABA(B) receptors; 3) high frequency firing of C-fibers stimulates neurokinin release by activating GABA(A) receptors and inhibiting GABA(B) receptors, whereas low frequency firing inhibits neurokinin release by the converse mechanisms.
A decrease in the number of nicotinic-acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in the brain is thought to contribute to the cognitive dysfunction associated with diseases as diverse as Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. Interestingly, nicotine and similar compounds have been shown to enhance memory function and increase the expression of nAChRs and therefore, could have a therapeutic role in the aforementioned diseases. Nicotine has also been shown to exert positive effects on certain neurotrophins such as nerve growth factor (NGF), and therefore could play a role beyond mere symptomatic therapy. However, to date, comprehensive studies of nicotine's effects on the expression of specific acetylcholine (ACh) receptor subtypes, key cholinergic proteins (that are regulated by NGF) such as choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and the vesicular ACh transporter (VAChT) are lacking. Studies to further investigate the effects of nicotine on NGF especially its high- and low-affinity receptors are also needed. In the present study, male Wistar rats exposed a relatively low dosage of nicotine (0.35 mg/kg every 12 h) for 14 days demonstrated improved memory performance (assessed in two separate water maze testing methods) when compared with controls. Autoradiographic experiments indicated that nicotine increased [3H]-epibatidine, [125I]-alpha-bungarotoxin and [3H]-AFDX384, but not [3H]-pirenzepine binding sites in several learning- and memory-related brain areas. The expression of ChAT, VAChT, as well as tropomyosin-receptor kinase A (TrkA) NGF receptors and phospho-TrK receptors was increased by nicotine in the hippocampus. No changes were observed in the levels of the NGF peptide or low affinity p75 neurotrophin receptors (p75NTR), however. These results suggest that repeated exposure to nicotine results in positive effects on central cholinergic markers and memory function, which may be mediated via effects on high-affinity NGF receptors.
Narcolepsy-cataplexy, a disorder of excessive sleepiness and abnormalities of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, results from deficiency of the hypothalamic orexin (hypocretin) neuropeptides. Modafinil, an atypical wakefulness-promoting agent with an unknown mechanism of action, is used to treat hypersomnolence in these patients. Fos protein immunohistochemistry has previously demonstrated that orexin neurons are activated after modafinil administration, and it has been hypothesized that the wakefulness-promoting properties of modafinil might therefore be mediated by the neuropeptide. Here we tested this hypothesis by immunohistochemical, electroencephalographic, and behavioral methods using modafinil at doses of 0, 10, 30 and 100 mg/kg i.p. in orexin-/- mice and their wild-type littermates. We found that modafinil produced similar patterns of neuronal activation, as indicated by Fos immunohistochemistry, in both genotypes. Surprisingly, modafinil more effectively increased wakefulness time in orexin-/- mice than in the wild-type mice. This may reflect compensatory facilitation of components of central arousal in the absence of orexin in the null mice. In contrast, the compound did not suppress direct transitions from wakefulness to REM sleep, a sign of narcolepsy-cataplexy in mice. Spectral analysis of the electroencephalogram in awake orexin-/- mice under baseline conditions revealed reduced power in the theta; band frequencies (8-9 Hz), an index of alertness or attention during wakefulness in the rodent. Modafinil administration only partly compensated for this attention deficit in the orexin null mice. We conclude that the presence of orexin is not required for the wakefulness-prolonging action of modafinil, but orexin may mediate some of the alerting effects of the compound.
Anabolic steroids are drugs of abuse. However, the potential for steroid reward and addiction remains largely unexplored. This study used i.c.v. testosterone self-administration and controlled infusions of testosterone or vehicle in hamsters to explore central mechanisms of androgen overdose. Forty-two hamsters used nose-pokes to self-administer 1 microg/microl testosterone i.c.v. 4 h/day in an operant chamber. During 1-56 days of androgen self-administration, 10 (24%) hamsters died. Deaths correlated with peak daily intake of testosterone. Of the hamsters that self-administered a peak intake of &lt;20 microg/day, there was 100% survival (10/10). Survival decreased to 86% (19/22) when daily testosterone intake peaked at 20-60 microg/day. Only 30% (three of 10) survived when daily testosterone intake exceeded 60 microg/day. Deaths are not due to volume or vehicle because i.c.v. infusions of 80 mul vehicle had no effect. Testosterone overdose resembles opiate intoxication. When male hamsters received infusions of 40 microg testosterone, locomotion (25.1+/-18.8 grid-crossings/10 min), respiration (72.7+/-5.4 breaths/min) and body temperature (33.5+/-0.4 degrees C) were significantly reduced, compared with males receiving vehicle infusions (186.1+/-8.1 crossings/10 min, 117.6+/-1.0 breaths/min, 35.9+/-0.1 degrees C, P&lt;0.05). However, males developed tolerance to continued daily testosterone infusion. After 15 days, locomotion (170.2+/-6.3 crossings), respiration (118.4+/-1.3 breaths/min), and body temperature (35.3+/-0.3 degrees C) in testosterone-infused males were equivalent to that in vehicle controls (P&gt;0.05). The depressive effects of testosterone infusion are blocked by the opioid antagonist, naltrexone. With naltrexone pre-treatment (10 mg/kg s.c.), locomotion (183.7+/-1.8 crossings/10 min), respiration (116.9+/-0.3 breaths/min), and body temperature (36.1+/-0.4 degrees C) during testosterone infusion were equivalent to vehicle controls. Likewise, naltrexone prevents the reinforcing effects of i.c.v. testosterone self-administration. These results indicate that testosterone at high doses causes central autonomic depression, which may be a factor in deaths during self-administration. As well, the depressive effects of large quantities of testosterone may be mediated, at least in part, by an opioidergic mechanism.
Antecedent hypoglycemia is a primary factor in hypoglycemia-associated autonomic failure, a pathophysiological condition characterized by impaired glucose counterregulatory function. Conventional therapeutic strategies involving administration of intermediate dosage-release formulations of insulin in the management of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus result in frequent iatrogenic hypoglycemia. This study investigated the neuroanatomical location, direction, and magnitude of CNS neuronal genomic activation by singular versus repeated induction of hypoglycemic bouts of greater than 6 h duration achieved by administration of the intermediate-acting insulin, humulin neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH). Adult male rats injected subcutaneously with Humulin NPH exhibited robust immunolabeling for the nuclear transcription factor, Fos, in discrete telencephalic, diencephalic, midbrain, and caudal hindbrain loci in a pattern that was not identical to that described for regular insulin. Administration of four doses of insulin on as many days significantly diminished or extinguished Fos immunostaining within the parvocellular hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, lateral hypothalamic area, dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, thalamic paraventricular nucleus, nucleus tractus solitarius, and area postrema, but did not modify labeling of other metabolic loci. However, numbers of Fos-immunoreactivity-positive magnocellular neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei were significantly increased after the second and fourth insulin doses, relative to the single-dose group. Concurrent observations of exacerbated hypoglycemia and modified patterns of glucoregulatory hormone secretion after serial injections of intermediate-acting insulin suggest that central mechanisms governing compensatory endocrine responses, specifically glucagon, become habituated to repetitive hypoglycemia of extended duration. Resultant alterations in CNS-islet and -adrenomedullary output and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity may reflect diminished neuronal activation within one or more of the brain loci characterized here by nonuniform transcriptional activation. The current studies provide a neuroanatomical foundation for further investigation of the neurochemical phenotypes and interconnectivity of functionally adaptive neurons, underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms of diminished or enhanced activation, as well as the impact of these modified cellular responses on glucose counterregulation during administration of intermediate-acting insulin.
Nuclear Ca2+ signals are thought to play a critical role in the initiation and progression of programmed cell death. The present study tests the hypothesis that hypoxia alters nuclear Ca2+ transport pathways and leads to an increase in nuclear Ca(2+)-influx in cerebral cortical neuronal nuclei. To test this hypothesis the effect of tissue hypoxia on high affinity Ca(2+)-ATPase activity and the binding characteristics of inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3) and inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (IP4) receptors were studied in neuronal nuclei from the cerebral cortex of guinea-pig fetuses. Results show increased high-affinity Ca(2+)-ATPase activity (nmol/mg protein/h) in the hypoxic group 969.7+/-79 as compared with 602.4+/-90.9 in the normoxic group, P&lt;0.05. The number of IP3 receptors (Bmax, fmol/mg protein) increased from 61+/-21 in the normoxic group to 164+/-49 in the hypoxic group, P&lt;0.05. K(d) values did not change following hypoxia. In contrast, IP4 receptor Bmax (fmol/mg protein) and K(d) (nM) values increased from 360+/-32 in the normoxic group to 626+/-136 in the hypoxic group (P&lt;0.001) and, from 26+/-1 in the normoxic group to 61+/-9 in the hypoxic group (P&lt;0.001), respectively. 45Ca(2+)-influx (pmol/mg protein) significantly increased from 6.3+/-1.9 in the normoxic group to 10.9+/-1.1 the hypoxic group (P&lt;0.001). The data show that hypoxia modifies nuclear Ca2+ transport pathways and results in increased nuclear Ca(2+)-influx. We speculate that hypoxia increases nuclear Ca2+ uptake from the cytoplasm to the nucleoplasm, resulting in increased transcription of proapoptotic genes and subsequent activation of programmed cell death pathways.
Prenatal irradiation is known to damage the developing brain. However, little is known about the consequences of very low dose rate prenatal protracted irradiation over several days on neuron numbers in the offspring brain, and on volumes of the corresponding brain regions. Pregnant Wistar rats were exposed either to a protracted gamma irradiation from embryonic day (E) 13 to E16 (0.7 mGy/min; total cumulative dose approximately 3 Gy) or were sham-irradiated. Thirty months old male and female offspring were then analyzed for alterations in hippocampal and cerebellar morphology. Using design-based stereology and the analysis of sets of sections systematically and randomly sampled to span the entire brain region of interest, a statistically significant decrease in numbers of hippocampal pyramidal and granule cells as well as of cerebellar Purkinje and granule cells (approximately 50%) was found in male and female irradiated offspring. The volumes of these brain regions were comparably altered. The analysis of only a &quot;representative&quot; section per animal yielded mostly non-significant trends. Evaluation of neuron densities showed no differences between prenatally irradiated and sham-irradiated offspring. Most importantly, very low dose rate prenatal protracted gamma irradiation did not result in the same morphologic alterations in the offspring brain as previously observed after prenatal single irradiation such as derangement of the laminar structure of pyramidal cells within the hippocampus or malformation of cerebellar lobules.
Previous studies have demonstrated that human astrocytes express mRNA and receptor protein for group I and II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). Whether these receptors can influence the inflammatory and immune response and can modulate the capacity of astrocytes to produce inflammatory cytokines is still unclear. Inflammatory cytokines can be produced by activated glial cells and play a critical role in several neurological disorders. Astrocyte-enriched human cell cultures growing in a serum-free chemically defined medium were used to study the regulation of IL (interleukin)-1beta and IL-6 in response to mGluR activation. Astrocytes cultured in the absence or in the presence of epidermal growth factor (EGF), did not secrete significant IL-1beta and IL-6, as determined by specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Activation of mGluRs using (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG; selective group I agonist) or DCG-IV (selective group II agonist) did not affect the production of interleukins under both growth conditions. On exposure to IL-1beta high levels of IL-6 were detected. Activation of mGluR3 with DCG-IV (but not of mGluR5 with DHPG) enhanced, in the presence of IL-1beta, the release of IL-6 in a dose dependent manner in astrocytes cultured under conditions (+EGF) in which the mGluR expression is known to be upregulated. The effect of mGluR3 activation on IL-1beta stimulated release of IL-6 was prevented by selective group II mGluR antagonists. The capacity of mGluR3 to modulate the release of IL-6 in the presence of IL-1beta supports the possible involvement of this receptor subtype in the regulation of the inflammatory and immune response under pathological conditions associated with glial cell activation.
The verrucae areae entorhinalis (VAE) are a characteristic feature of the human brain that occupy the anterior and posterolateral parts of the parahippocampal gyri and correspond to the islands of layer II neurons. We analyzed VAE in 60 neurologically normal subjects ranging from 23 to 85 years of age using a casting method. In 10 of these subjects the total number of neurons in the entorhinal islands was estimated stereologically using the optical fractionator. The number and surface area of VAE were higher in the left hemisphere compared with the right, and this leftward asymmetry was highly significant. Regression analysis showed a negative correlation between average VAE area and age in both hemispheres, representing a rate loss of about 800 microm2 per year. The estimated number of neurons obtained with the optical fractionator showed no significant difference between the left and the right hemisphere (468,000+/-144,000 vs. 405,000+/-117,000). There was a highly significant negative correlation between neuron numbers and age in both sides. In addition, clusters of small, undifferentiated layer II neurons ('heterotopias') were frequently observed in the rostral part of the entorhinal cortex in young and elderly adults. Layer II entorhinal neurons are among the first to show neurofibrillary changes during normal aging. The present data confirm the occurrence of age-related neuron loss in the entorhinal cortex. Considering the consistent projections from ipsilateral auditory association areas that, together with Broca's motor-speech area (Brodmann areas 44 and 45), show leftward asymmetry from early infancy (such as Brodmann area 22, planum temporale, and area 52 in the long insular gyrus), we speculate that functional lateralization of the human entorhinal cortex may be associated with specialization for memory processing related to language. Due to the dependence of hippocampal formation on entorhinal projections, this finding is also consistent with the greater capacity of the left hippocampus for verbal episodic memory.
Around 20% of familial cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis have been shown to carry mutations in Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase 1 (Cu/Zn SOD1). Transgenic mice over-expressing human mutant SOD1 genes have been developed and in this study we examined the effect of nerve injury on disease progression in these mice. Firstly, disease progression in uninjured mice was characterised using physiological methods. Muscle force, contractile characteristics and motor unit survival was established at 90 days, an early symptomatic stage and also at the end-stage of the disease, at 130 days. In addition, muscle histochemistry was examined and the extent of motoneuron survival established morphologically. By 90 days of age, there is a significant reduction in muscle force, and nearly 40% of motoneurons within the sciatic motor pool have already died. By 130 days, the muscles are significantly weaker, and there is a dramatic change in the phenotype of extensor digitorum longus (EDL), which changes from a fast fatigable muscle, to a fatigue resistant muscle with a high oxidative capacity. By this stage of the disease, only 40% of motor units in EDL survive, with only 29% of motoneurons surviving within the sciatic motor pool. Following injury to the sciatic nerve in SOD1(G93A) mice, there is an acceleration in disease progression so that 90 day old mice show deficits that are only seen at the end stage in uninjured SOD1(G93A) mice. It is therefore possible that mutant SOD1 toxicity increases the vulnerability of motoneurons and muscles to stressful stimuli such as nerve injury.
We have investigated the effect of serotonin (5-HT) and okadaic acid (OA) on presynaptic processes at the crayfish inhibitory neuromuscular junction. Two different physiological parameters of transmitter release were examined: release kinetics and the size of the readily releasable pool of vesicles (RRP). Using a paired pulse stimulus and high frequency trains, we established that a single broad action potential, recorded in 20 mM tetraethylammonium and 1 mM 4-amino-pyridine, released the RRP in its entirety. Thus, by measuring the amplitude of inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSC) we were able to directly assess the effects of 5-HT and OA on the RRP. Serotonin at 200 nM and OA at 2.5 microM each significantly increased IPSC above control levels and the effects of these two modulators were comparable. Both modulators also induced a leftward shift in the rising phase of IPSC, i.e. an apparent acceleration in release kinetics. The shift caused by OA was significantly more pronounced than that induced by 5-HT. This apparent acceleration in release was not associated with a corresponding change in the presynaptic Ca2+ transient measured at a 2 kHz resolution, suggesting that modulation was not due to an acceleration in Ca2+ channel kinetics. In view of the comparable increase in the size of the RRP by the modulators, the differential modulation of release kinetics suggests that these two parameters may be modulated by separate biochemical processes.
The corticospinal tract is widely used to study regeneration and is essential for voluntary movements in humans. In young rats, corticospinal axons on the uninjured side sprout and grow into the denervated side. Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) induces such crossed collateral sprouting in adults. We investigated whether local intraspinal NT-3 infusions would promote collateral sprouting of spared corticospinal terminals from within a partially denervated side, as this would be more appropriate for enhancing function of unilateral and specific movements. Adult rats received a partial bilateral transection of the pyramids, leaving approximately 40% of each tract intact. Vehicle or vehicle plus NT-3 (3 or 10 microg/day) was infused for 14 days into the left side of the cervical (C5/6) or lumbar (L2) cord. The corticospinal processes on the left side were anterogradely traced with cholera toxin B (CTB; which labeled gray matter processes more robustly than biotinylated dextran amine) injected into the front or hind limb area of the right sensorimotor cortex, respectively, 3 days before analysis. Unexpectedly, approximately 40% fewer CTB-labeled corticospinal processes were detectable in the cervical or lumbar gray matter of NT-3-treated rats than in vehicle-infused ones. Vehicle-infused injured rats had more corticospinal processes in the center of the cord than normal rats, evidence for lesion-induced collateral sprouting. NT-3 caused sprouting of local calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive fibers. These results suggest that NT-3 reduces collateral sprouting of spared corticospinal axons from within the denervated regions, possibly because of the injury environment or by increasing sprouting of local afferents. They identify an unexpected context-dependent outgrowth inhibitory effect of NT-3.
Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is a recessive inherited neurovisceral lipid storage disease characterized by progressive motor impairment and a loss of neurones including those integrated into the motor system. One of the key neuropathological findings is the intracellular accumulation of lysosomes enriched with free cholesterol. This accumulation is due to impaired transport proteins named NPC1 (approx. 95% of the cases) or NPC2 (approx. 5%) responsible for the transport of endocytosed cholesterol from lysomes to plasma membranes. The perturbed lipid-transport in NPC cells leads to an altered lipid composition of the plasma membrane. Available evidence suggests that the lipid matrix influences the electrophysical properties of ion channels in membranes. We therefore evaluated whether electrophysiological properties of NPC neurones differ from healthy neurones. Both, acute brain slices and primary neuronal cell cultures from wildtype and NPC mice, a well-established mouse model for the Niemann-Pick type C disease, were used for a comparison of electrophysiological properties like resting membrane potential, input resistance, action potential amplitudes and synaptic properties of the neurones. In addition we optically recorded the changes of intraneuronal calcium levels elicited by depolarization. Our results show that the characteristics of ion channels in NPC neurones do not differ significantly from wildtype neurones. We therefore conclude that gross alterations of the electrophysiological properties of neurones will probably not initiate or substantially contribute to the development of the motor impairment or other neurological signs of NPC.
In this study, we investigated whether changes in the vestibular neuronal activity per se influence the pattern of astrocytes morphology, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression and ultimately their activation within the vestibular nuclei after unilateral transtympanic tetrodotoxin (TTX) injections and after unilateral inner ear lesion. The rationale was that, theoretically the noninvasive pharmacological functional blockade of peripheral vestibular inputs with TTX, allowed us to dissociate the signals exclusively related to the shutdown of the resting activity of the first-order vestibular neurons and from neuronal signals associated with trans-ganglionic changes in first order vestibular neurons induced by unilateral labyrinthectomy (UL). Since the cochlea was removed during the surgical procedure, we also studied the astrocytic reaction within the deafferented cochlear nuclei. No significant changes in the distribution or relative levels of GFAP mRNA expression, relative levels of GFAP protein or immunoreactivity for GFAP were found in the ipsilateral vestibular nuclei at any post-TTX injection times studied. In addition, no sign of microglia activation was observed. In contrast, a robust increase of the distribution and relative levels of GFAP mRNA expression, protein levels and immunoreactivity was observed in the deafferented vestibular and cochlear nuclei beginning at 1 day after inner ear lesion. GFAP mRNA expression and immunoreactivity in the cochlear nucleus was qualitatively stronger than in the ipsilateral vestibular nuclei. The results suggest that astrocyte activation in the vestibular nuclei is not related to drastic changes of vestibular nuclei neuronal activity per se. Early trans-ganglionic changes due to vestibular nerve dendrites lesion provoked by the mechanical destruction of vestibular receptors, most probably induced the glial reaction. Its functional role in the vestibular compensation process remains to be elucidated.
Adult hippocampal neurogenesis has been linked to learning but details of the relationship between neuronal production and memory formation remain unknown. Using low dose irradiation to inhibit adult hippocampal neurogenesis we show that new neurons aged 4-28 days old at the time of training are required for long-term memory in a spatial version of the water maze. This effect of irradiation was specific since long-term memory for a visibly cued platform remained intact. Furthermore, irradiation just before or after water maze training had no effect on learning or long-term memory. Relationships between learning and new neuron survival, as well as proliferation, were investigated but found non-significant. These results suggest a new role for adult neurogenesis in the formation and/or consolidation of long-term, hippocampus-dependent, spatial memories.
Several studies have reported a role for the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) in learning and synaptic plasticity. Many of them suggest that the NAcc is involved in translating cortico-limbic information to the motor system mediating spatial learning and memory processes. Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that protein kinase C is activated following training in a food search spatial learning task. The present study further characterizes the molecular substrates associated with NAcc-dependent spatial behavior. The cyclic AMP-response element binding protein (CREB), a transcription factor implicated in the formation of long-term memory, was studied in the NAcc following spatial training in a food search spatial learning task. Western blots were performed to detect phosphorylated (activated) and total CREB protein levels. Our results show that CREB is significantly phosphorylated in the NAcc 48 h after habituation and at 5 min and 1 h after the first spatial training session in comparison with the naive animals that remained in their home cages. Since published data show that NAcc plays a role in novelty detection and reactivity, we conducted further experiments in order to dissociate the effect on CREB phosphorylation and expression of spatial novelty (single exposure), exploration, and spatial learning in the food search apparatus. Results show that CREB phosphorylation is significantly increased 48 h after exposure to a novel environment. The present study suggests that CREB phosphorylation observed in the NAcc during habituation and spatial training may be mainly triggered by detection of spatial novelty.
Quantitative morphology of the CNS has recently undergone major developments. In particular, several new approaches, known as design-based stereologic methods, have become available and have been successfully applied to neuromorphological research. However, much confusion and uncertainty remains about the meaning, implications, and advantages of these design-based stereologic methods. The objective of this review is to provide some clarification. It does not comprise a full description of all stereologic methods available. Rather, it is written by users for users, provides the reader with a guided tour through the relevant literature. It has been the experience of the authors that most neuroscientists potentially interested in design-based stereology need to analyze volumes of brain regions, numbers of cells (neurons, glial cells) within these brain regions, mean volumes (nuclear, perikaryal) of these cells, length densities of linear biological structures such as vessels and nerve fibers within brain regions, and the cytoarchitecture of brain regions (i.e. the spatial distribution of cells within a region of interest). Therefore, a comprehensive introduction to design-based stereologic methods for estimating these parameters is provided. It is demonstrated that results obtained with design-based stereology are representative for the entire brain region of interest, and are independent of the size, shape, spatial orientation, and spatial distribution of the cells to be investigated. Also, it is shown that bias (i.e. systematic error) in results obtained with design-based stereology can be limited to a minimum, and that it is possible to assess the variability of these results. These characteristics establish the advantages of design-based stereologic methods in quantitative neuromorphology.
Hypocretin/orexin (Hcrt/Orx) and melanin concentrating hormone (MCH) are peptides contained in overlapping cell groups of the lateral hypothalamus and commonly involved in regulating sleep-wake states and energy balance, though likely in different ways. To see if these neurons are similarly or differentially modulated by neurotransmitters of the major brainstem arousal systems, the effects of noradrenaline (NA) and carbachol, a cholinergic agonist, were examined on identified Hcrt/Orx and MCH neurons in rat hypothalamic slices. Whereas both agonists depolarized and excited Hcrt/Orx neurons, they both hyperpolarized MCH neurons by direct postsynaptic actions. According to the activity profiles of the noradrenergic locus coeruleus and cholinergic pontomesencephalic neurons across the sleep-waking cycle, the Hcrt/Orx neurons would be excited by NA and acetylcholine (ACh) and thus active during arousal, whereas the MCH neurons would be inhibited by NA and ACh and thus inactive during arousal while disinhibited and possibly active during slow wave sleep. According to the present pharmacological results, Hcrt/Orx neurons may thus stimulate arousal in tandem with other arousal systems, whereas MCH neurons may function in opposition with other arousal systems and thus potentially dampen arousal to promote sleep.
The daily rhythm of melatonin synthesis in the rat pineal gland is controlled by the central biological clock, located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), via a multi-synaptic pathway involving, successively, neurones of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), sympathetic preganglionic neurones of the intermediolateral cell column of the spinal cord, and norepinephrine containing sympathetic neurones of the superior cervical ganglion. Recently, we showed that, in the rat, the SCN uses a combination of daytime inhibitory and nighttime stimulatory signals toward the PVN-pineal pathway in order to control the daily rhythm of melatonin synthesis, GABA being responsible for the daytime inhibitory message and glutamate for the nighttime stimulation. The present study was initiated to further check this concept, and to investigate the involvement of the inhibitory SCN output in the early morning circadian decline of melatonin release, with the hypothesis that, at dawn, the increased release of GABA onto pre-autonomic PVN neurones results in a diminished norepinephrine stimulation of the pineal, and ultimately an arrest of melatonin release. First, we established that prolonged norepinephrine stimulation of the pineal gland was indeed sufficient to prevent the early morning decline of melatonin release. Blockade of GABA-ergic signaling in the PVN at dawn could not prevent the early morning decline of melatonin completely. Therefore, these results show that an increased GABAergic inhibition of the PVN neurones that control the sympathetic innervation of the pineal gland, at dawn, is not sufficient to explain the early morning decline of melatonin release.
The motor output of hypoglossal motoneurons to tongue muscles takes place in concert with the respiratory rhythm and is determined by the balance between excitatory glutamatergic transmission and inhibitory transmission mediated by glycine or GABA. The relative contribution by these transmitters is a phasic phenomenon modulated by other transmitters. We examined how metabotropic muscarinic receptors, widely expressed in the brainstem where they excite cranial motor nuclei, might influence synaptic activity mediated by GABA or glycine. For this purpose, using thin slices of the neonatal rat brainstem, we recorded (under whole-cell patch clamp) glycinergic or GABAergic responses from visually identified hypoglossal motoneurons after pharmacological block of glutamatergic transmission. Muscarine inhibited spontaneous and electrically induced events mediated by GABA or glycine. The amplitude of glycinergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents was slightly reduced by muscarine, while GABAergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents were unaffected. Motoneuron currents induced by focally applied GABA and glycine were depressed by muscarine with stronger reduction in glycine-mediated responses. Histochemical observations indicated the presence of M1, M2 and M5 subtypes of muscarinic receptors in the neonatal hypoglossal nucleus. These results suggest that muscarine potently depressed inhibitory neurotransmission on brainstem motoneurons, and that this action was exerted via preterminal and extrasynaptic receptors. Since the large reduction in inhibitory neurotransmission may contribute to overall excitation of brainstem motoneurons by muscarinic receptors, these data might help to understand the central components of action of antimuscarinic agents in preanesthetic medication or against motion sickness.
By optical imaging of intrinsic signals, we demonstrated a possible code for odor concentration in the anterior piriform cortex of the guinea-pig. Odor-induced cortical activation, which primarily originated in layer II, appeared in a narrow band beneath the rhinal sulcus over the lateral olfactory tract, corresponding to the dorsal part of the anterior piriform cortex. Lower concentrations activated the rostral region of the band, whereas higher ones generated caudally spreading activation, and the site at which neural activation reached its maximum extent depended upon odor concentration. Different odors with low concentrations generated distinct but somewhat overlapping patterns in the rostral region of the band; the limited extent of cortical activity may be one focal domain for each odor. It was hard to judge, however, that odor-specific domains appeared in the anterior piriform cortex, because the strong stimuli induced largely overlapping patterns. Furthermore, the total area activated increased in proportion to concentrations raised to a power of 0.5-0.9. Importantly, these imaging results were confirmed with unit recordings which indicated a rostro-caudal gradient in odor-sensitivity among cortical neurons. Our results suggest that the dorsal part of the anterior piriform cortex may be associated with odor concentration. Therefore, in addition to recruitment of more olfactory sensory cells and glomeruli in response to stronger stimuli, a rostro-caudal gradient in axonal projections from mitral/tufted cells and/or in association fibers may play an important role in odor-concentration coding in the anterior piriform cortex.

The activation of the delta-opioid receptors in the nucleus accumbens is known to induce a large and rapid increase of accumbal dopamine efflux. (+/-)-TAN-67 (2-methyl-4a(alpha)-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-1,2,3,4,4a,5,12,12a(alpha)-octahydro-quinolino[2,3,3,-g]isoquinoline) is a centrally acting non-peptidic delta opioid receptor agent which has recently become available. Interestingly, the (+) enantiomer of TAN-67 induces hyperalgesia in contrast to the (-) enantiomer of TAN-67 that produces profound antinociceptive effects in mice; the latter effects are mediated through delta-1 receptor stimulation. Using the microdialysis technique, the ability of the enantiomers of TAN-67 to alter the release of accumbal dopamine in vivo was analyzed. Like the 25-min infusion of the selective delta-1 opioid receptor agonist (D-[Pen2,5]-enkephalin) DPDPE (50 nM) and the delta-2 opioid receptor agonist deltorphin II (50 nM), the 25-min infusion of both (-)-TAN-67 (25 and 50 nM) and (+)-TAN-67 (25 and 50 nM) into the nucleus accumbens produced a similar transient dose-dependent increase in the accumbal extracellular dopamine level. Naloxone (1 mg/kg i.p., given 25 min prior to the drugs), namely a treatment that is known to inhibit the increase of dopamine induced by DPDPE and deltorphin II, did not affect the transient increase in the accumbal dopamine level produced by infusion of the enantiomers of TAN-67. The DPDPE and deltorphin II-induced increase in accumbal dopamine level, but not that of (-)-TAN-67 and (+)-TAN-67, was eliminated by subsequently perfused tetrodotoxin (2 microM) into the nucleus accumbens. The increase in accumbal dopamine level produced by an infusion of (-)-TAN-67 and (+)-TAN-67 was not altered by a Ca2+-free Ringer's solution. The (-)-TAN-67 and (+)-TAN-67-induced accumbal dopamine efflux was strongly prevented by reserpine (5 mg/kg i.p., given 24 h earlier) or alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine (250 mg/kg i.p., given 2 h earlier). The effects of the enantiomers of TAN-67 on the accumbal dopamine were nullified by combined treatment with reserpine and alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine. The (-)-TAN-induced dopamine efflux was significantly reduced by the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists ifenprodil (20 mg/kg i.p., 20 min before) and MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg i.p., 20 min before), respectively. The effects of (-)-TAN-67 on the dopamine efflux were also inhibited by the free radical scavenger N-2-mercaptopropionyl glycine (100 mg/kg i.p., 20 min before). These results show that both enantiomers of TAN-67 enhance the release of reserpine sensitive, vesicular dopamine and alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine sensitive, cytosolic dopamine from dopaminergic nerve terminals in the nucleus accumbens in a way that is independent of neural activity; activation of delta opioid receptors plays no role in these events. All together, the results suggest that (-)-TAN-67 can generate a burst of free radicals that in turn trigger a release of glutamate that ultimately via activation of NMDA receptors enhances the release of dopamine from dopaminergic nerve terminals in the nucleus accumbens.
The cerebellum of the reeler mutant mouse has an abnormal organization; its single lobule is composed of a severely hypogranular cortex and a central cerebellar mass (CCM) consisting of Purkinje cell clusters intermixing with the cerebellar nuclei. As such the reeler represents an excellent model in which to examine the effect of the abnormal distribution of cerebellar cells on afferent-target relationships. To this effect we studied the organization of the spinocerebellar and secondary vestibulocerebellar afferent projections in homozygous reeler mice (rl/rl) using anterograde tracing techniques. Spinal cord injections resulted in labeled spinocerebellar mossy fiber rosettes in specific anterior and posterior regions of the cerebellar cortex. Some vestiges of parasagittal organization may be present in the anterior projection area. Within the CCM, labeled fibers appeared to terminate on distinct groups of Purkinje cells. Thus, the spinocerebellar mossy fibers seem to form both normal and heterologous synapses in the reeler cerebellum. Secondary vestibular injections resulted in both retrograde and anterograde labeling. Retrograde labeling was seen in clusters of Purkinje cells and cerebellar nuclear cells; anterograde labeling was distributed in the white matter and in specific regions of the anterior and posterior cortex of the cerebellum. The labeled spinocerebellar and secondary vestibulocerebellar afferents overlapped in the anterior region but in the posterior region the vestibulocerebellar termination area was ventral to the spinocerebellar area. An area devoid of labeled terminals was also observed ventral to the posterior secondary vestibulocerebellar termination field. Using calretinin immunostaining it was determined that this area contains unipolar brush cells, a cell type found primarily in the vestibulocerebellum of normal mice. Our data indicate that despite of the lack of known landmarks (fissures, lobules) the spinocerebellar and vestibulocerebellar afferent projections in the reeler cerebellum do not distribute randomly but have specific target regions, and the position of these regions, relative to each other, appears to be conserved. Two caveats to this were the finding of overlapping terminal fields of these afferents in the anterior region, and a posteroventral region that contains unipolar brush cells yet is devoid of secondary vestibulocerebellar afferents. The distribution of Purkinje cells and cerebellar nuclear cells is not random either; those that give rise to cerebellovestibular efferents form distinct groups within the central cerebellar mass.
Sex hormones including estrogen, progesterone and testosterone can influence breathing. However, it is not clear whether such hormones exert their effects directly on respiratory motoneurons. We used immunocytochemistry to demonstrate that estrogen receptor alpha, estrogen receptor beta and androgen receptor are localized in respiratory motor neurons. Motoneurons in the hypoglossal (XII) and the phrenic nuclei were retrogradely labeled from the tongue and the diaphragm respectively. Double-label fluorescence immunocytochemistry was used to show that sex hormone receptors are present in respiratory motoneurons of both male and female rats. These data suggest that in male and female rats, sex hormones can modulate the output of respiratory motoneurons directly.
The angiotensin II AT-1A receptor (AT-1A) is the major mediator of the hypertensive actions of angiotensin II (ANG II) in the medial nucleus of the solitary tract (mNTS). The localization of the AT-1A receptor at surface or intracellular sites is an important determinant of its signaling properties, including intercellular or intracrine communication. However, the spatial localization of this protein, particularly within small distal or intermediate size dendrites of mNTS neurons, is unknown. Within the mNTS, ANG II and catecholamines interact in the regulation of autonomic function; however, it is unknown if AT-1A receptors are present at functional sites in catecholamine containing dendrites, or are contacted by catecholamine containing axon terminals. We compared surface and intracellular distributions of the AT-1A receptor in dendritic processes from the mNTS using immunogold electron microscopy in conjunction with immunoperoxidase labeling for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and morphometric analysis. Collapsed across all AT-1A-labeled dendritic profiles, immunogold labeling was more frequent in intracellular sites as compared with the plasma membrane. Small (&lt;0.6 microm) dendritic profiles contained a higher ratio of particles associated with the surface membrane when compared with larger profiles. Approximately 27% of all AT-1A receptor-labeled dendritic profiles also contained labeling for TH. Approximately 12% of dendritic profiles single labeled for the AT-1A receptor were contacted by TH containing axons or axon terminals. The present results provide the first quantitative demonstration of select plasmalemmal and intracellular localizations of AT-1A receptors in dendritic processes of mNTS neurons, including those containing TH, or contacted by catecholaminergic axon terminals. These results suggest that AT-1A receptors are positioned for modulation of catecholamine signaling in the mNTS.
Intracerebral injections of ibotenic acid in neonatal mice produced white and gray matter lesions that mimic some aspects of the acquired cerebral injuries observed in human newborns (i.e. periventricular leukomalacias in preterm newborns and post-ischemic cortical necrosis in at term infants). We have evaluated the effects of tissue plasminogen activator inactivation (t-PA-/-) on the effects of ibotenic acid (0.01-20 microg), and on F4/80 labeling of microglia/macrophages at different stages. Three ontogenic periods have been identified. In mice injected the day of birth, postnatal (P) day 0, ibotenic acid induced neuronal migration disorders together with low local microglial activation in wild-type and t-PA-/- mice. In P2 and P5 mice, ibotenic acid induced diffuse microglial activation in the whole cortex and subcortical areas; e.g. caudate nucleus and septum. In wild-type mice, cystic lesions of the white matter were consistently observed, surrounded by macrophages. In t-PA-/- mice, noncystic lesions filled of macrophages were more frequent than cysts. Macrophages were virtually absent in the gray matter. White and gray matter lesions were reduced in t-PA-/- mice. The plasmin inhibitor aprotinin reduced white and gray matter lesions only in wild-type mice injected with high ibotenic acid doses (2.5-5 microg). During this period, a transient F4/80 immunoreactive cell population was detected in the cingulum. At P10, the salient lesion characteristic was a large gray matter lesion containing macrophage accumulation. Microglial activation was confined to the injection site in the white matter. t-PA-/- mice showed reduced lesion size under high doses (&gt;5 microg) of ibotenic acid. Similarly, aprotinin diminished the lesion in wild-type animals exposed to 10 microg ibotenic acid. These data demonstrate that t-PA and microglia do not actively participate in the migration disorders induced in P0 mice. Conversely, t-PA was implicated in cyst formation in older (P2-P10) mice, and in their subsequent growth. t-PA was also involved in GM lesions, probably through an inflammatory process involving macrophages.
Newly developed insulin-sensitizing agents, which target the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma have recently been appreciated to exhibit potent anti-inflammatory actions. Since stroke is associated with an intense inflammatory response, we reasoned that these agents may ameliorate injury from stroke. We report that administration of troglitazone or pioglitazone 24 h before and at the time of cerebral infarction dramatically reduced infarction volume and improved neurological function following middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. Furthermore, we find that delayed therapy also significantly reduced infarct volume. The brains of the drug-treated animals displayed reduced inflammation as evidenced by decreased immunoreactivity for microglial/macrophage markers and reduced protein and mRNA for interleukin-1beta, cyclooxygenase-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase. We argue that the beneficial effects of these drugs are likely due to reduced expression of these inflammatory mediators, which are known to exacerbate ischemic injury following stroke. These results are of particular relevance to diabetic patients chronically treated with these agents who may benefit from the neuroprotective actions of these drugs.
Although both active and passive beta-amyloid (Abeta) immunotherapy have been shown to protect against or lessen cognitive impairment in various Alzheimer's transgenic mouse lines, these studies have focused on a single task and involved standard statistical analysis. Because Alzheimer's disease impacts multiple cognitive domains, the current study employed an extensive behavioral battery and multimetric analysis therein to determine the impact of Abeta immunization given throughout most of adult life (from 2-16 1/2 months of age) to APP+PS1 transgenic mice. At both adult (4 1/2-6 month) and aged (15-16 1/2 month) test points, the same 6-week behavioral battery was administered. Results indicate that Abeta immunotherapy partially or completely protected APP+PS1 mice at both test points from otherwise impaired performance in a variety of tasks spanning multiple cognitive domains (reference learning/memory, working memory, search/recognition). At both adult and aged test points, the cognitive benefits of Abeta immunotherapy were evident even when behavioral measures were analyzed collectively (as &quot;overall&quot; performance) through discriminant function analysis. Since behavioral protection at the 15-16 1/2 month test point occurred without a decrease in (or correlation to) Abeta deposition, the mechanism of Abeta immunotherapy's action most likely involves neutralization/removal of small Abeta oligomers from the brain. However, in factor analysis performed at this aged test point, brain Abeta deposition measures loaded heavily with key cognitive measures. Collectively, our results suggest that the entire process of Abeta deposition deleteriously impacts cognitive performance and that Abeta-based preventative strategies can provide long-term cognitive benefits extending well into older age.
Accumulating evidences indicate that ceramide is closely involved in apoptotic cell death in neurodegenerative disorders and aging. We examined ceramide levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or brain tissues from patients with neurodegenerative disorders and the mechanism of how intra- and extracellular ceramide was regulated during neuronal apoptosis. We screened the ceramide levels in the CSF of patients with neurodegenerative disorders, and found that ceramide was significantly increased in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) than in patients with age-matched amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and other neurological controls. With immunohistochemistry in AD brains, ceramide was aberrantly expressed in astroglia in the frontal cortices, but not detected in ALS and control brains. To explore for the regulation of ceramide in astroglia in Alzheimer's disease brains, we examined the metabolism of ceramide during neuronal apoptosis. In retinoic acid (RA)-induced neuronal apoptosis, RA slightly increased de novo synthesis of ceramide, but interestingly, RA dramatically inhibited conversion of [14C] ceramide to glucosylceramide (GlcCer), suggesting that the increase of ceramide mass is mainly due to inhibition of the ceramide-metabolizing enzyme GlcCer synthase. In addition, a significant increase of the [14C] ceramide level in the culture medium was detected by chasing and turnover experiments without alteration of extracellular [14C] sphingomyelin levels. A 2.5-fold increase of ceramide mass in the supernatant was also detected after 48 h of treatment with RA. These results suggest a regulatory mechanism of intracellular ceramide through inhibition of GlcCer synthase and a possible role of ceramide as an extracellular/intercellular mediator for neuronal apoptosis. The increased ceramide level in the CSF from AD patients, which may be derived from astroglia, raises a possibility of neuronal apoptosis by the response to intercellular ceramide in AD.
The majority of hippocampal neurons in dissociated cultures and in intact brain exhibit clustering of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) into spherical structures with an average diameter of 110 nm when subjected to conditions that mimic ischemia and excitotoxicity [Neuroscience 106 (2001) 69]. Because clustering of CaMKII would reduce its effective concentration within the neuron, it may represent a cellular strategy to prevent excessive CaMKII-mediated phosphorylation during episodes of Ca2+ overload. Here we employ a relatively mild excitatory stimulus to promote sub-maximal clustering for the purpose of studying the conditions for the formation and disappearance of CaMKII clusters. Treatment with 30 microM N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) for 2 min produced CaMKII clustering in approximately 15% of dissociated hippocampal neurons in culture, as observed by pre-embedding immunogold electron microscopy. These CaMKII clusters could be labeled with antibodies specific to the phospho form (Thr286) of CaMKII, suggesting that at least some of the CaMKII molecules in clusters are autophosphorylated. To test whether phosphorylation is involved in the formation and maintenance of CaMKII clusters, the phosphatase inhibitors calyculin A (5 nM) or okadaic acid (1 microM) were included in the incubation medium. With inhibitors more neurons exhibited CaMKII clusters in response to 2 min NMDA treatment. Furthermore, 5 min after the removal of NMDA and Ca2+, CaMKII clusters remained and could still be labeled with the phospho-specific antibody. In contrast, in the absence of phosphatase inhibitors, no clusters were detected 5 min after the removal of NMDA and Ca2+ from the medium. These results suggest that phosphatases type 1 and/or 2A regulate the formation and disappearance of CaMKII clusters.
Secondary damage after spinal cord (SC) injury remains without a clinically effective drug treatment. To explore the neuroprotective effects of cell-permeable reduced glutathione monoethyl ester (GSHE), rats subjected to SC contusion using the New York University impactor were randomly assigned to receive intraperitoneally GSHE (total dose of 12 mg/kg), methylprednisolone sodium succinate (total dose of 120 mg/kg), or saline solution as vehicle. Motor function, assessed using the Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan scale for 8 weeks, was significantly better in GSHE (11.2+/-0.6, mean+/-S.E.M., n=8, at 8 weeks) than methylprednisolone (9.3+/-0.6) and vehicle (9.4+/-0.7) groups. The number of neurons in the red nuclei labeled with FluoroRuby placed caudally to the injury site was significantly higher in GSHE (158+/-9.3 mean+/-S.E.M., n=4) compared with methylprednisolone (53+/-14.7) and vehicle (46+/-16.4) groups. Differences in the amount of spared SC tissue at the epicenter and neighboring areas were not significant among experimental groups. In a second series of experiments, using similar treatment groups (n=6), regional changes in microvascular SC blood flow were evaluated for 100 min by laser-Doppler flowmetry after clip compression injury. SC blood flow fell in vehicle-treated rats 20% below baseline and increased significantly with methylprednisolone approximately 12% above baseline; changes were not greater than 5% in rats given GSHE. In conclusion, GSHE given to rats early after moderate SC contusion/compression improves functional outcome and red nuclei neuron survival significantly better than methylprednisolone and vehicle, and stabilizes SC blood flow. These results support further investigation of reduced glutathione supplementation after acute SC injury for future clinical application.
Ataxia may result from various cerebellar cortex dysfunctions. It is included in the diagnostic criteria of Angelman syndrome, a human neurogenetic condition. In order to better understand the cerebellar dysfunction in this condition, we recorded in vivo cerebellar activity in a mouse model of Angelman syndrome produced by null mutation of the maternal Ube3a gene. We found fast oscillation (approximately 160 Hz) in the cerebellar cortex sustained by abnormally increased Purkinje cell firing rate and rhythmicity. This oscillation is inhibited by sensory stimulation and gap junction or GABA(A) receptor blockers. A physiologically similar oscillation was previously found in mice lacking calcium-binding proteins that also present ataxia, but never in wild-type mice. We propose that fast oscillation in the cerebellar cortex is implicated in the cerebellar symptomatology of Angelman syndrome.
Injury to the adult CNS often involves death of motoneurons, resulting in the paralysis and progressive atrophy of muscle. There is no effective therapy to replace motoneurons in the CNS. Our strategy to replace neurons and to rescue denervated muscles is to transplant dissociated embryonic day 14-15 (E14-15) ventral spinal cord cells into the distal stump of a peripheral nerve near the denervated muscles. Here, we test whether long-term delivery of two pharmacological inhibitors to denervated muscle, FK506 or SB203580, enhances reinnervation of muscle from embryonic cells transplanted in the tibial nerve of adult Fischer rats. FK506, SB203580 (2.5 mg/kg) or saline was delivered under the fascia of the medial gastrocnemius muscle for 4 weeks, beginning when muscles were denervated by section of the sciatic nerve. After 1 week of nerve degeneration, one million E14-15 ventral spinal cord cells were transplanted into the distal tibial nerve stump of each rat in the three treatment groups. Ten weeks later, all cell transplants had neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN) positive neurons. Neuron survival and axon regeneration were similar across treatments. An average (+/-S.E.) of 210+/-66, 100+/-36 and 176+/-58 myelinated axons grew distally from the cell transplants of rats with muscles treated with FK506, SB203580 or saline, respectively. Regenerating axons in muscles of all three treatments groups were detected with antibodies against phosphorylated neurofilaments and synaptophysin, and motor end plates were labeled with alpha-bungarotoxin. Muscles of rats that received transplants of media only had no axon growth, indicating that the muscles were denervated. The mean muscle fiber areas of rats that received cell transplants and had long-term delivery of FK506, SB203580 or saline to muscles were significantly larger than those of denervated muscle fibers. Thus, cell transplantation reduced muscle atrophy. Transplantation of embryonic cells also resulted in functional muscle reinnervation. Electromyographic activity and force were evoked from &gt;90% of the muscles of rats with cell transplants, but not from denervated muscles. FK506-treated muscles were significantly more fatigue resistant than naive control muscles. FK506-treated muscles also had significantly stronger motor units than those in SB203580 or saline-treated muscles. These data suggest that a pathway regulated by FK506 improves the function of muscles reinnervated by embryonic neurons placed in peripheral nerve.
The immediate-early gene zenk (an acronym for the avian orthologue of the mammalian genes zif-268, egr-1, ngfi-a and krox-24) has been extensively employed, in studies on oscine birds, as a marker of neuronal activity to reveal forebrain structures that are involved in the memory processes associated with the acquisition, perception and production of song. Audition-induced expression of this gene, in brain, has also recently been reported for the domestic chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus) and the Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica). Whilst the anatomical distribution of zenk expression was described for the quail, corresponding data for the chicken were not reported. We have, therefore, used in situ hybridisation to localise the mRNA that encodes the product of the zenk gene (which we call ZENK) within the brain of the 1-day-old chick. We demonstrate that this transcript is present in a number of forebrain structures including the medio-rostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale (MNH), a region that has been strongly implicated in auditory imprinting (which is a form of recognition memory), and Field L, the avian analog of the mammalian auditory cortex. Because of this pattern of gene expression, we have compared the level of the ZENK mRNA in chicks that have been subjected to a 30-min acoustic imprinting paradigm and in untrained controls. Our results reveal a significant increase (P&lt; or =0.05) in the level of the ZENK mRNA in MNH and Field L, and in the two forebrain hemispheres; no increase was seen in the ectostriatum, which is a visual projection area. The data obtained implicate the immediate-early gene, zenk, in auditory imprinting, which is an established model of juvenile learning. In addition, our results indicate that the ZENK mRNA may be used as a molecular marker for MNH, a region that is difficult to anatomically and histochemically delineate.
Middle cerebral artery (MCA) stroke in the rat produces impairments in skilled movements. The lesion damages lateral neocortex but spares primary motor cortex (M1), raising the question of the origin of skilled movement deficits. Here, the behavioral deficits of MCA stroke were identified and then M1 was examined neurophysiologically and neuroanatomically. Rats were trained on a food skilled reaching task then the lateral frontal cortex was damaged by unilateral MCA electrocoagulation contralateral to the reaching forelimb. Reach testing and training on two tasks was conducted over 30 post-surgical days. Later, M1 and the corticospinal tract were investigated using intracortical microstimulation (ICMS), anterograde and retrograde axon tracing. A skilled reaching impairment was observed post-surgery, which partly recovered with time and training. ICMS revealed a diminished forelimb movement representation in MCA rats, but a face representation comparable in size to sham rats. Anterograde and retrograde tract tracing suggest that M1 efferents were intact. Although M1 appears to be in the main anatomically spared after MCA stroke its function as assessed electrophysiologically and behaviorally is disrupted.
Various types of learning, including operant conditioning, induce an increase in cellular activation concomitant with an increase in local cerebral glucose utilization (LCGU). This increase is mediated by increased cerebral blood flow or changes in brain capillary density and diameter. Because glucose transporters are ultimately responsible for glucose uptake, we examined their plastic expression in response to cellular activation. In vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated that cerebral glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) expression consistently parallels changes in LCGU. The present study is the first to investigate the effect of memory processing on glucose transporters expression. Changes in GLUT expression produced by training in an operant conditioning task were measured in the brain of CD1 mice. Using semi-quantitative immunohistochemistry, Western blot and real time RT-PCR the cerebral GLUT1 and GLUT3 expression was quantified immediately, 220 min and 24 h following training. Relative to sham-trained and naive controls, operant conditioning training induced an immediate increase in GLUT1 immunoreactivity level in the hippocampus CA1 pyramidal cells as well as in the sensorimotor cortex. At longer post-learning delays, GLUT1 immunoreactivity decreased in the sensorimotor cortex and putamen. Parallel to the changes in protein levels, hippocampus GLUT1 mRNA level also increased immediately following learning. No effect of learning was found on hippocampal GLUT3 protein or mRNA expression. Measures of changes in glucose transporters expression present a link between cellular activation and glucose metabolism. The learning-induced localized increases in GLUT1 protein as well as mRNA levels observed in the present study confirm the previous findings that GLUT1 expression is plastic and respond to changes in cellular metabolic demands.
Recent studies have demonstrated that the postnatal development of connections between the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) mature around postnatal days 13-15 (pd13-15), whereas these between the BLA and other structures such as the nucleus accumbens and the mediodorsal thalamus are completed by pd7. Accordingly, it is hypothesized that mPFC cytoarchitecture and hence its function may be specifically affected by neonatal (i.e. on pd7) but not later induced (i.e. on pd21) damage to the BLA. To test this hypothesis, rats received excitotoxic lesions to the BLA on either pd7 or pd21 and were subjected to two tests putatively sensitive to mPFC dysfunction, namely food hoarding and spontaneous alternation. In addition, rats were tested for spatial learning and memory, to determine any possible effects on hippocampal function. Consistent with the documented effects of mPFC lesions, pd7 damage to the BLA impaired spontaneous alternation and food hoarding performance, an effect that was not found in rats with BLA lesions induced on pd21. Spatial learning and memory, however, were not affected by the (neonatal) lesion procedure. Together, these results indicate that neonatal BLA damage affects species-specific sequential behavior and flexibility, which may be attributed to abnormal functioning of the mPFC.
Our understanding of the role played by neurotransmitter receptors in the developing brain has advanced in recent years. The major excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters in the brain, glutamate and GABA, activate both ionotropic (ligand-gated ion channels) and metabotropic (G protein-coupled) receptors, and are generally associated with neuronal communication in the mature brain. However, before the emergence of their role in neurotransmission in adulthood, they also act to influence earlier developmental events, some of which occur prior to synapse formation: such as proliferation, migration, differentiation or survival processes during neural development. To fulfill these actions in the constructing of the nervous system, different types of glutamate and GABA receptors need to be expressed both at the right time and at the right place. The identification by molecular cloning of 16 ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits, eight metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes, 21 ionotropic and two metabotropic GABA receptor subunits, some of which exist in alternatively splice variants, has enriched our appreciation of how molecular diversity leads to functional diversity in the brain. It now appears that many different types of glutamate and GABA receptor subunits have prominent expression in the embryonic and/or postnatal brain, whereas others are mainly present in the adult brain. Although the significance of this differential expression of subunits is not fully understood, it appears that the change in subunit composition is essential for normal development in particular brain regions. This review focuses on emerging information relating to the expression and role of glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmitter receptors during prenatal and postnatal development.
Far from disproving the model of mind functioning proposed by psychoanalysis, the recent advances in neuropsychiatrical research confirmed the crucial ideas of Sigmund Freud. The hypothesis that the origin of mental illnesses lies in the impossibility for a subject to erase the long-term effects of a remote adverse event is in tune with the view that several psychiatric disturbances reflect the activation of aberrant unconscious memory processes. Freud's insights did not stop here, but went on to describe in an extremely precise manner the neural mechanisms of memory formation almost a century before the description of long-term synaptic potentiation.
Muscle atonia is a central feature of adult REM sleep which has recently been demonstrated to be a component of sleep in rats as young as 2 days of age (P2). The neural generation of atonia, which depends on mesopontine and medullary structures, is not fully understood in adults and has never been described in infants. In the present experiments we used electrical stimulation in decerebrated pups to identify an inhibitory area within the medial medulla of P7-10 rats. Muscle tone inhibition was consistently found on or near the midline within the ventromedial medulla, dorsal to the inferior olive, in an area that includes the nucleus gigantocellularis, nucleus paramedianus, and raphe obscurus. Chemical infusions in the same region revealed inhibitory responses to quisqualic acid but not to carbachol or corticotropin-releasing factor. Next, extracellular recordings within the medullary inhibitory area revealed neurons with atonia-on profiles; tone-on neurons were also found, typically at more lateral sites. Finally, in non-decerebrated pups, chemical lesions within the inhibitory area resulted in significant reductions in atonia durations, as well as decoupling of atonia from a second component of infant sleep, myoclonic twitching; specifically, twitches occasionally occurred during periods of high muscle tone, a condition reminiscent of &quot;REM without atonia&quot; as described in adults. In summary, we document the existence of an area within the ventromedial medulla of infant rats that (i) causes atonia when stimulated; (ii) contains units that exhibit atonia-related discharge profiles during sleep-wake cycling; and (iii) when lesioned, results in the partial loss of atonia and decoupling of the components of sleep. All together, these findings demonstrate that muscle atonia is actively regulated very early in ontogeny.
Recognition of individual conspecifics is important for social behavior and requires the formation of memories for individually distinctive social signals. Individual recognition is often mediated by olfactory cues in mammals, especially nocturnal rodents such as golden hamsters. In hamsters, this form of recognition requires main olfactory system input to the lateral entorhinal cortex (LEnt). Here, we tested whether neurons in LEnt and the nearby ventral subiculum (VS) would show cellular correlates of this natural form of recognition memory. Two hundred ninety single neurons were recorded from both superficial (SE) and deep layers of LEnt (DE) and VS while male hamsters investigated volatile odorants from female vaginal secretions. Many neurons encoded differences between female's odors with many discriminating between odors from different individual females but not between different odor samples from the same female. Other neurons discriminated between odor samples from one female and generalized across collections from other females. LEnt and VS neurons showed enhanced or suppressed cellular activity during investigation of previously presented odors and in response to novel odors. A majority of SE neurons decreased firing to odor repetition and increased activity to novel odors. In contrast, DE neurons often showed suppressed activity in response to novel odors. Thus, neurons in LEnt and VS of male hamsters encode information that is critical for the identification and recognition of individual females by odor cues. This study reveals cellular mechanisms in LEnt and VS that may mediate a natural form of recognition memory in hamsters. These neuronal responses were similar to those observed in rats and monkeys during performance in standard recognition memory tasks. Consequently, the present data extend our understanding of the cellular basis for recognition memory and suggest that individual recognition requires similar neural mechanisms as those employed in laboratory tests of recognition memory.
Interactions between olfactory cortices and the hippocampus support sensory discrimination and spatial learning functions. The olfactory input accesses the hippocampal formation via a polysynaptic pathway mediated by the lateral and rostral entorhinal cortex (EC). We recently demonstrated that following repetitive stimulation of the lateral olfactory tract (LOT) at 2-8 Hz, a delayed response (onset at circa 60 ms) was evoked in the caudal portion of the EC, identified as medial EC, that does not receive a direct olfactory input. By performing simultaneous laminar profile analysis in the EC and in different hippocampal subfields, we conclusively demonstrate that the delayed EC response evoked by repetitive ipsilateral LOT stimulation is headed by the sequential activation of the dentate gyrus and the CA3/CA1 subfields in the septal and temporal hippocampus. Repetitive stimulation of the contralateral LOT also induced an EC response that peaked at 76.28+/-2.42 ms (n=15). Current source density analysis and time-delay analysis of simultaneous field potential laminar profiles performed from the EC and from DG, CA3 and CA1 hippocampal subfields suggested that the contralateral EC response is mainly carried by an intrahippocampal CA3-CA3 commissural pathway. Contralateral LOT stimulation also induced a later EC component (delay &gt;100 ms) generated in the superficial layers, mediated either by local associative interactions or by extrahippocampal circuits. The opportunity to activate the ipsi- and contralateral olfactory pathways in the same experiment and to record field potentials profiles simultaneously in different structures of both hemispheres in the isolated guinea-pig brain confirms that this preparation is unique and is particularly suitable for investigating the system physiology of the limbic region. The present study demonstrates that patterned stimulation of the olfactory input that mimics sniffing patterns during odor discrimination induces a diffuse activation of both ipsi- and contralateral hippocampi and ECs. The findings contribute to the understanding the physiological mechanisms that underlie associative interactions between olfactory and non-olfactory cortical inputs converging into the mesial temporal region.
Temporal and spatial characteristics of hippocampal neuronal network activation are modified during epileptiform afterdischarges. We developed a beta burst stimulation protocol to investigate subregional variations and substrates of rhythmic population spike discharges in vivo in urethane anesthetized Wistar rat hippocampus with a 14-electrode recording array and extracellular single electrode recordings. Our 64 pulse beta burst stimulation protocol was constructed from electrical pulses delivered at intervals corresponding to beta (14-25 Hz), Delta (2 Hz), and slow (0.5 Hz) frequencies. In each experiment these interleaved pulses were all repeated four times with unchanged intervals. Stimulation of either perforant path or fimbria fornix induced a prolonged afterdischarge pattern peaking at 200 Hz fast, 20 Hz beta, and 2 Hz Delta frequencies. Analysis of variance confirmed that the response pattern of the discharges remained constant regardless of the stimulation beta frequency. Within the afterdischarge the fast frequencies were restricted to independent hippocampal subfields whereas beta and slow frequencies correlated across the subfields. Current source density (CSD) analysis revealed that the original signal propagation through subfields of the hippocampus was compromised during the beta burst stimulation induced afterdischarge. In addition, the CSD profile of the epileptiform afterdischarge was consistently similar across the different experiments. Time-frequency analysis revealed that the beta frequency afterdischarge was initiated and terminated at higher gamma (30-80 Hz) frequencies. However, the alterations in the CSD profile of the hippocampus coincided with the beta frequency dominated discharges. We propose that hippocampal epileptiform activity at fast, beta and Delta frequencies represents coupled oscillators at respectively increasing spatial scales in the hippocampal neuronal network in vivo.
Taste receptor cells are primary sensory receptors utilized by the nervous system to detect the presence of gustatory stimuli in the oral cavity. These cells are particularly heterogeneous and may be divided into various subtypes based on morphological, histochemical, or physiological criteria. One example is the heterogeneous expression of neuropeptides, such as cholecystokinin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. These peptides are hypothesized to participate in the transduction processes. To pursue examination of this hypothesis, this study explored the relationship of peptide expression with two important and mostly non-overlapping transductive elements--the taste-specific G protein gustducin, involved in bitter and sweet transduction cascades, and the seven transmembrane taste receptor T1R2, hypothesized to respond to sweet compounds. Double labeling experiments were performed on taste buds of the posterior rat tongue combining immunocytochemistry for peptide expression and in situ hybridization experiments for either gustducin or T1R2 expression. Additionally, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-expression in posterior taste receptor cells was confirmed using the technique of RT-PCR. More than half (56%) of the CCK-expressing taste receptor cells co-expressed alpha-gustducin mRNA whereas far fewer (15%) co-expressed T1R2 mRNA. A majority of VIP-expressing taste receptor cells co-expressed alpha-gustducin mRNA (60%) whereas only 19% of these cells co-expressed T1R2 mRNA. More remarkable was the observation that these two peptides displayed almost identical expression patterns with these signal transduction molecules, suggesting that peptides are not randomly expressed with relation to signal transduction molecules. This observation supports the hypothesis that peptides may play roles in transduction. Further physiological exploration will be required to elucidate the nature of these roles.
TRPV2, a member of transient receptor potential ion channels, responds to high-threshold noxious heat, but neither to capsaicin nor to proton. Although TRPV2 is expressed in medium- to large-sized dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons with myelinated fibers in adult rodents, little is known about the neurotrophin dependence of TRPV2-positive neurons in the developing and adult DRGs of mice. In the present study, using immunohistochemistry, we found that TRPV2 was first expressed in DRG neurons at embryonic day (E) 11.5, when neither TRPV1 nor TRPM8 was detected yet. Double-immunofluorescence staining revealed that tyrosine kinase receptor C (TrkC) was expressed in most of TRPV2-positive DRG neurons at E11.5 and E13.5. In addition, the percentage of TRPV2-positive neurons in the total DRG neurons at E13.5 reached the same as that of adulthood. In adult DRGs, TrkC and Ret were expressed in 68% and 25% of TRPV2-positive neurons, respectively. These results suggest that TRPV2 is expressed predominantly in the NT-3-dependent subpopulation of DRG neurons throughout development and in adult mice.
Glutamate-containing pyramidal neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPfc) project to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) where they synapse on mesocorticolimbic dopamine containing cell bodies and GABA interneurons. In the present study we employed dual probe microdialysis in intact conscious rat brain to investigate the effects of intra-mPfc perfusion with a depolarising concentration of potassium chloride (KCl) (100 mM, 20 min) alone and in the presence of local GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor blockade on VTA glutamate release. Intra-mPfc KCl transiently increased VTA glutamate release (+71.48+/-14.29%, 20 min). Intra-mPfc perfusion with a concentration of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (10 microM, 120 min) did not influence the intra-mPfc KCl-induced increase in VTA glutamate release (+102.35+/-33.61%, 20 min). In contrast, intra-mPfc perfusion with a concentration of the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP35348 (100 microM, 120 min) which when given alone did not influence basal glutamate levels in the VTA was associated with an enhanced KCl-induced stimulation of VTA glutamate release (+375.19+/-89.69%, 40 min). Furthermore, this enhancement was reversed in the presence of the selective GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen (10 microM, 120 min). The present findings suggest a key role for the prefrontal cortex in the regulation of glutamate release in the VTA. Furthermore, we demonstrate a selective cortical GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition of glutamate transmission in the VTA. These findings may be important in the context of abnormalities in amino acid neurotransmission at the network level in schizophrenia.
The present study aimed at understanding the effect of FR236924, a newly synthesized linoleic acid derivative with cyclopropane rings instead of cis-double bonds, on hippocampal synaptic transmission in both the in vitro and in vivo systems. FR236924 increased the rate of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid receptor-mediated miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents, without affecting the amplitude, triggered by nicotine in CA1 pyramidal neurons of rat hippocampal slices, that is inhibited by GF109203X, a selective protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor or alpha-bungarotoxin, an inhibitor of alpha7 acetylcholine (ACh) receptors. FR236924 stimulated glutamate release from rat hippocampal slices and in the hippocampus of freely behaving rats, and the effect was also inhibited by GF109203X or alpha-bungarotoxin. FR236924 induced a transient huge potentiation followed by a long-lasting potentiation in the slope of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials recorded from the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices, and the latter effect was blocked by GF109203X or alpha-bungarotoxin. Likewise, the compound persistently facilitated hippocampal synaptic transmission in the CA1 region of the intact rat hippocampus. It is concluded from these results that FR236924 stimulates glutamate release by functionally targeting presynaptic alpha7 ACh receptors on the glutamatergic terminals under the influence of PKC, responsible for the facilitatory action on hippocampal synaptic transmission. This may provide evidence for a link between cis-unsaturated free fatty acids and presynaptic alpha7 ACh receptors in hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
Toluene, a representative member of the large class of abused inhalants, decreases neuronal activity and depresses behavior in both animals and humans. The sites of action of toluene are not completely known but recent studies suggest that ion channels that regulate neuronal excitability may be particularly sensitive. Previous studies with recombinant receptors showed that toluene decreases currents carried by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-glutamate receptors without affecting those gated by non-NMDA receptors. In addition, toluene increases currents generated by GABA and glycine receptors. In the present study, primary cultures of rat hippocampal neurons were used to investigate the effects of acute and chronic toluene exposure on native excitatory and inhibitory ligand-gated ion channels. Toluene dose-dependently inhibited NMDA-mediated currents (IC50 1.5 mM) but had no effect on responses evoked by the non-NMDA agonist kainic acid. Prolonged treatment of neurons with toluene (1 mM; 4 days) increased whole-cell responses to exogenously applied NMDA, reduced those evoked by GABA but did not alter responses generated by kainic acid. Immunoblot analysis revealed that prolonged toluene exposure increased levels of NR2A and NR2B NMDA receptor subunits with no change in NR1. Immunohistochemical analysis with confocal imaging showed that toluene-treated neurons had significant increases in the density of NR1 subunits as compared with control neurons. Toluene exposure increased the amplitude of synaptic NMDA currents and decreased those activated by GABA. The results from this study suggest that toluene induces compensatory responses in the functional expression of ion channels that regulate neuronal excitability.
The coordinated activity of specific populations of pyramidal cells and GABA-containing, local circuit neurons in the primate prefrontal cortex (PFC) appears to be critical for working memory. Different subclasses of GABA-containing neurons can be distinguished by their content of the calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin (PV) and calretinin (CR). The postsynaptic targets of PV-containing cells have been well characterized in the primate PFC, but the postsynaptic targets of CR-containing neurons in this cortical region remain unknown. In the present study, we used immuno-electron microscopy to examine the synaptic type and postsynaptic targets of CR-immunoreactive (IR) axon terminals in the superficial and deep layers of macaque monkey PFC. Labeled axon terminals formed both symmetric and asymmetric synapses. Within the superficial layers, 93% of the synapses formed by CR-IR were symmetric, whereas in the deep layers the labeled axon terminals forming synapses were more evenly divided between symmetric (57%) and asymmetric (43%). The primary postsynaptic target of these two populations of CR-IR axon terminals also differed; unlabeled dendritic shafts were the predominant target of the symmetric synapses, whereas dendritic spines were the most common target of the asymmetric synapses. In addition, the mean cross-sectional area of the terminals forming asymmetric synapses was significantly larger than that of the terminals forming symmetric synapses. The presence of CR-IR asymmetric synapses suggested that they might arise from neurons that do not utilize GABA; indeed, dual-label fluorescent immunocytochemistry revealed that a subpopulation (23%) of CR-containing neurons in monkey PFC were not GABA-IR. These findings indicate that the synaptology of CR-containing neurons is more heterogeneous than that of PV-containing cells and suggests that the contributions of CR-containing neurons to cognitive processes mediated by the PFC may be more diverse.
The circadian clock housed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) controls various circadian rhythms including daily sleep-wake cycles. Using dual tract-tracing, we recently showed that the medial preoptic area (MPA), subparaventricular zone (SPVZ) and dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH) are well positioned to relay SCN output to two key sleep-promoting nuclei, namely, the ventrolateral and median preoptic nuclei. The present study examined the possibility that these three nuclei may link the SCN with wake-regulatory neuronal groups. Biotinylated dextran-amine with or without cholera toxin B subunit was injected into selected main targets of SCN efferents; the retrograde labeling in the SCN was previously analyzed. Here, anterograde labeling was analyzed in immunohistochemically identified cholinergic, orexin/hypocretin-containing and aminergic cell groups. Tracer injections into the MPA, SPVZ and DMH resulted in moderate to dense anterograde labeling of varicose fibers in the orexin field and the tuberomammillary nucleus. The locus coeruleus, particularly the dendritic field, contained moderate anterograde labeling from the MPA and DMH. The ventral tegmental area, dorsal raphe nucleus, and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus all showed moderate anterograde labeling from the DMH. The substantia innominata showed moderate anterograde labeling from the MPA. These results suggest that the MPA, SPVZ and DMH are possible relay nuclei for indirect SCN projections not only to sleep-promoting preoptic nuclei as previously shown, but also to wake-regulatory cell groups throughout the brain. In the absence of major direct SCN projections to most of these sleep/wake-regulatory regions, indirect neuronal pathways probably play an important role in the circadian control of sleep-wake cycles and other physiological functions.
Like estrogens in female rats, androgens can affect dendritic spine density in the CA1 subfield of the male rat hippocampus [J Neurosci 23:1588 (2003)]. Previous light microscopic studies have shown that androgen receptors (ARs) are present in the nuclei of CA1 pyramidal cells. However, androgens may also exert their effects through rapid non-genomic mechanisms, possibly by binding to membranes. Thus, to investigate whether ARs are at potential extranuclear sites of ARs, antibodies to ARs were localized by light and electron microscopy in the male rat hippocampal formation. By light microscopy, AR immunoreactivity (-ir) was found in CA1 pyramidal cell nuclei and in disperse, punctate processes that were most dense in the pyramidal cell layer. Additionally, diffuse AR-ir was found in the mossy fiber pathway. Ultrastructural analysis revealed AR-ir at several extranuclear sites in all hippocampal subregions. AR-ir was found in dendritic spines, many arising from pyramidal and granule cell dendrites. AR-ir was associated with clusters of small, synaptic vesicles within preterminal axons and axon terminals. Labeled preterminal axons were most prominent in stratum lucidum of the CA3 region. AR-containing terminals formed asymmetric synapses or did not form synaptic junctions in the plane of section analyzed. AR-ir also was detected in astrocytic profiles, many of which apposed terminals synapsing on unlabeled dendritic spines or formed gap junctions with other AR-labeled or unlabeled astrocytes. Collectively, these results suggest that ARs may serve as both a genomic and non-genomic transducer of androgen action in the hippocampal formation.
The present study describes the cortical input into the motor cortical larynx area. The retrograde tracer horseradish peroxidase-conjugated wheat germ agglutinin was injected into the electrophysiologically identified motor cortical larynx area in three rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). Retrogradely labeled cells were found in the surrounding premotor cortex (areas 6V and 6D), primary motor cortex (area 4), primary somatosensory cortex (areas 3, 1 and 2), anterior and posterior secondary somatosensory cortex and the probable homologue of Broca's area (areas 44 and 45); furthermore, labeling was found in the supplementary motor area, anterior and posterior cingulate cortex (areas 24 and 23), prefrontal and orbital frontal cortex (areas 8A, 46V, 47/12L, 47/12O, 13), agranular, dysgranular and granular insula as well as in the cortex within the upper bank of the middle third of the superior temporal sulcus (area TPO). The majority of these regions are reciprocally connected with the motor cortical larynx area [Brain Res 949 (2000) 23]. The laryngeal motor cortical input is discussed in relation to the connections of other motor cortical areas and its role in vocal control.
In three rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta), the inferior motor cortex was explored by electrical stimulation for sites yielding vocal fold adduction. The retrograde tracer wheat germ-agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase was injected into the effective sites. Within the forebrain, retrogradely labeled cells were found in the claustrum, basal nucleus of Meynert, substantia innominata, extended amygdala, lateral and posterior hypothalamic area, field H of Forel, and a number of thalamic nuclei with the strongest labeling in the nuclei ventralis lateralis, ventralis posteromedialis, including its parvocellular part, medialis dorsalis and centrum medianum, and weaker labeling in the nuclei ventralis anterior, ventralis posterolateralis, intermediodorsalis, paracentralis, parafascicularis and pulvinaris anterior. In the midbrain, labeling was found in the deep mesencephalic nucleus, ventral tegmental area, and substantia nigra. In the lower brainstem, labeled cells were found in the pontine reticular formation, median and dorsal raphe nuclei, medial parabrachial nucleus, and locus coeruleus. The findings are discussed in terms of the possible role of these structures in voluntary vocal control.
The norepinephrine transporter (NET) plays a major role in regulating the actions of norepinephrine by removing norepinephrine from the synapse. Many studies suggest norepinephrine plays an important role in regulating development of the CNS, pointing to NET as an important factor in this process. We examined the ontogeny of NET expression in rat brain at 5, 10, 15, 20 and 25 days postnatally (PND) and in adults, using quantitative autoradiography with [3H]nisoxetine as ligand. At PND 5 and 10 most forebrain areas had low NET expression (1-2 fmol/mg tissue). By PND 15 most forebrain areas increased NET expression approximately five-fold compared with PND 10, levels generally similar to those found in the adult brain. In contrast, NET development in the brainstem exhibited elevated densities at PND 5, 10 and 20 that decreased in the adult. The locus coeruleus, in particular, had very high NET expression in the early postnatal period that decreased dramatically in the adult brain. These data illustrate a dynamic ontogenic profile for NET, characterized by developmental increases in forebrain structures and contrasting decreases in the brainstem. The early postnatal expression of NET in brainstem and the subsequent decrease or loss of NET expression with maturation suggest an important role for this transporter and for norepinephrine in the development of many brain regions. These studies also have important implications for use of drugs targeting the noradrenergic system in children and adolescents, such as antidepressants and drugs of abuse.
Genetic mutations affecting signaling by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) perturb development of breathing in mice and are associated with congenital central hypoventilation syndrome in humans. However, the role of GDNF in development of brainstem neurons that control breathing is largely unknown. The present study demonstrates that genetic loss of GDNF decreases the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) neurons in the pontine A5 noradrenergic cell group, a major source of inhibitory input to the medullary respiratory pattern generator. This phenotype is associated with a significant increase in the frequency of central respiratory output recorded from the fetal medulla-spinal cord in vitro. In dissociate cultures of the A5 region from rat embryos, GDNF increases TH cell number and neurite growth without affecting total neuronal survival or proliferation of TH neurons. These effects of GDNF are inhibited by function blocking antibodies against endogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), indicating that GDNF requires BDNF as a cofactor to stimulate differentiation of A5 neurons. Our findings demonstrate that GDNF is required for development of pontine noradrenergic neurons in vivo and indicate that defects in the A5 cell group may contribute to the effects of genetic disruption of GDNF signaling on respiratory control.
Natural environments typically contain temporal scatters of sounds emitted from multiple sources. The sounds may often physically stand out from one another in their conjoined rather than simple features. This poses a particular challenge for the brain to detect which of these sounds are rare and, therefore, potentially important for survival. We recorded gamma-band (32-40 Hz) electroencephalographic (EEG) oscillations from the scalp of adult humans who passively listened to a repeated tone carrying frequent and rare conjunctions of its frequency and intensity. EEG oscillations that this tone induced, rather than evoked, differed in amplitude between the two conjunction types within the 56-ms analysis window from tone onset. Our finding suggests that, perhaps with the support of its non-phase-locked synchrony in the gamma band, the human brain is able to detect rare sounds as feature conjunctions very rapidly.
The dorsal vagal complex (DVC) encompasses the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS), the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (DMX) and the area postrema (AP), that altogether provide the major integrative center for the mammalian autonomic nervous system. The adult rat DVC has been reported to contain afferent-dependent concentration of the plasticity-promoting polysialylated form of neural cell adhesion molecule [J Neurosci 21 (2001) 4721; Eur J Neurosci 14 (2001) 1194]. This prompted us to assess the occurrence of neurogenesis in the DVC of adult rats. Cumulative in vivo labeling of cell proliferation with i.p. bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) injections was combined with phenotypic markers and confocal microscopy on serial brainstem sections throughout the DVC extent. In basal condition, sparse BrdU+ nuclei were selectively detected in the DVC according to a discrete and reproducible pattern. Some of them were found to colocalize with the neuronal markers doublecortin, HuC/D, or neuronal-specific antigen (NeuN), demonstrating that neurogenesis does occur within the DVC of adult rat. In the NTS, 10% of the BrdU+ nuclei were also NeuN+. A comparable proportion of astrogliogenesis was found in the DVC. Nestin immunohistochemistry yielded a highly specific labeling pattern at the border between AP and NTS. These data may relate to the neural stem cells that have been reported in the floor of the IVth ventricle [J Neurosci 16 (1996) 7599]. In order to assess a possible modulation of neurogenesis by afferent input in vivo, unilateral vagotomy was performed prior to cumulative BrdU treatment. Such DVC deafferentation triggered a large increase of BrdU incorporation in the ipsilateral DVC, which was associated with microglial proliferation in the DMX and with increased genesis of neurons and astrocytes in the NTS. These findings establish DVC as a novel model of adult neurogenesis that is reactive to deafferentation.
SNAT2 is a neutral amino acid carrier that belongs to the system A family. Since its function in the nervous system remains unclear, we have analyzed its distribution in the rat CNS using specific antisera. Although SNAT2 is expressed widely in the CNS, it is enriched in the spinal cord and the brainstem nuclei, especially those of the auditory system. At the cellular level, SNAT2 was preferentially located in neuronal cell bodies and processes, although it was also strongly expressed in the meninges and ependyma. In astrocytes, the localization of SNAT2 was more restricted since it was intensely expressed in the perivascular end-feet, glia limitans, cerebellar astrocytes and Bergmann glia, but it was less intense in astrocytes of the cerebral parenchyma. Among neurons, the primary sensory neurons of the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus appeared to be those that most strongly express SNAT2, but many other neurons, including cortical pyramidal cells and their dendrites were also intensely stained. In several regions the transporter was detected in axons, especially in the brainstem, and its presence in both dendrites and axons was confirmed by confocal microscopy and ultrastructural studies. However, while SNAT2 was observed in the large principal dendrites and the small distal dendrites, it was only found in axonal shafts and was excluded from terminals. Some glutamatergic neurons were among the more intensely labeled cells whereas SNAT2 was not detected on GABAergic neurons. The expression of SNAT2 partially coincides with that reported for SNAT1, especially in glutamatergic neurons. Hence, both proteins could fulfill complementary roles in replenishing glutamate pools and be differentially regulated under different physiological conditions. They also seem to co-localize in non-neuronal cells probably contributing to amino acid fluxes through the blood-brain barrier.
The beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) is expressed within the nervous system, even at the earliest stages of embryonic development when cell growth and proliferation is particularly important. In order to study the function of APP at these early developmental stages, we have studied the development of the cerebral cortex in both wild type and App-/- mutant mice. Here, we demonstrate that APP mRNA is expressed in cortical precursor cells and that APP protein is concentrated within their apical domains during interphase. However, during mitosis, APP re-localizes to the peripheral space surrounding the metaphase plate. In APP-deficient cortical precursors, the duration of mitosis is increased and a higher proportion of cortical precursor cells contained nuclei in late G2. We conclude that during cortical development APP plays a role in controlling cell cycle progression, particularly affecting G2 and mitosis. These observations may have important implications for our understanding of how APP influences the progression of Alzheimer's disease, since degenerating cortical neurons have been shown to up-regulate cell cycle markers and re-enter the mitotic cycle before dying.
Restrained worker honeybees (Apis mellifera L.) are able to learn to associate antennal-scanning of a metal plate with a sucrose reinforcement delivered to the mouthparts. Learning occurs reliably in a single association of the two sensory stimuli. The involvement of nicotinic pathways in memory formation and retrieval processes was tested by injecting, into the whole brain through the median ocellus, either mecamylamine (0.6 microg per bee) or alpha-bungarotoxin (2.4 ng per bee). Saline served as a control. Mecamylamine injected 10 min before the retrieval test impairs the retention level tested 3 h and 24 h after single- or multi-trial learning. Retrieval tests performed at various times after the injection show that the blocking effect of mecamylamine lasts about 1 h. The drug has no effect on the reconsolidation or extinction processes. Mecamylamine injected 10 min before conditioning impairs single-trial learning but has no effect on five-trial learning and on the consolidation process. By contrast, alpha-bungarotoxin only impairs the formation of long-term memory (24 h) induced by the five-trial learning and has no effect on medium-term memory (3 h), on single-trial learning or on the retrieval process. Hence, owing to previous data, at least two kinds of nicotinic receptors seem to be involved in honeybee memory, an alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive and an alpha-bungarotoxin-insensitive receptor. Our results extend to antennal mechanosensory conditioning the role of the cholinergic system that we had previously described for olfactory conditioning in the honeybee. Moreover, we describe here in this insect a pharmacological dissociation between alpha-bungarotoxin sensitive long-term memory and alpha-bungarotoxin insensitive medium-term memory, the last one being affected by mecamylamine.
The serotonergic system and the orbitofrontal cortex have been consistently implicated in the pathophysiology of obsessive compulsive disorder. Yet, the relations between these two systems and the ways they interact in producing obsessions and compulsions are poorly understood. The present study tested the hypothesis that pathology of the orbitofrontal cortex leads to a dysregulation of the serotonergic system which is manifested in compulsive behavior, using a new rat model of this disorder. In the model, 'compulsive' behavior is induced by attenuating a signal indicating that a lever-press response was effective in producing food. We found that lesion to the rat orbital cortex led to a selective increase in compulsive lever-pressing that was prevented by the serotonin re-uptake inhibitor, paroxetine, and was paralleled by an increase in the density of the striatal serotonin transporter, assessed using high affinity [3H]imipramine binding. These results suggest that the serotonergic system is involved in orbital lesion-induced compulsivity, and provide a possible account for the observed association between obsessions and compulsions and dysfunction of the orbitofrontal cortex and of the serotonergic system in obsessive compulsive disorder.
We sought to determine whether contextual fear conditioning, a hippocampal-dependent task, would affect neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, and if so, to identify which aspect of the training experience accounts for the change. The immediate shock deficit paradigm was used, together with bromodeoxyuridine immunohistochemistry, to isolate the contribution of different aspects of contextual fear conditioning to neurogenesis. Contextual fear learning caused a 33% decrease in the number of proliferating cells that was anatomically restricted to the dentate gyrus with no change in cell survival or differentiation. This attenuation was not related to exposure to the conditioned stimulus alone, the footshock unconditioned stimulus alone, or the expression of fear to the context after training. Instead, the effect of context conditioning on cell proliferation appears to be specifically due to the formation of an association between the context and shock during training, an amygdala dependent function.
The zona incerta (ZI), first described over a century ago by Auguste Forel as a &quot;region of which nothing certain can be said,&quot; forms a collection of cells that derives from the diencephalon. To this day, we are still not certain of the precise function of this &quot;zone of uncertainty&quot; although many have been proposed, from controlling visceral activity to shifting attention and from influencing arousal to maintaining posture and locomotion. In this review, I shall outline the recent advances in the understanding of the structure, connectivity and functions of the ZI. I will then focus on a possible and often neglected global role for the ZI, one that links its diverse functions together. In particular, I aim to highlight the idea that the ZI forms a primal center of the diencephalon for generating direct responses (visceral, arousal, attention and/or posture-locomotion) to a given sensory (somatic and/or visceral) stimulus. With this global role in mind, I will then address recent results indicating that abnormal ZI activity manifests in clinical symptoms of Parkinson disease.







Mucopolysaccharidoses are a group of inherited disorders occasionally accompanied by cervical spine involvement complicating tracheal intubation. In this study, we review and discuss 5 cases of mucopolysaccharidosis with cervical spinal involvement.
We present a case of intradural multiple ring-enhancing lesions in a 20-year-old male with symptoms and signs of progressive spastic paraparesis. An MRI of the thoracolumbar area showed 2 peculiar ring-enhancing lesions, at the level of T12 and L1. The differential diagnosis includes inflammatory or infectious lesions in addition to rare cystic tumors. The patient underwent surgical resection of the 2 lesions with an uneventful perioperative course. Histologically, the diagnosis was consistent with cystic schwannomas.
Infection is a common complication of ventriculoperitoneal shunts, and ascites is one of the rare manifestations of shunt infection. We report a neonate in whom shunt infection is presented only by ascites. The causative organism, coagulase negative staphylococci, was detected only in the cerebrospinal fluid although peritoneal fluid analysis was consistent with infection. Our patient shows the importance of considering shunt infection when unexplained ascites is the first and only manifestation in neonates with ventriculoperitoneal shunts.
Thrombolytic therapy is the modality of choice for the treatment of life threatening thrombosis in various vascular territories and nowadays, is used extensively in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. There is, however, the omnipresent danger of serious bleeding inherently associated with the use of all thrombolytics which if it occurs in the brain, can lead to potentially serious neurological impairment and even death. In our report, we describe the successful surgical management of a streptokinase-induced intracranial hemorrhage. Timely neurosurgical intervention is advocated as the optimal approach for this particular side effect of thrombolytic agents.
Pregnancy increases the risk of cerebrovascular accidents to approximately 13 times the expected rate. Most of the cerebrovascular accidents are due to cerebral venous thrombosis. Headache, seizures and focal neurological deficits are some of the symptoms of cerebral venous thrombosis. Headache can also be due to postural puncture, pre eclampsia and eclampsia in the postpartum period. Neuroimaging with MRI with contrast helps in the diagnosis of cerebral venous thrombosis and giving a definite diagnosis, which aids in the treatment and prognosis. The cases presented in this report highlight the importance of investigations such as MRI or CT in the diagnosis of cerebral venous thrombosis in pregnancy and puerperium.
Carotid artery pseudoaneurysm is a rare complication of injury to the head and neck, which has been traditionally managed by an open surgical repair to avoid the occurrence of devastating cerebral strokes. Their treatment presents a challenge because of the risk of serious neurological events. This report presents a case of a stab penetrating injury to the left upper neck (Monson`s zone-III), which resulted in ipsilateral seventh and twelfth cranial nerve palsy and contra lateral hemiparesis, and false aneurysm of the internal carotid artery. After excision of the aneurysm, the internal carotid artery was ligated. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient remains free of symptoms.














Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the world. Vitamin E as an anti-oxidant vitamin, was suggested to have a role in the prevention of CVD. We did a meta-analysis, using the Cochrane Group Methodology, of all available randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to evaluate the role of vitamin E in the prevention of CVD. Nine studies met inclusion criteria, including 80,645 participants. Vitamin E supplementation was not associated with a reduction in total mortality or total CVD mortality, but it was associated with a small statistically significant reduction in non-fatal myocardial infarction in patients with pre-existing coronary artery disease. Prophylactic use of vitamin E in doses ranging between 50-800 IU was not associated with any increase in the incidence of serious side effects.
Febrile seizures occur between the age of 3 months and 5 years with a temperature of 38 degrees C or higher, and are either simple or complex. Eight gene loci have been identified to be associated with certain cases of autosomal dominant familial febrile seizures, and 12 genes have been associated with some of the familial epilepsy syndromes that can start with febrile seizures. The mutations and the protein products are known for only some of these 20 genes. The risk of recurrence of convulsions in a further febrile illness is on average 30%, and of developing epilepsy is on average 6%, but both vary depending on the presence and number of risk factors in any given patient. The immediate treatment of a febrile convulsion is intravenous or rectal diazepam, but febrile status epilepticus requires intravenous Phenobarbital and possibly other medications. Long-term antiepileptic drugs are not recommended in most patients with febrile seizures. However, exceptions should be considered on an individual basis in patients with complex febrile seizures with multiple risk factors for development of later epilepsy.
The history of the development of knowledge of myasthenia gravis is reviewed. Clinical profiles of the immune and non-immune mediated forms of myasthenia are discussed. The current theory of pathogenesis is reviewed. Tests used to diagnose myasthenia gravis, and their comparative diagnostic yields are presented. Past and current modalities of treatment are reviewed. Future therapeutic strategies are introduced. The roles of the thymus and thymectomy in the genesis and treatment of myasthenia gravis are discussed.
Advances in research on globus pallidus (GP) suggest that this 'long thought to be' relay in the 'indirect pathway' plays a unique and critical role in basal ganglia function. The traditional idea of parallel processing within the basal ganglia is also challenged by recent findings. It is now clear that axons of GP neurons form large, perisomatic baskets around target neurons in all major basal ganglia nuclei, thereby exerting a profound influence on the output of the entire basal ganglia. GP neurons are autonomously active both in vivo and in vitro. It is believed that temporal information carried along the corticostriatopallidal pathway is critical for proper motor execution. The importance of appropriately controlled discharge of GP neurons is highlighted by psychomotor disorders such as Parkinson's disease, in which alterations in the pattern and synchrony of discharge in GP neurons are thought to contribute to motor symptoms. Several lines of evidence suggest that the aberrant activity of GP neurons following dopamine depletion is caused by alteration in the synaptic input from both striatum and subthalamic nucleus. In normal subjects, the capability of striatal input in translating cortical input into precisely timed responses in GP neurons is mediated by (1) the expression of postsynaptic GABA(A) receptor composed of subunits with fast kinetic properties; (2) an effective GABA reuptake system in terminating the action of synaptically released GABA, and (3) the existence of dendritic HCN channels that actively abbreviate the time course of the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and reset rhythmic discharge. Despite the rapid pace in uncovering the elements that shape the activity along the striatopallidosubthalamic pathway, the origin of rhythmic, synchronized bursting of GP neurons seen in parkinsonism has not been fully established experimentally. Further elucidation of the factors that control the information transfer in the striatopallidal synapses is thus critical to our understanding of basal ganglia function and establishing treatment for Parkinson's disease and other basal ganglia disorders.
Enhanced pain is a component of the 'sickness response' which is an evolutionarily adaptive constellation of responses that enhance the survival of the host. Proinflammatory cytokines mediate these sickness behaviors, and whether proinflammatory cytokines are involved in exaggerated pain has become an intriguing question. Studies suggest that spinal cord glial cells (astrocytes and microglia) are activated in conditions that lead to enhanced pain. Not only is glial activation associated with enhanced pain, but it is also integral to the induction and maintenance of these pain states. Proinflammatory cytokines can be released by activated astrocytes and microglia within the central nervous system. This review will discuss the role of proinflammatory cytokines in experimental models of prolonged pain states. Administration of exogenous proinflammatory cytokines facilitates pain, and agents that antagonize proinflammatory cytokine actions have been shown to block and/or reverse enhanced pain. These findings suggest that blocking the synthesis and/or release of proinflammatory cytokines may be viable strategies for the treatment of pathological pain. Gene therapy to augment the endogenous anti-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-10, is one of the more promising therapies currently under study.
Opioid receptors are involved in regulating neuronal survival. Here we demonstrate that activation of the mu-opioid receptor in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells led to the phosphorylations of IkappaB kinase (IKK) and p65, denoting the stimulation of the nuclear factor-kappaB (NFkappaB) transcription factor. This response was mediated through pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins. The mu-opioid-induced IKK phosphorylation required extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and c-Src. Moreover, c-Jun N-terminal kinase and calmodulin-dependent kinase II also participated in the IKK activation, despite the lack of involvement of phospholipase Cbeta and protein kinase C. These data suggest that the mu-opioid receptor is capable of simulating NFkappaB signaling via the phosphorylation of IKK and p65 in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells.
The newly discovered multi-oscillatory nature of the mammalian circadian clock system and the cloning of the genes involved in the molecular mechanism that generates circadian rhythmicity have opened new approaches for understanding how mammals are temporally organized and how the mammalian circadian system reacts to the lack of normal synchronization cues. In the present study we investigated the effects of long-term exposure to constant red dim light on the pattern of the expression of Period 1 in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus and of Arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase(Aa-nat) in the retina and pineal gland. Our data demonstrate that Period 1 mRNA expression in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus was not affected by exposure to constant red dim light for 60 days, whereas Aa-nat mRNA expression in the retina and in the pineal gland was significantly affected, since in some animals (20-30%) Aa-nat mRNA levels were found to be higher during the subjective day. A circadian rhythm of serum melatonin and locomotor activity was present in all the animals tested. In 4 animals serum melatonin levels were high during the subjective day. Our data suggest that long-term exposure to constant red dim light may induce desynchronization between the circadian rhythm of locomotor activity and serum melatonin levels.
Nogo-A is a myelin inhibitor of neurite outgrowth that accounts for the difficulty in fiber regeneration in the central nervous system. Its 66-amino-acid extracellular domain (Nogo-66) contributes to the inhibitory activity of Nogo-A. The Nogo-66 receptor is widely distributed in neurons of the central nervous system, including the cerebellum. In our study on the distribution of Nogo-66 receptor in the cerebellar cortex in the rat, we unexpectedly found Nogo-66 receptor immunoreactivity in the glia cells, particularly abundant beneath the Purkinje cells. The presence of Nogo-66 receptor in glia cells has not been reported before. A detailed study was thus conducted. Immunoelectron microscopic investigation clearly demonstrated that the Nogo-66 receptor immunoreactivity could be ascertained at the gap junction between glia cells, indicating that the Nogo-66 receptor may modulate the communication between glia cells through gap junctions.
Despite the infancy of iMRI in epilepsy surgery and the paucity of literature on this topic, some conclusions may be reached. Although iMRI is a useful adjunct during epilepsy procedures, a randomized control trial is necessary to determine its true impact.
iMRI is a reliable and safe tool to monitor the extent of resection and to avoid complications in the transsphenoidal surgical approach for pituitary tumors. The best indication for its application in transsphenoidal surgery is for patients with pituitary macroadenomas with suprasellar extension. The low-field 0.3-T magnet has a diagnostic imaging quality that provides surgeons with good intraoperative detail of the anatomic relations in the sellar region. In our experience, iMRI provided a distinct benefit in planned STR for invasive macroadenomas that compress the optic chiasm and in planned GTR for noninvasive tumors. The iMRI design adopted at our center includes important features, such as the use of ferromagnetic surgical instruments, elimination of patient transportation, and capability as a shared resource, that allow multipurpose diagnostic use and increased cost-effectiveness.

Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) is widely held to be associated with Alzheimer's disease, the insoluble aggregates of the peptide being the major constituents of senile plaques. In this study, we evaluated the effect of Zn(2+) (5, 50 and 200 microM) on Abeta induced toxicity using the human teratocarcinome (NT2) cell line. Our results proved that 50 and 200 microM Zn(2+) protected NT2 cells from Abeta 25-35 toxicity. Zinc was also shown to be effective by preventing the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsi(m)) induced by Abeta 25-35, not allowing cytochrome c release from mitochondria, and subsequently, caspase 3 activation. However, when the cells were treated with Abeta 1-40, only Zn(2+) 5 microM had a protective effect. We have further observed that 5 microM Zn(2+) prevented Abeta 1-40 aggregation into a beta-sheet structure. Considering the results presented, we argue that Zn(2+) has a concentration-dependent protective effect.
Parkinson disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease of unknown origin that is characterized, mainly, by a significant reduction in the number of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) of the brain and a dramatic reduction in dopamine levels in the corpus striatum. For reasons that we do not know, the dopamine neuron seems to be more vulnerable to damage than any other neuron in the brain. Although hypotheses of damage to the dopamine neuron include oxidative stress, growth factor decline, excitotoxicity, inflammation in the SNpc and protein aggregation, oxidative stress in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system garners a significant amount of attention. In the oxidative stress hypothesis of PD, superoxide, nitric oxide and dopamine all conspire to create an environment that can be detrimental to the dopamine neuron. MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine), the tool of choice for investigations into the mechanisms involved in the death of dopamine neurons in PD, has been used extensively in attempts to sort out what happens in and around the dopamine neuron. Herein, we review the roles of dopamine, superoxide and nitric oxide in the demise of the dopamine neuron in the MPTP model of PD as it relates to the death of the dopamine neuron noted in PD.
The polyglutamine disorders consist of a group of nine neurodegenerative diseases with overlapping phenotypes, but which affect distinct neuronal subsets, causing neuronal dysfunction and death. In the majority of these, the causative proteins share no homology to other known proteins, or to each other apart from the polyglutamine tract. The polyglutamine tracts themselves are toxic over a disease-specific threshold, and this common feature has suggested a common pathogenesis. The pathogenic mechanism(s) of this group of diseases is hotly debated, with proteolytic cleavage and nuclear accumulation both popular hypotheses. Such cleavage is thought to release toxic fragments containing an expanded polyglutamine tract, and may itself facilitate entry of cytoplasmic polyglutamine proteins to the nucleus. Numerous downstream effects including accumulation and apoptotic activation, misfolding, aggregation, and sequestration of other proteins including transcription factors and chaperones may then be initiated. It is uncertain whether all of the polyglutamine proteins undergo cleavage in vivo. Even in those in which proteolysis has been demonstrated, it remains unclear to what extent this also occurs in the wild-type proteins, or whether it is dependent on, or increased by, the expanded polyglutamine tract. Similarly, in at least one of these disorders (spinocerebellar ataxia type 6), nuclear localisation has not been demonstrated. The contradictory evidence for the production and role of proteolytic fragments and for nuclear localisation in toxicity, reviewed in this article, suggests that neither may be uniformly necessary steps in the pathogenesis of this group of diseases, and that, for all their apparent similarities, the exact pathogenic mechanisms may not be identical in each.
Zidovudine (AZT) is the main therapeutic agent against HIV vertical transmission and is routinely administered to seropositive pregnant women and their newborns. Toxicity after chronic administration as well as citogenetic effects following developmental AZT exposure has been reported. Furthermore, recent animal data indicate alterations of several behavioral endpoints during the entire lifespan of mice and rats after developmental AZT exposure. In this study, we investigated specific central nervous system (CNS) effects of AZT administration during pregnancy on the offspring. CD-1 mouse females were administered twice daily from day 10 of pregnancy until delivery with either AZT (160 mg/kg) or saline (0.9% NaCl). On PND, 60 male offsprings received an intraperitoneal injection of the D1 receptor agonist 2,3,4,5-tetra-hydro-7,8-diol-1-phenyl-(1H)-3-benzazepine (SKF 38393) (0, 3, and 10 mg/kg), and spontaneous behavior was assessed in an automated activity chamber for 40 min. At variance from what observed in control mice that displayed excessive grooming when administered the higher dose of the D1 agonist, SKF 38393 failed to increase duration of grooming in AZT-treated mice. These data suggest that the D1 receptorial dopaminergic subsystem might be hyporesponsive in mice prenatally exposed to AZT.
It has been demonstrated that exposure to cocaine increases cell death in the fetal CNS. To examine the molecular mechanisms of this effect, we employed mouse oligo microarrays followed by real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR) to compare expressions of apoptosis-related genes in the cerebral wall of 18-day-old (E18) fetuses from cocaine-treated (20 mg/kg cocaine, s.c., b.i.d., E8th-E18th) and drug-naive (saline, s.c.) mice. Out of approximately 400 relevant genes in the arrays, 53 showed alterations in expression in cocaine-exposed fetuses. Upregulation was observed in 35 proapoptotic and 8 antiapoptotic genes; 4 proapoptotic and 6 antiapoptotic genes were down-regulated. The affected genes encode a wide range of apoptosis-related proteins, including death receptors (NTF-R1, NTF-R2, DR3, DR5, LTbeta-R, GITR, P57 TR-1) and their adaptor and regulatory proteins (MASGE-D1, TRAF-2, SIVA, MET, FLIP, FAIM, IAP1, ATFA), members of transcription regulatory pathways (JNK, NF-kappaB, P53), members of BCL-2 family of proteins (BID, BAD, BAX, BIK, NIP21, NIP3, NIX, BCL-2), DNA damage sensor (PARP-1), caspases and their substrates and regulatory proteins (caspases 8, 4, 9, and 3, ACINUS, CIDE-A, CIDE-B, GAS2), mitochondrially released factors (cytochrome c, AIF, PRG3), specific endoplasmic reticulum- and oxidative stress-associated factors (BACH2, ABL1, ALG2, CHOP), members of cell survival AKT and HSP70 pathways (PIK3GA, PTEN, HSP70, BAG1, BAG2), and others. This suggests that cocaine affects survival of developing cerebral cells via multiple apoptosis-regulating mechanisms.

How is it that form arises out of chaos? In attempting to deal with this primary question, time and again a &quot;Missing Third&quot; is posited that lies between extremes. The problem of the &quot;Missing Third&quot; can be traced through nearly the entire history of thought. The form it takes, the problems that arise from it, the solutions suggested for resolving it, are each representative of an age. This paper traces the issue from Plato and Parmenides in the 4th--5th centuries, B.C.; to Neoplatonism in the 3rd--5th centuries; to Locke and Descartes in the 17th century; on to Berkeley and Kant in the 18th century; Fechner and Wundt in the 19th century; to behaviorism and Gestalt psychology, Jung, early in the 20th century, ethology and cybernetics later in the 20th century, then culminates late in the 20th century, with chaos theory.
The legislation regulating sanctions for offenders with mental disorders has been under parliamentary review in Sweden, and major changes have been discussed. In the present study, we have explored the expectations and effects of the previous change in legislation, introduced in 1992 and aimed at reducing coercive psychiatric treatment. Two cohorts of male subjects, admitted for forensic psychiatric investigation before (1988-90, n = 187) and after (1993-95, n = 180) 1992, were compared regarding sanctions, diagnoses and background data with a possible impact on the study populations. Contrary to expectations, the 1993-95 cohort was characterized by increased proportions of psychotic disorders and sentences to forensic psychiatric treatment. In both cohorts, few cases had an adequate outpatient treatment. A tendency to shorter compulsory inpatient treatment periods during the last year before the index crimes was found for those with psychotic disorders in the 1993-95 cohort. The frequency of immigrants with psychotic disorders was markedly increased in the later cohort. The intention of the new legislation to minimize forensic psychiatric treatment was thus counteracted by an unexpected increase in number of offenders with psychotic disorders. To what extent these findings are ascribable to factors other than the new legislation, such as reduced inpatient treatment facilities and generally decreased economic growth rate that coincided with the observation period, cannot be estimated in a limited study population such as ours.
Entrance doors at wards where psychiatric care is provided are sometimes locked, which is not the case at wards where somatic care is provided. How locked entrance doors at psychiatric wards are experienced by patients has been investigated to a very limited extent. The aim was to describe voluntarily admitted patients' perceptions of advantages and disadvantages about being cared for on a psychiatric ward with a locked entrance door. Audio-taped, semi-structured interviews were conducted with 20 patients voluntarily admitted at psychiatric wards. Content analysis revealed six categories of advantages and 11 categories of disadvantages. Most advantages were categorized as &quot;protects patients and staff against 'the outside' &quot;, &quot;provides patients with a secure and efficient care&quot; and &quot;provides staff with a sense of control over the patients&quot;. Most disadvantages were categorized as &quot;makes patients feel confined&quot;, &quot;makes patients feel dependent on the staff&quot; and &quot;makes patients feel worse emotionally&quot;. Patients perceive a variety of advantages and disadvantages, for themselves, their visitors and staff, connected to locked entrance doors at psychiatric wards. A locked door may make the ward appear as both a prison and a sanctuary. It is important that staff try to minimize patients' concerns connected to the locked door.
Benzodiazepine (BDZ) drug impact on mental functions was explored in a cohort study of 30 psychiatric outpatients on long-term BDZ medication. A new questionnaire, the Drug Impact on Mental Processes (DIMP) was used and evaluated. The patients were rated three times: on inclusion in the study, after about 18 months and, finally, only a few days later. Test-retest reliability was evaluated for the two last ratings and was found acceptable for 19/23 items. The DIMP scores indicated negative effects on crisis reaction, intensified defence mechanisms and reduced cognitive, emotional and conative functions. Long-term BDZ treatment intensified passive coping. The drug impact on mental functions ranged between a mild and a moderate degree. The clinical outcomes of the patients' psychiatric disorders were evaluated at a 1-year follow-up after continued or discontinued BDZ treatment. In the subgroup that had discontinued the BDZ treatment at follow-up, significantly more patients reported reduced severity of their psychiatric disorders and significantly more patients had paid jobs. The overall clinical improvement after discontinued BDZ treatment may be explained by recovery from an addiction syndrome. It may also be related to a shift from passive to active coping.
We present the Need of Support and Service Questionnaire (NSSQ), a new instrument developed to provide professionals in psychiatric care and community social services with a tool to assess needs of support and service in mentally disabled clients. The final version of the instrument was designed after comments from professionals in psychiatric care, community social services, and the clients and their relatives. A reliability study (test-retest, n=77), inter-rater (n=69) and a validity study (n=529) were performed. In the validity study, comparisons were done with the Camberwell Assessment of Need (CAN) scale, the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) scale and the Social and Occupational Functioning Assessment Scale (SOFAS). The test-retest and inter-rater reliability were 0.86 and 0.76, respectively. The percentage of agreement on the individual items ranged from 83.1% to 100.0% (test-retest) and 76.8% to 100.0% (inter-rater reliability). The corresponding kappa coefficients ranged from 0.63 to 1.00 (test-retest) and 0.33 to 1.00 (inter-rater reliability). The comparison between NSSQ and CAN items demonstrated high sensitivity and specificity as well as satisfactory likelihood ratios (LRs). The correlations between GAF and SOFAS scores and the number of needs of support, number of needs of service and the total number of needs of support and service were -0.49, -0.32 and -0.47, and -0.48, -0.26 and -0.45, respectively. All correlations were statistically significant (P&lt;0.01). The results demonstrated that the psychometric characteristics of the NSSQ were satisfactory. Moreover, professionals without any formal training easily used it.
We aimed to estimate the value of structured interviews, medical records and Swedish register diagnoses for assessing lifetime diagnosis of patients with schizophrenia. Psychiatric records and diagnostic interviews of 143 Swedish patients diagnosed by their treating physician with schizophrenia and related disorders were scrutinized. Based on record analysis only, or a combined record and interview analysis, DSM-IV diagnoses were obtained by the OPCRIT algorithm. Independent of the OPCRIT algorithm, a standard research DSM-IV diagnosis, based on both record and interview analysis, was given by the research psychiatrist. Concordance rates for the different psychosis diagnoses were calculated. DSM-IV diagnoses based on records only, showed a good to excellent agreement with diagnoses based on records and interviews. Swedish register diagnoses displayed generally poor agreement with the research diagnoses. Nevertheless, 94% of subjects sometimes registered with a diagnosis of schizophrenic psychoses (i.e. schizophrenia, schizoaffective psychosis or schizophreniform disorder) displayed a standard research DSM-IV diagnosis of these disorders. For patients in long-term treatment for schizophrenia in Sweden, psychiatric record reviews should be optimal, cost effective and sufficient for assessment of lifetime research diagnoses of schizophrenia. For these patients a research interview adds little new information. The results further indicate that a Swedish register diagnosis of schizophrenic psychoses has a high positive predictive power to a standard research DSM-IV diagnosis of the disorders. It is concluded that for future Swedish large-scale genetic studies focusing on a broad definition of schizophrenia, it would be sufficient to rely on the Swedish register diagnoses of schizophrenic psychosis.
The aim of the present study was to investigate relationships between scales from the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) and the factor structure of the KSP in a sample of male juvenile delinquents. The KSP was administered to a group of male juvenile delinquents (n=55, mean age 17 years; standard deviation=1.2) from four Swedish national correctional institutions for serious offenders. As expected, the KSP showed appropriate correlations between the scales. Factor analysis (maximum likelihood) arrived at a four-factor solution in this sample, which is in line with previous research performed in a non-clinical sample of Swedish males. More research is needed in a somewhat larger sample of juvenile delinquents in order to confirm the present results regarding the factor solution.
The aim of the study was to assess the feasibility of naltrexone as a potential pharmacotherapy for amphetamine dependence. The study design was an open-label clinical trial with 20 amphetamine-dependent patients receiving 12 weeks of treatment comprised of naltrexone (50 mg) along with relapse prevention therapy. Patients were assessed weekly for adverse events and compliance to medication. Tolerability to naltrexone was measured by patient's self-report and observed adverse effects along with plasma markers of hepatotoxicity. Compliance to treatment was measured by number of treatment days attended and by the presence of naltrexone's metabolite, 6-beta-naltrexol in urine. Majority of the patients tolerated the medication well, also during relapse. Mild headache, nausea and abdominal pain were reported (n=3) but subsided within 2 weeks. Plasma levels of hepatic markers did not reveal any significant increase from baseline. Eleven out of 20 patients complied with the treatment and there was a significantly higher proportion of positive tests of 6-beta-naltrexol in urine among patients completing 12 weeks of treatment compared to those who did not (77% vs. 22%). The frequency and amount of amphetamine consumed was significantly lower during treatment compared with pre-treatment consumption (P&lt;0.01). In conclusion, naltrexone was well tolerated with moderate rates of compliance, supporting the feasibility of investigating this compound in a larger placebo-controlled trial as a potential pharmacotherapy for amphetamine dependence.
We wanted to examine whether persons needing acute psychiatric admittance can give us reliable information about their functional status with the COOP/WONCA charts (Dartmouth Primary Care Cooperative Information Project-World Organization of National Colleges, Academies and Academic Associations of General Practitioners/Family Physicians), and if this information parallel that of therapists and ward staff. To examine internal consistency, external reliability and test-retest reliability, all patients consecutively admitted to an acute psychiatric department were asked to fill in the COOP/WONCA, Short-Form-36 Health Survey (SF-36) and Symptom Checklist 90--Revised (SCL-90-R) 1-2 weeks after admittance. Their therapists scored a special version of the GAF, and the ward staff scored an observer version of the COOP/WONCA. The first 59 patients repeated the COOP/WONCA scoring after a few days to estimate of test-retest reliability. Of a total of 267 persons admitted in the study period, 102 were included. Non-inclusion was largely due to early discharge. The internal consistency of the COOP/WONCA corresponded to a Cronbach's alpha=0.85. External reliability versus the SF-36 resulted in a correlation of r=-0.82 (P&lt;0.001), and versus the observer version of COOP/WONCA we found r=0.46 (P&lt;0.001). Correlation with GAF was low and not significant. The COOP/WONCA correlated significantly with the SCL-90-R scores (r=0.59, P&lt;0.001). The test-retest correlation was r=0.85 (P&lt;0.001). Correlations varied between sub-groups of patients, but all had consistently high correlations between the various self-scored measures. The COOP/WONCA gives a consistent and reliable report of acutely admitted psychiatric inpatients' own views of their functional capacity. The therapists' views and to some degree the ward staff's views diverge from the patients' opinions, especially for the more seriously disturbed patients.

We previously documented that male mice lacking the gene encoding the neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase (nNOS-/-) are more aggressive than wildtype (WT) mice in all standard testing paradigms. Testosterone is necessary, but not sufficient, to evoke the persistent aggression in these mutants. Deletion of the nNOS gene not only eliminates nNOS protein, but in common with many gene deletions, affects several 'down-stream' processes. For example, serotonin (5-HT) metabolism is altered in male nNOS-/- mice. Baseline corticosterone, but not ACTH, concentrations are also altered in the nNOS-/- mice. Despite elevated corticosterone concentrations, nNOS knockout mice are less 'anxious' or 'fearful' than WT mice, which may contribute to their aggressiveness. For example, male nNOS-/- mice spend more time in the open field than WT mice. Furthermore, nNOS knockout mice also show increased sensitivity to painful stimuli, which may also prolong aggressive interactions. Aggressive behaviour is not a unitary process, but is the result of complex interactions among several physiological, motivational, and behavioural systems, with contributions from the social and physical environment. The multiple, and often unanticipated, effects of targeted gene disruption on aggressive behaviour are discussed.
Cell replacement therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD) has so far been based on the use of primary dopaminergic (DA) neuroblasts obtained from the brain of aborted human fetuses. Clinical trials show that intrastriatal DA neuron transplants can give substantial symptomatic relief in advanced PD patients. Two recent NIH-sponsored placebo-controlled trials, however, have given disappointing results and highlighted a number of critical issues that need to be resolved in order to turn cell transplantation into an acceptable clinical therapy. First, graft survival and clinical outcome has so far been too variable, suggesting that DA neuron grafts may not be equally effective in all PD patients. Secondly, it has become clear that immune mechanisms leading to slowly developing inflammatory responses may compromise long-term graft survival and function. Third, the problems associated with the use of tissue from aborted fetuses make it necessary to develop alternative sources of cells for transplantation. Recent progress in the generation of DA neuroblasts from neural progenitors and embryonic stem cells suggest that these kinds of cell may offer more accessible, defined and standardized sources of cells for clinical transplantation in PD.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous non-coding RNA molecules that inhibit protein translation in a sequence specific manner. We carried out microarray analyses of 180 human pre-miRNAs in neuroblastoma cell, SH-SY5Y, following stimulation by TPA. Twelve of the pre-miRNAs were up-regulated by the TPA stimulation. We also explored miRNA target genes associated with neuronal differentiation. Some miRNAs have complementarity with 3'UTR of the Notch1 gene, a regulator of neuronal differentiation, and luciferase assay showed that overexpression of these miRNAs reduced the luciferase activity of reporter genes containing the Notch1-3'UTR sequence. Our results suggest that miRNAs can be associated with TPA induced signalling pathways and expression of Notch1 gene.

Potassium M currents play a role in stabilizing the resting membrane potential. These currents have previously been identified in several cell types, including sensory receptors. Given that maintaining membrane excitability is important for mechano-electrical transduction in the inner ear, the presence of M currents was investigated in outer hair cells isolated from the guinea pig hearing organ. Using a pulse protocol designed to emphasize M currents with the whole-cell patch-clamp technique, voltage- and time-dependent, non-inactivating, low-threshold currents (the hallmarks of M currents) were recorded. These currents were significantly reduced by cadmium chloride. Results from RT-PCR analysis indicated that genes encoding M channel subunits KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 are expressed in the guinea pig cochlea. Our data suggest that guinea pig outer hair cells express an M-like potassium current that, following sound stimulation, may play an important role in returning the membrane potential to resting level and thus regulating outer hair cell synaptic mechanisms.
Patients with tracheostomies frequently experience complications, including bacteremia, sepsis, pneumonia, and multi antibiotic-resistant bacterial infections. A prospective, descriptive, randomized, controlled, clinical case series involving seven men and three women was conducted on patients in the neuroscience unit of a long-term rehabilitation hospital during a period of 25 days to compare the use of an nonwoven drain sponge dressing containing an antimicrobial (polyhexamethylene biguanide) to a non-impregnated, nonwoven drain sponge dressing on tracheostomy sites. Specifically, the purpose of the study was to compare the presence of four bacterial pathogens (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, Enterobacter cloacae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Staphylococcus aureus) and resident normal skin flora (alpha-hemolytic Streptococci and Staphylococcus epidermidis) at the tracheostomy sites. Culture results for total days of growth showed an absence of pathogens and presence of normal skin flora for 11 study days in patients randomized to the antimicrobial dressing group and an absence of pathogens and presence of normal skin flora for six study days in patients randomized to the control group. The results of this descriptive case series suggest that an antimicrobial drain sponge dressing could be an important adjunct in the control of infections in patients with tracheostomies without compromising normal skin flora.
Pain has a strong emotional component. The amygdala plays a key role in emotionality and is also involved in pain processing and pain modulation. Our previous studies showed an important role of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in pain-related synaptic plasticity and sensitization of neurons in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA). Here we address the roles of mGluR1 and mGluR5 subtypes in the CeA in the modulation of supraspinally organized behavioral responses in a model of arthritic pain. Audible and ultrasonic (25+/-4 kHz) vocalizations were measured in awake rats during and after innocuous and noxious stimulation (15 s) of the knee joint. Vocalizations were recorded in the same animals before arthritis, 6 h after arthritis induction and during administration of antagonists selective for mGluR1 (CPCCOEt) and mGluR5 (MPEP) into the CeA through stereotaxically implanted microdialysis probes. The duration of audible and ultrasonic vocalizations increased in the arthritic pain state. The duration of vocalizations during stimulation (VDS), which are organized at the brainstem level, was significantly reduced by CPCCOEt but not by MPEP. Vocalizations that continued after stimulation (VAS), which are organized in the limbic forebrain, particularly the amygdala, were inhibited by CPCCOEt and MPEP. These findings suggest differential roles of mGluR1 and mGluR5 in the CeA in pain-related vocalizations. Both mGluR1 and mGluR5 contribute to vocalizations generated in the amygdala whereas mGluR1, but not mGluR5, is involved in the amygdala-mediated modulation of vocalizations originating from activity in the brainstem.
Toward the goal of defining new pharmacological targets for the treatment of chronic pain conditions, in previous studies we established a model, termed 'hyperalgesic priming,' in which an acute inflammatory stimulus causes a long-lasting latent susceptibility to hyperalgesia induced by subsequent exposures to the inflammatory mediator, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). Those investigations suggested the hypothesis that priming induces a novel linkage between the PGE2-activated second messenger cascade and the epsilon isoform of protein kinase C (PKCepsilon). In the present study, comparison of dose-response relations for hyperalgesia produced by PGE2, forskolin, 8-Br-cAMP, or the protein kinase A (PKA) catalytic subunit, in primed versus normal animals, demonstrated that priming-induced enhancement of the PGE2-activated second messenger cascade occurs downstream to adenylate cyclase and upstream to PKA. Therefore, PGE2-induced hyperalgesia in the primed animal is enhanced by the recruitment of a novel cAMP/PKCepsilon signaling pathway in addition to the usual cAMP/PKA pathway. These observations suggest that pharmacological disruption of the novel interaction between cAMP and PKCepsilon might provide a route toward the development of highly specific methods to reverse cellular processes that underlie chronic pain states.
Alterations in the intracellular signal transduction pathway in primary afferents may contribute to pain hypersensitivity. We demonstrated that very rapid phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase occurred in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons that were participating in the transmission of noxious signals. Capsaicin injection induced phosphorylated-p38 (p-p38) in small-to-medium diameter sensory neurons with a peak at 2 min after capsaicin injection. Furthermore, we examined the p-p38 labeling in the DRG after noxious thermal stimuli and found a stimulus intensity-dependent increase in labeled cell size and the number of activated neurons. Most of these p-p38-immunoreactive (IR) neurons were small- and medium-sized neurons, which coexpressed transient receptor potential ion channel TRPV1 and phosphorylated-extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase. Intrathecal administration of the p38 inhibitor, FR167653, reversed the thermal hyperalgesia produced by the capsaicin injection. Inhibition of p38 activation was confirmed by the decrease in the number of p-p38-IR neurons in the DRG following capsaicin injection. Taken together, these findings suggest that the activation of p38 pathways in primary afferents by noxious stimulation in vivo may be, at least in part, correlated with functional activity, and further, involved in the development of thermal hyperalgesia.

It has been suggested that sequential movements in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) might be improved by the effects of external rhythmic cues. We studied spatiotemporal gait parameters and temporal gait variability in patients with PD and control subjects under different walking conditions in order to investigate whether rhythmic auditory cues could improve temporal variability. A total of 30 subjects were recruited, comprising 15 patients with idiopathic PD and 15 control subjects with no history of neurological disorder. As an indicator for temporal stability, we used the coefficient of variability (CV=standard deviation/mean X 100) of recorded intervals between two consecutive steps (gait variability). After control values were obtained, subjects underwent a Physical Rehabilitation Programme (PRP) consisting of a variety of motor tasks performed in combination with rhythmic sounds with different cadences. Sessions lasted 1h/day, five times a week for a period of four consecutive weeks. At the end of the PRP subjects were evaluated again. Following completion of the programme the patients' coefficients of variability improved significantly for the preferred gait (gait: t=2.950, p=0.011) but were not significantly different from those obtained in control subjects (gait: t=3.873, p=0.391). These results are consistent with and extend prior studies of rhythmic auditory facilitation in PD and suggest a valuable method of improving gait timing in these patients.
QT interval on the surface electrocardiogram (ECG) reflects the time for repolarization of myocardium and prolongation of QTc is strongly associated with sudden cardiac death. Studies using novel techniques on beat-to-beat QT interval variability (QTV) have shown that it is influenced by the autonomic nervous system and is a predictor of sudden cardiac death. In this study, we examined the awake and sleep changes in QTV in 39 normal adults (mean age, 35 years) and 10 children (mean age, 11 years) using 24-hour ECG records. We obtained eight 5-minute segments of ECG sampled at 1000 Hz from the 24-hour records. Our results show that there is a diurnal variation of QTvm, detrended QT interval variance corrected for mean QT, and QTvi, an index of QTvm divided by heart rate variability corrected for mean heart rate. There was a significant increase in mean QT during sleep, whereas there was a significant decrease in QTvm and QTvi. QTvi significantly increased during the early morning hours. There were significant but modest correlations between the average 24-hour and awake QTvi and age (p &lt; 0.01). There were also decreased low-frequency and high-frequency powers of QT during sleep. Coherence between heart rate and QT interval fluctuations in the range of 0-0.5 Hz, and especially in the high-frequency range (0.15-0.5 Hz), was significantly lower in adults than in children (p &lt; 0.0002). These findings demonstrate diurnal fluctuations in ventricular repolarization lability. We speculate that these effects may relate to changes in cardiac autonomic function and may contribute to the well-known diurnal variation in the incidence of ventricular arrhythmias.
Posterior fossa extradural hematoma (PFEDH) is an infrequent condition. Though numerous neuropathological sequelae of cardiopulmonary bypass have been described, to the best of the authors' knowledge, PFEDH after cardiac surgery has not been reported in the English literature. We report a 4-year-old boy with tricuspid atresia, who underwent cardiac surgery under cardiopulmonary bypass. On the 2nd postoperative day, his neurological condition deteriorated, and a CT scan of the head revealed a large PFEDH with mass effect and hydrocephalus. He underwent a midline suboccipital craniectomy and evacuation of PFEDH. There was diffuse bleeding from the dura; however, no specific site of bleeding was identified. The child started following commands on the 1st postoperative day, had an uneventful recovery and was discharged on the 10th postoperative day. On follow-up, 1 year after the surgery, he was doing well.
Brain lesions due to dog bites are not frequent and mainly concern infants in the first years of their life because they are short in height, the size of the infant's head is relatively large compared to the body and the skull bones are thin. We report the case of an infant with bilateral skin, skull and brain injuries secondary to a dog bite, and review the relative reports in the literature. We stress the need to consider the possibility of penetration into the intracranial compartment occurring in cases of dog bites of the scalp, because these wounds on the scalp and the skull may appear relatively limited, small in size and slight, in spite of associated potentially dangerous deeper lesions involving the intracranial structures that may be missed on the first observation. Infection is the main possible complication, and may be the cause of permanent and serious neurological deficits. Prompt diagnosis and therapy are mandatory to avoid complications and to achieve good clinical results.

The marine mollusk Aplysia releases the water-borne pheromone attractin during egg laying. This small protein stimulates the formation and maintenance of mating and egg-laying aggregations. Attractin has been characterized from five Aplysia species: A. californica, A. brasiliana, A. fasciata, A. vaccaria, and A. depilans. We describe here the isolation of attractin from Bursatella leachii, and show that it belongs to the same protein family. The pattern of residue conservation, especially the six invariant cysteines, suggests that all of these attractins have a common fold. The nuclear magnetic resonance solution structure of A. californica attractin contains two antiparallel alpha-helices, the second of which contains the heptapeptide sequence IEECKTS that has been implicated in attractin function. Synthetic peptides containing this IEECKTS region are attractive, and mutating surface exposed charged residues within this region of attractin abolishes attractin activity. This suggests that the second helix is an essential part of the receptor-binding interface. In contrast to the peptide pheromonal attractants in amphibians, which are species specific, the attractins are, to our knowledge, the first water-borne peptide or protein pheromone family in invertebrates and vertebrates that are not species specific.
We report a series of three experiments designed to examine the effect of posture on tactile temporal processing. Observers reported which of two tactile stimuli, presented to the left and right index fingers (experiments 1-3; or thumb, experiment 3), was perceived first while adopting one of two postures--hands-close (adjacent, but not touching) or hands-far (1 m apart)--in the dark. Just-noticeable differences were significantly smaller in the hands-far posture across all three experiments. In the first two experiments we compared hand versus foot responses and found equivalent advantages for the hands-far posture. In the final experiment the stimuli were presented to either the same or different digit on each hand (index finger or thumb) and we found that only when the same digit on each hand was stimulated was there an advantage for the hands-far posture. The finding that temporal precision was better with greater distance contradicts predictions based on attention-switching models of temporal-order judgments, and also contrasts with results from similar experimental manipulations in other modalities (eg vision). These results provide support for a rapid and automatic process that transforms the representation of a tactile stimulus from a skin-centred reference frame to a more external (eg body-centred or allocentric) one.
There is an ongoing debate related to whether chromatic motion perception arises as a consequence of a chromatic signal only (eg Wandell et al 1999 Neuron 24 901-909) or a signal that is essentially based on luminance processes (luminance artifacts) (Mullen et al 2003 Vision Research 43 1235-1247). These two views conform to the idea that colour and luminance processes are physiologically independent (Livingstone and Hubel 1988 Science 240 740-749), but according to other reports many primary cortical 'V1' cells respond to both colour and luminance contrast (eg Vidyasagar et al 2002 European Journal of Neuroscience 16 945-956). A psychophysical task was designed to test whether possible interaction between luminance and chromatic contrast could account for perception of chromatic motion. It is shown that subjects respond in a manner that reflects involvement of both processes.
Some theories of surface-colour perception assume that observers estimate the illuminant on a scene so that its effects can be discounted. A critical test of this interpretation of colour constancy is whether surface-colour matching is worse when the number of surfaces in a scene is so small that any illuminant estimate is unreliable. In the experiment reported here, observers made asymmetric colour matches between pairs of simultaneously presented Mondrian-like patterns under different daylights. The patterns had either 49 surfaces or a minimal 2 surfaces. No significant effect of number was found, suggesting that illuminant estimates are unnecessary for surface-colour matching.
By adaptational and other mechanisms, the visual system can compensate for moderate changes in the colour of the illumination on a scene. Although the colours of most surfaces are perceived to be constant ('colour constancy'), some are not. The effect of these residual colour changes on the ability of observers to identify surfaces by their apparent colour was determined theoretically from high-resolution hyperspectral images of natural scenes under different daylights with correlated colour temperatures 4,300 K, 6,500 K, and 25,000 K. Perceived differences between colours were estimated with an approximately uniform colour-distance measure. The information preserved under illuminant changes increased with the number of surfaces in the sample, but was limited to a relatively low asymptotic value, indicating the importance of physical factors in constraining identification by apparent colour.
We examined the fine-scale mapping of the visual world within the primary visual cortex of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) using differential optical imaging. We stimulated two sets of complementary stripe-like locations in turn, subtracting them to generate the cortical representations of continuous bands of visual space. Rotating this stimulus configuration makes it possible to map different spatial axes within the primary visual cortex. In a similar manner, shifting the stimulated locations between trials makes it possible to map retinotopy at an even finer scale. Using these methods we found no evidence of any local anisotropies or distortions in the cortical representation of visual space. This is despite the fact that orientation preference is mapped in a discontinuous manner across the surface of marmoset V1. Overall, our results indicate that space is mapped in a continuous and smooth manner in the primary visual cortex of the common marmoset.
Some experimental and theoretical approaches to surface-colour perception depend on approximating surface reflectance spectra by low-dimensional models. In the psychophysical experiment reported here, observers had to discriminate between patterns of Munsell surfaces and their spectral approximations under either the same or different illuminants. The approximations were produced by principal component analysis, by independent component analysis, and by artificial neural networks trained with a supervised-learning rule. In all experimental conditions, observers required, on average, at least 5 basis functions for discrimination performance to be at chance, thus placing a lower limit on the dimensionality of models of Munsell reflectance spectra.
Sequential asymmetrical colour matching of forty Munsell samples simulated under illuminant C and one of eight test illuminants was carried out. The subjects matched the appearance of each sample under illuminant C with its appearance under the test illuminant. Samples and background (N7) were presented for 1 s under the test illuminant and were isoluminant with each other. Subjects adjusted hue, chroma, and value under illuminant C. The experiments distinguished two groups of subjects; some observers needed to reduce the luminance of the sample to make a match while others did not. This 'dimming' occurred when the matches were close to cardinal axes, especially the tritanopic confusion line. A model of luminance and cone-opponent mechanisms contributing to brightness can account for the dimming effect. Details of analysis in cone-opponent space (L - M, L + M - S, L + M) are presented in the companion paper (Stanikunas et al, 2005 Perception 34 this issue).
We have used the standing wave of invisibility illusion (Macknik and Livingstone, 1998 Nature Neuroscience 1 144-149) to examine the masking effects produced by a range of stimuli of varying chromatic and luminance contrast content. The pattern of masking was highly selective. Maximum effects were always obtained when the target and mask were identical in terms of their chromatic and/or luminance contrast composition, but were reduced as the angular separation in colour space between them was increased. Masking was of a monopolar nature, indicating the operation of rectified mechanisms selective for different combinations of colour and luminance contrast.
When our visual system is confronted with ambiguous stimuli, the perceptual interpretation spontaneously alternates between the competing incompatible interpretations. The timing of such perceptual alternations is highly stochastic and the underlying neural mechanisms are poorly understood. We show that perceptual alternations can be triggered by a transient stimulus presented nearby. The induction was tested for four types of bistable stimuli: structure-from-motion, binocular rivalry, Necker cube, and ambiguous apparent motion. While underlying mechanisms may vary among them, a transient flash induced time-locked perceptual alternations in all cases. The effect showed a dependence on the adaptation to the dominant percept prior to the presentation of a flash. These perceptual alternations show many similarities to perceptual disappearances induced by transient stimuli (Kanai and Kamitani, 2003 Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 15 664-672; Moradi and Shimojo, 2004 Vision Research 44 449-460). Mechanisms linking these two transient-induced phenomena are discussed.
Grating induction is a brightness effect in which a counterphase spatial brightness variation (a grating) is induced in a homogeneous test strip that is surrounded by an inducing luminance grating (McCourt, 1982 Vision Research 22 119-134). Moulden and Kingdom (1991 Vision Research 31 1999-2008) introduced an interesting variant of grating induction (sometimes referred to as gradient induction) in which multiple strips of either a linear luminance ramp or a sine-wave grating were interlaced with strips of homogeneous luminance. We (Blakeslee and McCourt, 1999 Vision Research 39 4361-4377) demonstrated that a simple multiscale filtering explanation could account for grating induction. Recently, however, Logvinenko (2003 Perception 32 621-626) presented several arguments impugning the adequacy of spatial filtering approaches to understanding brightness induction in gradient induction stimuli. We propose that Logvinenko's arguments apply only to a limited class of filtering models, specifically those which employ only a single spatial filter. To test this hypothesis we modeled gradient induction stimuli as a function of inducing contrast, as well as Logvinenko's (2003) remote induction stimulus, using our multiscale oriented difference-of-Gaussians (ODOG) model (Blakeslee and McCourt 1999). The ODOG model successfully predicts the appearance of the inducing strips and the homogeneous test strips in the gradient induction stimuli and the appearance of the test patches in the remote induction stimuli. These results refute Logvinenko's (2003) claims, and we interpret them as providing strong evidence for a multiscale filtering approach to understanding both gradient induction and remote brightness induction effects.
Recent studies of texture segmentation and second-order vision have proposed very similar models for the detection of orientation modulation and contrast modulation (OM and CM). From the similarity of the models it is tempting to assume that the two cues might be processed by a single generalised texture mechanism; however, recent results (Kingdom et al, 2003 Visual Neuroscience 2 65-76) have suggested that these cues are detected independently, or at least in a mechanism that is able to maintain an apparent independence between the cues. We tested new combinations of OM and CM and found that CM at 0.4 cycle deg(-1) facilitates the detection of OM at 0.2 cycle deg(-1) when the peaks of contrast align with the extremes of orientation. There is also some evidence of weak facilitation of CM by OM under the same conditions. Further, this facilitation can be predicted by filter--rectify--filter channels optimised for the detection of each cue, adding weight to the argument that texture cues are processed in a single generalised mechanism that nonetheless achieves cue independence or near-independence in many circumstances. We also found that the amount of suprathreshold masking produced by an orientation cue depends on the overall percept formed by that cue.
When subjects localize a flash relative to another stationary stimulus, the flash appears displaced in the direction of nearby motion signals (position capture; Whitney and Cavanagh, 2000 Nature Neuroscience 3 954-959). Our previous study had suggested that the position capture is larger for a flash presented ahead of a moving stimulus than for a flash behind it (Watanabe et al, 2003 Perception 32 545-559). In the present study, I investigated the spatial asymmetry of position capture. Experiment 1 demonstrated that asymmetric position capture occurs primarily in a moving-object-centered coordinate. Experiment 2 showed evidence that the asymmetric position capture operates after individuation of single visual objects. Finally, experiment 3 demonstrated that, when attention was reduced with a dual-task procedure, the asymmetric position capture increased. These results suggest that the spatial asymmetry of position capture occurs without attention but the spatial bias can be reduced by attention. Therefore, the underlying mechanism for the asymmetric spatial bias may be different from attentive tracking (Cavanagh, 1992 Science 257 1563-1565) and mislocalization during smooth pursuit (Brenner et al, 2001 Vision Research 41 2253-2259).

The magnitudes of two suprathreshold lateral spatial-interaction effects--grating induction and contrast--contrast--were compared with regard to their dependence upon inducing-grating spatial frequency. Both effects cause the contrast of target stimuli embedded in surrounding patterns to be matched nonveridically. The magnitudes of each effect were measured in a common unit that indexed the degree of nonveridical contrast matching across a large range of target-grating contrasts (+/- 0.80). Grating induction was a low-pass effect with respect to spatial frequency, whereas contrast-contrast was bandpass, peaking at approximately 4.0 cycles deg(-1). The magnitude of grating induction exceeded that of contrast--contrast, both overall and at their optimal frequencies (0.03125 and 4.0 cycles deg(-1), respectively); the two effects are equipotent at an inducing-grating spatial frequency of 1.0 cycle deg(-1). A significant negative correlation between the magnitudes of the two effects suggests a link whereby activation of second-order normalization mechanisms may inhibit first-order mechanisms.
The effect of attention on the detection and identification of vertically and horizontally oriented Gabor patterns in the condition of simultaneous masking with obliquely oriented Gabors was studied. Attention was manipulated by varying the set size in a visual-search experiment. In the first experiment, small target Gabors were presented on the background of larger masking Gabors. In the detection task, the effect of set size was as predicted by unlimited-capacity signal detection theory. In the orientation identification task, increasing the set size from 1 to 8 resulted in a much larger decline in performance. The results of the additional experiments suggest that attention can reduce the crowding effect of maskers.
The octave illusion occurs when each ear receives a sequence of tones alternating by one octave, but with different frequencies in each ear. Most listeners report a high pitch in one ear alternating with a low pitch in the opposite ear. Deutsch and Roll proposed an influential suppression model of the illusion in which the pitch is determined by ear dominance, while the location of this pitch is determined by high-frequency dominance. Deutsch later suggested that this unusual division between 'what' and 'where' mechanisms is facilitated by sequential interactions within the eliciting sequence. A recent study has raised doubts about the suppression model and the role of sequential interactions in the illusion (Chambers et al, 2002 Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance 28 1288-1302). Here, we examined whether this previous null effect of sequential interactions may have arisen because of uncontrolled influences of selective attention. The results reveal no evidence of a link between selective attention and sequential interactions, thus consolidating doubts about the validity of the suppression model.
Several models have been proposed to account for the flash-lag effect. One criterion for evaluating alternative models is to consider the separate effects of motion predictability and flash predictability. We first established that flash predictability has an impact on the size of the perceived spatial offset in the flash-lag illusion. We then examined motion predictability by varying the consistency of the motion trajectory. Both manipulations affected the magnitude of the flash-lag illusion. These outcomes suggest that the perception of position is a dynamic process that can be modulated by explicit cues in advance of the flash and by the temporal integration of position information over a consistent motion trajectory. A complete explanation of the flash-lag effect must specify how flash predictability and motion predictability modulate position-processing mechanisms.
Previously, we showed that many supine observers in a furnished room tilted 90 degrees perceive themselves and the room as upright. We called this the &quot;levitation illusion&quot; because the arms feel weightless when held out from the body. We now report that a familiar scene viewed by supine observers through a mirror at 45 degrees appears vertical when, optically, it is horizontal and above the head. However, the body feels pitched upright only partially. This visual-righting effect, like the levitation illusion, is due to the polarity axis of the scene being accepted as vertical even in the presence of conflicting information from the gravity sense organs. In experiment 1 we tested the potency of objects containing either intrinsic polarity (due to familiar tops and bottoms) or extrinsic polarity (due to support relationships) to generate a visual-righting illusion. To almost all observers, a blank surface seen in the mirror appeared like a ceiling. A scene containing an object with intrinsic polarity, such as a chair or person, seen in the mirror appeared vertical to almost all observers. A scene containing a pair of objects with only extrinsic polarity, such as a ball on a shelf (but not a ball under a shelf), also appeared vertical to most observers. In experiment 2 we found that a polarised scene was more likely to produce a visual-righting illusion when it was arranged as a view through a window rather than as a picture inside a room.
If aesthetics is a human universal, it should have a neurobiological basis. Although use of all the senses is, as Aristotle noted, pleasurable, the distance senses are primarily involved in aesthetics. The aesthetic response emerges from the central processing of sensory input. This occurs very rapidly, beneath the level of consciousness, and only the feeling of pleasure emerges into the conscious mind. This is exemplified by landscape appreciation, where it is suggested that a computation built into the nervous system during Paleolithic hunter-gathering is at work. Another inbuilt computation leading to an aesthetic response is the part-whole relationship. This, it is argued, may be traced to the predator-prey &quot;arms races&quot; of evolutionary history. Mate selection also may be responsible for part of our response to landscape and visual art. Aesthetics lies at the core of human mentality, and its study is consequently of importance not only to philosophers and art critics but also to neurobiologists.
The human serotonin 2C (5-HT2C) receptor undergoes extensive RNA editing, generating multiple isoforms; the most prominent isoform in the human brain is the extensively edited VSV isoform. In addition, a naturally occurring single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) is found in the coding region of the 5-HT2C receptor gene, which converts cysteine to serine at the 23rd amino acid (C23S). To elucidate the functional consequences, pharmacological properties were evaluated in cells expressing C23 or S23 in the nonedited, INI, or edited, VSV, isoform. Confocal imaging of HEK293 cells expressing the C23 and S23 variants revealed no apparent difference in cellular localization, which was confirmed in NIH-3T3 fibroblasts by surface biotinylation. Competition binding experiments revealed comparable high-affinity agonist binding for the C23 and S23 receptors and no difference in ligand affinities in either the INI or VSV backbones. The dose-response functions for 5-HT and (+/-)-1-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI) to elicit phosphoinositide hydrolysis did not differ in either HEK293 or NIH-3T3 fibroblasts expressing the receptor variants. Constitutive activity, evaluated in COS-7 and HEK293 cells, also was not different. Lastly, fluorescence resonance energy transfer demonstrated homodimerization of C23 receptors, which was reproduced in cells expressing the S23 variant. We conclude that the C23S SNP in the 5-HT2C receptor has no functional consequences, even when evaluated in the most common, edited receptor backbone. Therefore, positive associations between this polymorphism and disease states may be a consequence of linkage disequilibrium with another SNP that is involved in the disease.
A new mechanism has been recently proposed, whereby melatonin may participate in the ongoing process of neuronal degeneration in models of neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Antagonism of the melatonin receptor in rats using constant light or pinealectomy induced recovery and reduced the mortality typically associated with dopamine (DA) degeneration. In additional studies, employing ML-23 in the 6-OHDA-treated rat, remission from experimental PD was achieved using this drug in a post 6-OHDA treatment regime. To permit the further assessment of ML-23 as a potential clinical candidate for the treatment of PD, the present study was undertaken to determine the efficacy of ML-23 in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl, 1,2,3,6 tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model in the common marmoset. ML-23 was administered orally in a dose of 3 mg/kg twice daily to half of the animals, while the other half received vehicle only, in a blinded protocol, for 56 days. The effects of the treatment on positive and negative features of MPTP-induced PD were assessed, including horizontal and vertical movement, head checking, general behaviour and Parkinsonian condition, raisin board performance, the ability to remove a foot label, palatable and dry food intake, water consumption, bradykinaesia, and the positive symptoms of tremor, obstinate progression, and agitation. On all parameters, ML-23 produced a significant remission from MPTP-induced Parkinsonism, and this effect did not abate when ML-23 treatment was withdrawn. In a further pilot study involving a crossover of two animals, one animal treated previously with MPTP plus vehicle showed some remission of negative and positive features, although ML-23 treatment was not commenced until 8 weeks post-MPTP. Conversely, a recurrence of Parkinsonian signs was not observed when ML-23 treatment was withdrawn and substituted with oral vehicle. Dopamine transporter was severely impaired in all marmosets treated with ML-23 or vehicle for the duration of the study. These results suggest that a novel mechanism involving melatonin is involved in the primary aetiology of the chronic aspects of PD, and such a mechanism is not related to the antioxidative function of this hormone. From these preliminary results, it is concluded that ML-23 and other melatonin analogues have an important role to play in the treatment and clinical management of Parkinson's disease.
The role of endothelin-1 (ET-1) a potent vasoactive peptide, in glaucoma pathogenesis is receiving increasing attention, particularly in astroglial activation in optic nerve damage. Our laboratory has also shown that ET-1 treatment causes proliferation of cultured human optic nerve head astrocytes to possibly initiate astrogliosis. ET-1 is distributed in retina, optic nerve, and ciliary epithelium, however the effects of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) (as seen in glaucoma) on ET-1 and ET(B) receptors are not clearly understood. In the present study, the levels of immunoreactive ET-1 (ir-ET-1) in aqueous humour (AH) and optic nerve head (ONH) were determined in the Morrison elevated IOP model of glaucoma. Additionally in the ONH of these rats, immunohistochemical analyses of ET(B) receptors and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP; a marker for astroglial cells and for astrogliosis) were performed. There was 2- to 2.5-fold increase in AH ir-ET-1 levels for rats subjected to elevated IOP, compared to their respective controls. In the Morrison rat model of glaucoma, elevated IOP increased optic nerve ir-ET-1 with concomitant increases in ir-ET(B) and ir-GFAP labelling (possibly indicative of astrogliosis and hypertrophy). As seen in brain astrocytes subjected to neurotrauma, the present findings are suggestive of ET-1's role in astroglial activation, particularly in response to elevated IOP in glaucoma.
Recently, modern neuroscience has made considerable progress in understanding how the brain perceives, discriminates, and recognizes odorant molecules. This growing knowledge took over when the sense of smell was no longer considered only as a matter for poetry or the perfume industry. Over the last decades, chemical senses captured the attention of scientists who started to investigate the different stages of olfactory pathways. Distinct fields such as genetic, biochemistry, cellular biology, neurophysiology, and behavior have contributed to provide a picture of how odor information is processed in the olfactory system as it moves from the periphery to higher areas of the brain. So far, the combination of these approaches has been most effective at the cellular level, but there are already signs, and even greater hope, that the same is gradually happening at the systems level. This review summarizes the current ideas concerning the cellular mechanisms and organizational strategies used by the olfactory system to process olfactory information. We present findings that exemplified the high degree of olfactory plasticity, with special emphasis on the first central relay of the olfactory system. Recent observations supporting the necessity of such plasticity for adult brain functions are also discussed. Due to space constraints, this review focuses mainly on the olfactory systems of vertebrates, and primarily those of mammals.
An uncompromised blood flow to the brain is essential for normal neurological function. If the blood supply to the hindbrain, via the paired vertebral arteries, is reduced sufficiently, signs and symptoms of tertebrobasilar ischaemia may result. There are several factors that may cause a reduction in vertebral artery blood flow. These include exostoses, such as the retroarticular canal and lateral bridge of the atlas vertebra that may cause compression of the related part of the vertebral artery; or atherosclerosis of the artery wall occluding the vessel lumen. Functional factors, such as sustained end-of-range rotation of the cervical spine, may cause distortion of the vertebral artery in the suboccipital region, which may be reflected as decreased blood flow in the suboccipital and intracranial parts of the artery. A combination of such factors is likely to cause reduced blood flow to the hindbrain. It is the purpose of this review to highlight some of the factors that may compromise vertebral artery blood flow and, therefore, to provide some evidence on which to base our professional practice.

A major challenge of sensory systems neuroscience is to quantify brain activity underlying perceptual experiences and to explain this activity as the outcome of elemental neuronal response properties. Rats make extremely fine discriminations of texture by &quot;whisking&quot; their vibrissae across an object's surface, yet the neuronal coding underlying texture sensations remains unknown. Measuring whisker vibrations during active whisking across surfaces, we found that each texture results in a unique &quot;kinetic signature&quot; defined by the temporal profile of whisker velocity. We presented these texture-induced vibrations as stimuli while recording responses of first-order sensory neurons and neurons in the whisker area of cerebral cortex. Each texture is encoded by a distinctive, temporally precise firing pattern. To look for the neuronal coding properties that give rise to texture-specific firing patterns, we delivered horizontal and vertical whisker movements that varied randomly in time (&quot;white noise&quot;) and found that the response probabilities of first-order neurons and cortical neurons vary systematically according to whisker speed and direction. We applied the velocity-tuned spike probabilities derived from white noise to the sequence of velocity features in the texture to construct a simulated texture response. The close match between the simulated and real responses indicates that texture coding originates in the selectivity of neurons to elemental kinetic events.

The short-term risk of stroke after transient ischemic attack (TIA) is about 10% to 20% in the first 3 months, with much of the risk front-loaded in the first week. Unfortunately, little is known about the best therapies for hyperacute stroke prevention after TIA. A recent trial referred to by the acronym MATCH (for Management of Atherothrombosis With Clopidogrel in High-risk Patients With Recent Transient Ischemic Attack or Ischemic Stroke) provides hypothesis-generating data to suggest that double antiplatelet therapy in the short term may be appropriate. Here, the authors discuss treatment considerations, outlining the current knowledge and stressing the need for formal randomized trials to definitively establish the effectiveness of preventive therapies after minor stroke or TIA.
Ion channels are membrane-bound proteins that perform key functions in virtually all human cells. Such channels are critically important for the normal function of the excitable tissues of the nervous system, such as muscle and brain. Until relatively recently it was considered that dysfunction of ion channels in the nervous system would be incompatible with life. However, an increasing number of human diseases associated with dysfunctional ion channels are now recognised. Such neurological channelopathies are frequently genetically determined but may also arise through autoimmune mechanisms. In this article clinical, genetic, immunological, and electrophysiological aspects of this expanding group of neurological disorders are reviewed. Clinical situations in which a neurological channelopathy should enter into the differential diagnosis are highlighted. Some practical guidance on how to investigate and treat this complex group of disorders is also included.
In the present work, a label immunoquantification procedure was developed in order to determine the number of markers introduced into DNA. A non-enzymatic, in vitro labeling method for introducing the p-bromobenzoyl radical (label), through transamination and acylation reactions of the cytidine nucleotides in calf thymus DNA, was carried out. Three spacer arms with different lengths were used for separating the label from the nucleotide and three labeled DNA were obtained. Anti-p-bromobenzoyl chicken IgY polyclonal antibodies were obtained. The antibodies detected the label, into three-labeled DNA, with different sensitivities, in relation to spacer arm length used. About 3-11 labels per 4 x 10(6) bases into thermally denatured DNA were immunoquantified.


Objective: To compare the efficacy and safety of paroxetine controlled release (CR) (12.5 mg/day or 25 mg/day) versus placebo in premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD).Method: A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial was conducted over 3 menstrual cycles in women aged 18-45 years with confirmed DSM-IV PMDD in 47 outpatient centers across the United States and Canada from November 1999 to January 2002. The primary efficacy measure was the visual analog scale (VAS)-Mood, which is the mean of 4 core symptoms: irritability, tension, depressed mood, and affective lability.Results: A statistically significant difference was observed in favor of paroxetine CR 25 mg versus placebo on the VAS-Mood (adjusted mean difference = -12.58 mm, 95% CI = -18.40 to -6.76; p &lt; .001) and for paroxetine CR 12.5 mg versus placebo (adjusted mean difference = -7.51 mm, 95% CI = -13.40 to -1.62; p = .013). Paroxetine CR was generally well tolerated.Conclusion: Paroxetine CR doses of 12.5 mg/day and 25 mg/day are effective in treating PMDD and are well tolerated.
More than a decade ago, Goodale and Milner proposed that our perceptual experience of the world depends on visual processing that is fundamentally distinct from that mediating the moment-to-moment visual control of our actions. They mapped this distinction between vision-for-perception and vision-for-action onto the two prominent visual pathways that arise from early visual areas in the primate cerebral cortex: a ventral &quot;perception&quot; pathway projecting to inferotemporal cortex and a dorsal &quot;action&quot; pathway projecting to posterior parietal cortex. In the years since these ideas were first put forward, visual neuroscience has advanced rapidly on several fronts. In this chapter, we examine the perception-action distinction in the light of some of these developments, giving particular emphasis to the differences in the way the two streams process visual information and the way they interact in the production of adaptive behavior.
To conduct well-controlled studies of visual processing in the laboratory, deviations from natural visual situations must generally be employed. In some regards, the reduced visual paradigms typically used are adequate for providing an accurate description of visual representations. However, the use of fixation paradigms and stimuli isolated within a receptive field may underestimate the richness of visual processing in area V1. Experiments ranging from lightness encoding and perception to paradigms involving natural scenes and saccades used to examine the relationship between V1 activity and perception are reviewed in this chapter. Using more complex and natural visual stimulation, V1 responses have been detected that are significantly different from responses obtained in more reduced paradigms. A feature common to the findings of different experiments is that the scale of the activated neural population and circuitry appears to play a key role in the correlation between V1 activity and perception. More complex and natural visual stimulation brings into play extra-receptive field modulatory input not involved with stimulation localized to the receptive field. The results suggest that rather than subtly sculpting the response, modulatory input coming from intra- and/or intercortical sources is fundamental in establishing perceptual response patterns in natural visual situations.
How does the brain keep track of salient locations in the visual world when the eyes move? In parietal, frontal and extrastriate cortex, and in the superior colliculus, neurons update or 'remap' stimulus representations in conjunction with eye movements. This updating reflects a transfer of visual information, from neurons that encode a salient location before the saccade, to neurons that encode the location after the saccade. Copies of the oculomotor command - corollary discharge signals - must initiate this transfer. We investigated the circuitry that supports spacial updating in the primate brain. Our central hypothesis was that the forebrain commissures provide the primary route for remapping spatial locations across visual hemifields, from one cortical hemisphere to the other. Further, we hypothesized that these commissures provide the primary route for communicating corollary discharge signals from one hemisphere to the other. We tested these hypotheses using the double-step task and subsequent physiological recording in two split-brain monkeys. In the double-step task, monkeys made sequential saccades to two briefly presented targets, T1 and T2. In the visual version of the task, the representation of T2 was updated either within the same hemifield (&quot;visual-within&quot;), or across hemifields (&quot;visual-across&quot;). In the motor version, updating of the visual stimulus was always within-hemifield. The corollary discharge signal that initiated the updating, however, was generated either within the same hemisphere (&quot;motor-within&quot;) or in the opposite hemisphere (&quot;motor-across&quot;). We expected that, in the absence of the forebrain commissures, both visual-across and motor-across conditions would be impaired relative to their &quot;within&quot; controls. In behavioral experiments, we observed striking initial impairments in the monkeys' ability to update stimuli across visual hemifields. Surprisingly, however, both animals were ultimately capable of performing the visual-across sequences of the double-step task. In subsequent physiological experiments, we found that neurons in lateral intraparietal cortex (LIP) can remap stimuli across visual hemifields, albeit with a reduction in the strength of remapping activity. These behavioral and neural findings indicate that the transfer of visual information is compromised, but by no means abolished, in the absence of the forebrain commissures. We found minimal evidence of impairment of the motor-across condition. Both monkeys readily performed the motor-across sequences of the double-step task, and LIP neurons were robustly active when within-hemifield updating was initiated by a saccade into the opposite hemifield. These results indicate that corollary discharge signals are available bilaterally. Altogether, our findings show that both visual and corollary discharge signals from opposite hemispheres can converge to update spatial representations in the absence of the forebrain commissures. These investigations provide new evidence that a unified and stable representation of visual space is supported by a redundant circuit, comprised of cortical as well as subcortical pathways, with a remarkable capacity for reorganization.
A striking property of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the thalamus is the ability to dynamically filter and transform the temporal structure of their retinal spike input. In particular, LGN neurons respond to visual stimuli with either burst spike responses or tonic spike responses. While much is known from in vitro studies about the cellular mechanisms that underlie burst and tonic spikes, relatively little is known about the sensory stimuli that evoke these two categories of spikes. This review examines recent progress that has been made towards understanding the spatiotemporal properties of visual stimuli that evoke burst and tonic spikes. Using white-noise stimuli and reverse-correlation analysis, results show that burst and tonic spikes carry similar, but distinct, information to cortex. Compared to tonic spikes, burst spikes (1) occur with a shorter latency between stimulus and response, (2) have a greater dependence on stimuli with transitions from suppressive to preferred states, and (3) prefer stimuli that provide increased drive to the receptive field center and even greater increased drive to the receptive field surround. These results are discussed with an emphasis placed on relating the cellular constraints for burst and tonic activity with the functional properties of the early visual pathway during sensory processing.
Electrical synapses are composed of gap junction channels that interconnect neurons. They occur throughout the mammalian brain, although this has been appreciated only recently. Gap junction channels, which are made of proteins called connexins, allow ionic current and small organic molecules to pass directly between cells, usually with symmetrical ease. Here we review evidence that electrical synapses are a major feature of the inhibitory circuitry in the thalamocortical system. In the neocortex, pairs of neighboring inhibitory interneurons are often electrically coupled, and these electrical connections are remarkably specific. To date, there is evidence that five distinct subtypes of inhibitory interneurons in the cortex make electrical interconnections selectively with interneurons of the same subtype. Excitatory neurons (i.e., pyramidal and spiny stellate cells) of the mature cortex do not appear to make electrical synapses. Within the thalamus, electrical coupling is observed in the reticular nucleus, which is composed entirely of GABAergic neurons. Some pairs of inhibitory neurons in the cortex and reticular thalamus have mixed synaptic connections: chemical (GABAergic) inhibitory synapses operating in parallel with electrical synapses. Inhibitory neurons of the thalamus and cortex express the gap junction protein connexin 36 (C x 36), and knocking out its gene abolishes nearly all of their electrical synapses. The electrical synapses of the thalamocortical system are strong enough to mediate robust interactions between inhibitory neurons. When pairs or groups of electrically coupled cells are excited by synaptic input, receptor agonists, or injected current, they typically display strong synchrony of both subthreshold voltage fluctuations and spikes. For example, activating metabotropic glutamate receptors on coupled pairs of cortical interneurons or on thalamic reticular neurons can induce rhythmic action potentials that are synchronized with millisecond precision. Electrical synapses offer a uniquely fast, bidirectional mechanism for coordinating local neural activity. Their widespread distribution in the thalamocortical system suggests that they serve myriad functions. We are far from a complete understanding of those functions, but recent experiments suggest that electrical synapses help to coordinate the temporal and spatial features of various forms of neural activity.
Noxious stimuli that are perceived as painful, are conveyed to the thalamus by the spinothalamic tract (STT) and the spinotrigeminothalamic tracts (vSTT), arising from the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and medulla, respectively. Most investigators have concluded that the thalamic terminus of these pathways include several nuclei of the somatosensory and intralaminar thalamus. Non-noxious stimuli are carried by the dorsal column/medial lemniscal or the trigeminothalamic pathways which terminate in much more restricted regions of the thalamus than do the STT and vSTT systems. Lesions of components of the somatosensory pathways result in profound changes in the circuitry of the recipient thalamic nuclei. Not only are there the expected losses of the injured axons and their synaptic terminations, but there is also a marked reduction of the intrinsic GABAergic circuitry, even though the GABAergic neurons contributing to the circuitry have not been injured directly by lesions of the afferent pathways. Such changes in the inhibitory circuitry observed in experimental animals may explain the abnormal bursting behavior of thalamic neurons found in patients with central deafferentation pain syndromes. One potential approach to treating chronic pain would be to selectively remove the neurons of the superficial dorsal horn (lamina I) that specifically respond to noxious stimuli (NS neurons). A toxin has been developed (SSP saporin) that binds to the substance P receptor of NS neurons, is internalized by the neuron and kills the cell. SSP saporin has been shown to be effective in rats, and we have recently demonstrated that it effectively causes lesions in NS neurons of the lumbar spinal cord in the monkey and reduces the animals' response to noxious cutaneous stimuli. The SSP-saporin administration to the lumbar spinal cord destroys a relatively small number of the total neurons that project into the somatosensory thalamus and does not lead to demonstrable changes in the inhibitory circuitry of the thalamus, in contrast to lesions of major pathways that lead to reductions in the thalamic inhibitory circuitry.

Recovery of the function after stroke is a consequence of many factors including resolution of oedema and survival of the ischaemic penumbra. In addition there is a growing interest in the role of central nervous system (CNS) reorganization. Much of the evidence supporting this comes from animal models of focal brain injury, but non-invasive techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, transcranial magnetic stimulation, electroencephalography and magnetoencephalography now allow the study of the working human brain. Using these techniques it is apparent that the motor system of the brain adapts to damage in a way that attempts to preserve motor function. This has been demonstrated after stroke, as part of the ageing process, and even after disruption of normal motor cortex with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation. The result of this reorganization is a new functional architecture, one which will vary from patient to patient depending on the anatomy of the damage, the biological age of the patient and lastly the chronicity of the lesion. The success of any given therapeutic intervention will depend on how well it interacts with this new functional architecture. Thus it is crucial that the study of novel therapeutic strategies for treating motor impairment after stroke take account of this. This review maps out the attempts to describe functionally relevant adaptive changes in the human brain following focal damage. A greater understanding of how these changes are related to the recovery process will allow not only the development of novel therapeutic techniques that are based on neurobiological principles and designed to minimize impairment in patients suffering from stroke, but also to target these therapies at the appropriate patients.
Brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) are systems that allow us to translate in real-time the electrical activity of the brain in commands to control devices. They do not rely on muscular activity and can therefore provide communication and control for those who are severely paralyzed (locked-in) due to injury or disease. It has been shown that locked-in patients are able to achieve EEG-controlled cursor or limb movement and patients have successfully communicated by means of a BCI. Current BCIs differ in how the neural activity of the brain is recorded, how subjects (humans and animals) are trained to produce a specific EEG response, how the signals are translated into device commands, and which application is provided to the user. The present review focuses on approaches to BCIs that process the EEG on-line and provide EEG feedback or feedback of results to the user. We regard online processing and feedback cornerstones for routine application of BCIs in the field. Because training patients in their home environment is effortful and personal and financial resources are limited, only few studies on BCI long-term use for communication with paralyzed patients are available. The need for multidisciplinary research, comprising computer science, engineering, neuroscience, and psychology is now being acknowledged by the BCI community. A standard BCI platform, referred to as BCI2000, has been developed, which allows us to better combine and compare the different BCI approaches of different laboratories. As BCI laboratories now also join to unify their expertise and collaborations are funded, we consider it realistic that within few years we will be able to offer a BCI, which will be easy to operate for patients and caregivers.
The minimally conscious state (MCS) defines a functional level of recovery following severe brain injuries. Patients in MCS demonstrate unequivocal evidence of response to their environment yet fail to recover the ability to communicate. Drawing on recent functional brain-imaging studies, pathological data, and neurophysiological investigations, models of brain function in MCS are proposed. MCS models are compared and contrasted with models of the vegetative state (VS), a condition characterized by wakeful appearance and unconsciousness. VS reflects a total loss of cognitive function and failure to recover basic aspects of the normal physiologic brain state associated with wakefulness. MCS may represent a recovery of the minimal dynamic architecture required to organize behavioral sets and respond to sensory stimuli. Several pathophysiological mechanisms that might limit further recovery in MCS patients are considered. Implications for future research directions and possible therapeutic strategies are reviewed.
There is no agreement as to where the limits of consciousness lie, or even if these putative borders exist. Problems inherent to the study of consciousness continue to confound efforts to establish a universally accepted theory of consciousness. Consequently, clinical definitions of consciousness and unconsciousness are unavoidably arbitrary. Recently, a condition of severely altered consciousness has been described, which characterizes the borderzone between the vegetative state and so-called &quot;normal&quot; consciousness. This condition, referred to as the minimally conscious state (MCS), is distinguished from the vegetative state by the presence of minimal but clearly discernible behavioral evidence of self or environmental awareness. This chapter reviews the diagnostic criteria, pathophysiology, prognostic relevance, neurobehavioral assessment procedures and treatment implications associated with MCS.
Out-of-body experiences (OBEs) are defined as experiences in which a person seems to be awake and sees his body and the world from a location outside his physical body. More precisely, they can be defined by the presence of the following three phenomenological characteristics: (i) disembodiment (location of the self outside one's body); (ii) the impression of seeing the world from an elevated and distanced visuo-spatial perspective (extracorporeal, but egocentric visuo-spatial perspective); and (iii) the impression of seeing one's own body (autoscopy) from this perspective. OBEs have fascinated mankind from time immemorial and are abundant in folklore, mythology, and spiritual experiences of most ancient and modern societies. Here, we review some of the classical precipitating factors of OBEs such as sleep, drug abuse, and general anesthesia as well as their neurobiology and compare them with recent findings on neurological and neurocognitive mechanisms of OBEs. The reviewed data suggest that OBEs are due to functional disintegration of lower-level multisensory processing and abnormal higher-level self-processing at the temporo-parietal junction. We argue that the experimental investigation of the interactions between these multisensory and cognitive mechanisms in OBEs and related illusions in combination with neuroimaging and behavioral techniques might further our understanding of the central mechanisms of corporal awareness and self-consciousness much as previous research about the neural bases of complex body part illusions such as phantom limbs has done.
Nowadays, there is compelling evidence that there is a poor relationship between the incoming sensory input and the resulting pain sensation. Signals coming from the peripheral nervous system undergo a complex modulation by cognitive, affective, and motivational processes when they enter the central nervous system. Placebo- and hypnosis-induced analgesia form two extreme examples of how cognitive processes may influence the pain sensation. With the advent of modern brain imaging techniques, researchers have started to disentangle the brain mechanisms involved in these forms of cognitive modulation of pain. These studies have shown that the prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices form important structures in a descending pathway that modulates incoming sensory input, likely via activation of the endogenous pain modulatory structures in the midbrain periaqueductal gray. Although little is known about the receptor systems involved in hypnosis-induced analgesia, studies of the placebo response suggest that the opiodergic and dopaminergic systems play an important role in the mediation of the placebo response.
Neuronal aggregates involved in conscious awareness are not evenly distributed throughout the CNS but comprise key components referred to as the neural network correlates of consciousness (NNCC). A critical node in this network is the posterior cingulate, precuneal, and retrosplenial cortices. The cytological and neurochemical composition of this region is reviewed in relation to the Brodmann map. This region has the highest level of cortical glucose metabolism and cytochrome c oxidase activity. Monkey studies suggest that the anterior thalamic projection likely drives retrosplenial and posterior cingulate cortex metabolism and that the midbrain projection to the anteroventral thalamic nucleus is a key coupling site between the brainstem system for arousal and cortical systems for cognitive processing and awareness. The pivotal role of the posterior cingulate, precuneal, and retrosplenial cortices in consciousness is demonstrated with posterior cingulate epilepsy cases, midcingulate lesions that de-afferent this region and are associated with unilateral sensory neglect, observations from stroke and vegetative state patients, alterations in blood flow during sleep, and the actions of general anesthetics. Since this region is critically involved in self reflection, it is not surprising that it is similarly a site for the NNCC. Interestingly, information processing during complex cognitive tasks and during aversive sensations such as pain induces efforts to terminate self reflection and result in decreased processing in posterior cingulate and precuneal cortices.
In meditation both the quality and the contents of consciousness may be voluntarily changed, making it an obvious target in the quest for the neural correlate of consciousness. Here we present the results of a positron emission tomography study of yoga nidra relaxation meditation when compared with the normal resting conscious state. Meditation is accompanied by a relatively increased perfusion in the sensory imagery system: hippocampus and sensory and higher order association regions, with decreased perfusion in the executive system: dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate gyrus, striatum, thalamus, pons, and cerebellum. To identify regions active in both systems we performed a principal component analysis of the results. This separated the blood flow data into two groups of regions, explaining 25 and 18% of their variance: One group corresponded to the executive system, and the other to the systems supporting sensory imagery. A small group of regions contributed considerably to both networks: medial parietal and medial prefrontal cortices, together with the striatum. The inclusion of the striatum and our subsequent finding of increased striatal dopamine binding to D2 receptors during meditation suggested dopaminergic regulation of this circuit. We then investigated the neural networks supporting episodic retrieval of judgments of individuals with different degrees of self-relevance, in the decreasing order: self, best friend, and the Danish queen. We found that all conditions activated a medial prefrontal - precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex, thalamus, and cerebellum. This activation occurred together with the activation of the left lateral prefrontal/temporal cortex. The latter was dependent on the requirement of retrieval of semantic information, being most pronounced in the &quot;queen&quot; condition. Transcranial magnetic stimulation, targeting precuneus, was then applied to the medial parietal region to transiently disrupt the normal function of the circuitry. We found a decreased efficiency of retrieval of self-judgment compared to the judgment of best friend. This shows that the integrity of the function of precuneus is essential for self-reference, but not for reference to others.
The scientific study of the cerebral substrate of consciousness has been marked by significant recent achievements, resulting partially from an interaction between the exploration of cognition in both brain-damaged patients and healthy subjects. Several neuropsychological syndromes contain marked dissociations that permit the identification of principles related to the neurophysiology of consciousness. The generality of these principles can then be evaluated in healthy subjects using a combination of experimental psychology paradigms, and functional brain-imaging tools. In this chapter, I review some of the recent results relevant to visual phenomenal consciousness, which is an aspect of consciousness most frequently investigated in neuroscience. Through the exploration of neuropsychological syndromes such as &quot;blindsight,&quot; visual form agnosia, optic ataxia, visual hallucinations, and neglect, I highlight four general principles and explain how their generality has been demonstrated in healthy subjects using conditions such as visual illusions or subliminal perception. Finally, I describe the bases of a scientific model of consciousness on the basis of the concept of a &quot;global workspace,&quot; which takes into account the data reviewed.
For practical clinical purposes, as well as because of their deep philosophical implications, it becomes increasingly important to be aware of contemporary studies of the brain mechanisms that generate subjective experiences. Current research has progressed to the point where plausible theoretical proposals can be made about the neurophysiological and neurochemical processes which mediate perception and sustain subjective awareness. An adequate theory of consciousness must describe how information about the environment is encoded by the exogenous system, how memories are stored in the endogenous system and released appropriately for the present circumstances, how the exogenous and endogenous systems interact to produce perception, and explain how consciousness arises from that interaction. Evidence assembled from a variety of neuroscience areas, together with the invariant reversible electrophysiological changes observed with loss and return of consciousness in anesthesia as well as distinctive quantitative electroencephalographic profiles of various psychiatric disorders, provides an empirical foundation for this theory of consciousness. This evidence suggests the need for a paradigm shift to explain how the brain accomplishes the transformation from synchronous and distributed neuronal discharges to seamless global subjective awareness. This chapter undertakes to provide a detailed description and explanation of these complex processes by experimental evidence marshaled from a wide variety of sources.
There is increasing evidence that human cognitive functions can be addressed from a robust neuroscience perspective. In particular, the distributed coherent electrical properties of central neuronal ensembles are considered to be a promising avenue of inquiry concerning global brain functions. The intrinsic oscillatory properties of neurons (Llins, R. (1988) The intrinsic electrophysiological properties of mammalian neurons: Insights into central nervous system function. Science, 242: 1654-1664), supported by a large variety of voltage-gated ionic conductances are recognized to be the central elements in the generation of the temporal binding required for cognition. Research in neuroscience further indicates that oscillatory activity in the gamma band (25-50 Hz) can be correlated with both sensory acquisition and pre-motor planning, which are non-continuous functions in the time domain. From this perspective, gamma-band activity is viewed as serving a broad temporal binding function, where single-cell oscillators and the conduction time of the intervening pathways support large multicellular thalamo-cortical resonance that is closely linked with cognition and subjective experience. Our working hypothesis is that although dedicated units achieve sensory processing, the cognitive binding process is a common mechanism across modalities. Moreover, it is proposed that such time-dependent binding when altered, will result in modifications of the sensory motor integration that will affect and impair cognition and conscious perception.
Clinical observations have established that certain parts of the brain are essential for consciousness whereas other parts are not. For example, different areas of the cerebral cortex contribute different modalities and submodalities of consciousness, whereas the cerebellum does not, despite having even more neurons. It is also well established that consciousness depends on the way the brain functions. For example, consciousness is much reduced during slow wave sleep and generalized seizures, even though the levels of neural activity are comparable or higher than in wakefulness. To understand why this is so, empirical observations on the neural correlates of consciousness need to be complemented by a principled theoretical approach. Otherwise, it is unlikely that we could ever establish to what extent consciousness is present in neurological conditions such as akinetic mutism, psychomotor seizures, or sleepwalking, and to what extent it is present in newborn babies and animals. A principled approach is provided by the information integration theory of consciousness. This theory claims that consciousness corresponds to a system's capacity to integrate information, and proposes a way to measure such capacity. The information integration theory can account for several neurobiological observations concerning consciousness, including: (i) the association of consciousness with certain neural systems rather than with others; (ii) the fact that neural processes underlying consciousness can influence or be influenced by neural processes that remain unconscious; (iii) the reduction of consciousness during dreamless sleep and generalized seizures; and (iv) the time requirements on neural interactions that support consciousness.
Global workspace (GW) theory emerged from the cognitive architecture tradition in cognitive science. Newell and co-workers were the first to show the utility of a GW or &quot;blackboard&quot; architecture in a distributed set of knowledge sources, which could cooperatively solve problems that no single constituent could solve alone. The empirical connection with conscious cognition was made by Baars (1988, 2002). GW theory generates explicit predictions for conscious aspects of perception, emotion, motivation, learning, working memory, voluntary control, and self systems in the brain. It has similarities to biological theories such as Neural Darwinism and dynamical theories of brain functioning. Functional brain imaging now shows that conscious cognition is distinctively associated with wide spread of cortical activity, notably toward frontoparietal and medial temporal regions. Unconscious comparison conditions tend to activate only local regions, such as visual projection areas. Frontoparietal hypometabolism is also implicated in unconscious states, including deep sleep, coma, vegetative states, epileptic loss of consciousness, and general anesthesia. These findings are consistent with the GW hypothesis, which is now favored by a number of scientists and philosophers.
For a neuroscientist, consciousness currently defies any formal operational definition. However, the phenomenon is distinct from self-consciousness: after all, one can &quot;let oneself go,&quot; when experiencing extreme emotion, but still be accessing a sentiment, subjective, conscious state. This raw, basic subjective state does not appear to be an exclusive property of the human brain. There is no obvious qualitative transformation in either the anatomy or the physiology of the central nervous system of human or non-human animals, no phylogenetic Rubicon in the animal kingdom. Similarly, there is no clear ontogenetic line that is crossed as the brain grows in the womb, no single event or change in brain physiology, and certainly not at birth, when consciousness might be generated in an all-or-none fashion. A more plausible, and scientific, view of consciousness might be therefore that it is not a different property of the brain, some magic bullet, but that it is a consequence of a quantitative increase in the complexity of the human brain: consciousness will grow as brains grow. Hence, consciousness is most likely to be a continuously variable property of the brain, in both phylogenetic and ontogenetic terms. Here, we describe how modern techniques may be utilized to determine the physiological basis of consciousness.
The concept of consciousness is multifaceted, and steeped in cultural and intellectual history. This paper explores its complexities by way of a series of contrasts: (i) states of consciousness, such as wakefulness and sleep, are contrasted with awareness, a term that picks out the contents of consciousness, which range across all our psychological capacities; (ii) consciousness is contrasted to self-consciousness, which is itself a complex term embracing self-detection, self-monitoring, self-recognition theory of mind and self-knowledge; (iii) &quot;narrow&quot; and &quot;broad&quot; senses of consciousness are contrasted, the former requiring mature human awareness capable of guiding action and self-report, the latter involving the much broader capacity to acquire and exploit knowledge; (iv) an &quot;inner&quot; conception of consciousness, by which awareness is essentially private and beyond the reach of scientific scrutiny, is contrasted with an &quot;outer&quot; conception which allows that consciousness is intrinsically linked with capacities for intelligent behavior; and finally (v) &quot;easy&quot; and &quot;hard&quot; questions of consciousness are distinguished, the former involving the underlying neurobiology of wakefulness and awareness, and the latter the allegedly more mysterious process by which biological processes generate experience - the question of whether this final distinction is valid is a focus of current debate. Varied interests converge on the study of consciousness, from the sciences and the humanities, creating scope for interdisciplinary misunderstandings, but also for a fruitful dialog.
Purkinje cells (PCs) present a unique cellular profile in both the cerebellum and the brain. Because they represent the only output cell of the cerebellar cortex, they play a vital role in the normal function of the cerebellum. Interestingly, PCs are highly susceptible to a variety of pathological conditions that may involve glutamate-mediated 'excitotoxicity', a term coined to describe an excessive release of glutamate, and a subsequent over-activation of excitatory amino acid (NMDA, AMPA, and kainite) receptors. Mature PCs, however, lack functional NMDA receptors, the means by which Ca(2+) enters the cell in classic hippocampal and cortical models of excitotoxicity. In PCs, glutamate predominantly mediates its effects, first via a rapid influx of Ca(2+)through voltage-gated calcium channels, caused by the depolarization of the membrane after AMPA receptor activation (and through Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors themselves), and second, via a delayed release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores. Although physiological levels of intracellular free Ca(2+) initiate vital second messenger signaling pathways in PCs, excessive Ca(2+) influx can detrimentally alter dendritic spine morphology via interactions with the neuronal cytoskeleton, and thus can perturb normal synaptic function. PCs possess various calcium-binding proteins, such as calbindin-D28K and parvalbumin, and glutamate transporters, in order to prevent glutamate from exerting deleterious effects. Bergmann glia are gaining recognition as key players in the clearance of extracellular glutamate; these cells are also high in S-100beta, a protein with both neurodegenerative and neuroprotective abilities. In this review, we discuss PC-specific mechanisms of glutamate-mediated excitotoxic cell death, the relationship between Ca(2+) and cytoskeleton, and the implications of glutamate, and S-100beta for pathological conditions, such as traumatic brain injury.
Cerebellar dysfunction in multiple sclerosis (MS) is a significant contributor to disability, is relatively refractory to symptomatic therapy, and often progresses despite treatment with disease-modifying agents. Thus, there is a need for better understanding of its pathophysiology. This chapter reviews a growing body of evidence which suggests that mis-tuning of Purkinje cells, due to expression of an abnormal repertoire of sodium channels, contributes to cerebellar deficits in MS. Within the normal nervous system, sodium channel Na(v)1.8 is expressed in a highly specific manner within spinal sensory and trigeminal neurons, and is not present within Purkinje cells, Na(v)1.8 mRNA and protein are, however, expressed within Purkinje cells both in models of MS (experimenal autoimmume encephalomyelitis; EAE), and in postmortem tissue from humans with MS. Expression of Na(v)1.8 within Purkinje cells in vitro alters electrogenesis in these cells in several ways: first, by increasing duration and amplitude of action potentials; second, by decreasing the proportion of action potentials that are conglomerate and the number of spikes per conglomerate action potential; and third, by supporting sustained, pacemaker-like impulse trains in response to depolarization, which are not seen in the absence of Na(v)1.8. Similar changes are observed in recordings from Purkinje cells in vivo from mice with EAE. Taken together, these results suggest that expression of Na(v)1.8 within Purkinje cells distorts their pattern of firing in MS.
We used the juxtacellular recording and labeling technique of Pinault (1996) in the uvula/nodulus of the ketamine anesthetized rat in an attempt to link different patterns of spontaneous activity with different types of morphologically identified cerebellar cortical interneurons. Cells displaying a somewhat irregular, syncopated cadence of spontaneous activity averaging 4-10 Hz could, upon successful entrainment and visualization, be morphologically identified as Golgi cells. Spontaneously firing cells with a highly or fairly regular firing rate of 10-35 Hz turned out to be unipolar brush cells. We also found indications that other types of cerebellar cortical neurons might also be distinguished on the basis of the characteristics of their spontaneous firing. Comparison of the interspike interval histograms of spontaneous activity obtained in the anaesthetized rat with those obtained in the awake rabbit points to a way whereby the behaviorally related modulation of specific types of interneurons can be studied. In particular, the spontaneous activity signatures of Golgi cells and unipolar brush cells anatomically identified in the uvula/nodulus of the anaesthetized rat are remarkably similar to the spontaneous activity patterns of some units we have recorded in the flocculus of the awake rabbit. The spontaneous activity patterns of at least some types of cerebellar interneurons clearly have the potential to serve as identifying signatures in behaving animals.
Different forms of synaptic plasticity in the cerebellum are mediated by metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). At parallel fiber (PF) to Purkinje cell (PC) synapses activation of mGluR gives rise to a well known slow synaptic current inhibited by antagonists of mGluR1. The distribution of mGluR types in the climbing fiber (CF) to PC synapses is not well known. However, a mGluR1alpha-mediated all-or-none postsynaptic current was also demonstrated at the CF-PC synapse (Dzubay and Otis, Neuron 36, 1159, 2002). Using whole cell patch-clamp recording from PCs in rat cerebellar slices with AMPA receptors blocked and glutamate uptake impaired we demonstrate a more complex pharmacology of a current obtained by single or train CF stimulation. The mGluR1 specific antagonist CPCCOEt in a group of cells suppressed this response while in a similar number of other cells it induced a potentiating effect. The antagonists of mGluR groups II and III (LY341495 and MSOP, respectively) predominantly suppressed the current. The ambiguous effect of CPCCOEt was checked by measuring the paired-pulse depression of the CF EPSC, which was not changed with the antagonist in normal as well as in low (0.5 mM) external Ca(2+) (used to prevent saturation of AMPARs), thus excluding a presynaptic effect. However, CPCCOEt induced a rise in the amplitude (by approximately 50%) as well as a prolongation (p&lt;0.05) of the decay time of CF EPSCs at normal 2 mM Ca(2+), i.e. under conditions of AMPAR saturation, thus indicating an effect of postsynaptic origin. In 0.5 mM Ca(2+) the decay of CF EPSCs was longer but it was also significantly prolonged (p?0.01) by CPCCOEt. However, the CF EPSC amplitude was not significantly affected indicating an underlying Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism. Thus, the pharmacology of the PC mGluR-mediated response points to a dual postsynaptic role of mGluR1 giving rise to a slow postsynaptic current but also regulating other presumably mGluR-dependent currents via second messenger molecules and Ca(2+). The additional electrophysiological role of mGluR II &amp; III types was also indicated. Such a complex regulatory mechanism may have an important role in the mGluR-dependent forms of homosynaptic plasticity and motor learning at the CF-PC synapse.
This study aims to demonstrate stepphase-dependent modulation in the gain of cutaneously triggered reflexes in the freely locomoting rat. Electromyographic recordings of biceps femoris (mainly involved in knee flexion) and gastrocnemius (mainly involved in ankle extension) muscles were continuously monitored during locomotion and cutaneous reflexes were induced by subcutaneously placed stimulation electrodes in the lateral malleolal region. The results show that the reflex responses in both muscles during locomotion were generally reduced compared to reflexes induces in rest. For the biceps femoris reduction of reflex gain was highest during the stance phase whereas for the gastrocnemius the period of highest depression was found during the swing phase. We conclude that stepphase-dependent modulation of peripheral reflexes can be measured in freely locomoting rats and generally concur with previous studies in cat and man that this type of modulation may be functionally important for maintaining and adjusting gait. Moreover, although the mechanism of inducing and maintaining this modulation is not fully known, it is now open to experimental investigation in rodents.
Electronic coupling in the inferior olive is supposed to underlie the synchrony of complex spike activities of Purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex. Here we show a computational model which suggests that the olivary gap junctions may synchronize the input rather than the neuronal output. As such, coupling may influence the absolute moment in time of the complex spike activity rather than their synchrony.


The generation of cell diversity from undifferentiated progenitors is regulated by interdependent mechanisms, including cell intrinsic programs and environmental cues. This interaction can be investigated by means of heterochronic/heterotopic transplantation, which allows to examine the behaviour of precursor cells in an unusual environment. The cerebellum provides an ideal model to study cell specification, because its neurons originate according to a well-defined timetable and they can be are readily recognised by morphological features and specific markers. Cerebellar progenitors transplanted to the embryonic cerebellum develop fully mature cerebellar neurons, which often integrate in the host circuitry in a highly specific manner. In extracerebellar locations, cerebellar progenitors preferentially settle in caudal CNS regions where they exclusively acquire cerebellar identities. By contrast, neocortical precursors preferentially settle in rostral regions and fail to develop hindbrain phenotypes. The phenotypic repertoire generated by transplanted cerebellar progenitors is strictly dependent on their age. Embryonic progenitors originate all mature cerebellar cells, whereas postnatal ones exclusively generate later-born types, such as molecular layer interneurons and granule cells. Together, these observations foster the hypothesis that neural progenitors are first specified towards region-specific phenotypes along the rostro-caudal axis of the neural tube. Thereafter, the developmental potential of progenitor cells is progressively restricted towards later generated types. Such a progressive specification of precursor cells in space and time is stably transmitted to their progeny and it cannot be modified by local cues, when these cells are confronted with heterotopic and/or heterochronic environments.



For several decades it has been known that mental retardation is associated with abnormalities in dendrites and dendritic spines. The recent cloning of eight genes which cause nonspecific mental retardation when mutated, provides an important insight into the cellular mechanisms that result in the dendritic abnormalities underlying mental retardation. Three of the encoded proteins, oligophrenin1, PAK3 and alphaPix, interact directly with Rho GTPases. Rho GTPases are key signaling proteins which integrate extracellular and intracellular signals to orchestrate coordinated changes in the actin cytoskeleton, essential for directed neurite outgrowth and the generation/rearrangement of synaptic connectivity. Although many details of the cell biology of Rho signaling in the CNS are as yet unclear, a picture is unfolding showing how mutations that cause abnormal Rho signaling result in abnormal neuronal connectivity which gives rise to deficient cognitive functioning in humans.
Paired organotypic explants from rat occipital cortex were cultured for up to three weeks in the presence of selective blockers of amino acid receptor blockers, during which period spontaneous action potential generation was monitored electrophysiologically. In contrast to isolated explants (Corner, M.A., van Pelt, J., Wolters, P.S., Baker, R.E.and Nuytinck, R.H. (2002) Physiological e.ects of sustained blockade of excitatory synaptic transmission on spontaneously active developing neuronal networks--an inquiry into the reciprocal linkage between intrinsic biorhythms and neuroplasticity in early ontogeny. Neurosci. Biobehav. Rev., 26: 127-185), which upregulated their initially depressed spontaneous bursting activity only under conditions of N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blockade, cross-innervated co-cultures showed a large degree of functional recovery even when combined NMDA and AMPA receptor blockade was carried out. This compensatory activity could be eliminated by acute addition of a selective kainate receptor blocker to the medium. When kainate along with AMPA and NMDA receptor mediated activity was chronically suppressed, however, considerable functional recovery--in the form of recurrent burst discharges--took place gradually over a period of three weeks in vitro. These spontaneous bursts disappeared rapidly upon treatment with the muscarinic receptor blocker, atropine, but continuous low-level firing emerged at the same time. Similar &quot;tonic&quot; background activity was induced in control cultures as well, but without any noticeable reduction in burst discharges. Co-cultured neocortex explants, in which cyto-morphological maturation proceeds to a far greater degree than in isolated explants (Baker, R.E.and van Pelt, J. (1997) Co-cultured but not isolated cortical explants display normal dendritic development: a longterm quantitative study. Dev. Brain Res., 98: 21-27) are evidently capable of an astonishing degree of functional compensation for loss of excitatory synaptic drive during development. It could be shown, furthermore, that such homeostatic responses are not mediated largely by a weakening of inhibitory mechanisms in the absence of spontaneous firing. Chronic inhibitory synaptic blockade, on the other hand, led to intensified bursting activity which gradually normalized over a 3-week culture period. The cellular basis for this reversal of the disinhibited state, as well as for the residual neuronal firing even after cholinergic mechanisms have been largely eliminated, is at present unknown. The degree to which immature cortical networks attempt to compensate for altered levels of physiological activity, as documented in the present report, is another indication of how important such activity can be for normal development (see Corner, M.A., van Pelt, J., Wolters, P.S., Baker, R.E. and Nuytinck, R.H. (2002) Physiological e.ects of sustained blockade of excitatory synaptic transmission on spontaneously active developing neuronal networks-an inquiry into the reciprocal linkage between intrinsic biorhythms and neuroplasticity in early ontogeny. Neurosci. Biobehav. Rev., 26: 127-185).. At the same time, the large variations in overall firing levels and &quot;macro-scale&quot; temporal patterns from culture to culture within a given series, despite all attempts at identical preparation of the explants, can only mean that the &quot;set-points&quot; for such regulation are themselves subject to unknown ontogenetic factors which, apparently, are nonuniformly distributed even within a restricted region of the neocortex. On the other hand, it was striking to note that, regardless of age or treatment, an unexpected degree of consistency in temporal patterning existed at &quot;mini-&quot; and &quot;micro-&quot; time-scales (viz., EEG delta and beta frequency ranges, respectively) even when network bursting tendencies became greatly reduced in favor of tonic firing.
Developmental upregulation of the GABAA receptor alpha1 subunit causes a faster decay of GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in the visual cortex around the time of eye opening. In alpha1 deficient mice, a juvenile type of GABAA receptors is retained during maturation. As a result the decay time of the IPSCs is longer in alpha1-/- mice than in WT mice during the whole life span of the mice. Hence they form a valuable mouse model for studies on cellular aspects of neuronal network functioning. Using voltage sensitive dye imaging methods, we monitored the spatiotemporal excitation patterning in visual cortex slices upon local stimulation of the network. We found that in the alpha1-/- mice, the ability of the network to fire synchronously at gamma-frequencies (20-50 Hz) is diminished. This finding indicates that early onset of GABA synapse maturation is required for the normal neuronal network function in the maturating visual cortex.
When dissociated cortical tissue is brought into culture, neurons readily grow out by forming axonal and dendritic arborizations and synaptic connections. These developing neuronal networks in vitro display spontaneous firing activity from about the end of the first week in vitro. When cultured on multielectrode arrays firing activity can be recorded from many neurons simultaneously over long periods of time. These experimental approaches provide valuable data for studying firing dynamics in neuronal networks in relation to an ongoing development of neurons and synaptic connectivity in the network. This chapter summarizes recent findings on the characteristics and developmental changes in the spontaneous firing dynamics. These changes include long-lasting transient periods of increased firing at individual sites on a time scale of days to weeks, and an age-specific repetitive pattern of synchronous network firing (network bursts) on a time scale of seconds. Especially the spatio-temporal organization of firing within network bursts showed great stability over many hours. In addition, a progressive day-to-day evolution was observed, with an initial broadening of the burst firing rate profile during the 3rd week in vitro (WIV) and a pattern of abrupt onset and precise spike timing from the 5th WIV onwards. These developmental changes are discussed in the light of structural changes in the network and activity-dependent plasticity mechanisms. Preliminary findings are presented on the pattern of spike sequences within network burst, as well as the effect of external stimulation on the spatio-temporal organization within network bursts.
The association between smoking and depression has been widely investigated. Most of these reports suggest that nicotine (NIC) may act as an antidepressant. To examine the suggested antidepressant effect of nicotine and its possible interaction with the serotonergic system, we assessed the effect of nicotine and fluoxetine (FLX) in an animal model of depression induced by neonatal treatment with clomipramine (CLI) and submitted to the forced swim test (FST). Results corroborated that CLI-treated rats displayed higher levels of immobility. After the administration of nicotine (0.4 mg/kg sc) acutely (1 day), subchonically (7 days), and chronically (14 days), CLI-treated rats significantly reduced the immobility and increased swimming without affecting climbing. These effects were similar to the effects induced for subchronic and chronic administration of the antidepressant fluoxetine (5 mg/kg sc), a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor. However, fluoxetine failed to affect immobility when it was administered acutely. No synergism was observed when both drugs were administered simultaneously. The present results further corroborate the antidepressant action of nicotine and fluoxetine. The increase of swimming during the FST has been linked to an increase of serotonergic activity. Thus, it could be possible that the antidepressant action of nicotine is mediated by the serotonergic system.
IGF-1 (Insulin-like growth factor-1) is a growth factor whose biological activity at cellular level is regulated by 6 binding proteins (IGFBs); one of them, IGFBP-3, is the most abundant in blood. Both IGF-1 and IGFBP-3 are expressed by bone cells and may be important factors in bone remodelling (1-5). The aims of this study were to evaluate the presence of IGF-1 and IGFBP-3 in crevicular fluid and to assess whether their levels changed during orthodontic tooth movement in patients under orthodontic treatment. Orthodontic movement alters alveolar bone remodelling. Changes in the amounts of IGF-1 and IGFBP-3 in crevicular fluid may reflect changes in alveolar bone remodelling.
Functional expression of voltage-gated sodium channel alpha-subunits (VGSCalphas), specifically Nav1.7, is associated with strong metastatic potential in prostate cancer (CaP) in vitro. Furthermore, VGSC activity in vitro directly potentiates processes integral to metastasis. To investigate VGSCalpha expression in CaP in vivo, immunohistochemistry and real-time PCR were performed on human prostate biopsies (n&gt;20). VGSCalpha immunostaining was evident in prostatic tissues and markedly stronger in CaP vs non-CaP patients. Importantly, RT-PCRs identified Nav1.7 as the VGSCalpha most strikingly upregulated (approximately 20-fold) in CaP, and the resultant receiver-operating characteristics curve demonstrated high diagnostic efficacy for the disease. It is concluded that VGSCalpha expression increases significantly in CaP in vivo and that Nav1.7 is a potential functional diagnostic marker.
Varied research findings have been taken to support the claim that humans' representation of the self is &quot;special,&quot; that is, that it emerges from systems that are physically and functionally distinct from those used for more general purpose cognitive processing. The authors evaluate this claim by reviewing the relevant literatures and addressing the criteria for considering a system special, the various operationalizations of self, and how the studies' findings relate to the conclusions drawn. The authors conclude that many of the claims for the special status of self-related processing are premature given the evidence and that the various self-related research programs do not seem to be illuminating a unitary, common system, despite individuals' subjective experience of a unified self.

The malleability of stereotyping matters in social psychology and in society. Previous work indicates rapid amygdala and cognitive responses to racial out-groups, leading some researchers to view these responses as inevitable. In this study, the methods of social-cognitive neuroscience were used to investigate how social goals control prejudiced responses. Participants viewed photographs of unfamiliar Black and White faces, under each of three social goals: social categorization (by age), social individuation (vegetable preference), and simple visual inspection (detecting a dot). One study recorded brain activity in the amygdala using functional magnetic resonance imaging, and another measured cognitive activation of stereotypes by lexical priming. Neither response to photos of the racial out-group was inevitable; instead, both responses depended on perceivers' current social-cognitive goal.




Relevance of an article is a highly desirable yet hardly predictable quality at the time of its publication. Article relevance is frequently measured by the impact factor of the journal where the article is published. Furthermore, impact factor, citation index and citation analysis are used as a measure of research progress and scientific wealth of a nation. The wisdom and significance of this approach to relevance is debatable and thus discussed here. In 2004, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics published a variety of articles which, in the author's view, are clinically relevant. Several selected clinically relevant issues reviewed in this article include: the conceptualization of fibromyalgia as a stress disorder; the psychosocial impact and psychosocial interventions in cancer; the impact of alexithymia on patient care; the possible relationship between depression and nutrition (namely intake of folate and pyridoxal phosphate); the significance of hypercoagulability in panic-like anxiety; the questionable value of single isomer drugs, and the relevance and adequacy of clinimetrics versus psychometrics in clinical research. The reviewed issues seem to be relevant to clinical practice, research or both, but also to our critical thinking, and the critical review of the developments in psychiatry and psychology.
Of the existing atlases of the brain anatomy and cerebrovasculature, none integrates the anatomy and vasculature by providing for direct manipulation of three-dimensional (3D) cerebral models. An atlas-based application was developed in four steps: (a) construction of 3D anatomic models, (b) construction of 3D vascular models, (c) interactive spatial coregistration of the anatomic and vascular models, and (d) development of functionality and a user interface for the application. Three-dimensional anatomic models were imported from an electronic brain atlas database derived from classic print atlases. A novel vascular modeling technique was developed and applied to create a vascular atlas from magnetic resonance angiographic data. The use of 3D polygonal models allows smooth navigation (rotation, zooming, panning) and interactive labeling of anatomic structures and vascular segments. This application enables the user to examine 3D anatomic structures and 3D cerebral vasculature and to gain a better understanding of the relationships between the two. The combined anatomic-vascular atlas is a user-friendly neuroeducational tool that is useful for medical students and neuroscience researchers as well as for educators in preparing teaching materials.
In this study we have investigated whether micro-solution isoelectric focusing (microsol-IEF) can be used as a pre-fractionation step prior to liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) and if extensive sample purification of the different fractions is required. We found that, in spite of the high concentrations of buffer and detergents, no clean up of the digested microsol-IEF fractions was necessary before analysis by LC/MS/MS. We also concluded that it is possible to identify at least twice as many proteins in a glioma cell lysate with the combination of microsol-IEF and LC/MS/MS than with LC/MS/MS alone. Furthermore, most of the proteins that were identified from one microsol-IEF fraction by using analytical narrow-range two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) and peptide mass fingerprinting with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOFMS) were also identified by LC/MS/MS. Finally, we used the combination of microsol-IEF and LC/MS/MS to compare two sample preparation methods for glioma cells and found that several nuclear, mitochondria, and endoplasmic reticulum proteins were only present in the sample that had been subjected to lipid extraction by incubating the homogenized cells in chloroform/methanol/water.
The resource investment required to characterise the metabolic fate of a compound is relatively large, meaning that within a drug discovery environment relatively few compounds are characterised in depth. Rate-limiting steps include the setting up of a complex array of mass spectrometry experiments and the subsequent analysis of the large data sets produced. We describe here a strategy for the evaluation of metabolic routes using full-scan high-resolution liquid chromatography/quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (LC/QToFMS) with automated data analysis using Metabolynx, a commercially available software package. Data from several structurally diverse compounds taken from the literature illustrate that, with careful setting of key parameters, this approach is able to indicate the presence of a wide range of metabolites with only a limited requirement for manual intervention.
Protein oligomerization and aggregation are key events in age-related neurodegenerative disorders, causing neuronal disturbances including microtubule destabilization, transport failure and loss of synaptic integrity that precede cell death. The abnormal buildup of proteins can overload digestive systems and this, in turn, activates lysosomes in different disease states and stimulates the inducible class of lysosomal protein degradation, macroautophagy. These responses were studied in a hippocampal slice model well known for amyloidogenic species, tau aggregates, and ubiquitinated proteins in response to chloroquine-mediated disruption of degradative processes. Chloroquine was found to cause a pronounced appearance of prelysosomal autophagic vacuoles in pyramidal neurons. The vacuoles and dense bodies were concentrated in the basal pole of neurons and in dystrophic neurites. In hippocampal slice cultures treated with Abeta(142), ultrastructural changes were also induced. Autophagic responses may be an attempt to compensate for protein accumulation, however, they were not sufficient to prevent axonopathy indicated by swellings, transport deficits, and reduced expression of synaptic components. Additional chloroquine effects included activation of cathepsin D and other lysosomal hydrolases. Abeta(142) produced similar lysosomal activation, and the effects of Abeta(142) and chloroquine were not additive, suggesting a common mechanism. Activated levels of cathepsin D were enhanced with the lysosomal modulator Z-Phe-Ala-diazomethylketone (PADK). PADK-mediated lysosomal enhancement corresponded with the restoration of synaptic markers, in association with stabilization of microtubules and transport capability. To show that PADK can modulate the lysosomal system in vivo, IP injections were administered over a 5-day period, resulting in a dose-dependent increase in lysosomal hydrolases. The findings indicate that degradative responses can be modulated to promote synaptic maintenance.



Symptoms of constipation are commonly seen in medical practice. Once other medical causes have been excluded, distinguishing patients who have constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) from those with functional constipation has been considered useful in terms of planning management. However, the criteria used to distinguish IBS from functional constipation are arguably arbitrary, and the availability of new therapeutic approaches may render such distinctions of little practical relevance. In this article, the author presents a review of the management implications of differentiating constipation-predominant IBS from functional constipation.

A 15-year-old boy diagnosed with a severe, active, and aggressive form of multiple sclerosis (MS) failed conventional, evidence-based therapy. The optimal treatment of the child or adolescent failing federally approved therapy for MS is unclear, similar to the situation in adults. This case history demonstrates that aggressive immunosuppression might be of at least short-term value in controlling disease acutely in an adolescent, as in adults with MS, when evidence-based therapies do not provide an adequate response.

In recent years, the amygdala has emerged as a critical site of plasticity for the acquisition of various forms of Pavlovian learning, either aversive or appetitive. In most of these models, the critical site of plasticity has been localized to the basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA). In contrast, the central nucleus of the amygdala has emerged as a passive relay of potentiated BLA outputs toward downstream effectors. At odds with this view, however, recent studies suggest that the central nucleus may also be a site of plasticity and play an active role in some forms of Pavlovian learning. The present review summarizes the evidence supporting this possibility.

During development thalamocortical (TC) axons establish lamina-specific connections with cortical cells, and in later developmental stages TC projections are modified by activity-dependent processes. Recent studies have demonstrated that brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 are expressed in the cortex with distinct developmental time courses, and are involved not only in the formation of the TC projection but also in the subsequent refinement processes. Evidence further suggests that these actions of neurotrophins are achieved in cooperation with membrane-associated molecules expressed in cortical cells.
Natural antisense RNAs are endogenous molecules that are complementary to RNA transcripts of already established function. They were discovered first in prokaryotes in which they are now recognised as an important component of molecular mechanisms involved in the regulation of gene expression. Recently, through the cumulative efforts of molecular biologists and bioinformaticians, natural antisense RNAs have been demonstrated in significant numbers in eukaryotic systems also. Probably the most exciting outcome of these studies is that natural antisense RNAs are particularly prevalent in the nervous system. Here we discuss the major known types of natural antisense RNAs in eukaryotic systems and focus on their potential roles in the regulation of gene expression in the brain.
Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying age-related memory impairment (AMI) is important not only from a scientific viewpoint but also for the development of therapeutics that may eventually lead to the development of drugs to combat memory loss. AMI has been generally considered to be an overall or nonspecific decay of memory processes that results from dysfunction of neural networks. However, behavioral genetics to test this hypothesis have not been performed previously, due, in part, to the long lifespan of animal models. Using Drosophila, the first extensive behavioral-genetic characterization of AMI has been carried out. In Drosophila, memory acquired after a single olfactory conditioning paradigm has three distinct phases: short-term memory (STM), middle-term memory (MTM), and longer-lasting anesthesia-resistant memory (ARM). Significantly, AMI results from the specific decay of only one memory component, amnesiac-dependent MTM, and not other components. Since amnesiac encodes peptides that enhance adenylyl cyclase activity, these studies suggest the importance of the cAMP signaling pathway in AMI in Drosophila, a finding consistent with several models of AMI in mammals. Although many advances have been made in the study of pathways involved in aging, much remains to be elucidated on how these pathways affect memory formation to cause AMI. Due to its short lifespan, powerful genetics, and well-characterized and conserved pathways involved in memory and lifespan, Drosophila will be a useful model system for studying the molecular mechanisms underlying this process.
Aging is associated with impairments in certain aspects of cognition, especially learning and memory. The hippocampus is a structure intimately involved with certain aspects of learning and memory, and is especially vulnerable to the course of aging. Recent findings, primarily from cognitive, magnetic resonance imaging, and magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies, but also briefly physiology and neurogenesis work, are reviewed. Evidence suggests that age-related impairment of hippocampus-dependent cognition is associated with changes on various levels of investigation in both humans and non-human animals. Also, the emphasis is placed on tasks and techniques that can be used to test both non-human and human animals in an attempt to bridge the gulf between the vast bodies of knowledge about the hippocampus in different species. To the extent that changes with normal aging are understood, they may aid in diagnosis, prevention, and/or treatment of age-related learning and memory deficits in both normal and pathological aging. In addition, studies of the aging hippocampus may have a side-effect in leading to a better understanding of the mechanisms that underlie learning and memory in general.
Searching for the neural code underlying consciousness and cognition is one of the most important activities in contemporary neuroscience. Research with neuronal oscillations at the level of single-neuron, local cell assemblies, and network system have provided invaluable insights into different mechanisms of synaptic interactions involved in the emergence of cognitive acts. A cognitive neuroscience of conscious experience is gradually emerging from behavioral and neuroimaging studies, which can be successfully complemented with the quantitative EEG findings discussed here. This review is an attempt to highlight the value of state-dependent changes in human neurophysiology for a better understanding of the neurobiological substrate underlying those aspects of cognition drastically affected by sleep states. Recent advances related to synchronization mechanisms potentially involved in brain integration processes are discussed, emphasizing the value of scalp and intracranial EEG recordings at determining local and large-scale dynamics in the human brain. Evidence supporting the critical role of state-dependent synchrony in brain integration comes mainly from studies on the theta and gamma oscillations across the wake-sleep continuum, as revealed by human intracranial recordings. This review blends results from different levels of analysis with the firm conviction that state-dependent brain dynamics at different levels of neural integration can provide a deeper understanding of neurobiological correlates of consciousness and sleep functions.
We report a 39-year-old woman who presented with only dizziness and vertigo for 2 months. Neurological examination revealed no abnormalities except for hypereflexia on the left side extremities. Neurootological examination revealed no abnormalities. MRI of the brain demonstrated patchy hyperintensity areas on FLAIR images in the periventricular white matter and external capsule. Her grandmother had cerebral infarction and her father is suffering from multi-infarct dementia. Her second older sister who similarly had dizziness and vertigo demonstrated similar MRI findings characterized by patchy hyperintensity areas in the white matter and external capsule even though she had no risk factors for atherosclerosis. Her third older sister also had dizziness and vertigo and had patchy hyperintensity areas in the white matter in her brain MRI even though she had no risk factors for atherosclerosis. Based on this family history, we suspected that she had cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL). Mutational analysis of Notch3 gene disclosed a novel missense mutation substituting arginine for cysteine at codon 206 (C206R) in exon 4 of the Notch3 gene, confirming the diagnosis of CADASIL. Interestingly, similar dizziness and vertigo were present not only in the patient, but also in the other two sisters who had the same gene mutation as the patient. This report supports the idea that the external capsule lesion is one of the signs suggestive of CADASIL as a diagnosis.
The last ten years of the 20th century is called in neuroscience &quot;decade of the brain&quot;. This period has brought many new antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) to the practising physician. New AEDs include: vigabatrin, lamotrigine, topiramate, tiagabine, gabapentin, oxcarbazepine, levetiracetam and zonisamide (not registered in Poland). The development of these drugs was under the current epilepsy theory (balance-disturbances between inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmitters in the brain). Mechanism of action of the new AEDs is due to increase of the GABA-system activity and/or reaction with ion-channels events in neurons. The aim of the study was an overview of the current literature on the new AEDs in the treatment of seizures and epileptic syndromes. Data from literature show that the new AEDs are better tolerated, have fewer drug interactions and seem to affect cognitive functions to a lesser degree compared to the conventional drugs. Most of them are recommended to an add-on therapy of partial seizures with/without second generalization, although there are more evidences on efficacy of new AEDs in monotherapy. The new AEDs seemed to be similar to the conventional drugs in efficacy, but superior in tolerability. New AEDs with more selective activity and lower toxicity have been significant improved the quality of life in the epileptic patients. Numerous chemical compounds with potential antiepileptic activity are in experimental and clinical development.






We assessed the vividness of mental imagery in schizophrenia patients in the context of psychopathology and cognitive abilities. A questionnaire on the vividness of mental imagery (Questionnaire Upon Mental Imagery [QMI]) and a hallucination scale were administered to 50 patients with paranoid schizophrenia. The related perceptual and cognitive skills, general intelligence level, and psychomotor speed were measured as covariates with a battery of performance tests. All measures were statistically compared to a group of 50 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. The schizophrenia group obtained higher values both for vividness of imagery and occurrence of hallucinations. These differences were independent of general intelligence and psychomotor speed and did not correlate with individual psychopathology. The correlation between the hallucination and imagery scales themselves was very low. These results suggest that patients with schizophrenia experience a significantly greater vividness of mental imagery than healthy controls, which does not seem to be an effect of other group differences or individual psychopathology (e.g., frequency of hallucinations). Vividness of mental imagery might thus prove to be an independent trait marker of schizophrenia.
In their natural environment, organisms receive information through multiple sensory channels and these inputs from different sensory systems are routinely combined into integrated percepts. Previously, we reported that in a population of schizophrenics, deficits in audiovisual integration were observed for complex stimuli (auditory and visual syllables), but not for more simple ones (beeps and light flashes). Here, we investigated multisensory integration of emotional information in a group of schizophrenic patients. In Experiment 1, we found a reduced effect of an emotional voice on the categorization of a facial expression. In Experiment 2, the reverse test situation was presented, and, here, we observed an exaggerated effect of a face expression on the categorization of an emotional voice. Results are discussed in the light of current models of multisensory integration and their relevance for schizophrenia.


The neurosciences to understand the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders such as depression and schizophrenia were started from the analysis of neurotransmitter function change, and proceed to the cellular signaling change in the brains. In the next step, it developed to the studies of neuroplasticity change through expressions various cytokines and transcriptional factor regulations. Recently, the existence of neural stem cells and lineage of stem cells to neurons are identified in the adult mammalian brains. In addition, since the brain structural changes in depression and schizophrenia have well defined by the development of neuroimaging analysis, many researchers have been suggested the relationship between the pathophysiology of these disorders and the dysfunction of neurogenesis which strongly affects the maintenance and repair of brain neuronal network. In this report, we describe the new strategy and approach to the investigation of the treatment of psychiatric illness, and introduce our present study of the way to refine the neural network through promoted actions on stem cell functions such as differentiation to neurons.
Morphometric studies using magnetic resonance imaging have reported smaller than normal volumes of the hippocampus in stress-related psychiatric disorders such as major depression, post-traumatic stress disorders (PTSD) etc... On the other hand, epidemiological studies have suggested that early childhood trauma including child abuse and sexual abuse is associated with markedly elevated rates of major depression and PTSD. Psychoanalysist and child psychiatrists have reported that mother-child relationship and fostering environment in early childhood strongly affect the later mental development and increase the prevalence rate of various psychiatric disorders, but its biological mechanism has not been elucidated. Recent progress of neuroscience research has brought a possibility to elucidate molecular biological mechanism of this developmental psychological issue. The author reviews recent neuroscience researches focused on the effect of early childhood trauma on the stress vulnerability and the pathogenesis of stress-related psychiatric disorders.
Recent developments in neuroscience, especially in neuropsychology and neuroimaging, have shed light on cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia. Cognitive dysfunction may be the underlying basis of schizophrenic symptoms and also the vulnerability marker such as an endophenotype used in genetic studies. Among various cognitive functions, attention is currently focused on &quot;social cognition&quot; as a new realm of research which it may determine the social and occupational abilities of patients with schizophrenia. Recent studies indicate that the second-generation antipsychotics may improve some aspects of cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia. This urges us to reveal whether such drugs also improve the long-term prognosis as well as quality of life of the patients. Although cognitive function has usually been evaluated by neuropsychological tests, it is advisable to employ electroencephalogram especially event-related potential, which has high time resolution, in combination with neuroimaging with high spatial resolution. In this paper, studies with event-related potentials including P50, MMN, Nd, NA, P300, and N400 are reviewed and we propose a pathophysiological model of schizophrenia from the viewpoint of information processing. The model consists of a controlled processing system (e. g., perceptual organization, and semantic integration) and regulatory system which is mainly automatic processing and enables the controlled processing to be efficient. We postulate that both systems will be primarily affected in schizophrenia and that disruptions in the regulatory system from any cause will impose. further burden on the controlled system and lead to psychosis. Finally, comprehensive and sophisticated assessment of these systems will be required in schizophrenia research.





The perception of the color of a surface can be influenced by many factors including its material properties and the composition of the illuminant. McCollough demonstrated that sensory conditioning could also influence the perception of surface color by inducing a long-lasting pattern specific color aftereffect. This effect has been extensively studied since its original report and a number of increasingly complex explanations have been proposed. In this article I examine the temporal properties of a simple learning model of the McCollough effect (ME). This model has previously been used to account for quantitative data sets obtained from a series of monocular and binocular variants of the ME. The model replicates the acquisition and decay of the ME, pre- and post-induction interference effects, and can also simulate the effects of various cholinergic and anticholinergic drugs that have been shown to influence ME induction and decay.
Many sports are associated with a variety of peripheral nervous system (PNS) injuries specific to that sport. A systematic review of sport-specific PNS injuries has not been attempted previously, and will assist in the understanding of morbidities and mortality associated with particular sporting activities, either professional or amateur. A systematic review of the literature using PubMed (1965-2003) was performed examining all known sports and a range of possible PNS injuries attributable to that sport. Numerous sporting activities (53) were found to have associated PNS injuries. The sports most commonly reported with injuries were football, hockey, soccer, baseball and winter activities. There are a number of sporting activities with injuries unique to the individual sport. This review should be of assistance for the neurologist, neurosurgeon, orthopaedic surgeon, physiatrist, sports medicine doctor, athletic trainer and general physician in contact with athletes possessing neurological injuries.
Many sports have been associated with a variety of neurological injuries affecting the central nervous system (CNS), with some injuries specific to that sport. A systematic review of sport-specific CNS injuries has not been attempted previously, and could assist in the understanding of morbidity and mortality associated with particular sporting activities, either professional or amateur. A systematic review of the literature was performed using PubMed (1965-2003) examining all known sports and a range of possible CNS injuries attributable to that sport. Numerous sporting activities (45) have associated CNS injuries as reported within the literature. The sports most commonly associated with CNS injuries are: football, boxing, hockey, use of a trampoline, and various winter activities. A number of sporting activities are associated with unique CNS injuries or injury-related diseases such as heat stroke in auto racing, vertebral artery dissection in the martial arts, and dementia pugilistica in boxing. Neurological injuries of the CNS due to sport comprise a wide collection of maladies that are important for the neurologist, neurosurgeon, orthopaedic surgeon, physiatrist, sports medicine doctor, athletic trainer and general physician to recognise.
Conventional clinical procedures for assessment of stuttering are reported to have poor reliability. Time interval analysis procedures have been reported to produce greater reliability than the conventional procedures. In time interval procedures, successive intervals of the same duration are extracted from a sample of speech and judged by participants as stuttered or fluent. There is a problem insofar as the amount of speech judged stuttered depends on the length of the interval used. This problem is illustrated in an experiment in which 1-s and 5-s intervals were drawn from the same samples of speech and judged by participants as stuttered or fluent. It is also shown that the problem of lack of sensitivity when longer intervals are used is more acute for individuals who exhibit severe stuttering. Since ability to detect changes in stuttering rate is dependent on the length of interval used (as well as stuttering severity), the procedure can highlight or disguise changes in stuttering rate depending on parameterization of interval length and choice of participants to study. Thus, use of different length intervals across studies can distort whether particular treatments have an effect on speech control. Therefore, it is concluded that time interval analysis, as it is currently used, is an unsatisfactory procedure. If a standard-length interval could be agreed, comparison across studies or analyses would be possible.
This paper investigates whether stuttering rates in English-speaking adults and children are influenced by phonological and morphological complexity at the ends of words. The phonology of English inflection is such that morphological and phonological complexity are confounded, and previous research has indicated that phonological complexity influences stuttering. Section 1 of this paper considers how to disentangle phonological and morphological complexity so that the impact of each on stuttering can be tested. Section 2 presents an analysis of some adult corpus data, and shows that phonological and morphological complexity at the word end do not influence stuttering rates for English-speaking adults, at least in spontaneous speech. Section 3 presents results from a non-word repetition task and a past tense elicitation task which reveal that while word-end phonological and morphological complexity do not affect stuttering rates in most of the adults and children tested, a small proportion of adults and children do stutter over morphologically complex words in an elicitation task. Taken as a whole, these results suggest that morphology has an impact on stuttering for some individuals in certain circumstances.


The computational requirements in Neurophysiology are increasing with the development of new analysis methods. The resources the GRID has to offer are ideally suited for this complex processing. A practical implementation of the GRID, Condor, has been assessed using a local cluster of 920 PCs. The reduction in processing time was assessed in spike recognition of the Electroencephalogram (EEG) in epilepsy using wavelets and the computationally demanding task of non-linear image reconstruction with Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT). Processing times were decreased by 25 and 40 times respectively. This represents a substantial improvement in processing time, but is still sub optimal due to factors such as shared access to resources and lack of checkpoints so that interrupted jobs had to be restarted. Future work will be to use these methods in non-linear EIT image reconstruction of brain function and methods for automated EEG analysis, if possible with further optimized GRID middleware.
Phosphorylated Amyloid-beta (Abeta) was identified in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. Using an anti-sense peptide approach the human cyclin-dependent kinase-1 (CDK-1) was identified as being responsible for Abeta phosphorylation. The phosphorylated Abeta peptide showed increased neurotoxicity and reduced ability to form Congo red-positive fibrils. Mutation of the serine 26 residue and inhibition of Abeta phosphorylation by the CDK-1 inhibitor olomoucine prevented Abeta toxicity, suggesting that the phosphorylated Abeta peptide represents a toxic intermediate. Cannabinoids prevented phosphorylated Abeta toxicity. The results from this study suggest that Abeta phosphorylation could play a role in AD pathology and represent a novel therapeutic target.
The aim of the present study was to examine the development of self-reported depression during psychodynamic group therapy among patients manifesting a history of substance use-related problems between 1993-2000. Subjects (n = 100) were prospectively followed with respects to depression levels at intake and after 6, 12, and 18 month in therapy. Depression was measured with the Beck Depression Inventory. Overall, there was a significant decrease in depression after 18 months in therapy. The development of depression in different subgroups was also analyzed.

Stroke is the leading cause of disability in older Americans. Each year 750,000 Americans suffer a stroke, two thirds of whom are left with neurological deficits that persistently impair function. Principal among them is hemiparetic gait that limits mobility and increases fall risk, promoting a sedentary lifestyle. These events propagate disability by physical deconditioning and &quot;learned non-use,&quot; with further functional declines accelerated by the sarcopenia and fitness decrements of advancing age. Conventional rehabilitation care typically provides little or no structured therapeutic exercise beyond the subacute stroke recovery period, based on natural history studies showing little or no further functional motor recovery beyond 6 months after stroke. Emerging evidence suggests that new models of task-oriented exercise have the potential to improve motor function even years after stroke. This article presents treadmill as a task-oriented training paradigm to optimize locomotor relearning while eliciting cardiovascular conditioning in chronic stroke patients. Protocols for exercise testing and longitudinal aerobic training progression are presented that provide fundamental formulas that safely approach the complex task of customizing aerobic training to gait deficit severity in the high CVD risk stroke population. The beneficial effects of 6 months task-oriented treadmill exercise on cardiovascular-metabolic fitness, energy cost of hemiparetic gait, ADL mobility task performance, and leg strength are discussed with respect to the central and peripheral neuromuscular adaptations targeted by the training. Collectively, these findings constitute one initial experience in a much broader neuroscience and exercise rehabilitation development of task-oriented training paradigms that offer a multisystems approach to improving both neurological and cardiovascular health outcomes in the chronic stroke population.
Renal disease is a common complication of diabetes mellitus. The pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy is not well understood, but hyperglycemia seems to be a crucial factor. Recent evidence indicates that the overproduction of reactive oxygen species, observed in both clinical and experimental diabetes, and mitochondrial dysfunction are key factors in pathogenic process. The objective of this investigation was to test the hypothesis of whether hyperglycemia could affect kidney morphology and mitochondrial bioenergetics as well as susceptibility to oxidative stress in 12-month-old diabetic Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats, a model of type 2 diabetes mellitus. We observed that there were no significant differences in the kidney respiratory function and phosphorylation capacity between GK and age-matched control Wistar rats. Mitochondria from kidneys of diabetic rats were equally susceptible to in vitro oxidative damage as those from normal rats, while coenzyme Q and alpha -tocopherol concentrations were similar in both types of preparations. However, the kidney of GK rats presented in most glomerulus a capillary basement membrane thickening with mesangial widening, in evolution to segmental glomerular sclerosis, and, in some interlobular arteries, excessive deposition of PAS-positive material at the tunica intima. The results show that the mild prolonged hyperglycemia and the kidney structural changes observed in GK rats are not sufficient to cause renal dysfunction and were not associated with functional and biochemical alterations in mitochondria.
In comparison with the ethical issues surrounding molecular genetics, there has been little public awareness of the ethical implications of neuroscience. Yet recent progress in cognitive neuroscience raises a host of ethical issues of at least comparable importance. Some are of a practical nature, concerning the applications of neurotechnology and their likely implications for individuals and society. Others are more philosophical, concerning the way we think about ourselves as persons, moral agents and spiritual beings. This article reviews key examples of each type of issue, including the relevant advances in science and technology and their accompanying social and philosophical problems.
Recent findings in cognitive neuroscience and cognitive psychology are converging to shed light on the nature of processing, categorization and memory for pitch in humans and animals. Although most people are unable to name or place pitch values in consistent, well-defined categories, as they do for color, stable long-term memory for pitch has been shown in certain animal species, in infants, and in both adult musicians and non-musicians. 'Absolute pitch', the rare ability to label pitches without external reference, appears to require acquisition early in life, and involves specialized brain mechanisms, now partially identified. Research on pitch coding strategies informs wider theories in cognitive science of semantic memory, and the nature of perceptual categories.
Recent advances in the cognitive neuroscience of action have considerably enlarged our understanding of human motor cognition. In particular, the activity of the mirror system, first discovered in the brain of non-human primates, provides an observer with the understanding of a perceived action by means of the motor simulation of the agent's observed movements. This discovery has raised the prospects of a motor theory of social cognition. In humans, social cognition includes the ability to mindread, and many motor theorists of social cognition try to bridge the gap between motor cognition and mindreading by endorsing a simulation account of mindreading. Here, we question the motor theory of social cognition and give reasons for our skepticism.
We are often aware of the content of distracting sound, although typically remain unaware of the processes by which that sound is disruptive. Disruption can occur even when the sound is ignored and unrelated to the task being performed. In a recent major development, Gisselgrd et al. have used positron emission tomography to reveal how distracting sounds recruit the involvement of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.
Temporally-extended perception involves a delicate balance of constancy and change. 'This can be seen, for instance, when viewing bistable figures such as the Necker cube. A recent study by Gepshtein and Kubovy of sequential effects in multistable dot lattices demonstrates constancy and change within the same set of data. They propose that these opposing trends might be explained by the same single factor: a persistent random orientation bias that is intrinsic to brain activity. This proposal could form the basis for a new account of multistability.
In systems neuroscience, advances often come from lesioning and reversible inhibition of brain regions. Dissecting the circuitry of regions involves conceptually the same approach - stop a class of cell from firing action potentials, or make the cells fire more, then deduce how these components influence the performance of the circuit and animal behaviour. To perform such cell-type-specific and reversible fine-scale analysis of circuitry, and to do so on the fast signalling timescale of the brain (milliseconds to seconds), is challenging in mammals. Ingenious and diverse methods are being developed towards this goal. These new tools will encourage further synergy between molecular biologists, systems neuroscientists and electrophysiologists.
Sensory neurons with short conduction distances can use nonregenerative, graded potentials to modulate transmitter release continuously. This mechanism can transmit information at much higher rates than spiking. Graded signaling requires a synapse to sustain high rates of exocytosis for relatively long periods, and this capacity is the special virtue of ribbon synapses. Vesicles tethered to the ribbon provide a pool for sustained release that is typically fivefold greater than the docked pool available for fast release. The current article, which is part of the TINS Synaptic Connectivity series, reviews recent evidence for this fundamental computational strategy and its underlying cell biology.
GABA, the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain, regulates many physiological and psychological processes. Thus, dysfunction of the GABA system is implicated in the pathophysiology of several neuropsychiatric disorders, including anxiety and depression. However, the role of GABA(B) receptors in behavioural processes related to these disorders has not been resolved. GABA(B) receptors are G-protein-coupled receptors that function as heterodimers of GABA(B(1)) and GABA(B(2)) subunits. In addition to highly selective agonists and antagonists, novel GABA(B) receptor tools have been developed recently to further assist elucidation of the role of GABA(B) receptors in CNS function. These include mice that lack functional GABA(B) receptors, and novel positive modulators of the GABA(B) receptor. In this review, we discuss evidence that points to a role of GABA(B) receptors in anxiety and depression.

The duodenal lumen is exposed to aggressive factors with a high potential to cause damage to the mucosa. Bicarbonate secretion by the duodenal mucosa is accepted as the primary important defense mechanism against the hydrochloric acid intermittently expelled from the stomach. The present work concerns both the influence of the central nervous system and the effects of the hormone melatonin on duodenal bicarbonate secretion in anesthetized rats in vivo as well as effects of melatonin on intracellular calcium signaling by duodenal enterocyte in vitro examined in tissues of both human and rat origin. The main findings were as follows: Melatonin is a potent stimulant of duodenal mucosal bicarbonate secretion and also seems to be involved in the acid-induced stimulation of the secretion. Stimulation elicited in the central nervous system by the alpha1-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine induced release of melatonin from the intestinal mucosa and a four-fold increase in alkaline secretion. The melatonin antagonist luzindole abolished the duodenal secretory response to administered melatonin and to central nervous phenylephrine but did not influence the release of intestinal melatonin. Central nervous stimulation was also abolished by synchronous ligation of the vagal trunks and the sympathetic chains at the sub-laryngeal level. Melatonin induced release of calcium from intracellular stores and also influx of extracellular calcium in isolated duodenal enterocytes. Enterocytes in clusters functioned as a syncytium. Overnight fasting rapidly and profoundly down-regulated the responses to the duodenal secretagogue orexin-A and the muscarinic agonist bethanechol but not those to melatonin or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide.

In this review, we have summarized the findings of fifteen studies of knowledge of stroke warning signs and risk factors in both high- and low-risk populations. In general, there appears to be low levels of knowledge of both risk factors and stroke warning signs among the communities studied. Using free recall, between 20% and 30% of respondents could not name a single risk factor, and between 10% and 60% could not name a single warning sign of stroke. Providing survey respondents with a list of potential warning signs substantially improved the identification of warning signs. Respondents in older age groups and having lower levels of educational attainment tended to have less knowledge of risk factors and warning signs of stroke than those in younger age groups and those with more education. Public campaigns to improve stroke knowledge are needed, particularly in the older age groups where the risk of stroke is greater.
Occupational healthcare is one of the priority directions of modern sciences of life. Its achievements are based upon scientific ideas of Sechenov, the first Russian explorer of brain bioelectric activity. The modern neurophysiologic methodology of formalized quantitative evaluation of homeostasis in the higher brain structures allows optimization of early etiological diagnostics and prevention of stress reactions of central nervous and cardiovascular systems of workers exposed to hazardous factors of industrial environment.
The adipocyte hormone leptin binds to its receptors in hypothalamic neurons and decreases appetite and food consumption. Its effect on appetite is mediated by melanocortines (MC) that are derivative of proopiomelanocortin (POMK) and their receptor (MC4-R). The knock-out of POMC gene or MC4-R gene causes obesity in animals. However, the growth of the animals intensifies and their reproductive function does not cease. The paper covers consequences of mutations in genes responsible for leptin regulation of various functions.
A rare type of rodent retinal ganglion cell expresses melanopsin (Opn4), the majority of which project to the suprachiasmatic nuclei. Many of these cells are directly light sensitive and appear to regulate the circadian system in the absence of rod and cone photoreceptors. However, the rodent retina contains no overt regions of specialization, and the different ganglion cell types are hard to distinguish. Consequently, attempts to distinguish the distribution of melanopsin ganglion cells in relation to regions of retinal specialization or subtype have proved problematic. Retinal cells with a common function tend to be regularly distributed. In this study, we isolate cat melanopsin and label melanopsin expressing cells using in situ hybridization. The labelled cells were all confined to the ganglion cell layer, their density was low, and their distribution was random. Melanopsin containing cells showed no clear center-to-periphery gradient in their distribution and were comprised of a relatively uniform cellular population.
We propose a computational model for the task-specific guidance of visual attention in real-world scenes. Our model emphasizes four aspects that are important in biological vision: determining task-relevance of an entity, biasing attention for the low-level visual features of desired targets, recognizing these targets using the same low-level features, and incrementally building a visual map of task-relevance at every scene location. Given a task definition in the form of keywords, the model first determines and stores the task-relevant entities in working memory, using prior knowledge stored in long-term memory. It attempts to detect the most relevant entity by biasing its visual attention system with the entity's learned low-level features. It attends to the most salient location in the scene, and attempts to recognize the attended object through hierarchical matching against object representations stored in long-term memory. It updates its working memory with the task-relevance of the recognized entity and updates a topographic task-relevance map with the location and relevance of the recognized entity. The model is tested on three types of tasks: single-target detection in 343 natural and synthetic images, where biasing for the target accelerates target detection over twofold on average; sequential multiple-target detection in 28 natural images, where biasing, recognition, working memory and long term memory contribute to rapidly finding all targets; and learning a map of likely locations of cars from a video clip filmed while driving on a highway. The model's performance on search for single features and feature conjunctions is consistent with existing psychophysical data. These results of our biologically-motivated architecture suggest that the model may provide a reasonable approximation to many brain processes involved in complex task-driven visual behaviors.
In the retina of mammals, dopamine (DA) is generally released by amacrine cells and is known to alter the physiology of most retinal cells. It is well known that DA reduces the amplitude of the b-wave of the electroretinogram (ERG) in rabbit. However, the specific receptor subtypes that mediate this action have not yet been elucidated. To do this, we recorded flash ERGs before and after the intravitreal injection of D1-like DA receptor agonists (SKF38393, A77693) and antagonist (SCH23390), and of D2-like agonist (R(-)-propylnorapomorphine hydrochloride; NPA) and antagonist ((S)-(-)-sulpiride). Contralateral control eyes were injected with the vehicle only. Both D1 agonists provoked a reduction of the ERG b-wave amplitude (34.0% and 59.2% of the pre-injection level, respectively). The D2-like agonist NPA had no significant effects on ERG components. Unexpectedly, both D1- and D2-like antagonists also reduced the b-wave amplitude (28.9% and 59.8%). Overall, these data suggest that the previously described effect of DA on the rabbit ERG b-wave came from activation of D1-like receptors. On the basis of the effects observed with D2-like antagonist, a subtle contribution of D2-like presynaptic receptors cannot be ruled out.
Line-ends, corners and junctions are important singularities for form analysis, object recognition, depth ordering or motion processing. In this study, we investigate the extent to which processing the motion of line ends depends on the spatial configuration of their immediate surround. To that aim, we used two vertical collinear line segments, translating clockwise or anti-clockwise along a circular path, together with a direction discrimination task. Direction discrimination was measured independently for outer line-ends--at both segments extremities--and inner line-ends--in between collinear segments--using line segments partially occluded by invisible masks such that the direction of either inner or outer line-ends' motion was restricted to a sinusoidal translation along a horizontal axis, and thus irrelevant for the motion task. Under these conditions, access to the direction of inner line-ends is longer and more difficult than it is for outer line-ends. Subsequent experiments show that these effects depend on the degree of collinearity between line segments. Similar experiments were performed after volunteers took a dose of Lorazepam, a benzodiazepine that facilitates the fixation of GABA on GABAA receptors. The results show that the differences between the processing of inner and outer line-ends is reduced, suggesting that the effect of the surround is modulated by inhibitory mechanisms. Using a simple model, we propose that this effect can be explained by a competition between a segmentation process based on surround suppression and contour integration through long-range horizontal connections, at or prior to motion processing stages.
We present a new form of contrast masking in which the target is a patch of low spatial frequency grating (0.46 c/deg) and the mask is a dark thin ring that surrounds the centre of the target patch. In matching and detection experiments we found little or no effect for binocular presentation of mask and test stimuli. But when mask and test were presented briefly (33 or 200 ms) to different eyes (dichoptic presentation), masking was substantial. In a 'half-binocular' condition the test stimulus was presented to one eye, but the mask stimulus was presented to both eyes with zero-disparity. This produced masking effects intermediate to those found in dichoptic and full-binocular conditions. We suggest that interocular feature matching can attenuate the potency of interocular suppression, but unlike in previous work (McKee, S. P., Bravo, M. J., Taylor, D. G., &amp; Legge, G. E. (1994) Stereo matching precedes dichoptic masking. Vision Research, 34, 1047) we do not invoke a special role for depth perception.
Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-stimulated cortisol production by adrenal zona fasciculata cells requires coordinated biochemical and ionic signaling mechanisms that employ adenosine 3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) and Ca(2+) as intracellular messengers. As the primary messenger generated in response to ACTH receptor activation, cAMP acts at multiple sites to produce the full steroidogenic response that includes both rapid and delayed components. Biochemically, cAMP activates and induces the expression of multiple proteins that function in converting cholesterol to cortisol. These include the steroid acute regulatory (StAR) protein as well as steroidogenic enzymes. cAMP also inhibits a background K(+) channel (bTREK-1), which sets the resting potential of adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells, thereby triggering membrane depolarization and Ca(2+) entry through voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. Ca(2+) also accelerates the production of cortisol from cholesterol by activating or inducing the synthesis of steroidogenic proteins. In this scheme, background K(+) channels act pivotally by transducing a hormonal signal at the cell membrane to an ionic signal, leading to depolarization-dependent Ca(2+) entry. In this way, ACTH receptor activation increases cAMP and Ca(2+) in the AZF cell, yielding the full steroidogenic response. In addition to acutely regulating the activity of AZF cell ion channels, ACTH and cAMP also regulate the expression of genes coding for these ion channels. The tonic control of the expression of AZF cell ion channels through the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis suggests that prolonged stimulation of the AZF cell by ACTH may alter the electrical properties of these cells in a manner which matches the organism's requirement for cortisol.
The neural diathesis-stressor hypothesis of schizophrenia, where neurobiological genetic predisposition to schizophrenia can be provoked by environmental stressors is considered as a model of the effects of exposure to ionizing radiation. Analysis of information from electronic databases (MEDLINE, PsycINFO, EMBASE, Current Contents, Elsevier BIOBASE) and hand-made search was carried out. There are comparable reports on increases in schizophrenia spectrum disorders following exposure to ionizing radiation as a result of atomic bombing, nuclear weapons testing, the Chernobyl accident, environmental contamination by radioactive waste, radiotherapy, and also in areas with high natural radioactive background. The results of experimental radioneurobiological studies support the hypothesis of schizophrenia as a neurodegenerative disease. Exposure to ionizing radiation causes brain damage with limbic (cortical-limbic) system dysfunction and impairment of informative processes at the molecular level that can trigger schizophrenia in predisposed individuals or cause schizophrenia-like disorders. It is supposed that ionizing radiation can be proposed as a risk factor for schizophrenia spectrum disorders. The hypothesis that ionizing radiation is a risk factor for schizophrenia spectrum disorders can be tested using data from the Chernobyl accident aftermath. Implementation of a study on schizophrenia spectrum disorders in Chernobyl accident victims is of significance for both clinical medicine and neuroscience.
Cognitive neuropsychiatry attempts to understand psychiatric disorders as disturbances to the normal function of human cognitive organisation, and it attempts to link this functional framework to relevant brain structures and their pathology. This recent scientific discipline is the natural extension of cognitive neuroscience into the domain of psychiatry. We present two examples of recent research in cognitive neuropsychiatry: delusions of control in schizophrenia, and affective disorders. The examples demonstrate how the cognitive approach is a fruitful and necessary supplement to the otherwise successful biological psychiatry paradigm, which tend to bypass the cognitive level. Philosophy concerns some of the core concepts involved in psychiatric illness, particularly concerning rationality, thought and action, reality testing, and the self. We present concrete examples that illustrate how philosophical conceptual tools can be particularly important for the construction and interpretation of the cognitive models relevant to the understanding of psychiatric illness. We conclude that cognitive neuropsychiatry is a fruitful and necessary supplement to biological psychiatry. Furthermore, cognitive neuropsychiatry itself may benefit significantly from employing philosophical conceptual tools in the interpretation and construction of its cognitive models. The cognitive and philosophical approaches may thus be further steps towards a scientific psychopathology.
Ethical issues in biological psychiatry are framed by (i) progress in the neurosciences, and (ii) a changing socio-cultural context. With regard to forthcoming neurotechniques to modify specifically defined brain functions by pharmacological substances with selective effects, by activating neuroplasticity including neurogenesis, or by implantation of neuronal tissues or computer-brain interfaces, etc., ethical problems will develop (i) at the border between therapy of diseases and enhancement of abilities in healthy people with regard to effects on society (e.g., social justice: equal access, loss of societal diversity) as well as on human value systems (e.g., personality, efforts, conditio humana), and (ii) at the border between the medical system and the wellness market with regard to financing what by whom? Ethical dilemmas in psychiatry develop (i) between the individual's best and the common good (demanded from outside medicine), (ii) among different ethical principles (inside medicine), iii) if solutions are influenced by personal reasons without observing ethical principles. Ethical guidelines are necessary for ethical orientation, but may protect against misconduct only (i) if psychiatrists are educated in ethics and (ii) if psychiatric acting is under continuous debate (by ethical review boards or the public). Thus, if we psychiatrists will become ethically sensitive by reflecting and perhaps solving our current ethical dilemmas we will be prepared to deal with forthcoming ethical issues in biological psychiatry.

Ivan Solomonovich Beritashvili (Beritov) is one of the great Russian physiologists who have created the Russian route of the modern science of behavior. He has proposed and experimentally substantiated a concept of psychoneural activity according to which the behavior controlled by images is the main and higher form of the behavior of vertebrates. Behaviors on the basis of conditioned reflexes and images are qualitatively different activities underlain by different neural substrates. Recently, the Beritashvili's principle ideas have been confirmed by multiple experimental studies of the animal and human cognitive behavior. At present, the concept of the procedural memory formed by training and acquisition and episodic memory formed on the basis of images is commonly accepted. The episodic memory stores the environmental events and phenomena perceived by an animal or a human. Each time when the image is reproduced during perception of environment or its part, an animal performs the same behavioral act as during the actual perception. Beritashvili's viewpoint that the procedural and declarative memories are controlled by different brain structures has been confirmed by experiments.
Inborn brain differences in metabolic capacity were mapped in congenitally helpless rats, a genetically selected strain predisposed to show helpless and depressive behavior. There are a number of brain regions showing abnormal metabolism in adult congenitally helpless rats. Some of these alterations may be innate while others may be due to environmental factors, such as maternal care and postnatal stress. To identify which brain structures show innate differences, brains of newborn rats from congenitally helpless and non-helpless strains were compared using cytochrome oxidase histochemistry, an endogenous marker of regional metabolic capacity. A smaller subset of regions affected in adults showed significantly less metabolic activity in the newborn brains, including paraventricular hypothalamus, habenula, hippocampus, subiculum, lateral septal nucleus, anterior cingulate cortex, infralimbic cortex, and medial orbitofrontal cortex. A covariance analysis further revealed a striking reduction of functional connectivity in the congenitally helpless brain, including a complete decoupling of limbic forebrain regions from midbrain/diencephalic regions. This pattern of brain metabolism suggests that helplessness vulnerability is linked to altered functioning of limbic networks that are key to controlling the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. This implies that vulnerable animals have innate deficits in brain systems that would normally allow them to cope with stress, predisposing them in this manner to more readily develop helpless and depressive behaviors.
The PrP-like Doppel (Dpl) protein causes apoptotic death of cerebellar neurons in transgenic mice, a process prevented by expression of the wild type (wt) cellular prion protein, PrP(C). Internally deleted forms of PrP(C) resembling Dpl such as PrPDelta32-121 produce a similar PrP(C)-sensitive pro-apoptotic phenotype in transgenic mice. Here we demonstrate that these phenotypic attributes of wt Dpl, wt PrP(C), and PrPDelta132-121 can be accurately recapitulated by transfected mouse cerebellar granule cell cultures. This system was then explored by mutagenesis of the co-expressed prion proteins to reveal functional determinants. By this means, neuroprotective activity of wt PrP(C) was shown to be nullified by a deletion of the N-terminal charged region implicated in endocytosis and retrograde axonal transport (PrPDelta23-28), by deletion of all five octarepeats (PrPDelta51-90), or by glycine replacement of four octarepeat histidine residues required for selective binding of copper ions (Prnp&quot;H/G&quot;). In the case of Dpl, overlapping deletions defined a requirement for the gene interval encoding helices B and B' (DplDelta101-125). These data suggest contributions of copper binding and neuronal trafficking to wt PrP(C) function in vivo and place constraints upon current hypotheses to explain Dpl/PrP(C) antagonism by competitive ligand binding. Further implementation of this assay should provide a fuller understanding of the attributes and subcellular localizations required for activity of these enigmatic proteins.
