We compared cognitive performance and hippocampal volumes using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in adult fragile-X [fra(X)] males and females with either premutation (pM) or full mutation (fM) (n = 10 in all groups). Cognitive performance of fM males in the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised was worse than that of pM males, and the deficits in fM females were qualitatively similar, but less severe. In a visual memory test, both fM groups were impaired. In a list learning test, fM males were impaired in the learning phase and in delayed recognition. In a logical memory test, fM males and females were not significantly different from pM subjects. Hippocampal volumes normalized for intracranial or brain area did not significantly differ between fM and pM groups. However, positive correlations between left normalized hippocampal volumes and performance in many delayed memory tests observed in pM subjects were absent in fM subjects. Furthermore, in &gt; 50% of the fM subjects, nonspecific changes, such as enlargement of ventricles and perivascular spaces, focal hyperintensities in temporal pole white matter, and/or subjectively assessed atypical appearance of hippocampal morphology, were observed in MRI. The data suggest minor abnormalities in temporal lobe structures in adult fra(X) subjects with fM.
We previously reported a novel thymic stromal cell Ag, HS9, as a potent molecule participating in intrathymic T cell development. HS9 Ag is expressed on thymic stromal cells especially in the cortex but not on thymocytes. In the present study, we isolated and characterized a novel cDNA, N14, encoding HS9 Ag. Sequencing analysis of N14 cDNA has revealed it to be a novel one without any significant homology to previously reported functional molecules. COS7 cells transfected with expression vectors harboring N14 cDNA became reactive with HS9-specific mAb. Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization revealed that several tissues that are positive for HS9 mAb expressed N14 mRNA. To examine the role of this molecule in T cell development, transgenic mice were generated. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemical study showed that the transgene was significantly overexpressed on both cortical and medullar thymic stromal cells but not on thymocytes. Flow cytometric analyses showed that the percentages of mature CD4- CD8+ or CD4+ CD8- thymocytes in transgenic mice were approximately twice and triple, respectively, those in control littermates. Moreover, substantial CD4+ CD8+ thymocytes appeared to have high levels of TCR compared with peripheral T cells. Histologic examination revealed that transgenic mice had thin cortex and relatively developed medulla. These data indicate the critical role of the N14 gene in T cell development.
The nucleus reuniens thalami (RE) originates dense projections to CA1, forming asymmetrical synapses on spines (50%) and dendrites (50%). The hypothesis that RE input modulates transmission in CA1 through excitation of both pyramidal cells and interneurons was tested using electrophysiological methods in the anesthetized rat. The RE-CA1 afferents were selectively stimulated at their origin; evoked field potentials and unit activity were recorded in CA1. RE-evoked depth profiles showed a prominent negative deflection in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare and a positive one in the stratum radiatum. The lacunosum-moleculare sink-radiatum source configuration is compatible with RE-elicited depolarization of apical dendrites of pyramidal cells. Despite a consistent and robust paired pulse facilitation of RE-evoked field potentials, population spikes in the stratum pyramidale were not detected at any tested condition. This indicates the inability of RE-CA1 input to discharge pyramidal cells. However, stimulation of RE-elicited spiking of extracellularly recorded units in strata oriens/alveus and distal radiatum, indicative of the activation of local interneurons. Thus, RE seems to modulate transmission in CA1 through a (subthreshold) depolarization of pyramidal cells and a suprathreshold excitation of putative inhibitory oriens/alveus and radiatum interneurons. RE-evoked monosynaptic or disynaptic field potentials were associated with stimulation of rostral or caudal RE, respectively. Anatomically, a projection from caudal to rostral RE was demonstrated that can account for the disynaptic RE-CA1 input. Because caudal RE receives input from the hippocampus via the subiculum, we propose the existence of a closed RE-hippocampal circuit that allows RE to modulate the activity in CA1, depending on hippocampal output.
This study examined both the acute and long-lasting changes in seizure susceptibility that occur in response to the repeated induction of generalized seizure activity. Daily flurothyl-induced generalized clonic seizures resulted in a progressive decrease in both the generalized seizure threshold and the latency to the first myoclonic jerk. The threshold reduction was significant as early as the second trial and was maximal by trial 5. However, a minimum of eight seizures was necessary for the maximal reduction to be long-lasting. The present study also examined the effects of the number of seizures and the duration of the stimulation-free interval on the type of generalized seizure expressed. During the induction phase of the experiment, only generalized clonic seizures (&quot;forebrain seizures&quot;) were expressed. If, however, the animal was retested after a 1, 2, 3, or 4 week stimulation-free interval, a progressive increase in both the proportion of animals expressing &quot;brainstem seizure&quot; behaviors and the median seizure score was observed. The progression of flurothyl-induced generalized seizure behaviors was significantly altered if (1) a minimum of eight generalized clonic seizures had been expressed, and (2) a minimum of a 2 week stimulation-free interval followed. Fewer generalized clonic seizures failed to reliably produce changes in seizure phenotype, even after extended stimulus-free intervals. These data indicate that specific kindling processes are initiated during the interval of repeated seizure induction and evolve in the absence of continued seizure induction. Furthermore, these mechanisms of epileptogenesis were found to be manifest predominantly as a change in the seizure phenotype expressed and to proceed independent of changes in the generalized seizure threshold.
The injured adult mammalian spinal cord shows little spontaneous recovery after injury. In the present study, the contribution of projections in the dorsal half of the spinal cord to functional loss after adult spinal cord injury was examined, together with the effects of transgenic cellular delivery of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) on morphological and functional disturbances. Adult rats underwent bilateral dorsal column spinal cord lesions that remove the dorsal corticospinal projections or underwent more extensive resections of the entire dorsal spinal cord bilaterally that remove corticospinal, rubrospinal, and cerulospinal projections. Long-lasting functional deficits were observed on a motor grid task requiring detailed integration of sensorimotor skills, but only in animals with dorsal hemisection lesions as opposed to dorsal column lesions. Syngenic primary rat fibroblasts genetically modified to produce NT-3 were then grafted to acute spinal cord dorsal hemisection lesion cavities. Up to 3 months later, significant partial functional recovery occurred in NT-3-grafted animals together with a significant increase in corticospinal axon growth at and distal to the injury site. These findings indicate that (1) several spinal pathways contribute to loss of motor function after spinal cord injury, (2) NT-3 is a neurotrophic factor for the injured corticospinal projection, and (3) functional deficits are partially ameliorated by local cellular delivery of NT-3. Lesions of the corticospinal projection may be necessary, but insufficient in isolation, to cause sensorimotor dysfunction after spinal cord injury in the rat.
Netrin-1 has profound in vitro effects on the growth properties of vertebrate embryonic axons. In addition, netrin-1 mRNA is found in the floor plate of the embryonic nervous system, an intermediate target of many axons, including commissural axons that are affected by netrin-1 in vitro. Moreover, genetic studies of netrin-1 homologs in Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila implicate these proteins in commissure formation. We raised polyclonal antisera that recognize chick netrin-1 in fixed tissue sections. The antisera were used to immunohistochemically map netrin-1 in the embryonic spinal cord, brain, and retina. The relationship between netrin-1 localization and the growth of pioneering axons suggests roles for netrin-1 in the regulation of circumferential, commissural, and longitudinal axon growth in the spinal cord and brain. The data also suggest that the primary or sole effect of netrin-1 on pioneering spinal cord commissural axons is haptotactic. Furthermore, the pattern of netrin-1 localization raises the possibility that this protein helps mediate neuronal migration in the spinal cord, brain, and retina.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) plays an important role in the plasmalemmal reuptake of dopamine and, thus, in the termination of normal dopaminergic neurotransmission. DAT is also a major binding site for cocaine and other stimulants, the psychoactive effects of which are associated primarily with the inhibition of dopamine reuptake within mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic neurons. We used electron microscopy with an anti-peptide antiserum directed against the N-terminal domain of DAT to determine the subcellular localization of this transporter in the rat ventral tegmental area (VTA), the region that contains the cell bodies and dendrites of these dopaminergic neurons. We show that in the VTA, almost 95% of the DAT immunogold-labeled profiles are neuronal perikarya and dendrites, and the remainder are unmyelinated axons. Within perikarya and large proximal dendrites, almost all of the DAT immunogold particles are associated with intracellular membranes, including saccules of Golgi and cytoplasmic tubulovesicles. In contrast, within medium- to small-diameter dendrites and unmyelinated axons, most of the DAT gold particles are located on plasma membranes. In dually labeled tissue, peroxidase reaction product for the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase is present in DAT-immunoreactive profiles. These findings suggest that intermediate and distal dendrites are both the primary sites of dopamine reuptake and the principal targets of cocaine and related psychostimulants within dopaminergic neurons in the VTA.
The amyloid beta precursor protein (AbetaPP) can exist as a membrane-bound glycoprotein which modulates neural cell adhesion. The adhesion of clones of the AtT20 mouse pituitary cell line, transfected with cDNA coding for the 695 (AbetaPP695) and 751 (AbetaPP751) amino acid forms of the protein, to individual components of the extracellular matrix was determined using a centrifugal shear assay. On laminin, poly-L-lysine, fibronectin, and uncoated glass substrata, the cells transfected with AbetaPP695 (6A1 cells) demonstrated a 50% increase in adhesivity over nontransfected cells, while those transfected with AbetaPP751 (7A1 cells) showed a significant decrease in adhesion. There was, however, a significant increase in the adhesive strength of the 7A1 cells to collagen type IV with no change in the adhesivity of the 6A1 cells when compared with control. These changes in adhesivity could be attributed to changes in the levels of the membrane-bound protein and were not due to the interaction of soluble AbetaPP with elements of the extracellular matrix. These studies provide evidence for differential adhesivities of the constituent AbetaPP isoforms and the possible role of the Kunitz protease inhibitor (KPI) domain in influencing the adhesive properties of the protein backbone.
Tau is a neuronal microtubule-associated protein whose function is modulated by phosphorylation. GSK-3beta is a tau kinase. GSK-3beta is part of the wingless signalling pathway and stimulation by wingless is predicted to down-regulate GSK-3beta activity. In Drosophila imaginal disc cells, overexpression of dishevelled, a component of the wingless pathway, mimics the wingless signal. We have therefore studied the effect that overexpression of the murine dishevelled-1 protein has on GSK-3beta-mediated phosphorylation of tau in transfected CHO cells. We find that co-transfection with dishevelled-1 is inhibitory to GSK-3beta-mediated tau phosphorylation. Tau is hyperphosphorylated in Alzheimer's disease and the possible relevance of these findings to Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis are discussed.
The human suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is located in the basal part of the anterior hypothalamus and is considered as the biological clock that generates circadian rhythms and synchronizes the daily activity pattern with the environmental light-dark cycle. However, the mechanisms and pathways by which the SCN transmits its information to the other brain areas are unknown. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the efferent projections of the SCN by the immunocytochemical staining of two major peptidergic SCN neurotransmitters: vasopressin (VP) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP). It confirmed that these peptides are present in different subdivisions of the SCN. The results of this investigation show that VP and VIP fibers arising from the SCN were detected to branch extensively and hence seem to innervate the SCN itself and the central and medial part of the anteroventral hypothalamic area (AVH), the area below the paraventricular nucleus (sub-PVN), the ventral part of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), and the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (DMH). There appeared to be substantial congruity between the presumptive human SCN projections and those as observed by tracing in rat or hamster. Regarding the anatomical organization of the human SCN projections, the main projection areas appeared to be the AVH, the sub-PVN, the ventral part of the PVN, and the DMH. The observation that VIP and in particular VP fibers pass between the SCN and the PVN suggests that the human SCN and the PVN may have a direct anatomical connection. In addition, VP and VIP fibers were detected in several other hypothalamic areas that are not known to have clear direct connections to the SCN. The possible origin of these VP and VIP fibers is discussed.
The effect of NMDA receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP) on expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 mRNA in the rat brain was studied. Administration of PCP (12.5, 25 or 50 mg/kg, i.p., 6 h) caused marked induction of COX-2 mRNA and heat shock gene hsp-70 mRNA, a marker of neuronal injury, in the retrosplenial cortex, in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that COX-2 may play a role in the neurotoxicity of NMDA receptor antagonists.
We cloned the genes for the mouse homologue of the neuromedin B receptor (NMB-R) and the bombesin receptor subtype 3 (BRS-3). Both receptor genes consist of three exons with well-conserved intron-exon borders. Although the NMB-R gene spans more than 10 kb, the BRS-3 gene spans only about 4 kb. Comparison of the mouse and human receptor sequences indicates 90% (NMB-R) and 85% (BRS-3) sequence homology at the amino-acid level. In the adult mouse, the NMB-R mRNA is expressed in the brain, testis, esophagus, intestine and uterus, whereas the BRS-3 mRNA is expressed predominantly in the brain. In the brain, the NMB-R gene expression is prominent in the thalamic and olfactory regions, and the BRS-3 gene is expressed particularly in the hypothalamic region. In mouse testis, the NMB-R gene expression is prominent, and the expression of BRS-3 mRNA is barely detected. In contrast, BRS-3 has been shown to be expressed in rat testis and guinea-pig uterus, therefore it is possible that a different subtype of the bombesin receptor mediates the same response in different species. Together with the mouse GRP-R gene cloned previously, cloning of the mouse NMB-R and BRS-3 genes permits comparison of function and structure of the three bombesin receptor subtypes in the mouse.
Na,K-ATPase activity has been demonstrated to be regulated by a variety of hormones in different tissues. It is known to be directly phosphorylated on its alpha-subunit, but the functional effects of protein kinases remain controversial. We have developed a sensitive, antibody-based assay for detection of the level of phosphorylation of the alpha1-isoform of rat Na,K-ATPase at the serine residue that is most readily phosphorylated by protein kinase C (PKC) in vitro, Ser18. By stimulation of endogenous PKC and inhibition of phosphatase activity, it was possible to consistently obtain a very high stoichiometry of phosphorylation (close to 0.9) in several types of intact cells. This demonstrates the accessibility and competency of the site for endogenous phosphorylation. The cells used were derived from rat (NRK 52E, C6, L6, and primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells, representing epithelial cells, glia, muscle cells, and neurons). In the presence of the phosphatase inhibitor calyculin A, full phosphorylation was preserved during subsequent assays of enzyme activity in vitro. Assay of the hydrolysis of ATP in NRK and C6 cells, however, indicated that there was no significant effect of phosphorylation on the Vmax of the Na, K-ATPase or on the apparent affinity for Na+. Any regulatory effect of PKC on sodium pump activity thus must be lost upon disruption or permeabilization of the cells and is not a direct consequence of enzyme alteration by covalent phosphorylation of Ser18.
The current study investigated the effects of the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) substrate, N(G)-hydroxy-L-arginine (H-ARG) and the selective glutamate (GLU) reuptake inhibitor (2S)-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (PDC) on striatal dopamine (DA) and glutamate (GLU) efflux in vivo. Concentric microdialysis probes were stereotaxically implanted in the anterior-medial striatum of chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats. Intra-striatal infusion of PDC (200 microM) elevated extracellular (EC) DA and GLU levels concurrently over a 10 fraction collecting period without affecting EC asparagine levels. Infusion of H-ARG (200 microM) for six 20-min fractions, also significantly elevated EC DA levels. In the presence of PDC (200 microM), co-perfusion of H-ARG (200 microM) resulted in supra-additive increases in EC DA levels. The synergistic effect of PDC and H-ARG infusion on DA efflux was attenuated by co-infusion of the NOS inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole (100-200 microM). These results suggest that while both endogenous NO and GLU regulate striatal DA efflux via facilitatory influences, enhanced glutamatergic tone on striatal NOS-containing neurons may potentiate NO-synthesis and subsequently NO-induced DA efflux.

We have developed a model system, consisting of rat brain synaptic vesicles and rat brain synaptic plasma membrane vesicles, to study the fusion process associated with the exocytotic release of neurotransmitters. Our results show a significant increase in the extent of fusion when the reaction takes place in cytosol compared to that obtained when fusion is carried out in buffer. This effect is mediated by cytosolic proteins, although N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor does not play a role in fusion. We also registered an almost complete inhibition of fusion when synaptic vesicles were pre-incubated with botulinum toxin B, indicating that synaptobrevin plays an important role in the coalescence of membrane lipids of the interacting membranes.
We have previously shown that secreted forms of beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP(s)s) promote neurite outgrowth in embryonic rat neocortical explant culture. To determine the region of APP(s) responsible for its biological activity, we produced both amino- and carboxyl-terminal regions of APP(s) using a yeast expression system. The purified fragment corresponding to the amino-terminal region (NAPP) enhanced neurite outgrowth of neocortical explants, but the carboxyl-terminal region fragment did not. The neurite-promoting activity of full length APP(s) and NAPP was blocked by the antibody, 22C11, specific for the amino-terminal region, and the 16-mer peptide of epitope for 22C11 also enhanced neurite outgrowth. However, the 17-mer peptide which contains RERMS sequence did not enhance the neurite outgrowth, but promoted the survival of neocortical neurons in dissociated culture. These findings suggested that the amino-terminal region is responsible for the neurite-promoting activity of APP(s)s.

Shaking rat Kawasaki (SRK) is an autosomal recessive mutant rat that exhibits tremor, dystonia, and ataxia and that is characterized by abnormal lamination of the cerebral and cerebellar cortices and the hippocampus. To examine whether or not layer V neurons in the mutant neocortex are malpositioned in accordance with the aberrant laminar cytoarchitecture, horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was injected into the lumbar spinal cord of SRK mutant and normal control rats to label cortical pyramids projecting through the corticospinal tract (CST). HRP-labeled CST neurons of both normal and SRK rats were found mainly in the hindlimb area of the sensory-motor cortex, indicating a normal tangential distribution of labeled CST neurons in the SRK mutant. In the radial axis, however, labeled CST neurons were spread throughout all layers of the mutant cortex, whereas those in normal rats were restricted to layer V. In the mutant, most labeled CST neurons located in the inner third of the cortex had a typical pyramidal form with an upright apical dendrite, but many of those located near the pial surface displayed abnormal shapes and could be subdivided into inverted pyramidal, horizontal, and bipolar neurons on the basis of their dendritic morphology. The abnormal distribution pattern of labeled CST neurons in the mutant was quantified using a standardized measure of their depth distribution, where 0% = the level of the white matter and 100% = the pial surface. The mean value for the SRK cortex of 47.0% was significantly greater than the figure of 40.5% for normal rats (P &lt; 0.01, Student's t test), indicating a spread of CST neurons toward the pial surface in SRK, but even more striking was the size of the standard deviation: 30.4 in SRK compared with 7.1 in controls. The distribution pattern of CST neurons of the SRK rat was also statistically identical with that of the reeler mouse, which is a well-known mutant that also exhibits an abnormal lamination pattern in the cerebral cortex. These results indicate that neuronal components of the neocortex of the SRK mutant are intermingled along the radial axis, but not in the tangential axis, and provide further evidence for a strong similarity between this spontaneous rat mutation and the reeler malformation.
Previous studies showed that heat-hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia produced by chronic constrictive injury of the sciatic nerve were differentially sensitive to the NMDA receptor antagonist dextrorphan and to morphine and other opioid receptor agonists. These results support the hypothesis that different kinds of neuropathic pain symptoms are caused by different pathological mechanisms. In the present study we determined whether mechanical and thermal allodynia produced by unilateral transection of the 'superior' caudal trunk which innervates the tail in rats were differentially sensitive to the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801. Injection of MK-801 (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) prior to nerve injury delayed the emergence of both types of allodynia; the antagonist-treated rats exhibited neither mechanical nor thermal allodynia at least for 4 days after the injury, whereas untreated control rats exhibited clear signs of allodynia from the first day after the injury. MK-801 injection on post-injury day 14, when the allodynia was near peak severity, suppressed temporarily both the mechanical and thermal allodynia. These results suggest that the mechanical and thermal allodynia from partial denervation of the tail are both dependent on NMDA receptors in their induction and maintenance. Thus, our results do not support the notion that different pathological mechanisms underlie different modalities of neuropathic pain from partial peripheral nerve injury.
Human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y and small-cell lung carcinoma U1690 cells of neuroendocrine origin were exposed to morphine for 1 h, 3 h or 5 days. These treatments did not alter activities of AP-1, NF-kappa B and YY1 transcription factors in SH-SY5Y cells or NF-kappa B and YY1 in U1690 cells. Five-day morphine treatment, however, caused a twofold increase in the activity of a sequence-non-specific, spermidine-activated DNA-binding factor in U1690 cells. The morphine effect was prevented by the antagonist naloxone. The DNA-binding factor bound preferentially to double-stranded DNA ends. This fact and data on subunit composition, molecular masses of subunits, and supershift/inhibition by specific antibodies in a band shift assay, show the spermidine-activated factor to be identical with the Ku protein, the DNA-binding subunit of DNA-dependent protein kinase. The effect observed may be one of the mechanisms through which opioids influence gene regulation.
Cholinergic neurons of spinal cord are central for the processing of motor, autonomic, and sensory modalities. Aging is associated with a variety of motor and autonomic symptoms that might be attributed, in part, to impaired spinal cord function. We found that cholinergic neurochemistry is diminished in the spinal cord of 22-24-month-old rats compared with 3-month-old rats. Choline acetyltransferase, high-affinity choline transport and hemicholinium-3 binding to the choline carrier were reduced in the aged spinal cord. The activity of the choline transporter and the hemicholinium-3 binding were decreased in all spinal segments, cervical, thoracic, lumbar and sacral. Hemicholinium-3 binding was reduced in ventral and dorsal horns along all spinal segments. The activity of choline acetyltransferase was decreased only in cervical and lumbar cord. Treatment of aged animals with GM1 induced the recovery of the presynaptic cholinergic markers in the aged spinal cord.
The carbohydrate binding specificities of three sialoadhesins, a subgroup of I-type lectins (immunoglobulin superfamily lectins), were compared by measuring lectin-transfected COS cell adhesion to natural and synthetic gangliosides. The neural sialoadhesins, myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) and Schwann cell myelin protein (SMP), had similar and stringent binding specificities. Each required an alpha2,3-linked sialic acid on the terminal galactose of a neutral saccharide core, and they shared the following rank-order potency of binding: GQ1balpha &gt; GD1a = GT1b &gt; GM3 = GM4 &gt; GM1, GD1b, GD3, GQ1b (nonbinders). In contrast, sialoadhesin had less exacting specificity, binding to gangliosides that bear either terminal alpha2,3- or alpha2,8-linked sialic acids with the following rank-order potency of binding: GQ1balpha &gt; GD1a = GD1b = GT1b = GM3 = GM4 &gt; GD3 = GQ1b &gt; GM1 (nonbinder). CD22 did not bind to any ganglioside tested. Binding of MAG, SMP, and sialoadhesin was abrogated by chemical modification of either the sialic acid carboxylic acid group or glycerol side chain on a target ganglioside. Synthetic ganglioside GM3 derivatives further distinguished lectin binding specificities. Deoxy and/or methoxy derivatives of the 4-, 7-, 8-, or 9-position of sialic acid attenuated or eliminated binding of MAG, as did replacement of the sialic acid acetamido group with a hydroxyl. In contrast, the 4- and 7-deoxysialic acid derivatives supported sialoadhesin binding at near control levels (the other derivatives did not support binding). These data are consistent with sialoadhesin binding to one face of the sialic acid moiety, whereas MAG (and SMP) may have more complex binding sites or may bind sialic acids only in the context of more restricted oligosaccharide conformations.
A nonisotopic assay for tyrosine hydroxylase, with optimized signal-to-noise ratios, enables determination of low levels of enzyme activity in peripheral tissues. DOPA produced by the enzyme is measured using HPLC with electrochemical detection. Increased signal-to-noise ratios are obtained by including in the reaction mixture glycerol for reduction of blank values and dihydropteridine reductase and NADPH for regeneration of the tetrahydropteridine cofactor. With this method, tyrosine hydroxylase activity can be detected in as few as 200 PC12 cells and in peripheral tissues at levels as low as 4.5 fmol/min/mg wet weight. The assay permits activity to be assessed in a variety of peripheral tissues.
Fluvoxamine is a specific serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Recent evidence suggests that this antidepressive drug shortens the reaction time (RT) of healthy volunteers. The first objective of the present study was to decipher whether this effect is due to an improvement in information processing per se or to the adoption of an error-prone strategy. The second objective was to locate the effect of fluvoxamine within the series of information processing stages by means of Sternberg's additive factor method. After administration of a single oral dose of fluvoxamine (100 mg) or a placebo (randomized double-blind, cross-over design), eight healthy volunteers performed a choice RT task in which stimulus intensity, stimulus-response compatibility and response repertoire were manipulated. Fluvoxamine shortened RT without decreasing the accuracy of the responses. This demonstrates that fluvoxamine improves information processing per se. The effect of fluvoxamine was additive on RT with the respective effects of stimulus intensity and stimulus-response compatibility. This result suggests that fluvoxamine spares the processing stages of stimulus preprocessing and response selection.
It has been suggested that reduced astrocytic uptake of neuronally released glutamate contributes to the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy in acute liver failure. In order to further address this issue, the recently cloned and sequenced astrocytic glutamate transporter GLT-1 was studied in brain preparations from rats with ischemic liver failure induced by portacaval anastomosis followed 24 h later by hepatic artery ligation and from appropriate sham-operated controls. GLT-1 expression was studied using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Expression of GLT-1 transcript was significantly decreased in frontal cortex at coma stages of acute liver failure. Western blotting using a polyclonal antibody to GLT-1 revealed a concomitant decrease in expression of transporter protein in the brains of rats with acute liver failure. Reduced capacity of astrocytes to reuptake neuronally released glutamate, resulting from a GLT-1 transporter deficit and the consequently compromised neuron-astrocytic trafficking of glutamate could contribute to the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy and brain edema, two major complications of acute liver failure.
Spinal cord N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors play an important role in the transmission of acute and chronic pain. The present study investigated the ability of dextrorphan (DEX), a metabolite of dextromethorphan and a clinically safe NMDA antagonist, to attenuate the responses of nociceptive spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons in anesthetized monkeys. The STT cells were recorded extracellularly in the lumbosacral enlargement and were identified by antidromic activation from the ventral posterior lateral thalamic nucleus. DEX administered through a microdialysis fiber inserted into the dorsal horn inhibited the responses of STT cells in normal animals to noxious pinch and heat stimuli. In monkeys made neuropathic by tight ligation of the L7 or S1 spinal nerve, DEX significantly attenuated the responses of STT cells to noxious pinch and heat, as well as to innocuous brushing, pressure and von Frey filament stimuli. These findings strongly suggest that DEX should be considered a potentially useful therapeutic agent for the treatment of neuropathic pain in humans.
A 53-year-old man with multiple chemical sensitivities (MCS) received the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) citalopram for treatment of depression. The treatment was successful and, in parallel to the remission of the depressive symptoms, all MCS symptoms vanished. This suggests that a subgroup of MCS patients may have an atypical depression, that they should be psychiatrically evaluated, and that antidepressive pharmacological treatment may be considered in cases of MCS.

Using subjective ratings of the degree of alcohol intoxication, the interaction between the drinking history of the subjects, the alcohol dose, and acute alcohol tolerance were examined in light and moderate alcohol consumers (N = 10). Both groups of subjects were tested with doses of alcohol corresponding to 0.5 and 1.0 g/kg. Dose order was random and tests were carried out with an interval of 1 week. Reports of the subjects' previous experience with these doses of alcohol indicated that the moderate consumers ingested the lower (but not the higher) of the doses quite regularly, whereas light consumers were rather inexperienced with both of the doses. Comparison of blood alcohol concentrations as measured by breath and blood analysis yielded slightly different results, the concentrations being significantly higher as measured by breath analysis. This result was mainly associated with the initial phases, where this difference was greatest. Acute tolerance was assessed by comparing the ratings at equal concentrations of alcohol on the ascending and the descending limbs of the alcohol concentration curve. Due to the lag in the measurements of breath and blood alcohol concentrations, the outcome of the evaluations of acute tolerance was also influenced by whether breath or blood alcohol concentrations were used to obtain similar concentrations in both phases. Results based on the breath alcohol concentrations showed that in light alcohol consumers, acute tolerance was demonstrated for both of the doses. In moderate alcohol consumers only the higher of the doses produced evidence for acute tolerance. However, if comparisons are based on blood alcohol concentrations, moderate alcohol consumers also show an apparent acute tolerance for the lower of the doses tested. The present results clearly demonstrate the complexity of the acute tolerance phenomenon, and emphasize the fact that the results are dependent on the dose of alcohol, the subjects' prior experience with alcohol as well as the procedure used for measuring alcohol concentration.
The intracellular mechanisms mediating vasoconstriction by ethanol are poorly understood. This investigation was designed to provide evidence on the role of protein kinase C (PKC) and calmodulin in vasoconstriction by ethanol. We studied helically cut strips of rat aorta that were exposed to ethanol before and in the presence of the PKC inhibitors calphostin C (79, 239, and 798 nM) or 1-(5-isoquinolinylsulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine (H7, 10 microM), and the calmodulin inhibitor, trifluoperazine (TFP, 10 microM). To test for the specificity of the PKC inhibitors, we measured the responses of aortas to potassium and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) in the absence and presence of calphostin C and H7. To test for the specificity of TFP, we measured the responses of aortas to serotonin, potassium, PMA, and the thromboxane A2 mimic. 9,11-dideoxy-11 alpha, 9 alpha-epoxy-methanoprostaglandin F2a (U46619), in the absence and presence of TFP. We also studied the effect of the combination of calphostin C and TFP on constriction of the aorta by ethanol. We also measured the importance of intracellular and extracellular calcium in constriction of the aorta by ethanol. Force generation was measured before, and then during exposure of the strips to calcium-free buffer with EGTA, or calcium-free buffer with EGTA plus caffeine. We found that both PKC inhibitors antagonized vasoconstriction by ethanol and PMA. However, H7 antagonized contractions by potassium, but calphostin C did not. We found that TFP caused 99 +/- 1% inhibition of maximum contraction to serotonin, 90 +/- 4% inhibition of maximum contraction to potassium, 63 +/- 6% inhibition of maximum contraction to PMA, and 8 +/- 5% inhibition of maximum contraction to U46619. TFP caused a 22 +/- 8% inhibition of contraction to ethanol. The combination of TFP and calphostin C antagonized vasoconstriction by ethanol to a degree similar to that of calphostin C alone. We also found that contractions to ethanol were only 16 +/- 7% of control values in a calcium-free plus EGTA buffer. Contractions to ethanol were 0 +/- 1% of control values in calcium-free buffer with EGTA plus caffeine. We conclude that: 1-vasoconstriction by ethanol is, at least in part, mediated by PKC; 2-constriction by ethanol is mediated to a minimal extent by calmodulin, and 3-part of the constriction by ethanol of the aorta is mediated by a caffeine-sensitive pool of intracellular calcium.
Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats have been selectively bred for high ethanol preference and consumption over 16 years and 39 generations. The present paper briefly reviews some recent studies from this laboratory characterizing ethanol drinking behaviour in this rat line. Under the two-bottle regimen of free choice between 10% (v/v) ethanol and water, sP rats consume daily &gt;4 g of ethanol/kg and avoid water almost completely. Relevant features of ethanol drinking behaviour in sP rats are: (a) attainment of high ethanol intake from the first day of exposure to ethanol, suggestive of an immediate disclosure and acquisition of ethanol reinforcement; (b) titration of daily ethanol intake in distinct binges during the nocturnal phase of the light/dark cycle, indicative of their ability to regularize both ethanol dose and administration time; (c) achievement of pharmacologically relevant blood ethanol levels at each drinking episode; (d) substitution of the calories provided by ethanol for a part of those taken from food; (e) maintenance of constant ethanol intake (in g/kg/day) in the presence of ethanol concentrations varying from 7 to 30% (v/v). These results suggest that voluntary ethanol intake in sP rats is sustained by the search for specific pharmacological effects of ethanol. Anxiolysis is likely to be one of these effects; indeed, voluntarily consumed ethanol reversed the innate, high levels of anxiety in sP rats. These results portray sP rats as a valid model for investigating the association between ethanol drinking and anxiety. Finally, the breeding programme as well as results of neurochemical studies are also described.
Smooth muscle strips from guinea pig ileum were cultured for 5 days and then tested for contractile properties to investigate whether endogenous polyamines influence excitation-contraction coupling. Inhibition of spermidine and spermine synthesis by culture in the presence of the adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (EC4.1.1.50) inhibitor CGP-48664 (1-10 microM) decreased spermidine and spermine levels by 50% and increased putrescine by 20-fold. After culture with 10 microM, but not 1 microM, CGP-48664, the relationship between extracellular Ca2+ concentration and force in high K(+)-depolarized strips was shifted to the right, and phasic contractile activity as well as sensitivity to muscarinic stimulation was enhanced. When spermidine and spermine (each 50 microM) were available for cellular uptake during culture in the presence of 10 microM CGP-48664, spermidine and spermine concentrations were increased, and the effect on Ca2+ sensitivity was reversed. In strips cultured with 0 or 1 microM CGP-48664 in the presence of 50 microM spermidine and 50 microM spermine, no effect on Ca2+ sensitivity was observed. Force development relative to intracellular Ca2+ concentration was decreased in CGP-48664 (10 microM)-treated strips. The results suggest that endogenous polyamines influence excitation-contraction coupling in smooth muscle, although overall tissue concentrations may not reflect the polyamine pools responsible for this effect.
The cessation of firing of serotonergic dorsal raphe neurons is a key controlling event of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. We tested the hypothesis that this cessation of activity is due to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release using the in vivo microdialysis technique. We found that REM sleep is accompanied by a selective increase in GABA release, but not by a change in glutamate or glycine release in the dorsal raphe nucleus. Microinjection of the GABA agonist muscimol into the dorsal raphe increased REM sleep, although microperfusion of the GABA antagonist picrotoxin blocked REM sleep. These results implicate GABA release as a critical element in the production of the REM sleep state and in the control of discharge in serotonergic neurons across the sleep/wake cycle.
Despite intense study of neurotransmitters mediating hypothalamic controls of food intake, little is known about which second messengers are critical for these mechanisms. To determine whether adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) might participate in these mechanisms, we injected the membrane-permeant cAMP analog 8-bromo-cAMP (8-BrcAMP) hypothalamically in satiated rats. Injection of 8-BrcAMP (10-100 nmol) into the perifornical (PFH) and lateral hypothalamus (LH) dose dependently stimulated food intake of up to 15.7 g in 2 h. Significantly smaller responses were obtained with thalamic injections. In contrast to the strong stimulatory effects of PFH and LH 8-BrcAMP, cAMP and 8-bromo-guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (100 nmol) were ineffective, suggesting a chemically specific, intracellular action. Consistent with this, combined PFH injection of 7-deacetyl-7-O-(N-methylpiperazino)-tau-butyryl-forskolin dihydrochloride and 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, agents that increase endogeneous cAMP, stimulated eating of up to 9.9 g in 2 h. These results demonstrate that increases in PFH/LH cAMP can elicit complex, goal-oriented behavior, suggesting an important role for cAMP in hypothalamic mechanisms stimulating food intake.
The dose-response effects of intravenous infusion of prostacyclin on capillary permeability (the capillary filtration coefficient technique), hydrostatic capillary pressure, transcapillary filtration, and vascular tone were analyzed in vivo on cat skeletal muscle from a normal and an increased permeability level. Increased permeability was accomplished by intra-arterial infusion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha or histamine. Permeability effects of bradykinin were also analyzed. Prostacyclin decreased capillary permeability by 8% at a dose of 0.1 ng.kg-1.min-1 and at most by 30% below control attained at 2 ng.kg-1.min-1, also with no effect on vascular tone and hydrostatic capillary pressure. The permeability increase by tumor necrosis factor-alpha and histamine (by 54 and 73%) was more than counteracted by the simultaneous infusion of prostacyclin at 2 ng.kg-1.min-1. The vasodilator effect of tumor necrosis factor-alpha was also restituted. Indomethacin (prostacyclin inhibitor)-induced increase in capillary permeability (25%) was more than restituted by prostacyclin at 2 ng.kg-1.min-1. Surprisingly, bradykinin decreased capillary permeability. We conclude that endogenous prostacyclin may be a physiological regulator of capillary permeability and that low-dose prostacyclin infusion may have clinical relevance in states of increased permeability.
This study reports developmental changes in the vocal signals produced by wild-caught pre-volant and volant Myotis lucifugusAudio recordings were made from young animals (1-33 days old) and adults (over 1 year of age). The animals were removed from an attic maternity roost and studied individually in a room below. To stimulate flight-related behaviours, animals were released from a launching platform via a hinged floor, and their vocalizations were recorded as they approached a soft foam pad below. When the hinged floor opened, the youngest animals (1-4 days old) typically dropped onto the pad, but older animals either flapped their wings to achieve some horizontal displacement (&gt;4 days) or sustained horizontal flight (&gt;17 days). Vocalizations recorded under these conditions showed frequency modulation characteristic of adult echolocation sounds, even in animals as young as 4 days. Ontogenetic trends showed an increase in sound frequency, an increase in sound repetition rate and a decrease in sound duration as the animals matured. These data are discussed in the context of the development of echolocation behaviour in bats.






The system of reference used by an animal for memorizing the location of a hidden place to which it is liable to return (the goal) can be theoretically defined as being `self-centred', `local', or `overall'. According to the system of reference, the goal location is memorized by means of: (1) an egocentric coding that specifies the direction and distance to the goal with respect to the animal's current position; (2) an exocentric coding that specifies the apparent configuration of nearby landmarks as perceived from the goal; or (3) an exocentric coding based on a global representation of space over the whole range of movement, respectively. A compass provides useful directional information (to the species capable of deriving it) that may be used in the framework of any of the three systems of reference. A goal location may be memorized concurrently in the three systems of reference which are complementary rather than mutually exclusive. In particular, the joint use of the self-centred and local systems of reference has been demonstrated in animals of numerous species that are able to shift from the former to the latter while approaching a goal. In contrast, there is no clear evidence supporting that an animal is able to rely on a global representation of space.
The N400, an event-related brain potential (ERP) sensitive to semantic congruity, has been reported to have increased latency and/or reduced amplitude in young adults with schizophrenia. Little is known, however, regarding the N400 in older schizophrenia patients, especially those with late onset. We studied 18 middle-aged and elderly patients with schizophrenia and related psychoses (nine with early-onset psychosis (EOP) and nine with late-onset psychosis (LOP)), and nine normal comparison (NC) subjects. Subjects read words which were semantically incongruent (50%) or congruent (50%) with a preceding spoken phrase which defined either an antonymic or categorical relationship. The LOP group had a significantly later peak latency of the N400 congruity effect compared to the NC group. Seven of 18 psychosis patients, but none (0/9) of the normal subjects, had an abnormal latency or amplitude (p = 0.04), measured at T6 (right temporal). Smaller amplitudes were associated with more severe negative symptoms (rp = 0.58; p = 0.01). N400 abnormalities in older schizophrenia patients likely reflect abnormal processing of semantic information.
The design and implementation of a high-speed, random-access, laser-scanning fluorescence microscope configured to record fast physiological signals from small neuronal structures with high spatiotemporal resolution is presented. The laser-scanning capability of this nonimaging microscope is provided by two orthogonal acousto-optic deflectors under computer control. Each scanning point can be randomly accessed and has a positioning time of 3-5 microseconds. Sampling time is also computer-controlled and can be varied to maximize the signal-to-noise ratio. Acquisition rates up to 200k samples/s at 16-bit digitizing resolution are possible. The spatial resolution of this instrument is determined by the minimal spot size at the level of the preparation (i.e., 2-7 microns). Scanning points are selected interactively from a reference image collected with differential interference contrast optics and a video camera. Frame rates up to 5 kHz are easily attainable. Intrinsic variations in laser light intensity and scanning spot brightness are overcome by an on-line signal-processing scheme. Representative records obtained with this instrument by using voltage-sensitive dyes and calcium indicators demonstrate the ability to make fast, high-fidelity measurements of membrane potential and intracellular calcium at high spatial resolution (2 microns) without any temporal averaging.
We have previously shown that the 40-residue peptide termed amyloid beta-protein (A beta P[1-40]) in solution forms cation-selective channels across artificial phospholipid bilayer membranes. To determine whether A beta P[1-40] also forms channels across natural membranes, we used electrically silent excised membrane patches from a cell line derived from hypothalamic gonadotrophin-releasing hormone GnRH neurons. We found that exposing either the internal or the external side of excised membrane patches to A beta P[1-40] leads to the spontaneous formation of cation-selective channels. With Cs+ as the main cation in both the external as well as the internal saline, the amplitude of the A beta P[1-40] channel currents was found to follow the Cs+ gradient and to exhibit spontaneous conductance changes over a wide range (50-500 pS). We also found that free zinc (Zn2+), reported to bind to amyloid beta-protein in solution, can block the flow of Cs+ through the A beta P[1-40] channel. Because the Zn2+ chelator o-phenanthroline can reverse this blockade, we conclude that the underlying mechanism involves a direct interaction between the transition element Zn2+ and sites in the A beta P[1-40] channel pore. These properties of the A beta P[1-40] channel are rather similar to those observed in the artificial bilayer system. We also show here, by immunocytochemical confocal microscopy, that amyloid beta-protein molecules form deposits closely associated with the plasma membrane of a substantial fraction of the GnRH neurons. Taken together, these results suggest that the interactions between amyloid beta-protein and neuronal membranes also occur in vivo, lending further support to the idea that A beta P[1-40] channel formation might be a mechanism of amyloid beta-protein neurotoxicity.
Alfentanil is reported to increase intracranial pressure (ICP) after neurotrauma. A direct cerebral vasodilator effect has been postulated. We studied 17 Sprague-Dawley rats allocated to one of three groups. Animals were anaesthetized and their lungs ventilated, and arterial pressure, ICP and/or regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) measurements were undertaken. Group 1 (n = 6) received a severe closed head injury while group 2 (n = 5) received no injury. ICP and mean arterial pressure (MAP) were measured before, during and after rapid infusion of alfentanil 250, 500 and 750 micrograms kg-1. CBF was measured by hydrogen clearance before rapid infusions and at 30-min intervals after starting a subsequent slow infusion of alfentanil 500 micrograms kg-1 h-1. Group 3 (n = 6) underwent CBF measurement only, for comparison with those of groups 1 and 2. They received an injury but no alfentanil. ICP or MAP values did not differ significantly between groups 1 and 2. Rapid i.v. doses of alfentanil produced increases in ICP and reductions in MAP. ICP changes were consistent with a drug effect (P &lt; 0.001) but were small. Reductions in MAP were significant (P &lt; 0.05) and preceded changes in ICP. CBF values were similar and unaffected by slow alfentanil infusion in groups 1 and 2, and did not differ significantly between groups 1 and 3. We conclude that alfentanil did not appear to exert a direct effect on the cerebral circulation. Changes in ICP after rapid infusion were secondary to reductions in SAP. Slow infusion did not cause such changes.
1. In the present study the mechanisms were examined by which the neuropeptide galanin modulates the extracellular concentrations of striatal acetylcholine (ACh) in enflurane anaesthetized and in freely moving male rats by use of in vivo microdialysis and high performance liquid chromatography. 2. The perfusion of galanin through the microdialysis probe (0.3 nmol microl(-1), flow rate: 2 microl min(-1)) caused a statistically significant increase in the basal striatal ACh levels in anaesthetized but a decrease in awake animals. No significant effect was revealed after a low dose (0.1 nmol microl(-1), flow rate: 2 microl min(-1)) of galanin perfusion. Both the stimulating and inhibitory effects of galanin on basal ACh release were reversible. 3. The muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (0.1 mg kg(-1), subcutaneously (s.c.)) caused a significant increase in ACh release in both anaesthetized and awake animals. 4. The combination of galanin plus scopolamine attenuated the stimulant effect on ACh release caused by scopolamine alone in awake animals. 5. The putative galanin receptor antagonist M35 at 0.3 nmol microl(-1) but not at 0.1 nmol microl(-1) caused a significant reduction (20%) in ACh release, supporting the view that M35 at higher concentrations behaves as a partial agonist at the galanin receptor. When M35 (0.1 nmol microl(-1)) was co-infused with galanin (0.3 nmol microl(-1)) the galanin-evoked decrease in ACh release was completely blocked. 6. Taken together, these results indicate that galanin affects basal ACh release via stimulation of galanin receptors within the striatum. The mechanism involved is dependent on the anaesthesia procedure which may act via enhancement of gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABA(A)) mediated transmission within striatal and/or output neurones. In addition, anaesthesia may also decrease the activity of glutamatergic striatal afferents. The results with M35 indicate that the role of galanin perfused in striatum is permissive in the normal rat. Furthermore, galanin is a potent inhibitory modulator of basal ACh release also in the striatum, as recently was shown in the ventral hippocampus in awake animals.
Microangiopathy is considered relevant to the pathogenesis of several forms of peripheral nerve disease, particularly diabetic polyneuropathy. In diabetes, however, it is uncertain whether reductions in mixed nerve trunk blood flow account for early features of polyneuropathy in contrast to later disease, where microvascular changes have been described. To address this issue, we measured local sural nerve blood flow in patients with mild diabetic polyneuropathy who were enrolled in a clinical trial (n = 26), patients with other polyneuropathies being studied by diagnostic sural nerve biopsy (n = 17), patients with vasculitic polyneuropathy (n = 3) and one patient with rapidly progressive severe diabetic polyneuropathy and lumbosacral plexopathies. Standardized measurements were made at 10 sites along the sural nerve of each patient prior to sural nerve resection for biopsy. We used a laser Doppler flowmetry probe sensitive to red blood cell flux to measure sural nerve blood flow. This was slightly higher in patients with mild diabetes compared with those with other polyneuropathies, but was reduced in patients with vasculitis. In patients with mild diabetes, there was no relationship between sural nerve blood flow and prebiopsy sural nerve action-potential amplitude, sural myelinated fibre density, haemoglobin A1C, duration of diabetes or age of the patient. Ten diabetic patients entered in the clinical trial had sural nerve blood flow recorded in one sural nerve, followed 1 year later by a second sural nerve blood flow measurement prior to biopsy of the contralateral sural nerve. Despite a mild trend toward decline in fibre density between the nerves over this period of time, sural nerve blood flow was similar. The patient with severe diabetic polyneuropathy and lumbosacral plexopathies had reduced sural nerve blood flow. Our findings do not provide evidence that reductions in sural nerve blood flow are associated with early peripheral neuropathy in diabetes, unlike vasculitis. The early trend toward slight rises in sural nerve blood flow may be a result of early functional microangiopathy that accompanies nerve dysfunction but does not cause it.
We analysed the clinical, imaging, electrophysiological, laboratory findings, course and prognostic factors in 31 patients with acute transverse myelitis (20 men and 11 women; mean age, 30 years; range, 18-51 years). All patients were assessed for maximal clinical deficit 'deficit score'; pattern-shift visual, auditory and somatosensory evoked potentials were measured, CSF was examined, and neuroimaging of the spinal cord and brain (MRI or CT myelography) was carried out. The myelitis was preceded by febrile illness in 25 (81%) of the patients. The site of the lesion was cervical in 11 (36%), upper thoracic in two (6%), lower thoracic in 16 (52%). MRI of the spinal cord was abnormal in 10 out of the 20 patients examined (50%); in the remaining 11 patients, only CT was carried out and it was normal in all of them. Somatosensory evoked potentials were abnormal in 19 (61%), while pattern-shift visual and brainstem auditory evoked potentials were normal in all patients. CSF was abnormal in 94% of patients with pleocytosis, increased protein or both. Eighteen patients (58%) had good outcome. All patients had monophasic illness. Three variables have emerged as being associated with significant worsening of the outcome: (i) abnormal somatosensory evoked potentials; (ii) abnormal imaging and (iii) high 'deficit score' at onset. Acute transverse myelitis affects a complete segment of the spinal cord, is monophasic and represents a localized form of postinfectious acute encephalomyelitis.
The relationship between acetylcholine (ACh) efflux in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and performance in a visual discrimination task and a variable interval (VI) schedule of reinforcement was studied in rats. Animals were pretrained in one of the two tasks and then unilaterally implanted with microdialysis guide cannula into the mPFC. Animals were then dialyzed, during 12 min collection intervals, in the operant chambers prior to task onset and during and after task performance. Each animal was dialyzed for a total of four sessions: two standard task sessions, one session in which a houselight was flashed at 0.5 Hz during the third 12 min block, and an extinction session (always the last session) in which reinforcement was withheld during the final three blocks. Response accuracy in the discrimination task was very high (&gt; 95% correct) and stable across the four blocks with a progressive increase in omissions. The flashing houselight did not affect performance whereas the loss of reinforcement led to an increase in omissions. VI performance was associated with a high number of lever presses and a high reward rate that declined over the four blocks. Again, the flashing houselight did not affect VI performance whereas lever pressing declined markedly during the extinction session. ACh efflux did not change, relative to baseline, during performance in either task, or with the presentation of the flashing houselight or the loss of reinforcement. These data contrast with the changes in cortical ACh efflux observed in situations characterized by the presentation of novel stimuli or changing demands on attentional processing and, therefore, assist in the specification of hypotheses on the cognitive functions of cortical ACh.
Interference between two concurrent tasks can be measured as an increased reaction time during simultaneous performance compared to when each task is performed alone. We tested the hypothesis that two tasks interfere because they require activation of overlapping areas of the cerebral cortex. With positron emission tomography we measured cortical activation as fields with significant increase in regional cerebral blood flow during single task performance of an auditory and a visual go/no-go task and an auditory and a visual short-term memory (STM) task. In a separate experiment we measured the degree of interference between the two go/no-go tasks and between the two STM tasks during dual task performance. Both the two go/no-go tasks and the two STM tasks activated overlapping parts of the cortex and interfered significantly during dual task performance. The two STM tasks had a larger volume of overlap and also significantly larger increase in reaction time during dual task performance, compared to the go/no-go tasks. The results thus indicate that two concurrent tasks interfere, with a resulting increase in reaction time, if they require activation of overlapping parts of the cortex.
Islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) is structurally related to calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and has been implicated in glucose homeostasis and diabetes pathogenesis because it is expressed in insulin cells and forms amyloid in pancreatic islets from type II diabetic patients. IAPP is also constitutively co-expressed with CGRP in rat sensory neurons. Whether expression of IAPP is altered by nerve injury with or without regeneration was investigated in adult rats subjected to unilateral sciatic axotomy; IAPP and CGRP expression were determined by quantitative in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry at days 3, 10 and 30 after axotomy. In ipsilateral L4-L5 dorsal root ganglia (DRG), the percentages of nerve cell profiles labelled for IAPP and CGRP mRNA were reduced at all time points studied. IAPP and CGRP mRNA expression were lower in nerve cell profiles in ipsilateral DRGs compared to the contralateral side after axotomy alone whereas epineurial nerve suture maintained or restored IAPP and CGRP expression. The numbers of IAPP- and CGRP-immunoreactive DRG nerve cell profiles and dorsal horn fibers were reduced on the ipsilateral side at all time points. Thus, IAPP and CGRP expression are down-regulated upon axotomy. Nerve repair maintains or restores IAPP and CGRP expression in individual neurons but does not prevent the loss of CGRP/IAPP phenotype of some of these neurons in response to axotomy.
We have cloned a rat genomic DNA fragment of approximately 12.5 kb. Nine kb of the cloned fragment lie in the 5'-flanking region of the gene and contain the promoter elements, while the remaining 3.5 kb contain the first four complete exons, the first three introns, and part of the fourth intron of the rat galanin gene. We have partially analysed some of the elements within the proximal sequence of this promoter which may influence the transcriptional regulation of the rat galanin gene. The rat galanin-gene promoter contains many regions which share homology with both the human and the bovine galanin genes and certain cis-elements appear to be conserved among the three species. In an attempt to test whether some of these elements are functional in the rat gene, transient transfection studies were carried out in selected cell lines. Estrogen, thyroid hormone and retinoic acid all showed a minimal degree of promoter stimulation when the rat galanin-gene promoter was co-transfected with the appropriate hormone receptors in Neuro 2A cells, while co-transfection of the nuclear orphan receptor ELP1 was able to stimulate transcription of a galanin promoter-driven reporter-gene construct (-374 bp) by 35-fold. The galanin promoter mediated a 3-4-fold induction in response to forskolin or TPA. Deletion of a 5-bp element at -50 bp from the start of transcription was able to greatly reduce the forskolin response but not the TPA response. These results point to several elements that may be targets of transcription factors linked to extracellular stimuli.
The production of nerve growth factor (NGF) in peripheral organs may play a role in the pathophysiology of hypertension and in obstructive disorders of the bladder outlet. We have been examining the cellular processes of NGF delivery and secretion in smooth muscle. NGF secretion from vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) cultured from genetically hypertensive (WKHT), hyperactive (WKHA), and a control Wistar rat strain were assayed using a two-site ELISA of the culture media. Bladder smooth muscle cells (BSMCs) from the Wistar strain were also studied. The serine protease, thrombin, increased NGF secretion from all types of VSMCs but had no effect on Wistar BSMCs. The thrombin-mediated increase in NGF secretion was prevented by actinomycin D and cycloheximide, suggesting that RNA transcription and protein synthesis are required. The effect of thrombin was additive with a phorbol ester-induced elevation in NGF secretion rates from 4 to 6 h and was attenuated by a 24-h downregulation of protein kinase C. These results suggest that extracellular protease activity may regulate NGF secretion in smooth muscle. Thrombin may act in response to vascular injury, increasing NGF secretion from VSMCs, initiating VSMC migration, and preparing the VSMCs for reinnervation following an insult.
In the present report we describe a morphological anomaly of the thalamus. In three macaque monkeys (Macaca fascicularis), we observed up to five finger-like protrusions that emanated from the posterior pole of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and extended posteriorly between the lateral pulvinar and reticular nucleus of the thalamus. These anomalous fingers measured up to 1.7 mm in length and contained dense accumulations of neurons and glia. The fingers received a direct retinal input from the contralateral eye indicating that they were part of the LGN rather than of other adjacent thalamic nuclei. In order to determine with which subcompartment(s) of the LGN the fingers were associated (parvocellular, magnocellular, or intercalated layers), we examined the immunochemical properties and size of neurons in the fingers and LGN subcompartments. We concluded that the fingers were not associated with the intercalated layers, since neurons in the fingers did not stain with an antibody to calbindin-D28k, whereas intercalated neurons stained intensely with this antibody. In addition, neurons located in the fingers were significantly smaller than those found in the magnocellular layers but were not significantly different in size from neurons in the parvocellular layers. We therefore consider that the fingers are an anomaly of the parvocellular subcompartment of the LGN. Interestingly, in two of the three cases with anomalous fingers, we also observed subsidiary parvocellular laminae, suggesting that these two anomalies were related. In five additional animals, however, we observed subsidiary parvocellular laminae without anomalous fingers. Thus, if there are common mechanisms underlying the development of both anomalous fingers and subsidiary layers, our data indicate that they do not always result in the concomitant expression of both anomalies.
Working memory (WM) is known to activate the prefrontal cortex. In the present study we hypothesized that when additional contingencies are added to the instruction of a WM task, this would increase the WM load and result in the activation of additional prefrontal areas. With positron emission tomography we measured regional cerebral blood flow in nine subjects performing a control task and two delayed matching to sample tasks, in which the subjects were matching colours and patterns to a reference picture. The second of the two delayed matching tasks had a more complex instruction than the first, with additional contingencies of how to alternate between the matching of colours and patterns. This task thus required the subjects not only to remember a stimulus to match but also to perform this matching according to a specified plan. Both delayed matching tasks activated cortical fields in the middle frontal gyrus, the frontal operculum, upper cingulate gyrus, inferior parietal cortex and cortex lining the intraparietal sulcus, all in the left hemisphere. When alternated delayed matching was compared to simple delayed matching, increases were located in the right superior and middle frontal gyrus and the right anterior inferior parietal cortex. The increased demand during alternated matching thus resulted in bilateral activation of both dorsolateral prefrontal and inferior parietal cortex. The area in the inferior parietal cortex has previously been coactivated with the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in several WM tasks, irrespective of the sensory modality of the stimuli, and during tasks involving planning.
The correct treatment of patients with cerebrovascular accident should be established after understanding the phenomena that affect the cerebral tissue from the beginning of the stroke up to its healing. The cerebral edema pathophysiology, the role played by glutamate and calcium in the brain toxicity, and by neurotrophic factors and neuroplasticity in recovery, are treated. Moreover, changes in mood after a stroke, are related to the side of the lesion. A comment on the different techniques of rehabilitation as part of treatment of patient with brain injury, is given.

I describe SWEEPS, a program for the acquisition and analysis of neurophysiological data written with LabWindows/CVI. SWEEPS includes many features of general interest to neurobiologists, such as digital filtering, window discrimination, and the construction of peristimulus time histograms. As the program is written using LabWindows/CVI, a C-programming system which includes routines for many data-processing and display tasks, it can be easily modified to accommodate new analysis needs as they arise.
Thirty-one patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) underwent a test battery of complex visual tasks. We assessed the scores using a principal-factor analysis to elucidate the underlying deficits. There were three independent factors: The first factor included the tasks of identifying and comparing forms of visual stimuli. The second factor consisted of digit span and digit symbol tasks, and the third factor consisted of a specified visual counting task. We considered these three factors as representing the dysfunctions of object recognition, general attention and spatial recognition, respectively. These results underline the disturbances of the two visual systems, object vision and spatial vision, in early-AD patients.
Motor, perceptual, and cognitive skill learning abilities of mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients were compared to sex-, age-, and education-matched controls. We excluded patients who were unable to perform each skill learning task with a predetermined criterion. In those who completed the task, skill learning was as good as in normal controls. On the cognitive and perceptual skill learnings, some of the AD patients, whose cognitive but not declarative memory functions were more severely impaired than in those who completed the whole session, failed to complete the task, while all patients could complete the motor task. These results support that view that patients with mild AD can acquire motor, perceptual, and cognitive skills and that the neural system subserving procedural skill is not related to the neural systems for declarative memory.
The role of neurotrophin-3 (NT3) during sensory neuron development was investigated in transgenic mice overexpressing NT3 under the control of the promoter and enhancer regions of the nestin gene, an intermediate filament gene widely expressed in the developing nervous system. Most of these mice died during the first postnatal day, and all showed severe limb ataxia suggestive of limb proprioceptive dysfunction. Tracing and histological analyses revealed a complete loss of spindles in limb muscles, absence of peripheral and central Ia projections, and lack of cells immunoreactive to parvalbumin in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG). Despite these deficits, there was no neuronal loss in the DRG of these mice. At birth, transgenic DRG showed increased neuron numbers, and displayed a normal proportion of neurons expressing substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide and the NT3 receptor trkC. Transgenic dorsal roots exhibited an increased number of axons at birth, indicating that all sensory neurons in transgenic mice projected to the dorsal spinal cord. Despite the absence of central Ia afferents reaching motorneurons, several sensory fibers were seen projecting towards ectopic high levels of NT3 in the midline of transgenic spinal cords. These findings suggest novel roles for NT3 in differentiation of proprioceptive neurons, target invasion and formation of Ia projections which are independent from its effects on neuronal survival.

Four L-glutamate neurotransmitter transporters, the three Na(+)-dependent GLAST-1, GLT-1 and EAAC-1, and the Cl(-)-dependent EAAT-4, form a new family of structurally related integral plasma membrane proteins with different distribution in the central nervous system. They may have pivotal functions in the regulation of synaptic L-glutamate concentration during neurotransmission and are believed to prevent glutamate neurotoxicity. To investigate the specific physiological and pathophysiological role of the neuronal EAAC-1, which is also expressed in kidney and small intestine, we have generated two independent mouse lines lacking EAAC-1. eaac-1(-/-) mice develop dicarboxylic aminoaciduria. No neurodegeneration has been observed during a period of &gt;12 months, but homozygous mutants display a significantly reduced spontaneous locomotor activity.

Little is known about the appearance and severity of amygdaloid damage in temporal lobe epilepsy, particularly in its early stages. In the present magnetic resonance imaging study, we measured amygdaloid volumes and T2 relaxation times in 29 patients with newly diagnosed and in 54 patients with chronic temporal lobe epilepsy. The control population included 25 normal subjects. In the newly diagnosed patients, the mean amygdaloid volume did not differ from that in controls. Also, in the chronic patients the mean amygdaloid volume did not differ from that in controls or in newly diagnosed patients. However, in 19% of the chronic patients the amygdaloid volume was reduced by at least 20%. Moreover, in all of the epilepsy patients, both chronic and newly diagnosed, we found an inverse correlation between the number of epileptic seizures the patient had experienced and the amygdaloid volume on the focal side (focus on the left, r = -0.371, P &lt; 0.01; focus on the right, r = -0.348, P &lt; 0.05). The mean T2 relaxation time in newly diagnosed or chronic patients did not differ from each other or from control values. However, the T2 relaxation time of the left amygdala was &gt; or = 111 msec (i.e., &gt; or = 2 S.D. over the mean T2 time of the left amygdala in control subjects) in seven (10%) patients, one of which was newly diagnosed and six were chronic. The T2 time of the right amygdala was prolonged in eight (12%) patients, three of which were newly diagnosed and five were chronic. We did not find any clear asymmetries in amygdaloid volumes or T2 relaxation times between the ipsilateral and contralateral sides relative to seizure focus. According to the present findings, signs of amygdaloid damage were observed in approximately 20% of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy, most of which had chronic epilepsy.
The number of ovulated oocytes in the adult house musk shrews was examined by natural mating. The positive rate of ovulation was 83.3%, and the mean number of ovulated oocytes was 4.4 +/- 1.9 (Mean +/- SD). The induction of superovulation was examined by administering either pregnant mare's serum gonadotropin (PMSG) or human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), exogenous gonadotropin, to house musk shrews. As a result, the number of ovulated oocytes were within the number of oocytes ovulated spontaneously. The method of superovulation induction by administering both PMSG and hCG to house musk shrews was investigated. In the group intraperitoneally with 7.5 i.u. of PMSG followed by 7.5 i.u. of hCG 48 hr later, the positive rate of ovulation was as high as 94.6% and the mean number of ovulated oocytes was 11.7 +/- 13.4. Moreover, in 15 out of these 35 animals positive for ovulation, 10 oocytes or more were observed and the mean number of ovulated oocytes was 21.0 +/- 16.5, showing the superovulatory response. In the group of 5.0 i.u. PMSG and 5.0 i.u. hCG injected at an interval of 72 hr, every animal was induced to ovulate and the mean number of ovulated oocytes was 41.3 +/- 19.9. Thus, the injection of PMSG and hCG at a longer interval increased the number of superovulated oocytes. Furthermore, 97.5% of eggs recovered from superovulating animals contained cumulus cells.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has recently been shown to signal by binding to GDNF receptor-alpha (GDNFR-alpha), after which the GDNF-GDNFR-alpha associates with and activates the tyrosine kinase receptor Ret. We have localized Ret messenger RNA (mRNA) in the developing and adult rodent and compared with to the expression of GDNF and GDNFR-alpha mRNA. Ret mRNA is strongly expressed in dopamine neurons and alpha-motor neurons as well as in thalamus, ruber and occluomotor nuclei, the habenular complex, septum, cerebellum, and brain stem nuclei. Ret mRNA was also found in several sensory systems, in ganglia, and in nonneuronal tissues such as teeth and vibrissae. Very strong Ret mRNA signals are present in kidney and the gastrointestinal tract, where Ret and GDNF mRNA expression patterns are precisely complementary. The presence of Ret protein was confirmed in adult dopamine neurons using immunohistochemistry. GDNFR-alpha mRNA was strongly expressed in the developing and adult dopamine neurons. It was also found in neurons in deep layers of cortex cerebri, in hippocampus, septum, the dentate gyrus, tectum, and the developing spinal cord. In the kidney and the gastrointestinal tract, GDNFR-alpha mRNA and Ret mRNA distribution overlapped. Dorsal root ganglia, cranial ganglia, and developing peripheral nerves were also positive. GDNFR-alpha was additionally found in sensory areas and in developing teeth. Sensory areas included inner ear, eye, olfactory epithelium, and the vomeronasal organ, as well as developing tongue papillae. The temporospatial pattern of expression of GDNFR-alpha mRNA did not always match that of Ret mRNA. For instance, GDNFR-alpha mRNA was also found in the developing ventral striatum, including the olfactory tubercle, and in hippocampus. These areas seemed devoid of Ret mRNA, suggesting that GDNFR-alpha might also have functions unrelated to Ret.
A technique was developed to measure, in the anesthetized and paralyzed cat under artificial ventilation, changes of excitability to intraspinal stimulation simultaneously in two different afferent fibers or in two collaterals of the same afferent fiber. Intraspinal stimulation reduced the threshold of single muscle afferent fibers ending in the intermediate nucleus. This effect was seen with strengths below those required to activate the afferent fiber tested (1.5-12 microA), occurred at a short latency (1.5-2.0 ms), reached a maximum between 15 and 30 ms, and lasted up to 100 ms. The effects produced by graded stimulation applied at the shortest conditioning-testing stimulus time intervals increased by fixed steps, suggesting recruitment of discrete elements, most likely of last-order interneurons mediating primary afferent depolarization (PAD). The short-latency increases in excitability produced by the weakest effective intraspinal stimuli were usually detected only in the collateral closest to the stimulating micropipette, indicating that the stimulated interneurons mediating PAD have spatially restricted actions. The short-latency PAD produced by intraspinal stimuli, as well as the PAD produced by stimulation of the posterior biceps and semitendinosus (PBSt) nerve or by stimulation of the bulbar reticular formation (RF), was depressed 19-30 min after the i.v. injection of 0.5 mg/kg of picrotoxin, suggesting that all these effects were mediated by GABAergic mechanisms. The PAD elicited by stimulation of muscle and/or cutaneous nerves was depressed following the i.v. injection of (-)-baclofen, whereas the PAD elicited in the same collateral by stimulation of the RF was baclofen-resistant. The short-latency PAD produced by intraspinal stimulation was not always depressed by i.v. injections of (-)-baclofen. Baclofen-sensitive and baclofen-resistant monosynaptic PADs could be produced in different collaterals of the same afferent fiber. The results suggest that the intraspinal terminals of single muscle afferents receive synapses from more than one PAD-mediating GABAergic interneuron and that a single last-order interneuron has synaptic connections with a restricted number of intraspinal terminals and/or collaterals of the same afferent fiber. In addition, they support the existence of separate subsets of last-order baclofen-sensitive and baclofen-resistant interneurons that respond predominantly to segmental and to descending inputs. It is suggested that the restricted nature of the PAD plays an important role in the central control of the synaptic effectiveness of group I muscle afferents.
The various cell groups in the human hypothalamus show different patterns of aging, which are the basis for changes in biological rhythms, hormone production, autonomic functions, and behavior. The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the clock of the brain, exhibits circadian and seasonal rhythms in vasopressin synthesis that are disrupted later in life. Furthermore, the age-related sexual differences in the number of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide neurons in this nucleus reinforces the idea that the SCN is not only involved in the timing of circadian rhythms but also in the temporal organization of reproductive functions. The sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic are (SDN-POA), or intermediate nucleus, is twice as large in men as in women, a difference that arises between the ages of two to four years and puberty. During aging a dramatic, sex-dependent decrease in cell number occurs, leading to values which are only 10-15% of the cell number found in early childhood. The vasopressin and oxytocin producing cells in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) and paraventricular nucleus (PVN) are examples of neuron populations that seem to stay perfectly intact in old age. Parvocellular corticotropin-releasing hormone-containing neurons are found throughout the PVN and are even activated in the course of aging, as indicated by their increase in number and by their coexpression with vasopressin. Part of the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARH), or tubero-infundibular nucleus, contains hypertrophic neurons in postmenopausal women. These hypertrophied neurons contain neurokinin-B, substance P, and estrogen receptors and probably act on LHRH neurons as interneurons. The tuberal lateral nucleus (NTL), involved in feeding behavior and energy metabolism, does not show any neuronal loss in senescence. These findings indicate that each cell group of the human hypothalamus has its own sex-specific pattern of aging. In fact, some hypothalamic nuclei show a dramatic functional decline with aging, whereas others seem to become more active later in life.
The neuronal damage produced by the mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid (3NPA) has been suggested to replicate much of the neuropathology seen in Huntington's disease (HD) and therefore might be used in an animal model. We investigated the susceptibility to this toxin of different neuronal populations in addition to the commonly studied caudate putamen by injecting 3NPA into seven different brain regions as well as systemically. After different survival times, rats were intracardially perfused, brain sections were processed with the Gallyas silver technique, and impregnated neurons were mapped with a computerized microscope. Intracerebral administration of 3NPA resulted in a lesion, the center of which was devoid of tissue while the area was surrounded by a halo of Golgi-like impregnated neurons. In addition to local damage, rats receiving microinjections into the frontal cortex, caudate putamen, basal forebrain, and amygdala displayed argyrophilic neurons in the thalamus corresponding to the topography of thalamofugal neurons projecting to the individual injection sites. On the other hand, negligible secondary damage was seen after injections into the internal capsule, thalamus, or substantia nigra, implicating that thalamofugal axons are especially vulnerable to the local effect of this toxin. Two and a half days after systemic administration of 3NPA, a diffuse argyrophilic neuronal reaction was seen in the dorsolateral part of the caudate putamen, together with a more regionally selective staining of neurons in different cortical areas and the hippocampus. These morphopathological changes were also accompanied by motor deficits. The affected neurons in the cortical regions were primarily in those layers (V and VI) and areas (medial prefrontal, caudal insular/periphinal, and ventral temporal) that do not project toward the lesioned striatal area; therefore, the cortical pathology may represent another primary site of action of the toxin. Among the affected neurons in the hippocampal complex were pyramidal neurons in the CA1 region as well as various neurons in the CA3 region and dentate hilar area. These studies suggest that a combination of 3NPA administration and a sensitive silver-impregnation method may unravel the potential site of primary neuronal damage in this animal model. Furthermore, these findings may contribute to the understanding of how the disease progresses in HD from the originally affected neuronal population(s) by the recruitment of closely related systems and pathways.
1. This paper reviews the selective lesioning techniques employed to elucidate the role of the neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin and single, identified interneurons in the feeding system of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. 2. The pathway lesioning work reviewed in this paper showed that dopamine is necessary for the feeding response to occur and serotonin has a mainly modulatory role in the feeding system of Lymnaea. 3. The photoinactivation results reviewed here assist in the elucidation of the different roles that different types of interneurons play in the initiation and modulation of patterned neuronal activity underlying feeding.

The development of the statocyst of the freshwater snail Biomphalaria glabrata has been examined from embryo to adult. Special emphasis was put on the growth of the statoconia in the statocysts. In the statocysts of embryonic snails (90-120 h after oviposition) there is not a single statolith but an average of 40-50 statoconia per statocyst. The number of statoconia increases to 385-400 when the snails reach a shell diameter of 4 mm and remains relatively constant thereafter, irrespective of shell size. Small statoconia are found in supporting cells, which suggests that the statoconia are produced within these cells. The average diameter of statoconia and the total mass of statoconia increase with increasing shell diameter. The average number of large statoconia (diameter &gt; 7 microm) per statocyst continues to increase from 2 to 10 mm animals while the number of small ones (diameter &lt; 4 microm) initially rises and then decreases after 4 mm. These results demonstrate continuous growth of the statoconia in the cyst lumen of Biomphalaria. The single statoconia vibrate in a regular pattern in vivo, indicating beating of the statocyst cilia. The statoconia sink under the influence of gravity to load and stimulate receptor cells which are at the bottom. The length of cilia and the size of statocyst gradually increase as the animal grows. However, the increase in the volume of the statocyst is relatively small compared with the increase in body weight during normal development.
The structure of the statocyst of the freshwater snail Biomphalaria glabrata has been examined by light and electron microscopy. The two statocysts are located on the dorsal-lateral side of the left and right pedal ganglion. The statocysts are spherical, fluid-filled capsules with a diameter of approximately 60 microm for young and 110 microm for adult snails. The wall of the cyst is composed of large receptor cells and many smaller supporting cells. The receptor cells bear cilia which are evenly distributed on the apical surface. The cilia have the typical 9+2 internal tubule configuration. Striate rootlets originate from the base of the basal body and run downward into the cytoplasm. Side-roots arise from one side of the basal body and a basal foot from the other. For each receptor cell, the basal foot always points to the periphery of the surface, indicating that the receptor cell is non-polarized. The receptor cells contain cytoplasmic organelles such as mitochondria, ribosomes, rough and smooth endoplasmic reticulum, compact Golgi bodies and multivesicular bodies. Supporting cells bearing microvilli are interposed between the receptor cells. The junction complex between the supporting cells and the receptor cells is composed of adherens and septate junctions, while between supporting cells only the adherens junctions are present. The static nerve arises from the lateral side of the cyst and contains axons in which parallel neurotubules and mitochondria are found. The axons arise directly from the base of the receptor cells without synapse. In the cyst lumen there are unattached statoconia. The statoconia have a plate-like or concentric membranous ring structure. Based on the morphology, the function of the statocyst in Biomphalaria is discussed.
Keratan sulfate (KS) was immunolocalized in the chinchilla cochlea and vestibular system using indirect immunohistochemistry and a monoclonal antibody (clone 5-D-4) directed against a proteoglycan core antigen. As a positive control, anti-KS Mab reactivity was found in the pericellular matrix and lacuna walls of temporal bone osteocytes. In the cochlea, anti-KS Mab reactivity was abundant in the basal cell layer of the stria vascularis and in the marginal band and Hensen's stripe of the tectorial membrane. Less anti-KS Mab reactivity was present in the cover net, Hardesty's membrane and the upper fibrous zone of the limbal layer of the tectorial membrane. In the vestibular system, anti-KS Mab reactivity was immunolocalized to a portion of the epithelium overlying the cupula of the crista ampullaris, in the apical surface of crista ampullaris epithelium, crista ampullaris stereocilia and in the otoconia. Elucidating the distribution of KS in the cochlea will improve our understanding of cochlear anatomy and is a first step toward understanding the etiology of hearing loss observed in diseases involving KS metabolism, namely, mucopolysaccharidosis type IV (Morquio's syndrome).
Selenoprotein P is an extracellular heparin-binding protein that has been implicated in protecting the liver against oxidant injury. Its location in liver, kidney, and brain was determined by conventional immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy using a polyclonal antiserum. Selenoprotein P is associated with endothelial cells in the liver and is more abundant in central regions than in portal regions. It is also present in kidney glomeruli associated with capillary endothelial cells. Staining of selenoprotein P in the brain is also confined to vascular endothelial cells. The heparin-binding properties of selenoprotein P could be the basis for its binding to tissue. Its localization to the vicinity of endothelial cells is potentially relevant to its oxidant defense function.
Axons often regrow to their targets and lost functions may be restored after an injury in the peripheral nervous system. In contrast, axonal regeneration is generally very limited after injuries in the central nervous system, and functional impairment is usually permanent. The regenerative capacity depends on intrinsic neuronal factors as well as the interaction of neurons with other cells. Glial cells may, in different situations, either support or inhibit axonal growth. This review discusses the molecular mechanisms that are involved in promoting and inhibiting axonal regeneration in the nervous system after injuries.
The clinical, pathophysiological and therapeutic approaches to the representative involuntary movements encountered in the aged are described. The prevalence rates of Parkinson disease and essential tremor are very high, and their diagnoses and treatments are quite important. Recent advances in treating Parkinson disease with anti-parkinsonian medications and essential tremor with beta-adrenergic blockers were presented. Blepharospasms, though uncommon, but occasionally seen in the aged persons, are disabled conditions. The botulinus toxin injections to the orbicularis oculi muscles proved to show dramatic therapeutic effects, greatly contributing to these patients' ADL. The importance of neuroscience in the coming 21st century is also stressed.
This study examined the effects of maintaining cells in different media and the role of serum in glutamate and NMDA-induced neurotoxicity in rat cerebellar granule cells. Glutamate stimulated a concentration-dependent cell death with similar potency in cerebellar granule cells grown in BME and Neurobasal media without serum. However, the maximal cell death to glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) varied in the different media compositions. In the presence of serum, glutamate and NMDA-induced excitotoxicity was abolished, suggesting a factor(s) in serum which influences glutamate-receptor mediated death. The protective effect of serum could be overcome by chronic stimulation with high doses of glutamate. The glutamate-stimulated increase in intracellular calcium load was attenuated in the presence of serum, resulting from an elevated basal calcium level, suggesting an association between raised basal calcium and neuroprotection.
When examining anchor residues of a peptide 0405BP2 (1SPGTGAYYVLLN12) that was eluted from purified HLA-DR4 molecules (DRA/DRB1*0405), we found that heptamer peptides K7YYVLLN12 and K7YAALAN12 could bind to DR4 with the same affinity as 0405BP2, where artificially added Lys increases the solubility of peptides, and 7Y, 10L and 12N function as major anchor residues. In contrast, none of K8YVLLN12, K8AALAN12, K7YYVLL11 and K7YAALA11 had any detectable binding. Similar results were obtained with peptide K1WAASAAAAA9 that binds to DR9 (DRA/DRB1*0901) where 1W and 4S function as major anchor residues; K1WAASAA6, but not K1WAASA5 or K2AASAAAAA9 did bind to DR9 molecules. These data indicate that, when the most N-terminal anchor is designated as P1 (position 1), P1-6 but not P7-9 is essential, for binding at least to HLA-DR4 and DR9 molecules.
The cerebral sphingolipidoses which form part of a larger group of lysosomal disorders can be detected and conclusively confirmed by the demonstration of the relevent enzyme deficiency in easily available tissue samples like serum. We have assayed acid -galactosidase, -hexosaminidase and its isozymes hexosaminidase A and B, and arylsulfatase A in the serum of patients with progressive cerebral dysfunction and detected 18 patients with enzyme defects, thereby confirming the diagnosis of a specific type of cerebral lipidosis in these patients. The assay of serum lysosomal enzymes was of immense diagnostic use as it obviated the need for highly invasive techniques like a brain biopsy.
Type Ib glycogenosis is a rare glycogen storage disorder resulting from a defect in the enzyme, glucose-6-phosphatase microsomal translocase. We report a case of Type Ib glycogenosis in an 18 month-old male child who presented with a history of hypoglycemic seizures and recurrent infections and had a massive hepatomegaly, recurrent hypoglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypertriglyceridemia, neutropenia and fasting lactacidemia which decreased sharply on glucose administration.
IgG viral antibodies for herpes simplex virus -1, varicella zoster virus, cytomegalovirus, measles and mumps were studied in 76 subjects with obsessive compulsive disorder and compared with a control population. There was a significantly higher titre for some of the antibodies, most specifically for herpes simplex virus type 1 and mumps. This suggests a possible role for these viral infections in the pathogenesis of obsessive compulsive disorder.
Earlier studies have demonstrated hair cell regeneration in the absence of cell proliferation, and suggested that supporting cells could phenotypically convert into hair cells following hair cell loss. Because calcium-binding proteins are involved in gene up-regulation, cell growth, and cell differentiation, we wished to determine if these proteins were up-regulated in scar formations and regenerating hair cells following gentamicin treatment. Calbindin and parvalbumin immunolabeling was examined in control or gentamicin-treated (GT) bullfrog saccular and utricular explants cultured for 3 days in amphibian culture medium or amphibian culture medium supplemented with aphidicolin, a blocker of nuclear DNA replication in eukaryotic cells. In control cultures, calbindin and parvalbumin immunolabeled the hair bundles and, less intensely, the cell bodies of mature hair cells. In GT or mitotically-blocked GT (MBGT) cultures, calbindin and parvalbumin immunolabeling was also seen in the hair bundles, cuticular plates, and cell bodies of hair cells with immature hair bundles. Thus, these antigens were useful markers for both normal and regenerating hair cells. Supporting cell immunolabeling was not seen in control cultures nor in the majority of supporting cells in GT cultures. In MBGT cultures, calbindin and parvalbumin immunolabeling was up-regulated in the cytosol of single supporting cells participating in scar formations and in supporting cells with hair cell-like characteristics. These data provide further evidence that non-mitotic hair cell regeneration in cultures can be accomplished by the conversion of supporting cells into hair cells.
Investiture of new microvessels within an injured peripheral nerve trunk may determine the success that the local environment has in promoting axonal sprouting and regeneration. We therefore examined microvessel investment of 24 h-14 d proximal nerve stump preparations in rat sciatic nerves. The stumps, later destined to form neuromas, were created by sciatic nerve transection with resection of distal branches to prevent distal reinnervation. Microvessels were studied in the proximal stump in semithin whole mount sections of nerve and by analysis of India ink perfused microvessel profiles. Quantitative image analysis was made of the luminal profiles of vessels perfused with India ink from unfixed sections of the stumps, contralateral uninjured nerves and sham-exposed but uninjured nerves. Evidence of angiogenesis was observed in stumps 7 d after transection, indicated by a rise in the total numbers of perfused microvessels and in the numbers of 2-6 microns diameter perfused microvessels. There was a shift in the histogram of the percentage of perfused microvessels towards the 2-4 microns range and a reduction in the mean microvessel luminal area in the stumps. By 14 d, new microvessels were larger, indicated by an increase in total luminal area. New microvessels were prominent in the epineurial connective tissue or between layers of perineurial cells of former fascicles. Microvessels probably share a battery of trophic signals with other proliferating cellular elements in the milieu of the injured peripheral nerve trunk.
Agents which block T cell K(+) currents can prohibit both proliferative and effector cell functions in T cells activated by mitogens or phorbol esters. This study examined the effects of some of these blocking agents on the immune responsiveness of guinea pig myelin basic protein (GPMBP)-reactive Lewis rat T lymphocytes, which are capable of mediating the adoptive transfer of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), an accepted animal model for multiple sclerosis. Both the proliferative functions (DNA synthesis and cell blastogenesis) and the EAE transfer activities of GPMBP-reactive lymphocytes were examined following GPMBP-induced activation in the presence of agents shown to block the outwardly rectifying K(+) current in these cells. At concentrations which completely inhibited DNA synthesis, as measured by [(3)H]thymidine incorporation, and cell blastogenesis, tetraethylammonium (TEA), 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) and methoxyverapamil (D60) completely blocked the subsequent adoptive transfer of EAE into naive syngeneic Lewis rats. The concentrations at which these blockers produced a 50% reduction in DNA synthesis were estimated to be 16, 1.6 and 32 &amp;mgr;M for TEA, 4-AP and D-600, respectively, which were roughly equivalent to the EC(50) to block the K(+) current. Apamine, a potent Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel blocker, at a concentration several orders of magnitude higher than is necessary to block Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels, reduced the maximal K(+) conductance in GPMBP-reactive T cell K(+) channels by about 20%, but did not alter either [H(3)H]thymidine incorporation or the adoptive transfer of EAE. These results indicate that delayed rectifier K(+) channel blockers may prevent the activation of GPMBP-reactive T cells, thus prohibiting encephalitogenic effector cell functions. Copyright 1997 S. Karger AG, Basel
Spinal nerve roots often sustain compression injuries. We used a Wistar rat model of the cauda equina syndrome to investigate such injuries. Rapid transient compression of the cauda equina was produced using a balloon catheter. The results were assessed by daily neurological examination and somatosensory evoked potential (SEP) recording before surgery and ten weeks after decompression. Compression of the spinal nerves induced changes in the SEP which persisted for up to ten weeks after decompression, but it had no effect on the final neurological outcome. Our study shows the importance of early surgical decompression for cauda equina syndrome.
Potential adverse outcomes (falls, impaired cognition, impaired self-care) of psychotropic (benzodiazepines, antidepressants, antipsychotics) and narcotic medication use were examined in a large sample of Canadians 65 years of age and older. We examined rates of reported falls, Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST) scores, and mean number of self-care impairments for those consuming psychotropic and/or narcotic drugs as compared to non-users. Use of psychotropic drugs and/or narcotics was associated with an increased prevalence of falls, lower DSST scores, and/or number of self-care difficulties. For example, in subjects who were cognitively normal, the frequency of falls was 60% greater in benzodiazepine users and 120% greater in users of antidepressants as compared to non-users. Adverse outcomes increased with the number of classes of psychotropic or narcotic medications used. These effects were most pronounced in cognitively normal subjects where the prevalence of falls increased from 13.9% in those consuming none of the medication classes to 42.6% for users of two or more classes. In subjects with mild dementia the use of these medications was not associated with any significant differences in the outcomes measured. Regression models showed that benzodiazepine, antidepressant, and narcotic use remained significant explanatory variables for potential adverse outcomes even after simultaneously considering the effects of several other variables. Although further work is necessary, our results suggest that individuals with better cognitive function may be at particular risk for adverse effects with use of these medications.
Developmental anomalies of the thyroid gland may result in ectopic glandular tissue. We report a unique case of ectopic thyroid tissue within the pituitary fossa and sphenoid sinus, associated with a lingual thyroid gland. The aetiology of this ectopic tissue is postulated to be ascent of primitive thyroid endoderm at the time of formation of Rathke's pouch.
The search for agents that could protect neurons from ischaemia-induced death has largely been based upon knowledge of the pathophysiological events that cause neuronal damage. Thus, the main classes of drugs that have been tested in animal experiments include ion channel blockers, those targeting neurotransmitter receptors, calpain inhibitors, inhibitors of enzymes in the arachidonic acid cascade, antagonists of platelet-activating factor, antioxidants and antagonists of inflammatory cytokines. The therapeutic potential of neurotrophins, growth factors and gangliosides has also been explored. As this review indicates, nearly all of these drugs have demonstrable neuroprotective capabilities. Broad spectrum neuroprotective drugs appear to have more potential than specifically targeted drugs, a finding which is in keeping with the multifactorial nature of ischaemia-induced neuronal death.

Traditionally, working memory has been divided into two major domains: verbal and visuo-spatial. The verbal domain of working memory can be characterized either by its relationship to language or by its grounding in auditory processing. Because of this ambiguity, languages that are not auditory and vocal (i.e., signed languages) pose a challenge to this conception of working memory. We describe several experiments with deaf users of American Sign Language (ASL) that explore the extent to which the architecture of working memory is determined by the constraints of auditory and visual processing and the extent to which it is determined by the characteristics of language. Various working memory effects were investigated: phonological similarity, word length, and articulatory suppression. The pattern of evidence strongly supports the existence of a sign-based 'rehearsal loop' mechanism parallel to the speech-based rehearsal loop. However, we also discuss evidence pointing to differences between the speech loop and the sign loop from forward and backward digit span tasks with deaf and hearing subjects. Despite their similarities based on linguistic properties, the speech loop and the sign loop appear to diverge due to the differing processing demands of audition and vision. Overall, the results suggest that the architecture of working memory is shaped both by the properties of language structure and by the constraints imposed by sensorimotor modality.
An unusual case of a penetrating neck injury by a golf club with the weapon retained in situ is presented. The contemporary imaging technology that delineated the clinical and forensic aspects is demonstrated as another tool to assist in criminal investigation.
This article gives an overview of Alois Alzheimer's years as a medical student, his most influential teachers, and the origin of his interest in (neuro)histopathology. The neuron theory discussions of that time are reviewed briefly.
The authors review and summarize research on the adaptation of limb movement control to Coriolis forces generated by body movements during rotation. They conclude that limb movement control can adapt to rotation rates as high as 10 rpm and that adaptation is rapid regardless of the presence or absence of visual and tactile feedback.
The author examines the merits and problems associated with full-time rotation and intermittent G stimulation as weightlessness countermeasures during prolonged space flight.
Laminin-1 is a glycoprotein found in the basement membrane of many tissues. In the cerebellum of rodents, it has also been localized along Bergmann glial fibers, where it is thought to be involved in promoting granule cell migration by enhancing adhesion and neurite outgrowth along these fibers. Recent reports, however, indicate that laminin-1 is not present on Bergmann fibers, but instead is associated with blood vessels and meninges. Furthermore, attempts to block granule cell migration using antibodies against laminin-1 have yielded conflicting results. In this report, we provide further evidence that laminin-1 is associated exclusively with blood vessels and meninges in the cerebellum of postnatal rats. In addition, we show that adhesion and neurite outgrowth of granule cells was impeded on laminin-coated surfaces. In fact, cerebellar cells dramatically and consistently avoided laminin-1 regions of patterned surfaces. Cells did adhere to laminin regions if it was coadsorbed with polylysine or tested in serum-containing medium. Avoidance of laminin-1 regions in culture was not, however, blocked by pretreatment with laminin-1 antibodies. By comparison, mouse neuroblastoma cells adhered preferentially to laminin-1 regions in serum-free medium, a response which was blocked by laminin-1 antibodies. These results indicate that laminin-1 is not involved in granule cell migration along Bergmann glial fibers. Instead, they suggest that laminin-1 may function as a repulsive guidance cue preventing granule cells from following inappropriate pathways during development.
Only male zebra finches sing, and several brain regions implicated in song behavior exhibit marked sex differences in neuron number. In one region, the high vocal center (HVC), this dimorphism develops because the incorporation of new neurons is greater in males than in females during the first several weeks after hatching. Although estrogen (E2) exposure stimulates neuron addition in females, it is not known where (E2) acts, or to what extent sexual differentiation influences the production, specification, or survival of HVC neurons. In the present study we first reassessed sex and (E2)-induced differences in cell degeneration within the HVC using the TUNEL technique to identify cells undergoing DNA fragmentation indicative of apoptosis. HVC neuron number, as well as the density and number of TUNEL-labeled and pyknotic cells within the HVC were measured in normal 20- and 30-day-old males and females, and in 30-day-old females implanted with E2 on posthatch day 18. Although HVC neuron number was greater in males than in females, and was masculinized in E2 females, no group differences were evident in the absolute number of dying cells. These results indicate that sex differences in cell survival within the HVC do not entirely account for sexually dimorphic neuron addition to this region. Rather, sexual differentiation acts on some HVC neurons before they complete their migration and/or early differentiation. Although the migratory route of HVC neurons is not known, a large number of E2 receptor-containing cells (ER cells) reside just ventromedial to the HVC and adjacent to the proliferative ventricular zone. Next, we investigated whether these ER cells contribute to early-arising sex differences in HVC neuron addition. By combining [3H]thymidine autoradiography with immunocytochemistry for ERs, we first established that ER-expressing cells are not generated during posthatch sexually dimorphic HVC neuron addition, and thus are not young HVC neurons that transiently express ERs during their migration. Furthermore, in 25-day-old birds we found no sex difference in the density of pyknotic cells among this group of ER cells, suggesting that these cells do not promote the differential survival of HVC neuronal precursors migrating through this region. Rather, ER cells or other cell populations may establish sex differences in HVC neuron number by creating dimorphisms in cellular specification.
Whole-cell patch recording techniques were used to analyze spontaneous electrical activity in cerebellar Purkinje cells acutely isolated from postnatal rats. Spontaneous activity was present in 65% of the cells examined, and it included simple and complex firing patterns which persisted under conditions that eliminated residual or reformed synaptic contacts. Under voltage clamp, both spontaneous and quiescent cells displayed similar voltage-dependent conductances. Inward current was carried by Na+ through tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive channels and by Ca2+ through P-type and T-type Ca channels. P-type current was present in all cells examined. T-type current was found in &lt;50%, and it did not correlate with spontaneous activity. We found no evidence of a transient (A-type) potassium current or hyperpolarization-activated cationic current in either spontaneous or quiescent cells. Spontaneous activity did correlate with a lower activation threshold of the Na current, resulting in substantial overlap of the activation and inactivation curves. TTX reduced the holding current of spontaneous cells clamped between -50 and -30 mV, consistent with the presence of a Na &quot;window&quot; current. We were unable, however, to measure a persistent component of the Na current using voltage steps, a result which may reflect the complex gating properties of Na channels. An Na window current could provide the driving force underlying spontaneous activity, as well as plateau potentials, in Purkinje cells.
To explore target sites for endogenous D-serine that are different from the glycine site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type glutamate receptor, we have studied the binding of D-[3H]serine to the synaptosomal P2 fraction prepared from the rat brain and peripheral tissues in the presence of an excess concentration (100 microM) of the glycine site antagonist 5,7-dichlorokynurenate (DCK). Nonspecific binding was defined in the presence of 1 mM unlabeled D-serine. Association, dissociation, and saturation experiments indicated that D-[3H]serine bound rapidly and reversibly to a single population of recognition sites in the cerebellar P2 fraction in the presence of DCK, with a K(D) of 614 nM and a Bmax of 2.07 pmol/mg of protein. D-Serine, L-serine, and glycine produced a total inhibition of the specific DCK-insensitive D-[3H]serine binding to the cerebellum with similar Ki values. Strychnine and 7-chlorokynurenate failed to inhibit the binding at 10 microM. The profiles of displacement of the DCK-insensitive D-[3H]serine binding by various amino acids and glutamate and glycine receptor-related compounds differ from those of any other defined recognition sites. DCK-insensitive D-[3H]serine binding was at high levels in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum but very low in the kidney and liver. The present findings indicate that the DCK-insensitive D-[3H]serine binding site could be a novel candidate for a target for endogenous D-serine in mammalian brains.
We report the cloning and characterization of a cDNA encoding a cdc2-related protein kinase, named PFTAIRE, that is expressed primarily in the postnatal and adult nervous system. We have demonstrated by in situ hybridization and indirect immunofluorescence that several populations of terminally differentiated neurons and some neuroglia expressed PFTAIRE mRNA and protein. In neurons, PFTAIRE protein was localized in the nucleus and cytoplasm of cell bodies. The anatomical, cellular, and ontogenic patterns of PFTAIRE expression in the nervous system differed from those of p34cdc2 and cdk5, which are expressed in brain and several other mitotic tissues. Proteins of approximately 58-60 kDa coprecipitated specifically with PFTAIRE from cytosolic protein preparations of adult mouse brain and transfected cells. These proteins appeared to be the major endogenous substrates associated with this kinase activity. The temporal and spatial expression patterns of PFTAIRE in the postnatal and adult nervous system suggest that PFTAIRE kinase activity may be associated with the postmitotic and differentiated state of cells in the nervous system and that its function may be distinct from those of p34cdc2 and cdk5.
Lipid second messengers such as arachidonic acid and its metabolites and diacylglycerols (DAGs) are affected in brain injury. Therefore, changes in the pool size and the fatty acid composition of free fatty acids (FFAs) and DAGs were analyzed in different rat brain areas 4 and 35 days after traumatic injury. Cortical impact injury of low-grade severity was applied in the right frontal somatosensory cortex. Four days after injury, FFAs and DAGs were increased by three- and twofold, respectively, in the injured cortex and to a lesser extent in the contralateral cortex compared with sham-operated animals. Docosahexaenoic acid followed by stearic acid, and arachidonic acid, displayed the greatest changes in both FFAs and DAGs. By day 35, free stearic, oleic, and arachidonic acids remained elevated in the damaged cortex (1.5-fold each). DAGs showed the greatest change, reaching values 2.7-fold higher than sham in all frontal and occipital cortical areas, including brainstem. Oleoyl- and arachidonoyl-DAGs (four- and threefold increase, respectively) followed by docosahexaenoyl-DAGs (twofold) contributed to the DAG accumulation. These results reveal that traumatic brain injury triggers a sustained and time-dependent activation of phospholipase-mediated signaling pathways leading to membrane phospholipid degradation and targeting, early on, docosahexaenoyl phospholipid-enriched excitable membranes.
Neurofibrillary tangles, one of the major pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer-diseased brains, consist primarily of aggregated paired helical filaments (PHFs) of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. Tau from normal brain and especially from foetal brain is also phosphorylated on some of the sites phosphorylated in PHFs, mainly at serines or threonines followed by prolines. A number of protein kinases can phosphorylate tau in vitro; those that require or accept prolines include GSK3 and members of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase family, ERK1, ERK2, and SAP kinase-beta/JNK. In this report, we show that another member of the MAP kinase family, the stress-activated kinase p38/RK, can phosphorylate tau in vitro. Western blots with phosphorylation-sensitive antibodies showed that p38, like ERK2 and SAP kinase-beta/JNK, phosphorylated tau at sites found phosphorylated physiologically (Thr181, Ser202, Thr205, and Ser396) and also at Ser422, which is phosphorylated in neurofibrillary tangles but not in normal adult or foetal brain. These findings support the possibility that cellular stress might contribute to tau hyperphosphorylation during the formation of PHFs, and hence, to the development of tau pathology.
We have previously demonstrated that exposing rats to cold (5 degrees C) for 3-4 weeks potentiates the increase in extracellular norepinephrine (NE) in the medial prefrontal cortex produced by acute tail shock. In the present study, we used microdialysis to determine the duration of cold exposure required to produce this sensitization and explored the mechanism of the phenomenon. Tail shock elicited a twofold greater increase in extracellular NE in the medial prefrontal cortex of rats exposed to cold for 2 weeks than in naive control rats or in rats exposed to cold for 1 week and tested either immediately or after a 2-week delay. Local infusion of 10 microM D-amphetamine or 30 mM K+ increased extracellular NE in the medial prefrontal cortex (approximately 350 and 190%, respectively) comparably in control rats and rats exposed to cold for 3 weeks. In contrast, intraventricular administration of 3.0 microg of corticotropin-releasing hormone increased extracellular NE in the medial prefrontal cortex by 65% in rats exposed to cold for 2 weeks, but only 35% in control rats. These results indicate that an enhanced responsiveness of noradrenergic neurons to acute tail shock (1) requires approximately 2 weeks of cold exposure to develop and (2) may be mediated by a change at the level of the noradrenergic cell bodies rather than the nerve terminals.
Activation of the calcium-dependent protease calpain has been proposed to be a necessary step in the formation of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus, and stimulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors leads to an increase in intracellular calcium concentration, calpain activation, proteolysis of cytoskeletal elements, and modification of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor properties. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of NMDA treatment of cultured hippocampal slices on the properties of AMPA receptors. Cultured hippocampal slices were treated with NMDA (100 microM) for 15 min and [3H]AMPA binding to membrane fractions was measured. NMDA-treated slices exhibited an increase in both &quot;high-affinity&quot; and &quot;low-affinity&quot; [3H]AMPA binding, with smaller changes in 6-cyano-7-nitro[3H]quinoxaline-2,3-dione binding. The increase in [3H]AMPA binding was significantly reduced by preincubation of cultures with calpain inhibitor I or calpeptin (100 microM). Furthermore, NMDA exposure decreased the number of GluR1 subunits of AMPA receptors detected by an antibody against the C-terminal domain of the subunit in western blots and resulted in the formation of a lower molecular weight species detected by an antibody against the N-terminal domain. Both effects were completely prevented by calpain inhibitors. These results indicate that NMDA receptor activation produces calpain activation and complex modifications of AMPA receptor properties, which could be involved in NMDA receptor-mediated changes in synaptic efficacy.
A tumour which on CT is clearly intrinsic, irregular, exhibits patchy enhancement with contrast, and invades periventricular tissues, especially the corpus callosum, is very likely to be a glioma and may not be biopsied. A case is presented with these radiological features in which the tumour proved to be a tuberculoma, with complete clinical and radiological resolution after antituberculous chemotherapy.
The completeness and accuracy of registration of primary intracranial tumours in the Scottish Cancer Registry was compared with a detailed incidence study performed over a two year period (1989-90). Of 228 patients with any primary intracranial tumour in the incidence study, 124 (54%) were identified as intracranial tumours in the cancer registry. The registry excluded benign tumours (although this was not consistent) and so the sensitivity of the registry varied with tumour type (84% for neuroepithelial tumours, 22% meningeal, 29% sellar, 0% cranial nerve). Of the 31 malignant tumours not found in the registry on our initial search, nine were found to have been included between 1989-90 but using different International Classification of Diseases-9th revision (ICD-9) codes or postcodes, and seven were found registered after 1990. Eleven per cent of cases (18/170) identified in the cancer registry were excluded from the incidence study: 11 had evidence of an intracranial tumour before 1989 whereas four definitely did not have an intracranial tumour. The cancer registry therefore significantly underestimated the incidence of all primary intracranial tumours, and of malignant intracranial tumours. Incidence studies must use additional methods to identify all primary tumours. Cancer registries should consider registering all primary intracranial tumours and may improve case ascertainment by screening neuroradiology data.


The nucleus gracilis (NG) receives an abundance of visceral input from various abdominal organs and is proposed to play an important role in visceral pain processing. The purpose of this study was to investigate the necessity of the NG for colorectal input into the ventral posterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus. Single-cell recordings were made from nine VPL cells isolated in nine different male Sprague Dawley rats anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium. Responses of the VPL cells to colorectal distension (CRD) and to cutaneous stimuli were obtained before and after lesioning of the NG. Electrolytic (n = 5) and chemical (n = 4) lesions of the NG were made in different preparations. The chemical lesions were made by injecting a solution of kainic acid into the NG. Kainic acid presumably kills neuronal cell bodies and spares axons of passage. The results indicate that a lesion of the NG, regardless of its type, reduces dramatically the responses of VPL neurons to innocuous cutaneous stimuli, and, to a lesser extent, the responses to CRD. Attenuation of VPL neuronal responses to CRD as well as to innocuous cutaneous stimuli by the NG lesions emphasizes the role of the dorsal column in visceral nociception and suggests that the NG is an integration center for visceral and cutaneous information flowing into the VPL nucleus.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to quantify the effects of changes in spatial and featural attention on brain activity in the middle temporal visual area and associated motion processing regions (hMT+) of normal human subjects. When subjects performed a discrimination task that directed their spatial attention to a peripherally presented annulus and their featural attention to the speed of points in the annulus, activity in hMT+ was maximal. If subjects were instead asked to discriminate the color of points in the annulus, the magnitude and volume of activation in hMT+ fell to 64 and 35%, respectively, of the previously observed maximum response. In another experiment, subjects were asked to direct their spatial attention away from the annulus toward the fixation point to detect a subtle change in luminance. The response magnitude and volume dropped to 40 and 9% of maximum. These experiments demonstrate that both spatial and featural attention modulate hMT+ and that their effects can work in concert to modulate cortical activity. The high degree of modulation by attention suggests that an understanding of the stimulus-driven properties of visual cortex needs to be complemented with an investigation of the effects of task-related factors on visual processing.
A detailed biophysical model of hippocampal region CA3 was constructed to study how GABAergic modulation influences place field development and the learning and recall of sequence information. Simulations included 1,000 multicompartmental pyramidal cells, each consisting of seven intrinsic and four synaptic currents, and 200 multicompartmental interneurons, consisting of two intrinsic and four synaptic currents. Excitatory rhythmic septal input to the apical dendrites of pyramidal cells and both excitatory and inhibitory input to interneurons at theta frequencies provided a cellular basis for the development of theta and gamma frequency oscillations in population activity. The fundamental frequency of theta oscillations was dictated by the driving rhythm from the septum. Gamma oscillation frequency, however, was determined by both the decay time of the gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABA(A))-receptor-mediated synaptic current and the overall level of excitability in interneurons due to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionic acid and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor-gated channel activation. During theta population activity, total GABA(B)-receptor-mediated conductance levels were found to gradually rise and fall in rhythmic fashion with the predominant population frequency (theta rhythm). This resulted in periodic GABA(B)-receptor-mediated suppression of excitatory synaptic transmission at recurrent collaterals (intrinsic fibers) of pyramidal cells and suppression of inhibitory synaptic transmission to both pyramidal cells and interneurons. To test the ability of the model to learn and recall temporal sequence information, a completion task was employed. During learning, the network was presented a sequence of nonorthogonal spatial patterns. Each input pattern represented a spatial &quot;location&quot; of a simulated rat running a specific navigational path. Hebbian-type learning was expressed as an increase in postsynaptic NMDA-receptor-mediated conductances. Because of several factors including the sparse, asymmetric excitatory synaptic connections among pyramidal cells in the model and a sufficient degree of random &quot;background&quot; firing unrelated to the input patterns, repeated simulated runs resulted in the gradual emergence of place fields where a given cell began to respond to a contiguous segment of locations on the path. During recall, the simulated rat was placed at a random location on the previously learned path and tested to see whether the sequence of locations could be completed on the basis of this initial position. Periodic GABA(B)-receptor-mediated suppression of excitatory and inhibitory transmission at intrinsic but not afferent fibers resulted in sensory information about location being dominant during early portions of each theta cycle when GABA(B)-receptor-related effects were highest. This suppression declined with levels of GABA(B) receptor activation toward the end of a theta cycle, resulting in an increase in synaptic transmission at intrinsic fibers and the subsequent recall of a segment of the entire location sequence. This scenario typically continued across theta cycles until the full sequence was recalled. When the GABA(B)-receptor-mediated suppression of excitatory and inhibitory transmission at intrinsic fibers was not included in the model, place field development was curtailed and the network consequently exhibited poor learning and recall performance. This was, in part, due to increased competition of information from intrinsic and afferent fibers during early portions of each theta cycle. Because afferent sensory information did not dominate early in each cycle, the current location of the rat was obscured by ongoing activity from intrinsic sources. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
Fiber volleys (FVs) from the stratum lucidum of rat hippocampal area CA3 were recorded extracellularly from in vitro slices in the presence of 10 mM kynurenic acid. In agreement with previous work, bulk stimulation of the dentate gyrus (DG) near the hilar border leads to an asynchronous FV. Transection of the stratum lucidum between the DG stimulation site and the CA3 recording site reduced or eliminated the early components of the asynchronous FV, indicating that they are of mossy fiber (MF) origin. In contrast, moving the stimulating electrode away from the hilus toward the hippocampal fissure reduced or eliminated the late components of the FV. Subsequently, we found that bulk stimulation on the DG/hilar border induces an antidromic population spike in CA3 pyramidal cells. Finally, the MFs and associational collaterals have different conduction velocities (0.51 and 0.37 m/s, respectively; temperature = 33 degrees C). From these data, we conclude that the late components of the asynchronous FV are due to antidromic activation of CA3 collaterals that have been shown to be present in the DG and hilus. A corollary of these findings is that bulk stimulation on the DG/hilar border can lead to at least two different monosynaptic inputs to CA3 pyramidal cells: the MFs and the antidromically activated associational collaterals. We suggest that when MF synaptic responses are being evoked with the use of bulk stimulation, stimulating electrodes should be placed in the outer molecular layer of the DG to prevent the activation of hilar-projecting associational collaterals. This procedure should be added to the previously proposed criteria for preventing polysynaptic contamination of the intracellularly recorded evoked MF synaptic response.
The effects of the glucocorticoid receptor agonist RU-28362 on homosynaptic long-term depression (LTD) were examined in hippocampal slices obtained from adrenal-intact adult male rats. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were evoked by stimulation of the Schaffer collateral/commissural pathway and recorded in stratum radiatum of area CA1. Low-frequency stimulation (LFS) was delivered at LTD threshold (2 bouts of 600 pulses, 1 Hz, at baseline stimulation intensity). LFS of the Schaffer collaterals did not produce significant homosynaptic LTD in control slices. However, identical conditioning in the presence of the glucocorticoid receptor agonist RU-28362 (10 microM) produced a robust LTD, which was blocked by the selective glucocorticoid antagonist RU-38486. The LTD induced by glucocorticoid receptor activation was dependent on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activity, because the specific NMDA receptor antagonist D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5) blocked the facilitation. However, the facilitation of LTD was not due to a potentiation of the isolated NMDA receptor potential by RU-28362. The facilitation of LTD by RU-28362 was also blocked by coincubation of the L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel (VDCC) antagonist nimodipine. Selective activation of the L-type VDCCs by the agonist Bay K 8644 also facilitated LTD induction. Both nimodipine and D-AP5 were effective in blocking the facilitation of LTD by Bay K 8644. These results indicate that L-type VDCCs can contribute to NMDA-receptor-dependent LTD induction.
Patients who experience episodes with a transient disturbance in perception, memory, mood, and level of anxiety are frequently encountered by neurologists, psychiatrists, and psychologists. The possibilities for differential diagnosis of these episodes include partial complex epilepsy, psychogenic seizures, panic disorder, dissociative states, migraine, and transient global amnesia, among others. The clinical history may be vague and confusing, making it difficult to determine definitively the etiology of the events. This article describes a spectrum of paroxysmal disorders involving limbic structures, highlighting the clinical features and assessment techniques that aid in diagnosis and treatment. Clinical-anatomic correlations are provided whenever possible.
Learning to fear dangerous situations requires the participation of neurons of the amygdala. Here it is shown that amygdalar neurons are also involved in learning to avoid dangerous situations. Amygdalar lesions severely impaired the acquisition of acoustically cued, discriminative instrumental avoidance behavior of rabbits. In addition, the development of anterior cingulate cortical and medial dorsal thalamic training-induced neuronal plasticity in the early stages of behavioral acquisition was blocked in rabbits with lesions. The development of training-induced neuronal plasticity in the medial dorsal and anterior thalamic nuclei in late stages of behavioral acquisition was also blocked in rabbits with lesions. These results indicate that the integrity of the amygdala is essential for the establishment of both early and late training-induced cingulothalamic neuronal plasticity. It is hypothesized that amygdalar training-induced neuronal plasticity in the initial trials of conditioning represents a substrate of learned fear, essential for the early and late cingulothalamic plasticity that is involved in mediation of acquisition of the instrumental avoidance response.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a powerful inducer of food intake with a key site of action in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus. An effective method for inhibiting the effects of NPY is pretreatment with the opioid antagonists naloxone or naltrexone. In the present study, we used immunohistochemistry for cFos as a marker of neuronal activity to map the effects of PVN-injected NPY and blockade of these effects by peripheral injection of naloxone. Injection of NPY into the PVN resulted in an increase in food intake that was blocked by peripheral administration of naloxone. PVN NPY also resulted in increased cFos immunoreactivity (cFos-IR) in the PVN independent of food intake, and although peripheral naloxone inhibited NPY-induced feeding, it did not alter cFos-IR in the PVN. cFos-IR in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CNA) increased in response to both NPY and naloxone. Furthermore, the response to NPY and naloxone was additive, suggesting that peripheral naloxone and PVN NPY activate different neuronal populations in the CNA. Three other brain regions, the nucleus of the solitary tract, the ventrolateral medulla, and the supraoptic nucleus, all showed increases in cFos-IR in this study, but these changes came only as a result of increased food intake after PVN-injected NPY. The current data suggest that the CNA is a site important for the integration of the NPY and opioid systems.
Studies of the spatial memory capacities of aged animals usually focus on performance during the learning of new environments. By contrast, efforts to characterize age-related alterations in spatial firing information processing by hippocampal neurons typically use an environment that is highly familiar to the animals. In the present study we compared the firing properties of hippocampal neurons in young adult and aged rats as they acquired spatial information about new environmental cues. Hippocampal complex spike cells were recorded while rats performed a radial arm maze task in a familiar environment and then recorded again after many of the spatial cues were changed. After the change in the environment, in aged rats 35-42% of place fields retained their original shape and location with respect to the maze center, although they usually rotated to another arm. By contrast, all place fields in young animals either disappeared or appeared in a new location. Some of the new place fields appeared in the new environment during the first 5 min of exploration, whereas others needed more than 30 min to develop fully. In the familiar environment spatial selectivity of place cells was similar in young and aged rats. By contrast, when rats were placed into a new environment, spatial selectivity decreased considerably in aged memory-impaired rats compared with that of young rats and aged rats with intact memory performance.
Advanced age in rats is associated with a decline in spatial memory capacities dependent on hippocampal processing. As yet, however, little is known about the nature of age-related alterations in the information encoded by the hippocampus. Young rats and aged rats identified as intact or impaired in spatial learning capacity were trained on a radial arm maze task, and then multiple parameters of the environmental cues were manipulated to characterize the changes in firing patterns of hippocampal neurons corresponding to the presence of particular cues or the spatial relationships among them. The scope of information encoded by the hippocampus was reduced in memory-impaired aged subjects, even though the number of neurons responsive to salient environmental cues was not different from that in young rats. Furthermore, after repeated manipulations of the cues, memory-intact aged rats, like young rats, altered their spatial representations, whereas memory-impaired aged rats showed reduced plasticity of their representation throughout testing. Thus changes in hippocampal memory representation associated with aging and memory loss can be characterized as a rigid encoding of only part of the available information.
Mutations in the presenilin-1 (PS1) gene is a cause of early- onset familial Alzheimer's disease (AD). Endogenous PS1 is associated with the endoplasmic reticulum in the cell body of undifferentiated SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. At early stages of neuronal differentiation in rat hippocampal culture, PS1 appears in all neuritic processes and in growth cones. In mature differentiated neurons, PS1 is concentrated in the somatodendritic compartment but is also present at lower levels in axons. A similar localization of PS1 is observed in vivo in neurons of the adult human cerebral cortex. In sporadic AD, PS1 appears in the dystrophic neurites of mature amyloid plaques and co-localizes with a subset of intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). About 30% of hippocampal NFTs are labeled with a highly specific antibody to the PS1 C-terminal loop domain but not with an antibody to the PS1 N terminus. This observation is consistent with a potential association of the PS1 C-terminal fragment with NFTs, because PS1 is constitutively cleaved to N- and C-terminal fragments in neurons. These results suggest that PS1 is highly expressed and broadly distributed during early stages of neuronal differentiation, consistent with a role for PS1 in neuronal differentiation. Furthermore, the co-localization of PS1 with NFTs and plaque dystrophic neurites implicates a role for PS1 in the diverse pathological manifestations of AD.
The distribution of voltage-sensitive sodium channels on axons in the dorsal and ventral spinal roots of the dystrophic mouse 129/ReJ-Lama2dy was determined via immunocytochemistry. In these nerves there are regions in which Schwann cells fail to proliferate and myelinate axons in a normal manner, leaving bundles of closely packed large-diameter amyelinated axons. We have identified discrete and focal concentrations of sodium channel immunoreactivity on these axons by both confocal immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy, using a peptide-derived polyclonal antibody. In addition, simultaneous labeling with an antibody recognizing neuronal-specific ankyrinG revealed a distinct colocalization with the sodium channels on both normal and amyelinated axons. The presence of patches of sodium channels along with their anchoring protein on amyelinated axons in the absence of intervening Schwann cells demonstrates that axons can form and maintain independently these initial aggregations. This confirms that direct contact between Schwann cell and axon is not required for the formation of sodium channel patches of nodal dimensions and density. Furthermore, this strongly suggests that local transfer of sodium channels from Schwann cells to axons is not required for this process.
We report the isolation and characterization of a cDNA encoding a novel member of the GABA receptor gene family, epsilon. This polypeptide is 506 amino acids in length and exhibits its greatest amino acid sequence identity with the GABAA receptor gamma3 subunit (47%), although this degree of homology is not sufficient for it to be classified as a fourth gamma subunit. The epsilon subunit coassembles with GABAA receptor alpha and beta subunits in Xenopus laevis oocytes and transfected mammalian cells to form functional GABA-gated channels. alpha1beta1epsilon GABAA receptors, like alpha1beta1gamma2s receptors, are modulated by pentobarbital and the steroid 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one but, unlike alpha1beta1gamma2s receptors, are insensitive to flunitrazepam. Additionally, alpha1beta1epsilon receptors exhibit rapid desensitization kinetics, as compared with alpha1beta1 or alpha1beta1gamma2s. Northern analysis demonstrates widespread expression of a large epsilon subunit transcript in a variety of non-neuronal tissues and expression of a smaller transcript in brain and spinal cord. Sequence analysis demonstrated that the large transcript contained an unspliced intron, whereas the small transcript represents the mature mRNA, suggesting regulation of expression of the epsilon subunit via neuronally restricted RNA splicing. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry reveal a pattern of expression in the brain restricted primarily to the hypothalamus, suggesting a role in neuroendocrine regulation, and also to subfields of the hippocampus, suggesting a role in the modulation of long term potentiation and memory.
Resistive force and electromyograms from triceps surae muscles were measured during dorsiflexion of both ankles of awake cats before and after interruption of one dorsolateral funiculus (DLF). DLF lesions produced ipsilateral increases in dynamic and static reflex force that persisted over 66 weeks. The increase in dynamic reflex force was velocity sensitive, as demonstrated by a greater effect for 60 degrees /sec than for 10 degrees /sec dorsiflexion. Also, the lesions increased dynamic force to a greater extent than static force (increased dynamic index). Background force (recorded immediately before each reflex response) was elevated ipsilaterally. However, increases in reflex force were observed when preoperative and postoperative background forces were matched within 10% and were associated with equivalent resting levels of electromyographic (EMG) activity. Resistive reflex force was significantly correlated with EMG responses to dorsiflexion and was not determined by nonreflexive mechanical stiffness of the muscles. Contralateral background and reflex force and associated EMG activity were decreased slightly, comparing preoperative and postoperative records. Clinical testing revealed ipsilateral postoperative increases in extensor tone, increased resistance to hindlimb flexion, hypermetria during positive support responses, and appearance of the Babinski reflex. However, the most reliable tests of DLF lesion effects were the quantitative measures of dynamic and static reflex amplitude. The enhancement of stretch reflexes is suggestive of spasticity. However, hyperactive stretch reflexes, hypertonicity, and the Babinski reflex were observed soon after interruption of the ipsilateral DLF, in contrast to a gradual development of positive signs that is characteristic of a more broadly defined spastic syndrome from large spinal lesions. Also, other signs that often are included in the spastic syndrome, including clonus, increased flexor reflex activity, and flexor spasms, did not result from DLF lesions. Thus, unilateral DLF lesions provide a model of spasticity but produce only several components of a more inclusive spastic syndrome.
Motor pattern selection from a multifunctional neural network often results from direct synaptic and modulatory actions of different projection neurons onto neural network components. Less well documented is the presence and function of interactions among distinct projection neurons innervating the same network. In the stomatogastric nervous system of the crab Cancer borealis, several distinct projection neurons that influence the pyloric and gastric mill rhythms have been studied. These rhythms are generated by overlapping subsets of identified neurons in the stomatogastric ganglion (STG). One of these identified projection neurons is the modulatory proctolin neuron (MPN). We showed previously that MPN stimulation excites the pyloric rhythm by its excitatory actions on STG neurons. In contrast to its excitatory actions on the pyloric rhythm, we have now found that MPN inhibits the gastric mill rhythm. This inhibition does not occur within the STG, but instead results from MPN-mediated inhibition of two previously identified projection neurons within the commissural ganglia. These projection neurons innervate the STG and, via their actions on STG neurons, they elicit the gastric mill rhythm as well as modify the pyloric rhythm in a manner distinct from MPN. By inhibiting these projection neurons, MPN removes excitatory drive to gastric mill neurons and elicits an MPN-specific pyloric rhythm. Motor pattern selection by MPN therefore results from both a direct modulation of STG network activity and an inhibition of competing pathways.
Whole cell patch-clamp recordings of K+ currents from oligodendrocyte precursors in 10-day-old rats (P10) and, following myelination, in mature oligodendrocytes from 20-day-old rats (P20) were correlated with extracellular space (ECS) diffusion parameters measured by the local diffusion of iontophoretically injected tetramethylammonium ions (TMA+). The aim of this study was to find an explanation for the changes in glial currents that occur with myelination. Oligodendrocyte precursors (P10) in slices from corpus callosum were characterized by the presence of A-type K+ currents, delayed and inward rectifier currents, and lack of tail currents after the offset of a voltage jump. Mature oligodendrocytes in corpus callosum slices from P20 rats were characterized by passive, decaying currents and large tail currents after the offset of a voltage jump. Measurements of the reversal potential for the tail currents indicate that they result from increases in [K+]e by an average of 32 mM during a 20 msec 100 mV voltage step. Concomitant with the change in oligodendrocyte electrophysiological behavior after myelination there is a decrease in the ECS of the corpus callosum. ECS volume decreases from 36% (P9-10) to 25% (P20-21) of total tissue volume. ECS tortuosity lambda = (D/ADC)0.5, where D is the free diffusion coefficient and ADC is the apparent diffusion coefficient of TMA+ in the brain, increases as measured perpendicular to the axons from 1.53 +/- 0.02 (n = 6, mean +/- SEM) to 1.70 +/- 0.02 (n = 6). TMA+ non-specific uptake (k') was significantly larger at P20 (5.2 +/- 0.6 x 10(-3) s(-1), n = 6) than at P10 (3.5 +/- 0.4 x 10(-3) s(-1), n = 6). It can be concluded that membrane potential changes in mature oligodendrocytes are accompanied by rapid changes in the K+ gradient resulting from K+ fluxes across the glial membrane. As a result of the reduced extracellular volume and increased tortuosity, the membrane fluxes produce larger changes in [K+]e in the more mature myelinated corpus callosum than before myelination. These conclusions also account for differences between membrane currents in cells in slices compared to those in tissue culture where the ECS is essentially infinite. The size and geometry of the ECS influence the membrane current patterns of glial cells and may have consequences for the role of glial cells in spatial buffering.
The neural cell adhesion molecule L1 plays a key role in nervous system development including neuronal migration, neurite growth, and axonal fasciculation. L1 is expressed on most developing axons, and homophilic binding of L1 molecules on adjacent axons is likely to play a key role in axon extension. It is now well documented that a number of second-messenger systems are involved in L1-stimulated neurite growth in vitro. However, it is unclear how L1 homophilic or heterophilic binding trigger signals that regulate the mechanical forces that produce axon extension. In this report, we will review recent advances in understanding L1-associated signals, L1 interactions with the cytoskeleton, and the molecular mechanisms underlying growth cone motility.
The outcome of radiofrequency-guided posteroventral medial pallidotomy was investigated in 29 patients with recalcitrant Parkinson's disease. Extracellular recordings were obtained in the target region to differentiate the internal from the external globus pallidus, and distinct waveforms were recorded in each region. Stimulation of the target site further verified the lesion location. Of the 29 patients treated during the course of 1 year, none showed any adverse side effects (such as hemianopsia or hemiparesis) from the procedure. Significant and immediate improvement in motor involvement (dyskinesia, rigidity, dystonia, freezing, and tremor) was observed as measured by the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale and the Hoehn and Yahr scale. Patients experienced improvements in their condition as measured on a self-rating scale, and their ability to perform the activities of daily living was also significantly improved. Although the onset and duration of the effect of a single dose of levodopa did not change, the number of hours in an &quot;off&quot; state of dyskinesia per day was significantly decreased. These results provide further evidence, in a large group of patients, that posteroventral medial pallidotomy results in significant control of the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease with a minimum of undesirable side effects.
Bath application of methylmercury (MeHg) causes an early stimulation before block of synaptic transmission in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices. Effects of MeHg and Hg++ on inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) or currents (IPSCs) and excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) or currents (EPSCs) were compared to test whether or not early block by MeHg of GABA(A)-mediated inhibitory synaptic transmission and MeHg-induced alterations of the resting membrane potentials of CA1 neurons contribute to this initial enhancement of excitability. MeHg affected IPSPs and IPSCs similarly, and more rapidly than EPSPs and EPSCs. In contrast, although Hg++ blocked IPSPs more rapidly than EPSPs, times to block of IPSCs and EPSCs by Hg++ were virtually identical when CA1 neurons were voltage-clamped at their resting membrane potential levels. MeHg increased EPSC amplitudes before their subsequent decrease even when CA1 neuronal membranes were voltage-clamped at their resting potentials. This suggests that effects of MeHg on CA1 cell membrane potentials are not a major factor for MeHg-induced early stimulation of hippocampal synaptic transmission. Effects of MeHg and Hg++ on the reversal potentials for IPSCs also differed. Both metals blocked all outward and inward currents generated at different holding potentials. However, MeHg shifted the current-voltage (I/V) relationship to more positive potentials, although Hg++ shifted the I/V curve to more negative potentials. Hg++ was a less potent blocker of on IPSCs and EPSPs or EPSCs than was MeHg. To determine if the early increase in amplitude of population spikes or EPSPs is due to an action of MeHg at GABA(A) receptors, extracellular recordings of population spikes and intracellular recordings of EPSPs were compared with or without pretreatment of hippocampal slices with bicuculline. After preincubation of slices with 10 microM bicuculline for 30 to 60 min, MeHg only decreased the amplitudes of population spikes and EPSPs to block; no early increase of synaptic transmission occurred. Pretreatment of slices with strychnine, did not prevent MeHg-induced early increase in population spikes. MeHg also blocked responses evoked by bath application of muscimol, a GABA(A) agonist. Thus, block by MeHg of GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory synaptic transmission may result in disinhibition of excitatory hippocampal synaptic transmission, and appears to be primarily responsible for the initial excitatory effect of MeHg on hippocampal synaptic transmission.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-like immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers and VIP binding sites exist in the brainstem nuclei that regulate autonomic function. Therefore, we investigated the effects of microinjection of VIP in the dorsal vagal complex (DVC), nucleus raphe obscurus (nROb) and nucleus ambiguus of alpha-chloralose-anesthetized rats while recording intragastric pressure, pyloric and greater curvature smooth muscle contractile activity, blood pressure and heart rate. Microinjection of VIP into the DVC increased intragastric pressure (1-100 pmol) and pyloric smooth muscle contractile activity (100 pmol), as well as arterial blood pressure (1-100 pmol). Whereas VIP microinjected into the nROb (10-100 pmol) decreased intragastric pressure and inhibited pyloric smooth muscle contractile activity. Mean arterial blood pressure increased in response to VIP in the nROb at the highest dose of 100 pmol only. No changes in gastric motor and cardiovascular function were noted after microinjection of VIP (1-100 pmol) into the region of the nucleus ambiguus. The gastric motor effects of VIP in the DVC (10 pmol) and nROb (50 pmol) were completely abolished by bilateral cervical vagotomy. These data show that VIP may produce opposite vagally mediated gastric motor responses upon its microinjection into the DVC and nROb.
1. Lesions of the cerebellar cortex can abolish classically conditioned eyeblink responses, but some recovery with retraining has been observed. It has been suggested that the recovered responses are generated by the intact contralateral cerebellar hemisphere. In order to investigate this suggestion, bilaterally acquired conditioned responses were studied after the unilateral blockade of cerebellar output. 2. Decerebrate ferrets were trained with ipsilateral electrical forelimb stimulation (300 ms, 50 Hz, 1 mA) as the conditioned stimulus and bilaterally applied peri-orbital stimulation (40 ms, 50 Hz, 3 mA) as the unconditioned stimulus. The conditioned and unconditioned eyeblink responses were monitored by EMG recordings from the orbicularis oculi muscle. The output from one cerebellar hemisphere was blocked either by injecting small amounts of lignocaine (lidocaine; 0.5-1.0 microliter) into the brachium conjunctivum, or by a restricted mechanical lesion of the brainstem rostral to the cerebellum. 3. As described by previous investigators, the unilateral blockade of cerebellar output abolished ipsilateral conditioned responses. 4. More importantly, such blockade also abolished or strongly depressed contralateral conditioned responses. When mechanical lesions of the brachium conjunctivum were made, contralateral responses, in contrast to ipsilateral responses, recovered within 1-2.5 h. 5. When the unconditioned stimulus was removed on one side, causing extinction of conditioned responses on this side, conditioned responses were temporarily depressed on the trained side as well. 6. Unilateral interruption of cerebellar output had no clear effect on contralateral unconditioned reflex responses. 7. The results demonstrate that one cerebellar hemisphere in ferrets exerts a marked control of contralateral conditioned eyeblink responses, probably via premotor neurones involved specifically in conditioned, and not in unconditioned, responses.
1. The patterns of discharge of spontaneous GABAA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs), originating from the nucleus reticularis thalami (NRT), and their modulation by GABAB autoreceptors, were studied in rat thalamocortical (TC) neurones using whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings in brain slices. 2. sIPSCs were recorded in all ventro-basal (VB) and dorsal lateral geniculate (LGN) neurones. In VB neurones, in the presence of tetraethylammonium (TEA, 5 mM), these sIPSCs can occur in bursts at frequencies of either 0.1 or 1-2 Hz. In the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX), these bursting activities are replaced by the continuous discharge of miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs), recorded in the absence of TEA, at a frequency of 4 Hz. The kinetic properties of mIPSCs were similar in VB and LGN TC neurones. 3. In VB TC neurones the GABAB receptor agonist (+/-)-baclofen, at a concentration of 0.05 microM, decreased the mIPSC frequency by 22% without affecting their amplitude distribution. Increasing the (+/-)-baclofen concentration to 1 and 10 microM caused similar reductions (41 and 47%, respectively) in the mIPSCs frequency: these values were significantly different from the one observed with 0.05 microM (+/-)-baclofen. In LGN TC neurones, where mIPSCs originate from both NRT and local interneurone terminals, 1 microM (+/-)-baclofen produced a 66% reduction in the mIPSC frequency. 4. The GABAB receptor antagonist CGP55845A (50 nM) not only blocked the baclofen-mediated decrease in mIPSC frequency, but also produced a 52% increase in the mIPSC frequency compared with control in three out of seven neurones. Application of CGP55845A (50-500 nM) alone produced a 77% increase in the mIPSC frequency in three out of nine VB neurones, and in the LGN, CGP55845A (100 nM) produced a 53% increase in four out of nine neurones. CGP55845A (100 nM) also reversibly increased the amplitude of evoked GABAA IPSCs by 74 and 57% in three out of three VB and three out of five LGN neurones, respectively. 5. Application of GABA (1.5-5 microM) decreased the mIPSC frequency in VB TC neurones by a similar extent (48%) as 1-10 microM (+/-)-baclofen. 6. In the presence of 100 microM Cd2+, (+/-)-baclofen still decreased the mIPSC frequency by about 40%, indicating that the effect of presynaptic GABAB receptor activation on spontaneous GABA release did not occur through a reduction of voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents. 7. Cd2+ (100 microM) decreased the amplitude of both mIPSCs and isoguvacine-induced current by 30 and 19%, respectively, indicating an effect of this divalent cation on postsynaptic GABAA receptors. 8. We conclude that GABAB autoreceptors are present on the GABAergic terminals within the thalamic sensory nuclei and that these receptors can be tonically activated by the ambient GABA.
This paper describes a ligand blotting procedure to visualize membrane estrogen receptors/binding proteins immobilized on nitrocellulose membranes. Using 17beta-estradiol covalently linked with [125I]bovine serum albumin (BSA) at the C-6 position (17beta-E-6-[125I]BSA) as a ligand, three major binding proteins with molecular masses of approximately 23, 28, and 32 kDa were identified from crude synaptosomal fractions (P2) of female rat brains. The binding of 17beta-E-6-[125I]BSA to these proteins is selective for 17beta-estradiol because BSA had no effect, and 17alpha-E-6-BSA was at least two orders of magnitude less potent than 17beta-E-6-BSA in displacing the binding. In addition, [125I]BSA and 17alpha-E-6-[125I]BSA at similar concentrations did not bind to these proteins. Competition and saturation assays indicate that the binding affinity of 17beta-E-6-[125I]BSA for these proteins was in the range of 1-10 nM. These proteins are not contaminants from cytosolic or serum estrogen binding proteins since no corresponding protein bands were found in cytosolic fractions. Three additional protein bands with molecular masses of approximately 18, 40, and 130kDa were also detected, although inconsistently. The 23 and 40 kDa proteins seem to be concentrated in mitochondrial fractions (mP2), whereas the 28 and 32 kDa proteins are enriched in microsomal fractions (P3). Application of digitonin-solubilized P2 fractions to 17beta-estradiol-coupled affinity columns resulted in significant purification of the 23 kDa protein as shown by ligand blotting. This protein was later identified as oligomycin-sensitivity conferring protein (OSCP), as reported previously. These data indicate that specific estrogen binding proteins different from classical nuclear estrogen receptor (66 kDa) are present in the cellular membranes of the female rat brain. The ligand blotting technique described here would also be applicable for the identification of other membrane steroid binding proteins/receptors using similar radiolabelled steroid-BSA conjugates.
Proteinase-activated receptor 2 (PAR-2) is a G protein-coupled receptor related to the thrombin receptor. PAR-2 can be activated by trypsin and by synthetic peptides corresponding to the new amino terminus generated by activating proteolytic cleavage. We show in this report that intravenous injection of PAR-2 agonist peptides has dramatic effects on arterial blood pressure in anesthetized rats. The peptide SLIGRLETQPPI, at 150 nmol/kg, transiently decreased the mean arterial pressure from 104 to 60 mm Hg. The hypotensive response was dose-dependent, and was not secondary to effects on central vasoregulatory systems, heart rate, or the kidneys. A nitric oxide synthase inhibitor attenuated the hypotensive response induced by the PAR-2 agonist peptide. Further experiments in vitro, on preparations of rat femoral artery and vein, showed that PAR-2 agonist peptide elicited a dose-dependent relaxation of both types of vessel. Removal of the endothelium abolished the agonist peptide-induced relaxation. Our results demonstrate that activation of PAR-2 can modulate vascular tone, and that this response was an effect mediated at least partly by nitric oxide. The effect on blood vessels further suggests that the physiological activator of this proteolytically activated receptor is an enzyme present and active in the blood, possibly after a vascular injury.
The reafference model has frequently been used to explain spatial constancy during eye and head movements. We have found that its basic concepts also form part of the information processing necessary for the control and recalibration of reaching movements. Reaching was studied in a novel force environment--a rotating room that creates centripetal forces of the type that could someday substitute for gravity in space flight, and Coriolis forces which are side effects of rotation. We found that inertial, noncontacting Coriolis forces deviate the path and endpoint of reaching movements, a finding that shows the inadequacy of equilibrium position models of movement control. Repeated movements in the rotating room quickly lead to normal movement patterns and to a failure to perceive the perturbing forces. The first movements made after rotation stops, without Coriolis forces present, show mirror-image deviations and evoke perception of a perturbing force even though none is present. These patterns of sensorimotor control and adaptation can largely be explained on the basis of comparisons of efference copy, reafferent muscle spindle, and cutaneous mechanoreceptor signals. We also describe experiments on human locomotion using an apparatus similar to that which Mittelstaedt used to study the optomotor response of the Eristalis fly. These results show that the reafference principle relates as well to the perception of the forces acting on and exerted by the body during voluntary locomotion.
We investigated the neuroprotective effect of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA)-receptor antagonist YM90K in transient global ischemia models. In a gerbil model, transient ischemia was induced by bilateral common carotid artery (CCA) occlusion for 5 min. On administration at 1 hr after ischemia, the AMPA antagonists NBQX (30 mg/kg, i.p. x 3) and YM90K (15 mg/kg, i.p. x 3 or 30 mg/kg, i.p. x 3) significantly reduced the delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 region from 4 days after bilateral CCA occlusion. Furthermore, YM90K (30 mg/kg, i.p. x 3) showed a neuroprotective effect even when given at 6 hr after ischemia. In contrast, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists CGS19755, MNQX (30 mg/kg, i.p. x 3, each) and (+/-)MK-801 (10 mg/kg, i.p.) were not effective on injection at 1 hr after ischemia in this model. In a rat model, ischemia was induced by 4-vessel occlusion (4-VO) for 10 min. YM90K was administered 60 min after reperfusion. Rectal and temporal muscle temperatures were maintained at the same level as in the control group for 6 hr. YM90K markedly prevented the development of delayed neuronal death from 7 days after 4-VO at doses of 15 or 30 mg/kg, i.p. x 3, with neuroprotective efficacy similar to that in the gerbil model. These results suggest that the AMPA receptor plays a critical role in the development of the delayed neuronal death induced by transient global cerebral ischemia. They also suggest that the neuroprotective effect of YM90K is not related to its hypothermic effect.
The fast response (FR) is an early reduction in the amplitude of the fMR signal occurring shortly after the onset of stimulation. Owing to its potential advantages in terms of temporal and spatial resolution, it may be of considerable significance in functional experiments. A model for the mechanism of the FR was developed which accounts for the fMRS finding that the amplitude of the dip decreases with increasing echo time. Two computer simulations that confirmed the predictions of the model and showed that it is possible to select optimal echo times for the detection of the FR were performed.
Blushing is a well-known but relatively poorly understood phenomenon. This paper reviews the phenomenology, neurobiology, and psychology of blushing. We argue that a neuroethological understanding of blushing provides a useful explanation of many aspects of normal blushing, and leads to a useful account of social phobia. More specifically, we argue that social phobia can be conceptualized in terms of an inappropriate appeasement display.
The specific transfer of vesicles between organelles is critical in generating and maintaining the organization of membrane compartments within cells. Syntaxin 6 is a recently discovered member of the syntaxin family, whose constituents are required components of several vesicle trafficking pathways. To better understand the function of syntaxin 6, we generated a panel of monoclonal antibodies that specifically recognize different epitopes of the protein. Immunoelectron microscopy shows syntaxin 6 primarily on the trans-Golgi network (TGN), where is partially colocalizes with the TGN adapter protein AP-1 on clathrin-coated membranes. Additional label is present on small vesicles in the vicinity of endosome-like structures. Immunoprecipitation of syntaxin 6 revealed that it is present in a complex or complexes with alpha-soluble NSF attachment protein, vesicle-associated membrane protein 2, or cellubrevin and a mammalian homologue of VPS45, which is a member of the sec1 family implicated in Golgi to prevacuolar compartment trafficking in yeast. We show that mammalian VPS45 is found in multiple tissues, is partially membrane associated, and is enriched in the Golgi region. Converging lines of evidence suggest that syntaxin 6 mediates a TGN trafficking event, perhaps targeting to endosomes in mammalian cells.


We examined and compared a mechanosensitive human sural neuroma and a contralateral sural nerve collected simultaneously from a patient involved in a diabetic neuropathy research protocol. Using indirect immunofluorescence staining. we identified a striking difference in the content within axons of two neuropeptides, substance P (SP) and calcitonin, gene-related peptide (CGRP), between the contralateral nerve and the neuroma. Unlike the contralateral nerve, where immunofluorescence was sparse, a significant number of disorganized axon profiles that stained brightly positive for CGRP or SP were identified in the neuroma. In contrast, staining for tyrosine hydroxylase, a label of sympathetic axons, was largely absent except around one large arteriole. The neuroma specimen also contained large numbers of serotonin-containing mast cells, only noted occasionally in the contralateral nerve. The peptide staining and mast cell accumulation in the human neuroma closely resembled changes we have previously observed in an animal neuroma model. Local neuropeptides may play a role in the injury response of peripheral nerve, and may be related to mechanosensitivity.
To understand the interspike interval (ISI) variability displayed by visual cortical neurons (Softky &amp; Koch, 1993), it is critical to examine the dynamics of their neuronal integration, as well as the variability in their synaptic input current. Most previous models have focused on the latter factor. We match a simple integrate-and-fire model to the experimentally measured integrative properties of cortical regular spiking cells (McCormick, Connors, Lighthall, &amp; Prince, 1985). After setting RC parameters, the post-spike voltage reset is set to match experimental measurements of neuronal gain (obtained from in vitro plots of firing frequency versus injected current). Examination of the resulting model leads to an intuitive picture of neuronal integration that unifies the seemingly contradictory 1/square root of N and random walk pictures that have previously been proposed. When ISIs are dominated by postspike recovery, 1/square root of N arguments hold and spiking is regular; after the &quot;memory&quot; of the last spike becomes negligible, spike threshold crossing is caused by input variance around a steady state and spiking is Poisson. In integrate-and-fire neurons matched to cortical cell physiology, steady-state behavior is predominant, and ISIs are highly variable at all physiological firing rates and for a wide range of inhibitory and excitatory inputs.
How can information hidden in a spatial configuration of neuronal activity be addressed? The Markov Random Field method for the analysis of the spatial component of a multidimensional neuronal process is introduced and after simulations is applied to experimental data on rat at olivocerebellar activity. Using this method it was determined, for the first time, that the activity demonstrates dynamic coupling and may have different fine spatial substructures. The results obtained support the view that the inferior olive serves as a movement organizing centre that controls motor activity by means of spatially as well as temporally organized patterns of coherent activity. Copyright 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.
The lesions of Alzheimer disease (AD) consist of synapse and neuron loss associated with progressive deposition of amyloid as diffuse and neuritic plaques and accumulating tau abnormalities in the form of neurofibrillary tangles and neuropil threads. Diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer disease constitute arbitrary cut-off levels above which AD is deemed to exist, and below which lesser amounts of the same abnormalities are relegated to the nebulous category of aging changes. Demanding neocortical tangles for a diagnosis of AD sacrifices sensitivity on the altar of specificity, since, while such lesions usually represent an advanced stage in the orderly evolution of AD, lighter burdens of plaque-predominant AD pathology with tangles confined to the medial temporal lobe can cause dementia when associated with concomitant synapse loss. Such muted AD pathology typifies the Lewy body variant of AD, and it serves to segregate it from pure Lewy body disease. We endorse the semiquantitative neuritic-plaque based criteria from CERAD for routine diagnosis, and Braak staging with descriptive profiling of AD lesions in a research context.
Virtually complete destruction of dentate gyrus granule cells by colchicine injections produced a persistent incapacity to solve spatial problems in rats. A topographically more selective but only locally complete destruction of granule cells using injections of neutral fluid (NFL) impaired acquisition during the initial stages of Morris water maze testing, thus indicating that limited degeneration of granule cells may weakly but significantly alter spatial learning capabilities. A subamnestic dose (0.08 mg/kg ip) of the NMDA antagonist MK-801 worsened radial maze performance only in NFL-treated rats, suggesting that there may be a synergistic interaction between NMDA blockade and limited granule cell degeneration.
Development of the central somatosensory system is profoundly modulated by the sensory periphery. Cauterization of facial whiskers alters the segregation pattern of barrels in rodents only during a few days just after birth (critical period). Although a molecular basis of the segregation of barrel neurons and the critical period for the anatomical plasticity observed in layer IV barrel neuron is not clear yet, the accumulating evidence suggests that neurotrophins modulate synaptic connections including central nervous system. In this study, we showed by in situ hybridization that mouse barrel side neurons express brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA and both catalytic and non-catalytic forms of trkB mRNA. Cautery of row C vibrissae on the right side of the face within 24 h after birth (post natal day 0, PND0) reduced the expression of BDNF and trkB mRNA from the division region between the contralateral row C barrels at PND7. The vibrissae in row A, C, and E were cauterized at PND0 followed by quantitative RT-PCR for BDNF and trkB mRNA with total RNA isolated from the barrel region at PND7. The result showed that BDNF, but not trkB, mRNA was increased several-fold in the contralateral barrel region. These data suggest that the expression of BDNF mRNA is differentially regulated between injured barrels and actively innervated barrels. The differential expression of the mRNA encoding neurotrophins and their receptors may be important in regulating the injury-dependent re-segregation of barrels.
To ascertain effects of total ischemia on brain phospholipid metabolism, anesthetized rats were decapitated and unesterified fatty acids and long chain acyl-CoA concentrations were analyzed in brain after 3 or 15 min. Control brain was taken from rats that were microwaved. Fatty acids were quantitated by extraction, thin layer chromatography and gas chromatography. Long-chain acyl-CoAs were quantitated by solubilization, solid phase extraction with an oligonucleotide purification cartridge and HPLC. Unesterified fatty acid concentrations increased significantly after decapitation, most dramatically for arachidonic acid (76 fold at 15 min) followed by docosahexaenoic acid. Of the acyl-CoA molecular species only the concentration of arachidonoyl-CoA was increased at 3 min and 15 min after decapitation, by 3-4 fold compared with microwaved brain. The concentration of docosahexaenoyl-CoA fell whereas concentrations of the other acyl-CoAs were unchanged. The increase in arachidonoyl-CoA after decapitation indicates that reincorporation of arachidonic acid into membrane phospholipids is possible during ischemia, likely at the expense of docosahexaenoic acid.
Substance P (SP) and estrogen receptor immunoreactivity overlap in the midbrain central gray (MCG) of female guinea pigs. Estrogen-receptor-containing cells are found throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the MCG. Moderately dense SP immunostaining is also found in this region. SP-immunoreactive punctate structures suggestive of boutons were found in close association with the processes of some estrogen-receptor-immunoreactive neurons. These associations were observed primarily in the lateral and ventrolateral MCG at the midcollicular and caudal levels. This findings suggests an anatomical substrate for interactions between SP and estradiol-sensitive neurons in the midbrain. Such interactions may underlie the effects of SP on female sexual behavior.
An automated registration algorithm was used to elastically match an anatomical magnetic resonance (MR) atlas onto individual brain MR images. Our goal was to evaluate the accuracy of this procedure for measuring the volume of MRI brain structures. We applied two successive algorithms to a series of 28 MR brain images, from 14 schizophrenia patients and 14 normal controls. First, we used an automated segmentation program to differentiate between white matter, cortical and subcortical gray matter, and cerebrospinal fluid. Next, we elastically deformed the atlas segmentation to fit the subject's brain, by matching the white matter and subcortical gray matter surfaces. To assess the accuracy of these measurements, we compared, on all 28 images, 11 brain structures, measured with elastic matching, with the same structures traced manually on MRI scans. The similarity between the measurements (the relative difference between the manual and the automated volume) was 97% for whole white matter, 92% for whole gray matter, and on average 89% for subcortical structures. The relative spatial overlap between the manual and the automated volumes was 97% for whole white matter, 92% for whole gray matter, and on average 75% for subcortical structures. For all pairs of structures rendered with the automated and the manual method, Pearson correlations were between r = 0.78 and r = 0.98 (P &lt; 0.01, N = 28), except for globus pallidus, where r = 0.55 (left) and r = 0. 44 (right) (P &lt; 0.01, N = 28). In the schizophrenia group, compared to the controls, we found a 16.7% increase in MRI volume for the basal ganglia (i.e., caudate nucleus, putamen, and globus pallidus), but no difference in total gray/white matter volume or in thalamic MR volume. This finding reproduces previously reported results, obtained in the same patient population with manually drawn structures, and suggests the utility/efficacy of our automated registration algorithm over more labor-intensive manual tracings.
Understanding the role of the medial temporal lobe (MTL) in learning and memory is an important problem in cognitive neuroscience. Memory and learning processes that depend on the function of the MTL and related diencephalic structures (e.g., the anterior and mediodorsal thalamic nuclei) are defined as declarative. We have studied the MTL activity as indicated by regional cerebral blood flow with positron emission tomography and statistical parametric mapping during recall of abstract designs in a less practiced memory state as well as in a well-practiced (well-encoded) memory state. The results showed an increased activity of the MTL bilaterally (including parahippocampal gyrus extending into hippocampus proper, as well as anterior lingual and anterior fusiform gyri) during retrieval in the less practiced memory state compared to the well-practiced memory state, indicating a dynamic role of the MTL in retrieval during the learning processes. The results also showed that the activation of the MTL decreases as the subjects learn to draw abstract designs from memory, indicating a changing role of the MTL during recall in the earlier stages of acquisition compared to the well-encoded declarative memory state.
Sign and spoken language seem to be localized in the same brain areas. They elicit similar regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) patterns, even though sign language is dependent on spatial information. We investigated sign and spoken language perception in a group of healthy bilingual subjects. Four videotaped activation conditions were used during PET imaging: (1) sign language, (2) spoken language, (3) spoken language with mouth covered, and (4) spoken language on a sound track while showing a motionless face. Spoken language (condition 4) activated significantly the perisylvian cortex (Brodmann areas 22 and 43) bilaterally. Sign language activated the visual association areas (Brodmann areas 37 and 19) but did not selectively activate parietal regions. A reciprocal relationship was observed between the level of activation in visual language perception areas and that in auditory perception areas. We conclude that when healthy bilingual subjects use the visual route for sign language perception, the functional anatomy overlaps that of language processing containing both auditory and visual components.

The presence of the APOE epsilon 4 allele encoding apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4) is the major genetic risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms by which APOE epsilon 4 renders AD risk are unclear. In this report, we present genetic evidence that an apoE receptor, LRP, may be associated with the expression of late-onset AD. Using a biallelic genetic marker in exon 3 of LRP, late-onset AD cases markedly differed from the control subjects in the distribution of LRP genotypes, and this difference was highly accentuated among AD cases with positive family history of senile dementia. Furthermore, the numbers of neutritic plaques were significantly altered as a consequence of different LRP genotypes in postmortem AD cases. Taken together, our results implicate the pathophysiology of LRP in the expression of late-onset AD.

Sonic hedgehog (Shh) is a putative morphogen secreted by the floor plate and notochord, which specifies the fate of multiple cell types in the ventral aspect of the vertebrate nervous system. Since in Drosophila the actions of Hh have been shown to be transduced by Cubitus interruptus (Ci), a zinc finger transcription factor, we examined whether a vertebrate homolog of this protein can mediate the functions of Shh in the vertebrate nervous system. Here, we demonstrate that expression of Gli-1, one of three vertebrate homologs of Ci, can be induced by Shh in the neural tube. Further, ectopic expression of Gli-1 in the dorsal midbrain and hindbrain of transgenic mice mimics the effects of ectopically expressed Shh-N, leading to the activation of ventral neural tube markers such as Ptc, HNF-3beta, and Shh; to the suppression of dorsal markers such as Pax-3 and AL-1; and to the formation of ectopic dorsal clusters of dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons. These findings demonstrate that GLI-1 can reproduce the cell patterning actions of Shh in the developing nervous system and provide support for the hypothesis that it is a mediator of the Shh signal in vertebrates.
Bradykinin has been implicated in nociception and inflammation. To examine the relative significance of B1 and B2 bradykinin receptor subtypes in sympathetic and sensory ganglia, the electrophysiological effects of bradykinin analogues and the expression of receptor subtype mRNA were examined in wild-type and &quot;B2 knockout&quot; mice from which the B2 receptor gene had been deleted. In wild-type mice the B2 receptor agonist bradykinin depolarized superior cervical ganglia (SCG) and activated inward currents in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurones. Responses to the B1 receptor agonist, [des-Arg10]-kallidin, were seen only in SCG that had been pre-treated with interleukins and the peptidase inhibitor captopril, but not in DRG neurones. The up-regulation of responses to [des-Arg10]-kallidin and substance P were blocked by indomethacin and, thus, were dependent upon cyclo-oxygenase activity. The effects of bradykinin were abolished in SCG and DRG's from B2 knockout mice and this was correlated with the absence of B2 receptor mRNA in ganglia from these animals. However, despite the presence of B1 receptor mRNA in interleukin treated SCG from B2 knockout mice, no depolarizing effects of the B1 receptor agonist [des-Arg10]-kallidin were observed. The successful elimination of bradykinin responses and B2 mRNA in sympathetic and sensory ganglia from B2 knockout mice, confirms that B2 receptors are the predominant functional bradykinin receptor subtype in these tissues and that B1 receptor mRNA is expressed in both sympathetic and sensory ganglia from these animals.
We isolated and characterized a cDNA encoding the human metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 1b (hmGluR1b). In situ hybridization studies in human brain regions revealed a higher distribution of mGluR1 mRNA in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, the substantia nigra pars compacta and the Purkinje cell layer of the cerebellum compared to other regions studied. We established stable expression of recombinant hmGluR1b in L(tk-) mouse fibroblast and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO-dhfr-) cells. In both expression systems, agonist activation of hmGluR1b stimulated inositol phosphate (InsP) formation and elevation of the cytosolic free calcium ([Ca2+]i), and both responses were blocked by (S)-MCPG. The rank order of potency for agonists was quisqualate &gt; glutamate &gt; (1S,3R)-ACPD in both expression systems. Comparison of the agonist profiles of hmGluR1b and hmGluR5a, both stably expressed in L(tk-) cells, indicated the same rank order of potency (quisqualate &gt; glutamate &gt; or = (RS)-3,5-DHPG &gt; or = (1S,3R)-ACPD), but each of the four agonists were more potent on hmGluR5a than on hmGluR1b. In antagonist studies, (S)-MCPG inhibited the agonist-induced InsP formation and elevation of [Ca2+]i in both hmGluR1b- and hmGluR5a-expressing cells. (S)-4CPG and (S)-4C3HPG both inhibited agonist responses only in hmGluR1b-expressing cells. However, in hmGluR5a-expressing cells the antagonist activity of (S)-4CPG and (S)-4C3HPG was dependent on the agonist used in the study, since they inhibited responses to glutamate but not to quisqualate. Stable cell lines expressing specific subtypes of human mGluRs represent valuable tools for the study of the mechanism of action of mGluRs at the molecular and cellular level and as screening targets for identification of subtype-selective agonists or antagonists.
The question of gestalts is discussed within the framework of its neuronal mechanisms. Two basic hypotheses are considered: 1) that of gestalts as a result of the hierarchical organization of neurons (gnostic units), and 2) that of gestalts as a result of the synchronization of neurons of a given level. Analysis of published data led to the conclusion that gestalts result from vector coding in the hierarchical organization of neurons. High-frequency oscillations in the gamma range (40-200 Hz) are of endogenous origin, and their function is to reinforce the synaptic inputs to those neurons which are involved in the synthesis of a gestalt.
Intracellular calcium levels ([Ca2+]i) during and following electrical activity of the neuroendocrine caudodorsal cells of the pond snail (Lymnaea stagnalis) were measured in situ and is dissociated cells by combining electrical recordings and Fura-2 measurements. Caudodorsal cells are typical neuroendocrine cells that control egg laying via the release of a set of peptides during a stereotyped discharge of action potentials. Single action potentials or short trains of spikes in dissociated caudodorsal cells induced only small but consistent increases in [Ca2+]i. With longer or repeated spike trains, larger [Ca2+]i transients were measured, indicating accumulation of calcium. The calcium channel blocker Ni2+ suppressed the calcium elevation, suggesting that calcium influx occurred through voltage-activated calcium channels. Calcium levels in caudodorsal cells in situ were measured before, during and after the stereotyped firing pattern, a approximately 35-min discharge of regular spiking. Basal calcium levels in caudodorsal cells in situ were about 125 nM. During the initial phase of the discharge, the intracellular calcium level increased to approximately 250 nM. Maximal calcium levels (300-600 nM) were only reached at the final phase of the discharge or several minutes after the cessation of firing. Calcium levels remained elevated for up to 1 h after the end of the discharge. During this time, caudodorsal cells were characterized by very low excitability. We suggest that the prolonged, elevated level of calcium following the discharge need not be directly dependent on action potentials. The long-lasting [Ca2+]i elevation may cause the release of neuropeptides to outlast the duration of electrical activity, thus uncoupling release from spiking. In addition, it may cause reduced excitability of neuroendocrine cells following a period of spiking, thereby inducing a refractory period.
This study was aimed at assessing the contribution of reflex and non-reflex factors to the muscle tone of old female Wistar rats. The hind foot of a rat was flexed or extended at the ankle joint by 25 degrees over 250 ms. The resistance of the foot to passive movements (torque, mechanomyogram), as well as the reflex electromyographic activity in the gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior muscles, were recorded simultaneously. Moreover, the impact of the blockade of the reflex activity caused by the local anesthetic lignocaine (1-2 ml of a 2% solution, injected in the vicinity of the sciatic nerve) on the muscle tone was investigated. Additionally, old rats' hind leg muscle samples were analysed using fluorescent microscopy for the expression of fibronectin, which is an early marker of connective tissue formation. It has been shown that old rats are characterized by (i) a substantially increased resistance of flexor muscle stiffness (measured during extension) and unchanged resistance of extensors (measured during flexion), (ii) the loss of a major part of the reflex electromyographic activity and (iii) the increased content of fibronectin in muscles. Moreover, it has been shown that lignocaine, which completely blocked the electromyographic reflex activity in the gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior muscles in young animals, was unable to counteract the resistance of these muscles to passive movements in old rats. The present results suggest that the muscle stiffness seen in old rats is not due to a reflex response, but depends mainly on non-reflex factors--chiefly on a large overgrowth of non-elastic connective tissue replacing degenerated active muscle fibers.
Innervation patterns of sensory nerves from the trigeminal ganglion to the cochlear blood vessels were studied using retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase. Guinea-pigs (n=7) were unilaterally implanted with an osmotic pump and a cannula for cochlear delivery of 2% or 20% wheat germ agglutinin horseradish peroxidase (Group 1), 2% wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase followed by 100 micromol capsaicin (Group 2), or vehicle alone. Histological sections of the trigeminal ganglia, the C1 and C2 dorsal ganglia, the superior and inferior ganglia of the glossopharyngeal nerve bilaterally, the midbrain and the brainstem were obtained after 48 h of infusion. In Group 1, a large number of labeled nerve cell bodies were observed in the anteromedial portion of the trigeminal ganglion and at the origin of the ophthalmic nerve. Some labeled cells were also found on the lateral side of the ophthalmic nerve, as well as on the medial side of the maxillary nerve root. Capsaicin pretreatment significantly reduced the density of labeled neurons in the trigeminal ganglion. A few labeled neurons were also found in the trigeminal brainstem nucleus complex and in certain auditory brainstem nuclei. No wheat germ agglutinin horseradish peroxidase-positive cells were observed in the spinal C1 or C2 cervical ganglia or in the superior or inferior glossopharyngeal ganglia. In contrast, wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase application to the middle ear resulted in labeled cells in the middle posterolateral portion of the trigeminal ganglia and in the superior ganglia of the glossopharyngeal nerve. These results provide the first direct evidence that the trigeminal ganglion sends projections to the cochlea.
Neurons in the central nervous system regulate their intracellular pH using particular membrane proteins of which two, namely the Na+-dependent Cl-/HCO3- exchanger and the Na+/H+ exchanger, are essential. In this study we examined messenger RNA expression and distribution of Na+/H+ exchanger in the newborn rat central nervous system and with maturation using Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization. Our study clearly shows that each Na+/H+ exchanger has a different expression pattern in the rat central nervous system. As in non-excitable tissues, Na+/H+ exchanger 1 is by far the most abundant of all Na+/H+ exchangers in the rat central nervous system. Its expression is ubiquitous although its messenger RNA appears at higher levels in the hippocampus, in the 2nd/3rd layers of periamygdaloid cortex and in the cerebellum. The low level of messenger RNAs encoding Na+/H+ exchanger 2 and 4 is mainly expressed in the cerebral cortex and in the brainstem-diencephalon, while Na+/H+ exchanger 3 transcripts are found only in the cerebellar Purkinje cells. From a developmental point of view, Na+/H+ exchanger 1, 2 and 4 showed an increased level in their transcripts in the cerebral cortex while an opposite trend existed in the cerebellum from postnatal day 0 to postnatal day 30. The messenger RNA for Na+/H+ exchanger 3, however, increased its level with age in cerebellum. From our data we conclude that: i) the expression of the Na+/H+ exchanger is age-, region-, and subtype-specific, with Na+/H+ exchanger 1 being the most prevalent in the rat central nervous system; ii) specialization of groups of neurons with respect to the type of Na+/H+ exchanger is clearly illustrated by Na+/H+ exchanger 3 which is almost totally localized in cerebellar Purkinje cells; and iii) the developmental increase in the messenger RNA for Na+/H+ exchanger 1 in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus is consistent with our previous studies on intracellular pH physiology in neonatal and mature neurons. Together this study indicates that expression of each Na+/H+ exchanger messenger RNA is differentially regulated both during development and in the different regions of rat central nervous system.
Earlier findings have shown that alpha2-adrenoceptors in the nucleus tractus solitarius and rostral ventrolateral medulla modulate baroreflexes. The present study investigated whether attenuation of baroreflexes induced by surgical interruption of aortic baroafferents is related to an alteration of alpha2-adrenoceptor binding in these regions of the brainstem. In vitro autoradiography was utilized to assess the density and binding dissociation constant (affinity) of alpha2-adrenoceptors in the rostral ventrolateral medulla and in the middle and rostral portions of the nucleus tractus solitarius of aortic-barodenervated and sham-operated rats. Compared to sham operation, aortic barodenervation caused an acute rise in mean arterial pressure and heart rate and a significant reduction in baroreflex sensitivity. Two days later, mean arterial pressure and heart rate of conscious aortic-barodenervated rats subsided to sham-operated levels, whereas the baroreflex sensitivity remained significantly (P&lt;0.05) reduced when measured by phenylephrine (0.55+/-0.08 vs 1.26+/-0.07 ms/mmHg) or nitroprusside (0.43+/-0.06 vs 1.01+/-0.09ms/mmHg). Examination of brainstem coronal sections obtained from separate groups of rats 48 h after surgery and preincubated with [3H]rauwolscine (0.5-16 nM) revealed that labeling of alpha2 binding sites was saturable and of high affinity. Scatchard analysis of the saturation isotherms obtained from the three brain areas of sham-operated rats showed an uneven distribution of alpha2 binding sites; the rostral nucleus tractus solitarius exhibited the highest density and lowest affinity. Aortic barodenervation caused region-dependent changes in the binding activity of alpha2-adrenoceptors. These changes comprised significant (P&lt;0.05) increases in the density of alpha2-adrenoceptors in the middle nucleus tractus solitarius (436+/-60 vs 240+/-50 fmol/mg protein) and rostral ventrolateral medulla (350+/-67 vs 194+/-35 fmol/mg protein) compared with sham-operated rats; no significant changes occurred in the rostral nucleus tractus solitarius. The affinity of alpha2 binding sites was not changed by aortic barodenervation in any of the three brain regions. These findings suggest that attenuation of baroreflexes produced by aortic barodenervation coincides with up-regulation of alpha2-adrenoceptors in brainstem areas that play critical roles in the control of cardiovascular functions.
The midbrain periaqueductal gray matter has been identified as a reflex centre located uppermost in the central organization of diverse defensive reactions. We recently found that when activated, the caudal third of the lateral periaqueductal gray was also capable of provoking a marked increase in cortical blood flow. The response may be the combined outcome of a flow increase of nitrergic origin and that coupled to a possible concomitant cortical activation. In the present study, we attempted to clarify the neural substrates for mediation of the increase in flow (observed by laser-Doppler flowmetry), in 49 anaesthetized, artificially ventilated, and cervically cordotomized rats. The flow increase provoked by stimulation of the particular subdivision of the periaqueductal gray with N-methyl-D-aspartate (1 mM, 100 nl) was unaffected by i.v. pentolinium tartrate (10 mg/kg), suggesting little contribution by the cerebrovasodilator parasympathetic nervous system to the response. The response was abolished by i.v. or topical cortical administration of scopolamine hydrobromide (3.16 mg/kg or 1.0 mM, respectively). Placement of bilateral lesions in the basal forebrain with alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (15 mM) impaired the cortical choline acetyltransferase activity and attenuated the flow response. Overall, we suggest that the cholinergic corticopetal neurons of the nucleus basalis of Meynert and cortical muscarinic receptors may form a principal efferent arm of a central circuitry emanating from the subdivision of the periaqueductal gray, in the mediation of the increase in cortical blood flow and possible cortical activation.
This study investigated the effects of (+/-)-2-dipropylamino-8-hydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthaline hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT) on circadian rhythms in Syrian hamsters. Systemic administration of 8-OH-DPAT (0.75 mg in 150 microl saline) at circadian time 7 produced phase advances in the circadian activity rhythm. These 8-OH-DPAT-induced phase advances were blocked by microinjection of bicuculline (166 ng, 200 nl) into the suprachiasmatic nucleus, suggesting that GABAergic activity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus mediates the phase shifts produced by systemic injections of 8-OH-DPAT. Microinjection of 8-OH-DPAT (1 microg, 200 nl) or serotonin (0.7 microg, 200 nl) directly into the suprachiasmatic nucleus did not induce phase shifts at circadian time 7, suggesting that the phase shifting effects of systemic injection of 8-OH-DPAT are mediated outside the suprachiasmatic nucleus. To examine possible sites of action of 8-OH-DPAT, 8-OH-DPAT (0.5 microg (100 nl) or 1.0 microg (200 nl)) was microinjected into the intergeniculate leaflet, dorsal raphe nuclei, and the median raphe nucleus at circadian time 7. Significant phase advances were observed after microinjection into the dorsal raphe and median raphe but not the intergeniculate leaflet. These results support the hypothesis that systemic injection of serotonergic agonists can alter circadian rhythms via action in the midbrain raphe nucleus, and that the phase shifts induced by microinjection of 8-OH-DPAT into the raphe nuclei are mediated by a neurotransmitter other than serotonin within the suprachiasmatic nucleus.
According to our earlier study, the catecholamine depletion in neonatal rats resulted in stimulation of the vasopressin and oxytocin gene expression in the neurons of the supraoptic nucleus. The present study extends this line, evaluating whether the catecholamine deficiency provides a long-lasting effect on the differentiating vasopressin and oxytocin neurons of the supraoptic nucleus. Catecholamines were depleted by daily injections of an inhibitor of the catecholamine synthesis, alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, first, to pregnant rats from the 9th to the 21st day of gestation and, then, to their pups from the 2nd to the 10th postnatal day. The animals, injected with saline instead of drugs, served as controls. The pharmacologically-treated and control rats were kept for four months under normal laboratory conditions until processing the materials for semi-quantitative in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry of vasopressin and oxytocin messenger RNAs and peptides, respectively. There were no differences in the vasopressin and oxytocin messenger RNA concentrations in the supraoptic nucleus in rats following preliminary catecholamine depletion compared to controls. Conversely, the catecholamine deficiency resulted in an increased content of the vasopressin-immunoreactive material in cell bodies and processes. This was also the case for the oxytocin-immunoreactive cell bodies but only in females, suggesting an interference of catecholamines with sexual steroids in their action. The number and size of vasopressin and oxytocin neurons did not change in pharmacologically-treated rats compared to the controls. Thus, the catecholamine deficiency in the course of the neuron differentiation resulted in a long-lasting augmentation of the intracellular content of vasopressin and oxytocin but did not influence the vasopressin and oxytocin gene expression. This might be explained rather by the reduced level of peptide release than by an increased level of the peptide production.
Recognition of the role of nitric oxide in cell-to-cell communication has changed the concept of traditional neurotransmission. We have shown previously that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors mediate dipsogenic responses and c-Fos expression induced by intracerebroventricular infusion of angiotensin II. Since these receptors are known to be linked to the nitric oxide-cyclic GMP pathway, the present study explores the contribution of this path to the behavioural and cellular effects of intracerebroventricular angiotensin II by using behavioural testing, NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry and immunocytochemical staining for the immediate-early gene, c-fos. N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (125 and 250 microg, intracerebroventricular), an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, and Methylene Blue (100 microg), an inhibitor of guanylate cyclase activation, antagonized water intake induced by intracerebroventricular injection of 25 pmol angiotensin II. The effects of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester were reversed by co-injection of L-arginine, the substrate for nitric oxide synthase. However, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester did not alter the pattern of angiotensin II-induced c-fos expression in the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, median preoptic nucleus, hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and supraoptic nucleus. Double staining with NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry and c-Fos immunocytochemistry showed that neurons staining for both were localized to the anterior third ventricle. However, only 19-25% of the c-Fos-positive neurons expressed NADPH. There were also substantial numbers of neurons in which angiotensin II induced c-Fos that were NADPH-negative. Extensive co-distribution of NADPH-diaphorase-stained cells and those expressing c-fos in response to intracerebroventricular injection of angiotensin II, especially in the median preoptic nucleus, imply that nitric oxide might participate in the mechanism of angiotensin II-induced drinking behaviour. However, a low rate of co-localization of the two markers to individual cells suggests that angiotensin II stimulated the production of nitric oxide and c-Fos in different populations of neurons. Since our previous results showed that glutamate blockade, but not nitric oxide synthase inhibition, suppressed angiotensin II-induced c-Fos, the experiments reported here further suggest that nitric oxide release is not an essential requirement for the expression of c-fos elicited by angiotensin II. They also provide evidence that the dipsogenic and c-Fos responses to angiotensin II are dissociated at a cellular level.
The patterns of cell death induced by the cholinergic neurotoxin ethylcholine aziridinium have been investigated in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, the drug induced apoptosis both in neuronal SK-N-MC cells (human neuroblastoma cells) and in non-neuronal 293 cells (a human embryonic kidney cell line). Apoptosis was developed maximally between 15 and 24 h of exposure to ethylcholine aziridinium (100 microM). At the ultrastructural level apoptotic cells were characterized by condensation and margination of nuclear chromatin, fragmentation of nuclei and the formation of apoptotic bodies. Inhibition of endonuclease by zinc almost completely prevented the occurrence of apoptosis. The free radical scavenger Tempol effectively inhibited ethylcholine aziridinium-induced apoptosis by 78.6 +/- 10.3% (n=4), whereas cycloheximide and actinomycin D were only partially effective. In vivo, following injection of ethylcholine aziridinium (2 nmol) into the lateral ventricle of rat brain a high incidence of apoptotic cells as verified by in situ tailing was visible in the periventricular tissue. Neurons as well as glia were affected by the neurotoxin. The number of apoptotic cells peaked two to three days after injection of ethylcholine aziridinium and declined thereafter. Up to one week after ethylcholine aziridinium no signs for the induction of apoptosis in the medial septal nucleus were found. This study provides clear evidence that a neurotoxic compound that induces programmed cell death in vitro is likely to have the same capacity in vivo. Yet, in the case of ethylcholine aziridinium, both the in vitro and the in vivo induction of programmed cell death appears to be an additional feature of ethylcholine aziridinium, which may be independent of the well-established degenerative effect of ethylcholine aziridinium on the cholinergic septohippocampal pathway. The present data indicate that ethylcholine aziridinium provides a useful tool to study molecular mechanisms of neuronal apoptosis.
A role in neuronal homeostasis is suggested by the persistent expression of the insulin-like growth factors in the adult nervous system. SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells, a well-characterized in vitro model of human neurons, were used to investigate the effects of hyperosmotic stress on neurons. Neuronal DNA fragmentation was detected within 1 h and pyknotic nuclei were apparent in attached cells after 12 h of hyperosmotic stress. In parallel, flow cytometry measurements revealed a sudden increase in the rate of cells irreversibly undergoing programmed cell death after 12 h of hyperosmotic exposure. Insulin-like growth factor-I delayed the onset of a laddered DNA fragmentation pattern for 24 h and provided continuing protection against hyperosmotic exposure for 72 h. Amino acid uptake was decreased in hyperosmotic medium even in the presence of insulin-like growth factor-I; the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide neither prevented the induction of programmed cell death nor interfered with the ability of insulin-like growth factor-I to act as an osmoprotectant in hyperosmotic medium. Cysteine and serine protease inhibitors each prevented DNA fragmentation under hyperosmotic conditions, suggesting that the osmoprotectant activity of insulin-like growth factor-I involves the suppression of protease activity. Collectively, these results indicate that insulin-like growth factor-I limits the death of neurons under stressful environmental conditions, suggesting that it may provide a candidate therapy in the treatment of hyperosmolar coupled neurological injury.
Opioids have been found to modulate the function of the immune system by regulating the biochemical and proliferative properties of its cellular components. The interaction of opioid and immune systems, however, is not unidirectional, but rather, bidirectional in nature. In the CNS, one cellular target of immune system activation is the astrocytes, glial cells known to synthesize proenkephalin. We have recently shown that these cells also express the messenger RNA transcripts for the opioid receptors mu, delta and kappa, raising the question of the functional significance of this opioid peptide and the related receptors in the astrocytes. That is, why do astrocytes express proenkephalin and opioid receptors, and are these molecules responsive to a factor to which the astrocytes could be exposed in vivo? Furthermore, do these molecules respond to this factor in a region-specific fashion? In the present study, in order to characterize the astrocytic opioid response to an immune factor, we examined the concomitant regulation of mu, delta, kappa and proenkephalin messenger RNAs by interleukin-1beta (1 ng/ml=60 pM, 24 h) in primary astrocyte-enriched cultures derived from the rat (post-natal day 1-2) cortex, striatum, cerebellum, hippocampus and hypothalamus. Interleukin-1beta treatment was found to increase by 55-75% the level of mu receptor messenger RNA in striatal, cerebellar and hippocampal cultures, but not in cultures derived from the cortex or hypothalamus. However, the cytokine had no effect on the level of delta receptor messenger RNA in any of the five cultures examined. In marked contrast to its stimulatory effects on mu receptor messenger RNA levels and its lack of an effect on 6 receptor messenger RNA expression, interleukin-1beta reduced to 10-30% of control levels the kappa receptor messenger RNA levels in all cultures. Interleukin-1beta had no effect on the level of proenkephalin messenger RNA in cortical, striatal, cerebellar and hypothalamic cultures, but did significantly decrease the expression of proenkephalin messenger RNA in hippocampal cultures to 40% of the control level. Therefore, interleukin-1beta differentially regulated opioid receptor messenger RNA in astrocyte-enriched cultures in a manner dependent upon both the receptor type and the brain region from which the culture was derived. The cytokine also differentially regulated proenkephalin messenger RNA in a region-dependent fashion. These findings suggest a capacity for astrocytes to differentially regulate opioid peptide and receptor messenger RNAs in response to an immune factor, supporting the potential existence of a novel immune-opioid system interaction in the CNS.
The medium spiny neuron is the predominant striatal neuronal subtype. The striatum, a participant in motor and cognitive functions, is a site of pathophysiology in prevalent neuropsychiatric diseases and is the target of many currently utilized pharmacologic agents. DARPP-32, a dopamine and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, is a widely-used marker of mature striatal medium-sized neurons, but the molecules regulating DARPP-32 transcription have not been identified. We show that a null mutation in the mouse brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene leads to decreased DARPP-32 immunoreactivity in striatal medium spiny neurons at birth and postnatal day 10. Striatal DARPP-32 messenger RNA and protein are decreased relative to wild-type littermate controls. In densely plated (1 x 10(6) cells/cm2) primary cultures derived from the ganglionic eminences, addition of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (100 ng/ml) to defined media results in a greater than 3-fold increase in the number of DARPP-32-immunopositive cells after 12 h and greater than 4-fold (P&lt;0.005) after 24 h. The increase in DARPP-32-immunopositivity is abolished by the addition of 2 microg/ml actinomycin D without a significant effect on cell viability. These data suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor directly or indirectly regulates DARPP-32 transcription in medium spiny neurons. This is the first demonstration of transcriptional regulation of DARPP-32, and the first evidence of a forebrain abnormality in a newborn neurotrophin &quot;knockout&quot; mouse.
The effect of a chronic D2 dopamine receptor agonist (U91356A) treatment on dopamine receptor gene expression in the brain of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned monkeys was investigated using quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry. U91356A was administered to MPTP-monkeys for 27 days in a pulsatile (n=3) or continuous (n=3) schedule. Animals treated in a pulsatile mode showed progressive sensitization and developed dyskinesia; whereas with the continuous mode behavioural tolerance was observed but no dyskinesia developed. Untreated MPTP as well as naive control animals were also studied. The efficacy and uniformity of the MPTP effect was assessed by measures of dopamine concentrations by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection in the relevant brain areas. D1 and D2 receptor messenger RNAs levels were examined by in situ hybridization histochemistry using human complementary RNA probes. Intense specific labelling for D1 and D2 receptor messenger RNAs was measured in the caudate and putamen with a rostrocaudal gradient for D2 receptors and a lower density in the cortex for D1 receptors messenger RNA. D1 receptor mRNA levels in rostral striatum and cortex decreased whereas D2 receptor messenger RNA in caudal striatum increased in MPTP-monkeys compared to control animals. Continuous administration of U91356A reversed the MPTP-induced increase of D2 receptor messenger RNA, whereas the pulsatile administration did not significantly correct these messenger RNA changes. U91356A treatment whether continuous or pulsatile partially corrected the D1 receptor messenger RNA lesion-induced decrease in the striatum, whereas no correction was observed in the cortex. All MPTP-monkeys were extensively and similarly denervated suggesting that the D1 and D2 receptor expression changes following U91356A administration were treatment related. Our data show a lesion-induced imbalance of D1 (decrease) and D2 (increase) receptor messenger RNAs in the striatum of MPTP-monkeys. The response of these receptors to D1 agonist treatment showed receptor selectivity and was influenced by the time-course of drug delivery. Hence chronic continuous but not pulsatile administration of U91356A reversed the striatal D1 receptor messenger RNA increase.
Experiments were performed to examine the effect of metyrapone, an inhibitor of corticosterone synthesis, on the level of dopamine D1 receptors and their transcripts in the caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle of the rat brain. The binding to dopamine D1 receptors was measured by receptor autoradiography using the specific D1 receptor antagonist [3H]SCH 23390. The level of dopamine D1 receptor messenger RNA was determined by in situ hybridization histochemistry. The results obtained have shown that metyrapone (two injections of 150 and 50 mg/kg, i.p., given 20 and 3 h before killing, respectively) induced a decrease in the D1 receptor-specific binding in the studied areas of the rat brain. In the caudate putamen, the decrease in [3H]SCH 23390 binding was stronger in the medial (31-39%) than in the lateral part (24-27%). Decreases similar to those in the caudate-putamen were observed in the nucleus accumbens (21%) and olfactory tubercle (32%). Furthermore, metyrapone decreased the level of dopamine D1 receptor messenger RNA in the caudate putamen (17-28%), nucleus accumbens (20%) and olfactory tubercle (18%). In conclusion, our study indicates that glucocorticoids might be involved in the regulation of dopamine D1 receptor level in the rat brain. since metyrapone (which inhibits the synthesis of these hormones) decreases the messenger RNA encoding D1 receptor synthesis, as well as the specific binding to this receptor.
Long-term treatment with diazepam, a full allosteric modulator of the GABA(A) receptor, results in tolerance to its anticonvulsant effects, whereas an equipotent treatment with the partial allosteric modulator imidazenil does not produce tolerance. Use of subunit-specific antibodies linked to gold particles allowed an immunocytochemical estimation of the expression density of the alpha1, alpha2, alpha3, alpha5, gamma(2L&amp;S) and beta(2/3) subunits of the GABA(A) receptor in the frontoparietal motor and frontoparietal somatosensory cortices of rats that received long-term treatment with vehicle, diazepam (three times daily for 14 days, doses increasing from 17.6 to 70.4 micromol/kg), or imidazenil (three times daily for 14 days, doses increasing from 2.5 to 10.0 micromol/kg). In this study, tolerance to diazepam was associated with a selective decrease (37%) in the expression of the alpha1 subunit in layers III-IV of the frontoparietal motor cortex, and a concomitant increase in the expression of the alpha5 (150%), gamma(2L&amp;S) and beta(2/3) subunits (48%); an increase in alpha5 subunits was measured in all cortical layers. In the frontoparietal somatosensory cortex, diazepam-tolerant rats had a 221% increase in the expression of alpha5 subunits in all cortical layers, as well as a 35% increase in the expression of alpha3 subunits restricted to layers V-VI. Western blot analysis substantiated that these diazepam-induced changes reflected the expression of full subunit molecules. Rats that received equipotent treatment with imidazenil did not become tolerant to its anticonvulsant properties, and did not show significant changes in the expression of any of the GABA(A) receptor subunits studied, with the exception of a small decrease in alpha2 subunits in cortical layers V-VI of the frontoparietal somatosensory cortex. The results of this study suggest that tolerance to benzodiazepines may be associated with select changes in subunit abundance, leading to the expression of different GABA(A) receptor subtypes in specific brain areas. These changes might be mediated by a unique homeostatic mechanism regulating the expression of GABA(A) receptor subtypes that maintain specific functional features of GABAergic function in cortical cell layers.
It has been demonstrated that apoptotic cell death is an active process that is dependent on RNA and protein synthesis. The question remains as to whether neuronal death in adult, mammalian brains can also be demonstrated in vivo to be dependent on protein synthesis. To address this question we have analysed transneuronal death in the piriform (olfactory) cortex. Following unilateral olfactory bulb ablation in young adult rats, layer IIa of the piriform cortex undergoes rapid degeneration, that commences 12 h after ablation and that is almost complete at 48 h. In order to block protein synthesis, three to six subcutaneous injections of the short acting protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin, were given at 2 h intervals beginning just before the ablation of the olfactory bulb. In other cases a single injection of the long acting protein synthesis inhibitor emetine were made intracerebrally just before or after olfactory bulb ablation. The number of dying cells was then counted in sections through the rostrocaudal extent of the piriform cortex. Both anisomycin and emetine injections markedly reduced the number of pyknotic cells in layer IIa of the piriform cortex after olfactory bulb ablation. The effect of anisomycin was dose-dependent, near lethal doses leading to an almost complete absence of cell death (six injections of 100 mg/kg). As the doses of anisomycin were reduced, more dying cells were observed. Emetine was only effective at near lethal doses (10 mg/kg) and showed a greater capacity to reduce the levels of cell death when injected into structures near the piriform cortex (e.g., accumbens nucleus) than when injected into more distant structures. To further confirm that the cell death observed was due to apoptosis, we analysed sections by tunel staining to demonstrate DNA fragmentation. We found that tunel-positive cells were also always pyknotic, one of the landmarks of apoptosis. The appearance of pyknotic cells labelled by the tunel method demonstrated that the dying cells in the piriform cortex did indeed undergo apoptosis.
Membrane properties and inhibitory synaptic connections of normal and axotomized rat rubrospinal neurons were examined using a coronal slice preparation. Rubrospinal neurons were axotomized at the C2 vertebral level in vivo. Retrograde labelling in vivo and intracellular biocytin injection following recording were combined to identify recorded axotomized rubrospinal neurons. Their input resistances decreased three and four days and became higher than normal four and 10 weeks following lesioning which coincided with a sequential increase and decrease of their soma area. On the other hand, although their membrane time-constant was reduced three and four days following lesioning, it returned to normal value four and 10 weeks following axotomy. Other than these, their membrane current-voltage relationship including an inward rectification in the hyperpolarizing direction was not altered. Normal rubrospinal neurons generated very fast spikes which were not affected by axotomy. Both normal and axotomized cells generated trains of repetitive spikes with a fast spike frequency adaptation at the beginning upon suprathreshold current injection. However, the slope of the steady-state spike frequency and applied current relationship was increased four and 10 weeks following axotomy which also showed an increased steady-state spike frequency in response to high-amplitude current injection. Synaptically, the amplitude and duration of the monosynaptic inhibitory potential evoked from nearby reticular formation were reduced following axotomy. In addition, fewer rubrospinal neurons were found to receive this inhibition 10 weeks following axotomy. Thus, our results show that spinal axotomy induces a time-dependent modification of the membrane properties and spike generating behaviour of rubrospinal neurons which probably represents an initial decrease and a later increase of their excitability. This is accompanied by a persistent decrease of synaptic inhibition which is expected to affect structures that remained innervated by the undamaged axon collaterals of these spinally axotomized neurons.
We developed and characterized a recombinant herpes simplex virus vector and used it to introduce the complementary DNA encoding glutamate receptor subunit 1 flip into postmitotic motor neurons. Infection of purified motor neurons in vitro with this vector resulted in selective, high-level expression of glutamate receptor subunit 1 immunoreactivity in nearly 100% of the neurons. Patch-clamp experiments demonstrated that the protein product of the glutamate receptor subunit 1 flip transgene assembles into functional alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptor channels. Herpes simplex virus-glutamate receptor subunit 1 flip was introduced into spinal cord cells by direct injection into the ventral horn and selectively into motor neurons by sciatic nerve injection. High levels of expression were sustained for at least one week and were accompanied by changes in the ionic permeability of AMPA receptors in transgene-expressing neurons. Throughout the first week of infection, there was little evidence for toxicity. Herpes simplex virus provides a versatile tool for manipulating the glutamate receptor phenotype of postmitotic neurons and will permit study of the role of individual glutamate receptor subunits in neuronal physiology and pathophysiology.
In olfactory bulb slices from young rats, the field potential evoked in the glomerular layer by stimulation in the olfactory nerve layer consisted of two negative components: an early component (N1) which was blocked by bath application of the kainate/amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX, 10 microM), and a late, prolonged component (N2; duration &gt; or = 350 msec) which was unaffected by CNQX, was enhanced by reduction of Mg2+ in the medium, and was blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (50 microM). A comparison of the glomerular field potentials before and after knife cuts that isolated the glomerular layer from the deeper layers of the olfactory bulb indicated that both N1 and N2 were produced by currents generated, for the most part, within the glomeruli. A laminar analysis of the field potential profiles evoked by olfactory nerve stimulation in standard medium, or in the presence of CNQX, showed that N1 and N2 reversed polarity in the external plexiform and mitral cell layers, suggesting that both components reflected synaptic responses in the distal, apical dendrites of mitral/tufted cells. Simultaneous field potential recordings in the glomerular layer and intracellular recordings in the mitral cell layer showed that: (i) N1 is associated with a brief, short-latency spiking activity of mitral cells, and (ii) N2 is associated with prolonged mitral cell spiking, since N2 and the late cell firing had similar time-courses, and both were blocked by bath applied DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. Application of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide (10 microM) to standard medium selectively enhanced N2. The enhanced N2 was significantly reduced by DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. Strychnine, an antagonist of glycine receptors, had similar effects to those of bicuculline, but only at high concentrations that have been previously shown to block GABA(A) receptors; at low concentrations strychnine had no effect. The effects of all drugs tested were reversible. In the rat olfactory bulb, activation of the olfactory nerve evokes a kainate/AMPA receptor-mediated response in the distal, apical dendrites of mitral/tufted cells, followed by a slow N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated response which triggers prolonged discharge of mitral cells. GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition appears to suppress, preferentially, this N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated component. The presence of prolonged N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated postsynaptic activity at the primary synapses of the olfactory system may play a key role in olfactory processing by facilitating synaptic integration and plasticity.
The channel properties of the multimeric ionotropic glutamate receptors can be regulated by their subunit composition. The relationship between the structure and physiological functions of glutamate receptors, however, is difficult to study in the CNS because of the large number of these subunits, their widespread distribution, and neuronal heterogeneity. To avoid these difficulties, and to uncover possible novel functions of ionotropic glutamate receptors in sensory neurons, we examined the expression of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor subunits in a simple neuronal system: the olfactory epithelium. It contains only one neuronal type, the olfactory receptor neuron, that receives no synaptic innervation within the epithelium and therefore should not require conventional postsynaptic glutamate receptors. The axons of these neurons, however, terminate and release glutamate in the glomerular region of the olfactory bulb, and may contain presynaptic glutamate receptors. By reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction amplification and RNase protection assays, we showed that a subset of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits is expressed in the olfactory epithelium. The most abundant is KA2, which can form kainate-selective ion channels with GluR5 or GluR6. Messenger RNAs for GluR6, and for the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate/kainate-type (AMPA/KA) GluR2 and GluR3 subunits, are also present, but at levels lower than that of KA2 by an order of magnitude. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry localized KA2 to only the olfactory receptor neurons, and not to any other cell type in the olfactory epithelium. Surprisingly, antibodies against KA2 or GluR5/6/7 primarily stained the olfactory neuron dendritic knobs that are specialized for odorant signalling at the sensory epithelial lumenal surface, and the olfactory neuron axon bundles that project to the olfactory bulb. The presence of a limited subset of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits in the olfactory epithelium, and the localization of a kainate-selective receptor to both the axons and specialized dendritic knobs of olfactory receptor neurons, which receive no known synaptic input, suggest that these non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subtypes may mediate either novel non-synaptic functions in the olfactory neuron dendrites or presynaptic functions in the olfactory nerve terminals or axons. These data also suggest that the olfactory sensory system, possessing a relatively simple anatomical organization and a limited number of glutamate receptor subunits, may be useful for elucidating facets of the complex relationships between subunit composition and physiological function of ionotropic glutamate receptors.
The present study demonstrates cell-specific and developmental regulation of 5' and 3' splicing of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor NR1 subunit within specific neuronal populations of the hippocampus. At birth, NR1 transcripts lacking exon 5 (encoding the amino-terminal splice cassette N1) exhibit mature patterns of labelling within the hippocampus, with high levels of expression in the CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus. In contrast, exon 5-containing (NR1(1XX)) transcripts are expressed at low levels until P8, at which time expression is prominent and essentially uniform in the CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus. Exon 5 expression increases at a faster rate in CA3 than in CA1 or dentate gyrus. By the third week postnatal (postnatal day P21), exon 5-containing transcripts exhibit a distinct gradient of labelling, with more intense expression in CA3, than in CA1 or dentate gyrus. By P21 pyramidal neurons of the CA1 and granule cells of the dentate gyrus express mainly NR1(0XX) receptor messenger RNAs (lacking exon 5). Because splicing in of the N1 splice cassette confers greater current amplitude and enhanced potentiation by protein kinase C, these observations predict elevated levels of synaptic activity in the CA1 early in postnatal life, a time at which synaptic plasticity is enhanced. The carboxy-terminal splice cassettes C1 and C2 are regulated independently within the hippocampus. Whereas NR1(X11) (C1-, C2-containing) and NR1(X01) (C2 only) receptors exhibit high levels of expression in CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus, NR1(X00) receptors are expressed more intensely in pyramidal neurons of CA3. NR1(X10) receptor expression is very low in all cells and at all times examined, even in adults. Because splicing in of the C1 cassette is thought to regulate receptor targeting, clustering, and cytoskeletal interactions, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the two hippocampal subfields may play differing roles in synaptogenesis and the formation of new neuronal contacts. Moreover, cell-specific patterns of NR1(X11) receptor messenger RNAs parallel those of NR1(0XX) receptor messenger RNAs; and cell-specific patterns of NR1(1XX) (N1-containing) receptor messenger RNAs parallels those of NR1(X00) (C1-, C2-lacking) receptor messenger RNAs throughout development. These observations suggest that NR1(100) receptors, which exhibits the greatest potentiation by protein kinase C, are likely to be important in CA1 during the second and third weeks postnatal. Cell-specific expression of NR1 splice variants undoubtedly contributes to functional diversity of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor properties in neuronal populations within the hippocampus. Developmental regulation of NR1 splicing is likely to influence synaptic plasticity and the formation of new synaptic contacts. Moreover, findings from this study suggest that a change in NR1 splicing following a neurological injury could significantly alter glutamate pathogenicity in a particular population of cells.
We have previously found that alcohol withdrawal aggravates the neuronal cell loss induced by chronic alcohol consumption in the rat hippocampal formation. We have also shown that intracerebral grafts of immature hippocampal tissue could reverse the progressive degeneration that occurs during this withdrawal. Furthermore, we have shown that chronic alcohol consumption reduces the areal density of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons and the density of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive fibres in the hippocampal formation. Thus, we thought it would be of interest to investigate the effects of alcohol withdrawal in the hippocampal cholinergic innervation and to determine whether the intracerebral grafting of immature hippocampal tissue would have beneficial effects upon the cholinergic system in this condition. Choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive fibres and perikarya were analysed in 14-month-old control, alcohol-fed, withdrawal and withdrawal-grafted groups of rats. The areal density of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons was reduced in all experimental groups when compared to controls. The density of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive fibres was lower in the alcohol-fed and withdrawal groups than in the control and withdrawal-grafted groups. We conclude that the grafted tissue probably produced neurotrophic factors which allowed a recovery of the hippocampal cholinergic fibre network. This recovery might be of importance to reverse the cognitive dysfunction described after chronic alcohol consumption and withdrawal.
We recently reported that serotonin excites a subpopulation of GABAergic neurons in the rat medial septum/diagonal band of Broca complex via multiple serotonin receptors, including the serotonin2A subtype. Since a subpopulation of medial septum/diagonal band GABAergic neurons projects to the hippocampus, in the present study we tested the effect of serotonin on antidromically-activated septohippocampal neurons using extracellular recordings. Bath-applied serotonin had an excitatory effect in a majority of septohippocampal neurons; serotonin-excited septohippocampal neurons had a mean conduction velocity -1.63 +/- 0.07 m/s (n=101). Pharmacologically, MDL 100,907, a selective serotonin2A antagonist blocked the excitatory effect of serotonin in 78% of septohippocampal neurons tested, with a mean pA2 of 8.51 +/- 0.12 (n=22). Additionally, the atypical antipsychotics risperidone and clozapine but not the typical antipsychotic haloperidol, blocked the excitatory effects of serotonin at clinically relevant concentrations. The pA2 values of 8.84 +/- 0.11, 6.57 +/- 0.13 and 5.94 +/- 0.27 for risperidone, clozapine and haloperidol, respectively, obtained in the present study, give a rank order of potency risperidone (1.6 nM) clozapine (269 nM) haloperidol (1.1 microM) which corresponds to that reported in binding studies. Additionally, in whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, risperidone (10 nM) blocked serotonin-induced increase in GABAergic synaptic currents. In conclusion, serotonin excites septohippocampal neurons primarily via the serotonin2A receptor and atypical antipsychotics block this excitation at clinically relevant concentrations.
Expression of apolipoprotein D, a member of the lipocalin superfamily of transporter proteins, was investigated in the kainic acid-lesioned rat hippocampus. Using an anti-rat apolipoprotein D antibody and biotin avidin-enhanced immunocytochemistry, in the normal rat hippocampus there was little apolipoprotein D expression, that was restricted mainly to scattered astrocytes. By contrast, kainic acid-injected rats showed apolipoprotein D immunoreactivity in the pyramidal neurons of the affected CA fields 24-48 h after injection of the excitotoxin, at a time when there was no histological evidence of cell death. Apolipoprotein D immunoreactivity peaked by day 3, coincident with neuronal cell death, and declined thereafter, reaching very low levels by day 7. Besides pyramidal neurons, apolipoprotein D immunoreactivity was also observed in a small number of reactive glial cells in the affected CA fields, but not in the vascular compartments at any time-point. In contrast to the neuronal expression of apolipoprotein D, apolipoprotein E immunoreactivity was observed predominantly in degenerating astrocytes. In conclusion, following excitotoxic injury with kainic acid, apolipoprotein D is expressed in hippocampal pyramidal neurons destined for subsequent cell death.
Some glutamatergic synapses in the mammalian central nervous system exhibit high levels of free ionic zinc in their synaptic vesicles. The precise role of this vesicular zinc remains obscure, despite suggestive evidence for zinc as a neuromodulator. As a step towards elucidating the role of free zinc in the brain we have developed a method for imaging zinc release in live brain slices. A newly synthesized zinc-sensitive fluorescent probe, N-(6-methoxy-8-quinolyl)-p-carboxybenzoylsulphonamide (TFLZn), was used to monitor intracellular zinc in live rat hippocampal slices. The dye loaded into the zinc-rich synaptic vesicles of the mossy fibre terminals in the hippocampal formation. Direct electrical stimulation of the mossy fibre pathway diminished the fluorescence in the mossy fibre terminals, consistent with a stimulus-dependent zinc release. The synaptic release of zinc was followed by the rapid replenishment of the zinc levels in vesicles from an as yet unidentified intracellular zinc source. Furthermore, we present evidence that zinc may play a role in a form of long-term potentiation exhibited by the mossy fibre pathway.
Hippocampal long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission is the primary experimental model of learning and memory in the vertebrate brain. However, the detailed intracellular mechanisms giving rise to this persistent increase in synaptic efficacy remain incompletely understood. Mevalonic acid constitutes the basic precursor not only for cholesterol, dolichol and ubichinone but also for farnesyl-pyrophosphate and geranylgeranylpyrophosphate, which are required for post-translational modification of proteins. We have used the specific 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase inhibitor, compactin, to examine the role of isoprenoid metabolism for long-term potentiation in rat hippocampal slices. Compactin was applied at a concentration of 25 microM for 70 min before and during tetanization and the orthodromic population spike amplitude and field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded from CA1 pyramidal cells. Compactin had no effect on the initial tetanization. However, compactin-treated slices were not able to maintain long-term potentiation for more than 60 min and population spike as well as field excitatory postsynaptic potentiation returned to basal levels after 120 min. When the slices were retetanized after 180 min, an almost full potentiation of the population spike and an only partial potentiation of the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were observed. These results suggest an essential role of isoprenoid intermediates for maintenance of hippocampal long-term potentiation.
The messenger RNAs encoding proteins of the exocytotic machinery were measured at different times following the induction of long-term potentiation or increasing neuronal activity in the dentate gyrus of the rat in vivo. In situ hybridization revealed that from the many messenger RNAs that encode proteins involved in regulated exocytosis, only those encoding synapsin I and syntaxin 1B were specifically increased. The levels of messenger RNA encoding both synapsin I and syntaxin 1B were increased on the ipsilateral side of the dorsal dentate gyrus 2 and 5 h following the induction of long-term potentiation. Syntaxin 1B was also increased in the ventral dentate gyrus at the same time-points. On the contralateral side of the dentate gyrus there was an increase in both synapsin I and syntaxin 1B at 5 h only. All of these long-term potentiation-induced changes were prevented when the tetanus was delivered in the presence of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. (D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid. Immunocytochemical staining revealed that protein levels for both synapsin I and syntaxin 1B were elevated in the mossy fibre terminal zone of CA3 5 h after the induction of long-term potentiation. In addition to these plasticity-induced changes, a transient increase in the messenger RNA encoding syntaxin 1B was observed at 2 h in conditions of high intensity stimulation of the perforant path to increase the level of cellular activation, but this change was not maintained even when high intensity stimulation was sustained for 5 h. No changes in either of the messenger RNAs were observed under low frequency stimulation and pseudotetanus at either time-points. These results show that an overall increase in neuronal excitation within a neuronal network can be differentiated from a change in synaptic strength at a specific subset of the synapses, where only synaptic plasticity leads to long-term changes in the expression of selective members of the exocytotic machinery. Altered concentrations of key vesicle proteins may thus provide the means for modulation of neurotransmitter release over long time-periods. The persistent long-term potentiation-induced postsynaptic increase in messenger RNAs encoding these presynaptic proteins has important implications for the propagation of signals downstream from the site of long-term potentiation induction in hippocampal neural networks, and highlights a candidate molecular mechanism for mediating the propagation of synaptic plasticity in such networks.
Dopamine plays a key role in the control of motor and cognitive functions through the interaction with membrane receptors. Dopamine elicits its physiological effect by interacting with receptors that belong to the seven transmembrane domain G-protein-coupled receptors family. Pharmacological and structural analyses have allowed the division of these receptors into two classes: the D1- and D2-like receptors. The D1-like subfamily comprises D1 and D5 while the D2-like is formed by D2, D3 and D4. Dopaminergic neurons arise from the ventral tegmental area and the substantia nigra. These neurons give rise to four dopaminergic pathways: the nigrostriatal, the mesolimbic, the mesocortical and tuberoinfundibular pathways. These pathways are involved in the control of movement, learning, motivation reward and hormone synthesis and release. Dysfunction in these pathways leads to neurological, psychiatric and endocrine disorders. Indeed, degeneration of the nigrostriatal pathway leads to Parkinson's disease in humans, characterized by a strong reduction of released dopamine. Thus, a fine tuning of the firing discharge of dopaminergic neurons is a key function in the regulation of dopamine mediated activities in the central nervous system. Somatodendritic dopaminergic autoreceptors of the D2-like family are responsible for such a function. However, it is still controversial whether this function could be ascribed only to one or more members of this subfamily.
Long-term depression together with long-term potentiation represent popular experimental models to study synaptic plasticity. However, analyses of the mechanisms underlying the expression of cortical long-term depression are in their infancy and have been confined to the hippocampus. Short- and long-term depression in neocortex is not well understood. Here we recorded small excitatory postsynaptic potentials intracellularly from rat visual cortex slices. The responses fluctuated between several amplitude levels suggesting a quantal nature of the synaptic transmission. Consistent changes in the quantal steps accompanied neither paired-pulse depression (50 ms interval within the pair) nor long-term depression (induced by 1 Hz, 5 min stimulation). The amplitude distributions shifted to smaller values suggesting decreases in the number of quanta released without essential changes in the postsynaptic quantal efficiency. Both the coefficient of variation of response amplitudes and the number of response failures increased; cases were encountered suggesting a very low release probability after depression. Changes in quantal content estimated from the deconvolution analysis were correlated with the magnitude of depression. The findings suggest predominantly presynaptic loci for expression of short- and long-term neocortical depressions. The likely underlying mechanism is a decrease in transmitter release probability. Long-term depression decreased the probability so strongly that some inputs became virtually silent.
Using a non-linear dynamic model based on the lambda version of the equilibrium-point hypothesis, we investigated the shape and duration of the control patterns underlying discrete elbow movements. The model incorporates neural control variables, time-, position- and velocity-dependent intrinsic muscle and reflex properties. Two control variables (R and C) specify a positional frame of reference for activation of flexor and extensor motoneurons. The variable R (reciprocal command) specifies the referent joint angle (R) at which the transition of net flexor to extensor active torque or vice versa can be observed during changes in the actual joint angle elicited by an external force. The variable C (coactivation command) surrounds the transition angle by an angular range in which flexor and extensor muscles may be simultaneously active (if C &gt; 0) or silent (if C &lt; or = 0). An additional, time-dimensional control variable (mu command) influences the dependency of the threshold of the stretch reflex on movement velocity. This control variable is responsible for the reflex damping. Changes in the R command result in shifts in the equilibrium state of the system, a dynamical process leading to electromyographic modifications and movement production. Commands C and mu provide movement stability and effective energy dissipation preventing oscillations at the end of movement. A comparison of empirical and model data was carried out. A monotonic ramp-shaped pattern of the R command can account for the empirical kinematic and electromyographic patterns of the fastest elbow flexion movements made with or without additional inertia, as well as of self-paced movements. The rate of the shifts used in simulation was different for the three types of movements but independent of movement distance (20-80 degrees). This implies that, for a given type of movement, the distance is encoded by the duration of shift in the equilibrium state. The model also reproduces the kinematic and electromyographic patterns of the fastest uncorrected movements opposed in random trials by a high load (80-90% of the maximal) generated by position feedback to a torque motor. The following perturbation effects were simulated: a substantial decrease in the arm displacement (from 60-70 degrees to 5-15 degrees) and movement duration (to about 100 ms) so that these movements ended near the peak velocity of those which were not perturbed; a prolongation of the first agonist electromyographic burst as long as the load was applied; the suppression of the antagonist burst during the dynamic and static phases of movements: the reappearance of the antagonist burst in response to unloading accompanied by a short-latency suppression of agonist activity. These kinematic and electromyographic features of both perturbed and non-perturbed movements were reproduced by using the same control patterns which elicited a monotonic shift in the equilibrium state of the system ending before the peak velocity of non-perturbed movements. Our results suggest that the neural control processes underlying the fastest unopposed changes in the arm position are completed long before the end of the movement and phasic electromyographic activity. Neither the timing nor the amplitude of electromyographic bursts are planned but rather they represent the long-lasting dynamic response of central, reflex and mechanical components of the system to a monotonic, short-duration shift in the system's equilibrium state.
Synaptobrevin, SNAP-25 and syntaxin (SNAP receptor proteins) are molecular components that play a key role in the exocytotic machinery of synaptic vesicles. Their presence, distribution and interactions are reported in central and peripheral nervous systems of the electric fish Torpedo marmorata. These three proteins form a protein complex in all the nervous system regions tested, including the electric lobe and the electric organ which is innervated by pure cholinergic nerve terminals. Immunoblot analysis revealed a double protein pattern of SNAP-25 in the anterior brain and cerebellum, although a single protein band corresponding to SNAP-25 was observed in the electromotor system. Moreover, SNAP-25 showed a differential distribution in the electromotor system. It was present along nerve fibres and terminals that innervated the electric organ but it was not detected in nerve terminals at the electric lobe. Immunoisolation experiments using anti-synaptobrevin antibodies showed a tissue-specific co-existence of SNAP-25 and syntaxin with synaptobrevin in the immunoisolated organelles. In conclusion, the molecular components of the exocytotic machinery are shown to be conserved in Torpedo, although some differences mainly on SNAP-25, suggest a potential diversity in the regulation of neurosecretion.
Intracellular calcium levels ([Ca2+]i) during and following electrical activity of the neuroendocrine caudodorsal cells of the pond snail (Lymnaea stagnalis) were measured in situ and in dissociated cells by combining electrical recordings and Fura-2 measurements. Caudodorsal cells are typical neuroendocrine cells that control egg laying via the release of a set of peptides during a stereotyped discharge of action potentials. Single action potentials or short trains of spikes in dissociated caudodorsal cells induced only small but consistent increases in [Ca2+]i. With longer or repeated spike trains, larger [Ca2+]i transients were measured, indicating accumulation of calcium. The calcium channel blocker Ni2+ suppressed the calcium elevation, suggesting that calcium influx occurred through voltage-activated calcium channels. Calcium levels in caudodorsal cells in situ were measured before, during and after the stereotyped firing pattern, a approximately 35-min discharge of regular spiking. Basal calcium levels in caudodorsal cells in situ were about 125 nM. During the initial phase of the discharge, the intracellular calcium level increased to approximately 250 nM. Maximal calcium levels (300-600 nM) were only reached at the final phase of the discharge or several minutes after the cessation of firing. Calcium levels remained elevated for up to 1 h after the end of the discharge. During this time, caudodorsal cells were characterized by very low excitability. We suggest that the prolonged, elevated level of calcium following the discharge need not be directly dependent on action potentials. The long-lasting [Ca2+]i elevation may cause the release of neuropeptides to outlast the duration of electrical activity, thus uncoupling release from spiking. In addition, it may cause reduced excitability of neuroendocrine cells following a period of spiking, thereby inducing a refractory period.
The aim of this study was to resolve the temporal relationships of the triple excitation of the circular muscle of guinea-pig colon that occurs in response to activation of the intrinsic excitatory nerves by using atropine and tachykinin NK1 and NK2 receptor selective antagonists to define the relative contribution of the transmitters involved. In organ bath experiments, performed in the presence of blockers of inhibitory innervation, a train of electrical pulses at 5 Hz for 300 s produced a sustained contraction of the circular muscle of guinea-pig colon: the sequential addition of atropine (1 microM), of the tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist, SR 140333 (0.3 microM) and of the tachykinin NK2 receptor antagonist, MEN 11420 (1 microM) produced a cumulative inhibitory effect and progressively delayed the onset of the contractile response to nerve stimulation. In the presence of peptidase inhibitors, atropine was less effective in inhibiting the contractile response for prolonged periods of stimulation: however, the pattern of inhibition of the evoked response produced by the sequential addition of blocker drugs was not substantially affected. The selective tachykinin NK3 receptor agonist, senktide, produced a concentration-dependent contraction of guinea-pig colon. The sequential addition of atropine (1 microM), SR 140333 (0.3 microM) and MEN 11420 (1 microM) reproduced the effect of the same drugs on the response to electrical nerve stimulation. The peptide blocker of N-type voltage-dependent calcium channels, omega-conotoxin (0.1 microM) produced a partial inhibitory effect of the response to senktide. The omega-conotoxin-resistant response to 1 microM senktide was inhibited and delayed by the progressive application of atropine, SR 140333 and MEN 11420, similar to the effect observed in the absence of omega-conotoxin. In sucrose gap, single-pulse electrical field stimulation produced a fast excitatory junction potential which was largely (90%) inhibited by atropine; application of a low concentration of the potassium channel blocker, 4-aminopyridine (30 microM), markedly enhanced the atropine-resistant excitatory junction potential which was abolished by the NK1 receptor antagonist, GR 82334. We conclude that, during prolonged electrical or chemical stimulation of excitatory motorneurons, there is a sequential, time-dependent activation of the three excitatory mechanisms in the circular muscle of guinea-pig colon: the pattern of activation is relatively independent of the intensity of stimulation and/or the mechanisms of secretion of released transmitters. Postjunctional factors predominate in determining the relative contribution of the three transmitters, acetylcholine, substance P and neurokinin A, in producing excitation of the circular muscle.
Iron dysregulation in the brain is thought to contribute to the oxidative damage seen in neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. A role for iron in the oxidative stress thought to contribute to normal ageing is less certain. To better characterize the role of iron in normal ageing, the concentrations of iron, transferrin, ferritin, and protein carbonyl groups are measured in nine separate regions of Fischer 344 rats. The largest (approximately 30%) age-related increases in brain iron concentration are seen in the temporal cortex, medial septum, and cerebellum. Ferritin concentration in these same brain regions increases 50 to 250% with age, while protein carbonyl concentration is only -27 to +4%, of young rats. These results indicate that an increase in the major iron-binding protein ferritin compensates for any age-related increase in iron concentration, and suggest that the increased ferritin is cytoprotective, serving to prevent the accumulation of protein carbonyl groups (a principal product of metal-catalysed oxidation of proteins).
We studied whether interactions between the presynaptic histamine H3 and prostaglandin EP3 receptors on the noradrenergic neurons of the mouse brain cortex occur. Cerebral cortex slices from the mouse (and, in few experiments, from the rat) were preincubated with [3H]noradrenaline and then superfused with a physiological salt solution. Tritium overflow was evoked electrically, either at 0.3 or 3 Hz (2 min) (standard stimulation protocol) or at 100 Hz (eight pulses) (stimulation protocol under which almost no activation of the presynaptic alpha2-adrenoceptors by endogenous noradrenaline occurs). In another set of experiments, Ca2+ ions were introduced into Ca2+-free K+-rich medium containing tetrodotoxin to evoke tritium overflow. The electrically-evoked tritium overflow (0.3 Hz) was inhibited by histamine or the H3 receptor agonist imetit, acting via H3 receptors. and by prostaglandin E2 or the EP3 receptor agonist sulprostone, acting via EP3 receptors. When histamine or imetit was given first (at concentrations causing the maximum effect at H3 receptors), the effect of prostaglandin E2 on the evoked tritium overflow was attenuated by 5-10%. When prostaglandin E2 or sulprostone was given first (at concentrations causing the maximum effect at EP3 receptors), the effect of histamine or imetit on the evoked overflow was attenuated by almost 50%. The previous administration of prostaglandin E2 also blunted the effect of histamine on the evoked tritium overflow evoked at 3 Hz; the degree of attenuation was identical when the current strength was 25 mA or was increased to 100 or 200 mA in order to partially compensate for the inhibitory effect of prostaglandin E2 on the evoked overflow. In addition, prostaglandin E2 attenuated the effect of histamine when tritium overflow was evoked (i) by 100 Hz, eight pulses or (ii) by Ca2+ ions or (iii) when rat (instead of mouse) brain cortex slices were used. An interaction of prostaglandin E2 or sulprostone with the H3 receptor recognition site could be excluded since both prostanoids did not affect the specific binding of the H3 agonist radioligand [3H]N(alpha)-methylhistamine to rat brain cortex membranes. In conclusion, mutual interactions occur between the presynaptic H3 and EP3 receptors involved in the inhibition of noradrenaline release in the mouse brain cortex. Pre-activation of the H3 receptor slightly attenuates the EP3 receptor-mediated effect whereas pre-activation of the EP3 receptor more markedly attenuates the H3 receptor-mediated effect. The interactions may occur between the receptors themselves or at a step behind the receptors (e.g., at the level of G proteins). The physiological significance of these interactions may be to limit the total extent of inhibition of noradrenaline release in a scenario under which both receptors are activated simultaneously.
Neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity was localized to sympathetic preganglionic neurons of the intermediolateral cell column and cyclic GMP immunoreactivity to nerve fibers projecting into the intermediolateral cell column of 20-25-day-old rats. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from sympathetic preganglionic neurons in spinal cord slices of immature rats and the role of nitric oxide and cyclic GMP on excitatory postsynaptic currents was studied. Superfusing the slices with the nitric oxide precursor L-arginine (300 microM) increased the amplitude of evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents as well as the frequency of spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents in some neurons from minutes to over 1 h. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(W)-nitro-L-arginine (100 microM) and the nitric oxide scavenger hemoglobin (100 microM) antagonized the potentiating effect of L-arginine. The nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside (100 microM) potentiated the synaptic currents in a manner similar to that of L-arginine and this effect was blocked by hemoglobin. The membrane-permeable cyclic GMP analogue dibutyryl guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (350 microM), in the presence of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (750 microM), potentiated the evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents and increased the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents; these effects were not prevented by hemoglobin. The results indicate that nitric oxide may facilitate the release of excitatory transmitters, possibly through a presynaptic cyclic GMP-dependent mechanism.
There is considerable evidence to suggest that the activity of forebrain and mesopontine cholinergic neurons is intimately involved in electroencephalographic arousal. Furthermore, our previous in vitro investigation suggested that both cholinergic systems are under a powerful tonic inhibitory control by endogenous adenosine. We thus examined the in vivo effect, on electrographically defined behavioral states, of microdialysis perfusion of adenosine into the cholinergic zones of the substantia innominata of the basal forebrain and the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus of freely moving cats. Localized perfusion of adenosine into either the basal forebrain or the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus caused a marked alteration in sleep-wake architecture. Adenosine (300 microM) perfused into either the basal forebrain or laterodorsal tegmental nucleus produced a dramatic decrease in waking, to about 50% of the basal level. Perfusion into the basal forebrain resulted in a significant increase in rapid eye movement sleep, while slow wave sleep was unchanged. In contrast, adenosine perfusion into the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus produced an increase of both slow wave sleep and rapid eye movement sleep, the magnitude of which were proportional to the decrease in waking. Electroencephalographic power spectral analysis showed that adenosine perfusion into the basal forebrain increased the relative power in the delta frequency band, whereas higher frequency bands (theta, alpha, beta and gamma) showed a decrease. These data strongly support the hypothesis that adenosine might play a key role as an endogenous modulator of wakefulness and sleep. The decrease in wakefulness may be directly related to the inhibition of cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain and the laterodorsal tegmentum. The increase in rapid eye movement sleep is a novel but robust effect whose origin, at present, is uncertain. The observation that local perfusion of adenosine into either the basal forebrain or the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus dramatically decreases wakefulness suggests that these areas might represent a major site of action of the xanthine stimulants (adenosine antagonists) found in coffee and tea.
Heterologous expression studies employing mammalian cell tissue culture techniques and in vivo studies of lower eukaryotes suggest that G-protein coupled receptors may play critical roles in regulating early stages of vertebrate nervous system development. Previous work suggests that H218, a rat G-protein coupled receptor homolog, could serve such a role. Most importantly, northern blot data indicate that whole brain H218 mRNA levels are highest during embryogenesis. In the present studies we raised, affinity-purified and characterized several anti-H218, polyclonal antisera and immunohistochemically mapped the expression of H218 during the early stages of rat embryonic nervous system development. The resulting data indicate that H218 is preferentially expressed in young, differentiating neuronal cell bodies and axons. Moreover, the expression is temporally regulated such that highest H218 levels are found in neuronal cell bodies during their early stages of differentiation and in axons during their outgrowth. Therefore, we propose that H218 signal transduction may widely participate in the regulation of some of the first steps in neuronal differentiation including axon outgrowth.
Dopamine content in the amphibian olfactory bulb is supplied by interneurons scattered among mitral cells in the external plexiform/mitral cell layer. In mammals, dopamine has been found to be involved in various aspects of bulbar information processing by influencing mitral cell odour responsiveness. Dopamine action in the bulb depends directly on the localization of its receptor targets, found to be mainly of the D2 type in mammals. The present study assessed, in the frog, both the anatomical localization of D2-like, radioligand-labelled receptors of dopamine and the in vivo action of dopamine on unitary mitral cell activity in response to odours delivered over a wide range of concentrations. The [125I]iodosulpride-labelled D2 binding sites were visualized on frozen sagittal sections of frog brains by film radioautography. The sites were found to be restricted to the external plexiform/mitral cell layer; other layers of the olfactory bulb were devoid of specific labelling. Electrophysiological recordings of mitral unit activity revealed that dopamine or its agonist apomorphine induced a drastic reduction of spontaneous firing rate of mitral cells in most cases without altering odour intensity coding properties of these cells. Moreover, pre-treatment with the D2 antagonist eticlopride blocked the dopamine-induced reduction of mitral cell spontaneous activity. In the frog olfactory bulb, both anatomical localization of D2-like receptors and functional data on dopamine involvement in information processing differ from those reported in mammals. This suggests a phylogenetic evolution of dopamine action in the olfactory bulb. In the frog, anatomical data perfectly corroborate electrophysiological results, together strongly suggesting a direct action of dopamine on mitral cells. In a physiologically operating system, such an action would result in a global improvement of signal-to-noise ratio.
Agrin is an extracellular matrix protein involved in the formation of the postsynaptic apparatus of the neuromuscular junction. In addition to spinal motor neurons, agrin is expressed by many other neuronal populations throughout the nervous system. Agrin's role outside of the neuromuscular junction, however, is poorly understood. Here we use the polymerase chain reaction to examine expression and alternative splicing of agrin in mouse somatosensory cortex during early postnatal development in vivo and in dissociated cell culture. Peak levels of agrin gene expression in developing cortex coincide with ingrowth of thalamic afferent fibres and formation of thalamocortical and intracortical synapses. Analysis of alternatively spliced agrin messenger RNA variants shows that greater than 95% of all agrin in developing and adult somatosensory cortex originates in neurons, including isoforms that have little or no activity in acetylcholine receptor aggregation assays. The levels of expression of &quot;active&quot; and &quot;inactive&quot; isoforms, however, are regulated during development. A similar pattern of agrin gene expression is also observed during a period when new synapses are being formed between somatosensory neurons growing in dissociated cell culture. Changes in agrin gene expression, observed both in vivo and in vitro, are consistent with a role for agrin in synapse formation in the central nervous system.
GABA(A) receptor activation in cerebellar granule cells induced a complex physiological response, namely the activation of a Cl- conductance in concert with a blockade of the resting K+ outward conductance (by 71% as compared to controls). Both responses were mediated by the activation of GABA(A) receptors, since they were both mimicked by the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol and antagonized by picrotoxin and bicuculline. A substantial decrease of the mean open time of single, outwardly rectifying K+ channels was triggered by GABA as revealed from cell-attached recordings; this finding implies that an intracellular pathway links GABA(A) receptors and K+ channels. Furthermore, this action of GABA is mediated through the cytoplasm, as experiments with the cell-attached patch-clamp technique show. GABA induced a prominent membrane depolarization ranging from 10 to 25 mV as revealed by current-clamp recordings of gramicidin (or nystatin) permeabilized patches, thus selecting conditions not to perturb the physiological Cl- gradient across the cell. Our findings imply that the GABA-activated Cl- current depolarized the membrane as described for immature neurons. The blockade of the resting K+ channel conductance acts in concert and both mechanisms lead to this substantial depolarizing event.
The effect of a single intravenous administration of ethanol (0.25-1.0 g/kg) on the spontaneous activity of putative serotonin neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus was studied in unanesthetized rats. Ethanol produced a slight but progressive decline in neuronal activity in 67% (six of nine) of all neurons tested. The remaining 33% (three of nine) were unresponsive. Upon withdrawal of chronic ethanol treatment (1-5 g/kg every 6 h for six consecutive days, 12 h from last ethanol administration), the mean firine rate of dorsal raphe neurons was found to be significantly reduced, by about 30% (n=71), as compared with the control group (n=83), whereas the cells/track index was unaltered. Under these conditions, ethanol administration further reduced firing rate in 67% (four of six) of all the neurons tested. In the remaining 33% (two of six), no response was observed. At 72 h after the last ethanol administration, the mean firing rate of dorsal raphe neurons was found to be within control values (n=90). Further, to evaluate the functional status of the autoreceptors under control conditions and after withdrawal from chronic ethanol, the selective serotonin-1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-(2-di-n-propylamino)tetralin was administered intravenously in cumulative doses (1-16 microg/kg) and dose-response curves were generated for both groups. Autoreceptor sensitivity of dorsal raphe neurons was found to be not statistically different in control and ethanol withdrawn rats (n=6 for both groups) as indexed by a similar potency displayed by 8-hydroxy-(2-di-n-propylamino)tetralin in reducing the spontaneous activity of dorsal raphe neurons. The results indicate that, in spite of the widespread use of serotonin transmission potentiating agents in the treatment of alcoholism, neither acute nor withdrawal from chronic ethanol administration produces drastic effects on dorsal raphe neurons. However, the inhibition of dorsal raphe neuronal activity after acute ethanol may be due to the reported ability of ethanol to increase serotonin release from terminal areas. This increased serotonin tone could, at the level of recurrent axon collaterals in the dorsal raphe nucleus, reduce the spontaneous activity of the cells. On the other hand, a similar reduction in spontaneous activity after withdrawal from ethanol correlates well with the reduction in serotonin levels observed under these conditions in microdialysis studies.
Serotonin has been hypothesized to play an important role in the central control of motor function. Consistent with this hypothesis, virtually all serotonergic neurons within the medullary nuclei raphe obscurus and raphe pallidus in cats are activated in response to specific motor challenges. To determine whether the response profile of serotonergic neurons in the midbrain is similar to that observed in the medulla, the single-unit activity of serotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus cells was studied during three specific motor activities: treadmill-induced locomotion, hypercarbia-induced ventilatory response and spontaneous feeding. In contrast to the results obtained for medullary raphe cells, none of the serotonergic dorsal raphe cells studied (n=26) demonstrated increased firing during treadmill-induced locomotion. A subset of serotonergic dorsal raphe cells (8/36) responded to the hypercarbic ventilatory challenge with increased firing rates that were directly related to the fraction of inspired carbon dioxide, and a non-overlapping subset of cells (6/31) was activated during feeding. All feeding-on cells demonstrated a rapid activation and de-activation coincident with feeding onset and offset, respectively. Although the proportions of serotonergic cells activated by hypercarbia or feeding in the dorsal raphe nucleus were similar to those found in the medullary raphe, there were several major distinctions in the response characteristics for the two cell groups. In contrast to the medullary serotonergic neurons, only a minority of dorsal raphe nucleus serotonergic neurons responded to a motor challenge. Overall, the above results suggest very different roles for the midbrain and medullary serotonergic neurons in response to motor activities.
Nitric oxide is a labile gas which has been implicated in neuronal signalling. The enzyme responsible for the production of this molecule is present in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, yet a specific role for nitric oxide in neurotransmission within this nucleus remains unclear. Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from paraventricular nucleus neurons in a coronal hypothalamic slice, we have assessed the acute effects of nitric oxide on membrane potential and ionic conductance. Recordings were obtained from 78 neurons with a mean resting membrane potential of -57.8 +/- 0.6 mV and a mean input resistance of 972 +/- 146 M omega. Cells were electrophysiologically classified into Type I or Type II according to previously established criteria. Bath application of nitric oxide (delivered either as a gas dissolved in solution, or liberated from the donor compound, N-acetyl-S-nitroso-D-penicillamine) elicited reversible membrane depolarizations (3 mV) in 14 of the 19 Type II cells tested. These cells also exhibited a decrease in input resistance following nitric oxide application. Similar effects were observed in response to bath application of L-arginine, with 11 of 14 cells displaying depolarizations and accompanying decreases in input resistance. Inhibition of nitric oxide synthase abolished the responses to L-arginine (n=2). The nitric oxide effects persisted when voltage-activated Na+ channels were blocked by tetrodotoxin (n=6). The depolarizations observed in Type II cells were mimicked by bath application of a membrane permeable cyclic GMP analogue (8-bromo-cyclic GMP) (n=8). Furthermore, nitric oxide depolarizations were abolished by pre-treatment of the slice with the guanylate cyclase inhibitor, LY83583 (n=4). Type I cells did not depolarize in response to nitric oxide (n=11). It is concluded that nitric oxide specifically depolarizes parvocellular neurons within the paraventricular nucleus via a mechanism that requires activation of guanylate cyclase and subsequent production of cyclic GMP. These findings provide the first insight into the cellular mechanisms underlying the acute effects of nitric oxide on neurons in the paraventricular nucleus.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the existence and distribution of neuropeptide Y receptor subtypes in various regions of the normal human brain using the peptide YY derivative receptor probes, [125I][Leu31,Pro34]polypeptide YY/Y1 and [125I]polypeptide YY(3-36)/Y2, in addition to the non-selective ligand [125I]polypeptide YY. Membrane binding assays performed with post mortem frontal cortex homogenates revealed that [125I]polypeptide YY and [125I]polypeptide YY(3-36) bound in a time- and protein concentration-dependent manner. Very low amounts of specific [125I][Leu31,Pro34]polypeptide YY binding could be detected even in the presence of high amounts of protein, contrasting with results obtained with [125I]polypeptide YY and [125I]polypeptide YY(3-36), a preferential Y2 receptor probe. Analysis of saturation isotherms revealed that [125I]polypeptide YY(3-36) bound to a single class of high-affinity sites (0.5-2 nM). Significantly higher binding capacities were evident for [125I]polypeptide YY(3-36) as compared to [125I][Leu31,Pro34]polypeptide YY, suggesting that the human frontal cortex, in contrast to the rat, is mostly enriched with Y2 receptors. Ligand selectivity profile confirmed the hypothesis that polypeptide YY(3-36), neuropeptide Y and polypeptide YY but not the [Leu31,Pro34] derivatives are potent competitors of [125I]polypeptide YY and [125I]polypeptide YY(3-36) binding sites. Autoradiographic studies demonstrated further that cortical areas, as well as most other regions of the human brain, are particularly enriched with Y2/[125I]polypeptide YY(3-36) sites, while only low to very low amounts of Y1 binding were detected except in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation. In the human hypothalamus, a preponderance of Y2 binding sites was also noted. Taken together, these results clearly establish that the distribution of the Y1 and Y2 receptor subtypes in human is different from the rodent brain, the Y2 subtype being most abundant in the human brain.
Dendritic arborization permits convergence of synaptic inputs and their integration in single neurons. The granule neuron in the dentate gyrus represents a relatively simple example where anatomically and functionally distinct medial and lateral perforant pathways terminate on different regions of the dendritic tree. High-frequency stimulation of either pathway alone results in the induction of long-term potentiation. However, whether the potentiated synapses in different parts of the dendrites interact is not known. In this study we have compared long-term potentiation and synaptic interactions in the lateral and medial perforant pathways in the &quot;disinhibited&quot; hippocampal slice preparation in the presence of the GABA(A) receptor blocker bicuculline. The data show that the magnitude of long-term potentiation induced by tetanic stimulation was similar in both pathways, but differences between the two pathways were revealed after two or more tetanizations. A significantly smaller capacity for further long-term potentiation in the lateral, as compared to the medial, perforant pathway was found and can be attributed to stronger postsynaptic GABA(B) inhibition in distal dendrites of granule neurons. Blockade of GABA(B) inhibition with CGP36742 (100 microM) unmasked additional long-term potentiation in the lateral pathway. Presynaptically, GABA(B) receptors produced a short-lasting heterosynaptic depression in the medial pathway, which was reduced by CGP36742. Coincident activation of the two pathways boosted long-term potentiation only in the medial pathway. We propose that the interactions between the two pathways are orchestrated to maximize associative long-term potentiation in the medial pathway; this may be important for types of learning attributed to the hippocampus.
The distribution of the three subunits of neurofilaments was examined in the hippocampus of young adult rabbits (three months of age), employing a panel of six monoclonal antibodies. Thereafter, age-dependent and subunit-selective changes in neurofilament immunoreactivity in the ageing rabbit hippocampus were studied, using animals of one, three, six, 12, 24, 30, 36, 48, and 60 months. Principal cells, interneurons, axons, and various fibre systems were immunoreactive for all three subunits, although the localization and staining intensity of neurofilament immunoreactivity depended on the antibody used. Small cells immunopositive for the low subunit of neurofilament (presumably glial cells) were found abundantly in the hippocampal formation at one month, and (occasionally) at 30-36 months. Young rabbits (one to three months of age) had high numbers of interneurons stained for the high subunit of neurofilament in the stratum oriens/pyramidale. The number declined and plateaued to approximately 78% at six to 30 months, and further declined and plateaued to approximately 56% at 36-60 months. The first decline may reflect a process of maturation, while the latter decline most likely relates to ageing. Ageing pyramidal cells in 48-60 months animals revealed a slight increase for the low subunit of neurofilament, but no changes for the other subunits. Transient changes in neurofilament immunoreactivity were a striking observation in dentate gyrus granule cells during ageing. The staining intensity for the low subunit of neurofilament decreased gradually from one to 24-30 months until it was no longer detectable in these cells. The immunoreactivity then reappeared, most notably in granule cells lining the hilus, at the age of 36-48 months. By 60 months all granule cells were nearly immunonegative for this subunit. Axonal aberrations, immunoreactive for all three subunits, were found throughout the hippocampal formation. These aberrations first appeared in 24-month-old animals and increased in number and maximal size in older rabbits. The alterations in neurofilament immunoreactivity in the ageing hippocampus correlated with age-associated learning disabilities in the acquisition of a hippocampally-dependent learning task. The potential relevance of changes in the cytoskeletal profile of hippocampal neurons to age-associated learning and memory disabilities is discussed.
Long-term potentiation in the CA1 region is often evaluated as the change in the initial slope of the field response following a single test stimulus. This change is thought to represent an alteration of excitatory transmission only. However, it has recently been reported that this initial part of the field response is also controlled by a picrotoxin-resistant GABA(A)ergic response since bicuculline (100 microM), in the presence of picrotoxin, could lead to a substantial increase in the field response initial slope. A disinhibition may then be an important factor underlying expression of what is believed to be long-term potentiation of excitatory synaptic transmission. Alternatively, the bicuculline-induced field response enhancement could be due to an induction of long-term potentiation favoured by the low magnesium (1.25 mM) and high calcium (4 mM) concentrations used in these experiments. Results presented here show that neither picrotoxin (100 microM), nor bicuculline (100 microM), produce any significant change in field response initial slope, when examined using 4 mM magnesium and calcium in the perfusion fluid. In experiments using lower magnesium (1-1.5 mM), the same result was observed in most cases. In some cases, the field response following single test stimuli became temporally paired with spontaneous bursts of spike activity, and its initial slope became considerably enhanced (100%). Similar results could be provoked by a temporary increase in stimulus strength sufficient to evoke spike activity. This potentiation occluded a subsequent long-term potentiation induced by afferent tetanization, and it was not observed when a N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist was present in the perfusion solution. The present results suggest that the bicuculline-induced enhancement of the field response initial slope represents an induction of long-term potentiation rather than being a direct consequence of pharmacological blockade of a GABA(A)ergic process.
Chronic treatment with dopaminergic agonists is associated with response fluctuations to L-dihydroxyphenylalanine in Parkinson's disease and enhanced motor activity to D1 and D2 dopamine agonists in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway. In dopamine-depleted rodents this phenomenon has been referred to as &quot;priming&quot; or reverse tolerance. The neurochemical changes that underlie &quot;priming&quot; of dopaminergic agonist responses are poorly understood. Some aspects of priming of D1 agonist-mediated rotation in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat have been characterized, but priming of D2-agonist-dependent motor responses has been less thoroughly studied. In this study, examination of rotational behaviour and induction of Fos-like immunoreactivity were used to investigate changes in the striatal outflow systems in response to treatment with the D2 agonist quinpirole in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats that had been primed with apomorphine. Administration of apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg; three injections at three to six day intervals) permitted an otherwise inactive dose of quinpirole (0.25 mg/kg) to produce robust contralateral rotation and to induce the expression of Fos in striatal neurons belonging to the striato-nigro-entopeduncular (&quot;direct&quot;) pathway. The increase in contralateral rotation and ipsilateral striatal Fos expression following administration of quinpirole to apomorphine-primed rats was mediated by a D2-like receptor and did not appear to be due to a change in sensitivity of D2 receptors. Apomorphine priming also enhanced the ability of quinpirole to induce Fos expression in the globus pallidus, a target of the striatopallidal (&quot;indirect&quot;) pathway. Western blot analysis confirmed that treatment with quinpirole induced the expression of c-Fos protein with no change in the expression of 35-37,000 mol. wt Fos-related antigens in apomorphine-primed rats treated with water or quinpirole. Induction of Fos expression in the striatum generally results from blockade of D2 receptors and the striato-nigro-entopeduncular pathway preferentially expresses D1 receptors. Thus, the quinpirole-dependent induction of striatal Fos in apomorphine-primed 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats represents a qualitative alteration in striatal outflow. These studies demonstrate that pretreatment of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats with apomorphine increases the activity of the &quot;direct&quot; and &quot;indirect&quot; striatal outflow pathways in response to D2 receptor stimulation. These changes have the net result of enhancing thalamocortical activity and likely underlie the enhanced contralateral rotation produced by quinpirole in apomorphine-primed rats. Changes in striatal outflow, particularly in the striato-nigro-entopeduncular pathway, may contribute to alterations in D2-dependent motor responses observed after chronic dopaminergic stimulation in the dopamine-depleted striatum.
Embryonic striatal precursors grafted into the lesioned adult host striatum show limited integration with little migration and restricted efferent projections. In the present study, the influence of an immature striatal environment on the integrative capacity of grafted neuroblasts was examined after transplantation of striatal progenitors into the striatum at different stages of postnatal development. Mouse progenitors, derived from embryonic day 13.5-14 lateral or medial ganglionic eminence or the cerebellar primordium, were transplanted as a single cell suspension into the developing postnatal day 1, 7 and 21 rat striatum. The grafted cells and their axonal projections were visualized using antibodies raised against the mouse-specific neural markers, M6 and M2. Cells from the lateral (but not the medial) ganglionic eminence showed a remarkable capacity to innervate selectively the striatal target structures, globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra, reminiscent of endogenous striatal neurons, which is not observed after grafting into adult hosts. M6 and M2-immunopositive cellular profiles from both the lateral and medial ganglionic eminences were observed to have migrated extensively away from the injection site, in contrast to the cerebellar precursors which remained clustered at the implantation site. Cells from the lateral ganglionic eminence were largely confined within the striatal complex where they developed striatal characteristics, displaying expression of DARPP-32, the 32,000 mol. wt dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, whereas cells from the medial ganglionic eminence had migrated caudally along the internal capsule and were observed predominantly in the globus pallidus and thalamus, in addition to the striatum. The cells located outside the striatum were all DARPP-32 negative. The improved integration and increased projection capacity of the lateral ganglionic eminence precursors grafted into postnatal day 1 hosts gradually declined as the host advanced into later stages of development (postnatal day 7), and in postnatal day 21 hosts the grafted striatal precursors behaved similarly to grafts implanted into adult recipients. These results demonstrate the specific capacity of embryonic striatal progenitors to integrate into the developing basal ganglia circuitry during early postnatal development, and that the extent of neuronal and glial integration and graft host connectivity declines when the host has developed beyond the first postnatal week.
Impairment in energy metabolism is thought to be involved in the aetiology of Huntington's disease. In line with this hypothesis, chronic systemic administration of the mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid to rats and monkeys produces selective striatal lesions similar to Huntington's disease. The present study examined whether rats treated with varying regimen of 3-nitropropionic acid could present motor abnormalities reminiscent of Huntington's disease symptomatology, correlated with Huntington's disease specific striatal symptomatology. Subacute 3-nitropropionic acid treatment (15 mg/kg per day intraperitoneally for 10 days) produced dramatic motor symptoms associated with extensive neuronal loss and gliosis in the lateral striatum as well as severe hippocampal degeneration in 50% of the cases. In contrast, chronic 3-nitropropionic acid treatment (10 mg/kg per day subcutaneously for one month) led to more subtle excitotoxic-like lesions, selective for the dorsolateral striatum and more closely resembling Huntington's disease striatal pathology. Animals with these Huntington's disease-like lesions showed spontaneous motor symptoms including mild dystonia, bradykinesia and gait abnormalities, which were barely detectable on visual inspection but could be readily identified and quantified by computerized video analysis. In these chronic animals, the degree of striatal neuronal loss was significantly correlated with the severity of spontaneous motor abnormalities, as is the case in Huntington's disease. The present study demonstrates that chronic low-dose 3-nitropropionic acid treatment in rats results in a valuable model of both the histological features and motor deficits which occur in Huntington's disease. Despite the interanimal variability in terms of response to 3-nitropropionic acid treatment, this rat model may be particularly useful for evaluating the functional benefits of new therapeutic strategies for Huntington's disease, particularly those aiming to reduce the severity of motor symptoms.
The origin of both sleep and memory appears to be closely associated with the evolution of mechanisms of enhancement and maintenance of synaptic efficacy. The development of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity apparently was the first evolutionary adaptation of nervous systems beyond a capacity to respond to environmental stimuli by mere reflexive actions. After the origin of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, whereby single activations of synapses led to short-term efficacy enhancement, lengthy maintenance of enhancements probably was achieved by repetitive activations (&quot;dynamic stabilization&quot;). One source of selective pressure for the evolutionary origin of neurons and neural circuits with oscillatory firing capacities may have been a need for repetitive spontaneous activations to maintain synaptic efficacy in circuits that were in infrequent use. This process is referred to as &quot;non-utilitarian&quot; dynamic stabilization. Dynamic stabilization of synapses in &quot;simple&quot; invertebrates occurs primarily through frequent use. In complex, locomoting forms, it probably occurs through both frequent use and non-utilitarian activations during restful waking. With the evolution of increasing repertories and complexities of behavioral and sensory capabilities--with vision usually being the vastly pre-eminent sense brain complexity increased markedly. Accompanying the greater complexity, needs for storage and maintenance of hereditary and experiential information (memories) increased greatly. It is suggested that these increases led to conflicts between sensory input processing during restful waking and concomitant non-utilitarian dynamic stabilization of infrequently used memory circuits. The selective pressure for the origin of primitive sleep may have been a resulting need to achieve greater depression of central processing of sensory inputs largely complex visual information than occurs during restful waking. The electrical activities of the brain during sleep (aside from those that subserve autonomic activities) may function largely to maintain sleep and to dynamically stabilize infrequently used circuitry encoding memories. Sleep may not have been the only evolutionary adaptation to conflicts between dynamic stabilization and sensory input processing. In some ectothermic vertebrates, sleep may have been postponed or rendered unnecessary by a more readily effected means of resolution of the conflicts, namely, extensive retinal processing of visual information during restful waking. By this means, processing of visual information in central regions of the brain may have been maintained at a sufficiently low level to allow adequate concomitant dynamic stabilization. As endothermy evolved, the skeletal muscle hypotonia of primitive sleep may have become insufficient to prevent sleep-disrupting skeletal muscle contractions during non-utilitarian dynamic stabilization of motor circuitry at the accompanying higher body temperatures and metabolic rates. Selection against such disruption during dynamic stabilization of motor circuitry may have led to the inhibition of skeletal muscle tone during a portion of primitive sleep, the portion designated as rapid-eye-movement sleep. Many marine mammals that are active almost continuously engage only in unihemispheric non-rapid-eye-movement sleep. They apparently do not require rapid-eye-movement sleep and accompanying non-utilitarian dynamic stabilization of motor circuitry, because this circuitry is in virtually continuous use. Studies of hibernation by arctic ground squirrels suggest that each hour of sleep may stabilize brain synapses for as long as 4 h. Phasic irregularities in heart and respiratory rates during rapid-eye-movement sleep may be a consequence of superposition of dynamic stabilization of motor circuitry on the rhythmic autonomic control mechanisms. Some information encoded in circuitry being dynamically stabilized during sleep achieves unconscious awareness in authentic and var
Excitotoxicity has been proposed to contribute to neuronal loss in a broad spectrum of neurodegenerative conditions such as ischemia, hypoglycaemic coma or cerebral trauma. Excitotoxic neuronal injury appears to be mediated mainly by the over-activation of glutamate receptors, especially N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, with subsequent excessive Ca2+ influx. Concurrent with the activation of glutamate-gated ion channels, metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR), which are G-protein coupled receptors, are also expected to be activated. Excessive stimulation of phospholipase C-coupled mGluR, mGluR1 and mGluRS, has been suggested to have neurotoxic consequences. However, the contribution of mGluR activation on excitotoxicity is still unclear and controversial. Here we report that, following ischemic and excitotoxic brain injuries, inactivation of mGluR1 does not prevent excitotoxic neuronal damage. Given the evidence that agonists at this group of mGluR promoted neuronal death in cerebrocortical cultures after oxygen-glucose deprivation or after N-methyl-D-aspartate exposure, our findings suggest that mGluR-mediated excitotoxicity is unlikely associated with mGluR1 but rather with other PLC-coupled mGluR.
In order to elucidate the precise mechanisms underlying higher brain function, investigations need to focus not only on functionality of neuronal networks but also the underlying connectivity. Newly developed magnetic resonance (MR) techniques offer revolutional, non-invasive tools for both functionality and connectivity analysis in humans, namely, BOLD (blood oxygen level dependent) functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and three dimensional anisotropy contrast (3DAC) magnetic resonance axonograpy (MRX). The former technique makes use of changes in regional deoxyhemoglobin concentration associated with brain function, while the latter utilizes directional information of apparent diffusivity observed in axonal fibers. In these critically important but highly demanding imaging techniques, high-field (&gt; or = 3.OT) MR systems possess significant advantages over conventional systems.
N-Methylquipazine (2-[1-(4-methyl)-piperazinyl)quinoline)) was labelled with carbon-11 by reacting [11C]methyl iodide with the nor-compound, quipazine. Radiochemical conversions were 79 +/- 7%, based on the alkylating agent. The total synthesis time including purification was 40 to 45 min. N-[Methyl-11C]methylquipazine thus synthesized was &gt;99% radiochemically pure, and the specific activity ranged between 12-37 GBq/mumol. Dynamic imaging with PET was used to examine in vivo its distribution in rat and monkey. In rat the organ uptake at intermediate times was: liver &gt; heart &gt; whole brain &gt; or = lung &gt; extracerebral tissue. Brain uptake and wash-out were rapid: A maximum was reached in 2 to 3 min with subsequent decrease to approximately equal to 50% the peak value by 13 min. In monkey the tracer uptake was heterogeneous and high in regions known to contain 5-HT3 receptors but also in regions devoid of these receptors. Tissue kinetics were similar for all regions (initial rapid accumulation with tmax &lt; or = 7 min, followed by slow decrease with all regions approaching the level of the cerebellum at 30 to 35 min). Pretreating with quipazine significantly decreased only the ratio of uptake in the medulla oblongata compared to the cerebellum. Although the nonspecificity of its binding limits the usefulness of N-[methyl-11C]methylquipazine, both its kinetic behavior and the blocking results indicate that a more selective arylpiperazine might prove to be a more attractive tracer for PET studies of 5-HT3 receptors.
Extrastriatal D2-dopamine receptors can be visualised in the monkey and human brain using the benzamides [11C]- and [76Br]FLB 457 in PET and [123I]epidepride in SPECT but not with the salicylamide analogues [76Br]FLB 463 and [123I]NCQ 298. To clarify the background for the differences in binding seen in vivo, we have compared the in vitro binding of [125I]epidepride and [123I]NCQ 298, using human whole hemisphere autoradiography. The images obtained with any radioligand showed detailed distribution with very dense binding in the putamen and the caudate nucleus and with the same detailed extrastriatal distribution. Thus, the divergent results obtained in vivo cannot be explained by different binding properties of the extrastriatal receptors.
Substance P (SP) is released from primary afferent fibers in response to nociceptive stimuli. Capsaicin, which produces an initial hyperalgesic response followed by persistent antinociception, also elicits release of SP from primary afferent fibers. Capsaicin pretreatment decreases the content and release of SP from primary afferent fibers. This effect on SP has been hypothesized to mediate the antinociceptive effect of capsaicin. To test this hypothesis, mice were injected intrathecally (i.t.) with antinociceptive doses of capsaicin or SP(1-7) before superfusion of spinal cord tissue with 3 microM capsaicin 24, 48, 96 or 168 h later. N-terminal metabolic fragments of SP that accumulate after capsaicin-induced SP release and are involved in the antinociceptive effect of capsaicin, were also tested. Like capsaicin SP(1-3), SP(1-4) and SP(1-7) were each antinociceptive when injected 24 h before nociceptive testing. However, at this time there was no decrease in capsaicin-evoked release of SP in tissue from capsaicin- and SP(1-7)-pretreated animals compared to those injected with vehicle. In contrast, capsaicin-evoked SP release decreased significantly in tissue from mice pretreated with capsaicin or SP(1-7) 48 h prior to testing. D-Substance P(1-7), which prevents antinociception, blocked capsaicin- and SP(1-7)-induced decreases in SP release, indicating that these effects are mediated by SP N-terminal activity. Total spinal cord content of SP did not differ amongst treatment groups. These data indicate that antinociception does not appear to depend on decreases in SP release or content as antinociception precedes decreases in SP release.
The role of adenosine in the modulation of respiration-related neurons was examined using an in vitro brainstem-spinal cord preparation from neonatal rats (0-4 d old). Respiratory activity was recorded from the C4 or C5 ventral roots by suction electrodes and from inspiratory related neurons (I neurons) in the rostral ventrolateral medulla by microelectrodes. The following substances were added to the preparation superfusate, and their effect was evaluated: the adenosine A1 receptor agonist N6-(2-phenylisopropyl)adenosine, R(-)isomer (R-PIA), the adenosine uptake blocker dipyridamole, the adenosine receptor antagonist theophylline, and the specific A1 receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX). R-PIA and dipyridamole decreased the activity of I neurons and the C4 respiratory burst rate. Furthermore, these compounds induced a significantly more irregular respiratory rate in three-quarters of preparations from the youngest animals (&lt;48 h old) compared with that of controls. Theophylline or DPCPX reversed the effects of both R-PIA and dipyridamole on respiratory rate, regularity of respiratory rate, inspiratory time, amplitude, and intra-burst frequency of I neurons. Thus, adenosine depresses both the I neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla and the respiratory motor output. This depression of I neurons and respiratory rate can be abolished by theophylline primarily through a blockade of medullary adenosine A1 receptors. An age-dependent correlation of the effects of R-PIA and dipyridamole, with a more pronounced decrease in respiratory activity in preparations from younger animals, indicates that adenosinergic modulation of medullary respiration-related neurons changes during the first days of postnatal life.

This paper is a critique of fixed and progressive ratio schedules used to examine the neural substrates of cocaine reinforcement. The discussion focuses on problems encountered while examining the effects of neurotoxic lesions and pharmacological pretreatments on cocaine reinforcement. We review the theoretical and interpretational problems associated with the use of the fixed ratio (FR) schedules that have been used in the majority of studies, and we conclude that rate of drug intake cannot directly address the issue of increased or decreased reinforcer efficacy. The progressive ratio (PR) schedule offers some advantages over FR schedules, although it is now clear that the same implementation cannot be applied across all drug classes. It is likely that the motivation to self-administer psychostimulant vs. opiate drugs is qualitatively different. We conclude that there is no single schedule that can quantify all aspects of drug reinforcement and that behavioral paradigms will need to be adapted according to the particular question under study.
We investigated the coupling of the M2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells to activation of neuronal nitric oxide (NO) synthase. Stimulation of guanylate cyclase activity in detector neuroblastoma cells was used as an indirect measure of the generation of NO in Chinese hamster ovary cells. The muscarinic agonist carbachol induced marked time- and concentration-dependent enhancement of the activity of NO synthase. Activation of neuronal NO synthase by M2 muscarinic receptors was associated with a small increase in the concentration of intracellular Ca2+. These data suggest the presence of alternate mechanisms of activation of neuronal NO synthase which might be operative in the absence of large changes in the concentration of cellular Ca2+. These findings help to understand the mechanisms of activation of NO synthase.
The epitope of a monoclonal antibody specific for the alpha 2 isoform of the Na,K-ATPase was determined and its accessibility in native enzyme was examined. Protein fragmentation with N-chlorosuccinimide, formic acid, trypsin, and leucine aminopeptidase indicated binding near the Na,K-ATPase N-terminus but did not unambiguously delineate the extent of the epitope. The ability of the antibody to bind to denatured enzyme made it a good candidate for screening a random peptide library displayed on M13 phage, but the consensus sequence that emerged was not found in the Na,K-ATPase, Full-length cDNA for the Na,K-ATPase was randomly fragmented and cloned into beta-galactosidase to create a lambda gt11 expression library; screening with the antibody yielded a set of overlaps spanning 23 amino acids at the N-terminus. Chimeras of Na,K-ATPase alpha 1 and alpha 2 narrowed down the epitope to 14-19 amino acids. The antibody did not recognize fusion proteins constructed with shorter segments of this epitope. It did recognize a fusion protein containing the M13 library consensus sequence, however, indicating that this sequence, which is rich in proline and hydrophobic amino acids (FPPNFLFPPPP), was a mimotope. The natural epitope, unique to the Na,K-ATPase alpha 2 isoform, was GREYSPAATTAENG. Reconstitution of antibody binding in a foreign context such as M13 PIII protein or beta-galactosidase thus required a relatively large number of amino acids, indicating that antibody mapping approaches must allow for epitopes of significant size. The epitope was accessible in native enzyme and exposed on the cytoplasmic side, documenting the surface exposure of a stretch of amino acids at the N-terminus, where the Na,K-ATPase isoforms differ most.
The post-ictal prolactin (PRL) response represents one of the most consistent findings of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), but correlates variably with the gender of the patient, ECT stimulus waveform, dose and electrode placement. Forty patients with endogenous depression (29 drug-naive) received either high-energy (240 mC) or low-energy (60 mC) bilateral brief-pulse ECT once or three times a week. The PRL and growth hormone (GH) levels were estimated using double antibody radioimmunoassay. The average post-ECT PRL levels differed significantly from the pre-ECT levels, with a seven- to nine-fold increase in PRL at each week of treatment. No such difference was observed in the GH levels. All patients showed an increase in PRL levels, whereas 42% failed to show an increase in GH levels. The delta PRL response (difference between post-ECT and pre-ECT serum hormone levels) was not significantly different between the drug-naive and medicated patients nor between the high-energy and low-energy groups at first ECT. Similarly, no difference was observed between the once-weekly and thrice-weekly groups at the third week of ECT. At each week of treatment, the delta PRL was significantly higher in females than in males, unlike the GH response. Electroencephalographic (EEG) seizure duration did not correlate with either delta PRL or delta GH at first ECT and third week ECT. Apart from gender, none of the variables, such as age, baseline severity of illness, presence of psychotic symptoms, drug-naive status, stimulus dose, seizure duration, seizure strength, pattern and symmetry, frequency of ECT and degree of improvement predicted the delta PRL response. Neither stimulus energy nor frequency of ECT had a significant effect on PRL response. Gender differences in PRL response to ECT merit further investigations.
Endogenous opioids modulate attention-related bradycardiac responses evoked by novel stimuli and Pavlovian conditioned signals, and these effects are distinct from those of endogenous opioids on memory. We investigated the role of peripheral opioid receptors in modulating attention and Pavlovian learning, in rabbits tested for bradycardiac orienting responses to novel tones, and for Pavlovian conditioning and extinction of cardiac discrimination. Pretraining, IV treatment with the opiate antagonist naloxone-HCl (0.1-0.5 mg/kg) facilitated initial development of Pavlovian conditioned discrimination and delayed its later extinction, compared to saline vehicle, as previously observed. Pretraining treatment with its peripherally acting analog, quaternary naloxone-methiodide (1.29-6.47 mg/kg), also promoted initial development, but not extinction, of discrimination, and it reduced the magnitude of bradycardiac orienting responses and of tachycardiac unconditioned responses. Treatment with the selective mu-antagonist peptide CTOP (10-30 microg/kg) facilitated conditioned responses and reduced unconditioned responses, somewhat later during training, but it did not reliably affect extinction or orienting responses. These results confirm an important role of peripheral opioids in regulating attentional and associative functions involved in orienting and the earliest stage of Pavlovian learning, prior to development of central opioid regulation of later associative, hedonic and mnemonic functions. These findings also suggest that cardiovascular opioid receptors might mediate peripheral opioid influences on attention and early association formation, via modulation of cardiac responses to stimuli and autonomic sensory feedback to the brain.
In the present study we evaluated the effects of the 5-HT(1A) receptor partial agonist, buspirone hydrochloride and the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) on the elevated plus-maze. In addition, the ability of the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist, WAY 100635, to reverse the effects of both compounds was determined. 8-OH-DPAT (0.01 0.3 mg/kg, SC) dose-dependently increased the percent time on, and the number of entries to, the open arms of the maze. In a second experiment, WAY 100635 (0.003 0.3 mg/kg, SC) dose-dependently reversed the anxiolytic-like effects of 8-OH-DPAT (0.3 mg/kg, SC). In a third experiment, buspirone (0.3-4.0 mg/kg, SC) dose-dependently decreased the time spent on the open arms of the maze, indicating that it had anxiogenic-like effects. Buspirone also significantly decreased locomotor activity, which was evident in the decreases in the distance travelled on the open arms, closed arms and on the maze as a whole, the total number of arm entries and the mean speed of the animals. In contrast to its effects on 8-OH-DPAT-induced behaviours in the maze, WAY 100635 (0.003 1.0 mg/kg SC) failed to reverse any of the effects induced by buspirone. Animals treated with high doses of WAY 100635 (0.3 1.0 mg/kg SC) alone did not significantly differ from vehicle-treated animals on any of the measures recorded during elevated plus-maze trials. These data suggest that the anxiolytic-like effects of 8-OH-DPAT, but not the anxiogenic-like effects of buspirone, on the elevated plus-maze are mediated via 5-HT(1A) receptors in the CNS.
Gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB), a putative neurotransmitter or neuromodulator found in the mammalian brain, has been successfully used in clinical practice to alleviate both alcohol and opiate withdrawal symptoms. In the present study we used a conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm to investigate whether GHB possesses rewarding properties in rats. In order to exclude possible artifacts due to experimental design, we evaluated the possibility of a shift in preference when rats are conditioned either on their non-preferred side or on a randomly assigned side of conditioning. In both experiments GHB was seen to induce CPP. Although to date the physiological role of this compound still remains unclear, there is no doubt that GHB, further to its proven effect on alcohol and opiates, possesses rewarding properties of its own. The abuse liability afforded by this drug suggests the use of particular caution in handling GHB as a clinically useful drug.
ApolipoproteinE (ApoE) genotype has recently been identified as a major risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD) but the mechanism(s) by which ApoE isoforms influence this disease remain unclear. Recent studies suggest that mice deficient in ApoE may exhibit impaired central cholinergic function. Since this neurotransmitter system has traditionally been associated with the pathogenesis of AD, we have further investigated the impact of ApoE gene deletion on this system. Female ApoE knockout (ko) mice, age 12 months, were compared with wild type littermate controls using a range of behavioural, biochemical and histochemical techniques. Pre-treatment with the cholinomimetic, donepezil (E2020; 2.5-5 mg kg-1 IP), produced significant hypothermia and induction of tremor in both wild type and ApoE ko mice. The magnitude of change did not significantly differ between the groups. Cognitive testing in the Morris water maze revealed that both wild type and ApoE ko mice could learn the location of a hidden escape platform with similar rates of acquisition and accuracy. Similarly, the behaviour of both genotypes proved indistinguishable in a Y-maze spontaneous alteration procedure. The protocols used for both cognitive tests were then shown to be sensitive to the disruptive effects of scopolamine (but not scopolamine methyl bromide). Following behavioural testing, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity was measured in the hippocampus, frontal and entorhinal cortex and striatum. In each case there was no difference between the genotypes. In addition, coronal sections of striatum and anterior hippocampal regions of ApoE ko and wild type mice showed similar patterns of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) staining, with no qualitative or obvious quantitative difference. Finally, analysis of plasma cholesterol levels confirmed ApoE genotype. In conclusion, using a combination of behavioural, histochemical and biochemical measurements, we have failed to detect any significant differences in central cholinergic activity between wild type and ApoE ko mice.
Two operational measures of central information processing mechanisms are habituation and prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle response. Both measures can be assessed reliably in humans and other animals, and have been shown to be deficient in patients with schizophrenia. The three present experiments assessed the involvement of the serotonin1B (5-HT1B) receptor in modulating startle reactivity, habituation, and PPI by comparing 5-HT1B receptor gene knockout (5-HT1B knockout) with wild-type 129/Sv mice. In experiment I, female mice received saline, 2.0 mg/kg 5-methoxy-3(1,2,3,6)tetrahydropyridin-4-yl-1H-indole (RU24969), a 5-HT1A/1B agonist, and 1.0 mg/kg 8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), a selective 5-HT1A agonist. Female mice received saline, 10.0 mg/kg RU24969, and 5.0 mg/kg 8-OH-DPAT in experiment 2, and male mice received saline, 10.0 mg/kg RU24969, and 5.0 mg/kg 8-OH-DPAT in experiment 3. All three studies used identical within-subjects designs. Two phenotypic differences were observed following saline treatment: 5-HT1B knockout mice consistently exhibited a small increase in PPI that achieved significance in experiment 1; and 5-HT1B knockout male mice exhibited robust decreases in startle reactivity. Habituation was disrupted consistently by RU24969 in wild-type but not in 5-HT1B knockout mice, while 8-OH-DPAT had no effect on habituation. Consistent with the phenotypic difference in PPI, the high dose of RU24969 significantly and consistently reduced PPI in wild-type but not in 5-HT1B knockout mice. 8-OH-DPAT increased PPI in both wild-type and 5-HT1B knockout mice in every experiment. These findings suggest that 5-HT1B receptors modulate startle reactivity, habituation, and PPI in mice. Additionally, a potential species difference may exist in the behavioral effects of 5-HT1A receptor activation on PPI.
Human language is what it is because of its function and its implementation. We are far from understanding how language comprehension is carried out by the human brain. This task can be made easier by considering that evidence for the what and how of language comes from the study of linguistics, psychology, and neuroscience. The approach outlined herein describes how these different sources of evidence can be combined in studies of written and spoken sentence processing by using a measure of the brain's electrical activity. The outcome is a more temporally precise view of the analysis of language structures in our minds and brains.
Damage to the brain triggers a host of reactive responses in neurons and glia which are seen at sites of focal injury as well as at sites that are at a distance from the injury. Although many of these responses have been studied extensively, the signals that initiate the different responses have not been fully characterized, and it is still not understood how focal injury affects neurons and glia in distant sites. The present review summarizes recent findings that suggest that physiological events that occur at the time of the injury or during the early postlesion period can play an important and variable role in modulating neuronal and glial responses to injury. We focus on the events that occur in the hippocampal formation following unilateral lesions of the entorhinal cortex - a model system that has been used extensively for studies of cellular responses following focal brain injury. This lesion destroys the cells of origin of a massive excitatory projection to the dentate gyrus and hippocampus proper. Over time, the denervated neurons in the hippocampal formation are almost completely reinnervated as a result of local sprouting of systems that survive the lesion. Thus, this model system has been useful for studying cellular responses to both denervation and reinnervation. We summarize the information that this injury triggers physiological events that can strongly modulate gene expression in neurons and glia, including episodes of spreading depression that occur at the time of the injury, seizures that occur during the early postlesion period, the loss of afferent drive which leads to decreases in postsynaptic activity, and the restoration of activity that occurs in conjunction with reinnervation. We describe recent studies which suggest that some of these physiological events occur to a variable extent in different animals, especially the episodes of spreading depression and the recurrent seizures. Thus, the spatial pattern and temporal dynamics of altered gene expression following this &quot;model&quot; experimental injury may vary from animal to animal. The fact that physiological events strongly modulate the reactive changes in gene expression that occur following injury has important implications for understanding the sequelae of injury, and offers new opportunities for experimental and therapeutic interventions that may improve cellular repair, regeneration, and recovery of function.

The neurotransmitter transporter (NTT), a kind of glycoprotein situating on the presynaptic membrane, glial membrane, or vesicle membrane, has become the focusing point of neuroscience research in recent years. They could combine selectively with transmitters released into synaptic cleft and carry them back into cells to aid the termination of synaptic transmission. In this way, NTT took an important part in modulation of information between neurons. Study on NTT has not been reported domestically. This article reviewed recent studies on molecular structure, classification, study methods, distribution, function, modulating factors and gene modulation, focus of study and also unresolved problems of NTT.
The experimental studies on sleep deprivation were initiated by the Russian physician and scientist, Marie de Manacine, who studied sleep-deprived puppies kept in constant activity. She reported in 1894 that the complete absence of sleep was fatal in a few days, pointing out that the most severe lesions occurred in the brain. In 1898, the Italian physiologists Lamberto Daddi and Giulio Tarozzi also kept dogs awake by walking them; the animals died after 9-17 days, and their survival was unrelated to food consumption. In the histological study performed by Daddi, degenerative alterations, mainly represented by chromatolytic changes, were observed in neurons of the spinal ganglia, Purkinje cells of the cerebellum, and neurons of the frontal cortex. Daddi ascribed these changes to a state of autointoxication of the brain during insomnia. In 1898, the psychiatrist Cesare Agostini, interested in the psychic phenomena caused by prolonged insomnia in humans, sleep deprived dogs by keeping them in a metallic cage in order to avoid fatigue. The dogs survived about 2 weeks, and degenerative changes were observed in their brains. In these experimental paradigms, the effect of sleep loss was confounded by motor exhaustion and/or intense sensory stimulation. In spite of the absence of adequate controls, the pioneering studies performed at the end of the 19th century represented the first experimental attempts to relate sleep with neural centers and suggested that sleep is a vital function and that the brain may be affected by insomnia.




Recent evidence suggests that behavioral sensitization to amphetamine is associated with alterations in excitatory amino acid (EAA) transmission in perikarya (ventral tegmental area) and terminal regions (nucleus accumbens [NAc]) of the mesoaccumbens dopamine system. The present study determined whether repeated amphetamine administration alters expression of mRNAs for AMPA receptor subunits. We studied the NAc, because it is the site of expression of amphetamine sensitization, and the prefrontal cortex (PFC), because it is the origin of EAA projections that regulate the mesoaccumbens dopamine system. Rats were treated for 5 days with 5 mg/kg/day amphetamine sulfate or vehicle (controls) and perfused 3 or 14 days after the last injection. We used a novel in situ hybridization method that allows quantification of mRNA levels [Lu et al. (1996) J. Neurosci. Methods, 65:69-76]. Repeated amphetamine administration decreased levels of GluR1 and GluR2 but not GluR3 mRNAs in both core and shell subregions of the NAc at the 14 day withdrawal time; no changes were observed after 3 days of withdrawal. In contrast, levels of GluR1 mRNA in the PFC were increased at 3 but not 14 days of withdrawal, while GluR2 and 3 mRNAs were unchanged. Levels of GluR4 mRNA were very low in both NAc and PFC. Functional properties of heteromeric AMPA receptors are determined by subunit composition. Thus, the observed changes in mRNAs for AMPA receptor subunits may result in altered AMPA transmission in NAc and PFC. This, in turn, may influence the responsiveness of the mesoaccumbens DA system to psychomotor stimulants and potentially contribute to behavioral sensitization.
With the possible exception of aspirin, there are still no drug treatments which have been found to be so effective in randomised controlled trials, and meta-analyses of such trials, that they should be used routinely in acute ischaemic stroke. The evidence on thrombolysis is tantalising but with only about 3500 randomised patients in all the trials put together it is too early to say how, and for whom, this promising treatment should be used, particularly bearing in mind the risk of intracranial haemorrhage; the evidence so far is enough to persuade us to enter our patients into further large trials of thrombolysis but it is not enough to justify this treatment in our routine clinical practice.
Antiplatelet therapy with aspirin, started within 48 hr of an acute ischaemic stroke, is safe and effective, avoiding about 10 deaths and early recurrent strokes per 1,000 patients treated. The reduction in early recurrent ischaemic stroke is not offset by any significant increase in intracranial haemorrhage. Immediate antiplatelet therapy in acute ischaemic stroke also seems to be associated with better long-term functional outcome, reducing the proportion of patients dead or dependent 6 months after the stroke. Aspirin is the only antiplatelet agent which has been evaluated adequately in acute ischaemic stroke. In this setting a dose is required which is large enough to achieve rapid inhibition of thromboxane biosynthesis and around 160-300 mg is required. If the patient can swallow safely, aspirin can be administered by mouth, if not, then per rectum as a suppository.
What features of brain processing and neural development support linguistic development in young children? To what extent is the profile and timing of linguistic development in young children determined by a pre-ordained genetic programme? Does the environment play a crucial role in determining the patterns of change observed in children growing up? Recent experimental, neuroimaging and computational studies of developmental change in children promise to contribute to a deeper understanding of how the brain becomes wired up for language. In this review, the muttidisciplinary perspectives of cognitive neuroscience, experimental psycholinguistics and neural network modelling are brought to bear on four distinct areas in the study of language acquisition: early speech perception, word recognition, word learning and the acquisition of grammatical inflections. It is suggested that each area demonstrates how linguistic development can be driven by the interaction of general learning mechanisms, highly sensitive to particular statistical regularities in the input, with a richly structured environment which provides the necessary ingredients for the emergence of linguistic representations that support mature language processing. Similar epigenetic principles, guiding the emergence of linguistic structure, apply to all these domains, offering insights into phenomena ranging from the precocity of young infant's sensitivity to speech contrasts to the complexities of the problem facing the young child learning the arabic plural.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are a rapidly expanding subclass of the transforming growth factor superfamily. BMP ligands and receptor subunits are present throughout neural development within discrete regions of the embryonic brain and within neural crest-derived pre- and post-migratory zones. BMPs initially inhibit the formation of neuroectoderm during gastrulation while, within the neural tube, they act as gradient morphogens to promote the differentiation of dorsal cell types and intermediate cell types throughout co-operative signaling. In the peripheral nervous system, BMPs act as instructive signals for neuronal lineage commitment and promote graded stages of neuronal differentiation. By contrast, within the CNS, these same factors promote astroglial lineage elaboration from embryonic subventricular zone progenitor cells, with concurrent suppression of the neuronal or oligodendroglial lineages, or both. In addition, BMPs act on more lineage-restricted embryonic CNS progenitor cells to promote regional neuronal survival and cellular differentiation. Furthermore, these versatile cytokines induce selective apoptosis of discrete rhombencephalic neural crest-associated cellular populations. These observations suggest that the BMPs exhibit a broad range of cellular and context-specific effects during multiple stages of neural development.


The rod bipolar cell and about five types of ON cone bipolar cells depolarize to light by employing a sign-reversing metabotropic glutamate receptor. Glutamate responses are similar in both rod bipolar and cone bipolar cells, but the receptor mediating this response (mGluR6) was so far demonstrated only in rod bipolar cells. To test if ON cone bipolar cells also express mGluR6, we immunoreacted rat retina with an antibody specific for mGluR6, and studied the staining from serial ultrathin sections. We demonstrate that mGluR6 is indeed expressed in the dendritic tips of cone bipolar cells, the majority of which receive a ribbon synapse, and thus probably are ON cone bipolar cells. We further show that half of the dendritic tips contacting the cones stain for mGluR6, thus implying that all ON cone bipolar cell types express mGluR6.

Activated forms of the GTPases, Rac and Cdc42, are known to stimulate formation of microfilament-rich lamellipodia and filopodia, respectively, but the underlying mechanisms have remained obscure. We now report the purification and characterization of a protein, IQGAP1, which is likely to mediate effects of these GTPases on microfilaments. Native IQGAP1 purified from bovine adrenal comprises two approximately 190-kD subunits per molecule plus substoichiometric calmodulin. Purified IQGAP1 bound directly to F-actin and cross-linked the actin filaments into irregular, interconnected bundles that exhibited gel-like properties. Exogenous calmodulin partially inhibited binding of IQGAP1 to F-actin, and was more effective in the absence, than in the presence of calcium. Immunofluorescence microscopy demonstrated cytochalasin D-sensitive colocalization of IQGAP1 with cortical microfilaments. These results, in conjunction with prior evidence that IQGAP1 binds directly to activated Rac and Cdc42, suggest that IQGAP1 serves as a direct molecular link between these GTPases and the actin cytoskeleton, and that the actin-binding activity of IQGAP1 is regulated by calmodulin.
In the biflagellated alga Chlamydomonas, adhesion and fusion of the plasma membranes of gametes during fertilization occurs via an actin-filled, microvillus-like cell protrusion. Formation of this approximately 3-microm-long fusion organelle, the Chlamydomonas fertilization tubule, is induced in mating type plus (mt+) gametes during flagellar adhesion with mating type minus (mt-) gametes. Subsequent adhesion between the tip of the mt+ fertilization tubule and the apex of a mating structure on mt- gametes is followed rapidly by fusion of the plasma membranes and zygote formation. In this report, we describe the isolation and characterization of fertilization tubules from mt+ gametes activated for cell fusion. Fertilization tubules were detached by homogenization of activated mt+ gametes in an EGTA-containing buffer and purified by differential centrifugation followed by fractionation on sucrose and Percoll gradients. As determined by fluorescence microscopy of samples stained with a fluorescent probe for filamentous actin, the method yielded 2-3 x 10(6) fertilization tubules/microg protein, representing up to a 360-fold enrichment of these organelles. Examination by negative stain electron microscopy demonstrated that the purified fertilization tubules were morphologically indistinguishable from fertilization tubules on intact, activated mt+ gametes, retaining both the extracellular fringe and the internal array of actin filaments. Several proteins, including actin as well as two surface proteins identified by biotinylation studies, copurified with the fertilization tubules. Most importantly, the isolated mt+ fertilization tubules bound to the apical ends of activated mt- gametes between the two flagella, the site of the mt- mating structure; a single fertilization tubule bound per cell, binding was specific for gametes, and fertilization tubules isolated from trypsin-treated, activated mt+ gametes did not bind to activated mt- gametes.
Calbindin-D28k (CB) is a calcium-binding protein whose exact function has yet to be elucidated. Because CB is contained in distinct cell types in the nervous system, it is a valuable marker for distinguishing specific nuclear subdivisions and neuronal populations. In the present study, immunohistochemical methods were used to localize CB in the rat amygdala. A subpopulation of nonpyramidal neurons in all nuclei of the basolateral amygdala (ABL) exhibited intense CB immunoreactivity (CB-ir). CB-positive puncta resembling axon terminals were observed surrounding pyramidal perikarya in the ABL. Pyramidal neurons in caudal and lateral portions of the ABL exhibited moderate CB-ir. Intensely stained nonpyramidal neurons resembling those of the ABL were also seen in the cortical nuclei, periamygdaloid cortex, and nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract; these nuclei also contained variable numbers of moderately stained pyramidal cells. Numerous CB-positive neurons were observed in all subdivisions of the medial nucleus. The posterodorsal subdivision of the medial nucleus exhibited a centrally located island of small CB-negative neurons and three cell-dense clusters of CB-positive neurons. The distribution of CB-ir in the central nuclear complex was very heterogeneous. The intermediate subdivision of the central nuclear complex exhibited the most robust staining, whereas the lateral subdivision contained relatively few CB-positive cells. Dorsal and ventral portions of the lateral capsular subdivision of the central nuclear complex could be readily distinguished on the basis of differing levels of CB-ir. These results indicate that CB is localized in discrete cell types and nuclear subdivisions in the rat amygdala and suggest that CB immunohistochemistry is a useful technique for identifying specific structural components in this brain region.
We have used the D2-specific dopamine receptor ligand spiperone [N-(p-aminophenethyl) spiperone; NAPS] coupled to the fluorophore 7-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazole-4-yl (NBD) to visualize dopamine receptors expressed in vitro by neurons of the primary antennosensory centers (antennal lobes) of the brain of the honey bee, Apis mellifera. Changes in the percentage of antennal lobe neurons exhibiting spiperone binding sites over time in culture and at different stages of metamorphic adult development have been investigated. Neurons obtained from animals at all stages of development exhibited spiperone binding sites, but only after 2 days or more in vitro. The percentage of antennal lobe neurons in vitro expressing spiperone binding sites increased significantly with the development of the antennal lobe neuropil. Fluorescently labelled spiperone (120 nM) could be displaced effectively by 1 mM dopamine but not by the same concentration of tyramine, octopamine, or serotonin. In addition, the D2 antagonist spiperone and the D2/D1 antagonist fluphenazine were more effective at displacing the fluorescent ligand than the D1-specific antagonist SCH23390. Our results indicate that Apis antennal lobe neurons in culture express a dopamine receptor and that this receptor is more likely to be D2-like than D1-like in nature. The receptor is expressed early in the metamorphic adult development of the antennal lobe neuropil of the brain.
This news brief informs about the breakthrough in the development of a suitable male contraceptive pill. Joseph Hall, a biochemist at North Carolina State University in Raleigh, developed a synthetic compound that interferes with sperm maturation. This male contraceptive was developed over a 10-year period with the support of the National Science Foundation's division of integrative biology and neuroscience. The compound is a sugary substance that inhibits 98% of enzyme activity needed for sperm maturation and fertility in male rats. The substance did not alter the hormone balance and had few effects on the sex drive. There was no effect on fertility after the dosage was stopped. The substance inhibited the activity of the 'B' form of the N-acetyl-beta-D-hexosaminidase enzyme, which is secreted and inserted into sperm cells after leaving the testes. The sperm cells traverse the tube-like epididymis and after ejaculation are unable to recognize, bind with, and penetrate the egg membranes, which prevents fertilization. The enzyme's 'A' and 'B' forms both perform the same physiological functions, but the 'B' enzyme was only found in sperm cells. The analog inhibited 98% of enzyme activity required for union with the egg in &quot;in vitro&quot; experiments. Oral administration of the analog blocked fertilization about 90% of the time. Further experimentation will be conducted in order to understand how the analog is metabolized. The compound is being tested on bull and human sperm. The research was conducted in part due to a challenge from the researcher's wife to develop a safe, effective male birth control pill.
A potent and specific prolyl endopeptidase inhibitor, JTP-4819, was used to investigate the role of prolyl endopeptidase in the generation of amyloid beta protein (A beta) from APP by NG108-15 cells. Synthetic substrates, 7-(succinyl-Ile-Ala)-4-methylcoumarinamide and Z(Val-Lys-Met)-4-methylcoumarinamide, respectively, corresponding to the C-terminal and N-terminal portions of A beta, were cleaved by NG108-15 cell lysates. Cleavage of the C-terminal portion, but not the N-terminal, was inhibited by JTP-4819 (IC50 = 0.6 nM). Western blot analysis showed that the A beta level in the culture medium of NG108-15 cells was increased by serum deprivation. JTP-4819 caused concentration (&gt;10(-9) M)- and time-dependent inhibition of this serum deprivation-induced increase of A beta without having any effect on the level of the secretory form of APP. Using both specific anti-A beta (1-40) and anti-A beta (1-42) antisera, the A beta that increased with serum deprivation was confirmed to be A beta (1-40), suggesting that it might be produced by conversion of A beta (1-42) to A beta (1-40). These findings indicate that prolyl endopeptidase may be a key enzyme in the production of A beta by NG108-15 cells and that A beta secretion can be modulated by a prolyl endopeptidase inhibitor.
Immunolabeling patterns of the immediate early gene-related protein Fos in the gerbil brainstem were studied following stimulation of the sacculus by both hypergravity and galvanic stimulation. Head-restrained, alert animals were exposed to a prolonged (1 h) inertial vector of 2 G (19.6 m/s2) head acceleration directed in a dorso-ventral head axis to maximally stimulate the sacculus. Fos-defined immunoreactivity was quantified, and the results compared to a control group. The hypergravity stimulus produced Fos immunolabeling in the dorsomedial cell column (dmcc) of the inferior olive independently of other subnuclei. Similar dmcc labeling was induced by a 30 min galvanic stimulus of up to -100 microA applied through a stimulating electrode placed unilaterally on the bony labyrinth overlying the posterior canal (PC). The pattern of vestibular afferent firing activity induced by this galvanic stimulus was quantified in anesthetized gerbils by simultaneously recording from Scarpa's ganglion. Only saccular and PC afferent neurons exhibited increases in average firing rates of 200-300%, suggesting a pattern of current spread involving only PC and saccular afferent neurons at this level of stimulation. These results suggest that alteration in saccular afferent firing rates are sufficient to induce Fos-defined genomic activation of the dmcc, and lend further evidence to the existence of a functional vestibulo-olivary-cerebellar pathway of adaptation to novel gravito-inertial environments.
To elucidate the role of astrocytes in the stress response of the central nervous system to ischemia, early gene expression was evaluated in cultured rat astrocytes subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation. Using differential display, a novel putative vesicle transport-related factor (RA410) was cloned from reoxygenated astrocytes. Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence showed RA410 to be composed of domains common to vesicle transport-related proteins of the Sec1/Unc18 family, including Sly1p and Sec1p (yeast), Rop (Drosophila), Unc18 (Caenorhabditis elegans), and Munc18 (mammalian), suggesting its possible role in vesicular transport. Northern analysis of normal rat tissues showed the highest expression of RA410 transcripts in testis. When astrocyte cultures were subjected to a period of hypoxia followed by reoxygenation, induction of RA410 mRNA was observed within 15 min of reoxygenation, reaching a maximum by 60 min. At the start of reoxygenation, the addition of diphenyl iodonium, an NADPH oxidase inhibitor, blocked in parallel astrocyte generation of reactive oxygen intermediates and expression of RA410 message. In contrast, cycloheximide did not affect RA410 mRNA levels, indicating that RA410 is an immediate-early gene in the setting of reoxygenation. Using polyclonal antibody raised against an RA410-derived synthetic peptide, Western blotting of lysates from reoxygenated astrocytes displayed an immunoreactive band of approximately 70 kDa, the expression of which followed induction of the mRNA. Fractionation of astrocyte lysates on sucrose gradients showed RA410 antigen to be predominantly in the plasma membrane. Immunoelectron microscopic analysis demonstrated RA410 in large vesicles associated with the Golgi, but not in the Golgi apparatus itself, consistent with its participation in post-Golgi transport. Consistent with these in vitro data, RA410 expression was observed in rat brain astrocytes following transient occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. These data provide insight into a new protein (RA410) that participates in the ischemia-related stress response in astrocytes.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) supports the survival and differentiation of distinct populations of peripheral and central neurons. NGF binds to two classes of cell-surface receptors, the protein tyrosine kinase TrkA and the smaller p75 receptor lacking intrinsic catalytic activity. It has been suggested that both receptors are required for NGF high affinity binding, although TrkA appears to be sufficient for transducing most of the biological effects of NGF. Some evidence suggests that p75 could play a modulatory role on TrkA activation by an as yet unknown mechanism. In this study, we have investigated functional roles of p75 using a purified triple mutant NGF (triNGF) deficient in p75 binding but retaining significant TrkA binding and activation. The mutant was found to be as potent as wild type NGF at promoting survival of serum-deprived TrkA-expressing fibroblasts. On developing chick sensory neurons, survival responses to mutant and native NGF were indistinguishable when assayed at nanomolar concentrations. However, triNGF was 3- to 4-fold less potent than wild type NGF at lower concentrations (i.e. 10(-11) M). Interestingly, in PC12 cells coexpressing TrkA and p75, no high affinity binding sites for triNGF could be detected. The reduced responsiveness to triNGF in sensory neurons was increasingly evident at later developmental stages; late embryonic neurons did not respond at all to concentrations of triNGF that were saturating at earlier developmental stages. Likewise, although no difference could be seen between wild type and mutant NGF on the survival responses of embryonic rat superior cervical ganglion sympathetic neurons, the mutant was much less potent than native NGF on postnatal sympathetic neurons. In sensory neurons, the decrease in responsiveness to triNGF correlated with a developmental reduction in the expression of both p75 and TrkA. Thus, NGF binding to p75 enhances responsiveness to ligand, particularly when this is present at limiting concentrations. During development, p75 modulates responsiveness to NGF so that binding to p75 becomes increasingly important in neurons undergoing a down-regulation of NGF receptors. These results support a ligand-dependent modulatory role for p75 in NGF-mediated neuron survival consistent with p75 functioning as a TrkA regulator and/or signaling receptor.
Although it is well established that the number of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptors declines in cortical neurons exposed to GABAA receptor agonists, the mechanisms responsible for this use-dependent down-regulation remain unclear. Two hypotheses have been proposed: (i) agonist-evoked sequestration and degradation of surface GABAA receptors and (ii) repression of receptor subunit biosynthesis. We have addressed this problem using [35S]Met/Cys pulse-chase labeling of chick cortical neurons in culture and immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting with an antibody (RP4) directed against a GABAA receptor alpha1-(331-381) fusion protein. Exposure of the cells to GABA or isoguvacine for 2 h to 4 days had no effect on the initial rate of 35S incorporation into the GABAA receptor 51-kDa alpha1 polypeptide, but this rate declined by 33% after a 7-day treatment. This is consistent with a previous report (Baumgartner, B. J., Harvey, R. J., Darlison, M. G., and Barnes, E. M. (1994) Mol. Brain Res. 26, 9-17) that a 7-day GABA treatment of this preparation produced a 45% reduction in the alpha1 subunit mRNA level, while a 4-day exposure had no detectable effect. On the other hand, after a 4-day exposure to these agonists, a 30% reduction in the level of the alpha1 polypeptide was observed on immunoblots, similar to that found previously for down-regulation of GABAA receptor ligand-binding sites. Thus, the de novo synthesis of GABAA receptor alpha1 subunits is subject to a delayed use-dependent repression that was observed after, rather than before, the decline in neuronal levels of the polypeptide. Pulse-chase experiments showed a monophasic degradation of the GABAA receptor 35S-alpha1 subunit with a t1/2 = 7.7 h, a process that was unaffected by the addition of GABA to neurons during the chase period. These nascent 35S-labeled polypeptides are presumably diluted into the neuronal pool of unlabeled unassembled alpha1 subunits, which was found to exceed by a 4:1 molar ratio the amount assembled into [3H]flunitrazepam binding sites. Thus, the data reveal an alternative scheme for degradation of GABAA receptor polypeptides: a pathway that may participate in the agonist-independent degradation of unassembled receptor subunits. This differs from another pathway for the agonist-dependent degradation of mature GABAA receptors derived from the neuronal surface (Calkin, P. A., and Barnes, E. M., Jr. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 1548-1553).
The routes of Ca2+ entry in response to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and K+ depolarisation in cerebellar granule cells have been investigated using fura-2 fluorescence to measure intracellular Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i) and Mn2+ quench of fura-2 fluorescence as an index of Ca2+ entry. Removal of extracellular Na+ did not affect the [Ca2+]i elevation or the rate of Mn2+ quench of fura-2 fluorescence in response to NMDA (100 microM). K+ (25 mM) produced a [Ca2+]i increase which showed a 27% reduction in the presence of the NMDA channel blocker MK-801 (10 microM), whereas no reduction was detected in 50 mM K+ stimulated [Ca2+]i increases. K+ (25 and 50 mM)-stimulated Mn2+ quench rates were not significantly reduced by MK-801. These results demonstrate that NMDA primarily stimulates Ca2+ entry directly through the NMDA receptor without a major component of Ca2+ entry through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels (VGCCs). Under conditions which minimise the accumulation of endogenous glutamate, K+ depolarisation elicits a Ca2+ influx resulting mainly from activation of VGCCs. Additionally, these results show Mn2+ quench of fura-2 fluorescence to be a sensitive and definitive assay of Ca2+ entry through the NMDA receptor and VGCCs.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) levels were compared in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) taken on two occasions, with an average 15 months follow up, from groups of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD: n = 18), mild cognitive impairment (MCI; n = 9) and other dementia disorders (ODD; n = 9). In these groups, CSF apoE levels were between 2-3-fold higher than values for a group of 27 healthy age-matched controls. CSF apoE levels in the AD group were significantly increased at follow up, compared to levels obtained on the first sampling occasion. For the same cases it had been shown previously that CSF tau protein levels were increased at follow up [Blomberg, M., Jensen, M., Basun, H., Lannfelt, L. and Wahlund, L-O., Neurosci. Lett., 214 (1996) 163-166]. The AD, but not MCI, ODD or control groups, also showed statistically significant correlations between CSF apoE and tau protein levels at both the first (r = 0.585, P &lt; 0.01) and follow up (r = 0.695, P &gt; 0.001 ) samplings. It is concluded that CSF measures of both apoE and tau may reflect an intimate relationship between these two proteins in AD and could prove useful in monitoring the progression of this condition.
Pyramidal neurons receive tens of thousands of synaptic inputs on their dendrites. The dendrites dynamically alter the strengths of these synapses and coordinate them to produce an output in ways that are not well understood. Surprisingly, there turns out to be a very high density of transient A-type potassium ion channels in dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. These channels prevent initiation of an action potential in the dendrites, limit the back-propagation of action potentials into the dendrites, and reduce excitatory synaptic events. The channels act to prevent large, rapid dendritic depolarizations, thereby regulating orthograde and retrograde propagation of dendritic potentials.
Astrocytes protect neurons against reactive oxygen species such as hydrogen peroxide, a capacity which reportedly is abolished following loss of the antioxidant glutathione. Anethole dithiolethione, a sulfur-containing compound which is used in humans, is known to increase cellular glutathione levels and thought thereby to protect against oxidative damage. In the present study we found that anethole dithiolethione increased the glutathione content of cultured rat striatal astrocytes. This effect was abolished by coincubation with the glutathione synthesis inhibitor buthionine sulfoximine. Nevertheless, in the presence of buthionine sulfoximine, despite the lack of an increase in the lowered glutathione level, anethole dithiolethione fully protected the astrocytes against the enhanced toxicity of hydrogen peroxide. Thus, apparently other mechanisms than stimulation of glutathione synthesis are involved in the compound's protective action in astrocytes. Considering the occurrence of lowered glutathione levels in neurodegenerative syndromes, we conclude that further evaluation of the therapeutic potential of anethole dithiolethione is warranted.
Human declarative memory involves a systematic organization of information that supports generalizations and inferences from acquired knowledge. This kind of memory depends on the hippocampal region in humans, but the extent to which animals also have declarative memory, and whether inferential expression of memory depends on the hippocampus in animals, remains a major challenge in cognitive neuroscience. To examine these issues, we used a test of transitive inference pioneered by Piaget to assess capacities for systematic organization of knowledge and logical inference in children. In our adaptation of the test, rats were trained on a set of four overlapping odor discrimination problems that could be encoded either separately or as a single representation of orderly relations among the odor stimuli. Normal rats learned the problems and demonstrated the relational memory organization through appropriate transitive inferences about items not presented together during training. By contrast, after disconnection of the hippocampus from either its cortical or subcortical pathway, rats succeeded in acquiring the separate discrimination problems but did not demonstrate transitive inference, indicating that they had failed to develop or could not inferentially express the orderly organization of the stimulus elements. These findings strongly support the view that the hippocampus mediates a general declarative memory capacity in animals, as it does in humans.
Inactivating and noninactivating Na+ conductances are known to generate, respectively, the rising phase and the prolonged plateau phase of cerebellar Purkinje cell (PC) action potentials. These conductances have different voltage activation levels, suggesting the possibility that two distinct types of ion channels are involved. Single Purkinje cell reverse transcription-PCR from guinea pig cerebellar slices identified two Na+ channel alpha subunit transcripts, the orthologs of RBI (rat brain I) and Nach6/Scn8a. The latter we shall name CerIII. In situ hybridization histochemistry in rat brain demonstrated broad CerIII expression at high levels in many neuronal groups in the brain and spinal cord, with little if any expression in white matter, or nerve tracts. RBII (rat brain II), the most commonly studied recombinant Na+ channel alpha subunit is not expressed in PCs. As the absence of Scn8a has been correlated with motor endplate disease (med), in which transient sodium currents are spared, RBI appears to be responsible for the transient sodium current in PC. Conversely, jolting mice with a mutated Scn8a message demonstrates PC abnormalities in rapid, simple spike generation, linking CerIII to the persistent sodium current.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate in vivo the activity-dependent plasticity of glutamatergic cortico-striatal synapses. Electrical stimuli were applied in the facial motor cortex and intracellular recordings were performed in the ipsilateral striatal projection field of this cortical area. Recorded cells exhibited the typical intrinsic membrane properties of striatal output neurons and were identified morphologically as medium spiny type I neurons. Subthreshold cortical tetanization produced either short-term posttetanic potentiation or short-term depression of cortically-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials. When coupled with a postsynaptic depolarization leading the membrane potential to a suprathreshold level, the tetanus induced long-term potentiation (LTP) of cortico-striatal synaptic transmission. Induction of striatal LTP was prevented by intracellular injection of a calcium chelator suggesting that this synaptic plasticity involves an increase of postsynaptic free calcium concentration. Contrasting with previous in vitro studies our findings demonstrate that LTP constitutes the normal form of use-dependent plasticity at cortico-striatal synapses. Since excitation of striatal neurons produces a disinhibition of premotor networks, LTP at excitatory striatal inputs should favor the initiation of movements and therefore could be critical for the functions of basal ganglia in motor learning.
We describe a general approach for achieving efficient and cell type-specific expression of exogenous genes in photoreceptor cells of the mammalian retina. Recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vectors were used to transfer the bacterial lacZ gene or a synthetic green fluorescent protein gene (gfp) to mouse or rat retinas after injection into the subretinal space. Using a proximal murine rod opsin promoter (+86 to -385) to drive expression, reporter gene product was found exclusively in photoreceptors, not in any other retinal cell type or in the adjacent retinal pigment epithelium. GFP-expressing photoreceptors typically encompassed 10-20% of the total retinal area after a single 2-microl injection. Photoreceptors were transduced with nearly 100% efficiency in the region directly surrounding the injection site. We estimate approximately 2.5 million photoreceptors were transduced as a result of the single subretinal inoculation. This level of gene transfer and expression suggests the feasibility of genetic therapy for retinal disease. The gfp-containing rAAV stock was substantially free of both adenovirus and wild-type AAV, as judged by plaque assay and infectious center assay, respectively. Thus, highly purified, helper virus-free rAAV vectors can achieve high-frequency tissue-specific transduction of terminally differentiated, postmitotic photoreceptor cells.
We used quantitative autoradiography to determine whether the development of glutamate receptors correlates with the plastic period for monocular deprivation in rat visual cortex. To study glutamate receptors, we incubated sections of rat visual cortex with tritiated (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]-cyclohepten-5,10imin e maleate (MK-801), tritiated kainate, and tritiated amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA). [3H]MK-801 is a noncompetitive ligand for the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. [3H]kainate and [3H]AMPA are competitive ligands for non-NMDA receptors. To compare glutamate binding sites with a nonglutamate binding site, we studied [3H]muscimol, which binds to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptors. [3H]MK-801 binding was maximal at postnatal day 26 (P26) and decreased in adulthood. [3H]AMPA binding was maximal at P18. [3H]kainate binding and [3H]muscimol binding were not age dependent. Dark rearing partially prevented the age-dependent decrease in [3H]MK-801 binding but had no effect on [3H]kainate or [3H]AMPA binding. Dark rearing decreased muscimol binding in adult animals. These results suggest that NMDA receptors, but not other glutamate receptors or GABAA receptors, are likely to be critical for developmental plasticity in rat visual cortex.
Two experiments examined the effects of disrupting the temporal patterns that develop during sentence reading and listening. Sentences were presented either visually, one word at a time (Experiment 1) or as natural speech (Experiment 2). Half of the sentences were familiar (proverbs or idioms) while the other half were constructed anew for these experiments. Within half the sentences, there was an unexpected 600-ms delay between the final two words. In both modalities, the amplitude of the N400 component of the event-related brain potential (ERP) to sentence final words was larger for unfamiliar than familiar sentences. The results in the two modalities differed, however, in that a Contingent Negative Variation (CNV) developed during the delay interval in the visual modality, whereas in the auditory modality the delay was marked by an emitted potential. The present results show that temporal patterns are processed differently in natural speech and in reading words presented one at a time in the center of a computer screen.
Specific antipeptide antibodies were used for the immunohistochemical visualization of 5-HT1B receptors in the rat brain. A dense, specific 5-HT1B receptor-like immunoreactivity was found in the globus pallidus, the dorsal subiculum and the substantia nigra. At the light microscope level, immunostaining was diffuse within the neuropil but absent from cell bodies. Observations at the electron microscope level in the substantia nigra showed immunoperoxidase staining in fine unmyelinated axons and nerve terminals.
The pedunculopontine-laterodorsal tegmental nuclear complex was identified as a major source of brainstem afferents terminating in the fastigial cerebellar nucleus and/or ventrolateral reticular nucleus (n.Rvl). Collaterals from the pedunculopontine nucleus (Ch5 area) to rostral [vasopressor] regions of the fastigial nucleus and ventral reticular formation were revealed with a combined retrograde tracing technique. The data implicate acetylcholine as a transmitter and raise the hypothesis that the identified afferents may contribute to the autonomic and behavioral responses to midline cerebellar stimulation.
Studies using continuous recording of neural activity during long-term learning are now possible with an implanted neurotrophic electrode. During recording of individual cortical action potentials in monkeys performing a reach and grasp task, we were able to follow the gradual change in firing of several action potentials as the task was learned. Control experiments suggest that the neurons involved in the learning were initially silent.
Withdrawal Seizure Prone (WSP) and Withdrawal Seizure Resistant (WSR) mice have been selectively bred for differential ethanol withdrawal handling-induced convulsions (HICs). In addition, it has been observed that WSP mice exhibit drug-naive HICs. This latter finding suggests that WSP and WSR mice differ in their susceptibility to HICs. Alterations in the glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) systems have been implicated in convulsive activity and have been proposed to underlie the manifestation of ethanol withdrawal symptoms. It is therefore possible that WSP and WSR mice are genetically different with respect to their glutamatergic and/or GABAergic systems. To test this hypothesis, we have analyzed WSP and WSR mice that are both drug- and HIC-naive for differences in the density of nerve terminal glutamate and GABA immunoreactivity within the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus (CA1) and layer II of the somatosensory cortex (SSC). The major finding of this study is that drug- and HIC-naive WSP mice exhibit a significantly greater density of presynaptic glutamate immunoreactivity associated with asymmetric synapses within the CA1, but not the SSC, when compared to WSR mice. The density of GABA immunoreactivity within nerve terminals associated with symmetric synapses does not differ between the selected lines in either brain region. Since prior drug exposure and HICs cannot account for the observed differences in these naive mice, the results strongly suggest that the density of nerve terminal glutamate immunoreactivity within the CA1 is a reflection of inherent genetic differences between WSP and WSR mice. Furthermore, an elevated density of presynaptic glutamate immunoreactivity may be an underlying neurochemical correlate to increased susceptibility to drug-naive and ethanol withdrawal convulsions.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is transported by fast anterograde axonal transport. Since disruption of this transport results in APP accumulation, APP has been proposed as a sensitive marker of axonal injury. In the present study, axonal injury in subcortical white matter and myelinated fibre tracts permeating the striatum, 24 h after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat, has been examined by assessing the location and extent of APP immunoreactivity. Increased APP immunoreactivity was present in both areas. This was localised to a circumscribed zone immediately adjacent to the boundary of the ischaemic lesion in grey matter. The amount of APP immunoreactivity was associated with the volume of the ischaemic lesion in individual animals. Increased APP immunoreactivity in subcortical white matter and myelinated fibre tracts at the margin of the ischaemic zone may prove to be a valuable marker for assessing strategies to protect axons after an ischaemic insult.
Rat brain cortical cells in primary culture were used to investigate long-term effects of opiates on endopeptidases acting on dynorphin peptides. Enzyme activity in the soluble fraction of the cells converted dynorphin B to Leu-enkephalin-Arg6 and to a lesser extent to Leu-enkephalin. Five day treatment with 10 microM morphine increased the conversion to Leu-enkephalin-Arg6 by 370%. This effect was prevented by the presence of naloxone in the culture medium. The opiate-inducible activity was directed to the Arg-Arg bond in dynorphins with preference for dynorphin B &gt; alpha-neoendorphin &gt; &gt; dynorphin A. The Km for the generation of Leu-enkephalin-Arg6 from dynorphin B was 40 microM. Enzyme activity was inhibited by dynorphin fragments, in the following order of potency: dynorphin A(1-13) &gt; A(2-13) &gt; A(1-17) &gt; A(2-17) and by SH-reagents, suggesting the presence of a cysteine-protease. The opiate-stimulated dynorphin-converting enzyme (DCE)-activity affects the balance between dynorphin peptides (selective for kappa-opioid receptors) and enkephalin peptides (selective for delta-opioid receptors). Since both types of opioid peptides can influence the development of opiate tolerance, the change in the extent of this transformation may be functionally important.
The capacity of male rats to remember familiar conspecifics is called social recognition. It is a form of short-term memory modulated by lateral septal (LS) vasopressin (VP). The specificity of this phenomenon was studied by examining whether recognition of previously investigated objects is also under control of lateral septal VP. For social recognition male Wistar rats were confronted with juveniles for 5 min. Re-exposure to the same juvenile took place after 30 or 120 min, or with a different juvenile after 30 min. This procedure was duplicated for object recognition using a plastic food cup or a 50 ml Erlenmeyer flask. After these initial tests osmotic minipumps and brain cannulae were implanted, infusing VP receptor antagonist into the LS (dPTyr(Et)AVP, 1 ng/0.5 microl/h, bilateral). Animals were re-tested for social and object recognition using 30 min re-test interval (same juvenile or object). We reproduced previous reports concerning social recognition; animals recognized juveniles after 30 min, not after 120 min and VP antagonist treatment blocked recognition. Testing for object recognition revealed a reduction in investigation time at the 30 min interval (same and different object), but not after 120 min. VP antagonist treatment was unable to block object recognition. The data suggest that, in contrast to social recognition, object recognition reflects a form of habituation, which is not under the control of lateral septal VP.
Axon growth-promoting and -inhibitory molecules are likely to work in concert to promote and guide axons in vivo. In adult mammals, inhibitory molecules associated with myelin in the white matter of the central nervous system (CNS) play an important role in the failure of long-distance axon regeneration. The presence of neurite growth-inhibitory molecules in the adult rat gray matter has not been extensively studied. In this article we describe work on the characterization of neurite growth-inhibitory activity in the adult rat cerebral cortical gray matter using various biochemical and cell culture approaches. We show using a neuronal cell line (NG108-15 cells) that neurite growth-inhibitory activity is present in membrane preparations of the cortical gray matter. Purified gray matter membranes also induce growth cone collapse of cultured embryonic rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. The inhibitory activity in the membrane preparations is extractable with 3-[(3-cholamidoprophyl)-dimethylammonio]-1-propane-sulfonate, but does not appear to be depleted by various lectins. Western blots and enzyme treatments showed that the inhibitory effect of the gray-matter preparations is not likely to be mediated by myelin-associated inhibitors or chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans. However, tenascin was detected in these samples and may contribute to some of the inhibitory activity. Selective separation of the inhibitory molecules can be achieved by ion-exchange chromatography, which also suggests the presence of multiple inhibitors in cortical gray matter membranes.
It is known that social drift to cities increases the urban prevalence for severe mental illnesses. Recent studies in England and Sweden have reported that being born in, or raised in, an urban area is also a risk factor for later developing schizophrenia. The present study utilized 1880 census data, the most complete enumeration of severely mentally ill individuals ever done in the United States, to examine the association of urban residence and severe mental illnesses. Individuals identified as having one of seven forms of 'insanity' (n = 91959) were allocated to their county of origin (n = 2661) in the census. Rates of 'insane' persons per 1000 population were calculated for each county. The counties were then divided by degree of urbanization based on the largest cities and the percentage of population living in towns of 4000 or more. The point prevalence of 'insanity' in the United States as a whole in 1880 was 1.8 per 1000. There was a significant association between 'insanity' by county and degree of urbanization, with odds ratios of 1.66 for urban, 1.46 for semi-urban, and 1.44 for semi-rural, and 1.37 for rural, using completely rural counties as a baseline. Most completely rural counties with high rates included mining camps, lumbering camps, or fishing villages, and not farming areas. In addition to urban drift, urban birth and residence appear to be risk factors for developing severe mental illnesses. Psychological and biological explanations have both been proposed. However, recent studies reporting winter birth and urban birth or residence as synergistic risk factors favor the latter.
Among the many transcription factors thus far identified several are found to be expressed almost exclusively in the nervous system. The Brn-3 subfamily of POU-transcription factors constitutes a highly conserved group of such factors showing expression predominantly in sensory neurons. We now describe the nucleotide sequence and proposed amino acid sequence of a chicken homologue to the murine and human Brn-3 genes. Furthermore we characterise the early embryonic expression pattern of this chicken Brn-3 gene and show it to be expressed in peripheral sensory ganglia as well as in retinal ganglion cells. Based on these findings we conclude that the chicken homologue to the murine and human Brn-3a genes has been cloned. We have begun to examine possible regulatory pathways of Brn-3a by stimulating chick embryonic peripheral ganglia with trophic factors and assaying resulting levels of Brn-3a with a quantitative PCR approach. Trigeminal and dorsal root ganglia stimulated in culture by NGF and NT-3 embryonic day 9 (E9) produce neurites without raising the Brn-3a mRNA levels.
YM992 ((S)-2-[[(7-fluoro-4-indanyl)oxy]methyl]morpholine monohydrochloride) is a novel compound that has selective serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) re-uptake inhibition and 5-HT2A receptor antagonistic activity in vivo. YM992, fluoxetine and citalopram showed 5-HT uptake inhibition activity in l-5-hydroxy-tryptophan (l-5-HTP)-treated mice. YM992 and trazodone attenuated 5-HT2A/2C receptor agonist-induced head-twitches in mice, indicating that these drugs had 5-HT2A receptor antagonistic activity. YM992 and amitriptyline were highly active in the mouse tail suspension test. In contrast, fluoxetine and citalopram showed only a tendency to reduce the immobility time. Single treatment with YM992 as well as trazodone and fluoxetine ameliorated the learning deficit of olfactory-bulbectomized rats, whereas citalopram and amitriptyline showed an ameliorative effect only after chronic treatment. Although YM992 has moderate affinity for alpha1-adrenoceptors, alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonism of YM992 in vivo was 10 times weaker than that of trazodone. These results demonstrate that YM992 has 5-HT uptake inhibition and 5-HT2A receptor antagonistic activity in vivo, and suggest that YM992 may be a novel antidepressant with high efficacy in clinical use.

We investigated the effects of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) on changes in cortical concentrations of acetylcholine (ACh) and monoamines produced by concussion in mice. Concussion was induced by dropping a metal rod on the head, and the concentration of ACh, norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) in the cerebral cortex were measured by HPLC. We also examined the arousal effects of 0.5 mg/kg of TRH and 0.015 mg/kg of L-pyro-2-aminoadipyl-histidyl-thiazolidine-4-carboxamide (MK-771), a TRH analogue, injected intraperitoneally 10 min before concussion, on neurotransmitter concentrations. Mice were sacrificed at 25 (representing the righting reflex time) and 210 s (representing spontaneous movement time). At 25 s after concussion, the concentration of ACh was significantly higher than in control mice, but pretreatment with TRH and MK-771 prevented the rise in ACh. In contrast, head injury significantly reduced NE concentration. TRH and MK-771 also prevented the fall in NE. Concussion did not change cortical concentrations of DA and 5-HT. Our results suggest that disturbances of consciousness produced by concussion may be due to increased ACh and diminished NE in the cerebral cortex. Our findings also suggest that the arousal effects of TRH on concussion-induced disturbances of consciousness are due to normalization of cortical cholinergic and noradrenergic neuronal systems.
Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, the expression of type 1 neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptors (Y1-Rs) has been demonstrated in the rat genital tract. In the male Y1-R mRNA and Y1-R-like immunoreactivity (LI) were found in smooth muscles of predominantly arterioles and small arteries inside testis. Fibers showing NPY-LI could not be detected within testis but only in the tunica albuginea. These Y1-Rs are suggested to mediate vasoconstriction, possibly activated by NPY released from nerves in the tunica albuginea. In the female rat Y1-R mRNA, but not Y1-R-LI was found in vascular smooth muscles of arteries in the ovary and oviduct. In the oviduct Y1-R mRNA was also detected in the non-vascular smooth muscle layer. Fibers showing NPY-LI were found around blood vessels both in the ovary and oviduct. In the female genital tract also Y1-Rs may thus be involved in regulatory mechanisms mediating, for example, vasoconstriction.
FMRFamide-related peptides have been isolated from both invertebrates and vertebrates and exhibit a wide range of biological effects in rats. We show here that in humans 2 FMRFamide-related peptides are encoded by a single gene expressed as a spliced mRNA. The larger predicted peptide (AGEGLNSQFWSLAAPQRFamide) differs from the peptide isolated from bovines (AGEGLSSPFWSLAAPQRFamide) by the substitutions of 2 amino acids. The shorter predicted peptide (NPSF, SQAFLFQPQRFamide) is 3 amino acids longer than the bovine 8 amino-acid NPFF (FLFQPQRFamide) or the human NPFF peptide isolated from serum [5], suggesting that the encoded protein is subject to cleavage by a tripeptidyl peptidase or by a novel processing mechanism. On rat spinal cord, the larger peptide is indistinguishable in activity from the equivalent bovine peptide whereas the smaller extended peptide is inactive.


When examining the effects of peptide analogues without proliferation-inducing activity on three human CD4+ T cell clones with distinct TCRbeta recognizing a nonself mycobacterial bacillus Calmette-Guerin a (BCGa) peptide fragment (EEYLILSARDVLAVVSK)/HLA-DR14 complex, we found that 1) stimulation of T cells with a one-residue-substituted analogue or a minimally homologous self peptide fragment derived from human connexin 26 (IMILVVAAKEVWGDEQA) can prolong the in vitro survival of T cells, in a clone specific-manner; 2) this prolongation is associated with the up-regulation of Bcl-xL without proliferation; and 3) these peptide-clone combinations are capable of inducing lymphokine secretion. Thus, peptide partial agonism may play a role in the survival of not only thymocytes but also mature T cells, in the absence of wild-type ligands.
The effectiveness of NMDA antagonists in modulating the motor and motivational effects of opiates is attributed, in part, to functional associations involving NMDA receptors and micro-opioid receptors (MORs) in the shell of the nucleus accumbens (Acb). To determine the subcellular sites for potential functional interactions between opiate ligands and NMDA receptors in this region, we examined the ultrastructural localization of antipeptide antisera against MOR and the R1 subunit of the NMDA receptor in the Acb shell of the adult rat brain. MOR-like immunoreactivity (MOR-LI) was seen primarily in dendrites, whereas NMDAR1-like immunoreactivity (NMDAR1-LI) was detected more often in axon terminals forming asymmetric synapses. In these profiles, MOR labeling was localized mainly to extrasynaptic plasma membranes, whereas NMDAR1-LI was associated with both synaptic and extrasynaptic sites. Of 307 MOR-labeled processes, 17.9% of the dendrites and 9.4% of the axon terminals also contained NMDAR1-LI. In addition, 24.7% of the dendrites containing only MOR-LI were apposed to NMDAR1-labeled axons or terminals. We conclude that in the shell of the Acb, the output of single neurons can be dually modulated by (1) activation of MOR and NMDA receptors in the same dendrites or (2) combined activation of presynaptic NMDA receptors in afferents contacting dendrites containing MOR. In addition, the colocalization of MOR and NMDAR1 in certain axon terminals in the Acb suggests their dual involvement in the presynaptic release of neurotransmitters in this region.
The aim of the present study was to monitor the influence of chronic stress on functional recovery from a sciatic nerve crush lesion in the rat. Male Wistar rats underwent standard unilateral sciatic nerve crush. Subsequently, chronic stress was induced during the recovery phase using a daily 30 min shock box session where rats received three electric footshocks each session (0.5 sec, 1 mA). Reduced body weight gain, adrenal gland hypertrophy, and thymus involution indicated that the stress rats were chronically stressed. Evaluation of sensorimotor function revealed significant differences in recovery between control and stress groups. Correlational analysis of individual stress rats indicated that recovery of the walking pattern was negatively correlated with adrenal gland and medulla enlargement, thymus involution, and plasma levels of adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone 45 min following the final stress session. In control rats, the index of sciatic nerve function (SF index, expressed as the difference between the injured paw and the intact contralateral paw as a percentage) was significantly correlated with adrenal medulla weight only. The present study reveals that chronic intermittent footshock stress impedes sensorimotor recovery following a sciatic nerve crush lesion and that the consequences of chronic intermittent stress are individually determined. We suggest that the quality of functional locomotor recovery after nerve crush lesion is related to the adaptive capacity or coping style of the individual rat.
The BM89 antigen, first identified in porcine brain by means of a monoclonal antibody, is a neuron-specific molecule widely distributed in the mammalian central and peripheral nervous system (Merkouri and Matsas: Neuroscience 50:53-68, 1992). Here we describe the purification of BM89 antigen from porcine and mouse brain by immunoaffinity chromatography using, respectively, the previously described BM89 monoclonal antibody which belongs to the IgM class and a specific polyclonal antibody generated in the present study. This antibody was also used for the cDNA cloning of the BM89 antigen from mouse brain. cDNA sequencing revealed that the mouse BM89 antigen is identical with the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin which is implicated in the control of regulated exocytosis and neurotransmitter release. Mouse BM89 antigen/synaptophysin exhibits, except for one extra amino acid, 100% identity with rat synaptophysin and substantial sequence identity with bovine (92.5% identity) and human (94.8% identity) synaptophysin, but only 59.8% identity with Torpedo synaptophysin. Northern and Western blot analyses confirmed that the mouse BM89 antigen/synaptophysin is expressed only in neural tissues.
1. There is no general agreement on the presence or role of Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release in smooth muscle. In this paper, Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release has been investigated in rat resistance-sized superior cerebral arteries to determine its role in regulating the cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i). 2. Pressurized superior cerebral arteries developed spontaneous oscillations in diameter. These oscillations were abolished by ryanodine (an inhibitor of Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release) and removal of extracellular Ca2+. This suggests, indirectly, that Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release may regulate [Ca2+]i in the resistance arteries. 3. To determine if Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release could regulate [Ca2+]i, single smooth muscle cells were isolated from the superior cerebral artery, voltage clamped in the whole cell configuration and high temporal resolution [Ca2+]i measurements made. The relationship between the Ca2+ current (ICa) and rise in [Ca2+]i was examined. 4. Depolarization triggered ICa and increased [Ca2+]i. The time course of the measured increase in [Ca2+]i closely followed the increase in [Ca2+]i expected from the time-integrated ICa, although about 140-fold more Ca2+ entered the cytosol than appeared as free Ca2+. When the cells were dialysed with ryanodine (30 microM), the Ca2+ transient evoked by the ICa was substantially reduced indicating that Ca2+ influx triggered Ca2+ release from an internal store. 5. Voltage pulses to negative membrane potentials were more effective in triggering Ca2+ release than pulses to positive potentials suggesting that the Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release was voltage dependent. However, the release of Ca2+ from the internal store triggered by caffeine was voltage independent. These results suggest that the voltage dependence of Ca2+ release is indirect and possibly related to the plasmalemma unitary Ca2+ current magnitude. 6. The results establish that Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release contributes to depolarization-evoked increases in [Ca2+]i in rat resistance-sized superior cerebral arteries over the physiological [Ca2+]i range (100-200 nM). Compared with more positive membrane potentials the efficacy of Ca2+ in triggering release is high at physiological membrane potentials.
In the 19th century, American physicians were drawn to the renowned medical centers of Europe, beacons of excellence in all areas of clinical science, to complement and supplement medical education and training. Such Old World master surgeons as Victor Horsley and William Macewen constantly reported novel and innovative operative procedures, including a significant number of operations on the spine and spinal cord. In this same era, a number of American surgeons made important contributions to the emerging specialty of spine surgery. The lives and work of Alban Smith, Berthold Hadra, DeForest Willard, and Robert Abbe are submitted in this report as examples.
Functional responses of primary sensory afferents and spinal cord were monitored in swine subjected to a high cervical (C1) spinal transection. Two and a half hours after transection, dorsal root ganglia and cervical and thoracolumbar spinal segments were processed immunocytochemically for the c-fos gene product, Fos and related antigens. In spinal-transected animals, Fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI) was induced in spinal laminae I, V, VII and X and the intermediolateral cell column but not in sensory ganglia as compared to controls: spinal-intact age-matched littermates. Spinal laminae expressing FLI harbor sympathetic and somatic interneurons and may aid in maintaining sympathetic outflow.
Cognitive functions regulated by the prefrontal cortex are sensitive to changes in dopaminergic and serotoninergic transmission. The non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist ketamine influences dopaminergic transmission and induces psychotic symptoms in normal and schizophrenic individuals. This study examined the effect of single and repeated ketamine (25 mg/kg, i.p.) administration on extracellular levels of dopamine, GABA and the serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic (5-HIAA) acid in the medial prefrontal cortex using in vivo microdialysis in conscious rat. In line with earlier studies, we observed a transient five-fold increase in dopamine release following single ketamine administration in drug naive animals. However, we also observed a two-fold increase in basal dopamine levels and an almost complete attenuation of the ketamine-induced increase in dopamine release in animals pre-treated with ketamine once daily for 7 days. Extracellular 5-HIAA levels were increased by ketamine in both drug naive and even more enhanced in ketamine-pre-treated animals but without a change in basal 5-HIAA levels. GABA levels were unaffected by either single or repeated ketamine administration. We demonstrate evidence for a differential effect of single and repeated ketamine administration on dopamine, serotonin and GABA transmission in the medial prefrontal cortex. We provide new evidence for a complex adaptation of neurotransmission following repeated NMDA receptor blockade whereby in the presence of increased basal dopamine levels the ketamine-induced increase in dopamine is attenuated and the increase in 5-HIAA is enhanced. It appears from our results that ketamine pre-treatment reduces the dynamics of dopaminergic transmission in the prefrontal cortex and may possibly alter the balance between dopamine and serotonin transmission.
A G(i)-protein antibody AS/7 at 1:10 dilution significantly increased the K(d) values of the D2 agonist [3H]N-propylnorapomorphine (NPA) binding sites in the rat striatal membranes, and coincubation with sulphated cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8; 1 nM) did not further increase the K(d) values. A GTP analogue guanylyl-imidodiphosphate (GMP-PNP) at 100 microM markedly increased the K(d) values of the [3H]NPA binding sites in the rat forebrain sections, and coincubation with CCK-8 (1 nM) again did not produce a further increase in the K(d) values. The present results indicate that abnormal activity of G-proteins abolished the ability of CCK-8 to reduce the D2 receptor affinity in the brain.
Extracellular levels of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate in the nervous system are maintained by transporters that actively remove glutamate from the extracellular space. Homozygous mice deficient in GLT-1, a widely distributed astrocytic glutamate transporter, show lethal spontaneous seizures and increased susceptibility to acute cortical injury. These effects can be attributed to elevated levels of residual glutamate in the brains of these mice.
Glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and neurturin (NTN) are two structurally related, potent survival factors for sympathetic, sensory and central nervous system neurons. GDNF mediates its actions through a multicomponent receptor system composed of a ligand-binding glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI)-linked protein (designated GDNFR-alpha) and the transmembrane protein tyrosine kinase Ret. In contrast, the mechanism by which the NTN signal is transmitted is not well understood. Here we describe the identification and tissue distribution of a GPI-linked protein (designated NTNR-alpha) that is structurally related to GDNFR-alpha. We further demonstrate that NTNR-alpha binds NTN (K[d] approximately 10 pM) but not GDNF with high affinity; that GDNFR-alpha binds to GDNF but not NTN with high affinity; and that cellular responses to NTN require the presence of NTNR-alpha. Finally, we show that NTN, in the presence of NTNR-alpha, induces tyrosine-phosphorylation of Ret, and that NTN, NTNR-alpha and Ret form a physical complex on the cell surface. These findings identify Ret and NTNR-alpha as signalling and ligand-binding components, respectively, of a receptor for NTN and define a novel family of receptors for neurotrophic and differentiation factors composed of a shared transmembrane protein tyrosine kinase and a ligand-specific GPI-linked protein.

A dose of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA, 50 ng) that induces penile erection and yawning when injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, increased the concentration of NO2- from 1.10 +/- 0.28 microM to 7.32 +/- 1.12 microM and of NO3 from 4.96 +/- 0.69 microM to 10.5 +/- 1.61 microM in the paraventricular dialysate obtained from male rats by in vivo microdialysis. NO2- concentration was not increased by (+/-)-alpha-(amino)-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA, 100 ng) or by trans-(+/-)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid (ACPD) (100 ng), which were unable to induce these behavioral responses. N-Methyl-D-aspartic acid effect on NO2- concentration, penile erection and yawning was prevented by dizolcipine (MK-801) (10-100 ng) or by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (20 microg), but not by the oxytocin receptor antagonist [d(CH2)5,Tyr(Me)2,Orn8]vasotocin (100 ng), or by the guanylate cyclase inhibitor methylene blue (20 microg) given in the paraventricular nucleus 15 min before N-methyl-D-aspartic acid or by the dopamine receptor antagonist haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg) given intraperitoneally 30 min before N-methyl-D-aspartic acid. In contrast, the nitric oxide scavenger hemoglobin (20 microg) given in the paraventricular nucleus prevented N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-induced NO2- concentration increase, but was unable to prevent penile erection and yawning. The results suggest that N-methyl-D-aspartic acid induces penile erection and yawning by increasing nitric oxide synthase activity in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, possibly in the cell bodies of oxytocinergic neurons projecting to extra-hypothalamic brain areas and mediating these behavioral responses.
In the present paper, we examined the effect of the adenoviral vector dosage, the role of T cells, and the influence of the presence of replication-competent adenovirus (RCA) in adenoviral vector stocks, on the efficacy of adenoviral vector-directed transgene expression in the facial nucleus of immunocompetent Wistar and athymic nude rats. A small number of motor neurons and glial cells was transduced at low dosages of viral vector (1 x 10(6) pfu) and in the absence of RCA, and transgene-expressing cells persisted throughout the 3-week period of observation. Intraparenchymal infusion of 2 x 10(7) pfu of a recombinant adenoviral vector free of RCA was required for optimal transduction of facial motor neurons. In Wistar rats, a biphasic immune response occurred at higher dosages of the vector (5 x 10(6) and 2 x 10(7) pfu) that was characterized by early infiltration of macrophages and the occurrence of T cells during the second week after injection of the vector. The immune response was associated with the loss of transduced neural cells. In nude rats, administration of an adenoviral vector free of RCA resulted in a macrophage response comparable to that in the Wistar rat and long-term survival of transduced astroglial cells. However, transduced motor neurons degenerated according to a similar time course as observed in Wistar rats. Small amounts of RCA (2 x 10(5) pfu) injected with 2 x 10(7) pfu recombinant viral vector particles resulted in an accelerated T cell response and a rapid elimination of transduced cells within 1 week in Wistar rats, whereas in nude rats transgene expression continued during this period. Taken together, these observations suggest that at the high viral vector loads necessary to achieve optimal transduction of the facial nucleus, T cells play a role in the degeneration of adenoviral vector-transduced astroglial cells. The adverse effects on neurons appear to be due to the observed inflammatory response or to direct adenoviral vector toxicity.
Modulation of the cholinergic neurotransmitter system results in changes in memory performance, including working memory (WM), in animals and in patients with Alzheimer disease. To identify associated changes in the functional brain response, we studied performance measures and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) using positron emission tomography (PET) in healthy subjects during performance of a WM task. Eight control subjects received an infusion of saline throughout the study and 13 experimental subjects received a saline infusion for the first 2 scans followed by a continuous infusion of physostigmine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, for the subsequent 8 scans. rCBF was measured using H215O and PET in a sequence of 10 PET scans that alternated between rest and task scans. During task scans, subjects performed the WM task for faces. Physostigmine both improved WM efficiency, as indicated by faster reaction times, and reduced WM task-related activity in anterior and posterior regions of right midfrontal gyrus, a region shown previously to be associated with WM. Furthermore, the magnitudes of physostigmine-induced change in reaction time and right midfrontal rCBF correlated. These results suggest that enhancement of cholinergic function can improve processing efficiency and thus reduce the effort required to perform a WM task, and that activation of right prefrontal cortex is associated with task effort.
Ligand-gated ion channels display a fundamental property-channels remain virtually closed at rest and open upon agonist binding. Here we show that substituting alanines for either of two amino acid residues (T314 or L317) in the M2 region of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) rho1 subunit results in spontaneous channel opening in the absence of ligand. Surprisingly, for two single point mutants (T314A or L317A), application of very low concentrations of agonist partially suppressed this spontaneous current, while higher concentrations re-activated the receptors. When both of these sites were mutated (T314A/L317A), GABA nearly completely suppressed the constitutive current and did not re-activate the current even at very high concentrations. This study provides important new insights into the structure-function relationship of ligand-gated ion channels, where modification of the structure of the channel pore region not only alters the allosteric transition of the receptor protein but also reverses the polarity of agonist regulation of channel gating. Our results suggest that the sites where these two residues are located are structurally critical for channel gating.
We have developed a method to target gene expression in the Drosophila embryo to a specific cell without having a promoter that directs expression in that particular cell. Using a digitally enhanced imaging system to identify single cells within the living embryo, we apply a heat shock to each cell individually by using a laser microbeam. A 1- to 2-min laser treatment is sufficient to induce a heat-shock response but is not lethal to the heat-shocked cells. Induction of heat shock was measured in a variety of cell types, including neurons and somatic muscles, by the expression of beta-galactosidase from an hsp26-lacZ reporter construct or by expression of a UAS target gene after induction of hsGAL4. We discuss the applicability of this technique to ectopic gene expression studies, lineage tracing, gene inactivation studies, and studies of cells in vitro. Laser heat shock is a versatile technique that can be adapted for use in a variety of research organisms and is useful for any studies in which it is desirable to express a given gene in only a distinct cell or clone of cells, either transiently or constitutively, at a time point of choice.
Rim protein (RmP) is a high-Mr membrane glycoprotein that has been localized to the rims of photoreceptor outer segment discs, but its molecular identity is unknown. Here, we describe the purification of RmP and present the sequence of its mRNA. RmP is a new member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily. We show that RmP is expressed specifically in photoreceptors and predominantly in outer segments. Further, RmP is identical to the protein recently shown to be affected in recessive Stargardt's disease. RmP is the first ABC transporter observed in photoreceptors and may play a role in the photoresponse.
In the quail brain, aromatase-immunoreactive (ARO-ir) neurons located in the medial preoptic nucleus (POM) and caudal paleostriatum ventrale/nucleus accumbens/nucleus striae terminalis complex (PVT/nAc/nST) receive catecholaminergic inputs identified by the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-ir) fibers and punctate structures. The origin of these inputs was analyzed by retrograde tracing with cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) or red latex fluospheres (RLF) combined with TH immunocytochemistry. CTB and RLF injected in the POM or PVT/nAc/nST were found in cells located in anatomically discrete areas in the telencephalon (hippocampus, septum, archistriatum), hypothalamus (many areas in periventricular position), thalamus, mesencephalon, and pons. In these last two regions, many retrogradely labeled cells were located in dopaminergic areas such as the retroruberal field (RRF), substantia nigra (SN), and area ventralis of Tsai (AVT) but also in noradrenergic cell groups such as the locus ceruleus and subceruleus. CTB tracing showed that most of these connections are bidirectional. Many retrogradely labeled cells contained TH-ir material. As a mean, 10-20% and 40-60% of the RLF-containing cells in the dopaminergic areas were TH-ir when RLF had been injected in the POM or PVT/nAc/nST, respectively. TH-ir cells projecting to the POM appeared to be mostly located in the periventricular hypothalamus and in AVT, whereas projections to the PVT/nAc/nST originated mainly in the SN (with significant contributions from the RRF and AVT). These data support the existence of functional relationships between aromatase and catecholamines.
The structurally related neurokinin peptides, substance P and neurokinin A, are found in abundance within the substantia nigra of a variety of mammalian species. Although it has been established recently that the neurokinin-3 (NK3) receptor is the predominant neurokinin receptor found in rat substantia nigra and adjacent midbrain nuclei, the nature of the neurokinin receptor expressed in human midbrain has not been elucidated. In the present study, neurokinin receptor messenger RNA (mRNA) content within rat and human midbrain were directly compared by using quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry. In contrast to the high abundance of NK3 receptor mRNA within dopamine (DA) cells of the rat midbrain, neurokinin-1 (NK1), but not NK3, receptor mRNA was localized to human midbrain DA cells. Within the human midbrain, the abundance of NK1 receptor mRNA differed significantly among the distinct DA cell-containing nuclei, with the highest level of expression seen in several subdivisions of the substantia nigra. Thus different neurokinin receptor subtypes apparently mediate the effects of substance P and neurokinin A on human versus rat DA neurons.
Endogenous opioid peptides serve as growth factors in developing, renewing, and neoplastic cells and tissues. This study examined the hypothesis that opioids serve to modulate the homeostatic renewal of ocular surface epithelium in the rat. DNA synthesis in the epithelium of the central (CC) and peripheral (PC) cornea, limbus (LM), and conjunctiva (CN) was investigated using adult male rats. Animals received an injection of opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met5]-enkephalin, OGF and naloxone (NAL), NAL alone, naltrexone (NTX), or an equivalent volume of sterile water (CO) and sacrificed 4 h later (i.e. 16:00 h). [3H]thymidine was administered 1 h before sacrifice. With the exception of NTX (20 mg/kg), all compounds were given at 10 mg/kg. Examination of 5 time points over an 18-h period revealed no variation in DNA synthesis within a region of ocular surface basal epithelium (BE). OGF depressed DNA synthesis of the BE by 25, 48, and 50% in the PC, LM, and CN, respectively; little labeling was recorded in the BE of the CC. Exposure to OGF-NAL or NAL alone did not alter DNA synthesis of the BE. Complete blockade of OGF-zeta receptor interaction by administration of the potent opioid antagonist, NTX, increased the number of epithelial cells in the PC, LM, and CN undergoing DNA synthesis by 30 to 72%. The effects of OGF and NTX on DNA synthesis of BE also were observed in an organ culture setting. Utilizing immunocytochemistry, OGF and its receptor zeta were associated with both the basal and the suprabasal cells of the ocular surface epithelium. These results indicate that an endogenous opioid peptide, OGF, and its receptor are present and govern homeostatic cellular renewal processes in ocular surface epithelium. OGF regulates DNA synthesis in a direct manner, and does so by a tonic, inhibitory, and receptor-mediated mechanism.
Subcutaneously (s.c.) administered [Arg8]vasopressin (AVP) potentiated seizures induced by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of 1.95 mg pilocarpine (a muscarinic cholinergic agonist). A bell-shaped relation between dose and effect was found. I.c.v. pretreatment with a V1, V2 or oxytocin receptor antagonist was performed to determine whether and what type of receptor is involved in this proconvulsive effect of vasopressin. For these experiments a higher dose of pilocarpine (2.4 mg i.c.v.) was injected. This caused seizures in a slightly but not significantly higher percentage of the rats. A dose-dependent protective action of the V2 receptor antagonist d(CH2),[D-Ile2,Ile4]AVP (effective doses were 25 and 125 ng) on seizures was found. A reduction was observed in the number of animals that developed tonic-clonic convulsions. Neither the V1 receptor antagonist d(CH2)5[Tyr(Me)2]AVP nor the oxytocin receptor antagonist desGly(NH2)9d(CH2)5[Tyr(Me)2Thr4]OVT possessed anti-convulsive activity. Subsequently the type of receptor was studied in detail with fragments of AVP with either V1 or V2 activity. AVP (with V1 and V2 affinity) (1 and 3 microg s.c.) potentiated pilocarpine (1.95 mg) induced seizures. Vasotocin and oxytocin were without effect. Interestingly neither s.c. nor i.c.v. administration of the selective kidney type vasopressin receptor (V2) agonist dDAVP potentiated pilocarpine induced seizures. Several selective antidiuretic agonists (V2), such as d[Val4]AVP, d[Phe2,Val4,D-Arg8]vasopressin (3 microg), [Val4,D-Arg8]vasopressin (3 microg) and d[Val4,D-Arg8]vasopressin (3 microg) were active. Other selective antidiuretic compounds, such as [Val4]AVP, dAVP, d[Tyr(Me)2]AVP and HO[D-Arg8]vasopressin (3 microg) did not influence seizures. These results demonstrate that a combination of substitution of aminoacid 4 (Gln) by Val and to a lesser extent deamination and the D-arginine form yield an active molecule, which can potentiate pilocarpine induced seizures and suggest the existence of a V2 receptor subtype in the brain.
Skin sympathetic nerve activities (SSNAs) were recorded simultaneously from the tibial and peroneal nerves by microneurography at an ambient temperature of 25 degrees C in five subjects with primary palmoplantar hyperhidrosis. The resting of the tibial SSNA innervating the sole (glabrous skin) increased moderately (36.5 +/- 1.5 bursts/min), while mental arithmetic provoked marked responses (1,003.3 +/- 457.4% compared with the resting level) in the hyperhidrosis group compared with the control normohidrosis group (n = 5, 25.3 +/ 4.2 bursts/min and 142.2 +/- 58.4%, respectively). Differentiation of the tibial SSNA into sudomotor (innervating sweat glands) and vasoconstrictor (innervating presphincter of skin vessels) revealed that this SSNA enhancement was attributable to not only sudomotor but also vasoconstrictor components during mental arithmetic. In contrast, the responses in the peroneal SSNA (innervating the dorsum pedis, hairy skin) of the hyperhidrosis group were only slightly changed, exhibiting no significant difference from those in the normohidrosis group. Reflex bursts elicited by sound and electric stimulation were normal in amplitude and latency. When the ambient temperature was elevated to 30 degrees C, the tibial SSNAs became more enhanced than did the peroneal SSNAs. The tibial SSNA was markedly enhanced in the hyperhidrosis group (290.0 +/- 78.5%) compared with the normohidrosis group (78.3 +/- 25.4%). We conclude that the excessive responses in SSNA to the plantar glabrous skin to both mental and thermal stimuli may be responsible for the profuse sweating in subjects with primary palmoplantar hyperhidrosis.
Most cases of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease are caused by mutations in the presenilin genes. Presenilin-1 (PS1) is subject to proteolytic cleavage resulting in the accumulation of N- and C-terminal fragments. In this report, we show that the proteolytic cleavage of PS1 is developmentally regulated in the brain. Low levels of full-length PS1 and higher levels of 30-kDa N-terminal and 20-kDa C-terminal fragments are identified at all developmental stages in the rat brain. However, in the adult brain, additional 36-kDa N-terminal and 14-kDa C-terminal fragments appear and become major PS1 species. Alternative N-terminal PS1 fragments also appear in the adult human brain, but are more heterogenous than in the rat brain. The alternative PS1 fragments are not detected at significant levels in rat or human peripheral tissues that express PS1. The alternative cleavage of PS1 is also detected in primary cultures of rat hippocampal neurons, but not in astrocytes, and is induced by neuronal differentiation. Furthermore, alternative PS1 cleavage is detected in rat PC12 cells and human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells following induction of neuronal differentiation. These results suggest that an alternative pathway of PS1 proteolytic processing is induced in the brain by neuronal differentiation. PS1 may therefore play an important role in brain development and neuronal function, which may relate to the brain-specific pathological effects of PS1 mutations.
The present report describes a desktop computer-based method for the quantitative assessment of the area occupied by immunoreactive terminals in close apposition to nerve cells in relation to the perimeter of the cell soma. This method is based on Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) routines incorporated in NIH-Image public domain software. Pyramidal cells of layer V of the somatosensory cortex outlined by GABA immunolabeled terminals were chosen for our analysis. A Leitz Diaplan light microscope was employed for the visualization of the sections. A Sierra Scientific Model 4030 CCD camera was used to capture the images into a Macintosh Centris 650 computer. After preprocessing, filtering was performed on the power spectrum in the frequency domain produced by the FFT operation. An inverse FFT with filter procedure was employed to restore the images to the spatial domain. Pasting of the original image to the transformed one using a Boolean logic operation called 'AND'ing produced an image with the terminals enhanced. This procedure allowed the creation of a binary image using a well-defined threshold of 128. Thus, the terminal area appears in black against a white background. This methodology provides an objective means of measurement of area by counting the total number of pixels occupied by immunoreactive terminals in light microscopic sections in which the difficulties of labeling intensity, size, shape and numerical density of terminals are avoided.
Cells from primary cultures of four glioblastomas (GB), three low-grade astrocytomas (A), and four low-grade oligodendrogliomas (O) were tested for the presence of neuroligand receptors linked to Ca2+ signalling by calcium imaging. Cells of days 3 to 21 in culture were incubated with 5 microM fluo-3-acetomethylester in a bath solution and stimulated with 0.1 mM ATP, 0.01 mM angiotensin II, bradykinin, histamine, norepinephrine, serotonin, and substance P for 15 s, with 0.01 mM glutamate and 50 mM K+ for 30 s. Changes in the Ca2+ concentration were measured with a confocal laser scanning microscope. In all glioma subtypes, the majority of cells showed Ca2+ responses after application of histamine (60% of cells tested in GB, 67% in A, 86% in O), bradykinin (66% in GB, 29% in A, 55% in O) and ATP (48% in GB, 70% in A, 47% in O). The other stimuli induced Ca2+ transients in a smaller proportion (between 33% and 2%) of the cells. Our study demonstrates that histamine, bradykinin and ATP are potent inducers of [Ca2+]i signals in gliomas.
Axonal branching patterns in the brachial segments of cervical reticulospinal neurons (C-RSNs) were examined in cats using intraaxonal injection of horseradish peroxidase (HRP). Axons of these neurons were electrophysiologically identified by their projection to the lower cervical but not to the lumbar segments and monosynaptic activation after tectal and pyramidal stimulation. Six axons were stained up to terminals. Their stem axons descended in the ventral funiculus near the boundary of the spinal gray. The majority of collateral axons crossed lamina VIII and distributed terminals in the whole area of lamina VIII, the middle part of lamina VII, the lateral 2/3 of lamina VI, the ventral part of lamina V, and sparsely in the limb motor nuclei. Their possible functional role in head orienting movements is discussed.
We tested the hypothesis that inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) following transection of the sciatic nerve in the mouse would adversely influence regeneration of myelinated fibers from the proximal stump. NOS was inhibited by N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester (L-NAME; 10 mg/kg i.p.), a broad spectrum NOS inhibitor given twice daily for the first 10 days following nerve transection in Swiss mice. Controls received the inactive enantiomer N(omega)-nitro-D-arginine methyl ester (D-NAME). Regeneration was assessed by serial recordings of the M potential from interosseous muscles of the foot innervated by sciatic-tibial motor fibers and morphometric analysis of myelinated fibers distal to the injury site. Contrary to expectation, M potentials reappeared earlier in the mice treated with L-NAME and were higher in amplitude (reflecting the number of reinnervating motor fibers) at 10 weeks after the injury. In the L-NAME treated mice, the mean axonal diameter of regenerating tibial myelinated fibers was larger and the fiber size histogram was shifted to larger fibers. Inhibition of NOS in a transected peripheral nerve is associated with enhanced regeneration of myelinated fibers. Local elaboration of NO may be toxic to regenerating axons.

These studies in anaesthetised rats showed, using intravital microscopy, that the novel anti-migraine agent, rizatriptan, significantly reduced electrically stimulated dural vasodilation but had no effect on increases in dural vessel diameter produced by exogenous substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Rizatriptan also significantly inhibited dural plasma protein extravasation produced by high intensity electrical stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion. We suggest that rizatriptan inhibits the release of sensory neuropeptides from perivascular trigeminal nerves to prevent neurogenic vasodilation and extravasation in the dura mater. These prejunctional inhibitory effects may be involved in the anti-migraine action of rizatriptan.
The 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist rizatriptan constricts intracranial, extracerebral blood vessels, inhibits neurogenic vasodilation and extravasation in the meninges and is effective clinically against migraine. The present study has investigated whether rizatriptan may also have activity at 5-HT(1B/1D) receptors within the central nervous system (CNS) that contributes to its antimigraine effects. Action potentials evoked by electrical stimulation of the dura-mater were recorded extracellularly from single neurones in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis in anaesthetized rats. Rizatriptan dose dependently inhibited these nociceptive dural responses by up to 63 +/- 9% after 3 mg/kg, i.v. Rizatriptan therefore has central activity which may contribute to its efficacy against migraine headache.
Using in situ hybridization, we have shown that the kappa-opioid receptor agonist enadoline (CI-977) and the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK-901) induced the immediate early gene c-fos in dorsal medial thalamic nuclei. Dizocilpine, and not enadoline, also induced c-fos in the posterior cingulate cortex and retrosplenial cortex. Enadoline's stimulation of c-fos mRNA was dose and time dependent and completely inhibited by pretreatment with naltrexone. Morphine did not stimulate c-fos in the thalamus. It is suggested that the stimulation of c-fos with enadoline represents a specific kappa-opioid receptor effect.
The expression of functional glycine receptors (GlyRs) by embryonic rat spinal cord neurons during development in vitro was investigated using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Functional GlyRs were expressed by most neurons within 1 day in vitro, and by all neurons from 4 days onward. However, the extent to which responses to glycine were blocked by the antagonist strychnine differed significantly between the first few days and 8 days in culture. Responses to glycine by neurons during the first few days in culture exhibited significantly less blockade by strychnine than those in neurons after 1 week in culture. Responses to glycine at both ages reflected an increased conductance to chloride ions, ruling out involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate type glutamate receptors, and were not due to cross activation of gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors. Monoclonal antibody 4a, which recognizes multiple subtypes of rat GlyR alpha subunits, labeled most neurons as early as 1 day in vitro, confirming that neurons express some form of GlyR alpha subunits by the first day in culture. These results show that rat spinal cord neurons express GlyRs early in their differentiation in vitro, and they suggest that individual neurons express as functional, cell-surface GlyRs a strychnine-insensitive isoform of the GlyR, possibly the previously described alpha 2* subunit. In addition, these results indicate that the expression of GlyR isoforms changes from predominantly a strychnine-insensitive isoform to other, strychnine-sensitive isoform(s) GlyR during development in vitro.
The role of myosins in Xenopus retinal ganglion cell growth cone motility in the optic tract was studied using two pharmacologic inhibitors with different specificities. 2,3-Butanedione monoxime (BDM) disrupts myosin-actin interactions of all myosins, and ML-7 specifically inhibits activation of myosin II. Both inhibitors caused growth cones to assume a collapsed morphology and decreased growth cone speed. Similar effects were observed in vitro. Interestingly, the effects of the two inhibitors, while similar, were clearly distinguishable, raising the possibility that different myosins may have different functional roles in growth cone motility. BDM caused growth cones to withdraw lamellipodia and some filopodia and eventually to freeze, whereas ML-7 caused total collapse and retraction. Concentrations of BDM and ML-7 that had no effect when applied independently stopped growth cones when applied simultaneously, suggesting that these inhibitors act synergistically on myosin function, thus providing evidence of specificity. These results imply that normal growth cone motility in the molecularly and spatially complex environment of the living brain requires myosin function.
The adult mammalian brain continues to harbor ependymal/subependymal zone (SZ) precursor cells, which can give rise to neurons in vitro. In adult rats, explants of the rostral 6-7 mm of the SZ give rise to neurons in vitro, and over this entire expanse, neuronal survival is supported specifically by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We asked whether either the (a) spatial distribution, (b) abundance, or (c) BDNF responsiveness of the neuronal precursor population was affected by age. Explants of three rostrocaudally defined regions were taken from both young and old rats (3 and 20 months old, respectively), and cultured in 2% fetal bovine serum-containing media with or without added BDNF (20 ng/ml). The extent of neuronal production by these explants varied only minimally with their level of derivation, such that substantial outgrowth was observed at each level tested. Neuronal outgrowth was marginally higher and more rapid in achieving its maximal extent in the 3-month-old rats compared with their aged counterparts, but neuronal outgrowth was robust at each age tested. The duration of survival of SZ-derived neurons did not differ between the young and old rats. At both ages, BDNF supported the survival of these new adult neurons. The extent of BDNF's influence was independent of both the age of the donor rat and the rostrocaudal level at which the parent SZ explant was taken. Thus, the neuronal precursors of the rat brain persist into senescence; the size of the precursor pool attenuates minimally with age, and its spatial extent remains constant. The neurons generated from these precursors can respond to BDNF throughout life.

The structure of membrane fusion intermediates between the A/PR/8(H1N1) strain of influenza virus and a liposome composed of egg phosphatidylcholine, cholesterol, and glycophorin was studied using quick-freezing electron microscopy. Fusion by viral hemagglutinin protein was induced at pH 5.0 and 23 degrees C. After a 19-s incubation under these conditions, small protrusions with a diameter of 10-20 nm were found on the fractured convex faces of the liposomal membranes, and small pits complementary to the protrusions were found on the concave faces. The protrusions and pits corresponded to fractured parts of outward bendings of the lipid bilayer or &quot;microprotrusions of the lipid bilayer.&quot; At the loci of the protrusions and pits, liposomal membranes had local contacts with viral membranes. In many cases both the protrusions and the pits were aligned in regular polygonal arrangements, which were thought to reflect the array of hemagglutinin spikes on the viral surface. These structures were induced only when the medium was acidic with the virus present. Based on these observations, it was concluded that the microprotrusions of the lipid bilayer are induced by hemagglutinin protein. Furthermore, morphological evidence for the formation of the &quot;initial fusion pore&quot; at the microprotrusion was obtained. The protrusion on the convex face sometimes had a tiny hole with a diameter of &lt;4 nm in the center. The pits transformed into narrow membrane connections &lt;10 nm in width, bridging viruses and liposomes. The structures of the fusion pore and fusion neck with larger sizes were also observed, indicating growth of the protrusions and pits to distinct fusion sites. We propose that the microprotrusion of the lipid bilayer is a fusion intermediate induced by hemagglutinin protein, and suggest that the extraordinarily high curvature of this membrane structure is a clue to the onset of fusion. The possible architecture of the fusion intermediate is discussed with regard to the localization of intramembrane particles at the microprotrusion.
To examine the possible role of interastrocytic gap junctions in the maintenance of tissue homeostasis after spinal cord damage, we initiated studies of the astrocytic gap junctional protein connexin43 (Cx43) in relation to temporal and spatial parameters of neuronal loss, reactive gliosis, and white matter survival in a rat model of traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI). Cx43 immunolocalization in normal and compression-injured spinal cord was compared by using two different sequence-specific anti-Cx43 antibodies that have previously exhibited different immunorecognition properties at lesion sites in brain. At 1- and 3-day survival times, gray matter areas with mild to moderate neuronal depletion exhibited a loss of immunolabeling with one of the two antibodies. At the lesion epicenter, these areas consisted of a zone that separated normal staining distal to the lesion from intensified labeling seen with both antibodies immediately adjacent to the lesion. Loss of immunoreactivity with only one of the two antibodies suggested masking of the corresponding Cx43 epitope. By 7 days post-SCI, Cx43 labeling was absent with both antibodies in all regions extending up to 1 mm from the lesion site. Reactive astrocytes displaying glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) appeared by 1 day and were prominent by 3 days post-SCI. Their distribution in white and gray matter corresponded closely to that of Cx43 staining at 1 day, but less so at 3 days when GFAP-positive profiles were present at sites where Cx43 labeling was absent. By 7 days post-SCI, Cx43 again co-localized with GFAP-positive cells in the surviving subpial rim, and with astrocytic processes on radially oriented vascular profiles investing the central borders of the lesion. The results indicate that alterations in Cx43 cellular localization and Cx43 molecular modifications reflected by epitope masking, which were previously correlated with gap junction remodeling following excitotoxin-induced lesions in brain, are not responses limited to exogenously applied excitotoxins; they also occur in damaged spinal cord and are evoked by endogenous mechanisms after traumatic SCI. The GFAP/Cx43 co-localization results suggest that during their transformation to a reactive state, spinal cord astrocytes undergo a transitional phase marked by altered Cx43 localization or expression.

Impairments of cognitive executive functions has been previously suspected to occur in Sleep Apnea Syndrome (SAS), as suggested by some neuropsychological studies. However such functions have not been assessed directly. In the present study, ten patients with SAS were evaluated with various focused frontal lobe-related tests in comparison with ten matched normal controls. Such tasks explored attention, short term memory spans, learning abilities, planning and programming capacities, categorizing activities and verbal fluency. Patients were found with a significant decreased ability to initiate new mental processes and to inhibit automatic ones in conjunction with a tendency for perseverative errors. They were also affected with deficits of verbal and visual learning abilities and they had reduced spans. Patients were submitted to continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) and further reevaluated after 4-6 months of treatment. Patients were found to have normalized most of their cognitive executive and learning disabilities, except for all the short-term memory tests which remained unchanged. These findings are discussed in light of data from the literature concerning cognitive impairments described for patients with isolated daytime sleepiness versus hypoxemia, as illustrated in other pathological or physiological circumstances. The contribution of frontal lobe-related systems in short-term memory functions is also taken into account.

A case of extraocular muscle enlargement diagnosed 2 months after the start of treatment with amiodarone is presented. The orbital CT scan was typical of endocrine ophthalmopathy. The patient had no history of hyperthyroidism and during a follow-up period of 2 years no laboratory evidence of irregularities in the thyroid hormone metabolism was discovered.
The influence of repeated administration of angiotensin II (AII) on smooth muscle calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) was studied in isolated rabbit renal afferent arterioles loaded with the calcium-sensitive fluorescent probe Fura-2. [Ca2+]i was evaluated in the proximal and distal parts of the afferent arterioles. AII (10(-8) M) increased the [Ca2+]i in both these regions. A second administration of AII, however, did not elicit any response in [Ca2+]i. The response to noradrenaline administration at the end of the experiment was not affected, i.e. there was no fading or cross-desensitization. Since this desensitization was specific for AII, it was of the tachyphylaxis type. Increasing doses of AII (10(-11)-10(-8) M) did not reverse the tachyphylaxis. However, in the proximal part, pretreatment with the voltage-sensitive calcium channel blocker nifedipine (10(-6) M) blunted the tachyphylactic effect of a second administration of AII. When L-arginine (L-Arg) was administered to the bath solution, thus activating the NO system, the development of tachyphylaxis was suppressed in the proximal region. Pretreatment with the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor chelerythrine (10(-6) M) did not affect the tachyphylaxis. We conclude that the calcium response to AII in the isolated rabbit afferent arteriole shows tachyphylaxis. This tachyphylaxis cannot be reversed by applying increasing doses of AII (10(-11)-10(-8) M). PKC does not seem to be involved in the tachyphylactic phenomenon in this preparation. It was also found that nifedipine and NO reduced the tachyphylaxis.
The aim of the present study was to explore a psychobiological perspective in the aetiology of social phobia. The emphasis was on serotonergic function and personality. A total of 20 social phobics according to ICD-10 DCR criteria were assessed with the Schedule for Clinical Assessment in Neuropsychiatry and the International Personality Disorder Examination. They were compared with an age-matched normal population with regard to scores on the Fear of Negative Evaluation Scale, the Social Avoidance and Distress Scale, the Temperament and Character Inventory, and platelet 5HT2 receptor function. Other Axis-I disorders and cluster C personality disorders were frequently encountered. The social phobia group was characterized by high levels of harm avoidance, and low levels of novelty seeking, co-operativeness and self-directedness. Platelet 5HT2 receptor density did not differentiate between the groups, but was associated with severity of social phobia. An integrated psychobiological model is presented.

A prevalent notion holds that acute anti-anxiety actions of ethanol are important for the reinforcing properties of this drug, and might predispose individuals with pre-existing anxiety disorders for developing ethanol dependence. This notion remains controversial, and human studies have yielded conflicting results. Ethanol dependence is likely a heterogenous disorder, and the discrepancies might be explained by a different relationship between anxiety and alcohol reinforcement in different subtypes of alcoholism. Recent results in experimental animals suggest that antianxiety actions of ethanol are important reinforcers of voluntary ethanol consumption in heterogeneous rats. Here, we examined whether the relationship is different in the AA line of rats bred for high voluntary ethanol intake. Behavior was studied in two established animal models of anxiety, a punished drinking conflict test, and the elevated plus maze. In the conflict test, the AA line displayed a markedly disinhibited behavior over a range of shock intensities, compared both with their counterpart, the ANA line, and with regular Wistar rats. On the plus maze, both AA and Wistar rats showed lower measures of experimental anxiety than ANA subjects. The phenotype of the animals was confirmed using a two-bottle free choice alcohol drinking procedure. The disinhibited behavior and spontaneous ethanol preference of the AA line differs from what has been found in heterogeneous rats, and displays similarities to genetically transmitted type II alcoholism according to the nomenclature of Cloninger.
A possible relationship exists between the increased relative crash risk of older drivers and the prevalence of age-related diseases such as dementia. However, although dementia effects cognitive functions essential for safe driving, the evaluation of driving competence in demented persons is problematic. A clear-cut policy, intended chiefly for primary care physicians, is still lacking. In recognition of this fact, the Swedish National Road Administration invited a group of researchers to review existing research and to formulate a consensus on the issue of driving and dementia. The consensus group suggested that physicians should routinely make a cursory evaluation of the mental condition of their older driving patients. When signs of cognitive impairment are detected, possible influence on visuospatial skills, attention, judgment, and memory functions should be carefully considered. Information from caregivers on past and current driving performance as well as functions relating to activities of daily living (ADL) should be taken into account. Consensus was reached that a diagnosis of moderate to severe dementia indicates sufficient cognitive impairment to preclude driving. In addition, diagnosed mildly demented individuals or nondiagnosed cognitively impaired individuals with functional deterioration should be considered for specialized assessment of driving competence.


Providing large numbers of general education students with an introduction to science is a challenge. To meet this challenge, a quarter-long neurophysiology project was developed for use in an introductory biology course. The primary goals of this multistep project were to introduce students to the scientific method, scientific writing, on-line scientific bibliographic databases, and the scientific literature, while improving their academic literacy skills. Students began by collecting data on their own circadian rhythms in autonomic, motor, and cognitive function, reliably demonstrating the predicted circadian changes in heart rate, eye-hand coordination, and adding speed. Students wrote a journal-style article using pooled class data. Students were prepared to write the paper by several methods that were designed to improve academic language skills, including a library training exercise, &quot;modeling&quot; of the writing assignment, and drafting of subsections of the paper. This multistep neurophysiology project represents a significant commitment of time by both students and instructors, but produces a valuable finished product and ideally gives introductory students a positive first experience with science.
Opioid growth factor (OGF; [Met5]enkephalin) inhibits DNA synthesis of epicardial and myocardial cells in the neonatal rat heart in a receptor-mediated fashion. Ligand binding assays using newborn rat heart and [3H][Met5]enkephalin were performed to characterize the receptor responsible for the cell replicative effects of OGF in developing heart. Specific and saturable binding was detected, and Scatchard analysis revealed that the data were consistent for a single binding site with a binding affinity of 6.8 +/- 0.3 nM and a binding capacity of 21.8 +/- 1.9 fmol/mg protein. Subcellular fractionation studies revealed that binding was restricted to the nuclear fraction. Competition experiments showed that cold [Met5]enkephalin was the most effective ligand at displacing [3H][Met5]enkephalin. Binding was recorded on gestation days 18 and 20, reached its highest level at birth, and steadily decreased from postnatal days 1 to 15; binding at days 21 and 35 and in adults was negligible. The function, pharmacological and biochemical characteristics, distribution, and subcellular location of this OGF receptor in developing mammalian heart are consistent with the zeta-opioid receptor.
Parabiosis experiments suggest that ob/ob mice are deficient in a circulating &quot;lipostatic&quot; signal but respond to such a signal when it is delivered in the cross circulation from their parabiotic partner. Identification of leptin as the mutation in ob/ob mice leads to the assumption that leptin is the lipostatic signal. The objective of these experiments was to determine the circulating half-life of leptin and to demonstrate whether it exchanged between parabiosed mice. Measurement of disappearance of recombinant leptin from serum in SWRJ mice indicated a circulating half-life of approximately 36 min. Single ob/ob mice or one member of a parabiosed pair of ob/ob mice received 50 micrograms recombinant murine leptin in two intraperitoneal injections a day for 10 days, starting 40 days after parabiosis surgery. Control mice and pairs received equivalent injections of vehicle. In single mice, leptin significantly reduced food intake, body weight, serum insulin, and pancreatic and liver weight. Leptin treatment of one member of a parabiosed pair of ob/ob mice reduced serum insulin, gut content (an index of food intake), and body fat in both partners. The injected parabiont lost more fat than its partner, and body temperature was increased only in the injected mouse, indicating that leptin did not reach equilibrium in the two animals. This was confirmed by Western blot analysis of serum leptin measured 2 h after injection. Therefore, although leptin can exchange between parabionts, its half-life is inadequate to allow equilibrium when a large concentration gradient exists between partners.
We previously showed that a febrile dose of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in rats resulted in induction of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) mRNA in brain blood vessels/leptomeninges and telencephalic neurons. To elucidate the causal link between fever and LPS-induced COX-2 mRNA, we experimentally modified one or the other of these parameters and examined their relation. 1) LPS-induced fever was suppressed by pretreatment with a COX-2-specific inhibitor. 2) Levels of COX-2 mRNA in the neurons and blood vessels 2.5 h after LPS administration were even higher in the inhibitor-pretreated rats (afebrile) than in vehicle-pretreated ones (febrile). 3) After repeated administration of LPS, rats became tolerant to LPS, in which state LPS induced neither fever nor COX-2 mRNA in blood vessels/leptomeninges. When rats had not completely established LPS tolerance, they showed various degrees of fever that were closely correlated with the level of COX-2 mRNA in blood vessels but not with that in neurons. 4) Urethan anesthesia reduced basal as well as LPS-induced COX-2 mRNA in telencephalic neurons, but the rats still responded to LPS with fever and induction of COX-2 mRNA in the blood vessels/leptomeninges. These results suggest that COX-2 induced in brain blood vessels/leptomeninges is involved in the molecular mechanism of LPS-induced fever.
An M-like K+ current (IKx) helps set the rod photoreceptor resting potential and accelerates the response to dim light. Recorded with ruptured-patch whole cell techniques, the amplitude of IKx diminished, and activation occurred at increasingly negative potentials as a function of time. In contrast, IKx was stable during nystatin perforated-patch recording. Stability during ruptured-patch recording could be induced by raising the intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) or by including caffeine or D-myo-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate in the pipette. This Ca(2+)-induced stability of IKx was blocked by inhibitors of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases, such as W-7, KN-62, chelerythrine, or H-7. Okadaic acid, an inhibitor of protein phosphatases, maintained IKx stability even at low [Ca2+]i. The requirement for phosphorylation was demonstrated by depleting MgATP or by providing 5'-adenylylimidophosphate, a nonhydrolyzable analog of ATP, either of which blocked the Ca(2+)-induced stability of IKx. These observations show that phosphorylation regulates IKx and that a stimulus controlling this action is [Ca2+]i. Should [Ca2+]i change during light adaptation, changes in IKx might alter the resting potential and temporal response properties of rod photoreceptors.


The parathyroid glands of the adult rat harbor a number of neuroendocrine markers, biologically active peptides and &quot;classical&quot; neuromessengers in addition to parathyroid hormone (PTH). Their appearance during parathyroid development is, however, not known. In the present study we have examined several neuroendocrine markers and neuromessengers in the parathyroid glands of the developing rat [embryonic stage 21(E21), newborn, 1, 2, 3, 4 week old, and adult rats] using immunocytochemistry. Chromogranin A- and PTH-mRNA were also examined by in situ hybridization and the mRNA levels were quantitated by computerized image analysis. Protein gene product 9.5- and synaptophysin-containing nerve fibers appeared already before birth and then gradually increased in number postnatally, and at the age of 4 weeks the nerve fibers were moderate in number to numerous. Nerve fibers containing calcitonin gene-related peptide, neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide also increased gradually in number, while galanin-, substance P- and tyrosine hydroxylase-containing fibers remained few throughout development. The glandular cells expressed chromogranin A, pancreastatin and PTH already before birth. The levels of chromogranin A- and PTH-mRNA were low at E21 and increased markedly at birth; chromogranin A mRNA levels had increased even more at 1 week postnatally. Three to 4 weeks after birth the levels of PTH- and chromogranin A mRNA again increased, then stabilized at a slightly lower level in the adult rat. Our findings demonstrate that the parathyroid glands of rat are already innervated and express PTH and chromogranin A before birth and that the density of peptide-containing nerve fibers changes during development. The stepwise increases of PTH- and chromogranin A mRNAs during development indicate marked changes in parathyroid activity occurring at birth and at weaning.
A fifty-five-year-old woman with a history of migraine suddenly developed an occipital headache and visual disturbance after a typical migrainous attack. On admission, she had a left homonymous hemianopsia, and computed tomography of the brain demonstrated intracranial hematomas in the occipital subcortices bilaterally. Cerebral arteriography revealed diffuse vasospasm of the intracranial arteries attributed to the migraine. The cystatin C concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid was low, which suggested the existence of cerebral amyloid angiopathy. According to the clinical course and angiographic findings, it is suggested that the vasospasm associated with migraine played an important role in developing multiple brain hemorrhage in this patient.
Ischaemic stroke is a recognized complication of chickenpox. Seven cases of ischaemic stroke in children after recent varicella infection are discussed in detail to emphasise that there are several mechanisms by which this may arise.

Removal of a vestibular organ deprives the ipsilateral vestibular nuclei of tonic excitatory inflow from vestibular afferents, and thus evokes a central asymmetry, that is imbalance between tonic activity of the left and right vestibular nuclear complexes. In the present study, the effect of the central asymmetry upon a function of different motor systems was investigated in the freely behaving rats subjected to unilateral or bilateral labyrinthectomy (UL or BL). In four sets of experiments the following results have been obtained. 1. Seven UL-evoked symptoms (which reflect impairment of different motor systems) were qualitatively characterized. The short-lasting symptoms were: (1) body twisting, (2) rolling, (3, 4) extension of the fore- and hindlimb contralateral to UL, and (5) circling. These symptoms disappeared in a fixed order during recovery from anesthesia. During of expression of the symptoms was very short (&lt; 1 hour) with the Halothan anesthesia and much longer (approximately 8 hours) with the chloral hydrate anesthesia. The long-lasting symptoms were (6) spontaneous ocular nystagmus, that persisted for 3 days after UL, and (7) head roll tilt, that persisted for at least several weeks after UL. 2. In BL-animals, stimulation of one of the 8th nerves was performed (by means of an implanted electrode; pulses 0.3 ms, 50 Hz, current up to 400 microA). By increasing gradually the strength of the stimulating current, we could evoke all the UL-symptoms but generally in the order (7--&gt;1) which was the reverse as compared to the order of disappearance of the corresponding symptoms during recovery after UL (1--&gt;7). These findings suggest that different symptoms need different levels of the central asymmetry for their appearance, and these levels also determine the order of disappearance of the symptoms during recovery from UL. 3. In UL-animals, by stimulating the 8th nerve on UL-side with a properly adjusted current (200-400 microA) we could immediately abolish all the symptoms except (6), which was, however, considerably reduced. This finding suggests that stimulation of the 8th nerve in UL-rats restores the central symmetry, which results in a concerted disappearance of almost all symptoms. In addition to the intermediate effects, stimulation of the 8th nerve in UL-animals resulted in a long-lasting effect, that is a reduction of the head roll tilt which persisted for at least 10 days after stimulation. 4. In BL-animals bilateral stimulation of the 8th nerve resulted in restoration of the muscular tone, and in considerable improvement of the control of the head position.
This study examined the effect of optokinetic stimulation on objective sleepiness, as measured by the Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT). The Nightcap, a portable sleep monitor, was used in a novel way to perform MSLTs, as well as record sleep in the home. Subjects wore the Nightcap for seven consecutive nights. On days 3 and 5 of the protocol, subjects came into the lab for an MSLT. On the experimental day, subjects underwent 10 minutes optokinetic stimulation (OKS), resulting in moderate motion sickness prior to each MSLT trial. Although subjects in the OKS condition reported significantly more drowsiness than controls, this did not result in significantly reduced sleep latencies.
There has been a long historical succession of scientific description of the cerebral cortex, usually accompanied by conflicting speculations on its function. It was noted by Thomas S. Kuhn that scientific descriptions are phrased in terms of the prevailing scientific paradigm and that disagreement about the interpretation of observed phenomena is what drives scientists to formulate new theories. The objectives of this study were to examine how the observation of Kuhn can help to gain insight into historical concepts of brain functioning from contemporary descriptions of the cortical gyrations, to examine how these historical concepts are relevant to neurology today, and to demonstrate how subjective these concepts are because they are based on interpretations that may be wrong. The method used here is examination of historical sources that give descriptions and illustrations of the cerebral cortex and contemporary theories of brain function. I have found that the emphases on cortical description have varied according to the prevailing contemporary paradigm. Debates about and between different paradigms mirror some themes in current neuroscience. In conclusion, the observations of Kuhn help to interpret descriptions to shed light on theories of cerebral cortical functioning, and they demonstrate that a scientific description is necessarily highly subjective (since it is phrased in terms of the current paradigm). The insights that can be gained are relevant to modern neurology and neuroscience research.

In 25 patients with cysticercosis of central nervous system, classified in two clinical forms, benign and malign, evoked potentials were obtained. Normal exam was found in 9 cases with the benign form. From 4 patients with malign clinical presentations, 2 had multiple abnormalities of the evoked potentials, and F wave alterations (mixed pattern). The authors suggest that this mixed pattern may be indicative of severe prognosis.
It is difficult to assess hypothetical models in poorly measured domains such as neuroendocrinology. Without a large library of observations to constrain inference, the execution of such incomplete models implies making assumptions. Mutually exclusive assumptions must be kept in separate worlds. We define a general abductive multiple-worlds engine that assesses such models by (i) generating the worlds and (ii) tests if these worlds contain known behaviour. World generation is constrained via the use of relevant envisionment. We describe QCM, a modeling language for compartmental models that can be processed by this inference engine. This tool has been used to find faults in theories published in international refereed journals; i.e. QCM can detect faults which are invisible to other methods. The generality and computational limits of this approach are discussed. In short, this approach is applicable to any representation that can be compiled into an and-or graph, provided the graphs are not too big or too intricate (fanout &lt; 7).
To clarify the dynamic effects of short-term continuous positive-pressure breathing (CPPB) and continuous negative-pressure breathing (CNPB) on sympathetic nerve activity, we measured muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in the tibial nerve together with blood pressure, heart rate, and central venous pressure (CVP) during spontaneous breathing: 5, 10, and 15 mm Hg (CPPB), and -5, -10, and -15 mm Hg (CNPB) for 5 min, respectively, in six healthy male volunteers. Increasing levels of CPPB at 5, 10, and 15 mm Hg produced increasing levels of MSNA, however, during CNPB, MSNA was virtually constant. Mean blood pressure decreased and heart rate increased during CNPB, while neither factor changed significantly during CPPB. CVP increased during CPPB and decreased during CNPB. These results suggest that CPPB and CNPB do not have the inverse effects on MSNA.
This study examined the behavioural and physiological effects of chronic mild stress on neonatally handled and non-handled rats. Neonatally handled and non-handled rats were exposed to chronic mild stress from weaning time to 6 months of age. They were behaviourally tested at 6 months of age, and sacrificed for analysis of nerve growth factor (NGF) in the hippocampus and hypothalamus. In contrast to the reported deleterious effect of acute strong stress, mild stress appeared to stimulate production of NGF in the hippocampus and improve spatial learning in both handled and nonhandled rats. Because neonatal handling produces neuroanatomical changes in the rat hippocampus and enhances cognitive function throughout the rats life span, these results implicate hippocampal NGF in the neuroprotective effects of handling.
Ad libitum ingestive behavior of rats with area postrema lesions (APX) was monitored electronically every 6 s for 23 hr. Whereas control rats ate on average 32.2 g of food each day in 16.3 distinct bouts, rats with APX ate comparable amounts of food (28.6 g) in much fewer daily bouts (5.8) that were very large. Controls drank 38.4 ml of water daily in 17.8 bouts, whereas rats with APX consumed more than twice as much water (101.5 ml) in a similar number of bouts (18.5). Controls drank 5.3 ml of 0.5 M NaCl daily in 7.0 bouts, whereas rats with APX consumed 9 times as much saline (45.5 ml) in more bouts (18.2) that were relatively large. These and other results suggest that the area postrema plays an important role in detecting inhibitory signals generated by food or fluid intake and that feeding and drinking bouts may increase in size after APX, because the feedback inhibition provided by those signals is diminished.
The apical ganglion is a highly conserved structure present in various marine invertebrate larvae. Although one of the hallmarks of this ganglion is the presence of serotonergic cells, little is known about the structure and function of these cells. We have examined this ganglion in larvae of the marine mollusc Aplysia with light- and electron-microscopic immunocytochemistry. The results indicate that the cellular composition of the apical ganglion of Aplysia is very similar to that of other opisthobranchs. It consists of three classes of sensory cells (ampullary, para-ampullary, and ciliary tuft cells) and of other nerve cell types. Almost a third of the cells in the apical ganglion of Aplysia are serotonergic, and these can be divided into two classes: three para-ampullary and two interneuronal cells. All of the serotonergic cells extend an axon into the central nervous system. The variety of sensory and serotonergic cell types suggests that each type processes distinct attributes of the sensory environment. We argue that the apical ganglion, by virtue of its serotonergic cells, is well-suited to play important roles in the integration of sensory information to achieve proper motor adaptation to variable seawater conditions.
A dysfunction in the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, possibly attributed to a change in glucocorticoid receptor (GR) functionality, has been implicated in depression. We have measured both lymphocyte GR receptor binding parameters and plasma sialyltransferase activity, as a biochemical marker of GR function, in two groups of patients suffering from depression or schizophrenia and in a group of age- and sex-matched controls. While there was a significant increase in plasma cortisol levels in the depressed group, there were no changes in the lymphocyte GR binding parameters (K(m) and Bmax). There was, however, a significant decrease in the plasma sialyltransferase: cortisol ratio in the depressed group suggesting an inability of the raised cortisol levels to induce enzyme expression and this ratio may provide a useful biochemical marker of cortisol receptor function. Although there was an increase in the plasma activity of the alpha 2,6 sialyltransferase isozyme in the schizophrenic group, no other changes were determined. Therefore, while the total plasma sialyltransferase:cortisol ratio reflects HPA axis function, alterations in specific isozyme activity may also be associated with other CNS disease states.
To evaluate whether chronic idiopathic axonal polyneuropathy (CIAP) should be considered as hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type 2 (HMSN type 2), we compared the clinical features of 48 patients with CIAP with those of 47 patients with HMSN type 2. In addition, we studied electrophysiological data in 20 patients with CIAP and in 20 patients with HMSN type 2. We found, in patients with HMSN type 2, that the initial symptoms were predominantly motor and that weakness and handicap were more severe and skeletal deformities more frequent, compared with those of CIAP patients. Electrophysiologically, the tibialis anterior muscle showed more denervation in patients with HMSN type 2, consistent with the predominance of motor symptoms. There was no important effect of age of onset on clinical features in HMSN type 2 patients. We conclude that in an individual patient with a sensory or sensorimotor idiopathic axonal polyneuropathy and no family history of polyneuropathies, the diagnosis HMSN type 2 is unlikely. However, if motor symptoms predominate, the diagnosis of HMSN type 2 should be considered.

Differential development of regions of the human cerebellar vermis was evaluated immunohistochemically and morphometrically between 18 weeks of gestation and 10 years of age. The density of Purkinje cells in the cerebellar vermis decreased rapidly until 38 weeks of gestation and slowly thereafter. At all stages of development, the density was higher in the posterior (lobules VI-IX) than the anterior vermis (lobules I-V). The area of cut sections of the anterior and posterior vermis in the mid-sagittal section increased rapidly before 40 weeks of gestation and gradually after birth, whereas growth was slower in the nodules. These developmental characteristics may be related to the selective susceptibility of cerebellar regions to environmental insults.
The dorsal horn of the spinal cord is a primary receiving area for somatosensory input and contains high concentrations of a large variety of receptors. These receptors tend to congregate in lamina II, which is a major receiving center for fine, presumably nociceptive, somatosensory input. There are rapid reorganizations of many of these receptors in response to various stimuli or pathological situations. These receptor localizations in the normal and their changes after various pertubations modify present concepts about the wiring diagram of the nervous system. Accordingly, the present work reviews the receptor localizations and relates them to classic organizational patterns in the mammalian dorsal horn.
Potassium (K+) channels are involved in the modulation and fine tuning of the excitable properties of neurons and glia in the nervous system. In the present report, in situ hybridization histochemistry was used to determine the regional and cellular distribution patterns in the adult rat brain of four mRNAs encoding subunits of voltage-gated K+ channels. These are Kv1.1, Kv1.6, K13 and IK8. All K+ channels examined showed distinct yet overlapping expression patterns. Expression of Kv1.1 mRNA was high in cells of certain motor-related structures of the brainstem. Kv1.6 mRNA expression was observed in cerebellar Purkinje cells and in various olfactory and amygdaloid structures. K13 was the only mRNA expressed in both neuronal and non-neuronal cell populations, including the cells of choroid plexus and pia. IK8 expression was observed only in the forebrain structures. In many brain regions, mRNAs for Kv1.1 and Kv1.6, both encoding K+ channel subunits belonging to the Shaker subfamily, were co-expressed, a necessary condition for heteromultimer formation.
The mammalian tachykinins (substance P, neurokinin A, and neurokinin B) are widely distributed throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems, where they act as neurotransmitters or neuromodulators. Historically, the tachykinins have been implicated in a wide variety of biological actions such as pain transmission, neurogenic inflammation, smooth muscle contraction, vasodilation, secretion, and activation of the immune system. Their effects are mediated via specific G-protein-coupled receptors (NK1, NK2, and NK3 receptors). The development of nonpeptide receptor antagonists revealed species differences in neurokinin-receptor pharmacology, and the recent cloning of human neurokinin receptors has led to development of compounds with optimized affinity for the human target receptor. The neurokinin-receptor antagonists have been used in preclinical experiments to confirm the physiological roles of the tachykinins. Importantly, it is now recognised that these agents can inhibit the actions of tachykinins released from peripheral nerves, and for the NK1-receptor antagonists (the most widely studied class of neurokinin-receptor antagonists) central sites of action have also been demonstrated. These studies support the development of neurokinin-receptor antagonists as potentially exploitable drug therapies in humans, particularly in the treatment of pain and emesis.
This study used intravital microscopy to measure the diameter of dural arteries in anaesthetized rats. Electrical stimulation of the surface of a closed cranial window produced increases in dural vessel diameter which were blocked by the CGRP receptor antagonist human-alpha CGRP(8-37) but unaffected by the NK1 receptor antagonist RP67580. Sumatriptan (3 and 10 mg kg-1, i.v.) significantly reduced the response to electrical stimulation. In contrast, sumatriptan (3 mg kg-1) had no effects on the response to exogenously administered CGRP. These results indicate that neurokinins play no role in neurogenic vasodilation in this preparation and that neurogenic vasodilation in rat dural vessels is mediated predominantly by CGRP. Furthermore, the data indicate that sumatriptan attenuates neurogenic vasodilation, probably by inhibiting the release of CGRP from perivascular trigeminal nerve endings innervating the dura. These experimental data parallel the clinical findings that CGRP levels are elevated in migraine and normalized, concomitantly with headache relief, by sumatriptan.
This study describes a novel intravital microscope technique for direct measurement of dural blood vessel diameter through a closed cranial window in anaesthetized rats. This technique avoids removal of the skull, which can lead to problems of altered vessel reactivity and brain swelling that are encountered with open cranial window techniques. Substance P and calcitonin gene-related (CGRP) evoked increases in dural vessel diameter, which were abolished by the NK1 receptor antagonist, RP67580 and the CGRP receptor antagonist, human-alpha CGRP(8-37) respectively. Neurokinin A produced increases in dural vessel diameter which were unaffected by the NK2 receptor antagonist SR 48968 but were blocked by RP67580, suggesting that neurokinin A can act through NK1 receptors to produce dural vasodilation in rats. The NK3 receptor agonist, senktide, had no effects on dural vessel diameter. All drugs were administered intravenously. In humans, vasodilation within the meningeal vasculature has been implicated in the pathogenesis of migraine, the present experiments indicate that substance P or neurokinin A (both acting through NK1 receptors) or CGRP may be responsible.
Environmentally relevant stimuli were used to examine the selectivity of area 7a neurons to optic flow using moving, flickering dots. Monkeys performed a psychophysical task requiring them to detect changes in translation, rotational and radially structured optic flow fields consisting of collections of moving dots which are free of form cues. The neurons in area 7a were selectively responsive to all the different types of moving stimuli. Two types of tuning for motion selectivity were found. Some neurons were tuned to distinguish a particular direction of optic flow (e.g. radial expansion versus radial compression), while others were tuned to distinguish between different classes of optic flow (e.g. radial motion versus planar rotation). The latter tuning was unlike that reported for area MST by others and may represent a novel representation of optic flow. The response of these neurons to translating bars was compared to that of optic flow fields. There appeared to be no similarity in the tuning to the two types of motion. Furthermore, there does not appear to be an identity between the neurons that could be classified as opponent vector and those selective for radial optic flow. Area 7a is involved in the further analysis of optic flow beyond the cortical areas MT and MST and provides a novel representation of motion. These results are consistent with the neurons in area 7a utilizing motion for the construction of a spatial representation of extra-personal space.
In recent years there have been a number of important advances in the understanding of cellular mechanisms related to olfactory function. Hypotheses regarding the complex relationships among odorant structure, physiological activity and behavioral outcome generated by these findings, however, remain largely untested due to a paucity of psychophysical data on stimulus discrimination in the same experimental species. Comparisons between behavioral and physiological responses are essential for elucidating the critical aspects of stimulus coding in sensory systems. We have developed a method for generating psychophysical data in one of the primary model species used in olfactory research, the tiger salamander, Ambystoma tigrinum. These psychophysical experiments are carried out under the same conditions as physiological experiments in our laboratory. Using classical conditioning, individual salamanders are trained over a period of 2-3 h to show skin potential responses to odor and not air. Failure to train using backward pairing demonstrates that the response is not due to sensitization or pseudoconditioning. The conditioned response is mediated by the olfactory pathway, as it is blocked by olfactory nerve section. We show that salamanders detect three odorants that are commonly used stimuli in physiological experiments (butyl alcohol, butyl acetate and amyl acetate), but cannot detect a fourth common experimental odorant, camphor. This method should be a powerful tool for studying olfactory information processing by providing data on discriminability of stimuli used in salamander physiological studies.
Dopaminergic psychosis frequently complicates the pharmacological treatment of Parkinson's disease. Dose reduction of dopaminomimetic therapy or treatment with conventional neuroleptics improves psychosis but worsens parkinsonism. In an open-label 12-month trial, the clinical antipsychotic efficacy of the atypical neuroleptic clozapine was investigated in 36 parkinsonian patients (age range 46-85 years) with symptoms of dopaminergic psychosis including delusions, vivid dreams, hallucinations, frank paranoid delirium, and hypersexuality. Clozapine, given orally at bedtime, was started at a dose of 6.25 mg and titrated upward to the minimal effective dose. In all patients, psychosis responded to very low clozapine doses (mean 10.59 +/- 6.48 mg/day). Clozapine doses correlated with the severity of psychosis. During clozapine treatment, parkinsonian disabilities and levodopa dosage remained statistically unchanged. During the 12-month study, no patient had clozapine-induced agranulocytosis or other severe side effects. These findings indicate that even at low doses, clozapine effectively controls dopaminergic psychosis in Parkinson's disease patients without compromising motor function.
This study evaluated the potential contribution of extrageniculate visual pathways to oculomotor orienting reflexes in hemianopic patients. It tested whether extrageniculate pathways mediate inhibition of return (IOR)-a phenomenon characterized by slowed target detections at recently stimulated locations (Posner &amp; Cohen, 1984). Because hemianopic subjects cannot overtly respond to stimuli presented within their hemianopic field, we utilized a spatial cueing paradigm that capitalized on the fact that IOR operates in spatiotopic coordinates. Subjects moved their eyes so that a cue and a target presented at the same spatial location were imaged successively onto blind and seeing portions of their retinas. One hemianopic patient showed a similar IOR effect from cues presented within both the seeing and the hemianopic fields. With a second hemianopic patient, only presentations of the cue to the subject's seeing field produced IOR. The explanation for this discrepancy is not evident. These observations highlight both the potential value and the pitfalls inherent in using &quot;blindsight&quot; as a window into human consciousness.

During the past year progress has been made in our understanding of the pathogenesis of the dementia associated with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. As many as one-third of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome patients eventually develop this condition, and at present it remains only poorly or transiently treated by existing antiretroviral therapies which do not penetrate well into the central nervous system. The past year has witnessed further characterization of microglial/macrophage neurotoxins, increasing evidence for neuronal death by apoptosis, and a more quantitative search for viral products, surrogate markers, or magnetic resonance spectroscopic parameters of brain or cerebrospinal fluid, or both. An increased understanding that the mediation of neuronal injury is not by direct infection of neurons, but rather via a complex network of cytokines, excitotoxins, and free radical mechanisms triggered by human immunodeficiency virus-infected or immune-stimulated brain macrophages and astrocytes has led to the development of therapies that are administered adjunctively with antiretroviral drugs. Some of these potential new treatments have now entered clinical trials.

The zebrafish homeobox gene floating head (flh) is essential for notochord development and is one of the earliest genes to be expressed in notochord precursors. To understand how flh is regulated during notochord development, we compared the wild-type flh expression pattern to that in embryos mutant for flh and no tail (ntl), the zebrafish homologue of Brachyury. In the early gastrula, the pattern of flh expression is not affected in either flh or ntl mutants, implying that the initial establishment of a gastrula notochord domain is independent of the function of these genes. However, flh RNA is expressed at lower levels in flh mutants suggesting that flh positively regulates its own expression. During gastrulation, flh mutants show an abrupt loss of flh expression in cells which have involuted and entered the hypoblast, while the rest of the expression pattern appears normal, thus flh+ function is specifically required to maintain flh expression in hypoblast cells. The anterior-most part of the notochord rudiment differentially maintains flh expression in both wild types and flh mutant embryos, suggesting that there is unique regulation of flh in this region of the developing notochord. In ntl mutants the spatial pattern of flh expression is altered as early as the late gastrula stage, becoming broad and diffuse. We hypothesize that ntl+ is required for the proper convergence movements of flh-expressing cells.
Previous studies have demonstrated that individuals with cystinosis, an inherited metabolic disorder, have difficulty processing visual information, and may be selectively impaired in the ability to mentally rotate figures, despite having normal IQs and normal primary sensory function. In our novel task-the 'Black Box'-subjects identified objects solely by feeling the contours. Twenty-three subjects with cystinosis, aged 4 to 34 years, were individually matched with controls on age, sex, handedness, and test form. Subjects with cystinosis performed significantly worse in identifying objects than did controls. In addition, when only subjects over 7 years of age were included, those with cystinosis took significantly longer to correctly identify objects than did controls. Our findings suggest that individuals with cystinosis have difficulty with tactile recognition of common objects. These results support the hypothesis that a genetic disorder may have specific behavioral correlates.
Clinical research may be seen in the context of the more general problem of an exchange of knowledge between psychopathology and neurosciences. While this interaction is not contested by the specialists in either field, we cannot, nonetheless, ignore the question of their various levels of congruence. More generally, we are increasingly aware of a need for enhanced formalization of the models derived from the two disciplines with a view to setting up transpositions or even cross fertilizations. The two communities, that of psychiatrists and that of neurobiologists, while they fascinate each other, have rarely been able to produce joint findings. The psychopathologist expects a positive validation of his clinical concepts from the neurobiologist, while the neurobiologist, who has frequently not resisted the etiological temptation, wants the clinician to give him pointers to enable him to refine his own experimental models. What is required, however, is that both the psychopathologist and the neurobiologist reduce their expectations and agree to move outside of their respective disciplinary autarkies. This would avoid two traps: that of the homological temptation which leads both to graft an experimental model onto clinical entities without checking the levels of congruence or non-congruence, making do with a simple behavioral similarity; the second error consists in using the complexity of the clinical picture as an unavoidable obstacle to any coming-together of the two disciplines. These two traps have not always been avoided, in particular in the context of the use of cognitive paradigms in nosographic clinical models.
Many groups are trying out functional MRI (fMRI) to study normal and diseased brain function. FMRI is a technique that images intrinsic blood signal changes accompanying variations of cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral blood volume (CBV) and oxygenation during mental activity. The main advantages which account for fMRI's increasing popularity are its time resolution (less than 1 second), a fine spatial resolution (on the scale of 1 mm), and the ability to acquire, within the same individual, repeated, multiple scans in a non-invasive manner. While the basic design of most studies centers on comparison of baseline to an active (test) condition, as the Positron Emission Tomography (PET), fMRI allows an important departure from the single scan per condition study-design, into more flexible paradigms of multiple scans over varying time intervals and multiple conditions. Although the technique is only a few years old, a large volume of experimental data have already been published. In this presentation we would like to provide potential users with a short overview of the basic principles and the main applications in cognitive neuroscience, as well as potential clinical applications.
Four-tert-octylphenol (OP), an environmental pollutant, exerts apoptotic effects on cultured mouse splenocytes. Although OP binds to estrogen receptors, these apoptotic effects are not exerted by 17 beta-estradiol (E). It remained possible that OP might bind to estrogen receptors and subsequently exert apoptotic effects not exerted by E after it binds to the same receptors. It also remained possible that E-primed splenocytes might respond to OP differently than splenocytes not exposed to E. Thus, we investigated OP and E interactions on the viability of mouse splenocytes in culture. The total number of splenocytes (cells stained and not stained with trypan blue) was not altered or altered slightly after incubation with any agent for 24 h. Incubation of splenocytes in medium containing 5 x 10(-5) or 5 x 10(-7) M OP decreased the percentage of viable cells by only approx 47% and 25%, respectively. The addition of 0.8 x 10(-5) to 0.8 x 10(-9) M E to cultures was without effect or decreased the percentage of viable cells by only approx 5%. The addition of these concentrations of E simultaneously with or at 2 h after the addition of 5 x 10(-5) M or 5 x 10(-7) M OP to cultures did not interfere with the OP-induced decreases in cell viability. By contrast, incubation of splenocytes in medium containing E for 2 h prior to the subsequent addition of either dose of OP blocked the OP-induced decreases in cell viability in a dose-response manner. There was a marked reduction in the percentage of viable cells (70%) when splenocytes were incubated with 0.5 x 10(-5) M dexamethasone. The addition of 0.8 x 10(-5) M E at 2 h prior to the addition of dexamethasone did not prevent the decreased cell viability. Incubation of cells in medium with 0.8 x 10(-5) M testosterone caused a small decrease in splenocyte viability similar to that observed with E. However, unlike E, the addition of testosterone at 2 h prior to the addition of 5 x 10(-5) M OP did not prevent the OP-induced decrease in cell viability. These data suggest the presence of estrogen receptors in some splenocytes. They also suggest that if OP binds to these estrogen receptors or other receptors in the absence or initial presence of E, the resulting effect is toxic to the cells. By contrast, exposure of splenocytes to E prior to their exposure to OP can prevent the toxicity of OP.

We investigated the possibility of growing primary retinoblastoma tumour tissue in SCID mice. In preliminary experiments with the WERI retinoblastoma cell line injected subcutaneously in SCID mice, tumours arose at only 25% of the inoculation sites. After mixing these cells with a reconstituted basement membrane extracellular matrix (Matrigel) prior to inoculation, tumours arose at 100% of inoculated sites. When primary retinoblastoma cells were injected subcutaneously into SCID mice in the presence of Matrigel, tumours arose in 5/8 cases. On average, the latency period was 4 months before the tumours were palpable. Histopathological examination of the tumours showed that they resembled surgically resected human retinoblastomas and one of the tumours formed pseudo-rosettes which is a characteristic of these tumours. Unfortunately, when these xenografted tumours were introduced into tissue culture, it was not possible to establish cell lines directly and the cultures were soon overgrown by mouse cells which could clearly be shown to be infiltrating the tumour. The ability to grow retinoblastoma cell lines and primary tissue subcutaneously in SCID mice offers a convenient model system to study the genetics of tumorigenesis in this tumour type and possibly an opportunity to study the role of chemotherapy in the treatment and progression of the disease.

Many neurobiological functions have been ascribed to the NPY Y1 receptor subtype, but autoradiographic analysis has failed to detect Y1 binding sites in most human brain areas, in contrast to the rat. We examined the regional distribution of Y1 mRNA-containing cells in the post-mortem human brain to clarify if there is a major species difference in terms of the existence of Y1 receptors in the human telencephalon, in particular the striatum and cortex. In situ hybridization experiments revealed widespread distribution of Y1 mRNA signals in all layers of most limbic and neocortical regions, predominantly in layer IV (most cortical regions) and layer VI. The striatum showed moderate Y1 receptor mRNA expression levels with intensely expressing cells localized to the nucleus accumbens. The highest Y1 receptor mRNA expression was apparent within the dentate gyrus, and the lowest in the subiculum, parahippocampal gyrus, cerebellum, and thalamus. In vitro autoradiography using [125I]Leu31Pro34-PYY and [125I]PYY with NPY (13-36) or Leu31Pro34-NPY, confirmed the presence of low Y1-like binding in the human brain despite abundant Y1 mRNA expression. However, using a rat model of the human autopsy process, it was apparent that the inability to reveal high Y1- versus Y2-like receptors in the human brain was related in part to marked reductions of Y1-like, but not Y2-like, receptors within a 4 h post-mortem delay. Altogether, the results indicate that the Y1 receptor gene is abundant in the human brain and this receptor may have important roles in cognitive, limbic and motor function.
This double-blind, placebo-controlled study assessed pharmacologically induced endogenous dopamine (DA) release in healthy male volunteers (n=12). Changes in endogenous DA release after injection of the psychostimulant drug methylphenidate were evaluated by single-photon emission tomography (SPET) and constant infusion of iodine-123 iodobenzamide ([123I]IBZM), a D2 receptor radioligand that is sensitive to endogenous DA release. Methylphenidate induced displacement of striatal [123I]IBZM binding, resulting in a significantly decrease in the specific to non-specific [123I]IBZM uptake ratio (average: 8.6%) in comparison with placebo (average: -1.9%). Moreover, injection of methylphenidate induced significant behavioural responses on the following items: excitement, anxiety, tension, and mannerisms and posturing. The results of this study demonstrate the feasibility of using constant infusion of [123I]IBZM and SPET imaging to measure endogenous DA release after methylphenidate challenge and to investigate neurochemical aspects of behaviour.
Radiolabelled 2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane (beta-CIT) has been used in clinical studies for the imaging of dopamine and serotonin transporters with single-photon emission tomography (SPET). 2beta-Carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane (nor-beta-CIT) is a des-methyl analogue of beta-CIT, which in vitro has tenfold higher affinity (IC50=0.36 nM) to the serotonin transporter than beta-CIT (IC50=4.2 nM). Nor-beta-CIT may thus be a useful radioligand for imaging of the serotonin transporter. In the present study iodine-125 and carbon-11 labelled nor-beta-CIT were prepared for in vitro autoradiographic studies on post-mortem human brain cryosections and for in vivo positron emission tomography (PET) studies in Cynomolgus monkeys. Whole hemisphere autoradiography with [125I]nor-beta-CIT demonstrated high binding in the striatum, the thalamus and cortical regions of the human brain. Addition of a high concentration (1 microM) of citalopram inhibited binding in the thalamus and the neocortex, but not in the striatum. In PET studies with [11C]nor-beta-CIT there was rapid uptake of radioactivity in the monkey brain (6% of injected dose at 15 min) and high accumulation of radioactivity in the striatum, thalamus and neocortex. Thalamus to cerebellum and cortex to cerebellum ratios were 2.5 and 1.8 at 60 min, respectively. The ratios obtained with [11C]nor-beta-CIT were 20%-40% higher than those previously obtained with [11C]beta-CIT. Radioactivity in the thalamus and the neocortex but not in the striatum was displaceable with citalopram (5 mg/kg). In conclusion, nor-beta-CIT binds to the serotonin transporter in the primate brain in vitro and in vivo and has potential for PET and SPET imaging of the serotonin transporter in human brain.
Pyramidal neurons in the rat posteromedial barrel subfield (PMBSF) were characterized physiologically and filled with biocytin in in vitro brain slices. Intrinsic axons belonging to supragranular neurons projected horizontally and vertically, arborizing in layers II/III and V, but had few or no projections to layers IV or VI. These axons projected horizontally for up to 2 mm, spanning two to seven barrel columns. Layer V neurons had more diffuse axon arbors that projected either vertically, arborizing in layers III to V, or horizontally, branching profusely in layers V and VI. The basal dendritic trees of neurons in layers II/III, V and VI spanned one or two barrel columns without being skewed toward particular barrel columns. Physiologically, regular-spiking neurons were classified as &quot;RS1&quot; or &quot;RS2&quot; according to their degree of late spike frequency adaptation. RS1 neurons were found in superficial and deep layers, whereas RS2 neurons were significantly more prevalent in the latter. Infragranular, but not supragranular neurons showed slow, inward rectification at hyperpolarized potentials. All neurons generated fast and medium afterhyperpolarizations following individual spikes; however, only infragranular pyramids had depolarizing afterpotentials interposed between the two afterhyperpolarizations. RS1 neurons had larger cell bodies, longer total basal dendritic lengths, and more densely branched proximal dendritic trees than RS2 neurons. These findings indicate that pyramidal neurons in the deep and superficial layers of the rat PMBSF have distinct patterns of intracortical axon arbors and distinct physiological properties. These features are probably involved in shaping and modulating the response properties of PMBSF neurons.
Ex vivo gene transfer to fetal suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN)-containing solid piece neurografts was explored using a first-generation prototype adenoviral vector containing the reporter gene LacZ (Ad-LacZ). Transgene expression was examined at different intervals following grafting in the IIIrd ventricle of rat brain and was compared to that of explant cultures. Large numbers of beta-galactosidase-positive cells were observed 8 days postgrafting. The number of stained cells had decreased considerably at 21 days but transduced cells were still present at 70 days. In vitro culturing of infected SCN tissue revealed high expression up to 21 days, indicating that the in vivo and in vitro fates of Ad-LacZ-infected cells were different. The main reason for this difference appeared to be cell loss by necrosis in the initial phase after transplantation, a phenomenon not related to the infection with Ad-LacZ since it similarly occurred in control grafts. In vivo inflammatory responses, observed after immunostaining for macrophages and T-lymphocytes, were also comparable in control and Ad-LacZ-treated transplants, except that cytotoxic T-cells were observed in the Ad-LacZ-treated transplants and not in controls. The recruitment of these cells was, however, minor and primarily observed at 8 days postgrafting, indicating that a major immunological rejection of the transduced graft did not occur. In both control and Ad-LacZ-infected transplants similar survival and intraimplant neuritic growth of SCN cells were visible. Ex vivo gene transfer of solid piece fetal SCN grafts with adenoviral vectors therefore appeared to be a nontoxic long-term gene-introducing procedure. This would in principle enable the local production of neurotrophic factors within the transplant and has the potential to improve functional SCN neurografting.
Rats subjected to experimental spinal cord compression of different degrees induced by aneurysm clips were neurologically tested 3 and 5 weeks postinjury. The development of spinal cord tissue destruction over time was similar to what has been described for other experimental spinal cord injuries with characteristics such as early edema, axonal swelling, and later necrosis. Three weeks after injury a reactive gliosis was found at the injury epicenter and regenerating axons could be identified in the otherwise necrotic cavity. The extent of degeneration was highly correlated with the closing force of the aneurysm clip. The results of a number of neurological tests were correlated to the degree of clip-induced compression, to lesion volume, and to the remaining area of white matter at the epicenter. The neurological tests with the highest correlation to morphological descriptors were beam walk (r(s) = 0.89-0.95) and motor performance score (r(s) = 0.88-0.92). We conclude that the motor performance score, previously validated for photochemically induced ischemic spinal cord injuries, is equally suitable for clip compression injuries as a fast and reliable neurological test paradigm.
The coordination of manipulative forces was examined in 10 subjects with Parkinson's disease (PD) both OFF and ON medication while they grasped and lifted a small object using the precision grip. The development of grip (squeeze) force and load (vertical lifting) force was recorded and compared to a group of age-matched control subjects. Subjects with PD often exhibited a prolonged delay between the first digit contact with the object and initiation of the lifting drive. These subjects also exhibited stepwise increases in force, with regular oscillations in the force rates. However, once the vertical drive began, the main increase in grip and load force generally was in parallel and most other temporal aspects of the force coordination were similar to those of the control subjects. The extent to which the movement initiation was delayed was related to the stage of the disease, and most subjects improved ON medication. When the object was held in the air, subjects with PD used a grip force level which was similar to that of the control subjects, and all subjects adjusted their grip force according to the surface texture. Furthermore, they exhibited proper reflexive corrections to sudden changes in load (object perturbations), suggesting intact sensorimotor integration. We conclude that the most obvious impairments in the coordination of this task were delayed initiation of the grip-lift sequence and tremor-like oscillations superimposed on otherwise normal force.
The in vivo properties of four different neural stem cell lines, generated from embryonic striatum or hippocampus by immortalization with the temperature-sensitive (s) A58/U19 allele of the SV40 Large T-antigen, have been studied with respect to their ability to survive, differentiate, and integrate after transplantation to the adult rat striatum. The cells were labeled with [3H]thymidine prior to grafting, and combined autoradiography and immunohistochemistry was used to characterize their phenotypic differentiation within the adult brain environment. The results show that all four types of cells survived well, up to at least 1.5-6 months postgrafting, without any signs of tissue perturbation or tumor formation. The cells underwent, on average, 2-3 cell divisions during the first 5 days after implantation and exhibited extensive migration over a distance of 1-1.5 mm from the injection site to become morphologically integrated with the surrounding host striatum. The cell number and tissue distribution attained by 2 weeks remained stable for up to 6 months postgrafting with the exception of one cell line, which showed a 40% loss of cells between 2 and 6 weeks. Twice the number of [3H]thymidine-labeled cells were recovered when the cells were grafted into a 1-week-old excitotoxic striatal lesion, probably due to an increased proliferation of the cells in response to the neuron-depleting depleting lesion. The immortalized cells behaved as multipotent neural progenitors. The vast majority of the cells developed a glial-like morphology, 6-14% being clearly GFAP-positive; however, a small but consistent proportion of them (1-3%) expressed MAP-2 and exhibited neuron-like morphology. In mature transplants about 75-80% of the grafted cells were located in the striatal grey matter, and 10-15% in white matter, some of which are proposed to have differentiated into oligodendrocytes. Remaining 5-10% occurred around small blood vessels (resembling pericytes) and in the subventricular zone underneath the ependyma of the lateral ventricle. It is concluded that the ts cell lines are highly suitable for intracerebral transplantation and that they allow the creation of a regionally confined cellular chimeras where the graft-derived glial cells become stably integrated with the resident glial cell matrix.



Experiments are described in which the development of the gravity-sensing organs was studied in newt larvae reared in microgravity on the IML-2 mission and in Aplysia embryos and larvae reared on a centrifuge at 1 to 5 g. In Aplysia embryos, the statolith (single dense mass on which gravity and linear acceleration act) was reduced in size in a graded fashion at increasing g. In early post-metamorphic Aplysia or even in isolated statocysts from such animals, the number of statoconia produced is reduced at high g. Newt larvae launched before any of the otoconia were formed and reared for 15 days in microgravity had nearly adult labyrinths at the end of the IML-2 mission. The otoliths of the saccule and utricle were the same size in flight and ground-reared larvae. However, the system of aragonitic otoconia produced in the endolymphatic sac in amphibians was much larger and developed earlier in the flight-reared larvae. At later developmental stages, the aragonitic otoconia enter and fill the saccule. One flight-reared larva was maintained for nine months post-flight and the size of the saccular otolith, as well as the volume of otoconia within the endolymphatic sac, were considerably larger than in age-matched, ground-reared newts. This suggests that rearing in microgravity initiates a process that continues for several months after introduction to 1-g, which greatly increases the volume of otoconia. The flight-reared animal had abnormal posture, pointing its head upward, whereas normal ground-reared newts always keep their head horizontal. This suggests that rearing for even a short period in microgravity can have lasting functional consequences in an animal subsequently reared in 1-g conditions on Earth.
Our research examines the role of the environment in postnatal nervous system development. Recently we have been studying the effects of changes in gravity on the motor system of rats from postnatal day (P) 2 to 31 using kinematic analysis of swimming, walking, and righting reflexes. Using the tail suspension model of weightlessness we identified sensitive and critical periods of motor system development corresponding to the time during which a motor skill is first achieved. Motor performance in suspended animals was marked by slow swimming, walking, and air-righting, all of which were characterized by hindlimb extension. (Walton et al, Neurosci. 52,763,1992). The critical periods identified in these studies contributed to determining the age of animals for a small payload, NIH.R3. This 9-day mission (STS-72) included 2 litters at P5, P7, or P15 at launch. The P7-16 and P15-24 groups were studied post-flight. On the landing day (R+0) surface righting, swimming and walking were slower in flight compared to control animals. Differences were more marked in the younger animals and the hindlimbs were more affected than the forelimbs with marked, prolonged extension of, at least, the ankle joint angle. Readaptation to 1G was slower in the P7-16 group with righting reflexes adapting first, walking last. We have shown that gravity is an important factor in postnatal nervous system development and that its affect depends on the age of the animal, duration of the perturbation, and the motor function studied.


Behavioral phenotyping of transgenic and knockout mice requires rigorous, formal analyses. Well-characterized paradigms can be chosen from the established behavioral neuroscience literature. This review describes (1) a series of neurological and neuropsychological tests which are effectively used as a first screen for behavioral abnormalities in mutant mice, and (2) a series of specific behavioral paradigms, clustered by category. Included are multiple paradigms for each category, including learning and memory, feeding, analgesia, aggression, anxiety, depression, schizophrenia, and drug abuse models. Examples are given from the experiences of the authors, in applying these experimental designs to transgenic and knockout mice. Extensive references for each behavioral paradigm are provided, to allow new investigators to access the relevant literature on behavioral methodology.

Depletion of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) appears to be an important cause of mitochondrial dysfunction in neonates and infants. We have identified another child in whom depletion of mtDNA was demonstrated in liver and serial skeletal muscle biopsies. A primary myoblast culture from the patient initially showed normal levels of mtDNA, but there was a progressive loss of mtDNA in later cell passages and clonal myoblast cell cultures, similar to that observed in the skeletal muscle tissue of the patient. Thus, these clonal myoblast cultures provide an in vitro model of the in vivo mtDNA dynamics. The levels of mitochondrial mRNAs for subunits I and II of cytochrome c oxidase declined with declining mtDNA levels, but the fall in mitochondrial transcript levels lagged behind that of the mtDNA levels. Levels of cytochrome c oxidase subunit I and II polypeptides, however, declined ahead of declining mtDNA levels. Immunocytochemistry showed that between individual cells of the clonal myoblast cultures, the expression of the mitochondrially encoded subunit I of cytochrome c oxidase was heterogeneous, suggesting variable levels of mtDNA. Transfer of patient mitochondria with residual mtDNA levels to control cells devoid of mtDNA (rho0 cells) led to restoration of mtDNA levels and, hence, suggests a nuclear involvement in the depletion.
Neuronal development and maintenance are regulated by trophic interactions with the target tissues and the innervating nerve. The neurotrophin family of polypeptide growth factors, consisting of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and neurotrophin-4/5 (NT-4/5), are produced in limited amounts in target areas. They bind to tyrosine receptor kinases of the trk family, including trkA, trkB and trkC, which mediate intracellular signalling in the responding neurons. There are reports of different isoforms of trkA, trkB and trkC having different signalling capacities. This study reports a novel deletion of the first cysteine-rich domain in the extracellular part of chicken trkC. We describe the mRNA expression of this isoform compared to non-deleted forms in E9 peripheral ganglia studied by reversetranscriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and in situ hybridization. We also compare the mRNA expression pattern of two existing signal peptide sequences and the distribution of trkC mRNA detected by the use of a kinase specific probe. The results show that the novel isoform is expressed in peripheral sensory and autonomic ganglia. Moreover both signal peptide forms are detected in these ganglia by RT-PCR. In addition, in situ hybridization results showed a weak mRNA expression of the novel isoform in the E9 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) but not in Remak's ganglion. The two existing signal peptides are equally expressed in the DRG and Remak's ganglion, at labelling densities comparable to those for the full-length catalytic form of trkC.
The signaling pathway associated with pertussis and cholera toxin sensitive G proteins have been extensively investigated. In contrast, the function and associated signal transduction cascade for the pertussis toxin insensitive G protein, Gz alpha have remained elusive. Therefore, the aim of this study was to identify the signal transduction pathway associated with Gz alpha by using the protein identification techniques of matrix assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectroscopy and N-terminal Edman sequencing. We have chosen this technique to identify proteins that Gz alpha associates with and to gain insights into the potential role this G protein plays in cells. As Gz alpha is predominantly localized in neuronal tissues, homogenates of whole brain tissue were used. Gz alpha and its associated proteins were immunoprecipitated from brain tissue and identified. The immunoprecipitation of four proteins (140, 46, 41 and 36 kDa) was shown to be inhibited in the presence of the Gz alpha peptide. These proteins were subsequently identified as phospholipase C (PLC)-gamma, beta or gamma-actin, Gz alpha and G beta, the beta subunit of heterotrimeric G proteins, respectively. These results suggest that Gz alpha exists in a protein complex with the actin cytoskeleton and an important intracellular signalling enzyme, PLC-gamma. These methods are powerful techniques for determining protein-protein interactions, and provide the first step to the identification of signalling proteins that Gz alpha associates with. However further experimentation will be required to determine the biological relevance of these protein interactions.
Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), a T-cell mediated autoimmune disease, is widely considered as an animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS). It is believed that breakdown of the blood brain barrier (BBB) reflects the initial mechanism in the induction of EAE. It has been reported that while neonatally pinealectomized Wistar rats develop extensive pathological changes and severe neurologic deficits upon induction of EAE with allogeneic spinal cord in adjuvant, adult rats pinealectomized at 6 weeks of age appeared resistant to the induction of EAE. These findings suggest that: (a) the pineal gland influences the expression of EAE and, by inference, the integrity of the BBB; and (b) there is an age-related window of susceptibility to the development of EAE possibly related to the level of maturation of the pineal gland and functional integrity of the BBB. This age-related susceptibility to the development of EAE in rats may be relevant to the timing of aquisition of MS where a viral infection in childhood is thought to initiate the induction of autosensitization to myelin antigens. More specifically, it is suggested that the viral infection associated with the development of MS most likely is acquired in infancy prior to the establishment of the melatonin circadian rhythms between 3 and 9 months of age.
Absent or markedly reduced REM sleep with cessation of dream recall has been documented in numerous neurological disorders associated with subcortical dementia including Parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy and Huntington's chorea. This report concerns a 69 year old Parkinsonian patient who experienced complete cessation of dreaming since the onset of motor disability 13 years ago. Long term treatment with levodopa and dopamine (DA) receptor agonists (bromocriptine and pergolide mesylate) did not affect dream recall. However, dreaming was restored after the patient received three treatment sessions with AC pulsed picotesla range electromagnetic fields (EMFs) applied extracranially over three successive days. Six months later, during which time the patient received 3 additional treatment sessions with EMFs, he reported dreaming vividly with intense colored visual imagery almost every night with some of the dreams having sexual content. In addition, he began to experience hypnagogic imagery prior to the onset of sleep. Cessation of dream recall has been associated with right hemispheric dysfunction and its restoration by treatment with EMFs points to right hemispheric activation, which is supported by improvement in this patient's visual memory known to be subserved by the right temporal lobe. Moreover, since DA neurons activate REM sleep mechanisms and facilitate dream recall, it appears that application of EMFs enhanced DA activity in the mesolimbic system which has been implicated in dream recall. Also, since administration of pineal melatonin has been reported to induce vivid dreams with intense colored visual imagery in normal subjects and narcoleptic patients, it is suggested that enhanced nocturnal melatonin secretion was associated with restoration of dream recall in this patient. These findings demonstrate that unlike chronic levodopa therapy, intermittent pulsed applications of AC picotesla EMFs may induce in Parkinsonism reactivation of reticular-limbic-pineal systems involved in the generation of dreaming.
Cognitive deficits are common among patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). The pathogenetic mechanisms underlying the cognitive impairment in MS are unknown and there is presently no effective therapeutic modality which has shown efficacy in improving cognitive deficits in MS. A 53 year old college professor with a long history of secondary progressive MS experienced, over the preceding year, noticeable deterioration in cognitive functions with difficulties in short and long term memory, word finding in spontaneous speech, attention and concentration span. Unable to pursue his academic activities, he was considering early retirement. Mental examination disclosed features of subcortical and cortical dementia involving frontal lobe, left hemispheric and right hemispheric dysfunction. Almost immediately following the extracerebral application of AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) of 7.5 picotesla intensity and a 4-Hz sinusoidal wave, the patient experienced a heightend sense of well being, which he defined as enhancement of cognitive functions with a feeling &quot;like a cloud lifted off my head.&quot; He reported heightend clarity of thinking and during the application of EMFs he felt that words were formed faster and he experienced no difficulty finding the appropriate words. His speech was stronger and well modulated and he felt &quot;energized&quot; with resolution of his fatigue. There was improvement in manual dexterity and handwriting and testing of constructional praxis demonstrated improvement in visuospatial, visuoperceptive and visuomotor functions. It is suggested that some of the cognitive deficits associated with MS, which are caused by synaptic disruption of neurotransmitter functions, may be reversed through pulsed applications of picotesla range EMFs.
Alpha rhythms appear as sinusoidal-like oscillations in the electroencephalogram (EEG) within the frequency range 8-12 Hz that waxe and wane in a more or less irregular way. The irregularity may have various origins. It may be due to noise or the oscillations may have an intrinsic irregular character, e.g. they may be generated by chaotic processes [Jansen (1991) Quantitative analysis of electroencephalograms: is there chaos in the future? Int. J. Biomed. Comput., 27: 95-123; Pradham, N. and Dutt, D.N. (1993) A nonlinear perspective in understanding the neurodynamics of EEG. Comput. Biol. Med., 23: 425-442; Pritchard et al. (1995) Dimensional analysis of resting human EEG II: Surrogate-data testing indicates nonlinearily but not low-dimensional chaos. Psychophysiology. 32: 486]. The term noise is often used in neurophysiology with different connotations as pointed out by Bullock (1990), either meaning an unwanted signal from the point of view of the receiver of a message, or a signal with intrinsic random fluctuations, i.e. with a stochastic character. Here we consider noise in this sense, as random or quasi-random neural activity. In this overview, we concentrate on the question of whether alpha rhythms should be considered generated in neuronal networks (1) as forms of filtered noise, (2) as deterministic oscillations influenced by noise or (3) as the result of chaotic dynamics. A clear answer to this question can have theoretical value because it may lead to a general model of the generation of this important EEG signal. Such a model, of course, would be a macroscopic one, since it would primarily account for the properties of the alpha rhythms at the neuronal network level. A translation of these properties to the microscopic, i.e. neuronal, level will not be easy to achieve without more direct knowledge of the membrane and synaptic basic properties of the neurons involved. Here we consider the question formulated above by presenting some relevant experimental evidence and theoretical arguments. The consideration whether alpha rhythms may have noise or chaotic sources implies examining how and where such sources can occur in the neuronal networks of the brain. Therefore we present, first, some basic data regarding the possible origin of noise and of chaos in neuronal networks. Second, the signal analysis methods that have to be applied in order to discriminate between filtered noise activities and chaotic oscillations are introduced. Third, the implications of these signal analyses regarding the possible answer to the initial question are discussed.
The mechanism by which brain cells generate alpha and other rhythms remains obscure, and the possible participation of glial cells in the process continues to be debated. We will present data obtained from freely moving rats in which flashes produced by a light emitting diode implanted under the skin of the scalp evoke retinal and cortical responses recorded through electrodes implanted behind the eye and over visual cortex. In the retina, which is a brain-like structure isolated in the periphery during embryology, the b-wave evoked response is thought to be produced by the Mller glial cells as they maintain potassium ion homeostasis in the extracellular space during the synaptic events initiated by rod and cone activation. We will report on the results of a search in this retinal analogue of the brain for spontaneous activity in the EEG spectrum.
We describe two sets of rhythmical field potentials that may be recorded from the neocortex of the behaving cat: those at about 14 Hz ('mu' rhythms), in part of the somatic area SI; others at about 10 Hz ('alpha' rhythms), in part of the visual cortex (lateral gyrus). We report their precise localization, their thalamic correlates, their dependence upon a noradrenergic brainstem modulatory mechanism, and finally their possible functional significance.
We have examined the effects of the insect ecdysteroid, 20-hydroxyecdysone, on the differentiation of neuronal and non-neuronal elements in the developing adult visual system, using in vitro methods in Drosophila. We examined the differentiation of early neuronal markers in the presence and absence of 1 microgram/ml 20-hydroxyecdysone. Immunoreactivity to 22C10, a marker of an early neuronal antigen, as well as to the photoreceptor-specific antibody 24B10, suggests that differentiation of neuronal and photoreceptor antigens does not require 20-hydroxyecdysone. In eye-discs cultured from animals 5 hours after the white prepupa (P + 5), ommochrome pigmentation first appeared after 2 days in 1 microgram/ml 20-hydroxyecdysone, but cultures lacked pigmentation without 20-hydroxyecdysone. Our culture conditions failed to support the formation of the second screening pigment, drosopterins, even with 20-hydroxyecdysone. Eye discs from P + 5 also formed lenses and interommatidial bristles in culture when 20-hydroxyecdysone was added but not in cultures devoid of the hormone. The differentiation of synaptotagmin and the elongation of extending photoreceptor neurites from eye disc fragments both occur in the absence of 20-hydroxyecdysone in cultures, but adding the hormone increased average neurite length. The threshold for enhanced neurite length was less than 125 ng/ml 20-hydroxyecdysone. Eye-disc cultures also developed immunoreactivity to histamine, the photoreceptor transmitter, from synthesis not re-uptake, in both the presence and in the absence of 20-hydroxyecdysone. These findings suggest that photoreceptor axons may be able to release transmitter in vivo both when they grow into the optic lobe and during the subsequent events in synapse formation.

Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) are proteins that are required for cholinergic neurotransmission. Present knowledge concerning the organization of cholinergic structures has been derived primarily from immunohistochemistry for ChAT. In the present study, we investigated the distribution of mRNAs and the corresponding proteins for ChAT and VAChT by in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry. The patterns of distribution of perikarya containing ChAT mRNA. ChAT protein, VAChT mRNA and VAChT protein were similar in most regions, and co-localization in the same neuron of mRNAs for ChAT and VAChT, that of ChAT mRNA and ChAT protein, and that of VAChT mRNA and VAChT protein were demonstrated. However, in the cerebral cortex and hypothalamus, ChAT-immunoreactive perikarya were present, but they did not contain mRNAs for ChAT and VAChT, and VAChT protein. On the other hand, in the cerebellum, Purkinje cell bodies contained VAChT mRNA and VAChT protein, but they did not contain either ChAT mRNA or ChAT protein. Axon bundles were clearly revealed by immunohistochemistry for ChAT, but they were not detected by that for VAChT. Both ChAT and VAChT antibodies revealed preterminal axons and terminal-like structures. In the forebrain, they were present in the olfactory bulb, nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract, olfactory tubercle, lateral septal nucleus, amygdala, hippocampus, neocortex, caudate-putamen, thalamus and median eminence of the hypothalamus. In the brainstem, they were localized in the superior colliculus, interpeduncular nucleus and some cranial nerve motor nuclei, and further in the ventral horn of the spinal cord. These results indicate strongly that ChAT and VAChT are expressed in most of the cholinergic neurons, and that immunohistochemistry for VAChT is as useful to detect cholinergic terminal fields as that for ChAT.

The larval proleg withdrawal reflex of the hawk moth, Manduca sexta, exhibits robust habituation. This reflex is evoked by deflecting one or more mechanosensory planta hairs on a proleg tip. We examined neural correlates of habituation in an isolated proleg preparation consisting of one proleg and its segmental ganglion. Repeated deflection of a single planta hair caused a significant decrease in the number of action potentials evoked in the proleg motor nerve (which carries the axons of proleg retractor motor neurons). Significant response decrement was seen for interstimulus intervals of 10 s, 60 s and 5 min. Response decrement failed to occur in the absence of repetitive stimulation, the decremented response recovered spontaneously following a rest, and electrical stimulation of a body wall nerve facilitated the decremented response (a neural correlate of dishabituation). Adaptation of sensory neuron responses occurred during repeated hair deflections. However, when adaptation was eliminated by direct electrical stimulation of sensory neurons, the response in the proleg motor nerve still decreased significantly. Muscle recordings indicated that the response of an identified proleg retractor motor neuron decreased significantly during habituation training. Thus, habituation of the proleg withdrawal reflex includes a central component that is apparent at the level of a single motor neuron.
Short-latency vestibular-evoked potentials to pulsed linear acceleration were characterized in the quail. Responses occurred within 8 ms following the onset of stimuli and were composed of a series of positive and negative peaks. The latencies and amplitudes of the first four peaks were quantitatively characterized. Mean latencies at 1.0 g ms-1 ranged from 1265 +/- 208 microseconds (P1, N = 18) to 4802 +/- 441 microseconds (N4, N = 13). Amplitudes ranged from 3.72 +/- 1.51 microV (P1/N1, N = 18) to 1.49 +/- 0.77 microV (P3/N3, N = 16). Latency-intensity (LI) slopes ranged from -38.7 +/- 7.3 microseconds dB-1 (P1, N = 18) to -71.6 +/- 21.9 microseconds dB-1 (N3, N = 15) and amplitude-intensity (AI) slopes ranged from 0.20 +/- 0.08 microV dB-1 (P1/N1, N = 18) to 0.07 +/- 0.04 microV dB-1 (P3/N3, N = 11). The mean response threshold across all animals was -21.83 +/- 3.34 dB re: 1.0 g ms-1 (N = 18). Responses remained after cochlear extirpation showing that they could not depend critically on cochlear activity. Responses were eliminated by destruction of the vestibular end organs, thus showing that responses depended critically and specifically on the vestibular system. The results demonstrate that the responses are vestibular and the findings provide a scientific basis for using vestibular responses to evaluate vestibular function through ontogeny and senescence in the quail.
Phonological manipulations affect performance in a letter search task that requires only a shallow level of processing. In Experiment 1, phonology reduced accuracy in the letter search task when a pseudohomophone (GAIM) contained a target letter (&quot;i&quot;) that was missing in the spelling of its (nonpresented) sound-alike base word (GAME). In Experiment 2, phonology increased accuracy in the letter search task when the target letter was present in both the spelling of the pseudohomophone and the spelling of its sound-alike base word (&quot;m&quot; in GAIM and GAME). In Experiment 3, we showed that the phonology-hurts effect of Experiment 1 is not peculiar to nonword letter strings but generalizes to familiar words. In Experiment 4, we obtained a phonology-hurts effect on correct response times when stimuli were visible until participants responded (stimuli were not masked).
It is known that the perceived identity of an ambiguous figure can influence how that figure is perceived to move. In 6 experiments, the converse effect-the role of motion in the perceptual identification of ambiguous figures (e.g., N. Tinbergen's, 1951, goose-hawk)-was examined. In general, observers were biased to identify a moving ambiguous figure as that object whose face pointed in the direction of motion. Experiments 1-4 replicated this basic effect over induced, apparent, and smooth motion displays. Results from Experiment 5 show that longer interstimulus intervals led to smaller biases, with all bias disappearing around 1,500 ms. In Experiment 6, direction of motion influenced perceptual identification even in the presence of conflicting shape information.
C-fos expression appears in some activated cell types. Because of dynamic changes in gonadotropes during the estrous cycle, this study was initiated to determine if fos might be expressed in gonadotropes before any period of activation. We detected c-fos and pituitary antigens in dissociated anterior pituitary cells by dual-labeling immunocytochemistry. The highest percentage of cells with fos protein were found in proestrous rat populations. In diestrous and proestrous populations, dual labeling showed that 6-9% of pituitary cells contained fos with adrenocorticotropin, thyroid-stimulating hormone, prolactin, or growth hormone antigens. In contrast, only 0.8-3% contained fos with luteinizing hormone (LH) or follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) antigens. We then tested the hypothesis that gonadotropes might increase fos expression earlier in the cycle. In populations from metestrous rats, c-fos labeling was found in 45% of LH cells compared to only 23% of LH cells in the proestrous group. This suggests that proportionately more LH cells are being activated to produce fos early in the cycle. Perhaps fos is used in translation of LH beta antigens or gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor mRNAs. In contrast, less than 1% of all pituitary cells expressed fos with FSH at all stages of the cycle (only 6-12% of FSH cells). This differential expression suggests one mechanism behind the regulation of non-parallel storage and release of gonadotropin antigens.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is an important regulator of differentiation and survival in both the peripheral and central nervous systems. We have begun to analyze the mechanism by which NGF induces the expression of a neural specific gene, VGF, in PC12 cells. Using DNase I footprinting and transient transfection analysis, we identified two VGF promoter regions, V1 and V2, that are required for basal promoter expression as well as gene induction by NGF, epidermal growth factor (EGF), and cAMP. The V1 element is essential for VGF promoter function, but it is not sufficient to confer NGF responsiveness to a heterologous promoter. In contrast, the V2 element can independently stimulate the expression of a linked herpes simplex virus (HSV) thymidine kinase promoter in response to NGF. We showed that the V2 region also contains a sequence that acts as a promoter-specific negative regulator of basal VGF gene expression. As determined by gel mobility shift and Southwestern analysis, the V1 sequence is recognized by a novel PC12 nuclear protein of about 110-kDa molecular mass. Using oligonucleotide competition and antibody supershift assays, we demonstrated that the cAMP-response element (CRE) motif within the V2 element interacted specifically with proteins related to cAMP-response element binding (CREB), JunB, and JunD transcription factors. The JunB-related binding activities were transiently induced by NGF, suggesting that part of the mechanism utilized by NGF to activate VGF transcription includes increased synthesis of a V2 binding protein. Taken together, our analysis suggests that the VGF promoter is regulated by a complex mechanism, and its activation requires combinatorial action of several transcription factors interacting with multiple promoter elements.
Astrocytes derived from rat frontal cortex contain 5-hydroxytryptamine7 (5-HT)7 receptors positively coupled to adenylyl cyclase. In the present study, we investigated the effects of glucocorticoids on adenylyl cyclase activity and 5-HT7 receptor gene expression in astrocytes. Addition of dexamethasone (0.01-100 nM, 12-72 h) to the culture medium decreased cyclic AMP formation induced by 5-HT in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Dexamethasone treatment (10 nM, 48 h) reduced maximum responses of cyclic AMP formation induced by 5-HT and 5-carboxamidotryptamine without alterations in the EC50 value. In contrast, treatment with the mineralocorticoid aldosterone (48 h) had no significant effects on 5-HT-induced cyclic AMP formation with concentrations up to 10 nM. It was observed that dexamethasone treatment (1-100 nM, 3-72 h) also decreased the expression of 5-HT7 receptor mRNA, using reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction analysis. A significant reduction in expression of 5-HT7 mRNA appeared at 3 h of dexamethasone treatment and reached a maximum at 6 h of treatment. On the other hand, dexamethasone treatment (10 nM, 48 h) did not affect basal levels of cyclic AMP and cyclic AMP synthesis stimulated by isoproterenol, N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine, cholera toxin, and forskolin. These results suggest that dexamethasone decreases the expression of the 5-HT7 receptor gene and, consequently, 5-HT7 receptor-mediated signal transduction in frontocortical astrocytes.
Multiple members of the Egr family of transcription regulatory factors are rapidly induced in response to neuronal stimulation and share a common double-stranded DNA binding consensus sequence, referred to as the Egr response element. Recent studies have identified transcription regulatory factors that bind preferentially to short segments of single-stranded DNA, rather than the conventional double-stranded versions of regulatory elements. Accordingly, in the present study, we have investigated whether the Egr response element may also be regulated by trans factors that bind to single-stranded versions of this cis element. Using gel-shift studies, we have identified a protein complex that binds selectively to the G-rich strand of the Egr response element. In competition studies, an RNA oligonucleotide containing the corresponding G-rich sequence is approximately 25-fold less potent than its DNA counterpart. This DNA binding complex, referred to as GS1, is present in several regions of the rat brain with highest levels in cerebellum; negligible binding activity was detected in multiple peripheral tissues surveyed. UV cross-linking studies revealed two major protein bands with estimated molecular masses of 36 and 30 kDa. The highly restricted tissue distribution of this complex and its sequence-specific binding properties indicate that GS1 may be involved in regulating transcription directed by the Egr response element in brain.
Palytoxin, a highly toxic natural product isolated from zoanthids of the genus Palythoa, is accumulated by a wide range of fishes and marine invertebrates used as food in the Indo-Pacific. It is responsible for many incidents of human morbidity and mortality. The toxin is a potent smooth muscle spasmogen. The cause of the contraction of smooth muscle is unclear, but recent work strongly suggests that it is primarily initiated by the release of neurotransmitters from the motor innervation of the smooth muscle. We show here that palytoxin caused the swelling of the muscle cells and some internal organelles of the anococcygeus muscle of the rat, but no substantial structural damage to the tissue. Axons and Schwann cells were also swollen but the most dramatic feature was the depletion of synaptic vesicles from putative release sites in the axons. Some axons were physically damaged following exposure to the toxin, but this was relatively uncommon (&lt; 10% of all axons studied). In the majority of axons there was no damage to nerve terminal membranes, but there was damage to mitochondria. The depletion of vesicles involved all types-clear, dense-cored, large and small. Our observations and pharmacological data gathered elsewhere, provide a neuropathological basis for the spasmogenic activity of palytoxin.
Gap junctions are the morphological substrate of one class of electrical synapse. The history of the debate on electrical vs. chemical transmission is instructive. One lesson is that Occam's razor sometimes cuts too deep; the nervous system does its operations in a number of different ways and a unitarian approach can lead one astray. Electrical synapses can do many things that chemical synapses can do, and do them just as slowly. More intriguing are the modulatory actions that chemical synapses can have on electrical synapses. Voltage dependence provides an important window on structure function relations of the connexins, even where the dependence may have no physiological role. The new molecular approaches will greatly advance our knowledge of where gap junctions occur and permit experimental manipulation with high specificity.
Interferons (IFNs) are cytokines that produce effects in the CNS even though their production occurs mainly in the periphery. Direct passage of IFNs from blood to CNS could be an important route by which circulating IFNs exert their central effects. In this report, we characterize the pharmacokinetics of the passage of IFNs through the blood-brain and blood-spinal cord barriers in four separate regions: whole brain and the cervical, thoracic and lumbosacral segments of the spinal cord. We found that the spinal cord had greater permeability to IFNs than did the brain. For each corresponding region, the permeability to IFN alpha was higher than that to IFN gamma. Capillary depletion after cardiac perfusion showed that most of the injected IFN was not entrapped by the vasculature but entered the parenchyma of the brain. HPLC showed that most of the IFN gamma entered in intact form. The passage of radioactively labeled IFN gamma into the brain and cervical spinal cord was saturated by a low dose of unlabeled IFN gamma, while passage into the thoracic and lumbosacral spinal cord was not saturated. In contrast, for another cytokine, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha), a saturable transport system was present in distal spinal cord as well as the brain. The results show that IFNs and TNF alpha can enter the CNS from the periphery but with regional differences.
In the primary visual cortex of monkey and cat, ocular dominance and orientation are represented continuously and simultaneously, so that most neighboring neurons respond optimally to visual stimulation of the same eye and orientation. Maps of stimulus orientation are punctuated by singularities referred to as &quot;pinwheel centers,&quot; around which all orientations are represented. Given that the orientation map is mostly continuous, orientation singularities are a mathematical necessity unless the map consists of perfectly parallel rows, and there is no evidence that the singularities play a role in normal function or development. We report here that in cats there is a strong tendency for peaks of ocular dominance to lie on the pinwheel center singularities of the orientation map. This relationship predicts but is not predicted by the tendencies, previously reported, for pinwheels to lie near the center lines of ocular dominance bands and for iso-orientation bands to cross ocular dominance boundaries at right angles. The coincidence of ocular dominance peaks with orientation singularities is likely to reflect a strong underlying functional link between the two visual cortical maps.
Norepinephrine has been proposed to influence signal-to-noise ratio within cortical structures, but the exact cellular mechanisms underlying this influence have not been described in detail. Here we present data on a cellular effect of norepinephrine that could contribute to the influence on signal-to-noise ratio. In brain slice preparations of the rat piriform (olfactory) cortex, perfusion of norepinephrine causes a dose-dependent suppression of excitatory synaptic potentials in the layer containing synapses among pyramidal cells in the cortex (layer Ib), while having a weaker effect on synaptic potentials in the afferent fiber layer (layer Ia). Effects of norepinephrine were similar in dose-response characteristics and laminar selectivity to the effects of the cholinergic agonist carbachol, and combined perfusion of both agonists caused effects similar to an equivalent concentration of a single agonist. In a computational model of the piriform cortex, we have analyzed the effect of noradrenergic suppression of synaptic transmission on signal-to-noise ratio. The selective suppression of excitatory intrinsic connectivity decreases the background activity of modeled neurons relative to the activity of neurons receiving direct afferent input. This can be interpreted as an increase in signal-to-noise ratio, but the term noise does not accurately characterize activity dependent on the intrinsic spread of excitation, which would more accurately be described as interpretation or retrieval. Increases in levels of norepinephrine mediated by locus coeruleus activity appear to enhance the influence of extrinsic input on cortical representations, allowing a pulse of norepinephrine in an arousing context to mediate formation of memories with a strong influence of environmental variables.
The functions of ipsilateral cutaneous reflexes were studied with short trains of stimuli presented pseudorandomly to the superficial peroneal (SP) and tibial nerves during human gait. Electromyograms (EMGs) of tibialis anterior (TA), soleus, lateral and medial gastrocnemius, vastus lateralis (VL), and biceps femoris (BF) muscle were recorded, together with ankle and knee joint angles. Net reflex EMG responses were quantified in each of the 16 parts of the step cycle according to a recently developed technique. After SP nerve stimulation, TA muscle showed a significant suppression during swing phase that was highly correlated to ankle plantarflexion. BF and VL muscles were both excited throughout swing and significantly correlated to knee flexion during early swing. Tibial nerve stimulation caused dorsiflexion during late stance, but plantarflexion during late swing. We argue that SP nerve reflexes are indicative of a stumbling corrective response to nonnoxious electrical stimulation in humans. The correlated kinematic responses after tibial nerve stimulation may allow smooth movement of the swing leg so as to prevent tripping during swing and to assist placing and weight acceptance at the beginning of stance.
In this paper we review some theoretical aspects of positive feedback in the control of movement. The focus is mainly on new theories regarding the reflexive role of sensory signals from mammalian tendon organ afferents. In static postures these afferents generally mediate negative force feedback. But in locomotion there is evidence of a switch to positive force feedback action. Positive feedback is often associated with instability and oscillation, neither of which occur in normal locomotion. We address this paradox with the use of analytic models of the neuromuscular control system. It is shown that positive force feedback contributes to load compensation and is surprisingly stable because the length-tension properties of mammalian muscle provide automatic gain control. This mechanism can stabilize control even when positive feedback is very strong. The models also show how positive force feedback is stabilized by concomitant negative displacement feedback and, unexpectedly, by delays in the positive feedback pathway. Other examples of positive feedback in animal motor control systems are discussed, including the beta-fusimotor system, which mediates positive feedback of displacement. In general it is seen that positive feedback reduces the sensitivity of the controlled extremities to perturbations of posture and load. We conclude that positive force feedback can provide stable and effective load compensation that complements the action of negative displacement and velocity feedback.
This study was prompted by recent evidence for the existence of positive force feedback in feline locomotor control. Our aim was to establish some basic properties of positive force feedback in relation to load compensation, stability, intrinsic muscle properties, and interaction with displacement feedback. In human subjects, muscles acting about the wrist and ankle were activated by feedback-controlled electrical stimulation. The feedback signals were obtained from sensors monitoring force and displacement. The signals were filtered to mimic transduction by mammalian tendon organ and muscle spindle receptors. We found that when muscles under positive force feedback were loaded inertially, they responded in a stable manner with increased active force. The activation attenuated the muscle stretch (yield) that would otherwise occur in the absence of feedback. With enough positive force feedback gain, yield could actually reverse. This behavior, which we termed the affirming reaction, was reminiscent of the mammalian positive supporting reaction, a postural response elicited by contact of the foot with the ground. Muscles under positive force feedback remained stable, even when the loop gain (Gf) was set at levels of 2 or 3. In a linear system, if Gf &gt; 1, instability occurs when the loop is closed. On further investigation, we found that Gf changed with joint angle: it declined as the load-bearing muscle actively shortened. We inferred that in closed-loop operation, the active muscles always shortened until Gf approached unity. In other words, the length-tension curve of active muscle ensures stability even when force-related excitation of motoneurons is very large. Concomitant negative displacement feedback reinforced and stabilized load compensation up to a certain gain, beyond which instability occurred. In further trials we included delays of up to 40 ms in the positive force feedback pathway, to model the delays recently described for tendon organ reflexes in cat locomotion. Contrary to expectations, this did not destabilize the loop. Indeed, when instability was deliberately evoked by setting displacement feedback gain high, delays in the positive force feedback pathway actually stabilized control. The stabilization of positive force feedback by inherent properties of the neuromuscular system increases the functional scope to be expected of feedback from force receptors in biological motor control. Our results provide a rationale for the delayed excitatory action of Ib heteronymous input on extensor motoneurons in cat locomotion.
The eye of Aplysia expresses a robust circadian rhythm of neuronal activity. We dissociated the retinal cells in primary culture and studied isolated pacemaker neurons to identify ionic currents that may have roles in the circadian clock mechanism. Individual neurons were studied with perforated-patch whole cell recording techniques in current- and voltage-clamp modes. Pacemaker neurons had resting potentials near -40 mV and, if neurites had grown out, produced spontaneous action potentials in darkness at &lt;1 Hz. Depolarizing current injections increased the rate of action potential firing. Hyperpolarizing current injections were followed by slowly decaying (1-3 s) afterhyperpolarizations. Four ionic currents were characterized under voltage-clamp, including a Ca current (I(Ca)), a voltage-gated potassium current (I(KV)), an A current (I(A)), and a hyperpolarization-activated Cl current (I(Cl)). I(Cl) was only seen using Cl(-)-filled electrodes when high concentrations of Cl- diffused from the electrode and is therefore unlikely to be important under physiological conditions. The magnitude of I(KV) was significantly larger during the projected zeitgeber predawn phase than during the postdawn phase, whereas the magnitude of I(A) was constant at these circadian phases, suggesting that only I(KV) is controlled by the circadian clock. Serotonin increased I(KV) by 29%, consistent with reports that serotonin suppresses optic nerve activity and phase shifts the circadian rhythm recorded from the intact eye. The enhancement of I(KV) likely contributes to membrane hyperpolarization, and it may be required for phase shifting. The phase-dependent changes in I(KV) provide evidence that each retinal pacemaker neuron contains a circadian clock, but confirmation must await further recordings made from individual pacemaker neurons that are isolated completely from all other cells in primary culture. From the present experiments, it appears that I(KV) is controlled by the circadian clock, in part, and it may be a required element in the pathway that is activated during serotonin-induced phase shifts.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are a major class of excitatory amino acid receptors. Eight mGluR subtypes, coupled to a variety of effector systems, have been cloned. These receptors have been classified into three groups based on amino acid sequence homology, effector systems, and pharmacological profile. Group I mGluRs increase phosphoinositide turnover, whereas groups II and III mGluRs are negatively coupled to adenylyl cyclase. The striatum possesses a high density of mGluR binding sites, and several mGluR mRNAs and proteins are expressed by striatal neurons. In rats, unilateral striatal injection of the nonsubtype selective mGluR agonist 1-aminocyclopentane-1S,3R-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD) results in contralateral rotation with delayed onset, thought to be secondary to an increase in dopamine release. We sought to determine the mGluR subtype(s) involved, the modulation of the rotation by other basal ganglia neurotransmitter systems, and the functional anatomy underlying the rotational behavior. The group I mGluR agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) induced contralateral rotation in a dose-dependent manner, whereas group II and group III agonists were ineffective. Rotation induced by DHPG or 1S,3R-ACPD was attenuated by group I antagonists, but not by group II or group III antagonists. This suggests that the rotation is mediated by group I mGluRs. Rotation induced by DHPG or 1S,3R-ACPD was attenuated by pretreatment with antagonists at muscarinic cholinergic, adenosine A2, dopamine D2, or dopamine D1 receptors. Examination of FOS-like immunoreactivity after group I and group II mGluR agonist administration suggests increased activity in the striatopallidal pathway. However, [14C]-2-deoxyglucose uptake studies indicate increased activity in nuclei of the striatopallidal (indirect) pathway, particularly in the subthalamic nucleus, only after group I mGluR activation.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) plays an important role in the plasmalemmal reuptake of dopamine and, thus, in the termination of normal dopaminergic neurotransmission. DAT is also a major binding site for cocaine and other stimulants, the psychoactive effects of which are associated primarily with the inhibition of dopamine reuptake within mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic neurons. We used electron microscopy with an anti-peptide antiserum directed against the N-terminal domain of DAT to determine the subcellular localization of this transporter in the rat ventral tegmental area (VTA), the region that contains the cell bodies and dendrites of these dopaminergic neurons. We show that in the VTA, almost 95% of the DAT immunogold-labeled profiles are neuronal perikarya and dendrites, and the remainder are unmyelinated axons. Within perikarya and large proximal dendrites, almost all of the DAT immunogold particles are associated with intracellular membranes, including saccules of Golgi and cytoplasmic tubulovesicles. In contrast, within medium- to small-diameter dendrites and unmyelinated axons, most of the DAT gold particles are located on plasma membranes. In dually labeled tissue, peroxidase reaction product for the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase is present in DAT-immunoreactive profiles. These findings suggest that intermediate and distal dendrites are both the primary sites of dopamine reuptake and the principal targets of cocaine and related psychostimulants within dopaminergic neurons in the VTA.
A follow-up evaluation of the effectiveness of bladder management in stroke patients with voiding difficulty was conducted during the period of May-August 1995. The results of this study showed 84% of all stroke patients successfully achieved urinary continence within the first month of stroke. This promising result supports the idea that uncomplicated bladder problems in the acute phase of stroke may be addressed by a management protocol using bladder scanning to estimate volume, intermittent catheterizations/post-void residual regimens, noninvasive voiding strategies and drug therapy to facilitate effective bladder emptying.
A prospective study of patients undergoing computerized tomography (CT)-guided stereotactic biopsy of nonpolar tumors in the dominant hemisphere was undertaken to determine if stereotactic biopsy caused a deterioration of language functions. Language was assessed using the Western Aphasia Battery (WAB) and the Boston Naming Test (BNT) before and after a biopsy sample was obtained. Of 16 patients studied, five (31%) were dysphasic preoperatively. After the biopsy the Aphasia Quotient (AQ), derived from the WAB, had significantly deteriorated in four (80%) of these patients, whereas in the fifth it remained relatively unchanged. One of these patients with an extensive infiltrating hemispheric oligoastrocytoma subsequently recovered normal language function after radiotherapy. In 10 of the 11 patients who had normal language function preoperatively there were no deleterious changes after biopsy in either the WAB subtest or BNT scores. In the other patient whose WAB score was normal preoperatively, there was a significant deterioration in postoperative AQ. This patient, who declined steroid therapy before and after biopsy, had a glioblastoma multiforme in Wernicke's area. A postoperative CT scan revealed no changes from what was shown on preoperative scan. This clinical study shows that CT-guided stereotactic biopsy of nonpolar tumors in the dominant hemisphere using the Brown-Roberts-Wells system and the Sedan-Nashold biopsy cannula carries a 9% risk (95% confidence intervals 0-26%) of impairing language functions if the patient is not dysphasic preoperatively. If the patient is dysphasic preoperatively, there is a very high risk of aggravating the dysphasia with stereotactic biopsy.


A fast and reliable method for the MEKC separation and determination of benzodiazepine antipileptics and their active metabolites in serum has been developed, using a separation buffer composed of borate (pH 9.5), SDS (18 mM), and acetonitrile (14%) as an organic modifier. The method is sensitive enough to be used clinically with a precision of less than 3% for the analysis of nitrazepam, clonazepam, clobazam, diazepam and their desmethyl metabolites in serum.
The crest synapse and its related structures in the locus coeruleus (LC) of the Japanese monkey, Macaca fuscata, were electronmicroscopically studied using noradrenaline (NA) immunohistochemistry and tannic acid fixation. About 20% to 25% of the noradrenergic input to the LC terminated at noradrenergic neurons. About 1/3 of these NA-NA connections formed crest synapses, although conversely, NA-immunoreactive (IR) terminals were found in 10% of all terminals forming crest synapses. The crests showing parent dendrites were clearly NA-IR, and definite nonNA-IR dendritic crests were not found. Thus, crest synapses were present almost exclusively on noradrenergic neurons in the monkey LC. The crests were composed of parallel postsynaptic membranes 120 to 130 nm in width and 550 to 610 nm in length, accompanied by a thick-dense material of cytoplasm, and regular single rows of electron dense subjunctional bodies which were arranged in approximately 8 transverse rows. A maximum of 12 electron-dense subjunctional bodies per row were counted in the middle section, and decreased bilaterally in number. The crests further contacted with the dendritic spiny processes of neighboring NA-IR neurons. These results suggest that the crest synapse is an evolved and powerful synaptic structure which makes it possible for noradrenergic neurons in the LC to fire simultaneously at a slow and constant frequency depending on the behavioral state.
Direct volume rendering is a visualization method that allows display of all information hidden in three-dimensional data sets of, for example, computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In contrast to commonly used surface rendering methods, these algorithms need no preprocessing but suffer from a high computational complexity. A real-time rendering system, VIRIM (Vitec: Visualization Technology GmbH, Mannheim, Germany), cuts down rendering times of minutes on normal workstations to an interactive rate of 1 second or less. The immediate visual feedback allows interactive steering of the visualization process to achieve insight into the internal three-dimensional structure of objects. Additional information is obtained by using an interactive gray-value segmentation tool that both allows segmentation of the data set according to bone, tissue, and liquor and display of multifunctional data sets (e.g., functional MRI [fMRI] data sets). Thus, real-time direct volume rendering allows segmentation and volume data processing of functional and anatomical MR data sets simultaneously. As this method can be integrated in the clinical routine, it is of great importance for real-time motion artifact detection and the interpretation of fMRI data acquired during cognitive experiments with normal subjects and psychiatric patients. Because of the free programmability of VIRIM, more complex matching procedures are currently being investigated for future implementation.
Eph-related receptor tyrosine kinases and ligands are expressed at high levels in the developing nervous system, giving rise to the proposal that they are involved in neuronal connection. Cek8 was found to be predominantly expressed on a subset of motoneurons innervating limb but not body muscles during motoneuron axonal growth. Here we show that the ligands RAGS and ELF-1 were expressed in limb buds and that they activated Cek8 when presented in membrane-bound or clustered forms of Fc chimeric proteins but not in unclustered soluble forms. When chick embryonic motoneurons enriched by panning were cultured on clustered forms of RAGS-Fc and ELF-1-Fc, the neutrite growth of motoneurons expressing Cek8 was inhibited. Our results show a relationship between receptor phosphorylation and neurite growth inhibition and suggest that Eph-related kinases and ligands have a regulatory effect on the axon growth of motoneurons during development.
The investigation of neurohistological specimens by image analysis has become an important tool in morphological neuroscience. The problems which arise during the processing of these images are non-trivial, especially if a pattern recognition of cells in the imaged tissue is intended. One of the major problems faced concerns the segmentation of structures of interest, whether cells or other histologic structures. The segmentation problem is often the result of an inappropriate staining procedure. For serious image analysis to be performed, the material under investigation must be optimally prepared. Spatially complex patterns, e.g. fuzzy-like neighbouring neurons, are easy to recognize for humans. But the integrative and associative performance of current artificial neuronal network schemes is too low to achieve the same recognition quality as humans do. Therefore, a general analysis of staining characteristics was performed, especially with respect to those stains which are relevant to object segmentation. Although most image analytical investigations of tissues are based on stained samples, a study of this type has not been previously conducted. Of the stains and procedures evaluated, the gallocyanin chrome alum combination staining provided the best stain contrast. Furthermore, this staining method shows sufficient constancy within different parts of the human brain. Even the fine nuclear textures are differentiable and can be used for further pattern recognition procedures.
An uncommon case of contralateral massive subdural collection developing acutely after a neuroendoscopic third ventriculostomy is presented. The patient developed a cardiorespiratory arrest in the recovery room where he could be successfully resuscitated. He made a complete recovery following aspiration of the subdural collection.
There is mounting evidence, primarily from research in experimental animals, that the dipeptide N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) and its metabolic enzyme, N-acetylated alpha-linked acid dipeptidase (NAALADase), are involved in glutamatergic neurotransmission. Previous studies in neuropsychiatric disorders associated with the dysregulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission, such as schizophrenia, seizure disorders, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), have revealed region-specific alterations in the levels of NAAG and in the activity of NAALADase. To establish better the cellular localization of these and related parameters in human brain, we have examined their alterations in two well-characterized selective neurodengenerative disorders, Huntington Disease (HD) and Alzheimer Disease (AD). Brain regions from postmortem controls and HD- or AD-affected individuals were assayed to determine the activity of NAALADase as well as the levels of NAAG, N-acetylaspartate (NAA), and several amino acids. The relationships between changes in these neurochemical parameters and changes in neuronal and glial cell density were determined. The present report demonstrates that the decreases in the levels of NAAG and NAA and in the activity of NAALADase in AD and HD brain correlate primarily with neuronal loss. By inference, the results suggest that NAAG and NAA have primarily a neuronal localization in human brain and that there is a close relationship between NAAG and the dipeptidase NAALADase in populations of affected neurons.
The use of hypothermia to mitigate cerebral ischemic injury is not new. From early studies, it has been clear that cooling is remarkably neuroprotective when applied during global or focal ischemia. In contrast, the value of postischemic cooling is typically viewed with skepticism because of early clinical difficulties and conflicting animal data. However, more recent rodent experiments have shown that a protracted reduction in temperature of only a few degrees Celsius can provide sustained behavioral and histological neuroprotection. Conversely, brief or very mild hypothermia may only delay neuronal damage. Accordingly, protracted hypothermia of 32-34 degrees C may be beneficial following acute clinical stroke. A thorough mechanistic understanding of postischemic hypothermia would lead to a more selective and effective therapy. Unfortunately, few studies have investigated the mechanisms by which postischemic cooling conveys its beneficial effect. The purpose of this article is to evaluate critically the effects of postischemic temperature changes with a comparison to some current drug therapies. This article will stimulate new research into the mechanisms of lengthy postischemic hypothermia and its potential as a therapy for stroke patients.
Maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) is becoming widely used for monitoring disease progression in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We evaluated the variability of MVIC in a large multicenter (29 sites) drug trial in ALS. Intra- and interrater variability were assessed twice during the 19-month study. Intrarater reliability increased from the first to the second test, approaching the reliability reported for a single experienced clinical evaluator, but interrater reliability did not. Multiple clinical evaluators in a single site increased the variability of MVIC measurements. Rigorous quality assurance standards and monitoring of clinical evaluators should be incorporated into the design of multicenter studies using MVIC, since low variability is necessary to detect a modest treatment effect.
gamma 2-Melanocyte-stimulating hormone (gamma 2-MSH) and related melanotropins have been shown to have various cardiovascular effects, including acute, short-lasting increases in blood pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR). gamma 2-MSH, administered intravenously, dose-dependently increased MAP and HR with an ED50 of approximately 30 nmol/kg and a maximal effect on MAP of approximately 55 mm Hg and on HR of around 70 beats per minute. Intravenous (i.v.) pretreatment with the alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, prazosin, caused the dose-response curve for the effect of gamma 2-MSH on MAP to shift to the right with a decrease in slope, whereas it had no effect on the dose-response curve for the effect on HR. I.v. pretreatment with the beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, metoprolol, had no effect on the dose-response curve for the effect of gamma 2-MSH on MAP, but it caused the dose-response curve for the effect of the peptide on HR to shift to the right with a decrease in slope. Neither i.v. nor intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of the vasopressin V1A receptor antagonist, SR 49059 ((2S) 1-[(2R 3S)-5-chloro-3-(2-chlorophenyl)-1-(3,4-dimethoxy-benzene-sulfonyl)- 3-hydroxy-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-2-carbonyl]-pyrrolidine-2-carboxamide), had significant effects on the dose-response curves for the effects of the peptide on either MAP or HR. The doses of prazosin, metoprolol and SR 49059 were found to be effective in counteracting the effects of agonists for these receptors (phenylephrine, isoprenaline and [Arg8]vasopressin, respectively). Taken together, these results support the postulate that the effects of gamma 2-MSH are, at least partially, due to an increase in sympathetic outflow to the periphery (Gruber and Callahan (1989), Am J Physiol 257: R681-R694), and that this increase leads to increased activation of vascular alpha 1-adrenoceptors and cardiac beta 1-adrenoceptors. If, as was suggested by these authors, gamma 2-MSH acts via activation of a central vasopressin system, it is via a vasopressin receptor subtype other than the vasopressin V1A receptor, since i.c.v. administration of a selective vasopressin V1A receptor antagonist failed to interfere with the pressor and cardioaccelerator effects of gamma 2-MSH.
There is a world-wide renaissance of neurosurgical treatments of Parkinson's disease (PD), based on substantial progress in basic sciences. A model of parallel motor circuitry has identified potential targets for lesioning by clarifying the pathophysiological role of the basal ganglia in PD. The internal globus pallidus (Gpi) is an essential player as it connects to thalamocortical projections and can be disinhibited by overactivity of the nucleus subthalamicus (Nst). Lesioning of these targets has been successful in MPTP damaged primates. There is clinical use of destructive as well as restorative and stimulative technics. Pallidotomy and thalamatomy have evolved by the use of better neuroradiological and electrophysiological targeting. The first technic is used for treatment of rigidity, hypokinesia and dyskinesias, the latter one has proven to be efficient for tremor. Dopaminergic reinnervation and increased dopaminergic output of the striatum has only been seen after transplantation of fetal cells; this method however carries immunological and ethical problems. The continuous high frequency stimulation of basal ganglia is the newest technic; it is highly adaptable to the patient's need and carries a low morbidity profile. Thalamic stimulation is used for the treatment of tremor. The stimulation of Nst and Gpi are proposed for dyskinesias and on/off phenomena. Animal research further focuses on xenotransplantation and implantation of genetically transformed cells or pluripotent precursor cells.--In summary neurosurgical procedures seem to be very promising; however longterm comparison studies are needed to define the best (combination) treatment(s) for the future.
[4,5-3H]Docosahexaenoic acid ([3H]DHA) or [9,10-3H]palmitic acid ([3H]PAM) was infused intravenously for 5 min to awake, adult male rats before and after treatment with arecoline (15 mg/kg, i.p.), a cholinergic agonist. Animals were killed 15 min post-infusion, the brains were rapidly removed and subcellular fractions were obtained after sucrose density centrifugation. In control animals, [3H]DHA and [3H]PAM were incorporated into the synaptosomal fractions, representing 50%-60% of total membrane label. Most remaining membrane label (30%-40%) was in the microsomal fraction. Both fractions contained the synaptic marker synaptophysin. The remaining 10% of radioactivity was in the myelin and mitochondrial fractions. Arecoline significantly increased [3H]DHA entry into the synaptosomal fractions by 100% and into the microsomal fraction by 50%. In these fractions 60%-65% of the [3H]DHA was in phospholipid, the rest corresponding to free fatty acid and diacylglycerol. In contrast, arecoline did not change [3H]PAM incorporation into any brain fraction. These results demonstrate that plasma [3H]DHA incorporation is selectively increased into synaptic membrane phospholipids of the rat brain in response to cholinergic activation. The increased incorporation of DHA but not of PAM into synaptic membranes in response to cholinergic stimulation indicates a primary role for DHA in phospholipid mediated signal transduction at the synapse involving activation of phospholipase A2 and/or C.
The amphibian Xenopus laevis adjusts the color of its skin to the degree of background illumination. The neuroendocrine mechanism responsible for this adaptation behavior involves various brain centers that control the synthesis and release of alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) by the pituitary melanotrope cells. The aim of the present study was to investigate the possible use of Fos as a tool to determine the activity of known and novel components of this mechanism. For this purpose, a quantitative Fos-immunocytochemical method (ABC) was successfully introduced for Xenopus, and the degree of specificity of background illumination as a regulator of Fos expression was tested by comparing this stimulus with two other stimuli, viz. a strong stressor (saline immersion) and a mild stressor ('handling'). Without stimulation basal Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI) was found in the telencephalon, the lateral pallium, the anterior, central and lateral thalamic nuclei, the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the ventral hypothalamic nucleus and the torus semicircularis. Handling had no effect on this basal pattern of Fos-LI. Saline immersion induced Fos-LI only in the magnocellular preoptic nucleus, the corticotrope cells and, less strongly, in the melanotrope cells. Melanotropes, and no other cells, expressed Fos-LI very strongly when Xenopus was transferred from a white to a black background. This Fos-LI expression continued to increase up to 7 days of stimulation. When such toads were returned to a white background it took the same time before Fos-LI expression significantly dropped. It is concluded that the ABC-Fos immunocytochemistry can be successfully applied to assess the occurrence and degree of expression of Fos-LI in the Xenopus brain and pituitary gland. The prolonged expression of Fos-LI in the pars intermedia under black background stimulation and the presence of an AP-1 binding site on the Xenopus proopiomelanocortin gene suggest an important role for c-Fos and/or Fos-related antigens in the control of the biosynthesis and secretion of alpha-MSH by the Xenopus melanotrope cell.
This paper reports on the effectiveness of oral lamotrigine in 15 patients suffering from &quot;essential&quot; trigeminal neuralgia and in five patients suffering symptomatic trigeminal neuralgia concomitant with multiple sclerosis. We recorded objective and subjective pain ratings and correlated them to daily dosage (400 mg maximum) and plasma levels of the drug. We detected pain relief proportional to daily dosage and to drug plasma levels. Eleven of the cases affected by the &quot;essential&quot; form of neuralgia showed complete pain relief on reaching their maximum daily dosage. All cases affected by the symptomatic form had complete pain relief. We could detect no changes from these results by the end of the follow-up period (3 to 8 months after the study ended).
We report on a young man with fibromuscular dysplasia involving the basilar artery detected at autopsy. He presented with sudden onset of stroke, and the lesion was complicated by thrombosis and dissection of the vessel wall. The organizing thrombotic lesion of the basilar artery was responsible for the ventral pontine infarct that resulted in &quot;locked-in syndrome.&quot;
Glial cells in the brain express neurotransmitter receptors and can respond appropriately to application of exogenous neurotransmitters such as glutamate. However, activation of receptors by endogenous, synaptically released transmitter has been difficult to demonstrate directly. Using cell-pair recording in cerebellar cultures from embryonic mouse, it is shown that activation of a cerebellar granule neuron can give rise to a rapid inward current in an adjacent glial cell. This current is mediated by activation of Ca2+-permeable AMPA/kainate receptors and is largely independent of glutamate reuptake or gap junctional coupling. Furthermore, prolonged stimulation of the granule neuron at 4 Hz can give rise to long-term potentiation (LTP) of the glial synaptic current that has similar properties to LTP of granule neuron-Purkinje neuron synaptic transmission--its induction is independent of postsynaptic depolarization, postsynaptic Ca2+ influx, or glutamate receptor activation but requires presynaptic Ca2+ influx. These findings suggest a model in which cerebellar LTP is both induced and expressed presynaptically and therefore may be detected by either neuronal or glial postsynaptic cells.
Alfred Meyer and his colleagues were the first to report (1954-1956) that the most frequent pathology in tissue from patients with complex partial seizures successfully treated by anterior temporal lobectomy is mesial temporal sclerosis, and that the majority of patients with this lesion give a history of a prolonged seizure early in life. These observations have been repeatedly confirmed. Experimental data from animal models strongly supports the hypothesis that a prolonged generalized or limbic seizure in early life damages the hippocampus and other limbic structures, facilitating an epileptogenic process that, after a latent period, gives rise to spontaneous limbic seizures. Some mechanisms potentially contributing to this process have been identified.
X-linked hydrocephalus, MASA syndrome and certain forms of X-linked spastic paraplegia and agenesis of corpus callosum are now known to be due to mutations in the gene for the neural cell adhesion molecule L1 (19, 30). As a result, these syndromes have recently been reclassified as CRASH syndrome, an acronym for Corpus callosum hypoplasia, Retardation, Adducted thumbs, Spasticity and Hydrocephalus (8). A comparison of existing case reports with molecular genetic analysis reveals a striking correlation between the type of mutation in the L1CAM gene and the severity of the disease. Mutations that produce truncations in the extracellular domain of the L1 protein are more likely to produce severe hydrocephalus, grave mental retardation or early death than point mutations in the extracellular domain or mutations affecting only the cytoplasmic domain of the protein. While less severe than extracellular truncations, point mutations in the extracellular domain do produce more severe neurologic problems than mutations in just the cytoplasmic domain.
Ten early neonatal sudden death victims (ENSD) were selected for neuropathological and immunohistochemical examinations. The gestational ages of the victims ranged from 36 to 42 weeks, and the postnatal ages from 8 hours to 10 days of life. In 6 of 10 patients, softening with rarefaction was observed in the subcortical or intermediate white matter, which was associated with minimal astrogliosis in the whole white matter. In 7 of the 10 ENSD victims, the number of GFAP-positive glia was significantly greater in both the deep and subcortical white matter than in controls. The brainstem showed mild gliosis in the reticular formation and vagal nuclei of the medulla oblongata in 8 of the 10 ENSD victims. In 8 of the 10 ENSD victims, the number of GFAP-positive astrocytes was greater in both the dorsal vagal nucleus and the reticular formation of the medulla oblongata than in controls. The high incidence of leukomalacia and astrogliosis in the cerebral white matter and brainstem suggests the presence of brain ischemic insults before death, which may be prenatal in some cases.
Enhancement of GABAA receptor function with benzodiazepine (BZ) site agonists can disrupt memory formation and hippocampal synaptic plasticity. To investigate this further the effects of the agonist, flunitrazepam, were contrasted with that of the inverse agonist, methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (DMCM), on NMDA-dependent LTP induction in the CA1 region of mouse hippocampus. Under control conditions, a priming stimulus (10 stimuli at 100 Hz) potentiated e.p.s.p. slopes by 198%, and subsequent burst stimuli (4 x 10 events at 100 Hz every 20 sec) by 306%. This potentiation was blocked by the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 and the glycine site antagonist L-701,324. Flunitrazepam (1 microM) alone caused a slight but significant reduction in e.p.s.p.s to 83% of control, suppressed LTP induced by priming stimuli (133%) and burst stimuli (188%), but not that induced by sustained high-frequency stimulation (2 x 100 events at 100 Hz, 20 sec apart). The suppression of LTP induction by flunitrazepam was blocked by the benzodiazepine site antagonist flumazenil. In contrast, the inverse agonist DMCM (100 nM) potentiated LTP formed by both priming (to 283%) and burst stimuli (to 477%). This was associated with an enhancement of paired pulse facilitation during the induction phase and the subsequent appearance of paroxysmal burst discharges. Therefore, in addition to improvements in learning and memory as a result of improved vigilance, benzodiazepine inverse agonists can have direct effects on synaptic processes thought to contribute to memory formation.
The effect of distractor load on visual search was examined in a patient with visual neglect following infarction of the right frontal lobe. The spatial extent of his left-sided neglect was modified greatly by changing stimulus attributes. When targets were highly discriminable compared to distractors, or distractor density was low, or when the subject was asked to cancel distractors as well as targets, he was able to direct his search to the extreme left of search arrays and there was little or no evidence of neglect. By contrast, similar changes in distractor load had little or no effect on the neglect of a patient with a fronto-parietal lesion. These findings suggest that distractability towards ipsilesional stimuli may be an important component of neglect in individuals with only frontal lobe injury.
The locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic system is activated by a range of arousing and stressful stimuli. The serotonergic inputs to this structure have been shown to attenuate LC activation under some conditions. The present study examined the effect of fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) known to be a clinically effective antidepressant, on basal and stress-induced norepinephrine (NE) release. Basal and stress-induced NE efflux in the rat hippocampus were assessed using in vivo microdialysis techniques. The effect of a 30 minute tailpinch stressor on extracellular concentration of NE was compared in rats treated with fluoxetine either once prior to tailpinch or twice daily for 14 days and, respectively, in unhandled controls and vehicle-treated control animals. A single fluoxetine injection prior to tailpinch did not significantly alter the tailpinch-induced increase of extracellular NE as compared to naive controls. However, there was an enhanced NE response to tailpinch in chronic fluoxetine versus chronic vehicle-treated control rats. Thus, acute blockade of 5-HT uptake by fluoxetine does not affect NE release in response to tailpinch stress. Chronic fluoxetine administration, however, results in a potentiated evoked response of the LC-NE system. One action of chronic fluoxetine, which may relate to therapeutic efficacy, is an increase in responsivity of LC neurons.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is valuable for assessing the biochemistry and physiology of the human brain. A computerised brain atlas has been developed which allows demonstration of anatomical regions of PET images and manipulation of these images into a standardised anatomical space. Once the images are in this standardised three-dimensional space it is possible to make comparisons between individuals and groups of individuals. We describe the use of this atlas in the generation of a set of mean reference images using methionine PET images of normal volunteers.
Motor nerve transection in adult rats induce a series of metabolic and structural changes in the injured neurons as well as in surrounding glial cells; however, without substantial neuronal degeneration. In the present study we found, in contrast with axotomy, a massive neuronal death in the ipsilateral hypoglossal nucleus following injection of toxic ricin (RCA) into the hypoglossal nerve, which is in line with previous observations. Injection of RCA enables examination of the glial reaction in a situation where neuronal degeneration is profound, which has been the approach in the present study. We found an increase in OX42-, GFAP-, and transferrin-immunoreactivity in microglial, astroglial, and oligodendroglial cells respectively, in the ipsilateral hypoglossal nucleus three to seven days following injection of toxic ricin in the hypoglossal nerve. Proliferation was found in astrocytes as well as in microglial cells, as shown by uptake of bromodeoxyuridine. In addition, the complement cascade was activated locally in the ipsilateral hypoglossal nucleus, as demonstrated by immunohistochemical detection of complement components C3d and C9. Complement activation may serve several effects in the glial-neuronal interactions. Stimulation of phagocytosis by reactive microglia is probably the most important one. Furthermore, the degenerative neuronal somata showed increased immunoreactivity for clusterin, which is a known complement inhibitor, but a decrease in clusterin-mRNA. In conclusion, the glial cell response was in several aspects principally different following massive motorneuron degeneration induced by toxic ricin in comparison to previous findings reported after axotomy.
Ampullary electroreceptor organs of catfish, Ictalurus melas, were exposed apically to caffeine solutions at concentrations of 0, 5, 7.5, 10, and 15 mM. Recording sinusoidally-modulated activity of single-unit afferents reveals a dose-dependent decrease in mean afferent activity and sensitivity. A rebound effect of average activity occurs after caffeine is washed out. After 25 min exposure to 15 mM caffeine the peak of the gain curve shifts from 8 Hz to 4 Hz. The corresponding phase characteristic shows an increased phase lag with a maximum shift of 35 degrees at 20 Hz. The latency between stimulus and response increases from 12 to 19 ms; the recovery time after onset of the pulse decreases with 60 ms. The most probable explanation for the recorded effects is that caffeine reduces the availability of intracellular Ca2+ by blocking of the inositol triphosphate receptors in the endoplasmic reticulum. This in turn would affect many intracellular properties and processes. The unavailability of Ca2+ could reduce the synaptic efficacy and increase latency by suppressing fusion of synaptic vesicles with the presynaptic membrane and by depressing vesicle transport. The change in frequency response corresponds in part to reduction of the apical membrane surface area of the receptor cells, and in part to the increased latency. Accumulation of glutamate-containing vesicles could account for the higher mean activity and modulation amplitude in the lower frequency range after caffeine is washed out. Caffeine might act postsynaptically by inducing hyperpolarization of the terminals of the primary afferents.
Macroscopic and microscopic currents have been recorded using human microglia isolated from fetal human brains (12-20 weeks gestation). Within a period of two days following plating of cells, inward K+ currents were small (mean amplitude of 0.3 nA at -100 mV) and outward K+ currents were not observed. For periods in excess of five days after adherence to substrate, an inactivating outward K+ current, sensitive to 4-aminopyridine, was expressed. A slowly rising current, blocked by tetraethylammonium, was also evident in a small population of human microglia. This current was activated with cell depolarization positive to +10 mV and had properties similar to those recently described for a proton current in mouse cells. In early adherent cells (days 1 or 2 after plating), treatment of microglia with interferon-gamma led to the expression of outward K+ current which was lacking in the absence of the treatment. In excised, inside-out patches, two high conductance channels were identified. A calcium-dependent K+ channel (unitary conductance of 106 pS with physiological levels of K+ across the patch) had an open probability of 0.5 with internal Ca2+ at 7 microM and the patch potential at 0 mV. In addition, an anion channel (unitary conductance of 280 pS) was transiently activated with depolarizing or hyperpolarizing steps applied from 0 mV. Characterization of the macroscopic and unitary properties of currents in microglia will have relevance to a description of putative cell functions in the human CNS. In particular, modification of cell electrophysiological properties by various activating stimuli may contribute to signalling processes in CNS pathology.
A &quot;reduced retina&quot; preparation, consisting of the photoreceptor layer attached to the pigment epithelium in the eyecup, was used to study the pharmacology of the calcium channels controlling glutamate release by photoreceptors in Xenopus. Glutamate release was evoked either by dark adaptation or by superfusion with elevated (20 mM) potassium medium. Both darkness- and potassium-induced release were blocked by cadmium (200 microM). The N-type calcium channel blocker, omega-conotoxin GVIA (500 nM), the P-type calcium channel blocker, omega-agatoxin IVA (20 nM), and the P- and Q-type channel blocker omega-conotoxin MVIIC (1 microM) had no effect on glutamate release. In contrast, the dihydropyridines, nifedipine (10 microM) and nitrendipine (10 microM), which affect L-type calcium channels, blocked both darkness- and potassium-induced release. Bay K 8644 (10 microM), which promotes the open state of L-type calcium channels, enhanced glutamate release. These results indicate that photoreceptor glutamate release is controlled mainly by dihydropyridine-sensitive calcium channels. A dependence of glutamate release on L-type calcium channels also has been reported for depolarizing bipolar cells of a fish retina. Thus, it appears that non-inactivating L-type calcium channels are appropriate to mediate transmitter release in neurons whose physiological responses are sustained, graded potentials.
The release of ATP was studied in cultures of astrocytes derived from the brain hemispheres of newborn rats. There was a basal efflux of ATP, which was increased up to 19-fold by glutamate (300-1000 microM). N-methyl-D-aspartate (20-500 microM), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA; 30-100 microM) and kainate (20 microM). The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-selective antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (100 microM) blocked the effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate but not the effects of AMPA, kainate and glutamate. The AMPA receptor-selective antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(f)quinoxaline (30 microM) blocked the effect of AMPA and also of glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate, but not the effect of kainate. The kainate receptor-selective antagonist D-glutamyl-amino-methanesulfonate (30 microM) blocked the effect of kainate but not of glutamate. Glutamate (1000 microM) did not increase the release of lactate dehydrogenase from astrocytes. Excitatory amino acids are known to release adenyl compounds in the brain. The present results identify one adenyl compound thus released, namely ATP, and identify astrocytes as one source. The release is brought about by activation of any of the three ionotropic glutamate receptor types-N-methyl-D-aspartate, AMPA and kainate receptors. AMPA receptors seem to mediate at least a part of the effect of glutamate itself, but the involvement of other receptors cannot be ruled out. ATP and its degradation products, such as adenosine, once released, may exert acute as well as trophic effects on neurons and glial cells.
In previous studies we reported that large-amplitude inhibitory potentials were elicited in masseter motoneurons by auditory stimuli (95-dB clicks) and stimulation of the sciatic nerve in alpha-chloralose-anesthetized cats [Kohlmeier K. A. et al. (1994) Soc. Neurosci. Abstr. 20, 1218; Kohlmeier K. A. et al. (1995) Sleep Res. 24, 9]. These potentials were always elicited during motor atonia induced by the pontine injection of carbachol into the nucleus pontis oralis and were never elicited prior to atonia. In the present report, the hyperpolarizing potentials that arose in response to clicks and stimulation of the sciatic nerve were blocked following the juxtacellular application of strychnine, a glycinergic antagonist. In contrast, bicuculline, a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, did not suppress the carbachol-dependent hyperpolarizing potentials elicited by these stimuli. In some motoneurons, blockade of the inhibitory potential by strychnine revealed a depolarizing potential. These data suggest that clicks and stimulation of the sciatic nerve not only elicit inhibition of motoneurons but also activate an excitatory drive which is masked by elicited inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. These findings suggest that glycine is likely to be the neurotransmitter that is responsible for the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials elicited in masseter motoneurons following the presentation of auditory and somatosensory stimuli during carbachol-induced motor atonia. We suggest that the same system that mediates glycinergically-dependent motor atonia during naturally occurring active sleep [Chase M. H. et al. (1989) J. Neurosci. 9, 743-751] also mediates the carbachol-dependent response of motoneurons to sensory stimuli.
Aminopeptidase A is a membrane-bound zinc metalloprotease which cleaves angiotensin II into angiotensin III. Using a new specific aminopeptidase A inhibitor, EC33, we evaluated its enzymatic activity in several microdissected brain nuclei involved in the control of cardiovascular functions and in the pituitary. We compared this distribution with that of the angiotensin I-converting enzyme which converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II. Aminopeptidase A activity was heterogenously distributed with a 150-fold difference between the lowest and the highest levels. The pituitary and the circumventricular organs were the richest source of enzyme, followed by the median eminence, the arcuate nucleus, the area postrema, the choroid plexus and the supraotic and paraventricular nuclei. We did not find any close parallel between aminopeptidase A and angiotensin I-converting enzyme distributions. We examined both enzymatic activities in brain nuclei of spontaneously hypertensive rats. Aminopeptidase A activity was higher in the spontaneously hypertensive rats than in age-matched Wistar Kyoto control rats. The difference was up to 2.5-fold in several brain nuclei involved in the blood pressure regulation; in contrast, no differences in angiotensin I-converting enzyme activity were found in the same regions. The close correspondence between the distribution of aminopeptidase A activity and angiotensin receptors and nerve terminals in the brain associated with the observation that aminopeptidase A activity was overactivated in the spontaneously hypertensive rats suggest that this enzyme may contribute, at least in part, to the regulation of cardiovascular functions by its ability to convert angiotensin II to angiotensin III.
Glucocorticoids are known to exert multiple effects upon neuronal systems and neuronal gene expression but the molecular mechanisms through which these effects are mediated are largely undefined. In this study, a transgenic mouse model that expresses a bovine vasopressin transgene was used to investigate the mechanisms by which this neuropeptide gene is repressed by glucocorticoids. Using both northern analysis and a reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction assay, depletion of glucocorticoids with the 11,beta-hydroxylase inhibitor metyrapone was shown to result in a dexamethasone-reversed increase in ectopic adrenal transgene messenger RNA levels. This result shows that sequences within the confines of the 3.5 kb transgene are sufficient to mediate repression by glucocorticoids, and indicates the involvement of a type II glucocorticoid receptor mechanism which is independent of cellular context. Evidence for the involvement of cis-acting repressive elements in the proximal 5' flanking sequence was obtained in further studies in which bovine transgene constructs were shown to be negatively regulated by dexamethasone in 293 cells. The further demonstration that recombinant glucocorticoid receptor binds to a vasopressin promoter fragment in an in vitro electrophoretic mobility shift assay provided additional evidence of a direct mechanism of repression. Both in vitro studies were consistent with the presence of a glucocorticoid regulatory element within the region -300 to 155 of the transcription start site. The use of an in vivo transgenic system combined with in vitro analyses of gene promoter fragments enabled the characterization of the molecular mechanisms which effect physiological changes in vasopressin gene expression, and provided evidence of a direct mechanism of repression mediated by sequences within the vasopressin gene promoter.
The relation between c-fos expression in the forebrain of Lister hooded rats and water and NaCl intakes was examined in response to systemic injection of angiotensin II, desoxycorticosterone, angiotensin II and desoxycorticosterone together, frusemide or low sodium diet, all treatments that induce a sodium appetite. Angiotensin II (1 mg/kg subcutaneously) caused significant increases in the 1-h intakes of water and 1.8% NaCl compared to controls, the effect on water intake being the greater. There was a similar increase in NaCl intake after four days' treatment with desoxycorticosterone (20 mg pellet subcutaneously) but water intake was not increased. The NaCl intake of rats given angiotensin II following desoxycorticosterone treatment was approximately the sum of the intakes after angiotensin II or desoxycorticosterone alone, but the water intake was slightly less than after angiotensin II alone. Frusemide pretreatment (4 mg/kg subcutaneously) caused an NaCl intake similar to that following angiotensin II and desoxycorticosterone but water intake was little affected. Low dietary sodium also increased salt appetite, as expected. These treatments were repeated in rats that were not allowed to drink NaCl, after which the brains were processed for c-fos immunocytochemistry. This showed intense staining of the subfornical organ, median preoptic nucleus, organum vasculosum of the laminal terminalis, paraventricular nucleus and supraoptic nucleus after subcutanous angiotensin II. Animals given angiotensin II following desoxycorticosterone pretreatment showed patterns of c-fos expression that did not differ from those of angiotensin II alone. Treatment with desoxycorticosterone alone produced intense staining in the organum vasculosum of the laminal terminalis and some staining in the median preoptic nucleus. Frusemide gave a similar pattern of staining to desoxycorticosterone, stimulating c-fos expression in the same regions but to a lesser extent. A low salt diet resulted in increased c-fos expression only in the organum vasculosum of the laminal terminalis. Therefore, five different treatments that induced increased sodium appetite evoked distinct patterns of c-fos expression in the anteroventral region of the third ventricle of the rat forebrain. Since the common feature was induction of c-fos in the organum vasculosum of the laminal terminalis, these results suggest a key role for this structure in the development of increased sodium appetite.
Although the importance of the rostral ventromedial medulla in pain modulation is generally accepted, the recognition that it can exert both pain facilitating and pain inhibiting influences, and that its constituent neuronal population is physiologically and pharmacologically heterogeneous, is relatively recent. A class of neuron which may be a source of facilitating influences from the rostral ventromedial medulla has been identified in electrophysiological experiments. These neurons, termed &quot;on-cells,&quot; are characterized by a sudden burst of activity beginning just before nocifensive reflexes. This burst of firing is thought to be a significant factor in brainstem control of nociceptive transmission under physiological conditions. The aim of the present study was to determine whether an excitatory amino acid is involved in generation of the reflex-related burst that defines on-cells, and more generally, to examine the role of excitatory amino acid neurotransmitters within the rostral ventromedial medulla of the rat. Iontophoretic application of the broad-spectrum excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist kynurenate significantly reduced the reflex-related on-cell burst, whereas ongoing firing was unaffected. Spontaneous activity of other medullary neurons was unchanged. These data demonstrate that release of an endogenous excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter is necessary for the activation of on-cells that is associated with nocifensive reflexes. In contrast, these receptors evidently play a much less significant role in maintaining the ongoing activity of any cell class in the rostral ventromedial medulla in lightly anaesthetized rats.
The electrical activity of locus coeruleus neurons was investigated during cortical spreading depression in urethane-anaesthetized rats. Cortical spreading depression was induced by a direct application of 1-3 M KCl solution to the surface of the cerebral cortex. The occurrence of cortical spreading depression was assessed by recording negative d.c. shifts and in some experiments by monitoring the extracellular potassium concentrations. The mean spontaneous firing rate of locus coeruleus neurons was significantly reduced during cortical spreading depression. Approximately 60% of locus coeruleus neurons recorded during cortical spreading depression revealed anomalous burst activity consisting of multiple initial segment spikes as well as full initial segment-somatodendritic spikes with a marked initial segment-somatodendritic break. Each spike of the cortical spreading depression-related burst activity occurred at intervals ranging from 15.0 ms to 90.1 ms (34.9 +/- 0.5 ms). The burst activity appeared unpredictably at variable intervals in a phasic or tonic manner during cortical spreading depression. The cortical spreading depression-related burst activity of locus coeruleus neurons mimicked antidromic spikes induced by train stimulation of the cerebral cortex at short interspike intervals during iontophoretic application of GABA to locus coeruleus neurons, whereas it was totally different from synaptically-activated burst activity induced by tail pinch. The full spikes and initial segment spikes in the cortical spreading depression-related burst activity failed to collide with cortically elicited antidromic spikes, even when they appeared within the collision interval. The proportion of initial segment spikes in the cortical spreading depression-related burst activity was reduced following an increase in membrane excitability by iontophoretic application of glutamate, and increased during a decreased membrane excitability by GABA application. The antidromic burst activity of locus coeruleus neurons also appeared for a short time during cortical spreading depression prior to the occurrence of seizure waves induced by GABA antagonists, while the burst activity could not be observed during seizure activity. These results indicate that the cortical spreading depression-related burst activity was of antidromic origin and that the marked initial segment-somatodendritic break in spontaneous spikes of locus coeruleus neurons during cortical spreading depression was due to reduced excitability of the somatodendritic membrane. The cortical spreading depression-related burst activity may cause release of a large amount of noradrenaline in vast regions of locus coeruleus terminal fields through the numerous axon collaterals, thereby playing a role in functional changes of brain neurons related to cortical spreading depression.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors have been implicated in neuronal plasticity and their overactivation leads to neurotoxicity. Molecular cloning and co-expression of various glutamate receptor zeta and epsilon complementary DNAs support a heteromeric structural organization for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. In this study, we show that cerebellar granular neurons in primary culture of mouse express glutamate receptor zeta1 and at least three glutamate receptor epsilon (epsilon1, epsilon2, and epsilon3) protein subunits. In vitro, the temporal patterns of glutamate receptor epsilon1, epsilon2, and epsilon3 subunit expression depend on culture stages. By day 9, a somatic and neuritic immunolocalization for all N-methyl-D-aspartate subunits was clearly identified in most neuronal, but not glial cells. The role of particular subunits in N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated excitotoxicity was probed by exposing the cerebellar granule cells to antisense oligodeoxynucleotides generated against specific N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits. Antisense oligodeoxynucleotide treatments significantly down-regulated the amounts of the corresponding N-methyl-D-aspartate subunits. The decrease in N-methyl-D-aspartate subunit protein correlated with a reduction in N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced calcium influx and N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated excitotoxicity in cerebellar cultures. In contrast, antisense oligodeoxynucleotide treatment failed to protect neurons from 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium-induced metabolic cell toxicity. Antisense oligodeoxynucleotide treatment targeted at N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor epsilon subunits demonstrate that glutamate receptor epsilon1, epsilon2, and epsilon3 proteins form N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors responsible for neurotoxic effects on cerebellar neurons. This study provides direct evidence for the existence of distinct N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit proteins in cerebellar granule cells developing in vitro that may trigger N-methyl-D-aspartate-dependent excitotoxicity.
Following our initial mapping of preprogalanin messenger RNA in adult brain and its presence in a subpopulation of cerebellar Purkinje neurons [Ryan M. C. and Gundlach A. C. (1996) Neuroscience 70, 709-728], the present study examined the ontogenic expression of preprogalanin messenger RNA in the postnatal rat brain focussing on the Purkinje cells of the cerebellar cortex. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, preprogalanin messenger RNA was detected in the developing forebrain and hindbrain from postnatal day 4 to day 60 (adult). On postnatal day 4 very light hybridization signal (labelling) was observed in cells of a number of nuclei including the central amygdaloid nucleus, the medial preoptic area, paraventricular nucleus and dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus of the forebrain while lightly-labelled cells were detected in neurons of the nucleus of the solitary tract and locus coeruleus of the hindbrain. Hybridization signal was not apparent in other nuclei until later, with positively-labelled neurons first apparent in the dorsal cochlear nucleus at postnatal day 21. The abundance of preprogalanin messenger RNA-positive neurons and the intensity of the hybridization signal increased, in most regions, until postnatal day 28 when labelling resembled that of the mature rat. Preprogalanin messenger RNA was first detected in the cerebellum on postnatal day 10 only in Purkinje cells of lobule 10 of the posterior vermis and increased in distribution throughout Purkinje cell layers of the entire cerebellar cortex by postnatal day 13. The intensity of hybridization signal in Purkinje cells varied between lobules, with Purkinje cells in lobule 10 displaying a moderate to heavy degree of labelling, while lobules 6-9 and the more posterior lobules of the hemisphere including crus 2 of the ansiform lobule, the paramedian lobule and the copula pyramis, displayed only light labelling. The intensity of labelling in the anterior vermis and the remaining lobules of the hemisphere including crus 1 of the ansiform lobule, the simple lobule, the paraflocculus and the flocculus, was homogeneously weak. By postnatal day 21, Purkinje cell labelling reached maximum intensity in all lobules. Regional differences were still apparent, however, with labelling in the posterior vermis and hemisphere ranging from moderate to heavy, with only light to moderate labelling detected in the anterior vermis. The intensity of labelling in the posterior vermis and most lobules of the hemisphere was similar from postnatal day 21 to adulthood, while, in the anterior vermis, crus 1 of the ansiform lobule and the simple lobule, the intensity of hybridization decreased slightly by postnatal day 28 and was completely absent in Purkinje cells of the adult rat. Differential expression of preprogalanin messenger RNA in Purkinje cells of the developing rat cerebellum and transient expression in certain lobules suggests that galanin gene products may have a role in both the developing and mature rat brain and that galanin gene expression may represent a useful marker for differentiating the anterior and posterior cerebellar lobes.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit messenger RNAs are widely expressed in the retina and several types of second and third order neurons are responsive to N-methyl-D-aspartate. Functional N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are assembled from the NR1 subunit with at least one of the four NR2 subunit variants (NR2A-2D). We have analysed immunohistochemically the cellular distribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors containing the NR2D subunit in the rat and rabbit retina. Using a subunit-specific NR2D antiserum, exclusively bipolar cells with somata localized close to the outer plexiform layer were labelled in both species. The axons were immunoreactive and arborized in the innermost inner plexiform layer. The morphology and localization of these cells, which were much more numerous in rat than in rabbit, suggested that they are rod bipolar cells. This was confirmed in both species by co-localization of the NR2D subunit immunoreactivity with protein kinase C-alpha, a selective marker for rod bipolar cells. At the subcellular level, a distinct polarization in the distribution of NR2D immunoreactivity was demonstrated by confocal laser scanning microscopy: staining was moderate in dendrites arborizing within the outer plexiform layer, intense at that pole of the soma facing the outer plexiform layer, and low in the portion of the soma embedded in the inner nuclear layer. Proximal axonal segments and axonal end-feet in the inner plexiform layer displayed the strongest NR2D subunit immunoreactivity. The axonal staining suggests that neurotransmission of the rod bipolar cells is modulated within the inner plexiform layer by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors containing the NR2D subunit.
The elicitation and reduction of fear were indexed with fear-potentiated startle and corticosterone release and induction of the immediate-early gene c-fos as a marker of neural activity in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Conditioning consisted of pairing one stimulus with footshock, which was withheld when the conditioned stimulus was preceded by a different modality stimulus, the conditioned inhibitor. On the test day, approximately 60% of the rats were used for c-fos in situ hybridization, and were presented with either the conditioned stimulus alone, the conditioned inhibitor alone, a compound of the two stimuli, or no stimuli, and killed 30 min following the presentation of 10 such stimuli. The remaining rats were tested with the fear-potentiated startle paradigm. Rats displayed reliable fear-potentiated startle and corticosterone release to the conditioned stimulus, and both measures were reduced when the conditioned stimulus was preceded by the conditioned inhibitor. The ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, septohypothalamic nucleus, some tegmental nuclei, and the locus coeruleus had particularly high c-fos induction in rats that received the conditioned inhibitor, providing one of the first functional indication that these nuclei might be important in behavioural or endocrine inhibition. Conditioning specific c-fos induction in the three groups that received a stimulus on the test day was observed in many hypothalamic areas, the medial geniculate body and the central gray, structures previously involved in fear and anxiety. The cingulate, infralimbic and perirhinal cortex, nucleus accumbens, lateral septum, dorsal endopiriform nucleus, and ventral tegmental area had higher c-fos induction in rats presented with the fearful conditioned stimulus, confirming previous studies. The amygdala and hippocampus of conditioned rats did not show higher c-fos induction than in rats repeatedly exposed to the context. Many regions displayed c-fos messenger RNA induction in the control condition, suggesting that processes other than fear and anxiety participate in c-fos induction.
Forebrain neuronal connections associated with the cardiovascular response to unilateral, low-intensity, electrical stimulation of the mesencephalic cuneiform nucleus were examined in the halothane-anesthetized and paralysed rat by in situ hybridization histochemistry using specific 35S-labelled oligonucleotides for detection of c-fos and nerve growth factor inducible-A gene (NGFI-A) messenger RNAs. Stimulation of the cuneiform nucleus led to increases in mean arterial pressure and heart rate, whereas no cardiovascular response was observed in animals stimulated in the inferior colliculus or in sham-operated animals [see concurrent mid- and hindbrain study [Lam W. et al. (1996) Neuroscience 71, 193-211]. Cuneiform nucleus stimulation was associated with increased c-fos and NGFI-A messenger RNA levels bilaterally in the ventromedial, dorsomedial and lateroanterior hypothalamic nuclei, lateral and anterior hypothalamic areas, and ipsilaterally in the medial amygdaloid nucleus, at levels significantly greater than those in inferior colliculus-stimulated, sham-operated and naive, unoperated animals. C-fos, but not NGFI-A, messenger RNA expression was increased bilaterally in the piriform cortex and subparafascicular thalamic nucleus. These results are consistent with the existence of direct and indirect projections between the cuneiform nucleus and the aforementioned activated areas, the functions of which may include the control of reproduction and metabolism, as well as cardiovascular regulation. The ipsilateral nature of responses in certain brain areas may be explained by the absence of decussating pathways and/or the presence of multisynaptic connections which attenuate bilateral signal transmission. The existence of structures that are known to receive afferent projections from the cuneiform nucleus, but that were not activated, may be explained by synaptic depolarization not reaching the threshold for immediate early gene expression or by a net inhibitory effect on innervated neurons. Characterization of these activated forebrain regions using other compatible labelling techniques should further elucidate the mechanisms by which these central nervous system structures are integrated in the response to stimulation of the cuneiform nucleus.
We have shown in previous c-fos studies that noxious stimulation or electroacupuncture in deeply anaesthetized rats activate the hypothalamic pituitary corticotrope axis in a specific way. C-fos expression was more pronounced in the arcuate than the paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei, and none occurred in the pituitary intermediate lobe. The absence of the usual autonomic responses to psychological stress, such as tachycardia or blood pressure elevation, suggested a specific action of the somatosensory input on the hypothalamic pituitary axis. To prove this hypothesis, c-fos expression was examined in the paraventricular, arcuate and other hypothalamic nuclei, the pituitary gland, and the A1 and A2 medullary catecholaminergic cell groups of animals deprived of nociceptive primary afferent input by neonatal capsaicin. After noxious stimulation or electroacupuncture, no c-fos enhancement occurred in any of those sites in capsaicin-treated animals, and there was no increased plasma release of adrenocorticotropic hormone. In contrast, the hypothalamic pituitary c-fos activation provoked by immobilization stress though markedly decreased, was not abolished by capsaicin, whereas plasma release of adrenocorticotropic hormone remained undiminished. These findings suggest that noxious stimulation or electroacupuncture act on the hypothalamic pituitary corticotrope axis through an exclusively physical effect depending on the noxious signal elicited in the somatosensory pathway. They also demonstrate the occurrence of a minor somatosensory physical component after forced immobilization, acting on the hypothalamic pituitary axis probably together with the prevalent component of emotional arousal elicited by this form of stress.
This study aimed at investigating the expression of preprocholecystokinin messenger RNA among thalamic-projecting neurons in the dorsal column nuclei of the rat. Thalamic-projecting neurons were identified by injection of cholera toxin subunit b into the ventroposterolateral nucleus. Following immunohistochemical detection of retrogradely transported tracer substance, the expression of preprocholecystokinin messenger RNA in the projection neurons of the dorsal column nuclei was detected by in situ hybridization, using autoradiographic visualization of a 35S-labeled RNA probe complementary to preprocholecystokinin messenger RNA. Many preprocholecystokinin-expressing neurons were seen in the dorsal column nuclei. A large proportion of these neurons were also labeled with cholera toxin. The double-labeled neurons, as well as neurons single-labeled with preprocholecystokinin messenger RNA or cholera toxin, were preferentially found within the middle region of the dorsal column nuclei, located just caudal to the obex. These findings demonstrate that neurons in the dorsal column nuclei express preprocholecystokinin messenger RNA, and show that these neurons provide a peptidergic projection from the dorsal column nuclei to the ventroposterolateral nucleus of the thalamus. These observations suggest that cholecystokinin may be involved in the transmission of somatosensory (tactile) information from the dorsal column nuclei to the thalamus.
The inducible transcription factor c-Jun increases in neurons in response to axotomy by unknown mechanisms, and it has been postulated that c-Jun may regulate genes involved in promoting either degeneration or regeneration of axotomized neurons. In this report, we investigated the effect of daily or twice daily intraventricular administration of the neurotrophins nerve growth factor or neurotrophin-4/5 on the decrease in choline acetyltransferase expression and the increase in c-Jun expression in rat medial septum/diagonal band neurons three, seven and 14 days following unilateral, complete, fornix fimbria lesion. We also examined whether medial septum/diagonal band neurons might die by apoptosis within two weeks of fornix fimbria lesion using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP biotin nick end labelling. Our results show that both nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-4/5 maintain the phenotype of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons following axotomy. Furthermore, using double-labelling immunofluorescence, we found that while c-Jun was expressed in cholinergic neurons in control-treated rats seven days following fornix fimbria lesion, cholinergic neurons rescued by either nerve growth factor or neurotrophin-4/5 in neurotrophin-treated rats failed to express c-Jun. At no time-point (three, seven or 14 days post-axotomy) did any neurons in the medial septum/diagonal band stain positive for terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labelling, suggesting that medial septum/diagonal band neurons do not undergo apoptosis within the first two weeks following axotomy at the time-points observed by us. Therefore, these results show that both nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-4/5 rescue the phenotype of axotomized cholinergic neurons and that these rescued neurons fail to express c-Jun in response to axotomy. In addition, since neither nerve growth factor nor neurotrophin-4/5 induced c-Jun in medial septum/diagonal band cholinergic neurons, it seems unlikely that the neurotrophic effects of nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-4/5 on cholinergic neurons are mediated via c-Jun expression. Furthermore, since axotomy failed to increase terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP biotin nick end labelling in septal neurons, it appears unlikely that c-Jun expression in these axotomized neurons is related to neuronal degeneration via apoptosis.
Mating behaviour in the male hamster requires chemosensory and hormonal cues, and copulation is abolished if either signal is interrupted. In addition, the integration of chemosensory stimuli with steroid signals is essential for mating. In castrated male hamsters, implantation ofa testosterone-filled cannula in the preoptic area stimulates mating behaviour. However, removal of the ipsilateral olfactory bulb prevents steroid facilitation of sexual activity. The present studies determined if the integration of chemosensory and hormonal cues necessary for mating behaviour is distributed within steroid-sensitive nuclei in the brain, or is restricted to the preoptic area. Specifically, the hypothesis was tested that the medial amygdala is capable of odour and hormone integration. Castrated male hamsters received an intracerebral implant of testosterone in the medial amygdala combined with removal of a single olfactory bulb, ipsilateral or contralateral to the implant. Mating behaviour did not increase after implant surgery and bulbectomy in either ipsilateral or contralateral bulbectomized males. In a second study, males were bulbectomized three weeks after implant surgery, to demonstrate the ability of testosterone in the medial amygdala to stimulate male sexual behaviour, and the loss of behaviour following bulbectomy. The results confirm that integration of odour and steroid cues is essential for mating in the male hamster. Moreover, the medial amygdaloid nucleus contributes to chemosensory and hormonal integration. However, compared with steroid stimulation in the preoptic area, the behavioural effects of testosterone in the medial amygdaloid nucleus are more sensitive to manipulations of the olfactory system, suggesting that the amygdala requires bilateral chemosensory input.
The role of serotonin1A and serotonin4 receptors in the modulation of synaptic inhibition in the dentate gyrus of guinea-pig hippocampal slices was studied. The effects of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) on hilar neurons and on inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in granule cells were compared using intracellular recording in the presence of glutamatergic receptor antagonists. On the basis of electrophysiological properties hilar neurons were classified as type I neurons (presumably inhibitory) and type II neurons (presumably excitatory). Serotonin hyperpolarized a proportion of type I hilar neurons (60%) and decreased their input resistance through activation of a K+-conductance. This effect was mediated by serotonin1A receptors since it was mimicked by the selective serotonin1A receptor agonist (+/-)-8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin hydrobromide and blocked by the selective serotonin1A receptor antagonist (+) WAY 100135. In some type I hilar neurons (40%) neither serotonin nor (+/-)-8-hydroxydipropylaminotetralin hydrobromide induced a membrane hyperpolarization. Instead, serotonin induced an excitatory response, depolarizing the cells and blocking the slow afterhyperpolarization. Similar effects were seen in all hilar neurons after blockade of serotonin1A receptors. They were mimicked by the serotonin4 receptor agonist zacopride. Serotonin induced either decreases or increases in the frequency of spontaneous GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in granule cells via activation of serotonin1A and of serotonin4 receptors, respectively. 4-aminopyridine-evoked GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were inhibited by serotonin via activation of serotonin1A receptors. However, after blockade of serotonin1A receptors, serotonin increased the frequency of GABA(B)-inhibitory postsynaptic potentials through the activation of serotonin4 receptors. We conclude that a proportion of inhibitory neurons in the dentate area does not express serotonin1A receptors and is excited by serotonin. Other inhibitory neurons express serotonin1A receptors and are inhibited by serotonin.
Effects of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) were investigated in CA1 pyramidal neurons of rat hippocampal slice cultures using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. In the current-clamp mode, CCK-8 (100 nM) produced slight depolarizaton (2.1 +/- 0.3 mV) and reduced the amplitude of afterhyperpolarization following a train of spikes. CCK-8 (10 nM-1 microM) concentration-dependently reduced the amplitude of afterhyperpolarization. CCK-4, a selective agonist for CCK(B) receptors, also attenuated the amplitude of afterhyperpolarization. CCK-8-induced suppression was completely abolished by (+)L-365,260, a selective CCK(B) receptor antagonist, but not by (-)L-364,718, a selective CCK(A) receptor antagonist. Similarly, CCK-8 reduced the tail currents following a depolarizing pulse. The tail currents were characterized as Ca2+-activated K+ currents. When neurons were held at a holding potential of -40 mV, CCK-8 elicited inward currents with a reduction of membrane conductance. This current had a relatively linear current voltage relationship and was reversed in polarity at membrane potentials close to the K+ equilibrium potential, suggesting that CCK-8 decreases leak K+ currents. Moreover, voltage-activated Ca2+ currents were partially blocked by CCK-8, and this effect was enhanced by intracellular application of GTPgammaS (300 microM) or a protein phosphatase inhibitor, okadaic acid (100 nM), and attenuated by GDPbetaS (300 microM) or a protein kinase inhibitor, staurosporin (400 nM). In acutely-prepared hippocampal slices from neonatal rats, CCK-8 also depolarized CA1 pyramidal neurons and suppressed afterhyperpolarization following a train of action potentials. These results indicate that CCK-8 increases neuronal excitability by suppressing leak K+ currents and Ca2+-activated K+ currents in CA1 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus through activation of CCK(B) receptors.
The effects of pilocarpine- and kainate-induced seizures on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit-1 messenger RNA and [3H]dizocilpine maleate binding were studied in the rat hippocampal formation. Pilocarpine- but not kainate-induced seizures decreased N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit-1 messenger RNA level in dentate gyrus at 24 and 72 h after drug injection. Both convulsants decreased the messenger RNA level in CA1 pyramidal cells at 24 and 72 h, the effects of kainate being more profound. Kainate also decreased the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit-1 messenger RNA level in CA3 region after 24 and 72 h, whereas pilocarpine decreased the messenger RNA level at 72 h only. At 3 h after kainate, but not pilocarpine, an increased binding of [3H]dizocilpine maleate in several apical dendritic fields of pyramidal cells was found. Pilocarpine reduced the [3H]dizocilpine maleate binding in stratum lucidum only at 3 and 24 h after the drug injection. Pilocarpine but not kainate induced prolonged decrease in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit-1 gene expression in dentate gyrus. However, at the latest time measured, kainate had the stronger effect in decreasing both messenger RNA N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit-1 and [3H]dizocilpine maleate binding in CA1 and CA3 hippocampal pyramidal cells. The latter changes corresponded, however, to neuronal loss and may reflect higher neurotoxic potency of kainate. These data point to some differences in hippocampal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor regulation in pilocarpine and kainate models of limbic seizures. Moreover, our results suggest that the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit-1 messenger RNA level is more susceptible to limbic seizures than is [3H]dizocilpine maleate binding in the rat hippocampal formation.
Changes in dopamine receptor subtype binding in different brain regions were examined after 28 days treatment of rats with haloperidol, raclopride, clozapine or SCH23390 using in vitro receptor autoradiography. [3H]7-hydroxy-N,N-di-n-propyl-2-aminotetralin binding to dopamine D3 receptors was not changed in any brain region by any of the drug treatments. [3H]SCH23390 was only increased by chronic SCH23390 treatment. Haloperidol significantly increased [3H]nemonapride and [3H]spiperone binding to dopamine D2-like receptors in the caudate putamen. In contrast, haloperidol caused a small, significant increase in [3H]raclopride binding in the lateral caudate putamen only. Raclopride also elevated, but to a lesser extent [3H]nemonapride and [3H]spiperone binding in caudate putamen, whereas it did not affect [3H]raclopride binding. Clozapine did not significantly change D2-like striatal binding of [3H]nemonaipride, [3H]spiperone or [3H]raclopride. The differences in radioligand binding suggest that [3H]nemonapride and [3H]spiperone may be binding to additional subsets of dopamine D2-like receptors (including D4-like receptors) that are not recognized by [3H]raclopride, which has high affinity for D2 and D3 receptors only. Quantification of [3H]nemonapride or [3H]spiperone binding in the presence of 300 nM raclopride (to block D2 and D3 receptors) revealed that haloperidol, raclopride and clozapine up-regulated D4-like receptors in the caudate putamen using either radioligand. These results suggest that D4-like receptors may be a common site of action of both typical and atypical antipsychotics.
DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, apparent molecular weight of 32,000) is part of the D1 dopamine receptor signal transduction cascade. Both the D1 receptor and DARPP-32 are found in the caudate putamen, but it is not known if they co-localize in the medium-sized spiny neurons. In the present study, double-labelling immunocytochemistry was used to simultaneously localize the D1 receptor and DARPP-32 in the rat caudate-putamen. The neuropil was heavily and uniformly immunoreactive for both the D1 receptor and DARPP-32. All cell bodies immunopositive for the D1 receptor were immunopositive for DARPP-32. The D1 receptor was not detectable, however, in nearly half of the DARPP-32-containing cell bodies. DARPP-32 is present in striatopallidal and striatonigral projections. The D1 receptor co-localized with DARPP-32 in fibres of the entopeduncular nucleus and the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra. In the globus pallidus, however, D1 receptor immunoreactivity was barely detectable, while DARPP-32 immunolabelling of axons and axon terminals was intense. These data suggest that the striatal somata containing both the D1 receptor and DARPP-32 project to the entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra, whereas somata containing only DARPP-32 immunoreactivity project to the globus pallidus. Thus, the differences in expression of the D1 receptor and of DARPP-32 within striatal cell bodies are likely reflected in their projections. The co-localization of the D1 receptor and DARPP-32 is consistent with the known regulation of DARPP-32 phosphorylation by D1 receptor activation. The demonstration of a large population of striatal neurons that contain DARPP-32 but apparently do not contain D1 receptors substantiates the premise that these cells have an alternative signal transduction pathway. Subsequent studies are needed to search for a signal transduction pathway for these neurons analogous to the dopamine D1 receptor pathway.
Endogenous excitotoxins have been implicated in the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra compacta of patients with Parkinson's disease. One such agent quinolinic acid is an endogenous excitatory amino acid receptor agonist. This study examined whether an increased level of endogenous kynurenic acid, an excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist, can protect nigrostriatal dopamine neurons against quinolinic acid-induced excitotoxic damage. Nigral infusion of quinolinic acid (60 nmoles) or N-methyl-D- aspartate (15 nmoles) produced a significant depletion in striatal tyrosine hydroxylase activity, a biochemical marker for dopaminergic neurons. Three hours following the intraventricular infusion of nicotinylalanine (5.6 nmoles), an agent that inhibits kynureninase and kynurenine hydroxylase activity, when combined with kynurenine (450 mg/kg i.p.), the precursor of kynurenic acid, and probenecid (200 mg/kg i.p.), an inhibitor of organic acid transport, the kynurenic acid in the whole brain and substantia nigra was increased 3.3-fold and 1.5-fold respectively when compared to rats that received saline, probenecid and kynurenine. This elevation in endogenous kynurenic acid prevented the quinolinic acid-induced reduction in striatal tyrosine hydroxylase. However, 9 h following the administration of nicotinylalanine with kynurenine and probenecid, a time when whole brain kynurenic acid levels had decreased 12-fold, quinolinic acid injections produced a significant depletion in striatal tyrosine hydroxylase. Intranigral infusion of quinolinic acid in rats that received saline with kynurenine and probenecid resulted in a significant depletion of ipsilateral striatal tyrosine hydroxylase. Administration of nicotinylalanine in combination with kynurenine and probenecid also blocked N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced depletion of tyrosine hydroxylase. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemical assessment of the substantia nigra confirmed quinolinic acid-induced neuronal cell loss and the ability of nicotinylalanine in combination with kynurenine and probenecid to protect neurons from quinolinic acid-induced toxicity. The present study demonstrates that increases in endogenous kynurenic acid can prevent the loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons resulting from a focal infusion of quinolinic acid or N-methyl-D-aspartate. The strategy of neuronal protection by increasing the brain kynurenic acid may be useful in retarding cell loss in Parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases where excitotoxic mechanisms have been implicated.
Cells of the telencephalon are generated in specific proliferative zones from which neuronal and glial precursors migrate to their destinations. Recent evidence indicates that some precursors do not turn into differentiated cells but keep their ability to proliferate. Here, we report that neurons can originate in primary cultures of astroglial cells prepared from neocortex of newborn rats. The first neuronal cells appeared shortly before confluence, when a glial monolayer was being formed. After confluence, these still undifferentiated cells increased in number. Later, they became immunohistochemically positive for the neuron-specific marker microtubule-associated protein 2a,b. They also contained neurofilament-L protein as well as the specific messenger RNA coding for neurofilament-H. The observation that they took up bromo-deoxyuridine indicated that they synthesized DNA, i.e. they proliferated. When Dulbecco's modified essential medium was substituted with fetal calf serum, the appearance of neurons depended on the seeding density of the dispersed cells. This was no longer the case, when the cultures were maintained in Dulbecco's modified essential medium/F12 medium to which transferrin, insulin and selenium chloride had been added. It is concluded that neuronal precursors can survive in primary astroglial cultures. After confluence of the astroglial cells the precursors proliferate if appropriate conditions are present. Our observation provides a new model for the investigation of cultured neurons and neuronal-glial interactions.
Previous studies have shown that the striatum provides synaptic inputs to the globus pallidus and entopeduncular nucleus in which GABA is co-localized with the peptides enkephalin and substance P. The aim of this study in the rat was to determine whether the striatal projections also make synaptic contact with the cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis, which lie near to the pallidal areas in the rat brain. The anterograde tracer biocytin was injected into different parts of the striatum, and brain sections were stained for biocytin and choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity by using a dual colour method. Terminals labelled with biocytin by anterograde transport and which made synaptic contact with choline acetyltransferase-positive soma and dendrites were identified by light-electron microscopic correlation methods. In the cases where the biocytin injections had been made in the dorsal or lateral striatum, biocytin-labelled terminals made synaptic contact with cholinergic cells in the region between the main termination zones in the globus pallidus and the entopeduncular nucleus. In the cases where the injections had been made in the ventromedial and posterior striatum, there was greater overlap between choline acetyltransferase-positive structures and biocytin-labelled terminals in the main termination zones in the globus pallidus or entopeduncular nucleus, but relatively few of these terminals made synaptic contacts on to the cholinergic neurons. The results therefore indicate that the cholinergic nucleus basalis cells receive a relatively sparse synaptic input from all parts of the striatum. It has recently been shown that the cholinergic cells of the nucleus basalis selectively express high levels of substance P and opioid receptor messenger RNAs, while the non-cholinergic pallidal cells have much higher levels of GABA(A) receptor subunit messenger RNAs. It is concluded that the cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis in the rat may be selectively responsive to the peptidergic components of the striatal outputs, and that they are most likely to be influenced by both the limbic and sensorimotor parts of the striatum.
Postganglionic sympathetic neurons possess at least two excitatory receptors for nucleotides: P2X-purinoceptors and separate receptors for uracil nucleotides. In cultured neurons from rat superior cervical ganglia (SCG), both receptors, when activated, induce release of noradrenaline. Here we describe marked differences between the responses of cultured neurons from rat thoracolumbal paravertebral ganglia to ATP and UDP. ATP elicited release of previously taken up [3H]noradrenaline, induced an inward current, and increased the intra-axonal free calcium level, over the same range of micromolar concentrations. UDP was more potent than ATP in releasing [3H]noradrenaline but induced an inward current only at a concentration of 1 mM and caused much smaller increases in intraaxonal free calcium. The mechanism of action of ATP presumably consists of P2X-purinoceptor activation followed by depolarization, calcium entry through voltage-sensitive channels and exocytosis. The mode of action of UDP is different. It probably activates a G-protein-coupled pyrimidinoceptor. The pyrimidinoceptor then possibly mediates mobilization of intracellular calcium close to the sites of transmitter release and in addition an increase in the calcium sensitivity of the exocytotic apparatus.
Glutamate transporters play a pivotal role in terminating glutamatergic transmission by eliminating glutamate from the synaptic cleft. Four different glutamate transporter cDNAs have been isolated thus far, and their tissue distribution has been investigated using northern blot and immunohistochemical analysis. We raised site-directed antisera against a synthetic oligopeptide corresponding to the C-terminal of EAAT4, a recently cloned human glutamate transporter, and investigated the distribution of EAAT4 in rat cerebellum. Western blot analysis demonstrated that the affinity-purified antiserum SAE4 recognized specifically a single band (about 62 kDa) in the rat cerebellum, cerebrum and spinal cord. The SAE4-immunoreactivity was localized predominantly in the dendritic spines and distal dendrites of Purkinje cells. The intensity of the immunoreactivity was uneven among Purkinje cells, forming parasagittal compartments. Since EAAT4 also has the properties of a glutamate-gated chloride channel, it should be able to modulate the transmission at the parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses.
Stimulation of the nasal passages of muskrats with either ammonia vapours or retrogradely-flowing water produced cardiorespiratory responses (an immediate 62% decrease in heart rate, 29% increase in mean arterial blood pressure, and sustained expiratory apnoea). We used the immunohistological detection of Fos, the protein product of the c-fos gene, as a marker of neuronal activation to help elucidate the brainstem circuitry of this cardiorespiratory response. After repeated ammonia stimulation of the nasal passages, increased Fos expression was detected within the spinal trigeminal nucleus (ventral laminae I and II of the medullary dorsal horn, ventral paratrigeminal nucleus, and spinal trigeminal nucleus interpolaris), an area just ventromedial to the medullary dorsal horn, the caudal dorsal reticular formation and the area of the A5 catecholamine group compared to control animals. Repeated water stimulation of the nasal passages produced increased Fos expression only in the A5 catecholamine group. There was an increase in the number of Fos-positive cells in the ammonia group in the ventral laminae I and II of the medullary dorsal horn and the ventral paratrigeminal nuclei compared with the water group. We conclude that ammonia stimulation of the nasal passages produces a different pattern of neuronal activation within the brainstem compared with water stimulation. We also conclude that Fos immunohistochemistry is a good technique to determine functional afferent somatotopy, but that immunohistochemical detection of Fos is not a good technique to identify the medullary neurons responsible for the efferent aspects of an intermittently produced cardiorespiratory reflex.
Dopamine neuroblastoma (SH-SY5Y) cells exhibit a high affinity of adhesion for primary astroglial cells. The homophilic aggregation of SH-SY5Y cells is greatly reduced and the neuroprocesses are enhanced when co-cultured with the astrocytes. However, such affinity was not detected in the mouse when these cells were co-cultured with fibroblast and endothelial cells. SH-SY5Y cells in monoculture are very sensitive towards the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine, but this sensitivity is substantially reduced in co-culture with astrocytes. The acquired cytoprotection of the neuroblastoma cells in co-culture against 6-hydroxydopamine is time dependent following adhesion with the astrocytes. There is no evidence to indicate that the increase in survival of the SH-SY5Y cells against 6-hydroxydopamine is due to inactivation of 6-hydroxydopamine induced by the extracellular factors secreted from the astrocytes, neither is there any indication suggesting the removal of 6-hydroxydopamine by an astrocyte uptake mechanism. The release of trophic factors by the astrocytes does not seem to play a role in the protection of the neuroblastoma cells against 6-hydroxydopamine. The neuroblastoma cells became susceptible to 6-hydroxydopamine in the astrocyte co-cultures when they were physically separated from the astroglial cells by trans-well inserts. Neither non-selective adhesions, such as adhesion with denatured astrocytes or with other types of cells (i.e. endothelial or fibroblast cells), nor adhesion enhanced by chemical agents can increase the cytoprotection of SH-SY5Y against 6-hydroxydopamine. These results suggest that the increase in survival of neuroblastoma cells against 6-hydroxydopamine in the astrocyte co-cultures is probably a result of specific cell-cell adhesion and the subsequent interactions.
It has been suggested that acetylcholine receptors newly inserted into adult innervated endplates have a rapid degradation rate, but are normally converted to a stable, slowly degrading form in a nerve-dependent fashion. Denervation therefore should eliminate conversion and cause pre-existing unconverted receptors to continue degrading rapidly. We tested this model of nerve-dependent conversion in mouse sternomastoid muscle, using quantitative electron microscopic autoradiography in order to specifically examine degradation of receptors at identified endplate membrane. Prior to denervation, we labelled the receptors with sequential alpha-bungarotoxin exposures, using conditions designed to maximize the predicted effect of denervation. However, we observed no difference in the rate of receptor degradation at innervated and denervated endplates up to seven days after denervation (at which time accelerated degradation of pre-existing stabilized receptors is known to begin in this muscle). The regulation of endplate acetylcholine receptor metabolic turnover is a complex and still largely undefined issue, related to many factors such as subunit composition, cytoskeleton and basement membrane composition, muscle activity, and neural influences. In particular, the nerve's influence on the normal stabilization of receptors at innervated adult endplates has been controversial. Our data indicate that slow degradation is probably an inherent property of newly inserted junctional receptors, and argue against nerve-dependent conversion and stabilization. Based on the present data, however, we cannot rule out the presence of a small nerve-independent subpopulation that degrades rapidly. The molecular mechanisms involved in establishing and maintaining a stable population of adult endplate acetylcholine receptors remain to be established.
Brevetoxin-3 at nanomolar concentrations markedly enhanced spontaneous quantal transmitter release from neuromuscular junctions equilibrated in a Ca2+-free EGTA medium. After about 3 h, the sustained increase in miniature endplate potential frequency led to an exhaustion of transmitter release. This increase still occurred after loading the nerve terminals with the Ca2+ chelator bis-(aminophenoxy)ethanetetra-acetate or after pretreatment with various pharmacological agents known to prevent Ca2+ release from intracellular pools, but was completely prevented by the Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin. Brevetoxin-3 also increased miniature endplate potential frequency from junctions treated with botulinum type-A toxin, but to a smaller extent than at normal junctions. At normal junctions, brevetoxin-3 exposure for 2 h increased the three-dimensional projected area of living motor nerve terminals in situ by about 74% while at botulinum type-A poisoned junctions a similar toxin exposure caused only a 29% increase. Tetrodotoxin prevented such effects, indicating that they are related to both Na+ entry into the terminals and increased quantal transmitter release. Ultrastructural examination of nerve terminals from junctions exposed for 3 h to brevetoxin-3 revealed profound depletions of clear and large dense core synaptic vesicles and an increase in coated vesicles and axolemma infoldings. These results indicate that brevetoxin-3 impairs the recycling of clear synaptic vesicles and are consistent with our immunofluorescent observations showing that synaptophysin epitopes can be revealed without nerve terminal permeabilization. In contrast, no such changes were detected in nerve terminals poisoned with botulinum type-A toxin which, after 3 h exposure to brevetoxin-3, retained their synaptic vesicles and had a normal appearance. We conclude that tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ entry into motor nerve terminals induced by brevetoxin-3 triggers external Ca2+-independent asynchronous quantal transmitter release, blocks synaptic vesicle recycling and induces swelling of the terminals. We suggest that an excess of cytoplasmic Na+ per se can activate the asynchronous neurotransmitter release process.
The effect of chronic supraphysiological doses of anabolic-androgenic steroids, such as those illegally used by recreational, amateur and professional athletes to increase muscle mass and strength, on motoneurons has not been established. The choline acetyltransferase activity levels of perineal muscles in the male rat are modulated by plasma testosterone levels. These muscles are innervated by the sexually dimorphic motoneurons of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus. Since the primary source of choline acetyltransferase in muscle is motoneuronal, testosterone may modulate perineal muscle choline acetyltransferase activity by regulating choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA levels in motoneurons. The purpose of this study was to determine if choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA levels in cervical and lumbar spinal motoneurons are affected by chronic (four weeks) changes of plasma testosterone levels in the adult male rat. Using in situ hybridization, choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA levels were analysed in four motor columns: the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus, the retrodorsal lateral nucleus of the lumbar spinal cord, and the lateral motor columns of the cervical and lumbar spinal cords. Chronic exposure to supraphysiological levels of testosterone (five- to ten-times physiologic levels) significantly increased choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA in all four motor columns. Subsequent to castration, choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA levels decreased in motoneurons of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus and the retrodorsal lateral nucleus. This observation suggests that the decrease in choline acetyltransferase activity levels of muscles innervated by spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus motoneurons may be due to changes in choline acetyltransferase protein levels. Indeed, testosterone replacement therapy of castrated males prevented the decline of choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA levels in motoneurons. The results of this study demonstrate that anabolic-androgenic steroids can affect the levels of specific messenger RNAs in motoneuron populations throughout the spinal cord suggesting that motoneuronal characteristics are modulated by circulating anabolic-androgenic steroid levels regardless of the purported &quot;androgen sensitivity&quot; of the specific neuromuscular system.
Spinal cord projections from transected sciatic nerves treated with different neurotrophins were investigated in the adult rat following injections of choleragenoid into the proximal stump of the injured nerve. Transganglionically transported choleragenoid labelled primary afferent fibres in all spinal cord dorsal horn laminae except the outer part of lamina II (II(o)), which is almost devoid of labelling. Transection of the sciatic nerve, however, resulted in intense transganglionic choleragenoid labelling in lamina II(o) and in lamina I. In this study, the sciatic nerve was transected bilaterally and 4erve growth factor (6 or 24 microg), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (20 microg), neurotrophin-3 (27 microg) or cytochrome C (8 microg; control substance) was applied unilaterally during postoperative survival times of eight, 16 and 32 days. The animals received bilateral injections of choleragenoid into the injured nerve two days before they were killed. The effect of the axotomy and neurotrophin treatment was evaluated by analysing the extent of choleragenoid and substance P immunoreactivity in the somatotopically appropriate spinal cord dorsal horn regions. At eight days' postoperative survival, laminae I and II(o) on the transected, non-treated side showed much more intense choleragenoid-like immunoreactivity compared to the contralateral transected, nerve growth factor-treated (6 and 24 microg) side. A similar situation was also found in cases treated with the higher dose (24 microg) at 16 days but to a lesser degree when the lower (6 microg) dose was used. After 32 days' survival, there was no detectable side difference in the choleragenoid labelling pattern. At 16 days' survival, the mean area of choleragenoid-positive ganglion cell body profiles in the L5 dorsal root ganglion of the transected, non-treated side was significantly smaller than the mean area of the transected, nerve growth factor-treated (24 microg) neurons. An axotomy-induced depletion of substance P-like immunoreactivity was seen from eight days' survival and onwards, whereas on the nerve growth factor-treated side a clearcut substance P depletion was not observed until 32 days. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 and cytochrome C had no detectable effects on the distribution of choleragenoid labelling or substance P-like immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn following sciatic nerve transection. In conclusion, peripheral nerve injury-induced expansion of primary afferent choleragenoid labelling in the spinal cord dorsal horn is counteracted by treating the axotomized nerve with nerve growth factor.
Chronic exposure of brain neurons to nerve growth factor in vitro and in vivo results in increased levels of the nerve growth factor receptor TrkA. In contrast, in the present study, we have found that chronic exposure of rat embryonic cortical neurons to brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) leads to a pronounced reduction of the levels of protein and messenger RNA for the full-length but not the truncated BDNF receptor TrkB. Similar effects were observed with the other TrkB ligands neurotrophin-3 and neurotrophin-4/5. After pretreatment with BDNF, neurotrophin-3 or neurotrophin-4/5, subsequent tyrosine phosphorylation responses of the remaining Trks to the same factors were greatly reduced. Three days exposure of rat embryonic cortical neurons to BDNF induced an absolute refractory period of several hours, with no subsequent response to the same factor. Similar but less pronounced refractory effects were observed with neurotrophin-3 and neurotrophin-4/5. Our results suggest a negative regulatory effect of BDNF and other TrkB ligands on TrkB receptors. Down-regulation of the TrkB response by its ligands might play a role in the control of BDNF action during early development, when BDNF levels significantly increase. Our findings are also of potential clinical relevance, since the possibility of ligand-induced down-regulation of the receptor response needs to be addressed when considering BDNF or other neurotrophins for the therapy of neurodegeneration.
Chronic inflammatory conditions produce a state of hyperalgesia which is evident from a few hours to days after administration of an inflammatory stimulus. The molecular mechanisms involved in the initiation of hyperalgesia are not well understood and in this study we have investigated the role of prostaglandins in this process in the rat. Unilateral intraplantar injection of Freund's complete adjuvant produces an immediate localized swelling (oedema) with the development of altered pain responses in the ipsilateral paw such as a reduced threshold to noxious stimuli (hyperalgesia) and lowered thresholds such that normally innocuous stimuli produce a pain response (allodynia). We have monitored levels of cyclooxygenase messenger RNA and prostaglandins in lumbar spinal cord in parallel with these behavioural responses (oedema, hyperalgesia and allodynia) and identified a marked increase in cyclooxygenase-2 messenger RNA (3-fold), maximal at 2-4 h after Freund's complete adjuvant, followed by a significant increase in 6-keto prostaglandin F1alpha and prostaglandin E2 which is maximal by 8 h. Pretreatment of animals with the unselective cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin attenuated oedema (approximately 40%) and allodynia (80-100%), but had no effect on the development of mechanical hyperalgesia. Pretreatment with the cyclooxygenase-2 selective inhibitors DuP 697, flosulide and SC58125 also attenuated allodynia (by 80-100%) but had no effect on the development of oedema or mechanical hyperalgesia. The marked increase in cyclooxygenase-2 messenger RNA in the lumbar spinal cord following intraplantar Freund's complete adjuvant suggests that the cyclooxygenase enzyme and its product may have a role in the adaptive response that occurs in the lumbar spinal cord during a peripheral inflammatory reaction. Pharmacological analysis reveals that prostaglandins are directly involved in the development of allodynia. However, these studies show that the development of mechanical hyperalgesia does not require the production of prostaglandins indicating that more than one pathway mediates the altered pain responses associated with a peripheral inflammatory lesion.
Spinal cord injury disrupts control of sympathetic preganglionic neurons because bulbospinal input has been lost and the remaining regulation is accomplished by spinal circuits consisting of dorsal root afferent and spinal neurons. Moreover, an initial retraction and regrowth of dendrites of preganglionic neurons in response to deafferentation creates the potential for remodelling of spinal circuits that control them. Although catecholamines and neuropeptide Y are found in descending inputs to the preganglionic neurons, their presence in spinal circuits has not been established. Spinal circuits controlling preganglionic neurons contain substance P but participation of these peptidergic neurons in remodelling responses has not been examined. Therefore, we compared immunoreactivity for the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme dopamine beta-hydroxylase, for neuropeptide Y and for substance P in the intermediate gray matter of the spinal cord in control rats and in rats seven or fourteen days after transection at the fourth thoracic cord segment. Sympathetic preganglionic neurons were retrogradely labelled by intraperitoneal injection of the tracer FluoroGold. These experiments yielded three original findings. 1) At one and two weeks after cord transection, fibres and terminals immunoreactive for dopamine beta-hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y were consistently found in the intermediolateral cell column in segments caudal to the transection. The area of fibres and terminals containing these immunoreactivities was markedly reduced compared to control rats or to segments rostral to the transection in the spinal rats. 2) Immunoreactivity for substance P was increased after cord transection and the distribution of fibres immunoreactive for this peptide in segments caudal to the transection extended more widely through the intermediate gray matter. These reactions demonstrated a plastic reaction to cord transection by spinal neurons expressing substance P. 3) Dopamine beta-hydroxylase expression was up-regulated in somata within the intermediate gray matter of spinal segments caudal to the transection. The numbers of somata immunoreactive for this enzyme increased six-fold by 14 days after cord transection, compared to the few somata counted in control rats. In conclusion, the presence of a catecholamine synthesizing enzyme and neuropeptides in fibres surrounding sympathetic preganglionic neurons caudal to a cord transection suggests a source of catecholamines and these peptides within spinal circuits in the chronic spinal rat. The presence of dopamine beta-hydroxylase in a markedly greater number of neuronal somata after cord transection reflects significant up-regulation of gene expression and may indicate a switch by these neurons to an adrenergic phenotype, revealing a plastic response to injury within the spinal cord.
The synaptic events underlying the excitation of neurons in the rat's dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus were studied by whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in a brain slice preparation of the auditory midbrain. Both current-clamp and voltage-clamp data were obtained with the brain slice submerged in artificial cerebrospinal fluid. The rats were between 21 and 35 days of age at the time the recordings were made. Synaptic responses were evoked by a bipolar stimulating electrode placed on the lateral lemniscus just ventral to the dorsal nucleus. To eliminate glycinergic inhibitory responses, all physiological data were gathered with 0.5 microM strychnine added to the saline bath. Under current-clamp conditions, excitatory postsynaptic potentials could be subdivided into early and late components. The early component produced a single, highly reliable, short-latency spike and the later component produced a more variable, long-latency spike or train of spikes. The non-N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, completely blocked the early excitatory postsynaptic potential and its associated action potential. The N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, blocked the later excitatory postsynaptic potential and its action potentials. Typically, both early and late excitatory postsynaptic potentials could be recorded from the same cell, but the early excitatory postsynaptic potential was evoked at lower stimulus levels and had a larger amplitude than the later excitatory postsynaptic potential. Under voltage-clamp conditions, dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus neurons responded to stimulation of the lateral lemniscus with excitatory postsynaptic currents. Outward excitatory postsynaptic currents were recorded with holding potentials that depolarized the cell membrane and inward currents were seen when the cell was hyperpolarized. The current-voltage (I-V) relation of the early peak portion of the excitatory postsynaptic current was nearly linear, whereas the I-V relation of the later excitatory postsynaptic current (12 ms after the peak) was non-linear over the range between -50 and - 100 mV. The outward excitatory postsynaptic current consisted of an early current that was selectively blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and a later current that was blocked by D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. In artificial cerebrospinal fluid with normal concentrations of Mg2+, the inward excitatory postsynaptic current was blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, but was not affected by D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. In Mg2+-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid. however, the early component of the inward excitatory postsynaptic current was selectively blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and a later component was blocked by D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. The results indicate that both N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated synaptic responses are present in dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus neurons of rats at 21-35 days of age. The N-methyl-D-aspartate component had a longer time-course and a higher threshold than the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate component, and was subject to a voltage-dependent Mg2+ block when the cell's membrane was hyperpolarized. The long-duration N-methyl-D-aspartate component is probably responsible for the prolonged inhibitory effect of dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus neurons on physiological responses in the rat's inferior colliculus.
The regulation by neuropeptide Y of alpha2-adrenoceptors in the nucleus tractus solitarii was evaluated in the adult normotensive Wistar Kyoto rat and the adult spontaneously hypertensive rat. The microinjection of a submaximal dose of l-noradrenaline (800 pmol in 50 nl) alone into the nucleus tractus solitarii produced a significant reduction in the mean arterial blood pressure in either strain. The threshold dose (1 pmol in 50 nl) of neuropeptide Y(1-36) for the vasodepressor response in the Wistar Kyoto rat was five times higher than that (0.2 pmol in 50 nl) in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. Furthermore, neuropeptide Y(1-36) at 0.2 pmol in 50 nl could significantly counteract the vasodepressor response to l-noradrenaline (800 pmol in 50 nl) in the spontaneously hypertensive rat, but not in the Wistar Kyoto rat, in which 1 pmol in 50 nl of neuropeptide Y(1-36) must be employed to counteract the vasodepressor response to l-noradrenaline (800 pmol in 50 nl), although the vasodepressor responses are of a similar magnitude. The in situ hybridization and quantitative receptor autoradiographical experiments showed that the alpha2A-adrenoceptor messenger RNA levels and the B(max) value of the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist [3H]p-aminoclonidine binding sites measured in the nucleus tractus solitarii of the spontaneously hypertensive rat were substantially lower than those in the Wistar Kyoto rat. The quantitative receptor autoradiographical results were consistent with the cardiovascular results and showed that in the spontaneously hypertensive rat, neuropeptide Y(1-36) at 1 nM led to a significant increase in the K(d) value of [3H]p-aminoclonidine binding sites. In the Wistar Kyoto rat, neuropeptide Y(1-36) produced this effect only at 10 nM. The present study provides evidence for an increase of the potency of neuropeptide Y(1-36) to antagonistically modulate alpha2-adrenoceptors in the nucleus tractus solitarii of the spontaneously hypertensive rat. This enhanced antagonistic action may partly be related to a reduction in the number of alpha2A-adrenoceptors in the nucleus tractus solitarii of the spontaneously hypertensive rat, since a decrease has been observed in the alpha2A-adrenoceptor messenger RNA levels and the alpha2-adrenoceptor binding sites in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. This increased potency of neuropeptide Y(1-36) to antagonize alpha2-adrenoceptor function in the nucleus tractus solitarii of the spontaneously hypertensive rat may contribute to the development of high blood pressure in this hypertensive strain.
GABA, glutamate, and glycine release in the locus coeruleus were measured as a function of sleep/wake state in the freely-behaving cat using the microdialysis technique. GABA release was found to increase during rapid-eye-movement sleep as compared to waking values. GABA release during slow-wave sleep was intermediate between that of waking states and rapid-eye-movement sleep. The concentration of glutamate and glycine in microdialysis samples was unchanged across sleep and wake states. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that GABAergic inhibition is responsible for the cessation of discharge in locus coeruleus neurons during REM sleep. The data suggest that a population of GABAergic neurons innervating the locus coeruleus are selectively active during rapid-eye-movement sleep.
We have previously defined three types of tegmental pedunculopontine nuclei neurons based on their electrophysiological characteristics: Type I neurons characterized by low-threshold Ca2+ spikes, Type II neurons which displayed a transient outward current (A-current), and Type III neurons having neither low-threshold spikes nor A-current [Kang Y. and Kitai S. T. (1990) Brain Res. 535, 79-95]. In this report, ionic mechanisms underlying repetitive firing of Type I (n=15) and Type II (n=69) neurons were studied in in vitro slice preparations. Type I neurons did not fire rhythmically but their spontaneous firing frequency ranged from 0 to 19.5 spikes/s (mean 9.7 spikes/s). The spontaneous firing of Type II neurons was rhythmic, with a mean frequency of 9.6 spikes/s (range 3.5-16.0 spikes/s). Choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry combined with biocytin labeling indicated that none of the Type I neurons were immunopositive to choline acetyltransferase, while 60% (42 of 69) of Type II neurons were immunopositive. There was no apparent difference in the electrophysiological membrane properties of immunopositive and immunonegative Type II neurons. At membrane potentials subthreshold for Na+ spikes (-50 mV), spontaneous membrane oscillations (11.6 Hz) were observed: these underlie the spontaneous repetitive firing of Type I neurons. The subthreshold membrane oscillation was tetrodotoxin sensitive but was not affected by Ca2+-free medium. A similar tetrodotoxin-sensitive subthreshold membrane oscillation (10.5 Hz) was also observed in Type II neurons. However, in Type II neurons a membrane oscillation was also observed at higher membrane potentials (-50 mV). This high-threshold oscillation was insensitive to tetrodotoxin and Na+-free medium, but was eliminated in Ca2+-free conditions. The amplitude and frequency of the high-threshold oscillation was increased upon membrane depolarization. At the most prominent oscillatory level (around -40 mV), the high-threshold oscillation had a mean frequency of 8.8 Hz. The high-threshold Ca2+ spike was triggered from the peak potential (-35 to -30mV) of the high-threshold oscillation. Application of tetraethylammonium chloride (&lt; 5 mM) increased the amplitude of the high-threshold oscillation, while nifedipine greatly attenuated the high-threshold oscillation without changing the shape of the high-threshold Ca2+ spike. Application of Cd2+ eliminated both the high-threshold oscillation and the high-threshold Ca2+ spike, and omega-conotoxin reduced the size of the high-threshold Ca2+ spike without affecting the frequency of the high-threshold oscillation. Nickel did not have any effect on either the high-threshold oscillation or the high-threshold Ca2+ spike. These data suggest an involvement of N- and L-type Ca2+ channels in the generation of the high-threshold oscillation and the high-threshold Ca2+ spike, respectively. The results indicate that a persistent Na+ conductance plays a crucial role in the subthreshold membrane oscillation, which underlies spontaneous repetitive firing in Type I neurons. On the other hand, in addition to a persistent Na+ conductance for subthreshold membrane oscillation, a voltage-dependent Ca2+ conductance with Ca2+-dependent K+ conductance (for the high-threshold oscillation) may be responsible for rhythmic firing of Type II neurons.
Primary neuron cultures were made separately from the substantia nigra pars compacta and the substantia nigra pars reticulata of neonatal rats. Using the whole-cell patch-clamp, we tested for the presence of dopamine and GABA receptor subtypes by applying dopamine receptor agonists [the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole and the D1 receptor agonist R(+)-SKF-38393] and GABA receptor agonists (GABA and baclofen). The D2 agonists and the GABA(B) agonist increased an inward rectifier K+ conductance, while the D1 agonist decreased this K+ conductance. Application of GABA increased membrane conductance, probably by increasing Cl- permeability through GABA(A) receptors. Following the physiological tests, the same neuron was examined by double immunocytochemical labeling for antibody to tyrosine hydroxylase and antibody to GABA. Neurons which responded to the D2 agonist were dopaminergic neurons, while neurons which did not respond to D2 agonist were mostly GABAergic or non-dopaminergic/non-GABAergic. Neurons which responded to the D1 agonist were non-dopaminergic/non-GABAergic. GABA(A) receptors were present in all types of neurons, while GABA(B) receptors were located on some dopaminergic neurons and some GABAergic neurons. These results largely agree with the published data on in vivo or brain slice preparations, indicating that these neurons of neonatal rat brains, after being dissociated, produce the same transmitters and the same receptors in culture as those in vivo.
The effects of tachykinin receptor agonists and antagonists were investigated using intra- and extracellular recordings on spontaneously firing nigral neurons in guinea-pig brain slices. In 70 of 76 electrophysiologically identified dopaminergic neurons, a concentration-dependent increase in firing rate was induced by the selective neurokinin-3 tachykinin agonist senktide and by the natural tachykinin agonists neurokinin B and substance P, with EC50 values of 14.7, 31.2 and 12200 nM respectively. These responses were inhibited in a concentration- and time-dependent manner by the selective non-peptide neurokinin-3 receptor antagonist SR 142801 (1-100 nM; n=23), but neither by its S-enantiomer SR 142806 (100 nM; n=4) nor by selective antagonists of neurokinin-1 (SR 140333) or neurokinin-2 (SR 48968) receptors (both at 100 nM; n=3). The selective neurokinin-1 agonist [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P (30-100 nM; n=23) and the selective neurokinin-2 agonist [Nle10]neurokinin A(4-10)(30-100 nM; n=13) were without any effect on dopaminergic cells. In 13 of 21 electrophysiologically identified, presumably GABAergic neurons located in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra, excitatory responses were evoked concentration dependently by substance P and [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P, with EC50 values of 18.6 and 41.9 nM respectively. These responses were inhibited by SR 140333 (100 nM; n=3), but neither by its R-enantiomer SR 140603 nor by SR 142801 (both at 100 nM; n=3). Senktide and [Nle10]neurokinin A(4-10) (both at 30-100 nM; n=10) were without effect on these presumed GABAergic neurons. A small population (12%) of pars compacta neurons was insensitive to any of the three selective tachykinin agonists. In the nigral pars reticulata, 12 neurons were recorded which had an electrophysiological profile similar to that of presumed GABAergic neurons in the pars compacta. Of these 12 cells, seven did not respond to any of the selective tachykinin agonists tested, while five were excited by senktide in a concentration-dependent manner (EC50=98.5 nM). Although this value was significantly higher than that found for dopaminergic neurons in the pars compacta, senktide-evoked responses were inhibited by SR 142801 (100 nM; n=3). We conclude that, in the guinea-pig substantia nigra, tachykinins evoke excitatory responses in both dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic neurons; however, the sensitivity to tachykinin agonists (neurokinin-1 versus neurokinin-3) depends on both neuronal type and localization.
The electrophysiological properties, the response to cholinergic agonists and the morphological characteristics of neurons of the basolateral complex were investigated in rat amygdala slices. We have defined three types of cells according to the morphological characteristics and the response to depolarizing pulses. Sixty-six of the recorded cells (71%) responded with two to three action potentials, the second onwards having less amplitude and longer duration (burst). In a second group, consisting of 21 cells (22%), the response to depolarization was a train of spikes, all with the same amplitude (multiple spike). Finally, seven neurons (7%) showed a single action potential (single spike). Burst response and multiple-spike neurons respond to the cholinergic agonist carbachol (10-20 microM) with a depolarization that usually attained the level of firing. This effect was accompanied by decreased or unchanged input membrane resistance and was blocked by atropine (1.5 microM). The depolarizing response to superfusion with carbachol occurred even when synaptic transmission was blocked by tetrodotoxin, indicating a direct effect of carbachol. Similarly, the depolarization by carbachol was still present when the M-type conductance was blocked by 2 mM Ba2+. The carbachol-induced depolarization was prevented by superfusion with tetraethylammonium (5 mM). Injection of biocytin into some of the recorded cells and subsequent morphological reconstruction showed that &quot;burst&quot; cells have piriform or oval cell bodies with four or five main dendritic trunks; spines are sparse or absent on primary dendrites but abundant on secondary and tertiary dendrites. This cellular type corresponds to a pyramidal morphology. The &quot;multiple-spike&quot; neurons have oval or fusiform somata with four or five thick primary dendritic trunks that leave the soma in opposite directions; they have spiny secondary and tertiary dendrites. Finally, neurons which discharge with a &quot;single spike&quot; to depolarizing pulses are round with four or five densely spiny dendrites, affording these neurons a mossy appearance. The results indicate that most of the amygdaloid neurons respond to carbachol with a depolarization. This effect was concomitant with either decrease or no change in the membrane input resistance and was not blocked by the addition of Ba2+, an M-current blocker, indicating that a conductance pathway other than K+ is involved in the response to carbachol.
The efferent projections of the entorhinal cortex to the striatum were studied with retrograde (horseradish peroxidase wheat germ agglutinin) and anterograde (biocytin and biotinylated dextran amine) tracing methods. The bulk of the entorhinal cortical fibres were found to project to the nucleus accumbens in the ventral striatum, but the caudate putamen is only sparsely and diffusely innervated, rostrally, along its dorsal and medial borders. Fibres arising from neurons in the lateral entorhinal cortex project throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the nucleus accumbens but are most abundant in the core and lateral shell of that nucleus. The rostral neurons of the medial entorhinal cortex were found to project sparsely to the striatum, whereas caudal neurons provide a dense input to the rostral one-third of the nucleus accumbens, especially to the rostral pole, where they concentrate more in the core than in the shell. Contralateral entorhinal projections, which are very sparse, were found in the same parts of the nucleus accumbens and the caudate-putamen as the ipsilateral terminal fields. The present observations that entorhinal inputs to the nucleus accumbens are regionally aligned suggest that disruption of these connections could produce site-specific deficits with, presumably, specific behavioural consequences.
Intrastriatal grafting of embryonic dopamine-containing neurons is a promising approach for treating clinical and experimental Parkinson's disease. However, neuropathological analyses of grafted patients and transplanted rats have demonstrated that the survival of grafted dopamine neurons is relatively poor. In the present study, we pursued a strategy of transferring a potentially neuroprotective gene into rat embryonic mesencephalic rat cells in vitro, before grafting them into the denervated striatum of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. We performed intrastriatal grafts of embryonic day 14 mesencephalic cells infected with replication-defective adenoviruses bearing either the human copper-zinc superoxide dismutase gene or, as a control, the E. coli lac Z marker gene. The transgenes were expressed in the grafts four days after transplantation and the expression persisted for at least five weeks thereafter. After five weeks postgrafting, there was more extensive functional recovery in the superoxide dismutase group as compared to the control (uninfected cells) and beta-galactosidase groups. The functional recovery was significantly correlated with the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells in the grafts, although the clear trend to increased survival of the dopamine neurons in the superoxide dismutase grafts did not reach statistical significance. Only a moderate inflammatory reaction was revealed by OX-42 immunostaining in all groups, suggesting that ex vivo gene transfer using adenoviral vectors is a promising method for delivering functional proteins into brain grafts.
Recently we reported protection of intracerebral mouse to rat hippocampal xenografts upon treatment with a combination of cyclosporin A, prednisolone and azathioprine. These findings are now supported in an extended analysis of graft-infiltrating cells. Host T-cell and macrophage infiltration and the immunocytochemical level of cellular expression of major histocompatibility complex class I and II antigens, measured by densitometric analysis, were compared between recipient rats receiving cyclosporin A alone or cyclosporin A in combination with prednisolone and azathioprine. The combination therapy resulted in a much improved survival of the xenografted hippocampal tissue with preservation of organotypic granule and pyramidal cell layers. Graft infiltration by T-cells and macrophages was significantly lower and the level of major histocompatibility complex class I and II antigen expression by the infiltrating cells markedly reduced. Lower expression of donor-type major histocompatibility complex class I antigen was also found in the xenografts in the trimedicated recipients, together with reduced blood brain barrier leakage and astrogliosis at the host-graft interface. The results demonstrate the benefits of using combined immunosuppressive strategies for protection of histoincompatible brain xenografts in the central nervous system.
We examined the immunohistochemical regional distribution of calcineurin (Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase) in the adult rat hippocampus, following various regional destruction. In the normal adult rat hippocampus, the calcineurin immunoreactivity showed a characteristic pattern. This protein phosphatase was detected in all layers of the CA1 subfield, including the cytoplasm of the pyramidal cells, whereas it was strongly evident in the stratum lucidum and moderately so in the cytoplasm of pyramidal cells in the CA3 subfield. Seven days after transient forebrain ischemia, which induced destruction of CA1 pyramidal cells, the calcineurin immunoreactivity decreased in all layers of the CA1 subfield, while the immunoreactivity for synapsin I, a marker of the presynaptic site, was preserved. Seven days after the intraventricular injection of kainate, which induced destruction of CA3 pyramidal cells, the calcineurin immunoreactivity in the stratum lucidum was preserved, although the immunostaining pattern of the stratum lucidum changed when CA3 pyramidal cells were destroyed. Seven days after mechanical destruction of the dentate gyrus and CA4 subfield, which induced destruction of mossy fibers, the calcineurin immunoreactivity in the stratum lucidum was lost, except in the far site of the stratum lucidum. In the CA1 subfield, calcineurin was mainly located in postsynaptic sites, while it was mainly located in the presynaptic sites in the mossy fibers of the CA3 subfield. The immunohistochemistry of adjacent sections with antibodies of microtubule-associated protein 2 and synapsin I, which are markers of postsynaptic and presynaptic sites respectively, supports these results. Thus, calcineurin has a different synaptical distribution in the rat hippocampus.
Consequences of corticosteroid receptor activation on voltage-dependent Na+ conductances were studied in acutely dissociated CA1 hippocampal neurons. This preparation was selected because of the compact electrotonic properties of dissociated neurons, allowing reliable voltage-clamp of the large and fast Na+ currents. The Na+ currents were studied in (i) neurons of adrenalectomized animals (no steroid receptors occupied), (ii) neurons from tissue of adrenalectomized rats treated in vitro with corticosterone and the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU38486 (selectively occupying the mineralocorticoid receptor), (iii) corticosterone-treated neurons of adrenalectomized animals (occupying both the mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptors) and (iv) neurons of sham-operated animals. Activation and steady-state inactivation properties of the Na+ current recorded in neurons of adrenalectomized animals were slightly shifted (3-5 mV) to hyperpolarized potentials as compared to the Na+ currents from neurons of the other experimental groups. Furthermore, the removal from inactivation of the Na+ current in the group of neurons of adrenalectomized animals was relatively slow. Although small, these effects could influence neuronal properties like action potential generation and accommodation. Under the present experimental conditions, no apparent differences were seen between cells with predominant mineralocorticoid receptor activation and cells where both mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptors were occupied. In contrast to Na+ currents, voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents displayed no steroid-dependent shifts in voltage-dependent properties. However, Ca2+ current amplitudes were increased by approximately 160% in CA1 neurons of adrenalectomized animals as compared to Ca2+ currents from neurons of the other experimental groups. We conclude that corticosteroid receptor activation affects various properties of voltage-dependent Na+ and Ca2+ conductances in CA1 neurons, indicating that the steroid receptors are involved in the modulation of neuronal excitability in these cells.
Some of the effects of glucocorticoids on the function and neuronal plasticity of the hippocampus are mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. We tested the hypothesis that chronic corticosterone administration increases N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor expression in the hippocampus of the rat. We used in situ hybridization histochemistry to measure the messenger RNA levels for the NR1, NR2A and NR2B subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and [3H]dizocilpine maleate (a non-competitive antagonist) binding to measure N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor density. Since corticosterone depresses circulating testosterone levels, we also examined whether the effects of corticosterone are mediated by or interact with the effects of testosterone. In the intact animal, corticosterone increased messenger RNA levels for NR2A and NR2B but not NR1 subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in all regions of the hippocampus. Testosterone had no significant effect on messenger RNA levels of any of the subunits. The subunit composition determines the functional and pharmacological properties of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. We used ifenprodil inhibition of [3H]dizocilpine maleate binding, which has been used to distinguish NR2A- from NR2B-containing receptors, to determine whether corticosterone altered the proportion of high- and low-affinity sites for ifenprodil in parallel with the changes in subunit messenger RNA levels. Corticosterone increased the density of [3H]dizocilpine maleate binding sites without changing the dissociation constant for [3H]dizocilpine maleate or the proportion of high- and low-affinity sites for ifenprodil. These data suggest that the effects of corticosterone on hippocampal function are mediated, in part, by parallel increases in NR2A and NR2B subunit levels and the number of receptor channel binding sites.
Cortical atrophy and cell loss in the cholinergic nucleus basalis is a well-established characteristic of Alzheimer's disease; however, previous studies not have analysed cholinergic cell loss and cortical atrophy in concert. In autopsy brains from eight patients with Alzheimer's disease and 12 control subjects, the numbers of nucleus basalis neurons were determined from 50-microm serial Nissl-stained sections. Volumes of the cerebrum, cortical gray matter (total, lobar and subregional), white matter and deep gray structures were computed by point counting on black and white photographs of gapless 3-mm coronal slices of formalin-fixed brains. Cell loss in the nucleus basalis was found to range between 89% and 42% in Alzheimer's disease compared with controls. White matter volume was unchanged in absolute terms in Alzheimer's disease patients compared with controls, while cortical volume was significantly reduced. Gray matter atrophy was most prominent in temporal and frontal cortices. A highly significant linear relationship was found between cortical volume and nucleus basalis cell number in controls and Alzheimer's disease patients, with values for both groups on a single regression line. Whole brain and cerebral volumes were also highly correlated to nucleus basalis cell numbers in both groups. A quantitative analysis of plaque and tangle burden in cortical target areas of the nucleus basalis was performed. In contrast to the relationship with cortical volume, nucleus basalis cell number and neurofibrillary tangle number were not significantly correlated to the density of cortical histopathology. These results suggest that the volume of cortical gray matter is coupled to the number of nucleus basalis neurons. Compromised viability of nucleus basalis neurons may precede cortical volume loss as large numbers of neurofibrillary tangles, detected with nickel peroxidase staining, were found in this nucleus in all Alzheimer's disease cases, including those with minimal cell loss.

Calcineurin is a serine/threonine protein phosphatase 2B widely distributed in the brain. However, its role in brain function remains unknown. Recent data indicate that calcineurin can participate in long-term depression or long-term potentiation in rat hippocampus. Obviously, calcineurin can also be involved in numerous brain diseases, such as ischaemic hippocampal damage when the protein dephosphorylation system is markedly altered and hyperphosphorylation of the microtubule system in Alzheimer's disease. Besides, abnormal phosphorylation of the cytoskeletal proteins affecting the synaptic signalling can lead to different pathological disorders in the brain. In this study we analysed in more detail the localization of calcineurin in neuronal elements by using confocal microscopy and immunocytochemical approaches to record the enzyme expression in cultured rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. This is the first report showing that calcineurin immunoreactivity is highly expressed in dorsal root ganglion neurons and it is localized mainly near the inner surface of the plasma membrane. Immunostaining of these cells by anti-beta subunits of voltage-operated Ca2+ channels showed that distribution of calcium channel beta-subunit and calcineurin is very similar. Our findings confirm that the function of calcineurin can be directly connected with the activity of voltage-operated calcium channels.
Recent advances in knowledge of crystal structures of MHC class II molecules has advanced understanding of the molecular basis for interactions between peptides and HLA class II molecules. Polymorphism of HLA class II molecules influences structures of peptides bound to HLA class II molecules. To elucidate mechanisms for statistical association between particular HLA class II alleles and susceptibility to autoimmune diseases, it is important to identify self peptides presented by disease-susceptible HLA class II molecules and triggering disease-causative autoreactive T cells. In this study, we tried to identify self-peptides triggering autoimmune diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, insulin autoimmune syndrome, insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and infant-onset myasthenia gravis. Susceptibility to all of these diseases in the Japanese population are known to be strongly associated with particular HLA-DR-DQ haplotypes unique to Asians, and clinical features of some of these diseases are different between Caucasians and Asians including Japanese. We investigated differences in binding-peptide motifs between disease susceptible and non-susceptible HLA class II molecules and predicted candidates of autoimmune self-peptides carrying binding-motifs to disease-susceptible HLA class II molecules. Indeed the major epitope for insulin-autoreactive CD4+ T cell was successfully identified by this strategy. We also found heterogeneity in immunogenetic background between Western type and Asian type of multiple sclerosis. Our data indicated that our strategy is useful to identify autoimmune self-peptides, and it is suggested that not only disease-susceptible HLA class II but also self-peptides causing diseases are different between Caucasians and Asians. These differences may well correlate to different clinical manifestations of diseases between the two ethnic groups.
Epitope tagging is a powerful technique to characterize a recombinantly expressed protein encoded by cDNA without the purification of the protein and the immunization of animals. In some cases, however, the expression of a tagged protein is too low to analyze by Western blot. We have developed a simple method to generate tandem repetitive nucleotide sequence by PCR, which allows us to label a protein of interest with a multiple-epitope tag. When five myc epitopes were attached to vaccinia virus protein CrmA, its signal was multiplied 5.8 times in Western blot analysis, compared with that of one epitope-tagged CrmA.
Interest in electrocochleography has increased in recent years because of the discovery of an elevated summating potential to action potential amplitude ratio (SP/AP ratio) in patients with endolymphatic hydrops caused by Menire's disease or perilymph fistula. It was the purpose of this investigation to determine whether the intraoperative SP/AP ratio will decrease after vestibular nerve section in patients with intractable Meniere's disease. Fourteen patients with medically intractable classic Menire's disease underwent retrosigmoid vestibular nerve section. Intraoperative transtympanic electrocochleography was performed with alternating click stimuli presented at 95 dB HL. In all patients the SP/AP ratio was recorded before the skin incision (&quot;baseline&quot; condition) and after the dura was closed (&quot;closing&quot; condition). Statistical analysis was applied to the recorded data. In 11 (79%) patients, the SP/AP ratio was found to be elevated above 0.30 in the baseline state. In 13 (93%) patients, the SP/AP ratio decreased more than 25% after the nerve was sectioned. These results were highly statistically significant (p &lt; 0.001). We conclude that the SP/AP ratio does decrease in patients with Menire's disease after undergoing retrosigmoid vestibular nerve section and offer a possible explanation.
This study was designed to assess the role of G-proteins and protein kinases in the spinal cord in the behavioral manifestations induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin in rats. A microdialysis fiber was implanted in the spinal cord dorsal horn for administration of G-protein and protein kinase inhibitors to decipher the role of signal transduction cascades in mechanical allodynia induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin. Animals were tested for responses to graded mechanical stimuli using von Frey filaments and for responses to radiant heat stimuli outside the area of injection. The present study demonstrated that intradermal injection of capsaicin results in changes consistent with secondary mechanical allodynia without secondary heat hyperalgesia. Infusion of a G-protein inhibitor (GDP-beta-S), a general protein kinase inhibitor (H7), or selective inhibitors of protein kinase C (NPC15437), protein kinase A (H89), or protein kinase G (KT5823) into the spinal cord dorsal horn reversed the mechanical allodynia induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin in a dose-dependent manner by increasing the threshold to mechanical stimulation towards baseline. This suggests that multiple signal transduction pathways in the spinal cord are involved in the secondary allodynia that occurs following activation of C-fiber afferents by capsaicin.

We report a new visual illusion of a perceptual boundary visible between two contiguous regions of equal luminance when the intensity is modulated with a temporal frequency that is higher than the critical fusion rate. Measurements of the luminance threshold of the perceptual border with various slopes of the luminance gradient yielded a function suggestive of the range of ocular instability. These findings raise the possibility that this new border illusion may be influenced by involuntary ocular motion during fixation.
Placebo is a widespread phenomenon in medicine and biology and its mechanisms are understood only partially. Most of our understanding of placebo comes from studies on pain. In particular, placebo analgesia represents a situation where the administration of a substance known to be non-analgesic produces an analgesic response when the subject is told that it is a pain killer. Several theories try to explain this effect by means of anxiety mechanisms, cognitive processes and classical conditioning. However, the placebo response is bidirectional, i.e. analgesic and algesic. In fact, if a subject is told that the ineffective substance is a hyperalgesic drug, a pain increase may occur. The negative effects of placebo are called nocebo and, in extreme cases, they lead to severe pathological conditions. The neurobiology of placebo was born when some authors discovered that placebo analgesia is mediated by endogenous opioids. This claim comes from the observation that the opioid antagonist naloxone can reverse placebo analgesia. On the basis of the discovery of the anti-opioid action of the neuropeptide cholecystokinin, recent studies demonstrate that the blockade of cholecystokinin receptors potentiates the placebo analgesic response, thus suggesting an inhibitory role of cholecystokinin in placebo analgesia. Thus, by antagonizing the anti-opioid action of cholecystokinin during a placebo procedure, a potentiation of the endogenous opioid systems can be obtained.
As noted previously, it is likely that the tendency to lash out verbally or physically at others is influenced by an interaction among multiple complex biologic factors. We need to investigate how these systems interact with each other to develop a more thorough understanding of the brain's influence over aggressive behavior. We are at a very early stage in our understanding of the neurobiology of aggression. There are no simple tools for studying the complex neurophysiology of the human brain. The studies cited in this article include techniques limited in their utility. As our technologies improve, discovering a more thorough picture of the brain's influence over aggressive behavior may be possible. For example, functional neuroimaging may help to localize abnormal neurotransmitter functioning in the brains of individuals with impulsive aggressive behavior. Our technologies are beginning to reveal the differential effects of subsystems of neurotransmitter regulation. Subtypes of serotonin receptors may differentially mediate impulsive aggressive behaviors. Animal studies suggest that 5-HT 1A receptor stimulation results in a decrease in aggressive behavior. As noted previously, aggressive personality-disordered patients show a blunted prolactin response to the 5-HT1A agonist buspirone. Antagonism of 5-HT 2 receptors appears to decrease aggression, and this effect may explain the ability of newer antipsychotic agents (which, unlike older antipsychotic medications, block 5-HT 2 receptors) to produce a dramatic reduction in aggression and agitation independent of effects on psychotic symptoms. Neglecting psychosocial factors in the causes of aggressive behavior would also be naive. Although environmental factors account for much of the predisposition to aggression, there have been few systematic studies to explore the relationship between life experiences and aggression. In addition, there have been no well-designed studies of the interaction between biology and an individual's environment in the genesis of aggressive behavior. There is some evidence of an association between childhood abuse and neglect and adult antisocial personality disorder, but this relationship might be merely an artifact of the genetic relationship between parental and offspring antisocial personality disorder. As we discussed in the introduction, one of the biggest hurdles in the study of the neurobiology of aggression is the lack of a consensus on definitions. &quot;Intermittent Explosive Disorder&quot; is the only category in DSM-IV that directly addresses individuals with problems with aggression, but the criteria are vague and only focus on a handful of the many patients who exhibit problems with aggressive behavior. It is our hope that investigators in this field can work together toward developing more precise and encompassing diagnostic criteria to study effectively both the neurobiology and treatment of these disorders.
Cognitive and other quality of life measures were assessed in 29 patients with supratentorial malignant astrocytomas before and after high-dose (8000 cGy) multiple daily fractionated radiotherapy. Assessments were done immediately before and after radiotherapy. Patients completed a neuropsychological evaluation and the Functional Living Index: Cancer (FLIC). Spouses completed the Family Environment Scale and the Profile of Mood States. Cognitive abilities generally improved over the course of radiotherapy. Occasionally, deterioration of potential clinical importance was observed on functions associated with the tumour site. Quality of life as assessed by the FLIC was stable in most cases and improved in five, but deteriorated in three patients. Families showed slightly less Conflict and slightly more Cohesion than the norm; this was especially so when patients had greater cognitive deficit. Emotional state of spouses was variable, with increased fatigue or reduced activity most commonly reported, followed by depression and anxiety. Mostly this improved with time or remained stable, but two spouses reported worsening emotional state. Results are generally encouraging for tolerance of this radiotherapy protocol, although they demonstrate that limited adverse effects may occur in some cases.
Hepatotoxicity limits the clinical utility of the cholinesterase inhibitor tacrine as a palliative therapy for Alzheimer's disease. The present studies examined the effects of E2020, a selective acetylcholinesterase inhibitor not associated with liver toxicity in man, on cognitive performance in rhesus monkeys using tasks employed previously to evaluate tacrine and other cholinomimetic agents. The ability of E2020 to prevent the induction of a cognitive impairment by the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine was assessed using an automated spatial delayed response task. Coadministration of E2020 (0.5-1.75 mg/kg) caused a dose-dependent reversal of the scopolamine (0.03 mg/kg) induced impairment observed after retention intervals of 10 and 20 s. At the highest dose of E2020 examined (1.75 mg/kg), choice accuracy approached normal control levels. In this dose range, E2020 was well tolerated, but at the higher dose of 2 mg/kg, cholinergic side-effects were apparent. The effect of E2020 on choice accuracy in a visual recognition task was also assessed as this task does not require the use of scopolamine to disrupt performance and beneficial effects of cholinomimetics can therefore be detected at lower doses than in the spatial memory paradigm. In this task, administration of E2020 increased choice accuracy from 59 +/- 1% correct to up to 71 +/- 2% at doses of 0.03 and 0.05 mg/kg. No observable adverse effects were induced by E2020 in this dose range. The ability of E2020 to improve performance in these cognitive tasks resembles the profile of other cholinesterase inhibitors, including tacrine, that also improve cognitive function in Alzheimer's disease patients. Because of its more favourable clinical safety profile, E2020 may provide a significantly improved palliative therapy for dementia.
In previous research, the drug flumazenil has been categorized both as a pure benzodiazepine antagonist and as a benzodiazepine partial agonist. The following studies used an elevated plus maze to test whether flumazenil would exert any antianxiety action in rats. While chlordiazepoxide (3.0 mg/kg), ethanol (0.75 g/kg), and the atypical benzodiazepine zolpidem (1.0 mg/kg) all significantly increased time spent on the open arms and percent open arm entries, flumazenil (1-10 mg/kg) alone did not produce any anxiolytic effects on the maze. Withdrawal from chronic ethanol treatment led to a decrease in open arm time and percent open arm entries. Flumazenil (3.0 mg/kg) blocked these changes, suggesting that the effects of flumaxenil are at least partially dependent upon the levels of stress or anxiety in the subjects. An anxiolytic action of flumazenil was not seen following the central administration of the neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), which reduced open arm time on the elevated plus maze. These results support the hypothesis that the mechanism of action for flumazenil effects on the anxiety observed during ethanol withdrawal involves antagonism of an endogenous benzodiazepine inverse agonist, rather than activity as a partial agonist or blockade of CRF-mediated effects.
It has been suggested that a combined blockade of 5-HT2A and D2-dopamine receptors improves efficacy and reduces the risk for extrapyramidal symptoms when treating schizophrenic patients with antipsychotic drugs. ORG 5222 is a new potential antipsychotic drug which has high affinity for 5-HT2A, D2-dopamine and alpha 1 adrenergic receptors in vitro. The objective of this study was to examine if ORG 5222 occupies 5-HT2A and D2-dopamine receptors in human subjects in vivo. Central receptor occupancy was measured by positron emission tomography (PET) in three healthy subjects after sublingual administration of 100 micrograms ORG 5222. [11C]N-methylspiperone ([11C] NMSP) was the radioligand used to measure 5-HT2A receptor binding in the neocortex and [11C]raclopride to measure D2-dopamine receptor binding in the striatum. The 5-HT2A occupancy was 15-30% and the D2-dopamine receptor occupancy was 12-23%. The study confirms that ORG 5222 binds to 5-HT2A and D2-dopamine receptors in human brain. Since receptor occupancy of ORG 5222 is rather low, doses higher than 100 micrograms are suggested in future clinical trials to evaluate the antipsychotic drug effect of ORG 5222.
We have previously reported that rats display a circadian pattern of cocaine self-administration if access to drug is limited to 10-min discrete trials that are separated by at least 20 min. In the present study, the pattern of cocaine intake (1.5 mg/kg per injection) was studied in two large groups of animals that were maintained on different 12-h light/dark cycles (3 a.m. to 3 p.m. versus 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.). Regardless of the time of light onset, a circadian pattern of cocaine self-administration was observed. Maximum cocaine intake occurred during the final 6 h of the dark period and was followed by a relative abstinence period during the light phase. This highly predictable pattern of drug taking behavior provided an opportunity to explore the effect of baclofen, a GABAB agonist, on the initiation of self-administration behavior. In two separate studies, acute treatment with baclofen (1.25-5.0 mg/kg) was shown to suppress cocaine intake for at least 4 h. Baclofen had no significant effect on responding for food reinforcement. Previous results have indicated that baclofen appears to reduce specifically the motivation to respond for cocaine. Together, these data suggest that baclofen should be considered as a possible pharmacotherapeutic agent in cocaine addiction.


The main objective of this study was to assess the health behavior, risk awareness and beliefs concerning the importance of positive health practices among blue-collar workers, and to examine the relationships between behavior, knowledge and beliefs. Data were gathered from 1359 workers aged 18-65 years using a postal questionnaire to 2493 randomly selected members of two labor unions. A high prevalence of negative health practices was noted among the respondents. While no relationship was found between health behaviors and awareness of risks associated with such behaviors, there was a relationship between positive health practices and strong beliefs about the importance of those practices. Awareness of the influence of a positive behavior on disease risk was associated with a stronger belief concerning the importance of that behavior. Women were characterized by having more positive health behavior, a higher level of risk awareness and stronger beliefs concerning the importance of positive health practices. It was concluded that while relationships were found between behavior and beliefs, and between beliefs and risk awareness, further research to establish the direction of the relationships is warranted.
The relationship between the degree and distribution of hippocampal atrophy measured by volumetric magnetic resonance imaging and severity of memory deficits in 25 patients with temporal lobe epilepsy secondary to mesial temporal sclerosis was assessed. Hippocampal volumes were expressed as a ratio of smaller to larger, normal ratio greater than 0.95. Neuropsychology tests included: subtests of the WAIS-R, Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Task, Rey Figure and the Austin Maze. Degree of left hippocampal atrophy in patients with left temporal lobe epilepsy was associated with severity of verbal memory deficits as measured by RAVLT total recall (P &lt; 0.05), delayed recall (P &lt; 0.001), story recognition (P &lt; 0.001), list recognition (P &lt; 0.001) and final delayed recall (P &lt; 0.001) and recall of the Rey Figure (P &lt; 0.01). There was no association between degree of right hippocampal atrophy and any of the memory tests. Diffuse left hippocampal atrophy was associated with more severe verbal memory deficits than anterior atrophy. We conclude, the association between degree of left hippocampal atrophy and verbal memory provides further evidence of the predominant involvement of the left hippocampus in verbal memory. The finding of a relationship between degree of left hippocampal atrophy and measures of non-verbal function suggests these tests are dependent on verbal memory, or that mesial temporal sclerosis is a bilateral but asymmetrical condition.
The development of the cells and tissues of the inner ear is controlled in part by the sequential expression of transcription factors, and recent studies have begun to define the roles played by such factors in morphogenesis of the labyrinth. A number of transcription factors have been shown to be expressed during inner ear development. Moreover, several genetic disorders of inner ear development in human and mouse have recently been identified as being caused by mutations of genes controlling transcription factors. In addition, the targeted mutation of several transcription factor genes influence the development of specific inner ear cell types, and suggest a critical role for these factors in controlling inner ear cell lineages. In particular, the POU-domain transcription factors are widely expressed in the developing ear. Gene deletion studies suggest that the Class IV POU-domain transcription factor Brn-3.1 is required for the development of auditory and vestibular hair cells, while Brn-3.0 is necessary for appropriate migration and numbers of spiral ganglion neurons.
Broad-spectrum philosophical resistance to physicalist accounts of conscious awareness has condensed around a single and clearly identified line of argument. Philosophical analysis and criticism of that line of argument has also begun to crystallize. The nature of that criticism coheres with certain theoretical ideas from cognitive neuroscience that attempt to address both the existence and the contents of consciousness. Also, experimental evidence has recently begun to emerge that will serve both to constrain and to inspire such theorizing. The present article attempts to summarize the situation.
Seizure activity has long been associated with alterations in consciousness. Philosophical and neurologic debates concerning the definition of consciousness have led to confusion regarding an adequate third person assessment of a subjective experience. In order to avoid these controversies, neurologic evaluation of consciousness has focused on operational definitions that permit an objective assessment of behavioral responses that are constituent functions of consciousness. Clinical experience has demonstrated that ictal and post-ictal alterations in consciousness may be associated with loss of selected behavioral responses depending upon the focus and spread of seizure activity. Ictal electrophysiologic studies and brain stimulation has assisted in determining the anatomic structures involved in specific behavioral alterations. Consciousness-dependent mental activity can be modeled as a series of interactive parallel information channels that can be selectively disrupted at any stage of processing giving rise to ictal behavioral patterns. While such modeling falls to grasp the subjective nature of consciousness, it offers the clinical community an objective measure of those responses believed to be dependent on consciousness.
The discovery of a novel receptor-opioid receptor-like (ORL) receptor (1994) and its endogenous ligand-Orphanin FQ (OFQ) (1995) represented a new approach in the study of opioids and anti-opioids in CNS. Based on the high homology of ORL receptor and OFQ with their opioid family counterparts, as well as the high expression of ORL receptor mRNA and protein in the brain areas associated with nociception, the effect of OFQ on morphine induced analgesia in the rat brain was further investigated. The results showed that: (1) Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of OFQ reversed the stress analgesia induced by i.c.v. injection of normal saline, which seems to be mediated by endogenous opioid peptides. (2) I.c.v. injection of OFQ dose-dependently antagonized morphine-induced analgesia dose-dependently. (3) I.c.v. injection of antisense oligodeoxynucleotide for the gene encoding ORL receptor to block the expression of ORL receptor in the CNS potentiated the analgesia induced by cumulative injection of morphine. The results suggest that OFQ seems to play a role of anti-opioid peptide in the rat brain.
We use the crude extract from human fetal spinal cord to study the effect of endogenous substances of the spinal cord on neurite growth of E 12-15 mouse GABAergic and DNYergic neurons of the spinal cord in vitro. The results indicated that the crude extract had no effect on GABAergic neurons but had markedly neurite-promoting effect on DNYergic neurons when the protein concentration of the crude extract was 250 micrograms/ml. It suggests that there are endogenous substances in the crude extract of the human fetal spinal cord, which can promote neurite growth of spinal cord neurons and this effect is neuron type specific at particular embryonic age.
A 10-year-old child suddenly developed nocturnal enuresis and nocturnal behaviors similar to parasomnia that were occasionally violent. The child had no recollection of the events. Continuous video/electroencephalograph monitoring revealed the episodic nocturnal events with bizarre behaviors during what was perceived to be sleep, but in fact, the child was fully awake with his eyes closed, prior to and during the events. The attacks ceased with individual psychotherapy and family counseling.



The vesicular monoamine transporter-2 (VMAT2) mediates the reserpine-sensitive neuronal uptake of monoamines into vesicles and other intracellular organelles. Accordingly, this transporter is expressed at high levels in regions that contain a dense monoamine innervation, such as the rat dorsolateral striatum. We used ultrastructural immunocytochemistry in this region to show that immunogold labeling for VMAT2 is present in varicose axonal processes, many of which also contain the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine-hydroxylase. Within these mainly dopaminergic processes, VMAT2 was associated with small synaptic vesicles (SSVs) and more rarely with large dense-core vesicles or tubulovesicles. These findings suggest that SSVs are the major organelles involved in the storage and release of dopamine in the dorsolateral striatum.
The discovery of a novel high-affinity and selective dopamine D4 receptor antagonist, L-745,870, and the results of clinical trials with this compound are reviewed. Despite several lines of evidence which suggest that a selective D4 receptor antagonist may be an effective antipsychotic agent with a lower propensity to induce extrapyramidal side-effects, L-745,870 was ineffective as an antipsychotic in humans.
When human subjects are presented with visual displays consisting of random dots moving sideways at different velocities, they perceive transparent surfaces, moving in the same direction but located at different distances from themselves. They perceive depth from motion parallax, without any additional cues to depth, such as relative size, occlusion or binocular disparity. Simultaneously, large-field visual motion triggers compensatory eye movements which tend to offset such motion, in order to stabilize the visual image of the environment. In a series of experiments, we investigated how such reflexive eye movements are controlled by motion parallax displays, that is, in a situation where a complete stabilization of the visual image is never possible. Results show that optokinetic nystagmus, and not merely active visual pursuit of singular elements, is triggered by such displays. Prior to the detection of depth from motion parallax, eye tracking velocity is equal to the average velocity of the visual image. After detection, eye tracking velocity spontaneously matches the slowest velocity in the visual field, but can be controlled by attentional factors. Finally, for a visual stimulation containing more than three velocities, subjects are no longer able to perceptually dissociate between different surfaces in depth, and eye tracking velocity remains equal to the average velocity of the visual image. These data suggest that, in the presence of flow fields containing motion parallax, optokinetic eye movements are modulated by perceptual and attentional factors.
The frog horizontal monocular optokinetic nystagmus (H-OKN) is asymmetrical, the reflex being evoked by a temporal-nasal (T-N) component, but not by a nasal-temporal (N-T) component. Coil recordings showed that, in adult animals, 8 days of monocular deprivation (by unilateral eyelid suture) provoked the appearance of a N-T component, the H-OKN becoming symmetrical, reacting for both directions of stimulation. This delay was shortened to 2 days following two successive unilateral pretectal administrations of NMDA or of LY 285 265, an NMDA agonist, the first 2 days of eyelid suture. The same results were obtained when chronic microinjections of NMDA or LY 285 265 were achieved, the frogs being maintained in total darkness during the week of eyelid suture. These data indicate that the plasticity phenomenon evidenced in the monocular frog H-OKN depends on the activation of the NMDA receptors of one pretectum. This activation was obtained either by a monocular light stimulation of 8 days duration, or by unilateral administration of drugs activating the NMDA glutamatergic pretectal system. In this last case, the light stimulation was no longer necessary.
Serum levels of parathyroid hormone (PTH), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), calcium, creatinine, and vitamin D and the glomerular filtration rate were compared with the histologic properties and expression of PTH and chromogranin A in excised parathyroid adenomas from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT). PTH and chromogranin A were detected immunohistochemically, and their mRNA was demonstrated by in situ hybridization with quantification of their mRNA levels by image analysis. There was a positive correlation between the cellular levels of PTH mRNA and the cellular levels of chromogranin A mRNA (r = 4.4; p &lt; 0.05). However, within certain parts of the adenomas, mostly consisting of chief cells, the expression of PTH mRNA and chromogranin A mRNA was heterogeneous and the levels did not correspond to each other. A reduced suppressibility of PTH in patients with pHPT was confirmed. Although cellular levels of PTH and chromogranin A and their mRNAs were low in the oxyphilic parts of the adenomas, there was no correlation between the amount of oxyphilic cells in the adenomas and the suppressibility of PTH by calcium. There was also no association between the cellular levels of PTH mRNA or chromogranin A mRNA as studied by image analysis and &quot;calcium sensitivity.&quot; Our results thus demonstrate that although PTH and chromogranin A mRNA levels are in general correlated to each other there are differences in their expression within and between individual parathyroid adenomas. It therefore seems likely that the expression of PTH and chromogranin A are differentially regulated, and that PTH and chromogranin A may not always be co-secreted. This point could be of importance, as chromogranin A and its cleavage products are known to influence PTH secretion.



An in vivo method is presented that allows quantification and imaging of fatty acid incorporation into different brain phospholipids in relation to membrane synthesis, neuroplasticity, and signal transduction. The method can be used with positron emission tomography, and may help to evaluate brain phospholipid metabolism in humans with brain tumors, neurodegenerative disease, cerebral ischemia or trauma, or neurotoxic effects of drugs or other agents.
Using RT-PCR, gene expression of the peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor isoquinoline carboxamide-binding protein (PTBR-IBP) was studied in the frontal cortex of rats four weeks following end-to-side portacaval anastomosis, an experimental animal model of hepatic encephalopathy, or sham operation. Portacaval anastomosis resulted in increased expression of PTBR-IBP in frontal cortex and in a concomitant increase in densities (Bmax) of binding sites for the PTBR ligand [3H]PK11195. In view of the findings that the PTBR modulates the synthesis of neurosteroids with high affinity for excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitter systems in brain, increased expression of these receptors could be implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy.
We have previously shown that subordination causes a reduction in the levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine and dopamine selectively in the frontal cortex [6]. These monoamines are catabolised mainly by the enzyme monoamine oxidase (MAO) which exists in two isoforms; MAO-A and MAO-B. The present study was carried out to determine whether there is any change in the activity of these two iso-enzymes induced by subordination and if any such alteration is confined to the frontal cortex. The animal model of dominance-subordination used was a worker-parasite paradigm in male Wistar rats. The enzyme activities were measured in five brain regions, the frontal cortex, entorhinal cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus and striatum, using kynuramine as the substrate. Clorgyline and L-deprenyl were used in vitro to block the activities of MAO-A and MAO-B, respectively. There was a significant (P &lt; 0.001) reduction in the activity of MAO-A as well as MAO-B selectively in the frontal cortex of the subordinate animals. This finding may suggest a reduced neurotransmitter turnover in the serotonergic and dopaminergic neurons terminating in the frontal cortex.
The influence of entorhinal cortex lesions on behaviour and concommitant changes in synaptophysin immunoreactivity (IR) in the denervated dentate gyrus was assessed. Male, C57/B6 mice received either bilateral (BI), unilateral (UNI), or no lesion (SHAM) to the entorhinal cortex. At various stages post-lesion the animals were evaluated in tests to examine neurological and cognitive (spatial and cued learning, Morris water maze) function. UNI lesioned animals from 6-36 days post-lesion showed no neurological nor marked cued learning deficit, yet a profound spatial learning deficit. However by 70 days post-lesion, spatial learning ability was clearly evident. In contrast, BI lesioned animals showed severe spatial learning deficits throughout the test period (6-70 days), cued learning was also impaired. In parallel groups of UNI lesioned mice, 6-36 days post-lesion there was a marked reduction (-40%) in synaptophysin IR in the dentate gyrus molecular layer. However by 70 days post-lesion a clear increase in this measure was noted. Changes in the expression of the growth associated protein, GAP43, were also noted over this period. Taken together, the present results suggest some recovery of spatial learning following unilateral entorhinal cortex lesions in mice. This behavioural recovery of a hippocampally dependant task may be associated with a recovery of function related to the synaptic remodelling and elevation of synapse number in the denervated hippocampus, as evidenced by changes in synaptophysin and GAP43 IR.
The present study is concerned with the ability of muscarinic actions of acetylcholine (ACh) to modulate glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated synaptic transmission in the in vitro rat auditory cortex. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were obtained from layer II-III pyramidal neurons, and the fast-EPSP (AMPA/kainate), fast-IPSP (GABA(A)), and slow-IPSP (GABA(B)), were elicited following a stimulus to deep gray/white matter. Acetyl-beta-methylcholine (MCh), a muscarinic receptor agonist, applied by either superfusion or iontophoresis, produced an atropine-sensitive increase or decrease in the amplitude of the fast-EPSP. The effect of MCh could be predicted by the response of the fast-EPSP to paired-pulse stimulation (i.e. a conditioning pulse followed 300 ms later by a test pulse). The fast-EPSP was decreased in amplitude by MCh in cases where the test-EPSP was suppressed in the pre-MCh condition, and increased in amplitude when the test-EPSP was facilitated. The fast- and slow-IPSPs were always reduced by MCh. In several experiments, the strength of synaptic inhibition was systematically modified by varying stimulus intensity. When the fast-EPSP was elicited in the absence of IPSPs, it was decreased in amplitude by MCh. However, when the fast-EPSP was elicited in conjunction with large IPSPs it was increased in amplitude during MCh. Because the magnitude of the fast-EPSP is influenced by the degree of temporal overlap with IPSPs, it was hypothesized that enhancement of the fast-EPSP was the result of disinhibition produced as a consequence of muscarinic reduction of GABAergic IPSPs. This view was supported by the finding that MCh could reduce the amplitude of pharmacologically isolated GABAergic IPSPs (i.e. elicited in the absence of glutamatergic transmission). Our results suggest that ACh at muscarinic receptors can modify fast glutamatergic neurotransmission differently as a function of strength of inhibition, to suppress that produced by 'weak' inputs and enhance that produced by 'strong' inputs.
The anticonvulsant activity of (S)-4-carboxy-3-hydroxyphenylglycine ((S)-4C3HPG) (an antagonist of Group I and an agonist of Group II metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors), of (1S,3S)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid ((1S,3S)-ACPD) (an agonist of Group II mGlu receptors), and of L-serine-O-phosphate (an agonist of Group III mGlu receptors) was studied against sound-induced seizures in genetically epilepsy-prone (GEP) rats following bilateral microinjection into the inferior colliculus. All 3 drugs produce dose-dependent suppression of all phases of sound-induced seizures (wild running, clonic and tonic). (S)-4C3HPG produces an immediate and short-lasting (&lt; 2 h) protection against sound-induced seizures with an ED50 value of 4.3 (3.2-5.7) nmol, at 5 min. The preferential agonists of Group II and Group III mGlu receptors produce an immediate, transient (&lt; 10 min) proconvulsant effect followed by a prolonged (&gt; 1 day) anticonvulsant effect against sound-induced seizures. The anticonvulsant ED50 value for (1S,3S)-ACPD is 9 (5-18) nmol at 2 h, and for L-serine-O-phosphate is 36 (6.5-199) nmol at 2 days. It is concluded that mGlu receptor activation potently modifies seizure threshold.
The periaqueductal grey matter (PAG) is known to adjust somatic and neurovegetative elements of the defence behaviour. We have used specific polyclonal antibodies to examine the distribution of the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5) in this region. Immunolabelling for mGluR5 displayed a net preference for dorsolateral areas at rostral and intermediate levels. Electronmicroscopic examination revealed that mGluR5 is expressed in neuronal perikarya and in dendrites receiving synaptic contacts of Gray I type. To investigate the possible relevance of mGluR5 to integration of somatosensory information, spinoannular (SA) neurones were peroxidase-labelled and their relationship with mGluR5-expressing PAG neurones was examined at the ultrastructural level. A number of synaptic terminals of the SA pathway established synaptic contact of asymmetric type onto mGluR5-immunoreactive dendrites. It is suggested that mGluR5 might be involved in the temporal integration of somatosensory inputs to the PAG.

Cyclin D1 plays a key regulatory role during the G1 phase of the cell cycle and its gene is amplified and overexpressed in many cancers. To address the relationship between cyclin D1 and other cell cycle regulatory proteins, we established human glioma and rodent fibroblast cell lines in which cyclin D1 expression could be regulated ectopically with tetracycline. In both of these cell lines, we found that ectopic expression of cyclin D1 in asynchronously growing cells was accompanied by increased levels of the p53 tumor suppressor protein and the cyclin/cdk inhibitor p21. Despite the induction of these cell cycle inhibitory proteins, cyclin D1-associated cdk kinase remained activated and the cells grew essentially like that of the parent cells. Although growth parameters were unchanged in these cells, morphological changes were clearly identifiable and anchorage independent growth was observed in NIH3T3 cells. In a first step toward elaborating the mechanism for cyclin D1-mediated induction of p21 gene expression we show that co-expression of E2F-1 and DP-1 can specifically transactivate the p21 promoter. In support of these findings and a direct effect of E2F on induction of p21 gene expression a putative E2F binding site was identified within the p21 promoter. In summary, our results demonstrate that ectopic expression of cyclin D1 can induce gene expression of the cdk inhibitor p21 through an E2F mechanism the consequences of which are not to growth arrest cells but possibly to stabilize cyclin D1/cdk function.
Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder characterized by the development of bilateral vestibular schwannomas, meningiomas, ependymomas and juvenile lens opacities. The NF2 gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein, schwannomin (or merlin), with sequence homology to erythrocyte band 4.1, talin, ezrin, moesin and radixin. Using an antibody that recognizes the carboxy-terminal epitope of isoform 1 of schwannomin, we looked at its expression in lens and Schwann cells, two cell-types affected by the NF2 phenotype. Schwannomin was detected as an approximately 80 kDa protein in both cytoplasmic and cytoskeleton fractions. Indirect immunofluorescence localized schwannomin to the cytoplasm and was frequently observed in dynamic cellular regions such as leading edges and ruffling membranes. Its level of expression in the lens inversely correlates with the degree of lens cell differentiation suggesting a role for schwannomin in differentiation-specific events.
In order to study the neurophysiological correlates of working memory for different types of information, event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded during a visual spatial and visual as well as auditory duration memory tasks. From stimulus onset to 500 ms ERPs were distinguishable by allocation to visual or auditory modality. From 500 to 2000 ms after stimulus onset, the spatial task generated a parieto-occipital focused negative slow wave, while corresponding ERPs of the temporal task showed a negative slow wave with frontolateral focus. From 1200 to 5500 ms a large positivity was found for the auditory temporal task and for good performers of the visual temporal task. The data suggest a distinction of three processing phases: modality-specific encoding, information-specific encoding and retention in conjunction with modality-specific inhibition processes.
The association of astrocytes with plaques is a well-established feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and has generally been interpreted as a secondary reaction to amyloid deposition or neuronal degeneration. Astrocytes in brain tissue from six non-demented controls and six patients with AD were investigated using enhanced immunohistochemistry for glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) in serial sections from cortex, basal forebrain, amygdala, putamen and diencephalon. Astrocytes colocalized with all diffuse and non-diffuse plaques in AD and control brain tissue. All plaque-associated astrocytes contacted microvessels, and despite having greater numbers of hypertrophic and fine calibre processes, the cells maintained the perivascular arrangement characteristic of control brain tissue. These observations suggest that plaques form at the site of microvascular aberrations followed by reactive and degenerative changes in perivascular astrocytes.
A polyclonal antibody (R1), raised against chick synaptic membrane glycoproteins and recognizing the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) caused amnesia for avoidance tasks when injected into day-old chicks and adult rats 5.5 h post-training. We investigated the effects of R1 antibody on memory formation in a non-aversive task, where stress is minimal: a massed trial odour discrimination task in rats. Preimmune serum or R1 antibody was injected i.c.v. 5.5 h after the last training session. Forty-eight hours after the training session, control rats showed very good retention whereas R1 antibody injection significantly disrupted retention. The results suggest that glycoproteins recognized by R1 in the rat play a specific role in memory formation for appetitive events as well as in memory formation for aversive situations.
Some AMPA receptors are permeable to Ca2+. It has been suggested that cultured rat cerebellar granule cells express Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors, but their distribution at a single cell level is unknown. We report that AMPA (in the presence of cyclothiazide) induced Ca2+ entry (measured by Mn2+ quench of fura-2 fluorescence) and intracellular Ca2+ increases in cerebellar granule cells in the absence of extracellular Na+, supporting the presence of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors. Analysis of intracellular Ca2+ signals in single cells demonstrated a heterogeneous distribution of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors.
We evaluated the effect of a single dose of a cholinesterase inhibitor, tetrahydroaminoacridine (THA; 25 and 50 mg, orally), on attention in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). THA 50 mg improved performance in attentional measures (Trail Making Test, Big/Little Circle, Simple and Choice Reaction Time) in nine of 28 patients with AD. We analysed retention of 99mTc-labelled ethylene dicysteinate (ECD) in the cortical areas using single photon emission computed tomography. Those patients who benefited from THA treatment had bilaterally higher frontal and prefrontal ECD retention values. We suggest that THA may improve attention in patients with AD, but a severe frontal dysfunction may block the therapeutic effect of THA.
To test the cognitive effects of aging and apolipoprotein E (APOE) in individuals at high risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD), we assessed APOE genotypes and performance on a battery of neuropsychological tests in 41 non-demented, Down syndrome (DS) adults. Old DS subjects (ages 41-61 years) showed poorer memory and orientation scores than young DS adults (ages 22-38 years), but the groups did not differ in other measures after we controlled for intellectual function. Language ability was inversely related to APOE genotype, even after age was controlled for, with the presence of the epsilon 2 allele corresponding to better language skills than epsilon 4. Age-related cognitive changes in non-demented DS adults are consistent with the early effects of AD. The relationship between basic linguistic skills and APOE genotype supports this genetic factor in influencing the development of dementia and AD neuropathology in DS.
Early alterations in mRNAs encoding neurotrophins and stress proteins were investigated following intracerebroventricular injections of beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine (BOAA) and beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine (BMAA) in adult rats using in situ hybridization. Major increases in heat-shock protein 70, c-fos and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNAs were seen in hippocampus 1 h after BOAA or BMAA injections. Nerve growth factor mRNA was profoundly increased in the dentate gyrus (DG) after both treatments. Four hours after BMAA injections increased hybridization to BDNF mRNA was still seen in hippocampus, in parallel with reduced neurotrophin-3 expression in the DG. These alterations are in accordance with previous findings of BOAA and BMAA as potent glutamate receptor agonists.
The developmental expression of macroscopic Ca2+-activated K+ currents (IK[Ca]) in chicken ciliary ganglion (CG) neurons is dependent in part on trophic factors released from preganglionic nerve terminals. Neuregulins are expressed in the preganglionic neurons that innervate the chicken CG and are therefore plausible candidates for this activity. Application of 1 nM beta1-neuregulin peptide for 12 hr evokes a large (7- to 10-fold) increase in IK[Ca] in embryonic day 9 CG neurons, even in the presence of a translational inhibitor. A similar posttranslational effect is produced by high concentrations (10 nM) of epidermal growth factor and type alpha transforming growth factor but not by 10 nM alpha2-neuregulin peptide or by neurotrophins at 40 ng.ml-1. beta1-neuregulin treatment for 12 hr also confers Ca2+ sensitivity onto large-conductance (285 pS) K+ channels observed in inside-out patches. beta-Neuregulins have no effect on voltage-activated Ca2+ currents of CG neurons. These data support the hypothesis that beta-neuregulins mediate the trophic effects of preganglionic nerve terminals on the electrophysiological differentiation of developing CG neurons.
Mice deficient in monoamine oxidase A (MAOA), an enzyme that metabolizes monoamines such as norepinephrine and serotonin, have elevated norepinephrine and serotonin levels in the frontal cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum, compared with normal wild-type mice. Since monoamines in these areas are critically involved in a variety of behaviors, we examined learning and memory (using emotional and motor tasks) in MAOA mutant mice. The MAOA-deficient mice exhibited significantly enhanced classical fear conditioning (freezing to both tone and contextual stimuli) and step-down inhibitory avoidance learning. In contrast, eyeblink conditioning was normal in these mutant mice. The female MAOA-deficient mice also displayed normal species-typical maternal behaviors (nesting, nursing, and pup retrieval). These results suggest that chronic elevations of monoamines, due to a deletion of the gene encoding MAOA, lead to selective alterations in emotional behavior.
Severely elevated levels of total homocysteine (approximately millimolar) in the blood typify the childhood disease homocystinuria, whereas modest levels (tens of micromolar) are commonly found in adults who are at increased risk for vascular disease and stroke. Activation of the coagulation system and adverse effects of homocysteine on the endothelium and vessel wall are believed to underlie disease pathogenesis. Here we show that homocysteine acts as an agonist at the glutamate binding site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, but also as a partial antagonist of the glycine coagonist site. With physiological levels of glycine, neurotoxic concentrations of homocysteine are on the order of millimolar. However, under pathological conditions in which glycine levels in the nervous system are elevated, such as stroke and head trauma, homocysteine's neurotoxic (agonist) attributes at 10-100 microM levels outweigh its neuroprotective (antagonist) activity. Under these conditions neuronal damage derives from excessive Ca2+ influx and reactive oxygen generation. Accordingly, homocysteine neurotoxicity through overstimulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors may contribute to the pathogenesis of both homocystinuria and modest hyperhomocysteinemia.
In both human and Old World primates visual information is conveyed by two parallel pathways: the magnocellular (M) and parvocellular (P) streams that project to separate layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus and are involved primarily in motion and color/form discrimination. The present study provides evidence that retinal ganglion cells in the macaque monkey embryo diverge into M and P subtypes soon after their last mitotic division and that optic axons project directly and selectively to either the M or P moieties of the developing lateral geniculate nucleus. Thus, initial M projections from the eyes overlap only in prospective layers 1 and 2, whereas initial P projections overlap within prospective layers 3-6. We suggest that the divergence of the M and P pathways requires developmental mechanisms different from those underlying competition-driven segregation of initially intermixed eye-specific domains in the primate visual system.
There is great interest in understanding the mechanisms of expression underlying long-term potentiation (LTP). They are agreed to involve an increase in synaptic efficacy, which is described by three multiplicative parameters: p, the probability of neurotransmitter release; n, the number of active release sites; and q, the postsynaptic unit response to transmitter release. We report three new lines of evidence suggesting that increases in p contribute to LTP expression. (i) When the contributions to LTP by p, n, and q are maximized, and p alone is decreased, another high-frequency stimulation elicits additional LTP. The additional potentiation is only associated with decreases in paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) suggesting an increase in p. (ii) There is an inverse relationship between baseline p [corrected] and the magnitude of LTP elicited, consistent with p [corrected] having more or less room to increase when p is smaller or greater. (iii) It has been shown that there is an inverse relationship between the magnitude of LTP induced and the associated changes in PPF. Now I find that decreasing p before inducing LTP moves the set-point for measuring those changes in PPF from before to after p is decreased, which would only occur if p contributes to LTP. Three lines of evidence, then, suggest that increases in p contribute to LTP expression, which is consistent with a presynaptic contribution to LTP. These experiments do not address potential postsynaptic contributions.
Two synthetic cannabinoids, WIN 55,212-2 {R-(+)-(2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[{4-morpholinylmethyl]pyrol [1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl)(1-naphthalenyl)methanone monomethanesulfonate} (5.0 and 10 mg/kg i.p.) and CP 55,940 {[1a,2-(R)-5-(1.1-dimethylheptyl)-2-[5-hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxypropyl) cyclohexyl]-phenol} {[1a,2-(R)-5-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)-2-[5-hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxypropyl) cyclohexyl]-phenol} (0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg i.p.), inhibited acetylcholine release in the rat hippocampus. The inhibition was prevented by the cannabinoid receptor antagonist, SR 141716A {N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4- chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide} HCl, at the dose of 0.1 mg/kg i.p. Higher doses of SR 141716A (1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg i.p.) themselves increased hippocampal acetylcholine release, suggesting that acetylcholine output is tonically inhibited by endogenous cannabinoids. The results also suggest that the negative effects of marijuana on learning and memory may depend on cannabinoid receptor-mediated inhibition of acetylcholine release.
In previous studies we showed that low (pM) concentrations of naloxone (NLX), naltrexone (NTX) or etorphine selectively antagonize excitatory, but not inhibitory, opioid receptor-mediated functions in nociceptive types of sensory neurons in culture. Cotreatment of these neurons with pM NTX or etorphine not only results in marked enhancement of the inhibitory potency of acutely applied nM morphine [or other bimodally-acting (inhibitory/excitatory) opioid agonists], but also prevents development of cellular manifestations of tolerance and dependence during chronic exposure to microM morphine. These in vitro studies were confirmed in vivo by demonstrating that acute cotreatment of mice with morphine plus a remarkably low dose of NTX (ca. 10 ng/kg) does, in fact, enhance the antinociceptive potency of morphine, as measured by hot-water tail-flick assays. Furthermore, chronic cotreatment of mice with morphine plus low doses of NTX markedly attenuates development of naloxone-precipitated withdrawal-jumping in physical dependence assays. The present study provides systematic dose-response analyses indicating that NTX elicited optimal enhancement of morphine's antinociceptive potency in mice when co-administered (i.p.) at about 100 ng/kg together with morphine (3 mg/kg). Doses of NTX as low as 1 ng/kg or as high as 1 microg/kg were still effective, but to a lesser degree. Oral administration of NTX in the drinking water of mice was equally effective as i.p. injections in enhancing the antinociceptive potency of acute morphine injections and even more effective in attenuating development of tolerance and NLX-precipitated withdrawal-jumping during chronic cotreatment. Cotreatment with a subanalgesic dose of etorphine (10 ng/kg) was equally effective as NTX in enhancing morphine's antinociceptive potency and attenuating withdrawal-jumping after chronic exposure. These studies provide a rationale for the clinical use of ultra-low-dose NTX or etorphine so as to increase the antinociceptive potency while attenuating the tolerance/dependence liability of morphine or other conventional bimodally-acting opioid analgesics.
In order to investigate possible differences between NMDA receptor-coupled ion channels in the spinal cord and in the cerebral cortex, we have characterized [3H]MK-801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine] binding and its regulation by glutamate and glycine in membrane preparations of the rat spinal cord and cerebral cortex. The K(D) value of [3H]MK-801 binding was higher in the spinal cord than in the cerebral cortex, mainly due to a lower association rate constant. When corrected for the concentrations of residual endogenous amino acids, the EC50 values for glycine were lower at spinal NMDA receptors compared to those in the cerebral cortex, whereas the EC50 values for glutamate were similar in both regions. The IC50 values of D-((3)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (D-CPP) were significantly lower in the spinal cord in the presence of saturating concentrations of glutamate. The IC50 values of 7-chloro-4-hydroxy-3-(3-phenoxy)phenyl-2(H)-quinoline (L-701,324) were significantly lower in the spinal cord under all conditions. These results suggest that NMDA receptors in the spinal cord display low affinity for MK-801, which may correspond to a lower affinity of the voltage-dependent Mg2+ block. Furthermore, NMDA receptors in the spinal cord appear to display high sensitivity to glycine and to glutamate and glycine antagonists.
Dystroglycan is encoded by a single gene and cleaved into two proteins alpha- and beta-dystroglycan by posttranslational processing. Recently, alpha-dystroglycan was demonstrated to be an extracellular laminin-binding protein anchored to the cell membrane by a transmembrane protein beta-dystroglycan in striated muscle and Schwann cells. However, the biological functions of the dystroglycan-laminin interaction remain obscure, and in particular, it is still unclear if dystroglycan plays a role in cell adhesion. In the present study, we characterized the role of dystroglycan in the adhesion of schwannoma cells to laminin-1. Immunochemical analysis demonstrated that the dystroglycan complex, comprised of alpha- and beta-dystroglycan, was a major laminin-binding protein complex in the surface membrane of rat schwannoma cell line RT4. It also demonstrated the presence of alpha-dystroglycan, but not beta-dystroglycan, in the culture medium, suggesting secretion of alpha-dystroglycan by RT4 cells. RT4 cells cultured on dishes coated with laminin-1 became spindle in shape and adhered to the bottom surface tightly. Monoclonal antibody IIH6 against alpha-dystroglycan was shown previously to inhibit the binding of laminin-1 to alpha-dystroglycan. In the presence of IIH6, but not several other control antibodies in the culture medium, RT4 cells remained round in shape and did not adhere to the bottom surface. The adhesion of RT4 cells to dishes coated with fibronectin was not affected by IIH6. The known inhibitors of the interaction of alpha-dystroglycan with laminin-1, including EDTA, sulfatide, fucoidan, dextran sulfate, heparin, and sialic acid, also perturbed the adhesion of RT4 cells to laminin-1, whereas the reagents which do not inhibit the interaction, including dextran, chondroitin sulfate, dermatan sulfate, and GlcNAc, did not. Altogether, these results support a role for dystroglycan as a major cell adhesion molecule in the surface membrane of RT4 cells.
Enkephalin peptides released from hippocampal mossy fibres lower the threshold for the generation of long-term potentiation (LTP) at the mossy fibre synapses. High frequency stimulation of the hippocampal dentate gyrus, sufficient to induce mossy fibre LTP, is associated with increased expression of the proenkephalin gene in the granule cells. We show here that a similar elevation in proenkephalin mRNA levels is observed, in anaesthetised rats, following stimulation of the perforant path sufficient to induce LTP in the perforant path/granule cell synapses. This strengthens the evidence implicating granule cell enkephalins as mediators of functional plasticity in the hippocampus. Furthermore. the results hint at a form of 'domino plasticity', where potentiation of transmission at the perforant path/granule cell synapses is subsequently followed by an enkephalin-mediated potentiation of transmission at the mossy fibre synapses.
Ubiquitin-immunoreactive neuronal inclusions in the granular cells in the dentate fascia (UNIDs) of patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA) were examined for immunohistochemical and ultrastructural characterization especially in comparison with those which were recently reported for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia (ALS-D). Eight of 23 MSA patients had UNIDs which were also identified by Gallyas-Braak impregnation but immunonegative for other antibodies including against tau, neurofilaments, and alphaB crystallin. Ultrastructurally, loosely aggregated fibrils without limiting membrane located around the nucleus, which was confirmed by the results of ubiquitin-immunoelectron microscopy. The formation of UNIDs in MSA and ALS-D was suggested to be caused by different types of degeneration because UNIDs in MSA differ from these in ALS-D in terms of their stainability by Gallyas-Braak impregnation and ultrastructurally. In this study hippocampal involvement in MSA differing from ALS-D was clarified.
Cortical maps often contain global spatial structure: however, theoretical accounts for their development have generally concentrated on reproducing only local structure. We show that the elastic net model of cortical map formation can closely approximate the global structure of the ocular dominance column map observed in macaque primary visual cortex. A key component is the assumption of spatially non-uniform and anisotropic correlations in the retina. This work shows how genetic and epigenetic effects could combine to establish characteristic global structure in cortical maps.

The role of neurons on expression of myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) in oligodendrocytes and oligodendroglial differentiation was examined. Primary cultures of oligodendrocytes prepared from neonatal mouse brains were co-cultured with neuronal cells derived from embryonal carcinoma P19 cells. The levels of MAG mRNAs following this co-culture were determined by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. In oligodendrocytes co-cultured in direct contact with P19-derived neurons, the levels of MAG mRNAs, particularly that of the L-type isoform, were markedly higher than those in cultures without any neuronal cells. On the other hand, when the P19-derived neurons were present, but not in direct contact, no significant induction of MAG expression was found, though oligodendrocytes appeared to mature morphologically. The L-MAG expression was also stimulated when just the neuronal cell membrane fraction was added, which implies that there might be some effecter(s) in the cell membrane which are possibly exerting a signal transduction for myelin formation. These results suggest that morphological differentiation and functional maturation of oligodendrocytes are due to independent factors. The former is caused by some humoral factor(s) liberated from neuronal cells, while the latter resulted from cellular contact with neuronal cells.
We have previously reported that prostaglandin(PG) E2 levels in sheep cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are high prenatally and abate rapidly after birth. This event may contribute to the establishment of continuous breathing. To explain this change, we have examined PG disposal mechanisms in the perinatal and adult (pregnant and non-pregnant animal) sheep brain by measuring the capacity of the isolated choroid plexus to concentrate [3H]PGF2alpha and [3H]PGE2. At 0.9 gestation, [3H]PGF2alpha uptake (expressed as the tissue-to-medium ratio, T/M) attained a steady-state by 15 min and was maintained thereafter (T/M at 60 min, 5.6 +/- 0.6; n = 16). Likewise, [3H]PGE2 was taken up by the tissue, but the actual accumulation was smaller (T/M at 60 min, 2.6 +/- 0.2; n = 8). Thin-layer radiochromatographic analysis of the tissue following incubation with [3H]PGF2alpha showed that 55 +/- 4% (n = 10) of radioactivity migrated as the 15-keto-13,14-dihydro metabolite. [3H]PGF2alpha uptake decreased upon treatment with probenecid (1 mM) (T/M, 2.5 +/- 0.2; n = 10) or after adding unlabelled PGF2alpha to the medium (1-60 microM) (T/M at 60 microM, 1.8 +/- 0.1; n = 13). The yield of labelled metabolite was also lower when using excess PGF2alpha (14% of control at 60 microM; n = 13), while it was not affected by probenecid. Uptake of both PGs did not change through development, from 0.7 gestation to day 18 postnatal, and attained higher values in the pregnant adult. Conversely, PGF2alpha catabolism decreased postnatally and became negligible by adult age. We conclude that during the perinatal period PGs can be removed from CSF by two distinct processes in the choroid plexus, active transport and catabolism. Neither process, however, can account for the birth-related change in CSF PGE2.
The ability of tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonists to inhibit GR73632 (D-Ala-[L-Pro9,Me-Leu8]substance P-(7-11))-induced foot tapping in gerbils was employed as an indirect measure of brain penetration and this was compared with their ability to prevent acute emesis induced by cisplatin in ferrets. (+)-GR203040 ((2S,3S and 2R,3R)-2-methoxy-5-tetrazol-1-yl-benzyl-(2-phenyl-piperidin- 3-yl)-amine), CP-99,994 ((2S,3S)-cis-3-(2-methoxybenzylamino)-2-phenyl piperidine) dihydrochloride), and L-742,694 (2-(S)-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzyloxy)-3-(S)-phenyl-4-(5-(3-oxo-1,2, 4-triazolo)methylmorpholine) potently inhibited GR73632-induced foot tapping (ID50 &lt; or = 0.85 mg/kg), and acute retching induced by cisplatin (ID50 &lt; or = 0.18 mg/kg). RPR100893 ((3aS,4S,7aS)-7,7-diphenyl-4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-2-[(S)-2-(2-m ethoxyphenyl)proprionyl] perhydroisoindol-4-ol) was not a potent antagonist of retching (ID50 4.1 mg/kg) or foot tapping (ID50 &gt; 10 mg/kg). High doses (3-10 mg/kg) of CGP49823 ((2R,4S)-2-benzyl-1-(3,5-dimethylbenzoyl)-N-[(4-quinolinyl)methyl] -4-piperineamine) dihydrochloride), FK888 (N2-[(4R)-4-hydroxy-1-(1-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)carbonyl-L-propyl]-N-methy l-N-phenylmethyl-L-3-(2-naphthyl)-alaninamide), and LY303870 ((R)-1-[N-(2-methoxybenzyl)acetylamino]-3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-[N-(2-(4-(pi peridinyl)piperidin-1-yl)acetyl)amino]propane) were required to inhibit foot tapping; these agents were not anti-emetic in this dose range. SR140333 ((S)-1-[2-[3-(3,4-dichlorphenyl)-1 (3-isopropoxyphenylacetyl)piperidin-3-yl] ethyl]-4-phenyl-1 azaniabicyclo [2.2.2]octane; 3-10 mg/kg) failed to inhibit foot tapping or emesis. Affinities for the human and ferret tachykinin NK1 receptor were highly correlated (r = 0.93, P = 0.0008). Inhibition of foot tapping in gerbils, but not NK1 receptor binding affinity, predicted anti-emetic activity in ferrets (r = 0.75, P &lt; 0.01). These findings confirm that the anti-emetic activity of tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonists is dependent on brain penetration.
Dopamine metabolism, as reflected by the concentration of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), in the medial prefrontal cortex was significantly increased following 30 min immobilisation stress or systemic administration of the benzodiazepine/GABA(A) receptor inverse agonist methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (DMCM). The response to stress was attenuated by pretreatment of rats with the benzodiazepine/GABA(A) receptor agonists diazepam and zolpidem. Furthermore, pretreatment with R-(+)-3-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolid-2-one (R-(+)-HA-966), a low efficacy partial agonist, and 7-chloro-4-hydroxy-3(3-phenoxy) phenylquinolin-2-(H)-one (L-701,324) a novel, high affinity, full antagonist at the glycine/NMDA receptor attenuated the response to both stress and DMCM. These results demonstrate that antagonists at the glycine/NMDA receptor complex are comparable with benzodiazepine/GABA(A) receptor agonists in their ability to prevent activation of the mesocortical dopamine system by stress and GABA(A) receptor inverse agonists. Results are discussed in relation to the interaction between glycine/NMDA receptor antagonists, the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system and stress related disorders.
Lithium sensitive myo-inositol monophosphatase (IMPase) is a pivotal enzyme which controls the levels of brain inositol within the inositol-based signaling system. Its capacity to release free myo-inositol from inositol monophosphates generated from receptor-linked and de novo pathways is crucial to the maintenance of appropriate amounts of intracellular myo-inositol, which is essential for both inositol-based cell signaling and cell volume control. We present here the full length cDNA encompassing the coding and untranslated regions (5'- and 3'-UTRs) of rat brain IMPase. This cDNA was derived from rat cortex mRNA by the RT-PCR technique. Analysis of this cDNA revealed several interesting features which include a short 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) of 68 nucleotides followed by coding region of approximately 0.8 kb and a long 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of 1.2 kb. Both 5'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends (5'-RACE) and 3'-RACE techniques were carried out to isolate both UTRs and double stranded sequencing was carried out to its entirety (approximately 2.1 kb) by 'gene walking' using several oligonucleotide primers. All nucleotides were sequenced unambiguously using the sense and antisense strands of DNA. PCR analysis for the coding region and the deduced amino acid sequence demonstrated a DNA fragment of 831 bp and 277 amino acids, respectively, which are strikingly similar to human hippocampal IMPase. The 5'-UTR demonstrated distinct CpG doublets, characteristic of 'housekeeping' genes. The sequence around the initiator methionine, AAGATGG, conforms well to the Kozak consensus sequence for mammalian protein biosynthesis and the 3'-UTR demonstrated three canonical (AATAAT, AATTAA, AATACA) and one unusual polyadenylation signals (ATTAAA) followed by a 31 base poly(A) tail. The presence of a CCTGTG in the 3'-UTR (putative carbohydrate response element) links IMPase mRNA to brain carbohydrate metabolic pathways. Computer analyses demonstrated several unique features of this mRNA, including the potential formation of hairpin loops which might be important in its intracellular regulation and turn-over. In summary, this lithium-sensitive brain IMPase mRNA has the following characteristics: a 5'-CpG-rich short untranslated segment, a highly conserved coding region, and a long 3'-untranslated region with several polyadenylation signals.
Taurine, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-like acidic amino acid, has previously been shown to be prominently localized to astrocytes in the supraoptic nucleus, the neurons of which contain only small amounts, and to have inhibitory actions on supraoptic neuronal activity. In the present study, taurine distribution in the neurohypophysis was determined by using a well-characterized monoclonal antibody against taurine itself. Preembedding immunohistochemistry was performed at light and electron microscopic levels by using diaminobenzidine and gold-substituted silver-intensified peroxidase (GSSP) methods. At the light microscopic level, the distribution pattern and cellular localization of taurine immunoreactivity corresponded to that of glial fibrillary acidic protein. Pituicyte cell bodies and processes displayed dense taurine immunoreactivity. Electron microscopic observations revealed strong taurine GSSP reactions in these neural lobe astrocytes, but weak taurine reactivity was seen within only some neurosecretory axons. High-performance liquid chromatography analyses demonstrated that in vitro hypoosmotic stimulation (reduction of 40 mOsm/kg) of isolated posterior pituitaries resulted in preferential increases in taurine release into the bathing medium without increased release of other amino acids. Conversely, tissue concentrations of taurine significantly decreased with hypoosmotic perfusion, while glutamate, glutamine, and GABA concentrations were not reduced. These results indicate that taurine is mainly concentrated in neurohypophysial astrocytes, which are known to engulf the neurosecretory axonal processes and terminals. Taurine released from pituicytes under basal and hypoosmotic conditions may act to suppress axon terminal depolarization and thereby depress release of neurohypophysial peptides.
The objective of this study was to asses the response of the microtubule-associated protein tau to acute rise in the concentration of free cytoplasmic calcium ([Ca2+]i) in rat cortical neurons and mouse cerebellar granule cells in culture. One-hour exposure to glutamate (100 microM), N-methyl-D-aspartate (100 microM), KCl (50 mM), and ionomycin (5 microM) led to tau protein dephosphorylation as indicated by an appearance of additional faster moving bands on Western immunoblots with a phosphorylation-independent antibody and an increase in the tau-1 immunoreactivity associated with the appearance of an additional faster moving band. Lowering the extracellular concentration of Ca2+ to less than 1 microM fully prevented the drug-induced tau protein dephosphorylation indicating a dependence on Ca2+ influx from the extracellular environment. Administration of okadaic acid (inhibitor of phosphatase 1/2A) simultaneously with the above mentioned drugs decreased the drug-mediated dephosphorylation. Pre-incubation with okadaic acid fully prevented the dephosphorylation. Treatment with cypermethrin (inhibitor of phosphatase 2B) was without effect when administered either alone, simultaneously with the drugs, or pre-incubated. These findings indicate that, independently of the influx pathway, [Ca2+]i elevation leads to dephosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein tau and implicate phosphatase 1 and/or 2A in the process.
Neurofilament (NF) proteins are intermediate filaments found in the neuronal cytoskeleton. Phosphorylation of these proteins is considered an important factor in the assembly of filaments and determination of filament caliber and stability. Mammalian neurofilaments are composed of three polypeptide subunits, NF-L, NF-M, and NF-H, all of which are phosphorylated. Here we used techniques for the mass spectrometric sequencing of proteins from polyacrylamide gels to analyze in vivo phosphorylation sites on NF-M and NF-L. Neurofilaments were isolated from rat brain and enzymatically digested in gel. The resulting peptides were analyzed and sequence data obtained by nanoelectrospray mass spectrometry. Four phosphorylation sites have been found in the C-terminal domain of NF-M: serines 603, 608, 666, and 766. Two of these are found in lysine-serine-proline (KSP) motifs and two in the variant motifs, glutamic acid-serine-proline (ESP) and valine-serine-proline (VSP). Serine 55 in NF-L was not found to be phosphorylated, which confirms the possible role of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of this site in early neurofilament assembly. The techniques used enable sequence data and characterization of posttranslational modifications to be obtained for each individual subunit directly from polyacrylamide gels.
A practically unbiased stereological method to obtain estimates of the volume and total length of nerve fibers in brain white matter is described. The sampling scheme is designed so that the majority of brain white matter is left intact, thus providing the possibility for resampling and further analysis. Uniform sampling of one complete hemispherical white matter is performed. The volume fraction of nerve fibers in white matter is estimated by point counting. The total length of nerve fibers was estimated from the product of the volume of white matter, obtained with the Cavalieri principle, and the fiber length density, obtained from the isotropic, uniform random sections which were ensured by the isector. The size of nerve fibers was derived by measuring the profile diameter perpendicular to its longest axis. The influence of the postmortem fixation delay on nerve fiber parameters was investigated in one dog and one pig. The criteria for identification of nerve fiber profiles at light microscopy were evaluated using electron microscopy.
Double-labelling immunocytochemical techniques are important for revealing synaptic connections between different populations of neurons within the central nervous system. This article describes a new method in which confocal laser scanning microscopy and electron microscopy are performed on the same Vibratome section which has been processed for immunocytochemistry. Two or three primary antibodies are initially detected with fluorescent secondary antibodies and observed with the confocal microscope. The primary antibodies are then revealed by an immunoperoxidase technique (with diaminobenzidine), and the material is prepared for electron microscopy. By comparing the resulting electron micrographs with the images acquired from the confocal microscope, it is possible to recognise each immunoreactive structure seen with the electron microscope in the original confocal images, and therefore to determine which type(s) of immunoreactivity each structure contains. This method has been used to demonstrate that some neurons in the spinal dorsal horn which possess the neurokinin-1 receptor receive axosomatic synapses from boutons that contain substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide.
A method is described which enables the spatial pattern of discrete objects in histological sections of brain tissue to be determined. The method can be applied to cell bodies, sections of blood vessels or the characteristic lesions which develop in the brain of patients with neurodegenerative disorders. The density of the histological feature under study is measured in a series of contiguous sample fields arranged in a grid or transect. Data from adjacent sample fields are added together to provide density data for larger field sizes. A plot of the variance/mean ratio (V/M) of the data versus field size reveals whether the objects are distributed randomly, uniformly or in clusters. If the objects are clustered, the analysis determines whether the clusters are randomly or regularly distributed and the mean size of the clusters. In addition, if two different histological features are clustered, the analysis can determine whether their clusters are in phase, out of phase or unrelated to each other. To illustrate the method, the spatial patterns of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles were studied in histological sections of brain tissue from patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Perivascular nerves supplying human arteries can be visualised after immunohistochemical staining for a variety of markers. The pattern and density of perivascular nerves vary with region, age and disease. Quantification of the nerve plexus, which may be performed by image analysis, is a prerequisite to assess differences in nerve density. The use of epi-fluorescence microscopy (EFM) presents difficulties in visualising the nerve plexus in certain tissues, which can affect the reliability with which specific staining can be localised and distinguished from non-specific staining. In this study, confocal scanning laser microscopy (CSLM) was used in parallel with EFM, in order to compare images from both techniques. In a comparison of identical areas of nerve plexuses of human mesenteric and coronary arteries stained for protein gene product (PGP) 9.5 and imaged using CSLM and EFM, higher values for area percent (area occupied by nerves), and intercept density (ID/mm, which reflects the number of nerve bundles detected) were found in CSLM images. Similar comparisons of unmatched epi-fluorescence and confocal images from a group of 45 mesenteric arteries revealed no significant difference for area percent, but significantly higher values for ID/mm in CSLM images. These findings illustrate that the better image quality in CSLM influences image analysis and can be very useful in studies of dynamic changes in nerve plexuses. We recommend CSLM for tissues that suffer from high background staining, such as human mesenteric and coronary arteries.
The aim of this work was to develop a simple and reproducible method of dissociation of cochlear spiral ganglion neurons in the rat. This technique, wich was developed in 5 day-old rat pups, was based on the use of a single enzyme, thermolysin. It is easy to set up and allows the collection of a large amount of neurons. These isolated neurons were kept in a definite, serum free culture medium up to 7 days. Neurons were characterized both by standard morphological criteria and by using a specific neuronal marker (anti-neurofilament 200 kD) after 2 h and 7 days in culture. Cell viability, assessed by fluorescent dyes indicated that all isolated cells were healthy even after 7 days in vitro. The dissociation and culture methods were found very satisfactory and can be easily adapted to any kind of experiment requiring isolated spiral ganglion neurons.
Glucocorticoids and dopamine (DA) may affect brain development and permanently programme central nervous system (CNS) responses. The ontogeny of the striatal glucocorticoid receptor (GR) mRNA and of DA D1, D2 and D3 receptor subtype mRNAs were, therefore, studied by means of in situ hybridization techniques. The expression of GR and the dopamine D3 receptor mRNAs but not of DA D1 and D2 receptor subtype mRNAs were observed in the striatal neuroepithelium during all prenatal stages studied (E14.5-E20.5). These results suggest that GR may directly influence striatal developmental processes, possibly involving the dopamine D3 receptor.
The survival of developing sensory neurons is dependent upon target-derived growth factors, in their absence neurons undergo programmed cell death. The molecular mechanisms underpinning neuronal cell survival and death are poorly understood. Tyrosine kinases are important signalling proteins that have been implicated in both cell survival and death. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of tyrosine kinase inhibition on embryonic chick sensory neuronal survival using the tyrosine kinase inhibitors, herbimycin, genistein and tyrphostin. In low concentrations of nerve growth factor, NGF (100 fg/ml), the majority of neurons die, however neuronal survival was significantly potentiated in the presence of each of the tyrosine kinase inhibitors, herbimycin (40 ng/ml), genistein (2.5 microM) and tyrphostin (8 microM). In the presence of each of these inhibitors, sensory neurons exhibited typical phase bright morphology and fibre outgrowth was increased. These results demonstrate that the tyrosine kinase inhibitors support the survival of neurons in the presence of low concentrations of NGF. Herbimycin was used at lower concentrations than previously reported, and at this concentration it has been shown to be noncytotoxic in animals. Therefore it will be important to determine if herbimycin can be used as a therapeutic agent for enhancing nerve regeneration following injury.
Previous studies have shown that electrical stimulation of the sensorimotor cortex (SMC) induces responses of the autonomic nervous system such as variations in heart rate and arterial pressure. Neuroanatomical studies have shown the existence of monosynaptic projections from the SMC to the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) and the dorsal nucleus of the vagus nerve (DNV), which are bulbar nuclei involved in cardiovascular control. The aim of the present study was to establish whether there exists a functional connectivity between the SMC and these nuclei. Electrical stimulation applied to the SMC of 7 rats for 1 h induced the expression of c-fos-protein-like immunoreactivity in the nucleus of some neurons in NTS, RVLM and DNV. These data support the view that the SMC has functional connections with bulbar neurons involved in cardiovascular control.
Previous investigations have supported or indicated a stimulatory role of the insulin-like growth factor II gene (IGF2) in hepatocarcinogenesis. We have studied the transcript levels, promoter usage, and imprinting status of the ICF2 gene and its relationship to H19 in human hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) and liver tumor cell lines. The activity of the IGF2 promoter P1 was lost in about 70% of the cases (18 of 25). This is the most prominent abnormality regarding the IGF2 regulation in this study. Total IGF2 as well as promoter P3 transcription were up-regulated in a small group of the tumors. Twenty genetically informative cases were obtained from 26 cases, thus excluding the probability of loss of heterozygosity of the IGF2 gene. Among these, nine showed abnormal monoallelic expression of IGF2. One HCC and one HCC cell line proved loss of functional imprinting of IGF2. H19 and IGF2 were regulated in parallel, and expression levels were variable. Taken together, the disruption of the IGF2 promoter regulation, particularly the loss of P1 activity, is a common feature of human HCCs. The loss of P1 activity explains the frequent loss of biallelic IGF2 expression and may potentially be used as a diagnostic or monitoring marker for human HCC.
The actions of D-myo-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) and D-myo-inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphospate (IP4) on small chloride (SCl) channels from rabbit skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum are reported. We find that the inositol polyphosphates (6-40 microM) are potent reversible blockers of SCl channels in lipid bilayers at -40 mV with &gt;10(-5) m cis (cytoplasmic) Ca2+ when added to the cis, but not trans, chamber. IP3 or IP4 at 20 microM reduced the mean open time from 89 +/- 16 msec to 11 +/- 2 msec or to 8.0 +/- 1.0 msec respectively, by abolishing the longest time constant component in the open time distribution. Neither IP3 nor IP4 altered the six single-channel conductance levels. The fraction of low conductance events increased approximately 4-fold and the dwell time at the lower conductance levels increased approximately 3-fold. Channel gating was altered so that most transitions were between the closed level and an open level, in contrast to control channels which remained open for long periods with many transitions between the six open levels. The actions of the inositol polyphosphates were: (1) not prevented by 20 microg/ml cis heparin (an IP3 receptor blocker); (2) mimicked by 10 microM cis synthetic inositol polyphosphates, L-chiro-inositol 1,4,6-trisphosphate and L-chiro-inositol 1,4,6-trisphosphorothionate (which do not bind to IP3 receptors); (3) mimicked by cis additions of the polyanions heparin or hepran (20 microg/ml each) and vanadate (500 microM). The results suggest that an interaction between polyanions and SCl channels would allow the channels to be modulated in vivo by inositol polyphosphates.
It is well known, that in mammalian small intestine, cAMP increases Cl- permeability of the apical membrane of enterocytes as part of its secretory action. Paradoxically, this is usually accompanied by an increase of the transepithelial resistance. In the present study we report that in the presence of bumetanide (to block basolateral Cl- uptake) cAMP always decreased the transepithelial resistance. We examined whether this decrease in resistance was due to a cAMP-dependent increase of the paracellular electrolyte permeability in addition to the increase of the Cl- permeability of the apical cell membrane. We used diffusion potentials induced by serosal replacement of NaCl, and transepithelial current passage to evoke transport number effects. The results revealed that cAMP (but not carbachol) could increase the Cl- permeability of the tight junctions in rat ileum. Moreover, we observed a variation in transepithelial resistance of individual tissue preparations, inversely related to the cation selectivity of the tissue, suggesting that Na+ permeability of the tight junctions can vary between preparations.
The sensory encoding of the duration, interval, and order of different stimulus features provides vital information to the nervous system. The present study focuses on the influence of practice on auditory temporal-interval discrimination. The goals of the experiment were to determine (1) whether practice improved the ability to discriminate a standard interval of 100 msec bounded by brief 1 kHz tones from longer intervals, and, if so, (2) whether this improvement generalized to different tonal frequencies or temporal intervals. Learning was examined in 14 human subjects using an adaptive, two-alternative, forced-choice procedure. One hour of training per day for 10 d led to marked improvements in the ability to discriminate between the standard and longer intervals. The generalization of learning was evaluated by independently varying the spectral (tonal frequency) and temporal (interval) components of the stimuli in four conditions tested both before and after the training phase. Remarkably, there was complete generalization to the trained interval of 100 msec bounded by tones at the untrained frequency of 4 kHz, but no generalization to the untrained intervals of 50, 200, or 500 msec bounded by tones at the trained frequency of 1 kHz. Thus, these data show that (1) temporal-interval discrimination using a 100-msec standard undergoes perceptual learning, and (2) the neural mechanisms underlying this learning are temporally, but not spectrally, specific. These results are compared with those from previous investigations of learning in visual spatial tasks, and are discussed in relation to biologically plausible models of temporal processing.
Alcohol dependence (alcoholism) is accompanied by evidence of tolerance, withdrawal (physiological dependence), or compulsive behavior related to alcohol use. Studies of strain and individual differences using animal models for acute physiological dependence liability are useful means to identify potential genetic determinants of liability in humans. Behavioral and quantitative trait analyses were conducted using animal models for high risk versus resistance to acute physiological dependence. Using a two-step genetic mapping strategy, loci on mouse chromosomes 1, 4, and 11 were mapped that contain genes that influence alcohol withdrawal severity. In the aggregate, these three risk markers accounted for 68% of the genetic variability in alcohol withdrawal. Candidate genes in proximity to the chromosome 11 locus include genes encoding the alpha1, alpha6, and gamma2 subunits of type-A receptors for the inhibitory neurotransmitter, GABA. In addition, suggestive linkage is indicated for two loci on mouse chromosome 2, one near Gad1 encoding glutamic acid decarboxylase, and the other near the El2 locus which influences the seizure phenotype in the neurological mutant strain El. The present analyses detect and map some of the loci that increase risk to develop physiological dependence and may facilitate identification of genes related to the development of alcoholism. Syntenic conservation between human and mouse chromosomes suggests that human homologs of genes that increase risk for physiological dependence may localize to 1q21-q32, 2q24-q37/11p13, 9p21-p23/1p32-p22.1, and 5q32-q35.
The sound of birdsong activates robust gene expression in the caudomedial neostriatum (NCM) of songbirds. To assess the function of this genomic response, we analyzed the temporal and quantitative relationships between electrophysiological activity and gene induction. Single units in zebra finch NCM showed large increases in firing in response to birdsong, whereas simple auditory tones tended to inhibit firing. Most cells showed little selectivity for individual songs based on total number of spikes produced. When a novel song stimulus was repeated, the cells rapidly modulated their firing rates so that the first response to a stimulus was markedly higher than consecutive responses. Even after many repetitions of a particular song, cells continued to fire in response to that stimulus, unlike the complete &quot;habituation&quot; observed previously for genomic activity. The initial modulation of the response to a particular song disappeared, however, once that song was repeated for 200 trials ( approximately 34 min). These results indicate a dissociation between gross physiological activity and &quot;immediate early&quot; gene expression: genomic activity occurs only during a subset of electrophysiological responses. We propose a model in which nuclear responses in NCM are modulated by pathways distinct from the primary auditory inputs to NCM. This would account for the changing selectivity of the genomic response and implies an active role for the cell nucleus as an integrating agent in the physiological operation of neural circuits.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), the most potent trophic factor yet described for both dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra and spinal motorneurons, has recently been shown to signal through a multireceptor complex composed of a novel glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored GDNF receptor-alpha (GDNFR-alpha) and the receptor tyrosine kinase product of the c-ret proto-oncogene (RET). Despite its importance, the individual expression patterns and the relationships between domains of expression of the different components of this trophic system are not understood. We show here by in situ hybridization that GDNF mRNA is expressed in the normal adult rat brain in several targets of substantia nigra neurons, including striatum, nucleus accumbens, thalamic nuclei, olfactory tubercle, hippocampus, cerebellum, and cingulate cortex as well as in the internal granular cell layer of the olfactory bulb. Within the basal ganglia we observe a pronounced segregation of regions expressing GDNF from those expressing GDNF receptors, suggesting that within these structures GDNF is functioning in its anticipated role as a target-derived trophic factor. In addition, the expression of GDNF and both GDNF receptors within the cerebellum, hippocampus, and olfactory bulb may indicate a paracrine mode of action. Importantly, we also see expression of RET mRNA in cellular populations within the cerebellum and the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb, as well as in the subthalamic nucleus, which lack GDNFR-alpha expression, indicating that RET functions either independently of GDNFR-alpha or with GDNFR-alpha presented in trans. Conversely, GDNFR-alpha is widely expressed in many regions in which RET expression is absent, suggesting that GDNFR-alpha may associate with additional signaling receptors. Finally, RET and GDNFR-alpha show distinct patterns of regulated expression in the brain after kainic acid stimulation and in the sciatic nerve after nerve transection. Taken together these findings indicate that GDNF, RET, and GDNFR-alpha utilize multiple mechanisms to comprise physiologically relevant trophic circuits for different neuronal populations.
Neuronal calcium loading attributable to hypoxic/ischemic injury is believed to trigger neurotoxicity. We examined in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures whether artificially and reversibly enhancing the Ca2+ buffering capacity of neurons reduces the neurotoxic sequelae of oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), whether such manipulation has neurotoxic potential, and whether the mechanism underlying these effects is pre- or postsynaptic. Neurodegeneration caused over 24 hr by 60 min of OGD was triggered largely by NMDA receptor activation and was attenuated temporarily by pretreating the slices with cell-permeant Ca2+ buffers such as 1, 2 bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetic acid acetoxymethyl ester (BAPTA-AM). This pretreatment produced a transient, reversible increase in intracellular buffer content as demonstrated autoradiographically using slices loaded with 14C-BAPTA-AM and by confocal imaging of slices loaded with the BAPTA-AM analog calcium green-acetoxymethyl ester (AM). The time courses of 14C-BAPTA retention and of neuronal survival after OGD were identical, indicating that increased buffer content is necessary for the observed protective effect. Protection by Ca2+ buffering originated presynaptically because BAPTA-AM was ineffective when endogenous transmitter release was bypassed by directly applying NMDA to the cultures, and because pretreatment with the low Ca2+ affinity buffer 2-aminophenol-N,N,O-triacetic acid acetoxymethyl ester, which attenuates excitatory transmitter release, attenuated neurodegeneration. Thus, in cultured hippocampal slices, enhancing neuronal Ca2+ buffering unequivocally attenuates or delays the onset of anoxic neurodegeneration, likely by attenuating the synaptic release of endogenous excitatory neurotransmitters (excitotoxicity).
There are multiple isoforms of the Na,K-ATPase in the nervous system, three isoforms of the alpha subunit, and at least two of the beta subunit. The alpha subunit is the catalytic subunit. The beta subunit has several roles. It is required for enzyme assembly, it has been implicated in neuron-glia adhesion, and the experimental exchange of beta subunit isoforms modifies enzyme kinetics, implying that it affects functional properties. Here we describe the specificities of antibodies against the Na,K-ATPase beta subunit isoforms beta1 and beta2. These antibodies, along with antibodies against the alpha subunit isoforms, were used to stain sections of the rat cerebellum and cultures of cerebellar granule cells to ascertain expression and subcellular distribution in identifiable cells. Comparison of alpha and beta isoform distribution with double-label staining demonstrated that there was no preferential association of particular alpha subunits with particular beta subunits, nor was there an association with excitatory or inhibitory neurotransmission modes. Isoform composition differences were seen when Purkinje, basket, and granule cells were compared. Whether beta1 and beta2 are specific for neurons and glia, respectively, has been controversial, but expression of both beta subunit types was seen here in granule cells. In rat cerebellar astrocytes, in sections and in culture, alpha2 expression was prominent, yet the expression of either beta subunit was low in comparison. The complexity of Na,K-ATPase isoform distribution underscores the subtlety of its regulation and physiological role in excitable cells.
Drugs that stimulate dopamine and glutamate receptors have been shown to induce the expression of AP-1 proteins (such as c-Fos and c-Jun) in the striatum and to induce binding of these proteins to AP-1 sites on DNA, leading to the hypothesis that AP-1-mediated transcription contributes to the long-term effects of these drugs. To examine this hypothesis, we compared the regulation of AP-1-mediated transcription to the inductions of AP-1-binding activity and genes encoding AP-1 proteins in primary cultures of striatal neurons. Although glutamate, dopamine, and forskolin (an activator of adenylate cyclase) all induce c-fos mRNA and AP-1 binding, we found, surprisingly, that only glutamate induces transcription of a transfected AP-1-driven fusion gene. To explore the basis for this discrepancy, we investigated the possibility that the phosphorylation of c-Jun may also be required for AP-1-mediated transcription in striatal neurons. Glutamate, but neither dopamine nor forskolin, raises the levels of phosphorylated c-Jun as well as the activity of a Jun kinase (SAPK/JNK) in striatal cultures. Both the glutamatergic induction of AP-1-mediated transcription and activation of SAPK/JNK appear to be mediated, at least in part, via NMDA receptors. In striatal neurons, the phosphorylation of AP-1 proteins produced by glutamate may be required to convert AP-1 protein expression and binding to transcriptional activation.
Serotonin (5HT) transporters (SERTs) couple to existing ion gradients to transport 5HT into presynaptic terminals. In mammalian SERTs, the transport cycle is reported as electroneutral, with a translocation of zero net charge, and 5HT uptake is independent of membrane voltage. Yet mammalian SERTs exhibit 5HT-induced currents, and Drosophila SERTs (dSERTs) show voltage-dependent uptake. Thus, the relationship between uptake and current remains controversial; furthermore, the number of 5HT molecules translocated per ion channel event is unknown. To investigate this, we have used heterologous expression of cloned dSERTs to measure 5HT flux and dSERT currents concurrently under voltage clamp, and we have used fluctuation analysis to measure the size of the elementary ionic events in the same cells. RNA-injected Xenopus oocytes accumulate 5HT, and paroxetine or desipramine inhibit this uptake. RNA-injected oocytes also display paroxetine-sensitive 5HT-induced currents and 5HT-independent leak currents. Na replacement decreases the uptake and the induced currents. 5HT-induced current and 5HT uptake both increase at negative potentials, where 5HT carries approximately 5% of the induced current. Recently, several groups have reported similar phenomena for other transporters, in which transmitter-induced currents exceed the predictions of coupled transport. We now provide evidence that in dSERT, approximately 500 5HT molecules are translocated per channel opening, which, at -20 mV, carries approximately 10,000 electronic charges. These data support a model in which 500 SERT cycles occur for each 5HT-induced channel opening or a model in which 500 5HT molecules and 10,000 electronic charges pass through a common pore.
We have previously used antibodies to the NG2 proteoglycan and the alpha receptor for platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF alpha receptor) to identify oligodendroglial progenitor cells in vivo and in vitro. It has recently become evident that the GD3 antigen, which has been widely used as a marker for oligodendrocyte progenitor cells, is also expressed by microglial cells. In this study we have examined the relationship between the NG2+/PDGF alpha receptor+ glial progenitor cells and microglial cells in normal developing and mature rat brain and in inflammatory lesions in mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Double-labeling of sections from normal rat brain using anti-NG2 antibodies and lectin from Griffonia simplicifolia (GSA I-B4) or monoclonal antibody 4H1 indicated that there is no overlap between NG2+ glial progenitor cells and microglia in the parenchyma of the central nervous system. In EAE lesions, both NG2+ cells and microglia, identified by antibodies to F4/80 and CD45, displayed reactive changes characterized by increased cell number and staining intensity and shortening and thickening of cell processes. Both cell types were found surrounding perivascular infiltrates of lymphocytes. Double-labeling EAE sections for NG2 and F4/80 or CD45 failed to reveal cells that co-expressed both antigens, suggesting that reactive NG2+ cells are distinct from activated microglia. However, a close spatial relationship between NG2+ cells and microglia was observed in the normal brain and to a greater extent in EAE, where processes of an activated microglial cell were sometimes seen to encircle an NG2+ cell. These observations are indicative of a functional interaction between microglia and the NG2+ glial cells.
Marr's proposal for the functioning of the neocortex (Marr, 1970) is the least known of his various theories for specific neural circuitries. He suggested that the neocortex learns by self-organization to extract the structure from the patterns of activity incident upon it. He proposed a feedforward neural network in which the connections to the output cells (identified with the pyramidal cells of the neocortex) are modified by a mechanism of competitive learning. It was intended that each output cell comes to be selective for the input patterns from a different class and is able to respond to new patterns from the same class that have not been seen before. The learning rule that Marr proposed was underspecified, but a logical extension of the basic idea results in a synaptic learning rule in which the total amount of synaptic strength of the connections from each input (&quot;presynaptic&quot;) cell is kept at a constant level. In contrast, conventional competitive learning involves rules of the &quot;postsynaptic&quot; type. The network learns by exploiting the structure that Marr assumed to exist within the ensemble of input patterns. For this case, analysis is possible that extends that carried out by Marr, which was restricted to the binary classification task. This analysis is presented here, together with results from computer simulations of different types of competitive learning mechanisms. The presynaptic mechanism is best known in the computational neuroscience literature. In neural network applications, it may be a more suitable mechanism of competitive learning than those normally considered.
The functional expression of homo-oligomeric alpha7 neuronal nicotinic and type 3 serotonin receptors is dependent on the activity of a cyclophilin. In this paper we demonstrate that the mechanism of cyclophilin action during functional homo-oligomeric receptor expression in Xenopus oocytes is distinct from the calcineurin-dependent immunosuppressive mechanism by showing that a nonimmunosuppressive analog of cyclosporin A (CsA), SDZ 211-811, reduces functional receptor expression to the same extent as CsA. The cytoplasmic subtype of cyclophilin, cyclophilin A (CyPA), appears to be required for functional receptor expression. This is because overexpression of CyPA and a CyPA mutant that is deficient in CsA binding activity reverses CsA-induced reduction in functional receptor expression. The mechanism of action of CyPA is likely to involve its prolyl isomerase activity because a mutant CyPA with a single amino acid substitution (arginine 55 to alanine) that is predicted to produce a 1000-fold attenuation in isomerase activity fails to reverse the cyclosporin A effect. Our data also suggest that CyPA does not form a stable complex with receptor subunits.
Fragile X syndrome arises from blocked expression of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Golgi-impregnated mature cerebral cortex from fragile X patients exhibits long, thin, tortuous postsynaptic spines resembling spines observed during normal early neocortical development. Here we describe dendritic spines in Golgi-impregnated cerebral cortex of transgenic fragile X gene (Fmr1) knockout mice that lack expression of the protein. Dendritic spines on apical dendrites of layer V pyramidal cells in occipital cortex of fragile X knockout mice were longer than those in wild-type mice and were often thin and tortuous, paralleling the human syndrome and suggesting that FMRP expression is required for normal spine morphological development. Moreover, spine density along the apical dendrite was greater in the knockout mice, which may reflect impaired developmental organizational processes of synapse stabilization and elimination or pruning.
Null mutations at the misato locus of Drosophila melanogaster are associated with irregular chromosomal segregation at cell division. The consequences for morphogenesis are that mutant larvae are almost devoid of imaginal disk tissue, have a reduction in brain size, and die before the late third-instar larval stage. To analyze these findings, we isolated cDNAs in and around the misato locus, mapped the breakpoints of chromosomal deficiencies, determined which transcript corresponded to the misato gene, rescued the cell division defects in transgenic organisms, and sequenced the genomic DNA. Database searches revealed that misato codes for a novel protein, the N-terminal half of which contains a mixture of peptide motifs found in alpha-, beta-, and gamma-tubulins, as well as a motif related to part of the myosin heavy chain proteins. The sequence characteristics of misato indicate either that it arose from an ancestral tubulin-like gene, different parts of which underwent convergent evolution to resemble motifs in the conventional tubulins, or that it arose by the capture of motifs from different tubulin genes. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome lacks a true homolog of the misato gene, and this finding highlights the emerging problem of assigning functional attributes to orphan genes that occur only in some evolutionary lineages.
Pathogenic mutations in presenilin 1 (PS1) are associated with approximately 50% of early-onset familial Alzheimer disease. PS1 is endoproteolytically cleaved to yield a 30-kDa N-terminal fragment (NTF) and an 18-kDa C-terminal fragment (CTF). Using COS7 cells transfected with human PS1, we have found that phorbol 12, 13-dibutyrate and forskolin increase the state of phosphorylation of serine residues of the human CTF. Phosphorylation of the human CTF resulted in a shift in electrophoretic mobility from a single major species of 18 kDa to a doublet of 20-23 kDa. This mobility shift was also observed with human PS1 that had been transfected into mouse neuroblastoma (N2a) cells. Treatment of the phosphorylated CTF doublet with phage lambda protein phosphatase eliminated the 20- to 23-kDa doublet while enhancing the 18-kDa species, consistent with the interpretation that the electrophoretic mobility shift was due to the addition of phosphate to the 18-kDa species. The NTF and CTF eluted from a gel filtration column at an estimated mass of over 100 kDa, suggesting that these fragments exist as an oligomerized species. Upon phosphorylation of the PS1 CTF, the apparent mass of the NTF- or CTF-containing oligomers was unchanged. Thus, the association of PS1 fragments may be maintained during cycles of phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of the PS1 CTF.
Steroids produced locally in brain (neurosteroids), including dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), influence cognition and behavior. We previously described a novel cytochrome P450, Cyp7b, strongly expressed in rat and mouse brain, particularly in hippocampus. Cyp7b is most similar to steroidogenic P450s and potentially could play a role in neurosteroid metabolism. To examine the catalytic activity of the enzyme mouse Cyp7b cDNA was introduced into a vaccinia virus vector. Extracts from cells infected with the recombinant showed NADPH-dependent conversion of DHEA (Km, 13.6 microM) and pregnenolone (Km, 4.0 microM) to slower migrating forms on thin layer chromatography. The expressed enzyme was less active against 25-hydroxycholesterol, 17beta-estradiol and 5alpha-androstane-3beta,17beta-diol, with low to undetectable activity against progesterone, corticosterone, and testosterone. On gas chromatography and mass spectrometry of the Cyp7b metabolite of DHEA the retention time and fragmentation patterns were identical to those obtained with authentic 7alpha-hydroxy DHEA. The reaction product also comigrated on thin layer chromatography with 7alpha-hydroxy DHEA but not with 7beta-hydroxy DHEA; when [7alpha-3H]pregnenolone was incubated with Cyp7b extracts the extent of release of radioactivity into the medium suggested that hydroxylation was preferentially at the 7alpha position. Brain extracts also efficiently liberated tritium from [7alpha-3H]pregnenolone and converted DHEA to a product with a chromatographic mobility indistinguishable from 7alpha-hydroxy DHEA. We conclude that Cyp7b is a 7alpha-hydroxylase participating in the synthesis, in brain, of neurosteroids 7alpha-hydroxy DHEA, and 7alpha-hydroxy pregnenolone.
In addition to its well-known interaction with ionotropic and metabotropic receptors, glutamate may, at high concentrations, interfere with a cystine-glutamate antiport designated as Xc- and lead to a significant decrease in cystine uptake and intracellular glutathione level. These effects, in turn, may induce death in various cellular bodies including astrocytes, rat glioma cells and cortical neurons in culture. In the present paper we demonstrate that the toxicity evoked by glutamate in a neuronal-like model is indeed related to the metabolism of glutathione since glutamate toxicity is preceded by a significant depletion of intracellular glutathione and is abolished in the presence of precursors of glutathione synthesis such as cystine and N-acetylcysteine. It also appears that prolonged incubation in cystine-free medium leads to cell detachment and death, a phenomenon which is progressively abolished in the presence of increasing concentrations of cystine. In addition, buthionine sulfoximine, a known inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, also induces cell lysis with a time-course very similar to that of glutamate. However, depletion of glutathione is probably not sufficient to trigger the death signal since cycloheximide, which inhibits the toxic effect of both glutamate and buthionine sulfoximine, does not block the decrease in cellular glutathione content induced by these drugs. Our results therefore confirm that oxidative stress and intracellular glutathione depletion are able to trigger programmed cell death in neuronal-like cells, although the exact nature of the death mechanisms remains largely unknown.
The role of dopamine receptors in mediating nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced locomotor stimulation was investigated by examining the effects of selective dopamine D1 and D2 receptor antagonists on the motor hyperactivity induced by NGF. A single intracerebroventricular administration of NGF (5.1 microg) increased locomotor activity immediately after injection in normal adult rats. This hyperactivity was partly blocked by the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 (R-(+)-7-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine-8- ol) and by the dopamine D2 antagonist raclopride ((S)-3,5-dichloro-N-((1-ethyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl)-2-hydroxy-6-methoxy benzamide). Effective doses of raclopride did not alter spontaneous levels of activity in control rats. These results suggest that stimulation of both subtypes of dopamine receptors is necessary for eliciting NGF-induced hyperactivity in the rat. The role of the dopamine D2 receptor in mediating the behavioral actions of NGF appears to be more important than that of the dopamine D1 receptor.
Immunohistochemical investigations were carried out to determine the pattern of distribution of methionine- and leucine-enkephalin-like materials in the cat pylorus, duodenum, ileum and proximal and distal colon. The present results indicate that leucine-enkephalin-like materials are less densely distributed than methionine-enkephalin-like materials, but that the two patterns of distribution show some similarities. Considerable regional differences exist however in the distribution of these enkephalin-like materials in the muscular layers. In the duodenum, ileum and proximal colon, the immunoreactivity was mainly confined to the myenteric plexus and the circular muscle layer, where it was present in nerve cell bodies and in numerous fibres. In the longitudinal muscle and submucous layers, a few immunoreactive fibres were observed which sometimes surrounded blood vessels. In the pylorus and the distal colon, however, numerous immunoreactive fibres were observed in the longitudinal and circular muscle layers; the immunoreactivity was detected in the cell bodies of numerous myenteric plexus neurons but those of only a few submucous plexus neurons. In addition, the pylorus tissues contained immunoreactive plexi which were localized either within the longitudinal muscle or between the serosa and the longitudinal muscle layer. These plexi were connected to the myenteric plexus by immunoreactive nerve strands. In all the small intestinal segments studied, numerous immunoreactive varicosities were present in the deep muscular plexus, in the inner part of the circular muscle layer. Our results suggest that in cats, the nervous control of external muscular layers mediated by enkephalins shows regional differences. In the pylorus and the distal colon, it involves both the longitudinal and circular muscle layers, whereas in other intestinal segments, only the circular muscle layer is involved.
To study possible cellular targets and subcellular sites of action of opioid ligands in the rat hippocampus, we examined the distribution of the delta opioid receptor (DOR) by immunocytochemistry. By light microscopy, numerous interneurons, or non-principal cells, were intensely labeled for DOR, whereas the CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells were lightly labeled. DOR-immunoreactive interneurons were found throughout the hippocampus but were particularly concentrated in stratum oriens of the CA1 region. Double labeling immunofluorescence revealed that DOR-immunoreactivity was found in a subpopulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-containing interneurons, which included most somatostatin-immunoreactive cells. Electron microscopic analysis of sections singly labeled for DOR revealed that DOR-immunoreactive profiles were abundant and widespread throughout all hippocampal lamina and had a similar distribution in CA1 and CA3. DOR-immunoreactivity was sometimes found in dendrites, which corresponded in morphology to those of interneurons. In addition, DOR-labeling was found in the shafts and spines of many dendrites, which exhibited the morphology of pyramidal cell dendrites. Within dendrites, dense DOR-immunoreactivity was associated with the plasmalemmal surface at or near the postsynaptic density, usually of asymmetric synapses. In addition, DOR labeling was present in a heterogeneous population of axon terminals, as well as in astrocytic profiles. At mossy fiber synapses, DOR labeling was occasionally found at both pre-and post-synaptic sites. These studies demonstrate that DOR is present at multiple sites on diverse cell types where it may function to regulate neuronal activity in the hippocampus.
Quantitative RNase protection assays were performed to determine the levels of muscarinic receptor subtype (m1-m5) mRNAs in rat hippocampi. Results showed that the m1, m3, and m4 subtype mRNAs were expressed at relatively high levels, but the levels of the m2 and m5 subtype were very low. Three weeks following aspiration lesions of the fimbria-fornix to produce cholinergic denervation of the hippocampus, non-M1 receptors (non-pirenzepine displaceable [3H]quinuclindinyl benzilate binding sites) in the hippocampus were increased significantly, which correlated with increases in the levels of hippocampal m3 and m4 receptor mRNAs (m3: +24% and m4: +41%). These findings indicate that multiple muscarinic receptor subtypes are expressed in the hippocampus with the m3 and m4 subtypes predominantly postsynaptic to the septohippocampal cholinergic terminals.
Thirty-eight neurons in the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) in alpha-chloralose/Nembutal, or halothane (in N2O/O2) anesthetized squirrel monkeys were tested for responses to distention of the urinary bladder, the distal colon and the lower esophagus. Of the 38 SI neurons studied 13 were classified as visceroceptive. Eight of the 13 visceroceptive neurons responded to stimulation of a single viscus, the other five responded to two viscera. All SI neurons investigated had somatic low threshold type responses. Anesthesia was a critical factor, because 6 of 11 neurons responded to visceral stimulation only under a light halothane anesthetic level, and during moderate halothane anesthesia levels significantly more neurons exhibited visceral inputs than under alpha-chloralose/Nembutal. The results suggest that the squirrel monkey SI is involved in processing of visceral information.
The distribution of the inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) and the cardiac form of the ryanodine receptor, two intracellular calcium channels, was examined in the rat neostriatum. Both IP3 and ryanodine receptor labeling occurred within striatal medium spiny cells but only ryanodine receptor labeling was present in choline acetyltransferase- and parvalbumin-positive interneurons. IP3 receptor labeling was observed within cell bodies, dendrites and spines of spiny striatal neurons, as seen at both the light and electron microscopic levels. Subcellular labeling for the ryanodine receptor was restricted to cell bodies and proximal dendrites when a polyclonal antibody raised against a peptide sequence from the dog cardiac ryanodine receptor was employed. More extensive dendritic labeling was seen using monoclonal antibody MA3-916, also raised against the canine cardiac ryanodine receptor. At the ultrastructural level, labeled dendritic spines were observed frequently with the monoclonal but not the polyclonal antibody. Ryanodine receptor labeling also was present within astrocytic processes surrounding blood vessels and within the neuropil, regardless of the antibody used. The results of these studies suggest that the ryanodine receptor plays a general role in intracellular calcium regulation within striatal cells while the IP3 receptor plays a specialized role within spiny neurons.
Although the integral membrane proteins that catalyze steps in the biosynthesis of neuroendocrine peptides are known to contain routing information in their cytosolic domains, the proteins recognizing this routing information are not known. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we previously identified P-CIP10 as a protein interacting with the cytosolic routing determinants of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM). P-CIP10 is a 217-kDa cytosolic protein with nine spectrin-like repeats and adjacent Dbl homology and pleckstrin homology domains typical of GDP/GTP exchange factors. In the adult rat, expression of P-CIP10 is most prevalent in the brain. Corticotrope tumor cells stably expressing P-CIP10 and PAM produce longer and more highly branched neuritic processes than nontransfected cells or cells expressing only PAM. The turnover of newly synthesized PAM is accelerated in cells co-expressing P-CIP10. P-CIP10 binds to selected members of the Rho subfamily of small GTP binding proteins (Rac1, but not RhoA or Cdc42). P-CIP10 (kalirin), a member of the Dbl family of proteins, may serve as part of a signal transduction system linking the catalytic domains of PAM in the lumen of the secretory pathway to cytosolic factors regulating the cytoskeleton and signal transduction pathways.
We have previously shown that short peptides incorporating the sequence KLVFF can bind to the approximately 40amino acid residue Alzheimer amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) and disrupt amyloid fibril formation (Tjernberg, L. O., Nslund, J., Lindqvist, F., Johansson, J., Karlstrm, A. R., Thyberg, J., Terenius, L., and Nordstedt, C. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 8545-8548). Here, it is shown that KLVFF binds stereospecifically to the homologous sequence in Abeta (i.e. Abeta16-20). Molecular modeling suggests that association of the two homologous sequences leads to the formation of an atypical anti-parallel beta-sheet structure stabilized primarily by interaction between the Lys, Leu, and COOH-terminal Phe. By screening combinatorial pentapeptide libraries exclusively composed of D-amino acids, several ligands with a general motif containing phenylalanine in the second position and leucine in the third position were identified. Ligands composed of D-amino acids were not only capable of binding Abeta but also prevented formation of amyloid-like fibrils. These ligands are protease-resistant and may thus be useful as experimental agents against amyloid fibril formation in vivo.
Dbl-homology (DH) domains are invariably located immediately N-terminal to a pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. To understand the functional relationship between these two domains we expressed the DH domain alone, the PH domain alone, and the DH-PH combination of the invasion inducing protein Tiam-1 fused to glutathione-S-transferase (GST) or green fluorescent protein (GFP). We found that the GST-DH-PH and the GST-PH constructs bind to preparations of brain membranes and to the beta gamma subunits of trimeric G proteins in vitro, while the GST-DH and GST control do not. The GFP-DH-PH and GFP-PH constructs are localized to peripheral membranes of COS-7 cells in vivo, while GFP and GFP-DH domain constructs are found diffusely in the cytoplasm. The DH-PH domain combination activates Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) strongly, but the DH domain alone and the PH domain alone have little effect. We conclude that membrane localization and enzymatic activation of the DH domain require the adjacent PH domain.
Between 3 and 6 per cent of children who are otherwise unimpaired have extreme difficulties producing and understanding spoken language. This disorder is typically labelled specific language impairment. Children diagnosed with specific language impairment often have accompanying reading difficulties (dyslexia), but not all children with reading difficulties have specific language impairment. Some researchers claim that language impairment arises from failures specific to language or cognitive processing. Others hold that language impairment results from a more elemental problem that makes affected children unable to hear the acoustic distinctions among successive brief sounds in speech. Here we report the results of psychophysical tests employing simple tones and noises showing that children with specific language impairment have severe auditory perceptual deficits for brief but not long tones in particular sound contexts. Our data support the view that language difficulties result from problems in auditory perception, and provide further information about the nature of these perceptual problems that should contribute to improving the diagnosis and treatment of language impairment and related disorders.
The variability in topological shapes of observed neuronal branching patterns can accurately be described by a simple model for random sequential growth. This finding is remarkable in view of the fact that the actual neuritic growth process can vary, and includes phases of regression and removal of branches which were not considered in the model. The aim of the present study is to investigate the influence of removal of branches on the topological structure of branching patterns as well as the effect of variable growth rules. A tree asymmetry index is used for the characterization of the topological structure of a tree. The mean value of the asymmetry index for a set of dendritic trees is sensitive to the mode of growth. The effect of removal of branches (&quot;pruning&quot;) on the topological structure of dendritic trees has been studied for several random pruning schemes, namely (i) removal of uniform randomly chosen subtrees, (ii) removal of uniform randomly chosen terminal segments, (iii) uniform random pruning during the growth process itself, and (iv) non-uniform random pruning schemes. It was found that the effect of pruning depends on both the mode of pruning and the mode of growth. Uniform random (terminal) pruning had no effect on the mean and standard deviation of the asymmetry index of trees grown with an order-independent mode of branching. Changes in the mean of the asymmetry index could occur either with non-uniform random pruning or when trees are grown according to an order-dependent mode of branching. The effect of variable growth rules was studied for several specific schemes, and it could be shown that they all result in a substantial increase in the variation in the asymmetry index of the trees.
Previous work suggests that speech sounds incorporating short-duration spectral changes (such as the formation transitions of stop consonants) rely on left hemisphere mechanisms for their adequate processing to a greater degree than do speech sounds incorporating spectral changes of a longer duration (such as vowel sounds). Ten normal subjects were scanned using positron emission tomography while discriminating pure tone stimuli incorporating frequency glides of either short or long duration. A comparison of these two conditions yielded significant activation foci in left orbitofrontal cortex, left fusiform gyrus, and right cerebellum. Because non-linguistic stimuli were used, these foci must reflect some basic low level aspect of neural processing that may be relevant to speech but cannot be a consequence of accessing the speech system itself.
Chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the rat sciatic nerve, which within 3 days induces thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia, is used as a model for pain resulting from nerve injury. Involvement of nerve growth factor (NGF) in the development of this hyperalgesia is suggested by the increase in the level of mRNA encoding NGF in cells in the injured area and in dorsal root ganglia at the level of the lesion and the greatly increased NGF levels (determined by ELISA) in the ganglia ipsilateral to the CCI. Application of anti-serum to NGF at the site of CCI delayed the appearance of hyperalgesia, whereas pre-immune serum appeared to enhance it. These results are consistent with the view that NGF is an important factor in the appearance of hyperalgesia associated with unilateral mononeuropathy.
This study is based on interviews with 37 persons fulfilling the DSM-IV criteria for kleptomania recruited through newspaper advertisements, and on 50 shoplifters interviewed directly after apprehension. Our hypothesis was that there are no absolute borders between 'pure' kleptomania according to DSM-IV and other forms of shoplifting. When asked about the latest case of shoplifting, one fifth of the shoplifters reported not having stolen the item for personal use and had later discarded it. A quarter of the kleptomaniacs reported ambivalence when asked if they needed the item in question. The degree of reported impulsivity and a feeling of not being oneself at the time of the theft was the same in the two groups. The two groups also estimated their degree of impulsivity, planning, thrill, relief, vengeance, need, pleasure on a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) as well as the degree of psychiatric imbalance on the latest theft occasion. These estimates showed that there were no differences between the groups concerning the degree of planning, psychological imbalance and the need for the stolen item in question. The kleptomaniacs rated a feeling of inner tension before the theft higher than the shoplifters. The same was true concerning a feeling of relief during the theft and impulsivity. However, the shoplifters also rated high on all these items. Altogether, these findings support our hypothesis that many shoplifters, even if they do not fulfill all DSM criteria for kleptomania, may constitute a significant medical problem and should be offered support and treatment. Anti-depressants as well as the educational programmes developed by the Shoplifters Alternatives may be effective not only in cases of kleptomania but also for more unselected groups of non-professional shoplifters.
Production of prostaglandins is a critical step in transducing immune stimuli into central nervous system (CNS) responses, but the cellular source of prostaglandins responsible for CNS signalling is unknown. Cyclooxygenase catalyzes the rate-limiting step in the synthesis of prostaglandins and exists in two isoforms. Regulation of the inducible isoform, cyclooxygenase 2, is thought to play a key role in the brain's response to acute inflammatory stimuli. In this paper, we report that intravenous lipopolysaccharide (LPS or endotoxin) induces cyclooxygenase 2-like immunoreactivity in cells closely associated with brain blood vessels and in cells in the meninges. Neuronal staining was not noticeably altered or induced in any brain region by endotoxin challenge. Furthermore, many of the cells also were stained with a perivascular microglial/macrophage-specific antibody, indicating that intravenous LPS induces cyclooxygenase in perivascular microglia along blood vessels and in meningeal macrophages at the edge of the brain. These findings suggest that perivascular microglia and meningeal macrophages throughout the brain may be the cellular source of prostaglandins following systemic immune challenge. We hypothesize that distinct components of the CNS response to immune system activation may be mediated by prostaglandins produced at specific intracranial sites such as the preoptic area (altered sleep and thermoregulation), medulla (adrenal corticosteroid response), and cerebral cortex (headache and encephalopathy).
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is the most potent endogenous orexigenic signal. Several lines of evidence indicate that the site of NPY action in transducing feeding signal may reside in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and neighboring sites in the hypothalamus. To test the hypothesis that an increase in NPY activity in the ARC-PVN pathway precedes the onset of diabetic hyperphagia, we evaluated NPY levels in seven hypothalamic nuclei and NPY gene expression in the hypothalamus at 48, 72 or 96 h after streptozotocin (STZ) treatment in rat. In STZ-treated diabetic rats, NPY gene expression in the hypothalamus and NPY levels only in the PVN significantly elevated at 48 h, while hyperphagia occurred sometimes after 48 h post-injection. These results show that augmentation in NPY neuronal activity in the ARC-PVN axis precedes the onset of increased food intake produced by STZ-induced insulinopenia. These findings affirm the hypothesis that increased NPY neurosecretion in the PVN may underlie the diabetes-induced hyperphagia.
The ultrastructure and distribution of dopaminergic boutons within the rat mesencephalic trigeminal (Me5) nucleus was examined with the use of electronmicroscopic immunocytochemistry. A total of 5102 boutons, comprising axosomatic and axodendritic synaptic terminals as well as non-synaptic boutons (or varicosities), located in the ventrocaudal portion of Me5 was analysed. Approximately 20% of these boutons were dopamine-immunoreactive. Morphological analysis showed that the dopaminergic synaptic terminals, axodendritic as well as axosomatic, were exclusively of the S- and G-bouton type; they contained, respectively, small spherical vesicles or small pleomorphic vesicles in combination with large granular dense-cored vesicles. All dopaminergic varicosities in the Me5 were of the G-bouton type. Quantitative analysis revealed that most of the dopaminergic synaptic terminals in the Me5 nucleus contacted dendrites, while only a minority (12%) contacted Me5 somata. This dopaminergic somatic input comprised about half (52%) of the total axosomatic input on Me5 neurons. The present results and previous findings with respect to the prominent serotonergic component of the axosomatic input to Me5 neurons indicate that dopamine and serotonin account for most of the axosomatic input in the ventrocaudal part of the Me5 nucleus. In fact, the present results seem to support previous observations regarding the existence of a population of afferent neurons in which dopamine and serotonin are colocalized.
(5aR,11bS)-4,5,5a,6,7,11b-Hexahydro-2-propyl-3-thia-5-azacyclopenta[c]phenanthrene-9,10-diol (A-86929, 1), a potent selective dopamine D1 agonist, was synthesized enantioselectively from D-aspartic acid. Key features of the 10-step synthesis are the following: (1) there is no chromatography required; (2) formation of 15 occurs in &gt;99% ee; (3) the electrophilic cyclization to provide the desired trans stereochemisry in 18 is achieved with no loss of enantiomeric integrity.
In this report Calkin's model of advanced practice is used to contrast generalized/specialized and basic/advanced nursing practices. Examples of specialized and advanced practices in neuroscience nursing are described in the context of environmental forces that influence advanced practice in North America. Finally, a letter from the future is used to speculate and to illustrate visions of nursing practice in the twenty-first century.
Ruptured intracerebral aneurysm causes instantaneous neurologic chaos and is associated with high morbidity ad mortality. The event initiates a cascade of physiologic and structural changes that manifest themselves in a variety of clinical symptoms. The critical care team of nurses, physicians, and therapists must rapidly identify the cause; understand the pathology; and use advanced assessment techniques, medications, and interventions to stabilize the patient and to counter the horrendous effects of the injury. Interventions that include endovascular aneurysm coiling and cerebral angioplasty are providing new options for isolating the aneurysm and countering the effects of vasospasm. Through an integrated team approach, recovery from ruptured aneurysm will be maximized.
Our previous studies have indicated that endogenous nitric oxide serves as a physiologically important inhibitor of vascular tone during acute haemorrhage. This vasodilator action attenuates the concomitant reflex adrenergic constriction and thereby prevents critical reduction of tissue blood flow. The present study aimed to evaluate the overall importance of this nitric oxide regulation for survival after acute haemorrhage. This was done by comparative observations of survival time and circulatory, metabolic and histopathological changes after an acute standardized lethal blood loss (45%) in cats exposed to nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibition and in matched control animals with intact nitric oxide regulation. NOS inhibition was instituted by intravenously administered N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester. The survival time averaged 2 h 49 min in the NOS-blocked animals and 10 h 14 min in the control animals (P &lt; 0.001). NOS inhibition thus reduced the posthaemorrhagic survival time to &lt; 30% of that in the control cats. Haemorrhage in the NOS-blocked animals led to rapidly developing arterial hypotension, increased anaerobic metabolism, metabolic lactacidosis, hyperkalaemia, and morphological tissue damage especially in heart and liver, in spite of maintained arterial normoxia, which signifies tissue hypoxia caused by seriously impaired nutritional blood supply. At the time of death of the NOS-blocked cats, the control animals still exhibited a virtually normal circulatory/metabolic state. A much later, and more slowly developing circulatory/metabolic deterioration was observed in the control animals. These differences between the two groups of animals indicate that nitric oxide release, by its vasodilator action, to a significant extent helps to maintain an adequate nutritional blood supply to the tissues in acute haemorrhage.
Recently, there has been a renewed interest in alternatives to the benzodiazepines for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). The aim of the present study was to compare the efficacy of paroxetine vs. imipramine and 2'-chlordesmethyldiazepam in 81 patients with a DSM-IV diagnosis of GAD. Approximately two-thirds of the patients who completed the study improved greatly or moderately on all three active drugs. During the first 2 weeks of treatment, 2'-chlordesmethyldiazepam treatment resulted in the greatest improvement in anxiety ratings. Both paroxetine and imipramine treatment resulted in more improvement than 2'-chlordesmethyldiazepam by the fourth week of treatment. Paroxetine and imipramine affect predominantly psychic symptoms, whereas 2'-chlordesmethyldiazepam affects predominantly somatic symptoms. Our results suggest that paroxetine is effective for the treatment of GAD.
Studies of brain anatomy and premorbid functioning indicate that schizophrenia may be of neurodevelopmental origin. In the neurotrophic factor neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) gene, the A3/147-bp allele in a dinucleotide repeat polymorphism located in the promoter region was found to be associated with schizophrenia in a Japanese study. Another NT-3 polymorphism (Glu63Gly) indicated an association with schizophrenic patients with a putative neurodevelopmental form of the disease. We examined Swedish schizophrenic patients (n = 109) and control subjects (n = 78) for the same two NT-3 polymorphisms, as well as a third silent exonic polymorphism (at Pro55). No significant difference was found between the two groups. However, in a meta-analysis including the present and previous studies of Caucasian subjects, the A3/147-bp allele frequency was found to be significantly higher in the schizophrenic patients. In the present study, carriers of the A3/147 bp allele tended to have an earlier age of onset and to display more extrapyramidal symptoms. In the silent exonic polymorphism (at Pro55), female schizophrenic patients had higher adenine and lower guanine allele frequencies than control female subjects. Together with previous studies, the results provide some support for an association between the NT-3 gene and certain forms of schizophrenia. This warrants further investigation of NT-3 and other neurotrophic factors with additional polymorphisms and larger patient samples.
A total of 54 parapartum mentally ill mothers and 89 controls were followed up approximately 6 years after childbirth. In total, 80% of the patients avoided further pregnancies during the follow-up period, compared to 58% of the controls (non-significant difference). One-third of the patients did not live together with their child, compared to only 3% of the controls. Index mothers tended to report more problematic relationships with their children. Poor childhood relationships during the mother's own childhood seem to be of special significance for the development of these problems. This study suggests a rather gloomy prognosis for parapartum mental illness. The suicide rate was 4.5%. In total, 22% of the patients, compared to none of the controls, had been on sick leave during the last 3 years, or had received a disability pension owing to mental illness at the time of the follow-up. The readmission rate for psychiatric in-patient care was 46% in the patient group.
We studied the sensitivity in detecting changes of the 6-item version of the original 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) and compared it with the more widely used versions among 164 depressed outpatients with and without atypical features before and after treatment with fluoxetine. The 6-item HAM-D was shown to be as sensitive as the 17-, 21- and 24-item versions of this scale. In addition, the different versions of the HAM-D were strongly correlated with each other at baseline and at the endpoint. It appears that the 6-item version of the HAM-D allows the assessment of severity of depression with comparable sensitivity to the standard and more elaborate versions of the same scale.

Similar neurobiological mechanisms are hypothesized to influence ethanol- and food-related reinforcement processes. This study examined the ability of compounds with dopaminergic or opiate activity to selectively alter responding maintained by a sucrose/ethanol solution in comparison to a sucrose solution. Long-Evans rats were trained to press a lever using 5% sucrose/10% ethanol and 5% sucrose as the reinforcers on a multiple Fixed Ratio 4 Fixed Ratio 4 schedule of reinforcement. When stable responding was established, the effects of intraperitoneally administered amphetamine (0.0-3.0 mg/kg), haloperidol (0.0-1.0 mg/kg), morphine (0.0-10.0 mg/kg), and naloxone (0.0-10.0 mg/kg) were examined on total session reinforcer presentation and presentation of each reinforcer within individual multiple schedule components. Prior to drug treatment, the total number of reinforcer presentations of the sucrose/ethanol solution was significantly greater than sucrose reinforcer presentations, suggesting the sucrose/ethanol solution was a more efficacious reinforcer. All agents administered decreased responding maintained by sucrose/ethanol and sucrose. The dose-effect curves for sucrose/ethanol were shifted to the left compared to sucrose, suggesting that although the compounds did not selectively impact sucrose/ethanol-maintained responding, sucrose/ethanol-maintained responding was more sensitive to the effects of these compounds.
During the last decades, a positive relation between a good alliance and a successful therapy outcome has been demonstrated across a variety of different therapeutic modalities. The relationship between alliance and drinking outcomes in long-term treatment of alcoholics (12 months or more) has not, as far as we know, been presented. In the present study, alcoholics were randomized to two outpatient treatment programmes; multimodal behavioural therapy (MBT) and psychiatric treatment based on a psychodynamic approach (PT). As part of the study, analyses were performed concerning differences in alliance between the two treatment models (MBT, n = 17; PT, n = 18), and concerning the relationship between alliance and treatment outcome. A Swedish version of the Helping Alliance Questionnaire was used to measure alliance. All therapy sessions were tape-recorded. An independent researcher rated the patient's and therapist's contribution to the alliance at the third session (early alliance). Early patient and therapist alliances were not related to sociodemographic data or initial measures of alcohol severity, psychiatric symptoms, or personality structure in either therapy. Early therapist alliance was better in MBT in comparison with PT. For MBT patients, a significant positive correlation was found between early patient alliance and mood dimensions at 6 months. There were no significant positive correlations between early alliance and drinking outcome during the course of treatment and in the third year after start of treatment. Mood and drinking outcome also showed low correlations. In conclusion, an initial positive alliance seems insufficient to reduce alcohol misuse. The relationship between early alliance and improvement in alcohol misuse needs to be further investigated.
The parabrachial nucleus (PBN) is a regulatory nucleus that relays visceral information from the brain stem to the cortex. Immunohistochemical studies have shown that the levels of various neuropeptides in the PBN were changed after visceral afferent activation. Because the major transmitter relaying visceral information through the PBN is glutamate, the present study asked if glutamate release into the PBN also was changed after vagal afferent activation in anesthetized male rats. The distally crushed vagus was stimulated (50 Hz, 1-2 mA, 1 s on, 2 s off) for 2 h. Dialysates of the PBN were collected every 30 min and assayed for glutamate using high-performance liquid chromatography. Extracellular glutamate concentrations were reduced during the vagal stimulation, increased fourfold compared with prestimulated levels after the stimulation was terminated, and returned to prestimulated levels over the next 2 h poststimulation. These changes were not due to alterations in blood pressure because sodium nitroprusside infusion for the same interval resulted in a similar hypotension, but increased glutamate release. Phenylephrine and sodium nitroprusside were infused intravenously to measure the cardiac baroreflex before, during, and after vagal stimulation. The pressor (but not the depressor) response was elevated during the period of enhanced glutamate release, and the baroreflex curve was shifted to the right (increased threshold) without a change in gain. These changes in the cardiac baroreflex were reduced, but still seen, when the PBNs were dialyzed bilaterally with the glutamate antagonists MK-801 and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Thus visceral activation alters glutamate release in the PBN and has enduring effects on cardiac baroreflex function.
Elimination of baroreceptor afferent input to the brain produced by chronic lesion of nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) does not alter vasopressin (VP) release during hypotensive hemorrhage in conscious rats. To investigate whether the kidneys play a critical role in stimulating VP release during hemorrhage in chronic NTS-lesioned rats, we examined the effects of removing potential signals arising from the kidneys. In NTS-lesioned rats, nephrectomy or renal denervation, but not captopril injection, markedly attenuated (but did not abolish) hemorrhage-induced VP release. In contrast, none of these manipulations attenuated the VP response in NTS-intact rats. Hemorrhage increased plasma renin activity in control and NTS-lesioned rats, and this response was not altered by renal denervation. In rats with NTS lesions and renal denervation, hemorrhage induced the expression of Fos in hypothalamic magnocellular VP neurons in a pattern similar to that of hemorrhage in intact rats. Collectively, these results indicate that in chronic NTS-lesioned rats an afferent signal arising from the kidneys stimulates VP release during hemorrhage, possibly through renal nerves. However, with the NTS intact or after the selective removal of arterial baroreceptor inputs, such a role for the kidneys is not apparent. Furthermore, in the absence of the NTS and renal nerves, another signal generated by hypotensive hemorrhage continues to stimulate VP neurons.


A humanized, monoclonal antibody of the IgG4 class was treated with SDS at room temperature. Analysis using SDS-PAGE revealed the progressive formation of a series of denaturation intermediates, of increasing apparent molecular weights. The detectable species migrated with apparent molecular weights of 137, 152, 162, 182, 196, and 210 kDa. Antibody not incubated in SDS had an apparent molecular weight of 137 kDa, while boiling in SDS provoked the immediate conversion of all antibody to the slowest migrating form (210 kDa). A study designed to test if all rungs of the ladder were equally cleavable by mild treatment with mercaptoethanol revealed small amounts of a novel form, and conditions were devised to generate large amounts of this novel form. The novel form, before full denaturation, migrated at the position of unheated, intact antibody (137 kDa), while full denaturation in SDS converted the novel form to a species migrating at about 190 kDa. The novel form, before full denaturation, was identified as HHL ***L, where the asterisks indicate noncovalent binding of one light chain to HHL. This noncovalent complex remains intact during SDS-PAGE. The novel form, after full denaturation, was identified as HHL. This study, with earlier studies, reveals that different pathways of reductive cleavage are taken by different antibodies, and that the most sensitive disulfide bond is different for different antibodies. Our results on antibody denaturation serve as a warning to those who use two-dimensional gels for the analysis of antibodies.
To clarify further the functional anatomy of the avian choroid, including its innervation, 12 adult White-Leghorn chickens were studied by standard electron microscopy and immunoelectron microscopy with somatostatin antibody. The endothelial cells of the blood vessels in the choriocapillaris have fenestrations only facing the retina, while the nuclei are situated toward the sclera. In addition to tight junctions and zonulae adherentes, adjoining endothelial cells form gap junctions and dense plaques with attached filaments resembling those of smooth muscle cells. The fine structure of arteries and veins is similar to that of the vasculature described in other organs. The supporting tissue is organized in trabeculae, i.e., bridges of cellular and fibrous elements that surround and sustain blood and lymphatic vessels. This tissue consists primarily of a system of fusiform or star-shaped smooth muscle cells, connected to each other and to those in the vessels' walls through macular junctions of the adherent type, less prominent than desmosomes, and perhaps also punctiform gap junctions. Occasionally, trabecular smooth muscle cells approach the lymphatic vessels, which lack a muscular tunica, and abut their endothelium with spinous appendages. This stromal muscle tissue may act as a pump for moving the lymph. The suprachoroidea consists of large lymphatic lacunae and the multilayered membrana fusca. The elongated fuscal cells form adherent junctions, tight junctions, and perhaps also gap junctions, suggesting that the membrana fusca exerts complex functions. Nerves containing myelinated axons reach the choroid and divide into smaller branches, a few of which innervate the membrana fusca. Numerous, thin nerve branches reach both the walls of arteries and veins and the trabeculae, and synaptic terminals abut the outer muscular layers of the vessel's wall and the smooth muscle cells of the supporting tissue. Immunocytochemistry reveals the presence of numerous somatostatin-positive and somatostatin-negative axons and synaptic terminals within both trabeculae and vascular tunica media. The somatostatin-positive axons are presumed to be cholinergic axons of the choroid neurons residing in the ciliary ganglion. Taken together, these observations indicate that the avian choroid is a highly vascularized muscular sheath that may be endowed with degrees of motility and elasticity higher than those of the mammalian choroid and may therefore play an important role in compensation for experimental defocus.
In neuroscience research, the use of true single-unit microelectrode technique has been confined largely to the animal neurophysiology laboratory due to the complexity of the equipment required and the fastidious, time-consuming nature of the methodology. We report here our successful clinical use of this technique in human patients with Parkinson's disease undergoing awake stereotactic movement disorder neurosurgery. The common targets in such operations are the postero-ventral portion of the globus pallidus interna in the basal ganglia (for dopa-induced dyskinesias particularly) and the ventro-intermediate nucleus of the thalamus (for tremor-predominant Parkinson's disease). Accurate and exquisite neurophysiological localisation of these small targets deep within the brain can be obtained with single-unit microelectrode technique prior to the insertion of a deep brain stimulator or definitive neurosurgical radiofrequency lesioning in the target area. This accuracy translates into better outcomes for patients and a reduced incidence of complications. The wealth of data gained from studying the abnormal behaviour of neurons within the basal ganglia and thalamus also provides us with fundamental insights into the pathophysiology behind Parkinson's disease.
Saposins A, B, C, and D, which are required for the enzymatic hydrolysis of sphingolipids by specific lysosomal hydrolases, are produced by proteolytic processing of their common precursor protein, prosaposin. Our previous observation suggested that lysosomal cathepsin D may be involved in the proteolysis of prosaposin. Herein we report the involvement of cathepsin D in the proteolytic processing of prosaposin. An antibody against human placental cathepsin D blocked the proteolytic activity toward prosaposin in a human testicular lysosomal protease mixture (glycoprotein fraction). On immunoblot analysis using a monoclonal antibody against human saposin C, cathepsin D showed a similar proteolytic pattern as that of a human testicular glycoprotein fraction and hydrolyzed prosaposin into products of 48 and 29 kDa. The Km and Vmax values were 0.9 microM and 167 nmol/h/mg, respectively. N-Terminal sequence analysis indicated that the 48-kDa band was a mixture of two trisaposins, including domains for saposins A, B, and C and saposins B, C, and D, respectively. A similar study also showed that the 29-kDa band contained two disaposins, including domains for saposins A and B and saposins C and D, respectively. By longer treatment with cathepsin D, disaposins were further processed into mature saposin A and small fragments (14.5-17.5 kDa) containing individual saposins and portions of interdomain sequences. These small fragments were no longer processed by cathepsin D, but trimmed to fragments having similar molecular sizes (10.5-11.5 kDa) to those of mature saposins by a rat lysosome preparation. These findings indicated that cathepsin D is involved in the maturation of saposins but that, in addition to cathepsin D, other proteases appear to be involved in the maturation of saposin B, C, and D in lysosomes. Gangliosides, which specifically form complexes with prosaposin and saposins, inhibit proteolysis of prosaposin by cathepsin D. This finding indicates that prosaposin may be protected from lysosomal proteolysis by forming a complex with gangliosides in vivo.




In the cat optic nerve a lesion was induced by brief application of pressure. It selectively blocked impulse conduction in large diameter fibres of the retinal ganglion cells. Electrophysiological examination of single optic axons several weeks later demonstrated a gross alteration of the visual properties of the affected BT/Y ganglion cells. It is suggested that the alteration of receptive field properties may reflect the cellular and dendritic response to distant focal injury of the axon.
To study the effects of phosphorylation by glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) on the ability of the microtubule-associated protein tau to promote microtubule self-assembly, tau isoform 1 (foetal tau) and three mutant forms of this tau isoform were investigated. The three mutant forms of tau had the following serine residues, known to be phosphorylated by GSK-3, replaced with alanine residues so as to preclude their phosphorylation: (1) Ser-199 and Ser-202 (Ser-199/202--&gt;Ala), (2) Ser-235 (Ser-235--&gt;Ala) and (3) Ser-396 and Ser-404 (Ser-396/404--&gt;Ala). Wild-type tau and the mutant forms of tau were phosphorylated with GSK-3beta, and their ability to promote microtubule self-assembly was compared with the corresponding non-phosphorylated tau species. In the non-phosphorylated form, wild-type tau and all of the mutants affected the mean microtubule length and number concentrations of assembled microtubules in a manner consistant with enhanced microtubule nucleation. Phosphorylation of these tau species with GSK-3beta consistently reduced the ability of a given tau species to promote microtubule self-assembly, although the affinity of the tau for the microtubules was not greatly affected by phosphorylation since the tau species remained largely associated with the microtubules. This suggests that the regulation of microtubule assembly can be controlled by phosphorylation of tau at sites accessible to GSK-3beta by a mechanism that does not necessarily involve the dissociation of tau from the microtubules.
Light is known to be an important modulator of circadian rhythms. We tested the hypothesis than an enduring increase in the daytime environmental illumination level improves rest-activity rhythm disturbances in demented patients. Actigraphy was performed before, during, and after 4 weeks of increased illumination in the living rooms of 22 patients with dementia clinically diagnosed as probable Alzheimer's disease, multi-infarct dementia, dementia associated with alcoholism, or normal pressure hydrocephalus. The results indicated that during increased illumination, the stability of the rest-activity rhythm increased in patients with intact vision, but not in visually impaired patients.
Short-term reduction in plasma tryptophan (tryptophan depletion) produces a relapse of depressive symptoms in 60% of previously depressed patients recently recovered with serotonin reuptake inhibitor treatment. Tryptophan depletion does not consistently increase depressive symptoms in unmedicated depressed patients or in depressed patients whose symptoms are remitted with a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor. These data suggest that serotonin reuptake inhibitor treatment itself may confer vulnerability to the development of depressive symptoms during tryptophan depletion. In order to further investigate this possibility, six healthy individuals underwent double-blind placebo-controlled tryptophan depletion before and following six weeks of treatment with fluoxetine 20 mg/day. No increased vulnerability to the mood-lowering effects of tryptophan depletion occurred as a result of fluoxetine treatment. Additionally, fluoxetine treatment itself was not associated with changes in mood or quality of life in these healthy volunteers. These data indicate that serotonin reuptake inhibitor treatment alone does not produce the depressive effects of tryptophan depletion that are observed in serotonin reuptake inhibitor-treated depressed and obsessive compulsive disorder patients.
We have identified multiple fucosyltransferases (FTs) (alpha[1-2]-, alpha[1-3]-, alpha[1-4]-FTs) on cells of the rat seminiferous epithelium as demonstrated by fucose incorporation into phenyl-beta-D-galactoside (Ph-beta-D-Gal), 2'-fucosyllactose (2'-FL), and lacto-N-fucopentaose-l (LNF I), respectively. Now, using fluorescence laser scanning cytometry, we report that multiple FTs are implicated in germ cell-Sertoli cell adhesion in vitro. Sertoli cells were isolated from 19- to 21-day-old CD rats and cultured for 6-10 days. Mixed germ cells were obtained by enzymatic dispersion of adult rat testis and cultured overnight before labeling with 10 microM acetoxymethyl ester derivative of the fluorescent indicator, calcein. The adherent cell analysis and sorting 570 interactive laser cytometer was used to determine the number of labeled adherent germ cells on Sertoli cell monolayers in the presence or absence of a variety of low molecular weight acceptors for fucose. Coincubation of labeled germ cells with Sertoli cell monolayers in the presence of GDP-fucose, UDP-galactose, Ph-beta-D-Gal, 2'-FL, LNF I, and Lewis-X and 3'-sialyl-Lewis-X oligosaccharides resulted in significant reduction of germ cell binding when compared to that of the untreated controls or of control samples incubated with cellobiose, melibiose, and alpha-D-mannopyranose, which do not serve as fucose acceptors. Our results suggest that multiple FTs and their lectin/selectin ligands are involved in mediating germ cell-Sertoli cell adhesion to form a cohesive epithelium and thus aid germ cell adluminal translocation within the seminiferous epithelium.
After acute brain injury there may be increased intracranial production of cytokines, with activation of inflammatory cascades. We have sought to determine if a transcranial cytokine gradient was demonstrable in paired sera of 32 patients requiring intensive care after acute brain injury. The difference between concentrations of IL-1 beta, IL-6, IL-8 and TNF alpha in jugular venous and arterial serum was measured on admission, and at 24, 48 and 96 h after the primary injury. There were no differences in IL-1 beta, IL-8 or TNF alpha, but median gradients of 6.7 and 11.5 pg ml-1 for IL-6 were demonstrated in the traumatic brain injury (n = 22) and subarachnoid haemorrhage (n = 10) groups, respectively (normal values in serum &lt; 4.7 pg ml-1; P &lt; 0.001 both groups). This suggests that there is significant production of IL-6 by intracranial cells after acute brain injury. Therapy directed towards combatting the negative effects of IL-6 may potentially benefit patients who have sustained an acute brain injury.
1. In C6 glioma cells exposed to chemical hypoxia a massive release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) occurred at 3 and 6 h, coupled with an increased number of propidium-iodide positive dead cells. 2. Extracellular Na+ removal, which activates the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchanger as a Na+ efflux pathway and prevents Na+ entrance, significantly reduced LDH release and the number of propidium iodide positive C6 cells. 3. During chemical hypoxia, in the presence of extracellular Na+ ions, a progressive increase of [Ca2+]i occurred; in the absence of extracellular Na+ ions [Ca2+]i was enhanced to a greater extent. 4. The blockade of the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchanger by the amiloride derivative 5-(N-4-chlorobenzyl)-2',4'-dimethylbenzamil (CB-DMB), lanthanum (La3+) and the Ca2+ chelator EGTA, completely reverted the protective effect exerted by the removal of Na+ ions on C6 glioma cells exposed to chemical hypoxia. 5. The inhibition of the Na(+)-Ca2+ antiporter enhanced chemical hypoxia-induced LDH release when C6 glioma cells were incubated in the presence of physiological concentrations of extracellular Na+ ions (145 mM), suggesting that the blockade of the Na(+)-Ca2+ antiporter during chemical hypoxia can lead to increased cell damage. 6. Collectively, these results suggest that activation of the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchanger protects C6 glioma cells exposed to chemical hypoxia, whereas its pharmacological blockade can exacerbate cellular injury.
1. gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA), acting via the GABAA receptor, increased the extracellular acidification rate of rat primary cultured cerebellar granule cells, measured by the Cytosensor microphysiometer. 2. The optimal conditions for the measurement of GABAA receptor function in cerebellar granule cells by microphysiometry were: cells seeded at 9-12 x 10(5) cells/transwell cup and maintained in vitro for 8 days, GABA stimulation performed at 25 degrees C, with a stimulation time of 33 s. 3. GABA stimulated a concentration-dependent increase in the extracellular acidification rate with an EC50 of 2.0 +/- 0.2 microM (mean +/- s.e.mean, n = 7 experiments) and maximal increase (Emax) over basal response of 15.4 +/- 1.2%. 4. The sub-maximal GABA-stimulated increase in acidification rate could be potentiated by the 1,4-benzodiazepine, flunitrazepam (100 nM). The 10 nM GABA response showed the maximal benzodiazepine facilitation (GABA alone, 1.4 microV s-1, GABA + flunitrazepam, 3.8 microV s-1, mean increment over basal, n = 7). 5. The GABA-stimulated increase in acidification rate was inhibited by the GABAA antagonist, bicuculline (100 microM) (90% inhibition at 1 mM GABA). 6. The results of this study show that activation of GABAA receptors in rat cerebellar granule cells caused an increase in the extracellular acidification rate; an effect which was potentiated by benzodiazepines and inhibited by a GABAA receptor antagonist. This paper defines the conditions and confirms the feasibility of using microphysiometry to investigate GABAA receptor function in primary cultured CNS neurones. The microphysiometer provides a rapid and sensitive technique to investigate the regulation of the GABAA receptor in populations of neurones.
1. Evidence that nitric oxide (NO) bioactivity is altered in chronic hypertension is conflicting, possibly as a result of heterogeneity in both the nature of the dysfunction and in the disease process itself. The brain is particularly vulnerable to the vascular complications of chronic hypertension, and the aim of this study was to assess whether differences in the cerebrovascular responsiveness to the NO synthase (NOS) inhibitors, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) and 7-nitroindazole (7-NI), and to the NO donor 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1) might indicate one possible source of these complications. 2. Conscious spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and WKY rats, were treated with L-NAME (30 mg kg-1, i.v.), 7-NI (25 mg kg-1, i.p.), (0.54 or 1.8 mg kg-1 h-1, continuous i.v. infusion) or saline (i.v.), 20 min before the measurement of local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) by the fully quantitative [14C]-iodoantipyrine autoradiographic technique. 3. With the exception of mean arterial blood pressure (MABP), there were no significant differences in physiological parameters between SHR and WKY rats within any of the treatment groups, or between treatment groups. L-NAME treatment increased MABP by 27% in WKY and 18% in SHR groups, whilst 7-NI had no significant effect in either group. Following the lower dose of SIN-1 infusion, MABP was decreased to a similar extent in both groups (around -20%). There was no significant difference in MABP between groups following the higher dose of SIN-1, but this represented a decrease of -41% in SHR and -21% in WKY rats. 4. With the exception of one brain region (nucleus accumbens), there were no significant differences in basal LCBF between WKY and SHR. L-NAME produced similar decreases in LCBF in both groups, ranging between -10 and -40%. The effect of 7-NI upon LCBF was more pronounced in the SHR (ranging from -34 to -57%) compared with the WKY (ranging from -14 to -43%), and in seven out of the thirteen brain areas examined there were significant differences in LCBF. 5. Following the lower dose of SIN-1, in the WKY 8 out of the 13 brain areas examined showed significant increases in blood flow compared to the saline treated animals. In contrast, only 2 brain areas showed significant increases in flow in the SHR. In the rest of the brain areas examined the effects of SIN-1 upon LCBF were less marked than in the WKY. 6. Infusion of the higher dose of SIN-1 resulted in further significant increases in LCBF in the WKY group (ranging between +30% and +74% compared to saline-treated animals), but no significant effects upon LCBF were found in the SHR. As a result, there were significant differences in LCBF between SIN-1-treated WKY and SHR in six brain areas. In most brain areas examined, cerebral blood flow in SHR following the higher dose of SIN-1 was less than that measured with the lower dose of SIN-1. 7. Despite comparable reductions in MABP (approximately 20%) in both groups, calculated cerebrovascular resistance (CVR) confirmed that the vasodilator effects of the lower dose of SIN-1 were significantly more pronounced throughout the brain in the WKY (ranging between -3% and -50%; median = -38%) when compared to the SHR (ranging between -10% and -36%; median = -26%). In the animals treated with the higher dose of SIN-1, CVR changes were broadly similar in both groups (median = -45% in WKY and -42% in SHR), but with the reduction in MABP in SHR being twice that found in WKY, this is in keeping with an attenuated blood flow response to SIN-1 in the SHR. 8. The results of this study indicate that NO-dependent vasodilator capacity is reduced in the cerebrovasculature of SHR. In addition, the equal responsiveness to a non-specific NOS inhibitor but an enhanced effectiveness of a specific neuronal NO inhibitor upon LCBF in the SHR could be consistent with an upregulation of the neuronal NO system.
1. Experiments were performed to investigate the role of endogenously released tachykinins in the regulation of blood flow to the rat knee joint. Synovial perfusion was assessed by laser Doppler perfusion imaging, which permitted spatial measurement of relative changes in perfusion from control (pre drug administration), expressed as the percentage change. Most experiments were performed on the exposed medial aspect of the knee joint capsule. 2. Neither the selective tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist, FK888, nor the selective tachykinin NK2 receptor antagonist, SR48968, significantly influenced synovial blood flow at doses of 10(-12), 10(-10) and 10(-8) mol. However, topical co-administration of these agents produced significant dose-dependent reductions in basal synovial perfusion of 6.3 +/- 4.6 and 12.0 +/- 3.4 and 19.9 +/- 2.6%, respectively; n = 29. The non-selective tachykinin NK1/NK2 receptor antagonist, FK224, also produced significant (at 10(-10) and 10(-8) mol), but less potent, reductions in perfusion of 5.3 +/- 4.0, 8.4 +/- 2.2 and 5.9 +/- 2.8%, respectively; n = 25. 3. Topical administration of the alpha 1-, alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist phenoxybenzamine elicited a 31.3 +/- 6.2% increase in blood flow which was substantially reduced to 10.4 +/- 3.8% by co-administration of the FK888 and SR48968 (both at 10(-8) mol; n = 8-13), suggesting that normally there is sympathetic vasoconstrictor &quot;tone' which is opposed by the vasodilator action of endogenous tachykinins. 4. One week after surgical interruption of the nerve supply to the knee joint, co-administration of FK888 and SR48968 (both at 10(-8) mol) now produced slight vasodilatation (6.7 +/- 4.6%; n = 9) which did not differ significantly from vehicle treatment. Depletion of tachykinins from sensory nerve fibres by systemic capsaicin administration also resulted in abolition of the vasoconstrictor effect of FK888 and SR48968 (both at 10(-8) mol), with these agents only producing a slight vasodilatation (2.5 +/- 5.3%; n = 6). 5. By use of a near infra-red laser source it was possible to image knee joint perfusion transcutaneously, the overlying skin being left intact. In this more physiological situation, close intra-arterial injection of the combination of FK888 and SR48968 (both at 10(-8) mol) again elicited vasoconstriction (48.8 +/- 16.2% reduction in blood flow; n = 4). 6. These results indicate that endogenous tachykinins may be continuously released from sensory fibers innervating the joint. Basal release of tachykinins could therefore be an important physiological influence opposing sympathetic vasoconstrictor tone.
The male rat's sexual behavior constitutes a highly ordered sequence of motor acts involving both striate and smooth muscles. It is spontaneously displayed by most adult made rats in the presence of a sexually receptive female. Although the behavior is important for the survival of the species it is not necessary for survival of the individual. In that way it is different from other spontaneous behaviors such as eating, drinking, avoidance of pain, respiration or thermoregulation. Among other things, this means that it is difficult to talk about sexual deprivation or need. Nevertheless, studies of male sex behavior distinguish sexual motivation (the ease by which behavior is activated, &quot;libido&quot;) from the execution of copulatory acts (performance, &quot;potency&quot;) (Meisel, R.L. and Sachs, B.D., The physiology of male sexual behavior. In: E. Knobil and J.D. Neill (Eds.), The Physiology of Reproduction, 2nd Edn., Vol. 2, Raven Press, New York, 1994, pp. 3-105 [13]). The hormonal control of male sexual behavior has been extensively studied. It is clear that steroid hormones, androgens and estrogens, act within the central nervous system, modifying neuronal excitability. The exact mechanism by which these hormones activate sex behavior remains largely unknown. However, there exists a considerable amount of knowledge concerning the brain structures important for sexual motivation and for the execution of sex behavior. The modulatory role of some non-steroid hormones is partly known, as well as the consequences of manipulations of several neurotransmitter systems.
In situ hybridization (ISH) represents a powerful and sensitive method for examining gene expression in individual cells in a manner analogous to immunocytochemistry (ICC) which is used to localize and identify cells containing a particular protein or labile antigens such as amino acid neurotransmitters. Considerable progress has been made both in molecular cloning which provides nucleotide probes and in the production of antibodies to specific antigens, especially those directed against small haptenes such as GABA and catecholamines. Consequently, specific tools have become available for ISH and ICC procedures in most cases. Several techniques including double ISH, double ICC and ISH coupled to ICC have been developed to characterize the phenotype of cells expressing neurotransmitters or specific neuroreceptors. This has been particularly well illustrated for neuropeptides (Young, III, W.S., Mezey, E. and Siegel, R.E. Vasopressin and oxytocin mRNAs in adrenalectomized and Brattleboro rats: analysis by quantitative in situ hybridization and histochemistry, Mol. Brain Res., 1 (1986) 231-241[17]) or dopamine receptors (Le Moine, C., Normand, E., Guitteny, A.F., Fouque, B., Teoule, R. and Bloch, B., Dopamine receptor gene expression by enkephalin neurons in rat forebrain, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. (USA), 87 (1990) 20-24 [8]; Le Moine, C., Normand, E. and Bloch, B., Phenotypical characterisation of the rat striatal neurons expressing the D1 dopamine receptor gene, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. (USA), 88 (1991) 4205-4209 [9]) but exclusively on frozen tissues. Combination of ISH and ICC allows the simultaneous detection of specific mRNAs and antigens in a same section or in adjacent sections. However, when ISH is coupled to ICC on a same section, a loss of signal in ISH is often observed (Siegel, R.E., Localization of neuronal mRNAs by hydridization histochemistry. In: P.M. Conn (Ed.), Methods in Neurosciences. Gene Probes. Vol. 1, Academic Press, New York, 1989, pp. 136-150 [13]) which may be a handicap when the rate of mRNA expression is low. Moreover, interferences between ISH coupled to ICC techniques may occur leading to artifactual signals. In the present protocol, in situ hybridization with a specific 35S-labeled riboprobe and immunocytochemistry with a polyclonal antibody are performed on adjacent sections of paraffin-embedded rodent brains. Paraffin embedding allows a better preservation of tissue morphology than freezing procedure. This is of particular importance since simultaneous detection of mRNAs and proteins in the same cell populations on adjacent sections requires conditions where (a) cell morphology is highly retained in a same manner on adjacent sections, and (b) reactivity of nucleic acids and antigens is preserved. We have used this technique to analyze the presence of serotonin 5-HT(1B) mRNA in GABAergic cell bodies (Cloz-Tayarani, I., Wusher, N., Huerre, M. and Fillion, G., Cellular localization of 5-HT(1B) receptor mRNA in the rat olfactory tubercle: do GABAergic neurons express the 5-HT(1B) gene? Mol. Brain Res., 36 (1996) 337-342 [3]).
The complement system plays an important role in human immune defense mechanism. Its activation via either the classical or the alternative pathway can lead to the formation of membrane attack complex (MAC) and subsequently kills target cells. Activation of the classical pathway can be initiated with binding of C1q which is first factor of complement cascade to the Fc (fragment crystalline) region of immunoglobulin. This triggers a cascade of proteolytic events resulting in the activation of C5 convertase which cleaves C5 into C5b and C5a. The C5b then binds C6, C7, C8 to form a C5b-8 complex. Binding of C9 molecules to C5b-8 forms C5b-9, the MAC, which pore size increases as the number of C9 in the complex increases. If this membrane lesion persists and results in uncontrolled ion fluxes, the cells swell and eventually lyse. To restrict the activity of the complement system, endogenous complement inhibitors are available to regulate complement-mediated cytolysis. This enables the complement system to distinguish &quot;self&quot; from &quot;foreign&quot; and protect the host from inadvertent complement attack. Activation of the classical complement cascade has been reported in Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders. Recently, we demonstrated that complement activation causes neuronal cell death in vitro, and this neurodegenerative process is regulated by homologous restriction. In this article, we describe the use of two cell lines as in vitro models to evaluate cell injury/cell death induced by complement activation.
Spontaneous neurologic mutations in the mouse provide powerful tools for the study of mammalian central nervous system development. The study of mouse neurologic mutants has led to a better understanding of the complex mechanisms involved in the development of the nervous system. Because few of these mutations have been identified, molecular probes distinguishing heterozygotes from homozygotes are generally unavailable. Further, most neurologic mouse mutants breed poorly as homozygotes, making it necessary to breed heterozygotes and select homozygous mutant progeny based on phenotype. The requirement for heterozygous breeding and the lack of molecular markers specific for the mutation have hampered developmental studies because the underlying neurologic perturbations occur before the mutant mice can be identified by phenotype. The recent identification and chromosomal assignment of simple sequence repeats (SSRs), repetitive sequences of DNA found at a high density throughout the mouse genome, provide the tools for mapping mutations in the mouse and for subsequent genotyping of potential mutants prior to phenotype onset. The SSRs are useful because these markers are polymorphic (for review see Weber, J.L., Human DNA polymorphisms based on length variations in simple-sequence tandem repeats. In: K.E. Davies and S.M. Tilghman (Eds.), Genetic and Physical Mapping. Genome Analysis, Vol. I, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Plainview, NY, 1990, pp. 159-181 [16]), that is, the size of the individual SSRs differs among strains of mice. Following polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of an SSR and separation of PCR products by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, one can easily visualize differences in the size of the PCR product between mouse strains. Many mutations in the mouse arose spontaneously on inbred strains and were subsequently backcrossed onto a different strain. After many generations of congenic backcrosses, the only DNA retained from the original mutant strain is composed of the mutant gene and closely linked regions. Thus, it is possible to cross the mutant strain to a different mouse strain and map the mutation by correlating mutant phenotype to SSRs the same size as the original mutant strain. We have mapped the tottering (tg), Purkinje cell degeneration (pcd), and nervous (nr) mutations using SSRs in backcrossed mouse strains. The SSRs distinguishing mutant from normal strains can then be used to genotype potential mutant pups before the onset of the mutant phenotype. The protocol described below can be adapted to almost any mutation congenically inbred for genotyping. Here we describe a method for selecting primers appropriate for genotyping potential mouse mutants and a rapid protocol for genotype screening. Even with SSRs distinguishing mutant from normal mice, genotyping several mice simultaneously can be a daunting task. This is primarily because the protocols available for preparing DNA for PCR amplification are time-consuming, requiring several purification steps including phenol extractions. Although kits are commercially available for DNA preparation without organic extractions, these kits tend to be expensive. The protocol described is a rapid, inexpensive method of determining the genotype of mice using PCR analysis of dried blood spots. The protocol only requires PCR primers distinguishing among alleles and is therefore ideal for the rapid identification of potential mutants for those mouse mutations which have been mapped using microsatellite markers. The DNA preparation protocol may also be used in rapid screening of potential transgenic mice.
Changes in neuronal surface area may be monitored by measuring the plasma membrane capacitance [8]. Membrane time constant (tao m) is given by the product of the membrane resistance (rm) and membrane capacitance (Cm), tao m = rm Cm. Thus, when membrane resistance is kept constant at a steady state (resting), membrane time constant can reflect the size of neuronal surface area. Membrane time constant is the time for the potential to fall from the resting to a fraction (1-l/e), or 63%, of its final value in the charging curve during the application of a small negative current pulse. Negative voltage shift from the resting potential hardly activates any voltage-dependent ion channel, resulting in nominal changes in cell membrane resistance. Although elaborated methods for mathematical models and simulations are available for the electrophysiological assessment of neuron geometry in order to estimate subthreshold potential attenuation during the propagation of synaptically mediated electrical signals, they involve a number of critical assumptions for the convenience to each model, and some of these assumptions are unlikely to be valid. With these restrictive assumptions, very little can be determined about the electronic structure of a neuron beyond the measurement of neuronal membrane resistance and membrane time constant. Alternatively, numerous tracers are available to visualize morphologies of neurons intracellularly and extracellularly. These anatomical methods provide direct and quantitative evidence for neuron geometry; however, they involve tissue processing and a series of chemical reactions, some of which are time- and effort-demanding. The purpose of the present paper is to show that membrane time constant can be effectively used as a tool to assess diminution in cell surface area without involving extensive mathematical theories and/or neuroanatomical techniques. This approach is particularly effective in electrotonically compact cells such as hippocampal neurons. Recent development in the technique of the whole-cell patch clamp recording in the slice preparation yielded longer time constant with better resolution due to the absence of the leak conductance associated with microelectrode impalement. Indeed, when membrane time constant was measured with the whole-cell patch clamp recording technique, it successfully detected the reduction in dendritic arbors (dendritic degeneration) in dentate granule cells in the pilocarpine model of chronic epilepsy, and this finding is supported by the neuroanatomical evidence that was obtained from the same specimen samples. Membrane time constant is an easy-to-measure &quot;passive membrane property&quot; and can be used as a reliable probe by itself for detecting dendritic degeneration or as a tool for decision-making in introducing neuroanatomical technique in combination with slice neurophysiology.
The myenteric plexus is not only essential for gastrointestinal functions, but it is also a very interesting model for the study of neuronal circuits and neuron-glial interrelationships and may be a valuable source of donor tissue, for grafting into different regions of the central nervous system. For both grafting and culture procedures it is a great advantage to obtain the maximum amount of tissue. To date, most studies have isolated the myenteric plexus by manual microdissection after collagenase digestion. Using this method, it has only been possible to obtain relatively small amounts of the myenteric plexus, mostly from the cecum and proximal colon of the guinea-pig or rat. We present here a new method, which enables much greater quantities of the plexus from the small intestine and colon to be obtained. The myenteric plexus of the entire small intestine can be isolated by a combination of enzymatic digestion and mechanical agitation. The method works from birth up to 3 week old pups, and with some modifications tissue from older or even adult animals can also be processed. Another advantage over the microdissection method is that the myenteric plexuses of the different parts of the intestine can be cultured and studied separately.
Improper intracellular regulation of the ubiquitous second messenger, calcium, has been linked to several pathological conditions. The plasma membrane calcium ATPase (PMCA) is one of the primary systems for translocating calcium from the cytosol to the extracellular milieu. As an initial assessment of the possible involvement of PMCAs in kainate (KA)-induced neurodegeneration, we have determined the effect of KA-induced seizures upon PMCA mRNA and protein. In situ hybridization was performed on tissue from adult male Sprague-Dawley rats sacrificed at various time points following i.p. injection of KA. KA altered the expression within the hippocampal subfields for mRNAs of PMCA isoforms 1 and 2. PMCA 1 and 2 mRNAs exhibited hybridization below control levels 12-48 h post-injection within CA1 and CA3. Within the dentate gyrus, PMCA 2 mRNA hybridized below control levels 4 h post-injection, but recovered to control levels by 24 h post-injection. Alterations in combined PMCA protein levels occurred at all time points examined post-injection. These observations provide evidence that KA-induced seizures alter the PMCAs at the mRNA and protein levels, suggesting a possible role for this calcium efflux system in the neuronal degeneration inherent to this paradigm.
To examine the content of the 5' flanking region of the mouse BDNF gene a mouse library was screened using oligonucleotides corresponding to the rat exon I untranslated region. A 6-kb genomic fragment containing exons I and II and flanking regions was isolated and sequenced. The structure of the 5' end of the mouse gene is similar to that of rat, exons I and II are 2 small untranslated regions clustered within 500 bp of each other at the 5' end of the gene. The nucleotide sequence homology between rat and mouse is 93%. Analysis for transcription factor-binding sites show a predominance of AP1 and C/EBP elements which are conserved between the 2 species. Deleted fragments of the 5' flanking region of exons I and II were fused to the luciferase reporter gene and transcriptional activity was analyzed by transient expression in primary cortico-hippocampal cultures. We found that a fragment of 266 bp from exon I transcription start is sufficient for promoter activity in basal conditions. Following experimental stimulation by treatment with kainic acid, we determined that regulatory elements responsive to kainic acid are located within 989 bp of the transcriptional start of exon I.


Recent advances in the physiology of hippocampal interneurons are summarized in this article. These findings suggest that through their interconnectivity inhibitory interneurons can maintain large-scale oscillations at various frequency ranges (theta, gamma, and 200-Hz bands). We suggest that networks of inhibitory interneurons within the forebrain impose coordinated oscillatory &quot;contexts&quot; for the &quot;content&quot; carried by networks of principal cells. These oscillating inhibitory networks may provide the precise temporal structure necessary for ensembles of neurons to perform specific functions, such as memory trace formation and retrieval. In addition, synaptic inhibition is shown to reduce the somadendritic backpropagation of sodium spikes and to prevent the occurrence of calcium spikes in dendrites. These observations indicate that interneurons are in an excellent position to control neuronal plasticity and allow synaptic transmission either with or without long-term modification of synaptic strength.
Neuroanatomical methods have been used to study selective vulnerability after global brain ischemia. A consistent pattern of ischemic neuronal damage is found in the rodent hippocampus with loss of CA1 neurons and of some cells in the hilus of the dentate gyrus. Very little is known about plastic changes that would be expected in ischemia-resistant areas such as CA3 neurons and granule cells. Neuronal plasticity after lesions may be indicated by changes in labeling with antibodies to the growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43). Expression of GAP-43 as a marker for neuronal plasticity was studied here in the hippocampus after global brain ischemia. Halothane-anesthetized rats were subjected to 20 min of transient forebrain ischemia using four-vessel occlusion. In situ hybridization was used to study GAP-43 mRNA at 1, 3, 6, and 12 h and at 1, 3, and 7 days after ischemia. Immunostaining was carried out with two different antibodies to GAP-43 in brains which were perfusion-fixed after 1, 2, 4, and 7/8 days. In the control hippocampus, GAP-43 mRNA was localized to CA1-CA3 and the hilus. Moderate increases in cellular signals were seen in hilar cells and granule cells early after ischemia, and some changes occurred in CA3 at late stages. Hybridization was lost in CA1 due to cell death. With immunostaining, GAP-43 was not seen in the cytoplasm of neurons, whereas dense labeling occurred in a differentiated pattern in the axonal and dendritic layers. At 1 day after ischemia, neurons in the hilus of the dentate gyrus and in the stratum pyramidale and lucidum of CA3 showed strong cytoplasmic labeling for GAP-43. Few cells were labeled in these regions at 2 days, and none at later stages. Pyramidal cells in CA1 and CA3 areas and granule cells were never labeled. These studies demonstrate a transient expression of GAP-43 mRNA and protein in a subset of vulnerable neurons after transient brain ischemia. The cytoplasmic localization in hilar neurons could be due to increased synthesis of GAP-43 or to changes in axoplasmic transport. It is suggested that axonal damage occurs in hilar cells which stimulates GAP-43 expression. The increased production of trophic factors after ischemia in granule cells could also cause plastic changes in hilar cells. Since hilar neurons are in a strategic position to control the excitability of the dentate area, increased expression of GAP-43 may indicate an important pathophysiological process. In seizure experiments, strong expression of GAP-43 mRNA in granule cells was associated with abnormal mossy fiber sprouting and development of chronic epilepsy. The relevance of the minor GAP-43 mRNA upregulation after ischemia must be considered. The changes in CA3 neurons at several days after ischemia might represent a plastic response to a loss of CA1 neurons.
Previously we reported that grafts of cells genetically modified to produce human nerve growth factor (hNGF) promoted specific and robust sprouting of spinal sensory, motor, and noradrenergic axons. In the present study we extend these investigations to assess NGF effects on corticospinal motor axons and on functional outcomes after spinal cord injury. Fibroblasts from adult rats were transduced to express human NGF; control cells were not genetically modified. Fibroblasts were then grafted to sites of midthoracic spinal cord dorsal hemisection lesions. Three months later, recipients of NGF-secreting grafts showed deficits on conditioned locomotion over a wire mesh that did not differ in extent from control-lesioned animals. On histological examination, NGF-secreting grafts elicited specific sprouting from spinal primary sensory afferent axons, local motor axons, and putative cerulospinal axons as previously reported, but no specific responses from corticospinal axons. Axons responding to NGF robustly penetrated the grafts but did not exit the grafts to extend to normal innervation territories distal to grafts. Grafted cells continued to express NGF protein through the experimental period of the study. These findings indicate that 1) spinal cord axons show directionally sensitive growth responses to neurotrophic factors, 2) growth of axons responding to a neurotrophic factor beyond an injury site and back to their natural target regions will likely require delivery of concentration gradients of neurotrophic factors toward the target, 3) corticospinal axons do not grow toward a cellular source of NGF, and 4) functional impairments are not improved by strictly local sprouting response of nonmotor systems.
Levodopa is the most efficacious and widely used symptomatic drug for Parkinson's disease (PD). There is currently, however, a great deal of interest focused on the possibility that levodopa-induced increases in dopamine (DA) turnover may increase oxidative damage derived from the breakdown of DA. Increased oxidative damage following levodopa may contribute to the progressive degeneration of remaining host nigral neurons as well as interfere with development and function of embryonic nigral neurons in neural grafting trials. There is abundant evidence that levodopa is toxic to embryonic nigral DA neurons in both cell culture and neural grafting models. These findings have prompted a number of studies on mechanisms of levodopa toxicity to identify effective means of ameliorating potential oxidative stress related to levodopa in PD. In the current study we have utilized cultures of embryonic nigral DA neurons to address the fundamental question of whether levodopa-induced toxicity is related to DA production or whether dopa itself contributes to cell death. We compared the degree of nigral DA cell death following chronic administration of: 1) levodopa (e.g.: l-dopa); 2) its less active stereoisomer d-dopa; and 3) DA. We examined the rank order of toxicity of these compounds in two species of rats, Fisher 344 (F344) and Sprague-Dawley (SD). Results indicate a toxicity profile of: DA &gt; l-dopa &gt; d-dopa. In addition, although there was no difference in response of F344 and SD cultures to l-dopa, the SD cultures were significantly more susceptible to the neurotoxic effects of DA. Taken collectively, these results suggest that levodopa-induced toxicity is related primarily to DA production rather than oxidation of dopa to toxic metabolites, and that some strain related differences do exist.
In animal models of Parkinson's disease, transplanted fetal mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons can innervate the dopamine-depleted host brain, but it is unclear why large portions of the host striatum are left uninnervated. During normal development, the dopaminergic innervation first occurs in the form of a dense patchy pattern in the striatum, followed by a widespread nerve fiber network. Using intraocular double grafts we have investigated dopaminergic growth patterns initiated when ventral mesencephalic grafts innervate striatal targets. The fetal lateral ganglionic eminence was implanted into the anterior eye chamber. After maturation in oculo, fetal ventral mesencephalon was implanted and placed in contact with the first graft. In other animals the two pieces of tissue were implanted simultaneously. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemistry revealed a pattern of dense TH-positive patches throughout the total volume of the striatal grafts in simultaneously transplanted cografts, while a widespread, less dense, pattern was found when mature striatal transplants were innervated by fetal dopaminergic grafts. To investigate which type or types of growth patterns that developed after grafting to striatum in situ of an adult host, fetal ventral mesencephalic tissue was implanted into the lateral ventricle adjacent to the dopamine-lesioned striatum. After maturation of the mesencephalic graft, the fetal lateral ganglionic eminence was implanted into the reinnervated part of the host striatum. TH immunohistochemistry revealed a few nerve fibers within the striatal graft and the growth pattern was of the widespread type. In conclusion, grafted dopaminergic neurons preferably innervate mature striatum with a widespread sparse nerve fiber network, while the innervation of the immature striatum occurs in the form of dense patches. Furthermore, when the patchy pattern is formed, the total volume of the striatal target is innervated while growth of the widespread type terminates prior to reaching distal striatal parts. Thus, the growth pattern seems essential to the final volume that is innervated. Once the widespread growth pattern is initiated, the presence of immature striatum does not change the dopaminergic growth pattern.
Addition of embryonic striatal tissue, usually as a combination of the lateral and medial ganglionic eminences, to intrastriatal mesencephalic grafts has previously been reported to enhance recovery of drug-induced rotational behavior in the host and to modify axonal fiber outgrowth from the grafted dopaminergic neurons. This study investigated the effects of adding (cografting) either lateral or medial ganglionic eminence tissue to embryonic mesencephalic grafts implanted intrastriatally, in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. The cografts did not exhibit increased survival or cell size of dopaminergic neurons when compared to transplants of mesencephalic tissue alone. Neither did recipients of cografts exhibit any enhancement of graft-induced recovery of function, when tested for drug-induced rotational behavior or forelimb function in the staircase test. However, cografts containing lateral ganglionic eminence displayed patches of dense tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers within the graft tissue. These patches largely coincided with patches in adjacent stained sections, which were rich in immunostaining for the striatal-specific marker dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-32 (DARPP-32). Such patches were not present in rats receiving cografts containing medial ganglionic eminence or mesencephalic tissue alone. Thus, it seems that the grafted dopaminergic neurons preferentially grow into the areas of the transplants containing lateral ganglionic eminence tissue. In summary, the results suggest that embryonic lateral ganglionic eminence exerts trophic effects on the outgrowth of dopaminergic axons, but does not enhance the behavioral effects of grafted dopaminergic neurons.
In vitro growth properties of three CNS-derived cell lines were compared under a variety of culture conditions. The M213-20 and J30a cell lines were each derived from embryonic CNS culture with the temperature-sensitive (ts) allele of SV40 large T antigen, tsA58, while the A7 cell line was immortalized using wild-type SV40 large T antigen. Cells immortalized with tsA58 SV40 large T proliferate at the permissive temperature, 33 degrees C, while growth is expected to be suppressed at the nonpermissive temperature, 39.5 degrees C. Both the M213-20 and J30a cell lines were capable of proliferating at 39.5 degrees C continuously for up to 6 mo. All three cell lines showed no appreciable differences in growth rates related to temperature over a 7-day period in either serum-containing or defined serum-free media. The percentage of cells in S-phase of the cell cycle did not decrease or was elevated at 39.5 degrees C for all three cell lines. After 3 wk at 39.5 degrees C, the three cell lines also showed positive immunostaining using two monoclonal antibodies reacting with different epitopes of SV40 large T antigen. Double strand DNA sequence analyses of a 300 base pair (bp) fragment of the large T gene from each cell line, which included the ts locus, revealed mutations in both the J30a and M213-20 cell lines. The J30a cell line ts mutation had reverted to wild type, and two additional loci with bp substitutions with predicted amino acid changes were also found. While the ts mutation of the M213-20 cells was retained, an additional bp substitution with a predicted amino acid change was found. The A7 cell line sequence was identical to the reference wild-type sequence. These findings suggest that (a) nucleic acid sequences in the temperature-sensitive region of the tsA58 allele of SV40 large T are not necessarily stable, and (b) temperature sensitivity of cell lines immortalized with tsA58 is not necessarily retained.
In order to illuminate functional roles of microglial cells within neural allografts, we have transplanted both whole and microglial and endothelial cell-depleted E14 neural cell suspensions into the intact striatum of Sprague-Dawley rats. Following posttransplantation times of up to 30 days, the intrastrial allografts were analyzed histochemically using the Griffonia simplicifolia B4 isolectin, a marker for both microglia and blood vessels. Our results indicate that both whole and depleted suspension grafts develop identically in terms of neovascularization and microglial colonization. In both types of transplants microglial cells appeared before any blood vessels were apparent. The main phase of graft vascularization occurred between days 7 and 10 posttransplantation and neovascularization was complete by day 21, as revealed by quantitative image analysis. Microglial cells, which were present as ameboid cells during early posttransplantation times, underwent continuing cell differentiation with time that paralleled graft vascular development. By 30 days posttransplantation microglia within the grafts had assumed the fully ramified phenotype characteristic of resting adult microglia. During graft development and vascularization, microglia were often seen in close proximity to ingrowing blood vessels and vascular sprouts. In conclusion, our study has shown that microglial colonization of grafts and graft vascularization occurs independent of donor-derived microglial and endothelial cells, and suggests that the great majority of microglia and vessels within the graft are host derived. We hypothesize that the host microglia invading the allografts play an active role in promoting graft neovascularization.
Neurotransplantation has been proposed as a potential treatment for the neurodegenerative disorder of Huntington's disease (HD), which currently has no effective therapy. While patients with Parkinson's disease have received neurotransplantation, until recently no HD patients have undergone transplantation for HD with standardized evaluations of their progress following surgery. The current report presents the cognitive changes in three patients with HD who underwent bilateral transplantation of human fetal striatal tissue. As part of the pre- and postsurgical evaluation, all three patients were administered a neuropsychological battery sensitive to the cognitive effects of HD within 2 mo prior to surgery and at 4-6 mo following transplantation. Four to 6 mo subsequent to surgery, all patients demonstrated increased scores on some measures of cognitive functioning. However, the pattern of changes was not uniform across subjects. These findings suggest that fetal striatal transplantation may improve some of the cognitive symptoms associated with HD in the three reported patients.

We developed a modified anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody (Ab) assay based on a radioreceptor assay and a calibration curve. We compared the analytical and clinical performances of this modified assay with those of the conventional anti-AChR Ab radioreceptor assay. Serum specimens were from patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) (n = 156) and from control subjects (n = 106). The modified assay demonstrated lower within-assay (4.0-6.6%) and between-assay (5.3-7.8%) CVs, greater linearity, lower cost, and shorter assay time than the conventional method. ROC curve analysis indicated almost identical specificity and sensitivity (&gt; 0.92) for these two anti-AChR Ab assays. The modified and conventional assays were also equivalent for blocking anti-AChR Ab assay. Moreover, the modified anti-AChR Ab assay, differently from the conventional assay, allowed us to reveal anti-AChR Ab concentration differences among different clinical grades of MG.
We studied immunohistochemically the expression pattern of a neural cell adhesion molecule, L1, in various human migration disorders associated with polymicrogyria: 4 fetuses and 11 infants having Fukuyama type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD) (4 cases), Zellweger syndrome (6) or thanatophoric dysplasia (3) and intrauterine brain damages (2) at different development stages, comparing to age-matched controls. There were different patterns of L1 expression, which suggested at least 3 pathogenetic mechanisms: high expression associated with neuoraxonal overgrowth (fetal FCMD and destructive event at intermigratory period); delayed expression with neuronal dysmaturation and dysmyelinogenesis (late infantile stage of Zellweger syndrome); no expression in toxic or destructive brain injury (Zellweger syndrome or destructive events at inter-or postmigratory periods).
Squirrel monkeys display an interest in novel places, habituate to new situations, and spend most of their daily activity in the wild in large groups engaging in feeding behaviors over a broad area. Captivity limits these behaviors and consequently may disrupt normal social organizations. In captivity, squirrel monkeys may exhibit stereotypical behaviors that are believed to indicate decreased psychologic well-being. When a monkey's behavior can be made to approach that seen in the wild, and stereotypical behaviors are minimal, it is assumed that psychologic well-being is adequate. Environmental enrichment devices have been used to address the Animal Welfare Act requirement that psychologic well-being of captive nonhuman primates be considered. The purpose of the study reported here was to examine whether various environmental enrichment devices improve the psychologic well-being of captive squirrel monkeys. In the study, we used behavioral observation to quantify the effectiveness of several environmental enrichment devices for reducing stereotypical behaviors in squirrel monkeys housed alone or in groups. Analysis of our results revealed that the environmental enrichment devices did not affect the expression of normal or stereotypical behaviors, but that the type of housing did.
Data collected as part of the Canadian Study of Health and Aging were analyzed to determine whether physiological changes associated with Alzheimer's disease are common to other types of dementia and are related more to the severity of cognitive impairment. We found that blood pressure and body mass index decreased with increasing dementia severity in both probable Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. There were no differences in mean random blood glucose levels or serum osmolarities between types or stages of dementia. We conclude that certain 'hypometabolic' features are associated with dementia severity and are not unique to Alzheimer's disease.
Notch genes encode transmembrane receptors that interact with numerous signal transduction pathways and are essential for animal development. To facilitate analysis of vertebrate Notch gene function, we isolated cDNA fragments of three novel Notch genes from zebrafish (Danio rerio), Notch1b, Notch5 and Notch6. Notch1b is a second zebrafish Notch1 gene. From analysis of the Notch1b sequence we argue that the various vertebrate Notch gene subfamilies encode receptors with different signalling specificities. Notch5 and Notch6 represent novel vertebrate Notch gene subfamilies. Remarkably, Notch1b lacks expression in presomitic mesoderm, Notch5 is expressed in a metameric pattern within the presomitic mesoderm whilst Notch6 expression is excluded from the nervous system. The expression patterns of these genes suggest important roles in gastrulation, somitogenesis, tail bud extension, myogenesis, heart development and neurogenesis. We discuss the implications of our observations for Notch gene evolution and function.
Nicotine is a potent stimulus for the secretion of ACTH, and norepinephrinergic neurons originating in the brainstem are involved. Prior reports using in vivo microdialysis in alert rats have shown that nicotine, administered i.p. or into the fourth ventricle, stimulated the release of norepinephrine (NE) into the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), the site of neurons containing CRH. In the present studies, rats received an i.v. infusion of nicotine into the jugular vein on alternate days during their active (dark) phase; therefore, direct correlations between the levels of NE microdialyzed from the PVN and plasma ACTH could be made in each animal. Nicotine administered i.v. (0.045-0.135 mg/kg) elicited dose-dependent increases in both NE and ACTH (P &lt; 0.01). A significant correlation was found between nicotine-stimulated NE release in the PVN and ACTH secretion (r = 0.91, P &lt; 0.01). To address whether the site(s) of action of nicotine was on presynaptic receptors on NE terminals in the PVN or on receptors on neurons in brainstem regions accessible from the fourth ventricle, the nicotinic cholinergic antagonist, mecamylamine (0.1-4.8 microg), was microinjected directly into the PVN or into the fourth ventricle before nicotine infusion. Fourth-ventricular administration of mecamylamine (1.6 microg) or higher, before i.v. nicotine (0.09 mg/kg), completely blocked both NE release in the PVN (IC50 = 0.64 microg) and ACTH secretion (IC50 = 0.40 microg) (P &lt; 0.01, compared with vehicle before nicotine), whereas it was ineffective when injected directly into the PVN. The results demonstrate that the nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the brainstem, rather than presynaptic receptors within the PVN itself, mediate nicotine-stimulated PVN NE release and ACTH secretion.
Epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulates gonadotropin secretion, suggesting that it may regulate gonadotrope functions. These responses may be modulated by changes in expression of EGF receptors (EGFR), especially during the estrous cycle. To test this hypothesis, EGFR and pituitary hormones were detected by dual immunocytochemistry. Pituitary cells from metestrous rats contained 41 +/- 4% cells labeled for EGFR. This peak was followed by a decline to 17.6 +/- 2% of cells from proestrous rats. The percentages of metestrous pituitary cells with EGFR and each hormone were: PRL, 11.8 +/- 1; ACTH, 9.9 +/- 1.8%; GH, 8.2 +/- 0.6%; TSH, 6.3 +/- 0.8%; FSH, 4 +/- 0.6%; and LH, 2.6 +/- 0.6%. The relatively low percentages of gonadotropes may have reflected the low expression of LH or FSH antigens during metestrus. Dual labeling for EGFR and LHbeta or FSHbeta messenger RNAs (mRNAs) showed a significant increase in the percentages of pituitary cells with LHbeta mRNA and EGFR (to 5.7% of pituitary cells), but there were no increases in the EGF target cells bearing FSHbeta mRNA. When gonadotropin antigens were detected in EGF target cells during other stages of the cycle, there was an increase to reach a peak of 6.6-7% of pituitary cells by the morning of proestrus (or 40-50% of gonadotropes). To summarize, EGFR are seen in few gonadotropes during the metestrous peak, although more LH cells (but not FSH cells) can be identified by their content of LHbeta mRNA. This suggests that EGFR is expressed initially in monohormonal LH gonadotropes. The peak expression of EGFR by gonadotropes during diestrus and proestrus suggests that EGF may be involved in the development of the gonadotropes as they approach surge secretory activity. It also may help stimulate the transcription of new gonadotropin beta-subunit mRNA seen late in proestrus, early in estrus.
Free radicals and oxidative stress-induced neuronal cell death have been implicated in a variety of neurological disorders. Therefore, neuroprotection is of primary interest in basic and preclinical neuroscience. Here it is shown that RU486 (mifepristone), a potent antagonist of progesterone and glucocorticoid receptors, protects rat primary hippocampal neurons, clonal mouse hippocampal cells and organotypic hippocampal slice cultures against oxidative stress-induced neuronal cell death. 10(-5) M RU486 prevents intracellular peroxide accumulation and cell death induced by amyloid beta protein, hydrogen peroxide and glutamate, neurotoxins that have been implicated in certain neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease. RU486 has a significant protective effect that is independent of the presence and activation of glucocorticoid or progesterone receptors. The neuroprotective activity of this well-studied drug may have an impact on therapeutic interventions for neurodegenerative conditions which involve peroxidation processes, such as stroke and Alzheimer's disease.
In a modified Geller-Seifter conflict procedure, rats were trained to lever-press for food under a multiple variable interval-fixed ratio (VI30: food; FR10: food + shock) schedule of reinforcement. The ability to antagonize response suppression in the punished period is considered a good predictor for anxiolytic activity. Chlordiazepoxide and alprazolam increased punished responding. The 5-HT1A receptor agonists flesinoxan (R(+)-N-[2[4-(2,3-dihydro-2-2-hydroxymethyl-1,4-benzodioxin-5-yl)- 1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-4-fluorobenzoamide; 0.1-10.0 mg/kg) and 8-OH-DPAT (8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propyl-amino)tetralin; 0.03-0.5 mg/kg) significantly increased punished responding, supporting a role of the 5-HT1A receptor in anxiety. 8-OH-DPAT and flesinoxan also reduced unpunished responding. The anxiolytic effects of 8-OH-DPAT and flesinoxan could only be antagonized with a high dose (1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg respectively) of the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY-100635 (N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl) cyclohexanecarboxamide trihydrochloride). All doses of WAY-100635 antagonized the 5-HT1A-induced effects on unpunished responding. The dissimilarity in dose-response curve of WAY-100635 on punished and unpunished behaviour poses questions about the mediation of these effects.

Tricyclic antidepressants have been shown to be useful for the treatment of pain of varying etiology. Monoaminergic systems seem to be implicated in this phenomenon. In this study, the influence of the selective beta 1- (CGP 20712A) and beta 2- (ICI 118551) adrenergic blockers on the antinociceptive effect of desipramine and nortriptyline was studied in mice using physical and chemical nociceptive tests that implicate different levels of sensory-motor integration in the central nervous system (CNS). An activity test was performed to detect &quot;false positive&quot; or &quot;false negative&quot; results. Results obtained show that both CGP 20712A and ICI 118551 are able to antagonize the antinociceptive effect of these antidepressants in physical tests (hot-plate and tail-flick). However, in chemical tests (acetic acid and formalin), the analgesic effect of the antidepressants used was only antagonized by CGP 20712A. These results suggest that the analgesic effect of desipramine and nortriptyline is mediated by beta-adrenoceptors. The beta-adrenoceptor involved depends on the type of nociceptive stimulus: beta 1 and beta 2 are both implicated when the stimulus is physical, but only beta 1 is involved when the stimulus is chemical.
The influence of age on NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) was characterized in striatal in vitro brain slices using intracellular recording techniques. All slices were bathed in bicuculline methiodide (20 microM) to isolate EPSPs from intrinsic inhibition and Mg2+ was omitted from the artificial cerebral spinal fluid to reduce voltage-dependent fluctuations of NMDA receptor-mediated EPSPs. The NMDA receptor-mediated component of the EPSP was determined by comparing EPSP areas before and after block of NMDA receptors with 5-amino-phosphonovaleric acid (AP-5; 30 microM). No age difference was found in the percentage contribution of the NMDA receptor-mediated component of the EPSP, but an age difference was observed in the response to removal of AP-5. On average, washout of AP-5 produced a significant enhancement of the EPSP in young cells, while in aged cells the EPSP returned, on average, to the pre-AP-5 control level. These data demonstrate that NMDA receptors contribute equally to EPSPs at young and aged synapses and that age-related decreases in the number of NMDA receptors may be related to synapse loss. In addition, the response to removal of AP-5 suggests that functional properties of NMDA receptors may also be altered by aging.
The effects of a protein kinase C (PKC) activator, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), on the activity and periaqueductal gray (PAG)-induced inhibition of rat dorsal horn neurons of the lumbar spinal cord were tested. A microdialysis fiber was placed through the dorsal horn for the purpose of local application of pharmacological agents. Extracellular single-unit recordings from dorsal horn neurons were made near the microdialysis fiber. TPA was tested on nociceptive dorsal horn cells. There was a significant increase in the background activity and responses to &quot;brush&quot;, with no changes in responses to pressure and pinch stimuli. TPA also significantly blocked the PAG-induced inhibition of responses to brush, press, and pinch. These effects were eliminated by coadministration of the PKC inhibitor NPC-15437. The solvent, which contained dimethyl sulfoxide, was also tested for its effect on the responses to peripheral mechanical stimuli and PAG-induced inhibition of the dorsal horn neurons. There were no significant changes. This experiment suggests that activation of the PKC second messenger system might increase the activity of dorsal horn neurons and their responses to peripheral stimuli; in addition, the phorbol ester attenuated the PAG-induced descending inhibition of the dorsal horn neuron activity.
The time course of the astroglial cell reaction in the nucleus gracilis and the spinal cord dorsal horn was examined following sciatic nerve transection in the adult rat with qualitative and quantitative analysis of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity and in situ hybridization for its mRNA. In addition, the potential effect of exogenous nerve growth factor (NGF) was examined on the astroglial and microglial cells in the spinal cord dorsal horn at certain time points following sciatic nerve transection. An increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity as well as mRNA labelling was observed from 1 day after lesioning, with a peak at about 1 week and 2 days after lesioning, respectively, followed by a decline. However, NGF application during 1, 2 and 4 weeks following nerve transection did not result in any significantly reduced astroglial or microglial activity. Our results show that the astroglial cell response in the nucleus gracilis and the spinal cord dorsal horn is rapid in comparison with previously described central degenerative changes following peripheral nerve lesions (transganglionic degeneration), that the astroglial cell reaction develops concomitantly with the microglial cell reaction previously described and that the &quot;signal&quot; from the axotomized neurons which induces these reactions can not be prevented by exogenous NGF applied to the peripheral nerve.
Cellular retinaldehyde binding protein (CRALBP) is present in Mller glia and in cells of the retinal pigment epithelium, but we have recently observed CRALBP-like immunoreactivity near the inner limiting membrane in the newborn mouse retina. The present study has examined whether this protein is present in developing retinal astrocytes. Retinal tissue was collected at various embryonic and postnatal ages and in adulthood. Tissue for immunohistochemistry was fixed by immersion in 4% paraformaldehyde and immunostained using rabbit polyclonal antisera to CRALBP or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), while fresh tissue was homogenized for Western analysis. Specificity of the antiserum for the 33 kDa protein was shown in retinal homogenates by immunoblotting, with expression of the protein increasing steadily from E15.5 through adulthood. Immunostaining of sections from fetal eye-cups revealed faint labeling of cells in the optic nerve, with progressive migration of CRALBP-immunoreactive cells into the retina at the inner limiting membrane during the perinatal period. By the day of birth, these cells were intensely immunoreactive, showing a morphology characteristic of migrating astrocytes. These CRALBP-immunoreactive cells mimicked the progressive infiltration of GFAP-positive astrocytes which are known to migrate into the retina from the optic nerve head, many of which were double-labeled with GFAP. Their distribution across the retina is distinct from that of the lighter-staining Mller glial somata during these stages, and they are not misidentified Mller glial endfeet. Astrocytes are only transiently CRALBP-immunoreactive, no longer containing the protein after the second post-natal week. Preincubation of the antiserum with purified CRALBP abolished all staining of astrocytes. Coupled with the fact that only a single (approximately 33 kDa) molecular weight protein is labeled by the antiserum, it was concluded that retinal astrocytes contain CRALBP during a limited period of development.
Fetal spinal cord tissue grafts have been advocated as a possible repair strategy for spinal cord injury. In the present study, we used intraocular spinal cord grafts to model the interactions which may occur between fetal and adult spinal cord after making such a graft and to study to which extent functional connections can be expected to occur between the host and graft tissue. We first grafted fetal spinal cord to the anterior chamber of the eye where it was allowed to mature. A second piece of fetal spinal cord was then sequentially grafted in contact with the first graft. Electrophysiological recordings made from the older graft while electrically stimulating the younger graft provided evidence for an excitatory innervation from the younger spinal cord graft to the mature spinal cord which appeared to be glutamatergic. However, we only rarely found excitatory inputs from the first, mature spinal cord graft to the younger graft. Fiber connections between the two spinal cord grafts were verified by retrograde tracing and neurofilament immunohistochemistry. In no case was a trophic influence on graft volume observed between spinal cord grafts regardless of whether the transplantations were performed sequentially or at the same time. Even the introduction of a second graft to immature spinal cord tissue was ineffective. In contrast, we found a marked trophic, neuron-rescuing effect of spinal cord grafts upon cografts of fetal dorsal root ganglia. This latter observation is consistent with the hypothesis that spinal cord tissue can exert a trophic effect on developing sensory ganglia and demonstrates that many sensory neurons can survive in the presence of a central target and in the absence of the appropriate peripheral target. These intraocular experiments predict that fetal spinal cord grafted to the injured adult spinal cord may develop effective excitatory inputs with the host, while host-to-graft inputs may develop to a considerably smaller extent. Our results also suggest that the adult spinal cord does not exert marked trophic effects on growth of fetal spinal cord, while it does exert a trophic influence on central projections of dorsal root ganglia.
In the kindling model of epilepsy, repeated electrical stimulations lead to progressive and permanent intensification of seizure activity. We find that the development of amygdala kindling is markedly retarded in mice heterozygous for a deletion of the neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) gene (NT-3+/- mice). These mice did not reach the fully kindled state (3rd grade 5 seizure) until after 28 +/- 4 days of stimulation compared to 17 +/- 2 days in the wild-type animals. The deficit in the NT-3+/- mice reflected dampening of the progression from focal to generalized seizures. The number of stimulations required to evoke focal (grade 1 and 2) seizures did not differ between the groups, but the NT-3 mutants spent a considerably longer period of time (13 +/- 3 days) than wild-type mice (2 +/- 1 days) in grade 2 seizures. As assessed by test stimulation 4-12 weeks after the 10th grade 5 seizure, kindling was maintained in the NT-3 mutants. In situ hybridization showed 30% reduction of basal NT-3 mRNA levels and lack of upregulation of TrkC mRNA expression at 2 h after a generalized seizure in dentate granule cells of the NT-3+/- mice, whereas the seizure-evoked increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and TrkB mRNA levels was enhanced. These results indicate that endogenous NT-3 levels can influence the rate of epileptogenesis, and suggest a link between NT-3 and BDNF gene regulation in dentate granule cells.
The Drosophila lark gene encodes an essential RNA-binding protein of the RNA recognition motif (RRM) class that is required during embryonic development. Genetic analysis demonstrates that it also functions as a molecular element of a circadian clock output pathway, mediating the temporal regulation of adult emergence in the fruitfly. We now report the molecular characterization of a human gene with significant similarity to lark. Based on fluorescence in situ hybridization and radiation hybrid mapping, the human gene has been localized to chromosome region 11q13; it is closely linked to several identified genes including the locus of Bardet-Biedl syndrome type 1. The lark-homologous human gene expresses a single 1.8-kb size class of mRNA in most or all tissues including brain. Additional database searches have identified a mouse counterpart that is virtually identical to the human protein. Similar to lark protein, both mammalian proteins contain two copies of the RRM-type consensus RNA-binding motif. Unlike most RRM family members, however, the Drosophila and mammalian proteins also contain a retroviral-type (RT) zinc finger that is situated 43 residues C-terminal to the second RRM element. Within a 184-residue segment spanning the RRM elements and the RT zinc finger, the human and mouse proteins are 61% similar to the Drosophila lark sequence. These common sequence features and comparisons among a large collection of RRM proteins suggest that the human and mouse proteins represent homologues of Drosophila lark.
By incorporating information from the neurosciences, the study discussed in this article supports the view that schizophrenia is a diverse and biopsychosocial phenomenon. Forty-two people with schizophrenia were placed in one of two groups: people with a larger ventricle-to-brain ratio (VBR) or cortical atrophy (CA) or both and people without these conditions. The authors hypothesized that the former would have lower levels of psychosocial adaptation, higher levels of stress, and lower levels of self-esteem and would have a different course of illness than people without these two conditions. The study found few differences between the two groups, but there were significant differences between women and men and between African American and white participants. Implications for social work practice in the area of serious mental illness are discussed.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes are a group of rare genetic disorders that compromise neuromuscular transmission. A subset of these disorders, the slow-channel congenital myasthenic syndrome (SCCMS), is dominantly inherited and has been shown to involve mutations within the muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR). We have identified three new SCCMS mutations and a further familial case of the alpha G153S mutation. Single channel recordings from wild-type and mutant human AChR expressed in Xenopus oocytes demonstrate that each mutation prolongs channel activation episodes. The novel mutations alpha V156M, alpha T254I and alpha S269I are in different functional domains of the AChR alpha subunit. Whereas alpha T254I is in the pore-lining region, like five of six previously reported SCCMS mutations, alpha S269I and alpha V156M are in extracellular domains. alpha S269I lies within the short extracellular sequence between M2 and M3, and identifies a new region of muscle AChR involved in ACh binding/channel gating. alpha V156M, although located close to alpha G153S which has been shown to increase ACh binding affinity, appears to alter channel function through a different molecular mechanism. Our results demonstrate heterogeneity in the SCCMS, indicate new regions of the AChR involved in ACh binding/channel gating and highlight the potential role of mutations outside the pore-lining regions in altering channel function in other ion channel disorders.
In this paper, the authors describe a biomedical digital-signal interchange format. The format supports both raw and processed data, multiple segments, several signal structures and representations, and an open architecture. Its versatility and adaptability allows the software to take advantage of any particular features of the acquisition hardware. The format has been used and improved in routine work during a five-year period involving the cooperation between two hospitals and one engineering research center. In order to support the format, an object oriented C language library has been developed and is also shortly described.
A system for on-line spike detection and analysis based on an IBM PC/AT compatible computer, written in TURBO PASCAL 6.0 and using commercially available analog-to-digital hardware is described here. Spikes are detected by an adaptive threshold which varies as a function of signal mean and its variability. Since the threshold value is determined automatically by the signal-to-noise ratio analysis, the user is not actively involved in controlling its level. This program has been reliably used for the detection and analysis of the spike discharge of vestibular system afferent neurons. It generates the interval-joint distribution graph, the interval histogram, the autocorrelation function, the autocorrelation histogram, and phase-space graphs, thus, providing a complete set of graphical and statistical data for the characterization of the dynamics of neuronal spike activity. Data can be exported to other software such as Excel, Sigmaplot and MatLab, for example.

Exposure of male Albino Swiss rats to the nonsteroidal antiandrogen flutamide during the period from gestational day (d) 10 to birth resulted in feminisation of the external genitalia and the suppression of growth of the male reproductive tract. In adulthood, testes were found to be located in diverse positions. True cryptorchidism occurred in 10% of cases, whereas 50% of testes descended to the scrotum and 40% were located in a suprainguinal ectopic region. Varying degrees of tubule abnormality were seen in the testes of flutamide-treated animals, ranging from completely normal tubules with full spermatogenesis (and the expected frequency of the stages of spermatogenesis) to severely abnormal tubules lined with Sertoli cells only. For each individual testis, the overall severity of tubule damage was strongly correlated with its adult location, with intra-abdominal testes worst affected and scrotally-located testes least; only the latter contained normal tubules. Similarly, intra-abdominal testes were the smallest in weight and contained the least testosterone. By contrast, postnatal treatment of male rats with flutamide from birth to postnatal d 14 did not impair development of the external genitalia, the process of testicular descent or adult spermatogenesis. These findings confirm that androgen blockade during embryonic development interferes with testicular descent but also demonstrate that (1) prenatal flutamide treatment per se has a detrimental effect on adult testis morphology but (2) the degree of abnormality of the testes is strongly influenced by location.
We report autoradiographic measurements of the in vivo uptake of [3H]nimodipine during the nonischemic depolarization of cortical spreading depression (CSD) in rat brain. [3H]Nimodipine uptake in brain was determined regionally in rats undergoing CSD (n = 8) and was significantly increased in cortex (14 +/- 7%) and hippocampus (10 +/- 6%) on the stimulated side relative to the contralateral hemisphere when compared with the same measurements in a control group (n = 8). A similar measurement using the physiologically inert radiotracer [14C]iodoantipyrine to control for potential effects of CSD on radioligand distribution showed a minimal increase (2.4 +/- 0.7%) of radiotracer uptake in cortex after CSD. This increase was significantly less than that observed in the [3H]nimodipine uptake studies. We hypothesize that increased in vivo [3H]nimodipine uptake in CSD identifies regions of depolarization and thus infers activation of the L-type voltage sensitive calcium channels.
CART (cocaine and amphetamine regulated transcript) is a novel, brain-enriched mRNA which predicts a novel protein without homology to any known protein or peptide. In situ hybridization studies have identified many expression sites in the brain and periphery as well as clarify its expression in three known areas. CART mRNA has been localized to ganglion cells of the retina, lamina X of the spinal cord, mitral and tufted cells of the olfactory bulb, barrel field neurons of the somatosensory cortex, the anterior pituitary, and the medulla of the adrenal cortex. The two alternatively spliced CART variants present in the rat brain were found to have identical and overlapping distributions in the rat forebrain. This central nervous system expression pattern suggests a role for CART in processing of peripheral sensory information. Its localization within the pituitary completes its identification within the three levels of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and perhaps suggests a role in mediating stress responses. CART's distribution and predicted protein sequence is reminiscent of characteristics shared by many brain neuropeptides such as proopiomelanocortin; CART may encode a new peptide transmitter or signaling molecule.
In the kidney, nitric oxide synthase (NOS) of the neuronal isoform (nNOS) is predominantly located in the macula densa cells. Unspecific chronic NOS inhibition in rats leads to elevated blood pressure (P(A)), associated with increased renal vascular resistance. This study was designed to examine the effect of chronic selective inhibition of nNOS with 7-nitro indazole (7-NI) on P(A), GFR, and the tubuloglomerular feedback (TGF) system. P(A) was repeatedly measured by a noninvasive tail-cuff technique for 4 wk in rats treated orally with 7-NI, and in control rats. After treatment, the animals were anesthetized and renal excretion rates, GFR, and TGF activity were determined. After 1 wk of 7-NI treatment P(A) was increased from 129+/-4 to 143 2 mmHg. GFR (1.85+/-0.1 vs. 1.97+/-0.2 ml/min in controls) was unchanged, but micropuncture studies revealed a more sensitive TGF than in controls. After 4 wk of 7-NI treatment P(A) was 152+/-4 mmHg, but no change in GFR (1.90+/-0.5 ml/min) or TGF sensitivity was detected. Acute administration of 7-NI to nontreated rats did not affect P(A), but decreased GFR (1.49+/-0.1 ml/min) and increased TGF sensitivity. In conclusion, chronic nNOS inhibition leads to increased P(A). Our results suggest that the elevated P(A) could be caused by an initially increased TGF sensitivity, leading to decreased GFR and an increased body fluid volume.



The display of complex color patterns of the cuttlefish Sepia officinalis is under the regulation of the FMRFamide-related peptide (FaRP) family, but their exact identities are unknown. We report the isolation and characterization of a full-length FaRP cDNA from the brain of S. officinalis. This cDNA is 1850 base pairs long, including an open reading frame of 996 base pairs. The cDNA encodes a precursor protein containing four FaRPs: ALSGDAFLRF, FIRF, FLRF and FMRF. Each propeptide has a C-terminal glycine residue that is presumably converted post-translationally to an amide. Every FaRP propeptide is also flanked by basic amino acid residues at the amino and carboxy termini, indicative of putative cleavage sites during post-translational processing. Each of the four FaRPs encoded by this cDNA causes chromatophore expansion when assayed in an in vitro chromatophore bioassay. Thus, it is likely that one or more of the FaRPs identified in this study are involved in controlling chromatophore activity in cuttlefish.
A computerized 360 degrees panorama allowed us to suppress most of the locomotion-induced visual feedback of a freely walking fly without neutralizing its mechanosensory system ('virtual open-loop' conditions). This novel paradigm achieves control over the fly's visual input by continuously evaluating its actual position and orientation. In experiments with natural visual feedback (closed-loop conditions), the optomotor turning induced by horizontal pattern motion in freely walking Drosophila melanogaster increased with the contrast and brightness of the stimulus. Conspicuously striped patterns were followed with variable speed but often without significant overall slippage. Using standard open-loop conditions in stationary walking flies and virtual open-loop or closed-loop conditions in freely walking flies, we compared horizontal turning induced by either horizontal or vertical motion of appropriately oriented rhombic figures. We found (i) that horizontal displacements and the horizontal-motion illusion induced by vertical displacements of the oblique edges of the rhombic figures elicited equivalent open-loop turning responses; (ii) that locomotion-induced visual feedback from the vertical edges of the rhombic figures in a stationary horizontal position diminished the closed-loop turning elicited by vertical displacements to only one-fifth of the response to horizontal displacements; and (iii) that virtual open-loop responses of mobile flies and open-loop responses of immobilized flies were equivalent in spite of delays of up to 0.1 s in the generation of the virtual stimulus. Horizontal compensatory turning upon vertical displacements of oblique edges is quantitatively consistent with the direction-selective summation of signals from an array of elementary motion detectors for the horizontal stimulus components within their narrow receptive fields. A compensation of the aperture-induced ambiguity can be excluded under these conditions. However, locomotion-induced visual feedback greatly diminished the horizontal-motion illusion in a freely walking fly. The illusion was used to assay the quality of open-loop simulation in the new paradigm.
Chemokines are a family of small m.w. cytokines that induce chemotaxis and chemokinesis of leukocytes. These molecules are ligands for seven-transmembrane, Gi protein-linked receptors that induce a signaling cascade in human T cells and provide costimulation for T cell activation, in addition to participating in transendothelial migration of leukocytes. To address the role of chemokines in the regulation of Th cell cytokine production, we utilized an OVA-specific TCR transgenic (Tg+) model. Cells stimulated through the TCR and incubated in the presence of macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha) showed enhanced IFN-gamma production, whereas cells incubated in the presence of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) showed enhanced IL-4 production. Similar results were obtained whether TCR Tg+ T cells were stimulated with anti-CD3 mAb or OVA peptide. Primary stimulation of T cells in the presence of chemokines, followed by secondary stimulation and tertiary stimulation with anti-TCR clonotype mAb alone (no exogenous chemokines), revealed an enhanced IFN-gamma production for MIP-1alpha stimulation and IL-4 production for MCP-1 stimulation. Naive Tg+ T cells, obtained from Tg+ mice crossed to RAG-1-deficient mice, showed enhanced IFN-gamma production when incubated with MIP-1alpha and enhanced IL-4 production when incubated with MCP-1. These results suggest CC chemokines play a role in regulating naive Th cell cytokine production, in addition to regulating leukocyte trafficking.
Chloride channels in the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) are thought to play an essential role in excitation-contraction (E-C) coupling by balancing charge movement during calcium release and uptake. In this study the nucleotide-sensitivity of Cl- channels in the SR from rabbit skeletal muscle was investigated using the lipid bilayer technique. Two distinct ATP-sensitive Cl- channels that differ in their conductance and kinetic properties and in the mechanism of ATP-induced channel inhibition were observed. The first, a nonfrequent 150 pS channel was inhibited by trans (luminal) ATP, and the second, a common 75 pS small chloride (SCl) channel was inhibited by cis (cytoplasmic) ATP. In the case of the SCl channel the ATP-induced reversible decline in the values of current (maximal current amplitude, Imax and integral current, I') and kinetic parameters (frequency of opening FO, probability of the channel being open PO, mean open TO and closed Tc times) show a nonspecific block of the voltage- and Ca2+-dependent SCl channel. ATP was a more potent blocker from the cytoplasmic side than from the luminal side of the channel. The SCl channel block was not due to Ca2+ chelation by ATP, nor to phosphorylation of the channel protein. The inhibitory action of ATP was mimicked by the nonhydrolyzable analogue adenylylimidodiphosphate (AMP-PNP) in the absence of Mg2+. The inhibitory potency of the adenine nucleotides was charge dependent in the following order ATP4- &gt; ADP3- &gt; &gt; &gt; AMP2-. The data suggest that ATP-induced effects are mediated via an open channel block mechanism. Modulation of the SCl channel by [ATP]cis and [Ca2+]cis indicates that (i) this channel senses the bioenergetic state of the muscle fiber and (ii) it is linked to the ATP-dependent cycling of the Ca2+ between the SR and the sarcoplasm.
Clonal central nervous system neuronal cells, B103, do not synthesize detectable endogenous APP or APLP. B103 cells transfected with both wild-type (B103/APP) and mutant APP construct (B103/APP delta NL) secreted comparable amounts of soluble forms of APP (sAPP). B103/APP cells produced sAPP and cleaved at amyloid beta/A4 (A beta) 16, the alpha-secretase site, and B103/APP delta NL cells produced sAPP beta cleaved at A beta 1, the beta-secretase site. B103/APP delta NL cells developed fewer neurites than B103/APP cells in a serum-free defined medium. Neurite numbers of parent B103 cells were increased by the 50% conditioned medium (CM) from B103/APP cells but reduced by the CM from B103/APP delta NL cells. Chemically synthesized A beta at concentration levels higher than 1 nM reduced numbers of neurites from B103 or B103/APP delta NL cells. However, A beta at 1-100 nM could not reduce the neurite number of B103/APP cells. The protective activity against A beta's deleterious effect to reduce neurite numbers was attributed to sAPP alpha in the CM. Although sAPP alpha could block the effect of A beta, sAPP beta could not do so under the identical condition, suggesting the importance of the C-terminal 15-amino acid sequence in sAPP alpha. Nevertheless, sAPP alpha's protective activity required the N-terminal sequence around RERMS, previously identified to be the active domain of sAPP beta. The overall effect of APP mutation which overproduced A beta and sAPP beta and underproduced sAPP alpha was a marked decline in the neurotrophic effect of APP. We suggest that the disruption of balance between the detrimental effect of A beta and the trophic effect of sAPP may be important in the pathogenesis of AD caused by this pathogenic APP mutation.
Alternative splicing of precursor RNA enables a single gene to encode multiple protein isoforms with different functional characteristics and tissue distributions. Differential splicing of Drosophila Shaker (Sh) gene transcripts regulates the tissue-specific expression of kinetically distinct potassium ion channels throughout development. Regulation of Sh alternative splicing is being examined in germline transformants using lacZ as a reporter gene. P-element constructs were generated in which one or both of the two mutually exclusive Sh 3' acceptor sites were positioned in the same translational reading frame as the lacZ coding sequences. The constructs were introduced into the germline and the transgenic animals examined for tissue-specific beta-galactosidase expression patterns. Some tissues exhibit &quot;promiscuous&quot; splicing; these tissues are competent to splice to either 3' acceptor even when both are present on the same pre-mRNA. In other tissues splice choice results from competition between the two 3' sites; these tissues can splice to either site when it is the only available 3' acceptor, but when given a choice will splice to only one of the two 3' acceptors. In some tissues, splicing occurs exclusively at only one of the 3' acceptor sites; these tissues are not competent to splice to one of the sites even if it is the only 3' acceptor present on the pre-mRNA. These results suggests that multiple, distinct regulatory modes are operating to control tissue-specific alternative splicing of Sh 3' domains and are discussed in terms of potential underlying mechanisms for regulating the tissue-specific expression of alternatively spliced genes.
Tryptophan hydroxylase, the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter serotonin, is activated by protein kinase A and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase. One important aspect of the regulation of any enzyme by a phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cascade, and one that is lacking for tryptophan hydroxylase, lies in the identification of its site of phosphorylation by protein kinases. Recombinant forms of brain tryptophan hydroxylase were expressed as glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins and exposed to protein kinase A. This protein kinase phosphorylates and activates full-length tryptophan hydroxylase. The inactive regulatory domain of the enzyme (corresponding to amino acids 1-98) was also phosphorylated by protein kinase A. The catalytic core of the hydroxylase (amino acids 99-444), which expresses high levels of enzyme activity, was neither phosphorylated nor activated by protein kinase A. Conversion of serine-58 to arginine resulted in the expression of a full-length tryptophan hydroxylase mutant that, although remaining catalytically active, was neither phosphorylated nor activated by protein kinase A. These results indicate that the activation of tryptophan hydroxylase by protein kinase A is mediated by the phosphorylation of serine-58 within the regulatory domain of the enzyme.
The sigma ligand 1,3-di-O-tolylguanidine (DTG) increased basal dynamin and decreased depolarization-stimulated phosphorylation of the synaptosomal protein synapsin Ib without having direct effects on protein kinases or protein phosphatases. DTG dose-dependently decreased the basal cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) and blocked the depolarization-dependent increases in [Ca2+]i. These effects were inhibited by the sigma antagonists rimcazole and BMY14802. The nitric oxide donors sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and 8-(p-chlorophenylthio)guanosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate decreased basal [Ca2+]i and the KCI-evoked rise in [Ca2+]i to an extent similar to DTG. SNP, but not DTG, produced a rise in cyclic GMP levels, suggesting that the effect of DTG on [Ca2+]i was not mediated via downstream regulation of cyclic GMP levels. DTG increased 45Ca2+ uptake and efflux under basal conditions and inhibited the 45Ca2+ uptake induced by depolarization with KCI. The KCI-evoked rise in [Ca2+]i was inhibited by omega-conotoxin (omega-CgTx)-GVIA and -MVIIC but not nifedipine and omega-agatoxin-IVA. The effect of DTG on decreasing the KCI-evoked rise in [Ca2+]i was additive with omega-CgTx-MVIIC but not with omega-CgTx-GVIA. These data suggest that DTG was producing some of its effects on synapsin I and dynamin phosphorylation and intrasynaptosomal Ca2+ levels via inhibition of N-type Ca2+ channels.
Transient global cerebral ischemia affects phospholipid metabolism and features a considerable increase in unesterified fatty acids. Reincorporation of free fatty acids into membrane phospholipids during reperfusion following transient ischemia depends on conversion of fatty acids to acyl-CoAs via acyl-CoA synthetases and incorporation of the acyl group into lysophospholipids. To study the effect of ischemia-reperfusion on brain fatty acid and acyl-CoA pools, the common carotid arteries were tied for 5 min in awake gerbils, after which the ligatures were released for 5 min and the animals were killed by microwave irradiation. Twenty percent of these animals (two of 10) were excluded from the ischemia-reperfusion group when it was demonstrated statistically that brain unesterified arachidonic acid concentration was not elevated beyond the range of the control group. Brain unesterified fatty acid concentration was increased 4.4-fold in the ischemic-reperfused animals, with stearic acid and arachidonic acid increasing the most among the saturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids, respectively. The total acyl-CoA concentration remained unaffected, indicating that reacylation of membrane lysophospholipids is maintained during recovery. However, there was a substantial increase in the stearoyl- and arachidonoyl-CoA and a marked decrease in palmitoyl- and docosahexaenoyl-CoA. These results suggest that unesterified fatty acid reacylation into phospholipids is reprioritized according to the redistribution in concentration of acyl-CoA molecular species, with incorporation of stearic acid and especially arachidonic acid being favored.
Changes in the tissue levels of 3-methoxytyramine (3-MT), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA), and dopamine in the frontal cortex, hypothalamus, nucleus accumbens, and striatum were evaluated after 0.5-4 h of footshock (2 mA, for 3 s every 30 +/- 5 s) in Fischer rats. 3-MT, DOPAC, and HVA levels in the four brain areas peaked at 0.5 h and in most cases returned to baseline values within 4 h. No changes were found in dopamine levels. Repeated footshock stress was evaluated by administering 10 footshock sessions (0.5 h, two per day for 5 days). At the end of the 10th footshock session, 3-MT levels were higher than at the end of the first footshock session in three of the four brain regions, indicating sensitization of dopamine release. No differences were found between the first and 10th footshock sessions in DOPAC and HVA levels. Fourteen days after the 10th footshock session, the levels of 3-MT, DOPAC, and HVA were the same as in control rats in all four brain regions. A 0.5-h footshock challenge presented 14 days after the 10th footshock session attenuated DOPAC levels in the hypothalamus and nucleus accumbens. In contrast, DOPAC and HVA levels in the frontal cortex showed sensitization after footshock challenge, and a similar trend was apparent for 3-MT levels. These results indicate that repeated footshock stress induces generalized sensitization of dopamine release and turnover in some areas of the brain of Fischer rats. This sensitization may persist in the cortical but not subcortical dopamine neurons after discontinuation of the treatment.
Hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) is a long-lasting and rapidly induced increase in synaptic strength. Previous experiments have determined that persistent activation of protein kinase C (PKC) contributes to the early maintenance phase of LTP (E-LTP). Using the back-phosphorylation method, we observed an increase in the phosphorylation of a 21-kDa PKC substrate, termed p21, 45 min after LTP was induced in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. p21 was found to have the same apparent molecular weight as the 18.5-kDa isoform of myelin basic protein (MBP) and was recognized by an antibody to MBP in western blotting and immunoprecipitation. Furthermore, p21 from control and potentiated hippocampal slices and purified MBP have identical phosphopeptide maps when back-phosphorylated and then digested with either endoproteinase Lys-C or endoproteinase Asp-N, suggesting that p21 and MBP are identical proteins. As there was no observed change in the amount of MBP in LTP, the increase in MBP phosphorylation during LTP cannot be explained by a change in the amount of protein. From these experiments, we conclude that the phosphorylation of the 18.5-kDa isoform of MBP is increased during E-LTP.
Male and female Long-Evans adult rats were adrenalectomized and sacrificed 6 weeks later to determine whether dentate gyrus damage would differ in females and males. A subset of adrenalectomized rats of both sexes had significantly reduced dentate gyrus volumes compared to the same sex SHAM operated rats. The remainder of the male and female adrenalectomized rats which did not have clear dentate gyrus damage had significantly larger dentate gyrus volumes compared to the same sex SHAM rats. The dentate gyrus volumes of all adrenalectomized rats were significantly correlated with two indices of residual hormonal levels (Na+/K+ ratios and body weight gain 6 weeks after surgery), indicating that endogenous corticosterone levels may be a determining factor in the response of the dentate gyrus to adrenalectomy. These dentate gyrus volumetric changes could not be attributed to tissue shrinkage as there were no changes in CA3 volumes in any of the groups. These results suggest that long-term adrenalectomy can result in either increased or decreased dentate gyrus volumes and that the adrenal steroid levels of each individual adrenalectomized rat may be the factor determining the direction of the dentate gyrus volumetric response.
The expression of the costimulatory molecule B7-1 (BB-1; CD80) and its ligand CD28 was investigated on peripheral blood (PB) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) T and B lymphocytes and monocytes in 11 patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) 21 age-matched healthy controls and 10 patients with central nervous system (CNS) infectious disease (CID). Three channel flow cytometry was used with a novel gating technique in order to unambiguously identify the low numbers of B lymphocytes present in normal CSF. There was a significantly higher fraction of B7-1+ B lymphocytes in the CSF of patients with MS (72%) and CID (69%) when compared with healthy individuals (53%; p &lt; 0.0001 and p &lt; 0.002, respectively). Furthermore, two patients with a clinical picture of encephalitis showed a profoundly increased B7-1 expression on CSF monocytes. Comparison of absolute numbers of B7-1+ B lymphocytes/mL CSF between MS patients and healthy controls revealed a highly increased frequency of these cells among MS patients (235 cells/mL in MS patients versus 3.9 cells/mL in controls; p &lt; 0.0001) with no overlap between the groups, which was otherwise seen for all other analyzed cell populations. We therefore hypothesize that activated B lymphocytes expressing high levels of B7-1 may be of pathogenetic importance in the development and maintenance of the MS disease.


Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second leading cause of cognitive impairment among the elderly. While it is usually accompanied by the neocortical neuritic plaques (NP) and entorhinal neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) characteristic of Alzheimer disease (AD), and so can be construed as a Lewy body variant of AD (LBV), it also occurs in pure form as diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD). We assessed cognitive status in 17 DLB patients (12 with LBV and 5 with DLBD) and compared the results with 12 AD subjects and 5 controls. We then sought to determine which neuropathologic abnormalities correlated with cognitive impairment. Among DLB cases, neocortical Lewy body (LB) counts, modified Braak stages of NFT burden in the entorhinal cortex, neocortical NP counts, and loss of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity all correlated with dementia severity. Unlike AD, neocortical NFT and anti-synaptophysin reactivity were uncorrelated with DLB dementia. Despite comparable LB counts and ChAT losses, the DLBD were significantly less demented than the LBV patients. We conclude that neocortical LB and ChAT depletion contribute to cognitive impairment in DLB and that concomitant AD pathology in LBV, represented by higher Braak stages and NP, promotes increased dementia severity compared with that encountered in DLBD.
Chronic stimulation (for 2-3 mo) of the medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscle nerve by indwelling electrodes renders the normally heterogeneous MG muscle mechanically and histochemically slow (type SO). We tested the hypothesis that motoneurons of MG muscle thus made type SO by chronic stimulation would also convert to slow phenotype. Properties of all single muscle units became homogeneously type SO (slowly contracting, nonfatiguing, nonsagging contraction during tetanic activation). Motoneuron electrical properties were also modified in the direction of type S, fatigue-resistant motor units. Two separate populations were identified (on the basis of afterhyperpolarization, rheobase, and input resistance) that likely correspond to motoneurons that had been fast (type F) or type S before stimulation. Type F motoneurons, although modified by chronic stimulation, were not converted to the type S phenotype, despite apparent complete conversion of their muscle units to the slow oxidative type (type SO). Muscle units of the former type F motor units were faster and/or more powerful than those of the former type S motor units, indicating some intrinsic regulation of motor unit properties. Experiments in which chronic stimulation was applied to the MG nerve cross-regenerated into skin yielded changes in motoneuron properties similar to those above, suggesting that muscle was not essential for the effects observed. Modulation of group Ia excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) amplitude during high-frequency trains, which in normal MG motoneurons can be either positive or negative, was negative in 48 of 49 chronically stimulated motoneurons. Negative modulation is characteristic of EPSPs in motoneurons of most fatigue-resistant motor units. The general hypothesis of a periphery-to-motoneuron retrograde mechanism was supported, although the degree of control exerted by the periphery may vary: natural type SO muscle appears especially competent to modify motoneuron properties. We speculate that activity-dependent regulation of the neurotrophin-(NT) 4/5 in muscle plays an important role in controlling muscle and motoneuron properties.
Cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons were voltage clamped at -90 mV to study the effects of intracellular application of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (betaNAD+), intracellular flash photolysis of caged 3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), and metabotropic glutamate receptor activation. The activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors evoked inward Ca2+-dependent currents in most cells. This was mimicked both by intracellular flash photolysis of the caged axial isomer of cGMP [P-1-(2-nitrophenyl)ethyl cGMP] and intracellular application of betaNAD+. Whole cell Ca2+-activated inward currents were used as a physiological index of raised intracellular Ca2+ levels. Extracellular application of 10 microM glutamate evoked the activation of Ca2+-dependent inward currents, thus reflecting a rise in intracellular Ca2+ levels. Similar inward currents were also activated after isolation of metabotropic glutamate receptor activation by application of 10 microM glutamate in the presence of 20 microM 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and 20 microM dizocilpine maleate (MK 801), or by extracellular application of 10 microM trans-(1S,3R)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid. Intracellular photorelease of cGMP, from its caged axial isomer, in the presence of betaNAD+ was also able to evoke similar Ca2+-dependent inward currents. Intracellular application of betaNAD+ alone produced a concentration-dependent effect on inward current activity. Responses to both metabotropic glutamate receptor activation and cGMP were suppressed by intracellular ryanodine, chelation of intracellular Ca2+ by bis-(o-aminophenoxy)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid, and depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores, but were insensitive to the removal of extracellular Ca2+. Therefore both cGMP, possibly via a mechanism that involves betaNAD+ and/or cyclic ADP-ribose, and glutamate can mobilize intracellular Ca2+ from ryanodine-sensitive stores in sensory neurons.
Rat neocortical brain slices generated rhythmic extracellular field [microelectroencephalogram (micro-EEG)] oscillations at theta frequencies (3-12 Hz) when exposed to pharmacological conditions that mimicked endogenous ascending cholinergic and GABAergic inputs. Use of the specific receptor agonist and antagonist carbachol and bicuculline revealed that simultaneous muscarinic receptor activation and gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABA(A))-mediated disinhibition were necessary to elicit neocortical oscillations. Rhythmic activity was independent of GABA(B) receptor activation, but required intact glutamatergic transmission, evidenced by blockade or disruption of oscillations by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, respectively. Multisite mapping studies showed that oscillations were localized to areas 29d and 18b (Oc2MM) and parts of areas 18a and 17. Peak oscillation amplitudes occurred in layer 2/3, and phase reversals were observed in layers 1 and 5. Current source density analysis revealed large-amplitude current sinks and sources in layers 2/3 and 5, respectively. An initial shift in peak inward current density from layer 1 to layer 2/3 indicated that two processes underlie an initial depolarization followed by oscillatory activity. Laminar transections localized oscillation-generating circuitry to superficial cortical layers and sharp-spike-generating circuitry to deep cortical layers. Whole cell recordings identified three distinct cell types based on response properties during rhythmic micro-EEG activity: oscillation-ON (theta-ON) and -OFF (theta-OFF) neurons, and transiently depolarizing glial cells. Theta-ON neurons displayed membrane potential oscillations that increased in amplitude with hyperpolarization (from -30 to -90 mV). This, taken together with a glutamate antagonist-induced depression of rhythmic micro-EEG activity, indicated that cholinergically driven neocortical oscillations require excitatory synaptic transmission. We conclude that under the appropriate pharmacological conditions, neocortical brain slices were capable of producing localized theta frequency oscillations. Experiments examining oscillation physiology, pharmacology, and topography demonstrated that neocortical brain slice oscillations share many similarities with the in vivo and in vitro theta EEG activity recorded in other brain regions.
Cutaneous stimulation within the rostral scratch receptive field in a low spinal-immobilized turtle elicits a fictive rostral scratch reflex characterized by robust rhythmic motor output from ipsilateral hindlimb muscle nerves and weaker, alternating motor discharge in contralateral nerves. Simultaneous bilateral stimulation elicits bilateral rostral scratch motor patterns in which activity on the right and left sides alternates. We investigated the role of glycinergic inhibition in the generation and coordination of fictive rostral scratch motor patterns. Glycine (2 or 5 mM) and strychnine (5-50 microM), a glycine antagonist, were superfused over the anterior spinal hindlimb enlargement while fictive rostral scratch motor output was recorded bilaterally from hindlimb muscle nerves in the form of electroneurograms (ENGs). Although glycine reduced rostral scratch burst frequencies, strychnine tended to increase burst frequency. Strychnine also changed the shape of hip flexor ENG bursts, resulting in more abrupt burst onsets, indicating an earlier recruitment of motor neurons with large ENG spikes. During bilateral stimulation, strychnine increased the variability of interlimb phase values (left vs right hip flexor bursts) but did not abolish right-left alternation. These results indicate that glycinergic neurons in or near the anterior hindlimb enlargement contribute to the overall timing of the rostral scratch rhythm and to the recruitment timing of individual hip flexor motor neurons within each scratch burst. Our data also indicate that glycinergic mechanisms contribute to, but are not critically important for, maintaining an alternating interlimb coordination during bilateral scratch motor patterns.
Central sensitization of spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons in anesthetized monkeys after intradermal injection of capsaicin depends in part on disinhibition. Protein kinase C is suggested to participate in this process. The present study shows that the nitric oxide-cGMP (NO-cGMP) signal transduction system also contributes to sensitization of wide dynamic range (WDR) STT neurons located in the deep dorsal horn. The NO-cGMP system was activated by microdialysis administration into the dorsal horn of 8-bromo-cGMP, an analog of cGMP. Sensitization of STT cells by 8-bromo-cGMP increased the responses of deep WDR STT cells to both weak and strong mechanical stimulation of the skin and simultaneously attenuated the inhibition of the same neurons produced by stimulation in the periaqueductal gray (PAG). In contrast, WDR STT cells in the superficial dorsal horn and high-threshold (HT) STT cells in superficial or deep layers showed reduced responses to mechanical stimulation of the skin after infusion of 8-bromo-cGMP, and PAG inhibition of these neurons was unaffected. Sensitization of STT cells and the attenuation of PAG inhibition induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin were prevented by preteatment of the dorsal horn with a guanylate cyclase inhibitor, 1 H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one. The results support the hypothesis that activation of the NO-cGMP signal transduction system contributes to the sensitization of WDR STT neurons in the deep dorsal horn and helps explain why intradermal capsaicin injections often fail to sensitize superficial and HT STT cells. The results also support the idea that sensitization of STT cells is produced in part by disinhibition.
Neuronal responses to visual stimuli that are correlated on a millisecond time scale are well documented in several areas of the mammalian visual cortex. This coherent activity often takes the form of synchronous rhythmic discharges ranging in frequency from 20 to 70 Hz. We performed experiments to determine the incidence and properties of this rhythmic activity in the striate cortex of alert cats and to compare this activity to similar data collected in the striate cortex of anesthetized cats. The results demonstrate that optimal visual stimuli evoke robust, locally synchronous, 20-70 Hz oscillatory responses in the striate cortex of cats that are fully alert and performing a visual fixation task. The oscillatory activity is stimulus dependent, largely absent during periods of spontaneous activity, and shows a systematic increase in frequency with increasing stimulus velocity. Thus, the synchronous oscillatory activity observed in this and earlier studies cannot be explained as an artifact of anesthesia nor as a phenomenon that occurs independent of visual stimulation. Rather, it is a robust process that is present in the alert state and is dependent on the presence and specific properties of visual stimuli.
Toward identifying molecules involved in cell-cell interactions during cerebral cortical development, we have investigated the nature of immunoglobulin-like immunoreactivity (Ig-ir) in the murine cortex. Immunohistochemistry using several antisera recognizing IgG revealed intense immunoreactivity in the subplate and marginal zone of embryonic day 16 cortex, as well as in the hindbrain and spinal cord, particularly within ventral fiber tracts. In three independently derived mouse strains lacking the recombination activating genes RAG-1 or RAG-2, which are essential for Ig production, Ig-ir was absent from the fetal CNS. Western blot analyses of wild-type brains from embryonic day 12 through birth identified a 25 kDa protein that co-migrated with Ig light chain and was absent from RAG-1 or RAG-2 -/- brain samples. This result could be replicated with an antiserum specific for Ig kappa light chain, but not with antisera specific for Ig gamma or mu heavy chain. No Ig-ir was detected in the brains of RAG-1 +/- embryos carried by a -/- female, suggesting a maternal source of the immunoreactive molecule. In confirmation of this, Ig-ir could be partially reproduced by intraperitoneal injection of pregnant RAG-1 -/- females with normal mouse serum. We conclude that maternally derived Ig light chain is present in the fetal murine CNS. This may represent a novel maternal contribution to fetal neural development and implicates Ig molecules as potential mediators of cortical developmental events.
Alcohol-related events have been proposed to be under neurochemical control. For example, the concentration of methionine enkephalin (Met-enkephalin) in brain has been inversely correlated with ethanol consumption in alcohol-preferring and alcohol-nonpreferring mice. The concentrations of Met-enkephalin are controlled in part by peptide transport system-1 (PTS-1), a brain-to-blood transport system for Met-enkephalin located at the blood-brain barrier. We examined the relationships among concentrations of Met-enkephalin, preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA, and PTS-1 activity in mice exposed to ethanol. PTS-1 activity decreased progressively during the process of addiction and then partially recovered within hours after withdrawal of ethanol. Serotonin lost its ability to modulate PTS-1 activity in exposed mice, indicating that regulation of PTS-1 activity was affected by ethanol. Concentrations of Met-enkephalin tended to move in the opposite direction from PTS-1 activity, increasing significantly with addiction. In naive mice, PPE mRNA levels correlated with the concentrations of Met-enkephalin. However, levels of PPE mRNA remained unchanged during addiction, withdrawal, and recovery, no longer correlating with concentrations of Met-enkephalin. These results suggest that ethanol affects concentrations of Met-enkephalin in brain through post-transcriptional mechanisms and that PTS-1 activity is one of those mechanisms.
Calpains have importance in human neurodegenerative disease pathogenesis, but these mechanisms are difficult to study in postmortem tissues. To establish a cellular model of the human calpain and calpastatin system, we characterized calpain I, calpain II, and calpastatin in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells in relation to their counterparts in human brain and investigated their expression and activity after inducing cellular differentiation with retinoic acid (RA), a physiological effector of normal brain development. Calpain I in both SH-SY5Y cells and human brain existed in the cytosolic and particulate fractions as three isoforms (80, 78, and 76 kDa) and exhibited atypical isoelectric focusing behavior. Calpain II in SH-SY5Y cells, as in human brain, migrated as a single predominantly cytosolic 76-kDa protein with an isoelectric point ranging from 5.9 to 6.3. Calpastatin from both sources was also 90% cytosolic. In the cells it was composed of four discrete bands, ranging in molecular weight from 110 to 127 kDa. Levels of activated (76 and 78 kDa) and precursor (80 kDa) calpain I isoforms rose 54% (P &lt; 0.0001) in the particulate fraction and 26% (P &lt; 0.0001) in the soluble fraction after 3 days of RA exposure. Because levels and activity of calpastatin remain unchanged during the first 7 days of RA exposure, the increased abundance of calpain I implies a net activation of the calpain system during differentiation. Calpain I activation may contribute to the remodeling of cell shape and neurite extension/retraction associated with neuronal differentiation.
It is well established that behavioral sensitization to psychomotor stimulants is associated with adaptations in the mesoaccumbens dopamine (DA) system. We showed previously that the responsiveness of ventral tegmental area (VTA) DA neurons to glutamate was significantly enhanced in amphetamine- and cocaine-pretreated rats tested after 3 days of withdrawal, which suggests that adaptations in excitatory amino acid transmission also contribute to sensitization. The purpose of the present study was to determine the subtype of excitatory amino acid receptor responsible for this effect and to examine its persistence during withdrawal. Extracellular single cell recording and microiontophoresis were used to investigate possible alterations in the ability of glutamate agonists [(S)-alpha-amino-3- hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA), N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), and (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-t-ACPD)] to stimulate the firing of VTA DA neurons after 3 days of withdrawal from repeated administration of saline, cocaine or amphetamine. Current-response curves showed that responses to iontophoretic AMPA, but not NMDA or 1S,3R-t-ACPD were significantly enhanced in cocaine- or amphetamine-pretreated rats in that neurons entered into a state of apparent depolarization block at significantly lower iontophoretic currents. When rats were tested for responsiveness to iontophoretic glutamate after 14 days of withdrawal, there was no significant difference between cocaine- or amphetamine- and saline-pretreated rats with respect to glutamate current-response curves. These results suggest that increased responsiveness of AMPA receptors on VTA DA neurons may contribute to sensitization at early withdrawal times, but that this alteration, like others described within the VTA, is transient.
1. Intracellular recordings were made from neurones in the rat otic ganglion in vitro in order to investigate their morphological, physiological and synaptic properties. We took advantage of the simple structure of these cells to test for a possible role of calcium influx via nicotinic acetylcholine receptors during synaptic transmission. 2. Cells filled with biocytin comprised a homogeneous population with ovoid somata and sparse dendritic trees. Neurones had resting membrane potentials of -53 +/- 0.7 mV (n = 69), input resistances of 112 +/- 7 M omega, and membrane time constants of 14 +/- 0.9 ms (n = 60). Upon depolarization, all cells fired overshooting action potentials which were followed by an apamin-sensitive after-hyperpolarization (AHP). In response to a prolonged current injection, all neurones fired tonically. 3. The repolarization phase of action potentials had a calcium component which was mediated by N-type calcium channels. Application of omega-conotoxin abolished both the repolarizing hump and the after-hyperpolarization suggesting that calcium influx via N-type channels activates SK-type calcium-activated potassium channels which underlie the AHP. 4. The majority (70%) of neurones received innervation from a single preganglionic fibre which generated a suprathreshold excitatory postsynaptic potential mediated by nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The other 30% of neurones also had one or more subthreshold nicotinic inputs. 5. Calcium influx via synaptic nicotinic receptors contributed to the AHP current, indicating that this calcium has access to the calcium-activated potassium channels and therefore plays a role in regulating cell excitability.



Contrary to long-held beliefs, plasticity occurs in the adult cerebral cortex, and allows the brain to adapt to background modifications or to damage of the nervous system. Cortical changes occurring following focal visual deafferentation modify visual perception, by filling in visual field defects with information from the area surrounding the scotoma. This causes affected subjects to ignore or underestimate their defects. With visual field defects, cortical plasticity also causes distortion in spatial perception. In ophthalmological daily practice, the effects of cortical plasticity are prominent, but are usually unrecognized. They result in unawareness of field defects following retinal photocoagulation, and cause delay in recognizing visual field defects, they e.g., in early stages of simple chronic glaucoma. In addition affect the results of some procedures for testing the visual field, and increase patients' difficulty in coping with activities in everyday life. It is important to introduce into clinical practice the concept of dissociation between actual and perceived defects in the visual field, resulting from the filling-in process. It can be demonstrated using a &quot;double Amsler grid test&quot;.
Clinical pathways are tools for cost containment and quality improvement in the managed care environment. This report describes our experience with developing and implementing a clinical pathway for acoustic neuroma surgery. Intensive care unit bed days and inpatient hospitalization days for cerebellopontine angle surgery significantly decreased during the months that the pathway was developed, and the incidence of complications was unchanged after adoption of the algorithm. We conclude that with joint neurootology and neurosurgery leadership clinical pathways can be a safe, cost-effective, and clinically useful technique in acoustic neuroma surgery in a managed care setting. As this management scheme evolves, surgeons must take the leadership to ensure that decisions are based on clinically relevant parameters.
Classical conditioning procedures instill knowledge about the temporal relationships between events. The unconditioned stimulus (US) is the event to be timed. The conditioned response (CR) is viewed as a prediction of the imminence of the US. Knowledge of the elapsed time between conditioned stimuli (CSs) and US delivery is expressed in the topological features of the CR. The peak amplitude of the CR coincides with the timing of the US. A simple connectionist network based on Sutton and Barto's Time Derivative (TD) Model of Pavlovian Reinforcement provides a mechanism that can account for and simulate CR timing in a variety of protocols. This article describes extensions of the model to predictive timing under temporal uncertainty. The model is expressed in terms of equations that operate in real time according to a competitive learning rule. The unfolding of time from the onsets and offsets of events such as CSs is represented by the propagation of activity along a sequence of time-tagged elements. The model can be aligned with anatomical circuits of the cerebellum and brain stem that are essential for learning and performance of conditioned eye-blink responses.
To study the role of the mossy fiber afferents to the cerebellum in classical eye-blink conditioning, in particular the timing of the conditioned responses, we compared the effects of varying a peripheral conditioned stimulus with the effects of corresponding variations of direct stimulation of the mossy fibers. In one set of experiments, decerebrate ferrets were trained in a Pavlovian eye-blink conditioning paradigm with electrical forelimb train stimulation as conditioned stimulus and electrical periorbital stimulation as the unconditioned stimulus. When stable conditioning had been achieved, the effect of increasing the intensity or frequency of the forelimb stimulation was tested. By increasing the intensity from 1 to 2 mA, or the train frequency from 50 to 100 Hz, an immediate decrease was induced in both the onset latency and the latency to peak of the conditioned response. If the conditioned stimulus intensity/frequency was maintained at the higher level, the response latencies gradually returned to preshift values. In a second set of experiments, the forelimb stimulation was replaced by direct train stimulation of the middle cerebellar peduncle as conditioned stimulus. Varying the frequency of the stimulus train between 50 and 100 Hz had effects that were almost identical to those obtained when using a forelimb conditioned stimulus. The functional meaning of the latency effect is discussed. It is also suggested that the results support the view that the conditioned stimulus is transmitted through the mossy fibers and that the mechanism for timing the conditioned response is situated in the cerebellum.



Chronic exposure to nicotine has been reported to increase the number of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) in brain. The mechanism of up-regulation for the alpha4beta2 AChR subtype, which accounts for the majority of high affinity nicotine binding in mammalian brain, has previously been shown to involve a decrease in the rate of alpha4beta2 AChR turnover. Here, we report an investigation of the extent and mechanism of nicotine-induced up-regulation of alpha3 AChRs and alpha7 AChR subtypes expressed in the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y. Up-regulation of human alpha3 AChRs and alpha7 AChRs, unlike alpha4beta2 AChRs, requires much higher nicotine concentrations than are encountered in smokers; the extent of increase of surface AChRs is much less; and the mechanisms of up-regulation are different than with alpha4beta2 AChRs. The mechanisms of up-regulation may be different for alpha3 AChRs or alpha7 AChRs. Chronic treatment with nicotine or carbamylcholine, but not d-tubocurarine, mecamylamine, or dihydro-beta-erythroidine, induced a 500-600% increase in the number of alpha3 AChRs but only a 30% increase in alpha7 AChRs. Chronic nicotine treatment did not increase affinity for nicotine or increase the amount of RNA for alpha3 or alpha7 subunits. The effect of nicotine on up-regulation of alpha7 AChRs was partially blocked by either d-tubocurarine or mecamylamine. The effect of nicotine treatment on the number of alpha3 AChRs was only slightly blocked by the antagonists d-tubocurarine, mecamylamine, or dihydro-beta-erythroidine at concentrations that efficiently block alpha3 AChR function. Most of the nicotine-induced increase in alpha3 AChRs was found to be intracellular. The alpha3 AChRs, which accumulate intracellularly, were shown to have been previously exposed on the cell surface by their susceptibility to antigenic modulation. The data suggest that chronic exposure to nicotine may induce a conformation of cell surface alpha3 AChRs that at least in this cell line are consequently internalized but not immediately destroyed.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a clinico-pathological entity distinct from idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) that is responsible for 5-10% of cases of parkinsonism. Degeneration of nigral neurones is a feature of both diseases. A specific deficiency of mitochondrial complex I activity has been found in PD substantia nigra. We have analysed mitochondrial function in substantia nigra and platelets from MSA patients to identify any respiratory chain defect in this disorder and to determine its tissue specificity. As our MSA patients had been on L-DOPA, we also sought to establish whether this treatment could cause the complex I defect as seen in PD. We found no significant difference in respiratory chain activity corrected for mitochondrial mass between control and MSA patients in either of the tissues studied. These results provide a biochemical dimension to the differences between MSA and idiopathic PD. In addition, the fact that L-DOPA failed to induce a complex I defect in MSA substantia nigra suggests that this treatment is unlikely to cause the complex I deficiency in PD, without additional factors that may operate in PD.
The short-latency reflex myoclonus that appears to be characteristic of cortical-basal ganglionic degeneration (CBGD) was investigated in two patients. Stimulating the digital nerves of the middle finger caused exaggerated reflex activity in the first dorsal interosseus (FDI) muscle of that hand with a latency of 46-51 ms. Magnetic stimulation over the contralateral cortex, delivered 25 ms after the digital nerve stimulus, resulted in greater than expected facilitation of FDI, implying spatial summation. Poststimulus time histograms (PSTH) of individual FDI motor units indicated that this spatial summation was occurring &quot;upstream&quot; from the motoneurons. It is argued that this occurs at the motor cortex. Magnetic stimulation over the cortex in normal subjects results in short-latency facilitation of the contralateral motoneurons followed by inhibition. This inhibition was less in the patients with CBGD. It is argued that this results from the loss of an intrinsic cortical and corticothalamic inhibitory mechanism.

The possible involvement of nitric oxide in the prevention by morphine of apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced penile erection and yawning was investigated by measuring the concentration of NO2- and NO3- in the dialysate obtained with a vertical microdialysis probe implanted in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of male rats. Either apomorphine (80 micrograms/kg s.c.) or oxytocin (30 ng i.c.v.) increased significantly basal NO2- and NO3- concentration in the paraventricular dialysate, penile erection and yawning. Morphine (1.5 and 10 mg/kg i.p.) prevented dose-dependently either apomorphine or oxytocin responses when given 15 min before apomorphine or oxytocin. Prevention by morphine of apomorphine and oxytocin responses was abolished by naloxone (3 mg/kg i.p.) given 15 min before morphine. Morphine prevented apomorphine and oxytocin responses also when given in the lateral ventricles or directly in the paraventricular nucleus. In contrast, the selective agonist of the kappa opioid receptor subtype U-69,593 was found to be ineffective. The present results confirm previous findings showing that morphine acts through mu receptors in the paraventricular nucleus to prevent apomorphine and oxytocin-induced penile erection and yawning and suggest that this morphine effect is mediated by a decreased activity of nitric oxide in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus.
Microdensitometrical and stereological techniques were applied to study the effects of aging on the hippocampus of 3-, 6-, 12-, 18-, 24-, 30-, and 36-month-old male Brown Norway rats. Stereological analysis of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) immunoreactive glial cells in the CA1 area showed an age-dependent decrease in the number of cells, starting at 18 months of age. Specific mean gray values of the immunoreactivity for bFGF were reduced in the CA3 area, in the dentate gyrus, and in fields of the CA1 area, starting at 24 months of age. There were no differences between the age groups in the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein or glucocorticoid receptor (GR) immunoreactive cells of the CA1-CA2 areas. However, the intensity of the GR immunoreactivity was decreased in the 18-month-old and older rats. No changes in the immunoreactivity for the mineralocorticoid receptor were observed in the CA1-CA2 areas of any of the age groups. Spontaneous alternation test and reactivity in an open field did not reveal marked differences between the age groups. These findings give evidence that there is a loss of neural GR immunoreactivity, but no loss of GR immunoreactive neurons, in the CA1-CA2 areas of the aged Brown Norway rat. Aging may also be characterized by substantial deficits of glially derived growth factors, such as bFGF in the hippocampus. The changes in immunoreactivities were not correlated to alterations in selected behaviors dependent on normal hippocampal function.
Rats were pretreated with 0.9% NaCl, or 0.1 or 1.0 mg/kg MK-801, an anticonvulsant and a psychotomimetic drug, and 60 minutes later given ECS or sham ECS. After six sessions the animals were sacrificed and neuropeptide Y (NPY-), neurokinin A (NKA-), and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP-) like immunoreactivity (-LI) measured with radioimmunoassays. ECS increased NPY-LI in frontal cortex, striatum, occipital cortex and hippocampus, and NKA-LI in occipital cortex and hippocampus. MK-801 increased CGRP in a dose-response manner in frontal cortex, and NKA-LI in occipital cortex. Although the higher MK-801 dose reduced seizure duration by 50%, the ECS induced NPY-LI increase in striatum, occipital cortex and hippocampus, and NKA-LI in occipital cortex was not diminished. In contrast, there was a parallel decrease in seizures and NPY-LI and NKA-LI changes in frontal cortex and hippocampus, respectively. Investigation of neuropeptides in brain may contribute to understanding of the mechanisms of action of antidepressive and antipsychotic treatments and of psychotomimetic drugs.
We measured the concentration of neurotransmitters in immortalized neural cell lines of hippocampal, septal, brainstem and cerebellar origin. While in most of the cell lines, concentrations of monoamines, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and acetylcholine were low, in some they were markedly higher. This made it quite easy to identify possible monoaminergic, GABAergic or cholinergic cell lines. However all the cell lines contained glutamate and aspartate and there were no outstanding differences in levels of these amino acids differences between the cell lines. Deprivation of serum, which made the cells acquire a more differentiated morphology, caused an increase in the intracellular concentrations of some compounds and a switch from multiple to a single transmitter in the case of some cell lines. It suggested that measurement of transmitter concentrations combined with serum deprivation studies, may provide an indication of the neurochemical characteristics of immortalised neuronal cell lines.

No one has ever proven a relationship between the extent of response to chemotherapy in malignant glioma and time to progression or survival. We studied the predictive value of &quot;imaging response&quot; following two courses of nitrosourea-based chemotherapy in 136 patients with recurrent astrocytoma/malignant glioma. We performed image analysis by blinded side-to-side comparison of sequential studies, and categorized response into: partial response (PR) (&gt;50% reduction), minor response (MR) (25-50% reduction), stable disease (SD) (&lt;25% change), progressive disease (PD) (&gt;25% increase). Patients with PR, MR, and SD did not differ with respect to time to progression (TTP) (p &gt; 0.2) or survival (p &gt; 0.2). Median TTP was 27 weeks for SD, 43 weeks for MR, and 30 weeks for PR. Patients with PD had a significantly reduced survival (p &lt; 0.001). Median survival was 21 weeks for PD, 53 weeks for SD, 63 weeks for MR, and 48 weeks for PR. The lack of relationship between response and TTP may be due to early relapses in patients with response, a cytostatic benefit of chemotherapy in some patients who do not have an objective response, or a relatively favorable natural history in some tumors that do not respond to chemotherapy. Our data do not support the validity of current response grading, assessed after two courses of chemotherapy. Further research and validation of response criteria is necessary.
There is now considerable evidence from basic neuroscience that estrogen influences aspects of brain chemistry and brain morphology known to be important for memory functions. Prospective, controlled studies of surgically and naturally menopausal women demonstrated that exogenous estrogen enhanced short- and long-term memory and the capacity for learning new associations, whereas visual memory was unaffected. Healthy, 65 year-old women who took estrogen also performed significantly better than estrogen-nonusers who were matched for age, socioeconomic status, and years of formal education. Finally, in 32-year-old women with uterine myomas, a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRH-a) resulted both in ovarian suppression and in a decrease in verbal memory which was reversed by addition of estrogen to the GnRH-a treatment. Taken together, these findings suggest that estrogen helps to maintain verbal memory and enhances the capacity for new learning in women, whereas other cognitive functions such as verbal memory are seemingly unaffected by this steroid hormone.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is associated with an unstable expansion of CTG repeats located in the 3' untranslated region of a protein kinase-encoding gene (DMPK) on chromosome 19 (19q13.3). The CTG repeat number varies between 5 and 37 in lymphocytes of normal individuals, whereas DM patients may have expansions from 50 to several thousand copies. Although the CTG expansions related to myotonic dystrophy (DM) are usually larger in muscle compared to peripheral blood, the variation in repeat number in non-dystrophic muscle is not known. In order to investigate if there is a variation, the CTG-repeat number was determined in percutaneous muscle biopsies obtained from 86 individuals without any muscle disorder or with a neuromuscular disorder without any clinical or histopathological signs of DM. The number of CTG repeats varied between 5 and 28, this being within the normal range reported for peripheral blood. A major sharp peak at n = 5 (27%) and a broader peak at n = 8-17 (56%) with peak values at n = 12 and 14 (11 and 14%, respectively) were observed. Alleles with 19 or more repeats amounted to 17% with a small peak at n = 20 and 21 (6 and 4%, respectively). It is concluded that the normal variation of CTG-repeat number in skeletal muscle is within the range found in peripheral blood, although there is a slight shift in the overall frequency distribution towards alleles with CTG repeat numbers in the higher range.
We carried out fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) pulse sequences with long repetition and echo times in seven children with tuberous sclerosis, and compared them with conventional spin-echo (SE) sequences. FLAIR images exhibited higher sensitivity than conventional SE images to cortical and subcortical tubers. The low signal intensity of cerebrospinal fluid on FLAIR images allowed more accurate delineation of the cortical and subcortical tubers. However, T1-weighted imaging was still superior for delineation of subependymal nodules.
Social play behavior is one of the earliest forms of non-mother-directed social behavior appearing in ontogeny in mammalian species. During the last century, there has been a lot of debate on the significance of social play behavior, but behavioral studies have indicated that social play behavior is a separate and relevant category of behavior. The present review provides a comprehensive survey of studies on the neurobiology of social play behavior. Evidence is presented that opioid and dopamine systems play a role in the reward aspect of social play behavior. The role of cholinergic, noradrenergic and opioid systems in attentional processes underlying the generation of social play behavior and the involvement of androgens in the sexual differentiation of social play behavior in rats is summarized. It is concluded that there is not only behavioral, but also neurobiological evidence to suggest that social play behavior represents a separate category of behavior, instead of a precursor for adult social, sexual or aggressive behavior.
Nitric oxide synthase is co-localized with somatostatin and neuropeptide Y in a subpopulation of striatal interneurons that stain selectively for NADPH-diaphorase. We studied the ontogeny of diaphorase-positive neurons in striatal serum-free cultures derived from 15-16-day-old CD1 mice. NADPH-diaphorase staining was detected as early as embryological day 18 in vivo and day 5 in vitro. Over the next seven days the number of neurons staining for NADPH-diaphorase increased rapidly and then levelled off at about 0.5-1% of the total neuronal population both in vivo and in vitro. The cultured diaphorase neurons were also similar to their in vivo counterparts in terms of morphology and dendritic branching. Striatal neurons expressing NADPH-diaphorase exhibit similar ontogeny, morphology and neurochemical characteristics in vivo and in serum-free primary neuronal cultures. The culture system may represent a useful model for studying this important subgroup of striatal neurons.
The excitation of hypoglossal motoneurons innervating the genioglossus and geniohyoid muscles during transient jaw closing, the so-called jaw-closing reflex, was studied in cats. The application of diffuse pressure stimulation to the posterior palatal surface produced the jaw-closing reflex, and it was found that mechanosensory inputs from the posterior palatal mucosa sent excitatory synaptic inputs to both genioglossus and geniohyoid motoneurons. We demonstrated that, during the palatally induced jaw-closing reflex, the tongue extended at jaw closure and was still extended forward in the initial part of the opening phase. In five of 27 genioglossus motoneurons and nine of 23 geniohyoid motoneurons, the onset of burst was elicited before the onset of jaw closure. The remaining cells produced the onset of burst in the closing phase and in the initial part of the occlusal phase. However, the onset of excitatory postsynaptic potentials was 75-180 ms (n=20), earlier than that of jaw closure. During the jaw-closing reflex, the genioglossus and geniohyoid motoneurons were excited during the same phase of jaw movements and there was no difference in the onset of firing between the genioglossus and geniohyoid motoneurons. It is concluded that the excitation of the genioglossus and geniohyoid motoneurons may be associated with tongue protrusions during the palatally induced jaw-closing reflex.
Intracellular concentrations of sodium, potassium and calcium together with membrane potentials were measured in cultured murine cortical neurons and glial cells under conditions which mimicked in vivo hypoxia, ischemia and hypoglycemia. These included; glucose omission with and without added pyruvate, addition of rotenone in the presence and absence of glucose and substitution of 2-deoxyglucose for glucose with and without rotenone. Cellular energy levels ([ATP], [ADP], [phosphocreatine], [creatine]) were measured in suspensions of C6 cells incubated in parallel under identical conditions. [Na+]i and [Ca2+]i rose while [K+]i fell and plasma membrane depolarized when energy production was limited. Intracellular acidification was observed when glycolysis was the sole source for ATP synthesis. There was a positive correlation between the extent of energy depletion in glial cells and the magnitude and velocity of alterations in ion levels. Neither glycolysis alone nor oxidative phosphorylation alone were able to ensure unaltered ion gradients. Since oxidative phosphorylation is much more efficient in generating ATP than glycolysis, this finding suggests a specific requirement of the Na pump for ATP generated by glycolysis. Changes in [Na+]i and [K+]i observed during energy depletion were gradual and progressive whereas those in [Ca2+]i were initially slow and moderate with large elevations occurring only as a late event. Increases in [Na+]i were usually smaller than reductions in [K+]i, particularly in the glia, suggestive of cellular swelling. Glia were less sensitive to identical insults than were neurons under all conditions. Results presented in this study lead to the conclusion that the response to energy deprivation of the two main types of brain cells, neurons and astrocytes, is a complex function of their capacity to produce ATP and the activities of various pathways which are involved in ion homeostasis.
In the rat central nervous system, cyclic GMP can be produced by two isoforms of guanylyl cyclase: a cytosolic isoform, which is activated by nitric oxide, and a membrane-bound isoform, activated by atrial natriuretic factor. We studied the development of guanylyl cyclase activity upon maturation of the rat forebrain from postnatal days 4 to 24, using a combined immunocytochemical and biochemical approach. Atrial natriuretic factor-activated particulate guanylyl cyclase activity was found to decrease in the frontal cortex, in the lateral septum and in the piriform cortex upon maturation. A transient expression of atrial natriuretic factor-sensitive guanylyl cyclase activity was observed at postnatal day 8 in the caudate putamen complex, whereas an increase was observed in the lateral olfactory tract from postnatal days 8 to 24. Biochemical and immunocytochemical studies using the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, or the inhibitor of soluble guanylyl cyclase 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinaloxin-1-one, indicated high levels of endogenous nitric oxide release at postnatal days 4 and 8. This activity decreased strongly in all brain areas examined. From postnatal day 8 onwards, atrial natriuretic factor-responsive cyclic GMP-immunoreactive cells could be characterized as astrocytes, with the exception of those in the the lateral olfactory tract, where the myelinated fibers became cyclic GMP producing. Furthermore, our results on activation of both guanylyl cyclases at postnatal day 8 leads to the suggestion that both isoforms might be found in the same cells. This study shows that there are pronounced differences between various frontal brain areas in the development of the responsiveness of both the particulate and soluble isoforms of guanylyl cyclase, and lends further support to the hypothesis that natriuretic peptides have a role in neuronal growth and plasticity of the rat brain.
The recognition molecule myelin-associated glycoprotein is expressed by oligodendrocytes, the myelinating cells of the central nervous system. The myelin-associated glycoprotein gene gives rise to two alternatively spliced transcript variants (&quot;early&quot; and &quot;late&quot; message) which are developmentally regulated. In this study, using mice, we investigated whether both transcripts can be expressed in an individual oligodendrocyte or whether different oligodendrocyte populations exist expressing either one or the other myelin-associated glycoprotein messenger RNA. For this purpose the cytoplasmic RNA content of single oligodendrocytes derived either from cultures of embryonic mouse brain or from the corpus callosum murine slice preparation was harvested during patch-clamping in the whole-cell recording mode by applying negative pressure to the patch pipette. After reverse transcription, cDNA fragments were amplified by the polymerase chain reaction and analysed by agarose gel electrophoresis and restriction enzyme maps. Expression of myelin-associated glycoprotein transcripts could first be detected in those oligodendrocytes which already had acquired a more mature developmental stage. This stage could electrophysiologically be characterized by the dominance of passive K+ currents. In addition to oligodendrocytes expressing only the late or the early transcript, many cells were found expressing simultaneously both transcripts with varying levels. The myelin-associated glycoprotein transcript expression is therefore found to be developmentally regulated at a stage when oligodendrocytes have already acquired the channel properties of the adult.
We have shown previously that heat-killed bacillus Calmette-Guerin injected into the brain parenchyma becomes sequestered behind the blood brain barrier for months undetected by the immune system. However, independent peripheral sensitization of the immune system to bacillus Calmette-Gurin results in recognition of bacillus Calmette-Gurin in the brain and the induction of focal chronic lesions [Matyszak M. K. and Perry V. H. (1995) Neuroscience 64, 967 977]. We carried out ultrastructural studies of these lesions. Prior to subcutaneous challenge we used immunohistochemistry to detect bacillus Calmette-Gurin which was found in cells with the morphology of macrophages/microglia and in perivascular macrophages. Eight to 14 days after subcutaneous challenge there was a conspicuous leucocyte infiltration at the site of bacillus Calmette-Gurin deposits within the brain parenchyma. The majority of these cells were macrophages and lymphocytes, with some lymphocytes showing characteristic blast morphology. Dendritic cells in close contact with lymphocytes were prominent. Inflammatory cells were found in perivascular cuffs and within the brain parenchyma. The tissue was oedematous and some axons were undergoing Wallerian degeneration with associated myelin degeneration. Throughout the lesions, but more commonly at the edges, we detected macrophages containing myelin in their cytoplasm close to intact axons and axons with evidence of remyelinating sheaths, suggestive of primary demyelination. In older lesions, two to three months after the peripheral challenge, the oedema was less pronounced and there was little evidence of Wallerian degeneration. There were still many macrophages. lymphocytes and dendritic cells, although the number of these cells was lower than in earlier lesions. Late lesions also contained many plasma cells which were not present in early lesions. In these late lesions there were bundles of axons with no myelin or a few axons with thin myelin sheaths, suggestive of persistent or ongoing demyelination or remyelination. These observations show that, during a delayed-type hypersensitivity lesion in the CNS, the leucocyte populations change with time, and suggest that the mechanisms and type of tissue damage are different in the early and late stages of the lesion.
Gap junctions between astrocytes as well as between astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in rat brain were immunohistochemically labelled with a monoclonal and an affinity-purified polyclonal antibody generated against connexin-26. By light microscopy, the immunolabelling patterns obtained were, with a few exceptions, remarkably similar to previously described distribution patterns of the gap junctional protein connexin-43, which is expressed by astrocytes and is localized at astrocytic gap junctions. By electron microscopy, immunoreactivity with these two anti-connexin-26 antibodies was restricted to astrocytes; inter-astrocytic gap junctional membranes were symmetrically labelled, heterologous oligo-astrocytic junctional membranes were asymmetrically labelled only on the astrocyte side and oligo-oligodendrocyte junctions were unlabelled. Two additional anti-connexin-26 antibodies that were found to produce punctate labelling in leptomeninges and liver failed to do so in brain parenchyma, consistent with reports indicating the absence of authentic connexin-26 in this tissue. Antibodies that labelled astrocytic gap junctions exhibited no cross-reaction with connexin-43 or connexin-32, as demonstrated by western blotting, but recognized liver connexin-26 as well as several brain proteins, including an approximately 32000 mol. wt protein that did not correspond to connexin-32 and a 26000 mol. wt protein that co-migrated with liver connexin-26. These results suggest that connexin-26, or more likely a protein having sequence homology with connexin-26, is targeted to astrocytic gap junctions and raise the possibility of the existence of connexins that may be co-expressed with connexin-43 in most, but perhaps not all, astrocytes.
Modulation of voltage-activated Ca2+ channel activity by phosphorylation was studied in metabolically intact voltage-clamped rat lactotrophs. Experiments using Ba2+ as a charge carrier indicated that a phorbol ester protein kinase C activator stimulates high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channel currents, but has no effect on low-voltage-activated currents. Extracellular application of structurally and mechanistically distinct protein kinase C inhibitors (staurosporin, H7, calphostin C, chelerythrine and Ro 31-8220) preferentially inhibited the high-voltage-activated Ba2+ current. This suggests that protein kinase C is required for maintainance of Ca2+ channel activity even in the absence of modulators. Cyclosporin A, an inhibitor of the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase calcineurin, increased the high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channel current, and staurosporin reversed this effect. Thus, dephosphosphorylation by calcineurin may limit basal Ca2+ channel activity. Time-domain monitoring of cellular capacitance changes demonstrated that cyclosporin A and 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate do not affect exocytosis at a hyperpolarized potential, but each enhances depolarization-induced exocytosis. Facilitation of exocytosis by cyclosporin A differed from 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate in that it was biphasic. The delayed facilitation induced by cyclosporin A could be accounted for by stimulation of the voltage-gated Ca2+ current. These results suggest that the high-voltage activated Ca2+ channel current in rat lactotrophs is determined by the opposing basal activities of protein kinase C and calcineurin. Furthermore, it is concluded that the regulation of Ca2+ channels by protein kinase C and calcineurin affects depolarization-induced exocytosis.
We investigated the presence of voltage-gated calcium currents in vestibular neurons acutely isolated from postnatal mice vestibular ganglions using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. The neuronal origin of the recorded cells was confirmed by immunohistochemical detection of neurofilaments and calretinin. High and low voltage-activated calcium currents were recorded. High voltage-activated currents were present in all investigated neurons. Low voltage-activated currents were recorded in only a few large vestibular neurons. High and low voltage-activated currents were distinguished by their thresholds of activation and their ability to run-up during early recordings. Among high voltage-activated currents. L-, N- and P-type currents were identified by their sensitivity to, respectively, the dihydropyridines agonist Bay K 8644 (3 microM) and antagonist nitrendipine (3 microM), the co-conotoxin GVIA (3 microM) and the omega-agatoxin IVA at low concentration (50 nM). An inactivating current sensitive to 1 microM omega-agatoxin IVA with characteristics similar to those of the Q-type current was also recorded in vestibular neurons. When L-, N-, P-, Q-type barium currents were blocked, a residual high voltage-activated current defined by its resistance to saturating concentrations of all above blockers was detected. This residual current was completely blocked by 0.5 mM nickel and cadmium. Our results reveal that primary vestibular neurons express a variety of voltage-activated calcium currents with distinct physiological and pharmacological properties. This diversity could be related both with their functional synaptic characteristic, and with the intrinsic physiological properties of each class of vestibular afferents.
The distribution of vasopressin and oxytocin receptors was established by in vitro autoradiography in the spinal cord of adult rats of either sex, as well as in male castrates. In both males and females, high concentrations of vasopressin binding sites were found in a few groups of somatic motoneurons: the large lateral group at the cervicothoracic junction in segments C8 and Th1; the small medial group in segments L3-L5; and the pudendal and retrodorsolateral nuclei in segments L5-L6. The extension and intensity of labelling in pudendal nuclei were markedly lower in females than in males, in particular in the dorsomedial nucleus, where binding was either not or hardly detectable. Gonadectomy in males resulted in a significant reduction of binding in pudendal nuclei, but not in other labelled motor nuclei. Moderate amounts of vasopressin binding sites were also found evenly distributed throughout the central gray at all segmental levels. Oxytocin binding sites were detectable in all spinal segments, but in low amounts and restricted to the superficial layers of the dorsal horn. The abundance of vasopressin binding sites in the central gray suggests that vasopressin may be involved in most spinal functions. The permanent expression of vasopressin binding sites in pudendal motor nuclei of is particular interest with regard to the known plasticity of pudendal motoneurons.
A putative role for bradykinin has been proposed in the processing of sensory information at the level of the spinal cord. Autoradiographic studies have demonstrated the presence of B2 kinin receptor binding sites in superficial laminae of the dorsal horn and a down-regulation of those receptors in rat models of pain injury. In this study, classical immunocytochemistry and confocal microscopy immunofluorescence were used first to localize bradykinin-like immunoreactivity in all major spinal cord segments of naive rats; second, to assess bradykinin-like immunoreactivity changes that occur in animals subjected to various chemical treatments and surgical lesions. High densities of bradykinin-like immunoreactivity were observed in motoneuron of the ventral horn, deeper laminae and nucleus dorsalis of the dorsal horn. Higher magnification of ventral horn showed strong immunostaining of motoneuron perikaryas and their proximal processes. Two types of bradykinin-like immunoreactivity immunostained cellular bodies were observed in deeper laminae of the dorsal horn. These interneurons, morphologically corresponding to islets and antenna-type cells project dendrites to adjacent laminae. Furthermore, numerous strongly marked dendrites, transversally cut, suggest the presence of projection neurons to higher cervical centres. Following unilateral lumbar dorsal rhizotomy (L1-L6) or peripheral lesion of the sciatic nerve, important increases of bradykinin-like immunoreactivity were found in laminae III and IV of the ipsilateral dorsal horn. In contrast, significant decreases of immunodeposits were observed in both cell bodies and numerous dendrites of motoneuron surrounding neuropil. Specific destructions of sensory afferent fibres with capsaicin or selective activation of kallikreins with melittin caused increases of bradykinin-like immunoreactivity in both the dorsal and ventral horns of the spinal cord. These results which demonstrate the cellular localization of bradykinin-like immunoreactivity in both dorsal and ventral horns of the rat spinal cord, further reveal the plasticity of this non-sensory peptidergic system following various chemical and surgical treatments. Hence, these anatomical findings along with earlier functional and receptor autoradiographic studies reinforce the putative role of bradykinin in sensory function.
Botulinum toxin is widely used for the treatment of focal movement disorders, where chemodenervation is used to decrease hyperactivity in selected muscles. Beside a focal paresis, widespread effects on neuromuscular synaptic function have been demonstrated. However, reactions of motoneurons after neuromuscular chemodenervation without gross morphological lesions are largely unknown. Peripheral axotomy, in contrast, leads to profound changes in the expression of several genes, including those encoding neurotransmitters, in motoneurons. We therefore examined the expression of neurotransmitter genes in rat motoneurons six days after intramuscular botulinum toxin application in the right gastrocnemius muscle. Similar doses of botulinum toxin as used in human where injected. A focal bilateral increase in expression of the choline acetyltransferase gene and a widespread bilateral increase of the beta-calcitonin-gene-related peptide and the enkephalin genes was measured in motoneurons after botulinum toxin injection. Cholecystokinin had a lower expression after botulinum toxin injections. Growth-associated protein 43, nitric oxide synthase, somatostatin and proopiomelanocortin messenger RNA were not found in motoneurons of both groups. Our results demonstrate that changes in the expression of neurotransmitter genes in motoneurons also occur after chemodenervation but with different patterns to those found after mechanical nerve lesioning. These changes reflect focal and widespread modulative events. The knowledge of these events should lead to a better understanding of the focal paralysis and of the more widespread effects found in human after intramuscular injection of botulinum toxin.
The antinociception induced by beta-endorphin given supraspinally has been demonstrated previously to be mediated by the release of Met-enkephalin acting on delta2-opioid receptors in the spinal cord. The present study was designed to determine the role of nitric oxide in the spinal cord on beta-endorphin-induced release of Met-enkephalin and antinociception. The experiments were performed in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats. The release of Met-enkephalin was performed using a spinal cord perfusion technique and the Met-enkephalin released in the spinal perfusates was measured by radioimmunoassay. Antinociception was assessed by the tail-flick test. beta-Endorphin (2 microg) given intraventricularly induced the release of Met-enkephalin from the spinal cord. The release of Met-enkephalin was dose-dependently attenuated by N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (0.1 nM-1 microM) added into spinal perfusates and the attenuation was reversed by intrathecally applied L-arginine. The stereoisomer N(omega)-nitro-D-arginine given intrathecally, however, did not inhibit the release of Met-enkephalin induced by intraventricularly administered beta-endorphin. beta-Endorphin (4 microg) given intraventricularly produced antinociception in rats pretreated intrathecally with saline. The antinociception induced by beta-endorphin was blocked by intrathecally administered N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (5 microg) and the blockade of antinociception was reversed by intrathecal injection of L-arginine (50 microg). N(omega)-Nitro-D-arginine (5 microg) given intrathecally did not block the intraventricularly administered beta-endorphin-induced antinociception. N(omega)-Nitro-L-arginine (10 microg) given intraventricularly did not affect intraventricularly administered beta-endorphin-induced Met-enkephalin release nor did it affect intraventricular beta-endorphin-induced antinociception, indicating that the effect of N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine is not at supraspinal sites. Intrathecal pretreatment with N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine did not affect intrathecally administered [D-Ala2]deltorphin II-induced antinociception. Our results indicate that N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine given intrathecally attenuates intraventricular beta-endorphin-administered inhibition of the tail-flick response by presynaptically inhibiting the release of Met-enkephalin.
There is growing evidence that nerve growth factor may be an important mediator of the sensory disorders associated with inflammation. This hypothesis was tested in a rat model of cystitis. In this model, an experimental inflammation is created in anaesthetized rats with an irritant chemical. Within 1 h, bladder reflexes, activated by the sensory innervation of this viscus, become exaggerated, mimicking the disorders seen in humans with chronic cystitis. The development of this hyper-reflexia following experimental inflammation was quantified using the technique of repeated cystometrograms. By several measures, bladder reflex excitability increased about three-fold after 5 h. Firstly, the study investigated whether inflammatory changes can be prevented by pharmacological antagonism of nerve growth factor. A synthetic fusion protein was used, consisting of the extracelluar domain of the high-affinity nerve growth factor receptor, trkA, coupled to the Fc portion of an immunoglobulin. Previous work has shown that this molecule can sequester nerve growth factor and reduce its bioavailability both in vitro and in vivo. Treatment of animals with the fusion molecule at 1 mg/kg, immediately before inflammation of the bladder, largely, and very significantly, prevented the expected increases in reflex excitability of this organ. Pretreatment with a related fusion protein, capable of sequestering the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-4/5, but not nerve growth factor, was without effect. Similarly, a control fusion molecule, without neurotrophin-sequestering capacity, did not reduce the inflammation-induced hyper-reflexia. Systemic treatment with the nerve growth factor-sequestering molecule, but not control molecules, partially and significantly reversed established inflammatory changes, by about 30-60%, depending on outcome measure. The nerve growth factor-sequestering protein had no significant effects on bladder reflex excitability in the uninflamed state. It was also without significant effect on capsaicin-induced contractions of the urinary bladder. Administration of exogenous nerve growth factor into the lumen of the urinary bladders of normal anaesthetized rats produced a rapid and marked bladder hyper-reflexia similar to that seen with experimental inflammation. These findings are consistent with other circumstantial evidence that nerve growth factor may interact with visceral sensory systems. Together, the data strongly suggest that nerve growth factor produced in inflamed tissues is a critical mediator of the sensory disorders associated with inflammation.
We have generated and characterized a multi-functional polyclonal anti-brain-derived neurotrophic factor antibody. Western blot analysis, dorsal root ganglion neurite outgrowth and dorsal root ganglion neuron survival assays showed that this antibody specifically recognized brain-derived neurotrophic factor and not the other neurotrophins. Furthermore, it was capable of blocking the functional effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Using this antibody, we examined the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in adult rat brains by immunohistochemistry. We found distinct brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity in several structures of the brain. These included the neocortex, piriform cortex, amygdaloid complex, hippocampal formation, claustrum, some thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei, the substantia nigra and some brainstem structures. In contrast to brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA expression, brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity was also found in the lateral septum, bed nucleus of the stria teminalis, medial preoptic nucleus, olivery pretectal nucleus, lateral paragigantocellular nucleus and the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. In normal adult rat brains, there was little or no staining in the CA1 region or the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. However, kainate treatments greatly increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity in the pyramidal cells of the CA1 region, as well as in the dentate gyrus, CA2 and CA3 hippocampal regions. We present evidence for both the subcellular localization and anterograde transport of endogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the central nervous system. The detection of brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein in several discrete regions of the adult brain, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor's dramatic up-regulation following kainate treatment, strongly supports a role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the maintenance of adult neurons and synapses. Since several populations of neurons lost during neurodegenerative diseases synthesize brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein, modulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels may be clinically beneficial. The antibody described in this paper will be helpful in determining more precisely the functional activities of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the adult.
High concentrations of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) and its receptors have been detected in the rat cerebellum during ontogenesis. In particular, PACAP receptors are actively expressed in immature granule cells, suggesting that PACAP may act as a neurotrophic factor in the developing rat cerebellum. In the present study, we have investigated the effect of PACAP on cell survival and neurite outgrowth in cultured immature cerebellar granule cells. In control conditions, cultured granule cells undergo programmed cell death. Exposure of cultured cells to PACAP for 24 and 48 h provoked a significant increase in the number of living cells. The effect of PACAP on cell survival was inhibited by the PACAP antagonist PACAP(6-38). Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide was approximately 1000 times less potent than PACAP in promoting cell survival. PACAP also induced a significant increase in the number of processes and in the cumulated length of neurites borne by cultured neuroblasts. The present results demonstrate that PACAP promotes cell survival and neurite outgrowth in cultured immature granule cells. Since PACAP and its receptors are expressed in situ in the rat cerebellar cortex, these data strongly suggest that PACAP plays a physiological role in the survival and differentiation of cerebellar granule cells.
Mice homozygous for the recessive mutation oscillator (Glra1(spd-ot)) suffer from a complex motor disorder leading to death within three weeks after birth. Symptoms of this disorder mimic poisoning by strychnine, the antagonist of the inhibitory glycine receptor. The syndrome has previously been correlated to a 7 base pair microdeletion within the Glra1 gene (chromosome 11) encoding the alpha1-subunit of the adult glycine receptor isoform. As shown by [3H]strychnine binding and western blot analysis employing subunit-specific antibodies, spinal cord of homozygous oscillator mice was totally devoid of alpha1-polypeptide, characterizing the Glra1(spd-ot) gene as a functional null allele of Glra1. Moreover, tissue levels of the postsynaptic anchoring protein gephyrin were drastically reduced in the Glra1(spd-ot)/Glra1(spd-ot) genotype. In contrast, immunoanalysis revealed a persisting low-level expression of non-alpha1 glycine receptor polypeptides. Spinal glycine receptor content was also significantly reduced in the +/Glra1(spd-ot) genotype. This reduction coincided with increased acoustic startle responses in heterozygous animals consistent with haplotype insufficiency of glycine receptor function. Lethality of the murine null allele Glra1(spd-ot) contrasts with the situation in the human, where homozygosity for a GLRA1 null allele produces the phenotype of the non-lethal disorder hyperekplexia (startle disease; stiff baby syndrome). This suggests a disparate regulation of glycine receptor subunit genes and/or diverse compensatory pathways in mice and humans.
The topographic distribution of calretinin-immunoreactive neurons was studied in the medial septum diagonal band of Broca complex of the rat, in relation to the localization of other neurochemically identified cell groups containing choline acetyltransferase, parvalbumin or calbindin D28k. Double-labelling experiments revealed that these four antigen-containing cells formed distinct dorsoventrally running lamellae overlayed on top of each other similar to onion leaves. There was only a slight overlapping of the various cell groups. None of the four antigens were co-localized in the same cells. The lamella occupied by calretinin-positive neurons is situated at the border of the medial septum and the intermediolateral septal nucleus, and shows some overlap with the area occupied by cholinergic neurons. Retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase from the hippocampus combined with immunostaining for calretinin revealed that calretinin-containing neurons do not participate in the septohippocampal projection. The lack of projection to the amygdala was also confirmed. Thus, calretinin-containing neurons represent a distinct cell group in the medial septal region, which either projects to subcortical areas, or may function as interneurons relaying hippocampal feedback to the medial septal projection neurons.
The possible role of nitric oxide in the induction of long-term potentiation and long-term depression of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal slice has been investigated, in the rat, using two novel nitric oxide synthase inhibitors, 1-(2-trifluoromethylphenyl)imidazole, which is selective for the neuronal isoform in vitro, and 3-bromo-7-nitro-indazole. Long-term potentiation was induced by a series of high-frequency trains, and long-term depression was induced by prolonged low-frequency stimulation at 1 Hz. The induction of long-term potentiation was inhibited by both 1-(2-trifluoromethylphenyl)imidazole and 3-bromo-7-nitro-indazole at concentrations which did not alter the amplitude of the test excitatory postsynaptic potential. The inhibitory effect of 1-(2-trifluoromethylphenyl)imidazole on the induction of long-term potentiation was prevented by pretreatment with L-arginine, the substrate amino acid used by nitric oxide synthase for nitric oxide production. The induction of long-term depression was inhibited by both 3-bromo-7-nitro-indazole and 1-(2-trifluoromethylphenyl)imidazole at concentrations which did not affect the test excitatory postsynaptic potential. The inhibitory effect of 1-(2-trifluoromethylphenyl)imidazole was prevented by pretreatment with L-arginine. The present experiments provide strong support for the involvement of the neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase in the induction of long-term potentation and long-term depression.
The effects of lithium on excitatory synaptic transmission were studied in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices taken from 14- to 30-day-old rats using extracellular recording techniques. Lithium (2-18 mM) reversibly increased the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials in a concentration-dependent manner. Application of lithium for 6-15 min had no effect on the synaptic input-output function, while application of lithium for 20-35 min shifted this curve to the left. Lithium reversibly increased the amplitude of the presynaptic fibre volley in a concentration- and calcium-dependent manner. Lithium decreased paired-pulse facilitation measured at 50-ms interstimulus intervals. The results indicate that lithium enhances excitatory synaptic transmission in CA1 pyramidal cells by at least two different actions.
The pharmacological characteristics, localization and process of internalization of the insulin-like growth factor I and II receptors were studied in rat primary hippocampal cultured neurons grown under serum-free conditions. [125I]insulin-like growth factor-I binding was specific with an apparent affinity (Kd) of 0.1 nM and IC50 values of 0.1, 2.9 and 99.7 nM for insulin-like growth factor-I, insulin-like growth factor-II and insulin, respectively. The competition by insulin suggests the presence of genuine insulin-like growth factor-I receptors and not insulin-like growth factor binding proteins. In contrast, [125I]insulin-like growth factor-II binding showed a Kd of 0.1 nM and IC50 values of 0.2 and 20.5 nM for insulin-like growth factor-II and insulin-like growth factor-I while insulin was inactive, a well established characteristic of the insulin-like growth factor-II receptor. Using emulsion autoradiography, specific binding sites for [125I]insulin-like growth factor-I and -II were over the whole cultured neurons. The use of selective insulin-like growth factor-I and -II receptor antibodies further confirmed the existence of these receptors in rat hippocampal cultured neurons. To investigate the respective internalization profile of [125I]insulin-like growth factor-I and [125I]insulin-like growth factor-II receptor-ligand complexes in neurons, a technique of acid stripping was used. The apparent rate of endocytosis was found to be greater for the insulin-like growth factor-II than for the insulin-like growth factor-I receptor complexes. The internalization of [125I]insulin-like growth factor-I and [125I]insulin-like growth factor-II ligand-receptor complexes was confirmed using phenylarsine oxide which significantly blocked both internalization processes. In order to eliminate possible receptor recycling, monensin was used and shown to have no effect on the internalization of either ligand. Since the insulin-like growth factor-I receptor is coupled to tyrosine kinase activity, tyrphostin 47, a specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor. was used and shown to decrease [125I]insulin-like growth factor-I but not the [125I]insulin-like growth factor-II receptor internalization profile. Accordingly, insulin-like growth factor-I is apparently internalized mostly via the insulin-like growth factor-I tyrosine kinase type receptor, while insulin-like growth factor-II is not. The insulin-like growth factor-II receptor ligand complex is likely internalized via a pathway possibly related to mannose-phosphorylated residues as the insulin-like growth factor-II/mannose-6-phosphate receptor has been implicated in the intracellular targeting of lysosomal proteins containing glycosylated residues. Taken together, our results indicate that primary hippocampal cultured neurons represent a unique model for investigating the differential role and intracellular trafficking of both insulin-like growth factor-I and insulin-like growth factor-II receptor ligand complexes and their relevance to the respective functional role of these two-related trophic factors in the central nervous system.
Protein and messenger RNA levels of the AMPA-type glutamate receptor subunits 1-3 are high in many brain regions, but it is not known how much of the glutamate receptor protein is expressed on the surface of neurons in the form of functional receptors. To provide insight into this matter, western blot immunoreactivities for glutamate receptors 1 and 2/3, as well as binding of the specific ligand [3H]AMPA, were quantified following three independent treatments modifying surface receptors in intact primary hippocampal cultures: (i) proteolysis of surface receptors by chymotrypsin, (ii) cross-linking of surface receptors with the membrane-impermeant reagent bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate, and (iii) biotinylation of surface receptors with the membrane-impermeant reagent sulfosuccinimidyl-2(biotinamido)ethyl-1,3-dithiopropionate. All three of these methods demonstrated that 60-70% of total glutamate receptor subunit 1 protein and 40-50% of total glutamate receptor 2/3 protein are expressed on the surface of hippocampal neurons. Parallel studies revealed that 52% of total [3H]AMPA binding sites could be precipitated with avidin beads following biotinylation of intact cultures, providing an estimate of [3H]AMPA binding site surface expression in accord with the estimates of the surface expression of glutamate receptor subunits 1-3. Experiments examining the surface expression of 32P-labeled glutamate receptor subunit 1 demonstrated that approximately 65% of the phosphorylated form of the subunit is located in the plasma membrane, an estimate similar to the that derived via western blot for the entire glutamate receptor subunit 1 population in the same samples. Moreover, no significant change in the surface expression profile of the glutamate receptor subunits 1-3 was observed following stimulatory treatments known to increase glutamate receptor phosphorylation. These data indicate that slightly more than half of the AMPA receptors in cultured hippocampal neurons are located in the plasma membrane, and that AMPA receptor surface expression is not rapidly altered by glutamate receptor phosphorylation.
In situ hybridization techniques and quantitative western blotting were used to study the expression of the glial glutamate transporter GLT-1 and GLAST in the brains of normal (implanted, non-kindled) and fully kindled rats. Wistar rats were implanted with stimulating electrodes in the basolateral amygdala, and killed 28 days after the stimulated group had shown stage 5 seizures on five occasions. The brains were processed for in situ hybridization of messenger RNA for GLT-1 using 35S-labelled oligonucleotide probes or digoxigenin-labelled riboprobes. Paired (kindled and non-kindled) sections were used for qualitative and quantitative analyses. Image analysis of autoradiograms showed no change in expression of GLT-1 messenger RNA in any region of the hippocampus or in the cortex. An increase in expression of GLT-1 messenger RNA (expressed as percentage difference of control) was observed bilaterally in the striatum in kindled animals (16-21%, P&lt;0.05). Nuclear emulsion-dipped sections showed predominant glial cell labelling in the hippocampus. Particle density analysis revealed reduced cell labelling in some kindled vs control pairs but overall there was no significant reduction in labelling in CA1. Equivalent results were found in CA1 using digoxigenin-labelled riboprobes. Quantitative immunoblotting also revealed no change in GLT-1 or GLAST transporter protein in the hippocampus of kindled animals. From these data we conclude that the enduring seizure susceptibility associated with the fully kindled state is unlikely to involve alterations in hippocampal GLT-1 messenger RNA or GLT-1 and GLAST transporter protein expression.
The effect of acute and chronic electroconvulsive shock on the abundance of messenger RNAs encoding voltage-dependent potassium channel subunits in the rat brain was determined by in situ hybridization histochemistry with [35S]dATP-labelled oligonucleotides at 6 h, 24 h and three weeks following the last shock. The messenger RNA abundance of two voltage-dependent potassium channel subunits, Kv1.2 and Kv4.2, was altered by electroconvulsive shock but in different ways. In acute electroconvulsive shock experiments, Kv1.2 and Kv4.2 messenger RNA abundance in the dentate gyrus were reduced 6 h following the shock and returned to control levels after 24 h. In chronic electroconvulsive shock-treated rats, Kv1.2 messenger RNA abundance showed similar changes to those in acute electroconvulsive shock: it was reduced 6 h after the last shock and had recovered after 24 h. Kv4.2 messenger RNA abundance in chronic electroconvulsive shock-treated rats, however, showed adaptive changes: 6 h after the last shock there were no changes in its abundance while 24 h after the last shock there was a significant increase in the dentate gyrus. The changes in Kv1.2 and Kv4.2 messenger RNA abundance following electroconvulsive shock were only observed in the dentate gyrus and not in cornu ammonis 1 and cornu ammonis 3 of hippocampus or frontal-parietal cortex. Two other potassium channel subunits, Kv1.1 and Kv1.4, were not affected by either acute or chronic electroconvulsive shock. These findings indicate that acute and chronic electroconvulsive shock affect the gene expression of voltage-dependent potassium channel subunits with specificities for channel type, anatomical region and timing.
The ability to generate subthreshold membrane potential oscillations in neurons from the inferior olive nucleus has been attributed to the electrical properties of these neurons, as well as to the properties of the network. In the present in vitro study we quantitatively characterized both intrinsic membrane and network properties that are directly involved in the oscillatory activity of olivary neurons in the guinea-pig. We also implemented an alternating current analysis to explore the resonance behavior of these neurons and to compare the resonant properties with the properties of the oscillatory activity. Spectral analysis, used for the quantitative characterization of the oscillatory activity under various experimental conditions, revealed that the pattern of the oscillatory activity is network specific rather than cell specific. These results are in agreement with the hypothesis that the oscillatory activity of olivary neurons is generated by a network of electrically coupled neurons. Using alternating current analysis, we found that impedance-frequency curves of olivary neurons demonstrate a peak impedance (resonance) at a frequency between 3 and 10 Hz, which corresponds to the frequency of the spontaneous oscillations. Like the spontaneous oscillations, this peak is tetrodotoxin insensitive, unaffected by K+ channel blockers and almost completely blocked in the presence of Ni2+ in the physiological solution. Increasing the temperature increases the resonance frequency, as well as the frequency of the spontaneous oscillations. These results show that the resonant behavior of individual neurons is the basis of the oscillatory behavior of the network and that resonance can serve as a lumped parameter which encodes the oscillatory tendency of a neuron.

The thalamic reticular nucleus receives afferents from the dorsal thalamus, cortex and brainstem, and projects back onto most cortically projecting thalamic nuclei thus playing a key role in the synchronization of the thalamocortical network. Although this nucleus was initially thought to consist of a homogeneous population of cells using GABA as a transmitter, and sharing identical intrinsic membrane properties, some heterogeneity was subsequently reported. The morphological diversity is generally acknowledged, but only two studies have shown functional differences between two classes of cells which vary in their ability to discharge in bursts. However, the location of the non-bursting cells was not characterized with anatomical techniques. Our recent work on the action of mu-opioid agonists in the thalamus revealed a widespread K+-mediated inhibition of most, if not all, thalamic relay and diffuse projection neurons. However, in the reticular nucleus, preliminary experiments suggested that the opioid sensitivity was variable. Based on these results and on observations of a discrete localization of mu-opioid receptors in the reticular nucleus, we investigated cellular heterogeneity within the nucleus using opioid agonists as markers. Using the whole cell patch clamp technique in young rat thalamic slices, we tested the responses of 28 neurons to opioids, the intrinsic membrane properties of each cell, and their relative location within the nucleus. Two types of intrinsic membrane properties underlying distinct discharge behaviours were seen in neurobiotin-labelled cells clearly located in the reticular nucleus: type I with the typical bursting behaviour previously reported in reticularis neurons, and type II in which bursting was greatly reduced or absent. Each class of cell could be further divided into subpopulations based on their opioid sensitivity. About half of both bursting (20) and non-bursting or tonic (8) cells were strongly inhibited by the mu-opioid receptor agonist D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,glycinol5-enkephalin, an effect mediated by an increase in K+ conductance. At no time was inhibition by delta- or kappa-receptor agonists seen. Our work therefore further demonstrates that the reticular nucleus is functionally heterogeneous, although the role of such cell diversity has still to be determined.
We report here the neuron-specific co-expression of four genes coding for neuropeptides involved in the control of male behaviour. These neurons are located in the anterior lobe of the right cerebral ganglion in the central nervous system of Lymnaea stagnalis and project via the penis nerve to the penial complex. In order to accomplish optimal assurance we applied in situ hybridization, immunocytochemistry and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry. The anterior lobe neurons express the gene encoding the amidated tetrapeptide APGWamide. Subsets of these cells are now shown to co-express the APGWamide gene exclusively with one of three other neuropeptide genes, encoding Lymnaea neuropeptide Y, conopressin or pedal peptide, respectively. All four genes are also expressed in other neurons in other centres projecting to the penial complex, but in these cells co-expression was not observed. The neuropeptides encoded by the genes could be identified in the anterior lobe cell bodies on the basis of immunocytochemistry and mass spectrometrical analysis. The neuropeptides APGWamide and Lymnaea neuropeptide Y, which are co-localized in the anterior lobe cells as well as in axons innervating the penis retractor muscle, do not induce muscle contraction but have a modulatory action by affecting the relaxation rate and amplitude of the contraction. APGWamide and conopressin had earlier been suggested to modulate peristalsis of the vas deferens. Thus, it seems that the neurons co-expressing the various combinations of neuropeptide genes in the anterior lobe represent functional units, each acting in the fine tuning of different muscles involved in specific aspects of male copulation behaviour.
This work compares the tectal codification of eye movements in goldfish with those reported for other vertebrate groups. Focal electrical stimulation was applied in various tectal zones and the characteristics of evoked eye movements were examined as a function of (i) the position of the stimulation over the tectal surface, (ii) the initial position of the eyes and (iii) the parameters (pulse rate, current strength, duration) of the stimulus. In a large medial zone, stimulation within the intermediate and deep layers of the tectum evoked contraversive saccades of both eyes, whose direction and amplitude were roughly congruent with the retinotopic representation of the visual world within overlying layers. These saccades were minimally influenced by the initial position of the eye in the orbit. The topographical arrangement of evoked saccades and body movements suggests that this tectal zone triggers orienting responses in a similar way to those described in other vertebrates. Stimulations applied within the caudal tectum also evoked contraversive saccades, but in disagreement with the overlying retinotopic map--the vertical component was absent. Taken together with electrically evoked body movements reported in free-swimming fish, these saccades could reveal that this zone is involved in escape responses. When stimulations were applied within the anteromedial zone of the tectum, contraversive movements of both eyes appeared much more dependent on initial eye position. Saccades elicited from this area displayed characteristics of &quot;goal-directed saccades&quot; which were similar to those described in the cat. The generation of goal-directed movements from the anteromedial zone suggests that this portion of the goldfish optic tectum has a different intrinsic organization or is connected with the brainstem saccade generator in a different fashion than the medial zone. Finally, stimulation of the extreme anteromedial zone evoked convergent eye movements. These movements and those reported in free-swimming fish following electrical stimulation of this tectal area suggest that this zone could be involved in feeding responses. The relationships between the parameters of electrical stimulation and the characteristics of elicited saccades suggest that the stimulated location within the tectum determines a constant direction in the evoked saccade, whereas the amount and duration of tectal activity, as mimicked by changes in stimulus parameters, together with the tectal locus, determine the velocity and amplitude of the evoked saccade.
In the embryonic CNS, preformed pathways precede the growth of axonal fasciculi [Katz M. J. and Lasek R. J. (1980) Cell Motil. 1, 141-157; Katz M. J. et al. (1980) Neuroscience 5, 821-833]. What are the developmental events that lead to the elaboration of these preformed pathways? To answer this question, we investigated the organization of the primitive neural tube and more particularly the arrangement of the early-generated cells using [3H]thymidine autoradiography or bromodeoxyuridine. Our data suggest that the position of early-generated cells might be involved in the setting of such pathways. In the brain stem of E12(0) (12 days and 0 h) and E12(15) rat embryos, the first-generated cells were organized into three longitudinal columns associated with glycoconjugate-rich extracellular spaces in the adjacent primitive marginal layer. Also, axons traced with 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI) were contiguous to the early-generated cellular columns and represented the primordium of the medial longitudinal fasciculus, the lateral longitudinal tract and the mesencephalic trigeminal tract. Our results show a correlation between the organization of early-generated cells, likely neurons, and the pattern of extracellular spaces in the marginal layer where axons grow. It has been reported in the literature that neurons produce elements of the extracellular matrix such as growth-modulating molecules or space-creating molecules. We therefore suggest that the position of early-generated neurons could be involved in the elaboration of a template for the setting of some major longitudinal tracts during embryonic development of the brainstem.
Axotomy of the rat superior cervical ganglion results in a two-fold increase of neuropeptide tyrosine as determined by radioimmunoassay. On the other hand, treatment of sympathetic neuron cultures with leukemia inhibitory factor, a cytokine that is known to be involved in the up-regulation of galanin after axotomy in vivo, decreases neuropeptide tyrosine messenger RNA. These, apparently contradictory findings, prompted us to investigate the regulation of neuropeptide tyrosine in the axotomized superior cervical ganglion in vivo. For comparison, the regulation of galanin was examined under the same conditions. Compared to control ganglia, the number of neuropeptide tyrosine-positive cell bodies decreased while the density of immunoreactive neuronal processes increased one week after transection of the major postganglionic nerves. The nerve fibres were identified as axons by the absence of MAP2, a somatodendritic marker protein. They extended into both carotid nerves and ramified at the lesion site. In situ hybridization revealed that, although the number of neuropeptide tyrosine messenger RNA-positive neurons was not different from controls, the average grain density/neuron decreased by 40%. When axotomized ganglia were decentralized simultaneously, a three-fold elevation of neuropeptide tyrosine immunoreactivity was detectable by radioimmunoassay and an additional increase in numerical density of neuropeptide tyrosine-immunoreactive nerve fibres was observed. Levels of neuropeptide tyrosine messenger RNA were significantly reduced within postganglionic neurons. This synergistic effect of combined axotomy and decentralization on peptide content was also detected for the neuropeptide galanin that, in contrast to neuropeptide tyrosine, is induced by axotomy or decentralization on protein and messenger RNA level. Therefore, while neuropeptide tyrosine messenger RNA is reduced in axotomized ganglia (most likely in response to leukemia inhibitory factor), the peptide accumulates in axonal processes resulting in increased peptide levels as determined by radioimmunoassay.
Recordings of whole-cell synaptic current responses elicited by electrical stimulation of dorsal roots were made from motoneurons, identified by antidromic invasion, in isolated spinal cord preparations from five- to eight-day-old Wistar rats. Supramaximal electrical stimulation of the dorsal root evoked complex excitatory postsynaptic currents with mean latencies (+/- S.E.M.) of 6.1 +/- 0.26 ms, peak amplitude of -650 +/- 47 pA and duration of 4.30 +/- 0.46 s (n=34). All phases of excitatory postsynaptic currents were potentiated to approximately 20% above control levels in the presence of the metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists S-2-amino-2-methyl-4-phosphonobutanoate (MAP4; 200 microM; n=15) and 2S, 1'S,2'S-2-methyl-2-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine (MCCG; 200 microM; n=9). A similar level of potentiation was produced by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist 3-N[1-(S)-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]amino-2-(S)-hydroxypropyl-P-benzyl-p hosphinic acid (CGP55845; 200 nM; n=5). MAP4 (200 microM) produced a six-fold rightward shift in the concentration-effect plot for the depressant action of the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist S-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoate (L-AP4), whereas CGP55845 produced no significant change in the potency of L-AP4. MAP4 did not antagonize the depressant actions of baclofen (n=8), 1S,3S-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate (n=4) or 2-S,1'S,2'S-2-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine (n=4). The metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists produced no change in the holding current of any of the neurons, indicating that they had no significant postsynaptic excitatory actions. These results are the first to indicate a possible physiological role for metabotropic glutamate receptors in the spinal cord. Like GABA(B) receptors, they control glutamatergic synaptic transmission in the segmental spinal pathway to motoneurons. This is likely to be a presynaptic control mechanism.
The magnocellular preoptic nucleus of the rat supplies centrifugal input to the olfactory bulb as well as projecting to other olfactory-related areas. The extent to which the piriform and entorhinal cortices can influence the activity of magnocellular preoptic neurons and hence that of the olfactory bulb were examined using intracellular in vivo recording. Stable recordings were obtained in 58 neurons impaled in the magnocellular preoptic nucleus. Antidromic responses occurred on stimulating olfactory bulb (15), piriform cortex (14), or entorhinal area (eight). Monosynaptic excitation was evoked by piriform (27 of 37 tested) and entorhinal cortex (15 of 32 tested) stimulation with polysynaptic inhibition occurring in seven and five neurons, respectively. Polysynaptic as well as antidromic excitation by olfactory bulb stimulation occurred in four; a further 28 tested responded polysynaptically. No response to olfactory bulb stimulation was monosynaptic. In stable impalements, 29 neurons discharged spontaneously in the absence of applied current. Lucifer Yellow and Neurobiotin were used to label 16 cells. All but one had smooth dendrites with soma diameters ranging from 8 to 24 microm. These results provide a framework in which magnocellular preoptic neurons can influence olfactory processing by direct action on the olfactory bulb, which action can be boosted by positive feedback from the bulb through the olfactory piriform and entorhinal cortices.
Circulating estrogens influence the electrical and biosynthetic activity of the hypothalamic magnocellular neurons which synthesize vasopressin or oxytocin and regulate body fluid homeostasis and reproduction. As none of these magnocellular neurons express nuclear estrogen receptor in the rat, the present study has combined estrogen receptor immunocytochemistry with retrograde tracing techniques to examine whether the first-order neurons projecting to magnocellular neurons in the supraoptic nucleus may be receptive to estrogen. Green fluorescent latex microspheres (50 nl) were injected into the supraoptic nucleus of five ovariectomized rats. The largest numbers of retrogradely-labelled cells expressing estrogen receptor immunoreactivity were detected in the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, anteroventral periventricular nucleus and medial preoptic nucleus where approximately 15% of all retrogradely-labelled cells were estrogen receptor-immunoreactive. Other prominent sites where double-labelled cells were detected were the median preoptic nucleus, subfornical organ, ventrolateral division of the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus and the brainstem nucleus tractus solitarii. Triple labelling experiments in the caudal medulla revealed that the estrogen-receptive neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarii and ventrolateral medulla projecting to the supraoptic nucleus were not noradrenergic. These findings show that sub-populations of neurons projecting to the supraoptic nucleus express estrogen receptors. This provides immunocytochemical evidence that estrogen may regulate the activity of magnocellular oxytocin and vasopressin neurons in an indirect, trans-synaptic manner by influencing the activity of first-order neurons projecting to the supraoptic nucleus. The predominance of estrogen-receptive lamina terminalis and preoptic area inputs to the supraoptic nucleus suggests respective sites of estrogen action on magnocellular neurons in modulating fluid balance and reproductive function.
The interactions between dizocipline, an N-methyl-D-aspartate open channel antagonist, and the induction of water drinking and c-fos expression by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion of angiotensin II have been studied. Pretreating male rats with i.c.v. dizocilpine maleate (100 or 300 nmol) or tenocyclidine (150 nmol), both non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists, inhibited the subsequent dipsogenic response to i.c.v. angiotensin II (125 or 50 pmol, 5-10 min later). Dizocilpine also decreased the angiotensin II-evoked expression of c-fos in the median preoptic nucleus, supraoptic nucleus and the medial (parvicellular) and lateral (magnocellular) parts of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, as well as in the nucleus of the solitary tract and the lateral parabrachial nucleus. Double staining showed that suppression of c-fos expression occurred in N-methyl-D-aspartate R1 receptor containing neurons in the hypothalamus. Pretreating rats with any of three competitive glutamate antagonists (2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, 60 or 160 nmol; gamma-D-glutamylglyine, 400 nmol; (DL-3/(R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid, 0.1 nmol) or the glycine site antagonist 7-chlorokynurenic acid had no effects on angiotensin II-induced drinking. Neither did pretreating rats with the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione [two infusions, 30 min (240 nmol) and 5 min (160 nmol) before angiotensin II]. To eliminate cross-reactivity of dizocilpine with nicotinic receptors, animals were pretreated with nicotinic acetylcholine blocker mecamylamine (250 nmol, i.c.v.), but this had no effect on angiotensin II-dependent drinking or c-fos expression. These results suggest that an N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptor is implicated in the dipsogenic and cellular responses to i.c.v. angiotensin II, and point to the existence of a novel set of interactions between excitatory amino acids and this neuropeptide.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptors are thought to be involved in synaptic signaling within the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system, but the extent and nature of their involvement has not been determined. In this study, in the rat, we evaluated the effect of hyperosmotic stimulation on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit, NR1, which confers function to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor heteromers. Co-localization of immunoreactivity for NR1 and vasopressin- or oxytocin-associated neurophysin in magnocellular neurons of the supraoptic and paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei was accomplished using double-label immunohistochemistry. Our results show that vasopressin- and oxytocin-neurophysin-positive populations contained detectable levels of NR1 labeling. Using NR1 labeling as a measure of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor density, we examined the effect of dehydration in these nuclei. Using computer-assisted densitometry, we found significantly greater NR1 labeling densities in the magnocellular regions of both the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of saline-treated rats than of control rats. This increase was not due to methodological factors, since no changes in NR1 labeling density were found in a nearby nucleus, the nucleus reuniens. Western blot analysis showed similar selective increases in NR1 labeling in homogenates from the supraoptic nucleus, paraventricular nucleus and in some cases from the anterior hypothalamic area. In both immunohistochemical and western blotting experiments we did not observe a dehydration-induced increase in NR1 in other brain areas examined. Our results showing an up-regulation of NR1-containing N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors during dehydration suggest that these receptors are involved in the regulation of body water and may represent an adaptive physiological response following activation of the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial axis. In addition, these results suggest that the functional expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors is dynamic and may be modified according to the physiological state of the animal.
Response properties of 252 single-units to visual, auditory, somatosensory and noxious stimulation were recorded by means of extracellular microelectrodes in the suprageniculate nucleus of anaesthetized, immobilized cats. Of the 141 units tested for modality properties the majority (n=113, 80.1%) was found unimodal in the sense that stimuli of exclusively one sensory modality were able to elicit an activation of the unit. Twenty-four (17.0%) cells were bimodal and four (2.8%) were trimodal (visual, somatosensory and auditory). The visual modality dominated the unimodal cells (n=74, 65.5%), while cells responsive to somatic stimulation (n=20, 17.6%), auditory stimulation (n=16, 14.1%) or noxious stimulation of the tooth pulp (n=3, 2.6%) were less frequently encountered. Visual sensitivity dominated the multisensory cells, too. The visually responsive units were characterized by having a sensitivity to stimuli moving in a rather large, uniform receptive field that covered the contralateral lower quadrant, and encompassed a flanking area of about 20 degree width in both the upper contralateral and lower ipsilateral visual fields. Many cells (n=52, 47%) were sensitive to the direction of the stimulation and reacted to stimuli moving at a high velocity (20-200 deg/s). Most cells responded differently to stimuli of a variety of sizes. Somatosensory units reacted to stimuli presented over a wide area on the contralateral side of the body, thus showing no sign of somatotopic organization. The auditory sensitivity fell within a wide range of acoustic stimuli in extremely large auditory receptive fields. The physiological properties of suprageniculate nucleus cells strongly resemble the sensory properties of cells found along the ventral bank of the anterior ectosylvian sulcus and the deeper layers of the superior colliculus. Our results provide further support for the notion of a separate tecto-suprageniculate-anterior ectosylvian sulcus/insular pathway that takes part in the processing of multimodal signals important for various types of sensory related behaviours.
Immunohistochemical detection of Fos was used to determine which regions of the periaqueductal gray are activated during conditioned fear to a context in the rat. More specifically, the aim of the study was to test the role of its lateral and ventrolateral columns in freezing behaviour during fear. Conditioned fear was evoked by re-exposing rats to the same footshock chamber in which they had received footshocks 4 h earlier. Conditioned Re-exposed rats were compared to Not Conditioned Re-exposed and Conditioned Not Re-exposed rats. Freezing was observed in the Conditioned-Re-exposed group only. It was associated with an overall increase in Fos expression in the entire periaqueductal gray that was significantly greater than in the two other groups. The largest and most significant increase in Fos immunoreactivity was found in the ventrolateral column (especially in its caudal part), whereas only a moderate increase was found in the lateral column. The present results argue in favour of the ventrolateral column as the region of the periaqueductal gray that is preferentially involved in expression of conditioned fear. As previous lesion studies suggested, the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray may play a role in mediating the immobility component of freezing induced by fear. Other lines of evidence suggest that it may also play a role in mediating the quiescence immobility associated with deep pain. We propose that the ventrolateral column of the periaqueductal gray acts as an integrating centre mediating behavioural inhibition.
In the central nervous system, many of the effects resulting from an increase in the intracellular levels of calcium are mediated by calmodulin, a major calcium-binding protein in the mammalian brain. Calmodulin is expressed by three different genes, namely CaM I, CaM II and CaM III, all of which encode an identical protein. We studied the expression of calmodulin in the mouse brain at different times after the administration of a convulsant dose of kainate, a potent neuroexcitotoxic agent. We detected the presence of the different calmodulin messenger RNAs and of the protein itself in brain sections by in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunocytochemistry respectively. In addition, we determined the calmodulin content in brain regions by radioimmunoassay. Kainate-treated animals did not show areas of neuronal death at the different times following administration considered. An increase in the hybridization signal for CaM I messenger RNAs was observed from 5 h after kainate administration in the different brain regions tested. In contrast, the CaM II messenger RNA signal decreased gradually to a minimum 24 h after treatment in the hippocampus, while the CaM III messenger RNA signal was mostly unaffected. Calmodulin immunoreactivity also increased in the hippocampus. Nevertheless, we did not detect any significant difference in calmodulin content between brain regions of control and treated animals by radioimmunoassay. Kainate treatment induced modifications in the expression of calmodulin at the level of both messenger RNAs and protein. The results suggest a differential regulation of the three calmodulin genes in the adult mouse brain and a post-transcriptional or a post-translational regulation of calmodulin expression.
Corticotropin-releasing factor is known as a stress peptide which stimulates adrenocorticotropin and corticosterone release. It also has a direct central effect to produce various behavioural activations in rats. In the present study, we have designed and studied the effects of an antisense oligonucleotide directed against the corticotropin-releasing factor gene in rats. Local injection of this antisense oligonucleotide into the hippocampus (1 nmol, five injections) significantly impaired the retention performance of an inhibitory avoidance task in rats. In another experiment, the same injection (1 nmol, four injections) also markedly increased rearing response and total distance travelled by rats in a novel activity chamber. Meanwhile, it markedly decreased grooming behaviour in rats. When directly injected into the hypothalamus in another group of animals (1 nmol, four injections), this antisense oligonucleotide significantly decreased the plasma adrenocorticotropin level. The effectiveness of these antisense oligonucleotide treatments was verified by a significant reduction in the level of corticotropin-releasing factor messenger RNA in specific brain regions as determined by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis. These results strengthen the importance of corticotropin-releasing factor in modulating memory processing and exploratory behaviour in rats. This work also provides an important tool for studying other physiological functions that corticotropin-releasing factor may mediate or modulate in mammals.
The beta-amyloid protein precursor (APP) is well conserved across different species and may fulfill important physiological functions within the CNS. While high-level neuronal expression of amyloidogenic forms of human APP results in beta-amyloid production and neurodegeneration, lower levels of neuronal human APP expression in neurons of transgenic mice may primarily accentuate physiological functions of this molecule. To assess the neuroprotective potential of human APP in vivo, mice from seven distinct transgenic lines expressing different human APP isoforms from the neuron-specific enolase promoter were challenged with systemic kainate injections (n=30) or transgene-mediated glial expression of gp120 (n=32), an HIV-1 protein capable of inducing excitotoxic neuronal damage. To quantitate human APP-mediated neuroprotection. the area of neuropil occupied by presynaptic terminals and neuronal dendrites in the neocortex and hippocampus of each mouse was determined using laser scanning confocal microscopy of double-immunolabelled brain sections and computer-aided image analysis. Compared with gp120 singly transgenic controls, mice from three of three human APP751gp120 bigenic lines expressing the 751 amino acid form of human APP at low levels showed significant protection against degeneration of presynaptic terminals; two of these lines also showed significantly less damage to neuronal dendrites. Two of three human APP695/gp120 bigenic lines expressing human APP695 at low levels were protected against presynaptic and dendritic damage, whereas one low expressor line and a human APP695/gp120 bigenic line expressing human APP695 at higher levels showed no significant protection. In the corresponding human APP singly transgenic lines, overexpressing only specific human APP isoforms, significant protection against kainate-induced degeneration of presynaptic terminals and neuronal dendrites was found in two of three human APP751 lines and not in any of the four human APP695 lines tested. These results indicate that human APP can protect neurons against chronic and acute excitotoxic insults in vivo and that human APP isoforms differ in their neuroprotective potential, at least with respect to specific forms of neural injury. It is therefore possible that impairments of neuroprotective human APP functions or aberrant shifts in human APP isoform ratios could contribute to neurodegeneration.
Intracerebroventricular injection of 192 IgG antibody against the p75LNGFR rat low affinity nerve growth factor receptor conjugated with saporin, a ribosome inactivating protein, has been shown to destroy the p75LNGFR-expressing cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain. We injected this immunotoxin into the hippocampus and studied its retrograde effect upon the cholinergic neurons of the medial septum and the vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca. Seven days after injection, there was a nearly total depletion of cholinergic axons within the hippocampus. This depletion was associated with a marked and significant decrease in the number of cholinergic neurons of the ipsilateral medial septum and the vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca. At longer survival times, these changes were more pronounced. Parvalbumin-positive, GABAergic neurons within the same areas of the basal forebrain were not affected by immunotoxin injections. Injections of saporin alone had no effect upon cholinergic neurons. Simultaneous injection of colchicine with the immunotoxin resulted in a significant reduction of retrograde degeneration of cholinergic neurons and relative preservation of hippocampal cholinergic axons. These observations suggest that 192 IgG-saporin is transported retrogradely from the hippocampus to the cholinergic neurons in the medial septum and the vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca and provide a model for retrograde degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons following cortically based toxic-pathologic processes.
Abnormal interactions between serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) and glucocorticoids, notably in the hippocampus, may underpin neuroendocrine, affective and cognitive dysfunction in depression and ageing. Glucocorticoids act via intracellular glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors, whereas 5-hydroxytryptamine binds to a family of transmembrane sites; both cross- and auto-regulation have been proposed. To determine the roles of 5-hydroxytryptamine and corticosterone in the short-term control of hippocampal receptor gene expression, we used 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (20 mg/kg), which causes acute release of both 5-hydroxytryptamine and corticosterone. 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine increased mineralocorticoid receptor messenger RNA expression throughout the hippocampus after 16 h. In rats with fixed glucocorticoid levels (adrenalectomy plus corticosterone pellets) this effect was lost in CA1-4, suggesting corticosterone-mediation, but maintained in the dentate gyrus, indicating 5-hydroxytryptamine involvement. In contrast, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine decreased glucocorticoid receptor messenger RNA expression in the dentate gyrus and CA1 within 4 h, but only in adrenal-intact rats, suggesting corticosterone control. 5-Hydroxytryptamine1A receptor messenger RNA expression was decreased in CA1 in both groups of rats, but increased in the dentate gyrus only in corticosterone-fixed rats, suggesting 5-hydroxytryptamine differentially regulates expression of this gene within hippocampal subfields. 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptor messenger RNA was decreased in ventral CA1 only in adrenal-intact rats, suggesting a corticosterone effect, and decreased in the subiculum in both groups, indicating 5-hydroxytryptamine mediation. These results show the complexity and intricate subregional-specificity of 5-hydroxytryptamine and corticosterone interactions upon hippocampal corticosteroid and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor gene expression. 3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced alterations in hippocampal receptor gene expression may play a role in the mood and behavioural changes associated with this drug of abuse.
The neuronal organization and patterns of afferent innervation are abnormal in the cingulate cortex in schizophrenia, and associated changes in synaptic terminals could be present. A panel of monoclonal antibodies was defined with biochemical and fusion protein studies as detecting syntaxin (antibody SP6), synaptophysin (antibody SP4) and synaptosomal-associated protein-25 (antibody SP12). These antibodies and a polyclonal antibody reactive with neural cell adhesion molecule were used to investigate the cingulate cortex in schizophrenia. Immunocytochemistry indicated that syntaxin immunoreactivity had a considerably wider distribution than synaptophysin. Overall, multivariate analysis indicated increased synaptic terminal protein immunoreactivity in schizophrenia compared to controls (P=0.004). Controlled for age and post mortem interval, syntaxin immunoreactivity was significantly elevated in schizophrenia (P=0.004), and neural cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity was also elevated (P=0.05). The neural cell adhesion molecule to synaptophysin ratio was increased (P=0.005), possibly indicating the presence of less mature synapses in schizophrenia. Elevated syntaxin immunoreactivity is consistent with increased glutamatergic afferents to the cingulate cortex in schizophrenia, and combined with the neural cell adhesion molecule to synaptophysin ratio results suggests that synaptic function in this region in schizophrenia may be abnormal.
The entopeduncular nucleus is one of the major output nuclei of the basal ganglia, with topographically organized projections to both motor and limbic structures. Neurons of the entopeduncular nucleus use GABA as the principal transmitter, and glutamic acid decarboxylase (the GABA synthetic enzyme) is widely distributed throughout the region. Previous studies have shown that glutamate decarboxylase exists in two forms (glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 and glutamic acid decarboxylase-67), and that the messenger RNAs for these different enzymes are widely distributed in rat brain. The purpose of the present experiment was to describe the distribution of glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 and glutamic decarboxylase-67 messenger RNAs throughout the entopeduncular nucleus using recently developed oligodeoxynucleotide probes and in situ hybridization histochemical methods. In agreement with previous studies, northern analysis of rat brain poly(A)+ messenger RNA preparations showed that the glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 and glutamic acid decarboxylase-67 probes used in the present study hybridized to messenger RNAs of approximately 5.7 and 3.7 kb, respectively. Film autoradiographic analysis revealed large region-dependent, isoform-specific differences in the levels of expression of the two messenger RNAs, with glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 messenger RNA predominating in rostral and medial regions of the entopeduncular nucleus and glutamic acid decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA most abundant in the caudal region. Cellular analysis showed that these region-dependent differences in labelling were due to differences in the relative amounts of glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 and glutamic acid decarboxylase-67 messenger RNAs expressed per cell rather than the number of cells expressing each form of glutamic acid decarboxylase messenger RNA. The differences in the distribution of glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 and glutamic acid decarboxylase-67 messenger RNAs are closely related to the organization of limbic and motor circuits of the entopeduncular nucleus, suggesting that GABAergic transmission through the limbic pathway is regulated predominantly by glutamic acid decarboxylase-65, whereas glutamic acid decarboxylase-67 is of principal importance in the motor pathway. These data provide additional evidence that the neurons of the limbic and motor subregions of the entopeduncular nucleus are neurochemically distinct.
Lesioning of the mammalian striatum with the excitotoxin quinolinic acid results in a pattern of neuropathology that resembles that of post mortem Huntington's disease brain. Certain neurotrophic factors can rescue degenerating cells in a variety of lesion types, including those produced by neurotoxins. Several neurotrophic factors promote the survival of striatal neurons and/or are localized within the striatum. Of these factors, neurotrophin-4/5 and transforming growth factor-alpha were chosen for administration to rats lesioned with quinolinic acid. Adult rats received a single unilateral intrastriatal injection of quinolinic acid (120 nmol) and either trophic factors or the control protein cytochrome c for seven days thereafter. The pattern of phenotypic degeneration was assessed by immunocytochemical labeling of various striatal neuronal populations at five rostrocaudal levels. Quinolinic acid produced a preferential loss in the number of cells immunoreactive for glutamate decarboxylase, with a relative sparing of the number of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cells and, to a lesser degree, calretinin-immunoreactive cells. None of these phenotypic populations was protected by either neurotrophin-4/5 or transforming growth factor-alpha. In contrast, when glutamate decarboxylase cells were alternatively identified by calbindin immunolabeling, both factors were found to have partially reversed the loss in the number of calbindin-positive cells induced by excitolesioning. In addition, the loss in the number of parvalbumin-immunopositive cells due to quinolinic acid was partially reversed by neurotrophin-4/5, while the loss in the number of NADPH-diaphorase-stained cells was partially reversed by transforming growth factor-alpha. These findings reveal a new population of striatal cells, calretinin neurons, that are relatively resistant to quinolinic acid toxicity and that neurotrophin-4/5 and transforming growth factor-alpha partially protect against the phenotypic degeneration of striatal cell populations in an in vivo animal model of Huntington's disease.
The effects of intranigrally- or intraventricularly-administered glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor were tested on low dose (0.05 mg/kg) apomorphine-induced rotations and tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the substantia nigra and striatum of stable 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. In addition, we determined if 6-hydroxydopamine lesions in the absence or presence of treatment affected neuropeptide (substance P, met-enkephalin, dynorphin) content in the striatum. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, when administered intranigrally, prevented apomorphine-induced rotational behaviour for 11 weeks following a single injection. In comparison, intraventricularly-administered glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor produced a transient reduction in rotational behaviour that lasted for two to three weeks following a single injection. We also show that rotational behaviour is reduced following each subsequent intraventricular injection of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor given every six weeks, a time-point when baseline rotation deficits were re-established. Intranigrally- or intraventricularly-administered glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor significantly reduced weight gain in all 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats in this study. Following behavioural analysis where a confirmed improvement of behaviour was established, tissues were dissected for neurochemical analysis. In lesioned rats with intranigral injections of administered glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, significant increases of nigral, but not striatal tyrosine hydroxylase activity were measured. Additionally, 6-hydroxydopamine lesions significantly increased striatal dynorphin (61-139%) and met-enkephalin (81-139%), but not substance P levels. In these rats, intranigrally-administered glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor injections reversed lesion-induced increases in nigral dynorphin A levels and increased nigral dopamine levels, but did not alter nigral met-enkephalin or substance P levels nor striatal dopamine levels. In lesioned rats with intraventricular injections of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, tyrosine hydroxylase ispilateral to the lesion was increased in the substantia nigra, but not in the striatum. Intraventricularly-administered glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor did not reverse lesion-induced increases in nigral dynorphin A or met-enkephalin levels nor did glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor affect substance P levels in the striatum. These results suggest that in an animal model of Parkinson's disease, the neurotrophic factor glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor reverses behavioural consequences of 6-hydroxydopamine administration, an effect that may involve both dopaminergic and peptidergic neurotransmission.

State-dependent aspects of consciousness are explored with particular attention to waking and dreaming. First, those phenomenological differences between waking and dreaming that have been established through subjective reports are reviewed. These differences are robustly expressed in most aspects of consciousness including perception, attention, memory, emotion, orientation, and thought. Next, the roles of high frequency neuronal oscillation and neuromodulation are explored in waking and rapid eye movement sleep, the stage of sleep with which the most intense dreaming is associated. The high frequency neuronal oscillations serve similar functions in the wake and rapid eye movement states sleep but neuromodulation is very different in the two states. The collective high frequency oscillatory activity gives coherence to spatially separate neurons but, because of the different neuromodulation, the binding of sensory input in the wake state is very different from the binding of internally perceived input during rapid eye movement sleep. An explanatory model is presented which states that neuromodulation, as well as input source and brain activation level differentiate states of the brain, while the self-organized collective neuronal oscillations unify consciousness via long range correlations.
Age-related changes in the expression of Na,K-ATPase catalytic (alpha) subunit isoform messenger RNAs were investigated by in situ hybridization in frontal-parietal cortex of Fischer-344 male rats. It was found that the density of alpha1-messenger RNA, present in glia and some neurons, increases dramatically in the neuropil of cortex and in the corpus callosum of the aged (24 months) as compared to young (three months) rats. In contrast, levels of alpha3-messenger RNA, which is neuron-specific, decrease dramatically over the neurons of layers III and V and retrosplenial cortex in the aged as compared to the young animals, despite no changes in cellular density. The declines in the levels of neuron-specific alpha3-messenger RNA may constitute a very early change in age-related differentiation of brain. These changes in Na,K-ATPase isoform expression may represent a candidate for an age-related factor predisposing to or potentiating certain neurodegenerative diseases.
We have studied the expression of genes for neuronal microtubule-associated proteins in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures using immunoblotting and polymerase chain reaction combined with reverse transcription on a single-slice basis. We found that for microtubule-associated protein 2 and tau the same developmental transition from embryonic to adult splice variants occurs in the cultures as has been described previously in intact brain. This finding indicates that the maturation profile of these proteins is not determined by extrinsic inputs but by a cell-autonomous programme or local factors within the hippocampus. Our study corroborates previous data for the maturation of hippocampal slice cultures and is also the first biochemical analysis on the level of the neuronal cytoskeleton of this widely used model system for the hippocampus.


To estimate and to prevent the developmental brain damage caused by maternal environmental agents, the results were compared between epidemiological and experimental studies. I. Ethanol. The features of CNS involvement in human FAS (fetal alcohol syndrome) and FAE (fetal alcohol effects) were developmental delay and intellectual impairment. In rat FAS or FAE, a beneficial effect of supplementary zinc on the fetal cerebrum was observed, but was limited. The consistent dysformation of synapses during early brain development may be associated with the functional impairment of CNS in FAS and FAE II. Caffeine. A reduction in the fetal cerebral weight was observed with caffeine ingestion during pregnancy at levels of 1.5-3.0 micrograms caffeine/ml or g wet wt. in dams and fetuses. Maternal caffeine disturbs the neonatal cerebrum and produces behavioral abnormalities in developing rats. III. X-irradiation. Our study provides evidence of the protection by vitamin E of neuronal development in X-irradiated rat fetuses, through its antioxidant properties, against attacks by free radicals and/or lipid peroxide. IV. Low copper level in brain. A teratogenic effect of triethylene tetramine dihydrochloride, a chelating drug for copper, on the mouse brain was noted, both grossly and microscopically, with a dose of higher than 6,000 micrograms/l, which is twenty times as high as the clinical treatment dose. V. Tobacco. Thirty-three percent of human FTS (fetal tobacco syndrome) cases had CNS involvement, which was characterized by developmental delay. Fifty percent or more of FTS children of women who smoked more than 20 cigarettes per day had CNS involvement. In conclusion, the concomitant effects of maternal environmental agents on human brain development should be studied.

Anorectic drugs such as mazindol bind to a class of low-affinity, sodium-sensitive sites in the brain which are affected by ambient glucose concentrations and a predisposition to develop diet-induced obesity (DIO). This study used quantitative autoradiography of 10 nM 3H-mazindol binding to identify the cellular location of these putative anorectic binding sites in the brain and to assess the way in which the development of DIO affected their binding. We previously showed that chow-fed, obesity-prone rats have widespread increases in brain 3H-mazindol binding to these low-affinity sites as compared with diet-resistant (DR) rats. Here, low-affinity 3H-mazindol binding was assessed in the brains of eight rats which developed DIO vs. eight which were DR after three months on a high-energy diet. DIO rats gained 89% more weight and had 117% higher plasma insulin levels but no difference in plasma glucose levels compared with DR rats. Along with these differences, low-affinity 3H-mazindol binding in DIO rats was identical to that in DR rats in all of the 23 brain areas assessed. This suggested that this binding was downregulated by the development of obesity in DIO rats. In other chow-fed rats, stereotaxic injections of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine and 6-hydroxydopamine (6OHDA) to ablate serotonin and catecholamine nerve terminals in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMN) had no effect on 3H-mazindol binding. However, ibotenic acid injected into the VMN, substantia nigra, pars reticulata, and pars compacta destroyed intrinsic neurons and/or their local processes and decreased low-affinity 3H-mazindol binding by 13%-22%. Destruction of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra, pars compacta, and noradrenergic neurons in the locus ceruleus with 6OHDA also reduced 3H-mazindol binding in those areas by 9% and 12%, respectively. This suggested that up to 22% of putative anorectic binding sites may be located on the cell bodies of dopamine, norepinephrine, and other neurons, but not on serotonin or catecholamine nerve terminals in the brain. Binding to these sites may be downregulated by the development of DIO, possibly as a result of the concomitant hyperinsulinemia.
The contributions of B1 and B2 bradykinin receptors to acute and chronic inflammatory hyperalgesia were examined using the peptide B1 receptor antagonist des-Arg9[Leu8]bradykinin and transgenic Bk2r-/- mice. In normal rats and mice, des-Arg9[Leu8]bradykinin (30 nmol/kg i.v. or s.c.) inhibited carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia and the late phase nociceptive response to formalin. The active dose range was narrow, suggesting partial agonist activity of this peptide. In rats with monoarthritis, des-Arg9[Leu8]bradykinin (up to 30 nmol/kg i.v.) failed to reduce the number of vocalisations elicited by gentle flexion and extension of the inflamed limb; however, hyperalgesia was exacerbated by administration of the B1 receptor agonist des-[Arg9]bradykinin (100 nmol/kg i.v.), consistent with other evidence for local induction of B1 receptors during adjuvant-induced arthritis. The nociceptive response to intraplantar injection of bradykinin (10 nmol) and hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan (0.6 mg) were absent in Bk2r-/- mice, indicating that stimulation of B2 receptors is an essential step in the initiation of some nociceptive and inflammatory reactions. However, the nociceptive response to formalin (2.5% intraplantar), including inhibition of the late phase by des-Arg9[Leu8]bradykinin (0.3 nmol), and induction of thermal hyperalgesia by Freund's adjuvant (0.1%) appeared intact in Bk2r-/- mice. These findings support other evidence for an involvement of B1 receptors in inflammatory hyperalgesia and suggest that B1 receptor antagonists may be clinically useful as anti-inflammatory and analgesic drugs.
The analgesic effects of the rat in response to electroacupuncture (EA) or low-dose morphine (3 mg/kg) show marked individual variations. In the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) of the rat, the content of the neuropeptide cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) was found to be significantly higher in the low responder (LR) rats as compared to that in the high responders (HR). Since PAG has been shown to be a strategic site for CCK-8 to exert an anti-opioid action, a high CCK content in PAG may account for the low analgesic responsiveness to EA and morphine. In order to block the expression of the gene encoding preproCCK in the brain, antisense CCK expression vector pSV2-CCKAS was microinjected into the lateral cerebral ventricle of the rat, leading to a decrease of the CCK-mRNA as well as the CCK-8 content in rat brain. This effect started 4 days after the intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of the antisense expression vector, and lasted no more than 1 week. This procedure was shown to be very effective in converting LR rats into HR for EA analgesia and morphine analgesia, and also delayed the development of tolerance elicited by prolonged EA stimulation or repeated morphine administration. The time course of the augmentation of opioid analgesia (4-6 days after the i.c.v. injection of the expression vector) paralleled the decrease of the brain CCK-8 content. The results argue that blocking the CCK gene expression in the brain may tilt the balance between opioid and anti-opioid peptides in favor of the former, thus strengthening the EA analgesia and morphine analgesia, and delaying the development of opioid tolerance.
In anesthetized cats, recordings were obtained from single lumbar dorsal horn neurons and from primary afferent fibers of the posterior tibial nerve excited by controlled noxious radiant heating of glabrous hindpaw skin. Electrical stimulation in four brain stem regions (periaqueductal gray and lateral reticular formation in the midbrain, raphe and reticular formation in the medulla) during noxious skin heating markedly reduced the nociceptive excitation of the dorsal horn neurons. In contrast, such brain stem stimulation had small and variable effects upon the noxious heat-evoked activity in the primary afferent fibers; both increases and decreases were observed. The brain stimulation also produced transient changes in blood pressure, suggesting that circulatory effects may underlie the mechanism of nociceptor modulation. It is concluded that brain stem stimulation can modulate cutaneous nociceptor activity, but that this modulatory effect on nociceptor inflow is too small and inconsistent to explain the marked descending inhibition of the nociceptive excitation of dorsal horn neurons.
Scratching the skin, while instantly relieving itch, often aggravates itch over time due to skin injury. To relieve itch, without damaging the skin, a new technique termed cutaneous field stimulation (CFS) was developed and tested on 21 subjects. CFS uses a flexible plate with needle-like electrodes (n = 16) to electrically stimulate nerve fibres in the superficial skin. The electrodes were stimulated consecutively (4 Hz per electrode, pulse duration 1 ms, intensity 0.4-0.8 mA, 25 min). CFS resulted in a pricking and burning sensation that usually faded rather quickly. The burning sensation was still present during a selective block of impulse conduction in myelinated fibres indicating that nociceptive C-fibres are activated by CFS. Furthermore, a flare reaction developed around the CFS electrodes indicating activation of axon reflexes in nociceptive C-fibres. Itch, elicited by transdermal iontophoresis of histamine, was abolished within the skin area pre-treated with CFS, and was reduced to 14% of control 10 cm distally. Contralateral effects were small or non-existent. After 4 h, itch was reduced ipsilaterally to 32% of control. In comparison, 2 h after transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS; 10-20 mA, 100 Hz, 25 min) ipsilateral itch was reduced to 56% of control. In conclusion, CFS offers a powerful new method for combating itch. It is suggested that CFS acts through endogenous central inhibitory mechanisms that are normally activated by scratching the skin.
We evaluated brainstem dysfunction in a girl with Leigh disease. Neuroradiological and neurophysiological tests included brain magnetic resonance imaging, [123I]IMP single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), auditory brainstem responses (ABRs), short-latency somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs), electrically elicited blink reflexes (BRs) and all night polysomnography (PSG). The basal ganglia and midbrain contained areas of low accumulation on [123I]IMP SPECT images. Serial analysis of ABRs and SSEPs showed progressive disturbances of the brainstem wave components. The R2 components of the BRs were impaired. All night PSG revealed disturbances in both the tonic and phasic components of REM sleep. These findings suggested the multimodality tests in combination with neuroradiologic examinations are useful for assessing brainstem dysfunction in patients with Leigh disease.
Extremely low birth weight (ELBW) infants with periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) were examined by neuropathological and immunohistochemical methods. Thirteen ELBW infants of 85 infants with PVL, born at 23 to 27 weeks of gestation, showed a widespread type of distribution of PVL from the deep to intermediate white matter. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes to be increased in the deep white matter, often spreading to the intermediate white matter, in all cases of PVL. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)-positive cells were found in the deep to intermediate white matter in 69% of PVL cases and appeared earlier, from 23 weeks of gestation, than in controls. beta-Amyloid precursor protein (beta APP)-positive axons were found around PVL in the deep to intermediate white matter in 85% of the cases. In age-matched control ELBW infants, GFAP-, TNF-alpha-, or beta APP-positive cells were never found. Therefore, in ELBW infants, widespread axonal damage and glial activation with cytokine production occur in the progression in characteristic PVL lesions.
Electroencephalographic (EEG) studies have shown that corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) administration induces EEG activation, decreases sleep time both in rats and humans and modifies the sleep pattern in sleep deprived rats. In the present study we have investigated whether CRF neuronal activity could be altered in a situation of disrupted sleep-wake cycle. Sleep deprivation (SD) was induced by keeping the rat for 72 h on a small platform (7 cm) surrounded by water. Immediately after the SD period rats were killed and CRF levels and CRF receptor binding were evaluated in different brain areas. A marked increase in CRF levels was present in the striatum (+224%), limbic areas (+144%) and pituitary (+42%) whereas the hypothalamic CRF content was reduced (-57%). A significant decrease in CRF binding was found in the striatum (-33%) and pituitary (-38%) of sleep deprived rats. These results indicate that CRF neuronal activity is stimulated by SD, suggesting that CRF might play an important role in the physiological regulation of the sleep-wake cycle and that an altered CRF neuronal activity might be involved in behavioral modifications related to sleep disturbances.
This article reviews the neural control of posture as understood through studies of automatic responses to mechanical perturbations. Recent studies of responses to postural perturbations have provided a new view of how postural stability is controlled, and this view has profound implications for physical therapy practice. We discuss the implications for rehabilitation of balance disorders and demonstrate how an understanding of the specific systems underlying postural control can help to focus and enrich our therapeutic approaches. By understanding the basic systems underlying control of balance, such as strategy selection, rapid latencies, coordinated temporal spatial patterns, force control, and context-specific adaptations, therapists can focus their treatment on each patient's specific impairments. Research on postural responses to surface translations has shown that balance is not based on a fixed set of equilibrium reflexes but on a flexible, functional motor skill that can adapt with training and experience. More research is needed to determine the extent to which quantification of automatic postural responses has practical implications for predicting falls in patients with constraints in their postural control system.
Flumazenil, a partial benzodiazepine agonist with low intrinsic activity, was tested for potential use in patients experiencing withdrawal symptoms after traditional treatment for benzodiazepine dependency. On two occasions, separated by 1-13 weeks, ten patients treated for benzodiazepine dependency and ten controls received cumulative doses of flumazenil (0.05, 0.10, 0.25, 0.50 and 1.00 mg at 15-min intervals) or placebo, with assessments of withdrawal symptoms and physiological variables after each dose. As expected, there was an overall difference between patients and controls, with patients scoring higher on negative and somatic items and lower on positive psychological items. Flumazenil reduced symptoms thought to be important in withdrawal in patients treated for benzodiazepine dependency. In contrast to the patient group, controls reacted in the opposite direction with increases in negative experience when given flumazenil. Further research may develop flumazenil as a therapeutic option in the treatment of benzodiazepine withdrawal.
Nefiracetam is undergoing preclinical and clinical tests as a cognition-enhancing drug in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Nicotinic cholinergic receptors are lost in AD, and nicotinic as well as muscarinic cholinergic receptors are involved in the modulation of eyeblink conditioning. Experiments were carried out using young rabbits to examine the effect of nefiracetam on cholinergic antagonists to nicotinic (mecamylamine) and muscarinic (scopolamine) receptors. Rabbits were tested for 15 days in the 750 ms delay eyeblink classical conditioning paradigm in paired and explicitly unpaired conditions. Nefiracetam at a dose of 15 mg/kg significantly ameliorated the effects of 0.5 mg/kg mecamylamine, and nefiracetam at a dose of 10 mg/kg significantly ameliorated the effect of 1.5 mg/kg scopolamine. The vehicle alone and nefiracetam alone groups performed similarly to the groups treated with mecamylamine or scopolamine and nefiracetam. Reversal by nefiracetam of a nicotinic as well as a muscarinic cholinergic antagonist indicates that the drug may affect deficits specific to AD.
The development of behavioural sensitization is thought to depend on the dose and temporal pattern of drug treatment. Previous studies have shown that two distinct morphine pretreatment regimens cause different long-term neuroadaptations in rat striatum. Therefore, in the present study the ability of these pretreatment regimens to induce long-term behavioural sensitization was investigated. One pretreatment regimen, termed &quot;chronic&quot;, consisted of three daily injections, for 5 days, with escalating doses (10-50 mg/kg) of morphine, and the other, termed &quot;intermittent&quot;, of 14 daily injections with morphine (10 mg/kg). Both intermittent and chronic morphine pretreatment caused sensitization to the locomotor effects of morphine, 3 weeks post-treatment, although the former induced a far greater level of sensitization. Moreover, 3 weeks post-treatment, intermittent, but not chronic, morphine pretreatment induced cross-sensitization to the locomotor stimulant effects of amphetamine. Behavioural sensitization following intermittent morphine pretreatment was clear-cut both 1 day and 3 weeks post-treatment, while after 9 weeks, the locomotor effects of morphine were still slightly augmented. It is concluded that intermittent morphine pretreatment is far more effective in inducing long-term behavioural sensitization than chronic morphine pretreatment.
To determine whether alterations in 5-HT1A receptor mediated responses induced by a single injection with a selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist is a transient effect, or whether the (de)sensitisation is more persistent, rats were pretreated with the selective and full 5-HT1A receptor agonist, flesinoxan (3 mg/kg SC once daily) for either 1 day or 1 week. Twenty-four hour after the last pretreatment injection, rats were challenged with flesinoxan (3 mg/kg SC), and the effects on plasma corticosterone and prolactin levels, lower lip retraction and behaviour in the shock-probe burying test were determined. Several 5-HT1A receptor mediated responses were modified differentially following the flesinoxan pretreatment. However, all changes induced by a single flesinoxan injection remained present upon repeated flesinoxan administration. The differential changes in the responses to flesinoxan cannot easily be explained by differences in pre- or postsynaptically 5-HT1A mediated responses. The prolactin response to flesinoxan, which is thought to be mediated postsynaptically, was enhanced, whereas the corticosterone response to flesinoxan, which is also mediated postsynaptically, was attenuated. The presynaptically mediated lower lip retraction response was attenuated as well, whereas the behavioural effects of flesinoxan remained relatively unaffected following repeated flesinoxan administration. Upon prolonged flesinoxan pretreatment, the changes induced by a single flesinoxan injection remained present or increased further. Although repeated flesinoxan administration (1 day and 1 week) resulted in 20% lower plasma flesinoxan concentrations, this effect could not explain the neuroendocrine and behavioural findings.
The present study was designed to investigate the efficacy of stimulation of alpha1-adrenoceptors and the strychnine insensitive glycine-B binding sites of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex to alleviate the age-related defect in water maze (WM) spatial (hidden platform) navigation. We found that daily pretraining IP treatment with 2-(2-chloro-5-trifluoromethylphenylamino) imidazole nitrate (ST 587), an alpha1-adrenoceptor agonist, at 3000 micrograms/kg, but not at 1000 micrograms/kg, facilitated acquisition of water maze spatial navigation in aged rats. However, ST 587 3000 micrograms/kg (IP) did not stimulate WM spatial reversal learning or cue navigation to a visible platform in aged rats. A partial strychnine insensitive glycine-B binding site agonist, D-cycloserine (DCS) at 10000 micrograms/kg stimulated acquisition of WM navigation, but had no effect on reversal learning or cue navigation. DCS at 1000 or 3000 micrograms/kg (IP) had no marked effect on WM spatial navigation, and did not enhance the WM performance improving effect of ST 587 in aged rats. A subthreshold dose of ST 587 1000 micrograms/kg did not enhance the therapeutic effect of DCS 1000 micrograms/kg. The present results indicate that activation of alpha1-adrenoceptors and glycine binding sites of NMDA receptor may to some extent alleviate the age-related defect in spatial navigation. DCS treatment does not enhance the therapeutic effects of ST 587 and vice versa.

Renin is an aspartyl protease that is involved in the conversion of angiotensinogen to angitensin II and hence participates in the regulation of blood pressure. Mice are polymorphic for the number of renin genes with some strains harbouring two renin genes, Ren-1d and Ren-2. To study the role of renin Ren-1d in regulating cardiovascular homeostasis, mice with a disrupted Ren-1d gene were created. Analyses of kidney renin mRNA expression in Ren-1d-/-/Ren-2+/+ mice demonstrated that only Ren-2 transcripts were present. Mean arterial blood pressures of Ren-1d+/+/Ren-2+/+, Ren-1d+/-/Ren-2+/+ and Ren-1d-/-/Ren-2+/+ mice showed no significant differences. These observations demonstrate that the Ren-1d gene product is not essential for normal blood pressure maintenance under normal physiological conditions.
The cognitive study of the underlying mental abnormalities in autism has advanced rapidly, while the biological study of the underlying brain abnormalities and of putative genetic mechanisms is lagging somewhat behind. However, the linking of cognitive and biological studies has become a real possibility. Developmental cognitive neuroscience has transformed our understanding of this enigmatic disorder, which was once misguidedly thought to be caused by maternal rejection. The hypothesis of a specific theory of mind deficit was a crucial step in this process. It explains the puzzle of the characteristic social and communication impairments of autism and allows for the fact that they can coexist with good general abilities. This hypothesis has been widely accepted and a start has been made at pinpointing the brain basis of theory of mind. The non-social impairments of autism have now become a major focus for cognitive research. One theory proposes dysfunction in executive processes, in an attempt to explain repetitive behaviour and inflexibility. Another theory proposes weak information integration, in an attempt to explain narrow interests and special talents. Autism research has thus stimulated ideas on important mind-brain systems that may be dedicated to the development of social awareness, executive functions and integrative processing.
Exquisite embryonic lethal mutations have been isolated in hundreds of genes necessary for zebrafish development. Analysis of this resource promises to enhance our understanding of the molecular genetic mechanisms of vertebrate development. This review discusses the state of the zebrafish genome project and the genetic trickery that can expedite molecular isolation of genes disrupted by these mutations.
A wide variety of techniques have been employed for the detection and measurement of neurotransmitter release from biological preparations. Whilst many of these methods offer impressive levels of sensitivity, few are able to combine sensitivity with the necessary temporal and spatial resolution required to study quantal release from single cells. One detection method that is seeing a revival of interest and has the potential to fill this niche is the so-called 'sniffer-patch' technique. In this article, specific examples of the practical aspects of using this technique are discussed along with the procedures involved in calibrating these biosensors to extend their applications to provide quantitative, in addition to simple qualitative, measurements of quantal transmitter release.
We recorded visual evoked potentials in response to square-wave contrast-reversal checkerboards undergoing a transition in the mean contrast level. Checkerboards were modulated at 4.22 Hz (8.45-Hz reversal rate). After each set of 16 cycles of reversals, stimulus contrast abruptly switched between a &quot;high&quot; contrast level (0.06 to 1.0) to a &quot;low&quot; contrast level (0.03 to 0.5). Higher contrasts attenuated responses to lower contrasts by up to a factor of 2 during the period immediately following the contrast change. Contrast-response functions derived from the initial second following a conditioning contrast shifted by a factor of 2-4 along the contrast axis. For low-contrast stimuli, response phase was an advancing function of the contrast level in the immediately preceding second. For high-contrast stimuli, response phase was independent of the prior contrast history. Steady stimulation for periods as long as 1 min produced only minor effects on response amplitude, and no detectable effects on response phase. These observations delineate the dynamics of a contrast gain control in human vision.
Two-dimensional sum-of-sines waveforms were pursued by the eye with very small phase delays compared with visual feedback delays estimated in the same monkeys. Processing delays in making smooth corrections averaged 90 msec after infrequent right-angle perturbations from a circular trajectory. These feedback delays were much larger than component phase delays during pursuit that averaged: 10 msec for sinusoids, 3 msec for circles, 20 msec for sum-of-two-sines trajectories, and 19 msec for sum-of-three-sines trajectories. This suggests that predictive control can play a strong role during tracking for a variety of simple and complex target trajectories.
We have previously shown that contrast affects speed perception, with lower-contrast, drifting gratings perceived as moving slower. In a recent study, we examined the implications of this result on models of speed perception that use the amplitude of the response of linear spatio-temporal filters to determine speed. In this study, we investigate whether the contrast dependence of speed can be understood within the context of models in which speed estimation is made using the temporal frequency of the response of linear spatio-temporal filters. We measured the effect of contrast on flicker perception and found that contrast manipulations produce opposite effects on perceived drift rate and perceived flicker rate, i.e., reducing contrast increases the apparent temporal frequency of counterphase modulated gratings. This finding argues that, if a temporal frequency-based algorithm underlies speed perception, either flicker and speed perception must not be based on the output of the same mechanism or contrast effects on perceived spatial frequency reconcile the disparate effects observed for perceived temporal frequency and speed.
There is wide consensus that drowsiness and sleep during driving put the driver and others at high risk for motor vehicle crashes. A large percentage of both private automobile and commercial vehicle crashes and crash fatalities are associated with the sleepy driver each year. Sleepiness in persons without sleep disorders may occur from potentially preventable causes such as sleep deprivation, drinking alcohol or taking sedative medications. Sleepiness also occurs uncontrollably in persons with certain sleep disorders. It is important, therefore, for persons to have a diagnosis of a sleep disorder, objectively confirmed with an MSLT, to be considered for restriction of driving privileges. The MSLT serves as a marker for the sleep disorder and also as evidence of effective treatment. While sleepiness is widespread, this regulation addresses only the highest risk group for attention. Proposed guidelines for sleep related disorders and driving in Wisconsin are presented with this background in mind.
The choice of reconstruction after gastrectomy and the significance of remaining reservoir function is a matter of controversy. To broaden the criteria for choice of treatment, we conducted a prospective randomized clinical trial to determine the impact of various gastrectomy procedures on quality of life. Consecutive patients (n = 64) eligible for curative gastric cancer surgery were randomized to have either a total (n = 31) or subtotal (n = 13) gastrectomy or a jejunal S-shaped pouch (n = 20) implanted as a gastric substitute. The quality-of-life evaluation was based on a battery of questionnaires covering both general and specific aspects of life. The patients were rated by one of two psychiatrists who were blinded to the patients' group affiliation. Assessments were made on three occasions: during the week prior to surgery and 3 and 12 months after the surgical intervention. The postoperative complication and mortality rates were similar in all treatment groups, with few serious complications recorded. Irrespective of type of treatment, the patients suffered from alimentary symptoms and functional limitations in everyday life, whereas their mental well-being improved after surgery. Patients who underwent subtotal gastrectomy had the best outcome, especially with respect to complaints of diarrhea. Patients given a gastric substitute after gastrectomy showed no difference from those who had only a total gastrectomy. We conclude that despite significant unfavorable consequences that follow gastrectomy, patients recover with an improved mental status. A pouch reconstruction after total gastrectomy does not improve quality of life, but a subtotal gastrectomy has advantages that must be considered when the procedure is clinically feasible.

Prosaposin, the precursor of saposins A, B, C, and D, was recently identified as a neurotrophic factor. Herein prosaposin was found to increase sulfatide concentrations in primary and transformed Schwann cells (iSC) and oligodendrocytes (differentiated CG4 cells). Of the four mature saposins, only saposin C was found to increase sulfatide concentrations in these cell types. A similar result was obtained by using peptides (prosaptides) encompassing the neurotrophic sequence located in the saposin C domain. Dose-response curves demonstrated maximal enhancement by saposin C and prosaptides at low nanomolar concentrations (5-10 nM). The increase in sulfatide concentration by a 14-mer prosaptide, TX14(A), in CG4 oligodendrocytes was about 3-fold greater than in primary Schwann cells. A mutant prosaptide with a single amino acid replacement of Asn --&gt; Asp was inactive. Prosaptides did not induce cell proliferation of primary Schwann cells, iSC cells, or CG4 oligodendrocytes but nanomolar concentrations of prosaptides prevented cell death of iSC cells and CG4 oligodendrocytes. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated that phosphorylation of both mitogen-activated protein kinase p-42 and p-44 isoforms were enhanced 3- to 5-fold after 5 min of treatment with prosaptides at concentrations of 1-5 nM. These findings suggest that prosaposin and prosaptides bind to a receptor that initiates signal transduction to promote myelin lipid synthesis and prolong cell survival in both Schwann cells and oligodendrocytes. Prosaposin may function as a myelinotrophic factor in vivo during development and repair of myelinated nerves explaining the deficiency of myelin observed in prosaposin-deficient mice and humans.
Xenopus oocytes devoid of their follicular enclosure provide a frequently used expression system for investigating receptors that transduce through activation of adenylyl cyclase following injection of the appropriate mRNA. However, due to a low basal activity of the cyclase they cannot be utilized to investigate receptor-mediated reductions in endogenous cAMP levels. In order to overcome this limitation, a model was designed in which test clones for such inhibitory receptors were co-expressed with a beta 2-adrenoceptor, which elevated cAMP upon exposure to isoproterenol. Following injection of mRNA to express the alpha 2 test receptor in the oocytes, marked reduction in cAMP could be measured after exposure to clonidine. Attenuation of cAMP levels was also seen following co-expression of the dopamine D2 receptor along with dopamine administration. Thus, after inducing a receptor-mediated tone in adenylyl cyclase activity, Xenopus oocytes can be conveniently used to study also ligands that bind to inhibitory G-protein coupled receptors.
A recent postmortem study has reported that there is a widespread upregulation of GABA(A) receptor binding activity throughout most subregions of the hippocampal formation of schizophrenic brain. The current study has been undertaken to determine whether the benzodiazepine (BZ) receptor, which is a component of the GABA(A) receptor complex, may also be upregulated in schizophrenics. Using a low-resolution film autoradiographic technique to localize [3H]flunitrazepam binding, the subregional and laminar distribution of specific BZ receptor binding was found to parallel that of the GABA(A) site, except in the area dentata where BZ binding was approximately 73% higher in the outer molecular layer. When BZ receptor binding was compared in the same normal control (n = 15) and schizophrenic (n = 8) cases in which the GABA(A) receptor was analyzed, there were very few differences noted between the two groups, except for small, though significant, increases in the stratum oriens of CA3 (30%), the subiculum (20-30%) and the presubiculum (15-20%) of the patient group. These latter increases overlapped with the subregions and laminae in schizophrenics showing the most marked increases of GABA(A) receptor binding. Using a high-resolution technique to evaluate specific BZ receptor binding on different neuronal subtypes, no difference was observed on either pyramidal or nonpyramidal neurons of sector CA3 where GABA(A) receptor activity had been found to be significantly increased on the latter neuronal subtype. The potential confounding effects of age, postmortem interval and exposure to either benzodiazepine or neuroleptic drugs do not account for the lack of marked differences in BZ receptor binding in the schizophrenic group. Taken together, the results of this study are consistent with the possibility that defective GABAergic integration in schizophrenia may be associated with an uncoupling in the regulation of the GABA(A) and BZ receptors.
Positron emission tomography (PET) was used to determine brain incorporation coefficients k* of [1-11C]arachidonate in isoflurane-anesthetized rhesus monkeys, as well as cerebral blood flow (CBF) using [15O]water. Intravenously injected [1-11C]arachidonate disappeared from plasma with a half-life of 1.1 min, whereas brain radioactivity reached a steady-state by 10 min. Mean values of k* were the same whether calculated by a single-time point method at 20 min after injection began, or by least-squares fitting of an equation for total brain radioactivity to data at all time points. k* equalled 1.1-1.2 x 10(-4) ml x s(-1) x g(-1) in gray matter and was unaffected by a 2.6-fold increase in CBF caused by hypercapnia. These results indicate that brain incorporation of [1-11C]arachidonate can be quantified in the primate using PET, and that incorporation is flow-independent.
Excitotoxins are valuable tools in neuroscience research as they can help us to discover the extent to which certain neurones are necessary for different types of behaviour. They have distinctive neurotoxic effects depending on where they are infused, and this study was conducted to delineate the neurotoxic profiles of excitotoxins in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDTg). Two 0.1 microl infusions of 0.1 M ibotenate, 0.1 M quinolinate, 0.04-0.1 M NMDA, or 0.05-0.015 M AMPA, were made unilaterally into the LDTg under either pentobarbitone or Avertin anaesthesia. The injection needle was oriented at an angle of 24 degrees from vertical in the mediolateral plane. After 23-27 days, sections through the mesopontine tegmentum were processed using standard histological procedures for NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry, tyrosine hydroxylase or 5-hydroxytryptamine immunohistochemistry, and Cresyl violet. Lesions were assessed in terms of the size of the damaged area (identified by reactive gliosis), the extent of cholinergic cell loss in the mesopontine tegmentum (by counting NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurones), and neuronal loss induced in the locus coeruleus and dorsal raphe nucleus. Ibotenate induced compact lesions in the LDTg (more than 80% cholinergic loss) and did little damage to the locus coeruleus and dorsal raphe nucleus. Quinolinate and low doses of AMPA and NMDA made very small lesions with less than 35% cholinergic loss, while at higher doses, AMPA and NMDA induced large areas of reactive gliosis but killed only a proportion of the cholinergic neurones. AMPA appeared to have a particular affinity for noradrenergic neurones in the locus coeruleus, with the 0.015 M dose injected into the LDTg typically destroying the majority of these neurones. The results are discussed in the context of what is known about the mechanisms of excitotoxins and the glutamate receptor profile of mesopontine neurones.
Intraplantar injection of dilute formalin evokes brief (Phase 1) and persistent (Phase 2) increases in primary afferent activity, pain behavior, and cardiovascular responses, and induces spinal cord Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI). Although previous studies demonstrated that the destruction of small diameter primary afferents with neonatal capsaicin treatment decrease formalin-evoked nociception, these studies only evaluated behavioral responses, and did not distinguish between Phase 1 and 2. To address these questions, we simultaneously evaluated formalin-evoked pain behavior (flinching of the afflicted paw), cardiovascular responses (heart rate and mean arterial pressure), and lumbar spinal cord Fos expression in control rats and in rats treated with capsaicin (100 mg/kg) one day postpartum. We found that neonatal capsaicin-treated rats, compared to controls, exhibited similar cardiovascular responses and slightly less flinching behavior during Phase 1. During Phase 2, however, capsaicin-treated rats exhibited 59% less flinching and 45% smaller heart rate responses. Also, in capsaicin-treated rats, we counted 59% fewer Fos-labeled neurons in the spinal cord. These results indicate that capsaicin-sensitive afferents contribute to formalin-evoked behavioral and cardiovascular responses and to spinal cord neuronal responses. The differential effect of neonatal capsaicin on nociception during Phase 1 and Phase 2 suggests that sensitization mechanisms during Phase 1 do not contribute to the magnitude of nociceptive responses during Phase 2.
Recently there has been an increase in the use of spectral methods for the analysis of experimental data. These analytical methods allow the study of interactions between simultaneously recorded signals and are particularly suited to the study of systems displaying rhythmic behaviour. A useful parameter in this context is the coherence function which provides a bounded measure of linear association between two signals. In this report we introduce two new techniques for dealing with an arbitrary number of independent coherence estimates. The first technique provides a test to compare the coherence estimates for statistically significant differences. The second allows the original coherence estimates to be combined, or 'pooled' into a single representative estimate. These two measures, taken together, provide a powerful tool for characterising and summarising the correlations within data sets. Applications of the techniques are illustrated by analysing the interactions between single motor unit discharges and finger tremor, and between pairs of motor unit discharges in human subjects.
We evaluated the behavioral recovery of mice with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced lesions using a pole test. T(LA) (locomotor activity time) 1, 2, and 3 days after intracerebroventricular 6-OHDA injection (T(LA)(1-3D)) was correlated significantly with the levels of dopamine (DA), dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), and homovanillic acid (HVA) in the striatum 7 days after the injection of 6-OHDA, but 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and serotonin (5-HT) had no correlation with T(LA)(1-3D). The mice whose T(LA)(1-3D) was more than the median showed about 60% depletion of striatal DA and increased DA turnover, and recovered from movement disorders 4 days after injection. These results show that presynaptic neuroadaptations and behavioral recovery exist in this animal model. Thus, the pole test appears to be useful in predicting the extent of the lesion to select a mouse in which the receptive fields of the dopaminergic cells are denervated.
Spinal cord injuries result in paralysis, because when damaged neurons die they are not replaced. Neurogenesis of electrophysiologically functional neurons occurred in spinal cord cultured from postnatal rats. In these cultures, the numbers of immunocytochemically identified neurons increased over time. Additionally, neurons identified immunocytochemically or electrophysiologically incorporated bromodeoxyuridine, confirming they had differentiated from mitotic cells in vitro. These findings suggest that postnatal spinal cord retains the capacity to generate functional neurons. The presence of neuronal precursor cells in postnatal spinal cord may offer new therapeutic approaches for restoration of function to individuals with spinal cord injuries.

Sympathetic neurons and other peripheral neurons exhibit a great deal of plasticity in their neuropeptide phenotype in adulthood. In this review, two phenotypes have been described in detail: that of normal sympathetic neurons and that of axotomized neurons. Two factors produced by nonneuronal cells, LIF and NGF, determine which of these phenotypes is expressed. Under normal conditions, the neurons receive NGF primarily, if not exclusively, from the target tissues they innervate. Prior to surgery, the nonneuronal cells within the ganglion and nerve tract express little, if any, LIF. This milieu favors the expression of NPY and suppresses the expression of VIP, galanin, and substance P (Fig. 6). After axotomy, however, this situation is reversed. The neuronal cell bodies are deprived of target-derived NGF and are exposed to LIF both within the ganglion and at the site of the injury (Fig 6). Both the removal of NGF and the exposure to LIF inhibit NPY expression, while promoting the expression of VIP and galanin. Expression of substance P after axotomy occurs primarily, if not entirely, because of the effects of LIF, with the removal of NGF playing no obvious role in the regulation of this peptide.
It has been well established that peptide precursors usually undergo limited proteolysis at pairs or single basic amino acids during their biosynthetic process. This posttranslational modification paradigm is common for numerous membrane-spanning and secreted proteins, neuropeptides, and peptide hormones of physiological significance, in which endoproteolytic cleavage is invariably essential for the accurate biosynthesis and full activity of the mature products. Establishment of an effective peptide profile is dependent on not only the presence of peptide precursor, but also the presence and the enzymatic specificities of cleavage enzymes. We have, therefore, characterized the spatial and temporal patterns of six subtilisin-like serine endoproteases known to be involved in proprotein processing, including furin, PC1, PC2, PC4, PC5, and PACE4, in rat prenatal development and related the results to the expression patterns of several peptide precursors. We have observed largely distinct and sometimes complementary expression patterns of individual PCs in various embryonic structures, suggesting PCs may be functionally distinct in processing different sets of proprotein substrates in development. From these studies, numerous tentative enzyme-substrate relationships in various embryonic structures have been proposed and should encourage more studies to test the in vitro cleavage potentialities of individual PCs toward these precursors. In the future, knowledge gained from these studies, when combined with insights gained from in vivo perturbation and genetic ablation studies, should lead to final comprehensive understanding of specific precursors cleaved by specific enzymes at specific cleavage sites in known spatial and temporal expression patterns during development.
An increase in the intracellular calcium ion concentration ([Ca2+]i) controls a diverse range of cell functions, including adhesion, motility, gene expression and proliferation. Calcium signalling patterns can occur as single transients, repetitive oscillations or sustained plateaux, but it is not known whether these patterns are responsible for encoding the specificity of cellular responses. We report here that the amplitude and duration of calcium signals in B lymphocytes controls differential activation of the pro-inflammatory transcriptional regulators NF-kappaB, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and NFAT. NF-kappaB and JNK are selectively activated by a large transient [Ca2+]i rise, whereas NFAT is activated by a low, sustained Ca2+ plateau. Differential activation results from differences in the Ca2+ sensitivities and kinetic behaviour of the three pathways. Our results show how downstream effectors can decode information contained in the amplitude and duration of Ca2+ signals, revealing a mechanism by which a multifunctional second messenger such as Ca2+ can achieve specificity in signalling to the nucleus.
In the developing nervous system, migrating cells and axons are guided to their targets by cues in the extracellular environment. The netrins are a family of phylogenetically conserved guidance cues that can function as diffusible attractants and repellents for different classes of cells and axons. In vertebrates, insects and nematodes, members of the DCC subfamily of the immunoglobulin superfamily have been implicated as receptors that are involved in migration towards netrin sources. The mechanisms that direct migration away from netrin sources (presumed repulsions) are less well understood. In Caenorhabditis elegans, the transmembrane protein UNC-5 (ref. 14) has been implicated in these responses, as loss of unc-5 function causes migration defects and ectopic expression of unc-5 in some neurons can redirect their axons away from a netrin source. Whether UNC-5 is a netrin receptor or simply an accessory to such a receptor has not, however, been defined. We now report the identification of two vertebrate homologues of UNC-5 which, with UNC-5 and the product of the mouse rostral cerebellar malformation gene (rcm), define a new subfamily of the immunoglobulin superfamily, and whose messenger RNAs show prominent expression in various classes of differentiating neurons. We provide evidence that these two UNC-5 homologues, as well as the rcm gene product, are netrin-binding proteins, supporting the hypothesis that UNC-5 and its relatives are netrin receptors.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and platelet-activating factor (PAF) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated encephalopathy. The effects of pentoxifylline on brain PAF levels were examined in mice infected with the LP-BM5 murine leukemia virus (MuLV). Seven weeks after viral inoculation, significant increases in serum TNF-alpha and brain PAF levels were observed. One week of treatment with pentoxifylline initiated 6 weeks postinfection significantly reduced both serum TNF-alpha and brain PAF levels. A significant positive correlation was observed between the levels of these substances (r = 0.62; P &lt; 0.01). This study demonstrates that pentoxifylline treatment was effective in decreasing the levels of TNF-alpha in the serum and PAF levels in the brain of mice infected with the LP-BM5 MuLV.
Previous studies have indicated that newly formed oligodendrocytes are dynamic cells whose production, survival, and differentiation depend upon axonal influences. This study has characterized the appearance and fate of newly formed oligodendrocytes in developing rat brain. Oligodendrocytes appear in predictable locations and radially extend DM-20-positive processes that cover 80-microm domains in the cortex and 40-microm domains in the corpus callosum. These premyelinating oligodendrocytes have one of two fates: they myelinate axons or degenerate. Between 7 and 21 d after birth, approximately 20% of premyelinating oligodendrocytes identified in the cerebral cortex were degenerating. Oligodendrocytes that ensheathed axons expressed and selectively targeted proteolipid protein to compact myelin and did not degenerate. These observations support the hypothesis that axonal influences affect oligodendrocyte survival, differentiation, and expression of proteolipid protein gene products.
Several studies have recently reported genetic linkage between markers located on the short arm of chromosome 6 and schizophrenia. Valid conclusions, however, are difficult to formulate because chromosomal markers that yielded positive results span a relatively large region of chromosome 6, and studies did not necessarily obtain consistent results with regard to the particular loci tested. Here, we report a meta-analysis of the results of linkage studies of schizophrenia that used chromosome 6p markers. After conducting a systematic search, nine different studies were selected for the analysis using defined criteria. Pooled P values were obtained for all common markers investigated and provided additional support for a major susceptibility locus for schizophrenia in this region. In addition, two markers located 2 cM apart, D6S274 and D6S285, provided the most significant results. These findings may help narrow the chromosomal region in the search for a major gene implicated in schizophrenia.
The present study examined academic skills in children and young adults with infantile nephropathic cystinosis. Cystinosis is a genetic metabolic disorder in which the amino acid cystine accumulates in various tissues and organs, including the kidney, cornea, thyroid, and brain. Individuals with cystinosis have normal intelligence but subtle visual processing impairments. Subjects were 19 children and young adults with cystinosis and 19 age-, sex-, and IQ-matched controls. All subjects had IQs within the normal range. On a test of academic achievement, mean standard scores for cystinosis and control subjects, respectively, were as follows: arithmetic 89.95 +/- 13.77 vs. 102.16 +/- 9.62; spelling 90.68 +/- 18.81 vs. 98.00 +/- 10.96; reading 97.47 +/- 15.59 vs. 98.58 +/- 12.41. Multivariate analysis of variance revealed a significant main effect for Group (P = .009); there was no main effect for Sex, nor was there a Group x Sex interaction. Univariate follow-up tests indicated that the cystinosis group performed significantly more poorly than did controls on the arithmetic subtest (P = .001) and that there was a trend (P = .085) toward poorer performance by the cystinosis group on the spelling subtest. Regression analyses revealed no evidence of a developmental lag or deterioration of function with age. The visual processing deficits previously identified in these individuals may underlie the academic difficulties observed here. It is possible that both visual processing and academic difficulties may reflect a common mechanism of selective cortical damage by this genetic defect.
A recent study reported a possible association between allele 1 of the dopamine D3 receptor gene and bipolar affective disorder using the haplotype relative risk approach. In attempt to replicate these findings, we used similar family-based methods, such as the Haplotype-Based Haplotype Relative Risk method and the Transmission Disequilibrium Test, in a sample of 44 bipolar probands from Sardinia with both parents available. Using the Bal I restriction enzyme site polymorphism of Lannfelt et al. (1992), no differences were found between transmitted and non-transmitted alleles and no evidence of linkage disequilibrium was observed.
Etorphine is an non-selective opioid receptor agonist with very potent analgesic effect. Low concentrations (&lt; nM) of most opioid receptor agonists decrease the K+ conductance (gK) in cultures of dissociated mouse dorsal root ganglion neurons regardless of the presence of Ba2+ However, low concentrations of etorphine, in contrast to all other opioids tested, decreased gK only in the absence of Ba2+. In the presence of Ba2+, pM-nM etorphine elicited dose-dependent increases, instead of decreases in gK. Higher concentrations of etorphine (&gt; nM) not only increased gK but, in addition, appreciably increased a delayed-onset inward Ca2+ current during pulsed depolarization regardless of the presence of Ba2+.
beta-Amyloid is the primary protein component of neuritic plaques, which are degenerative foci in brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The effects of this naturally occurring beta-amyloid on the cells of the central nervous system have not been completely understood. beta-Amyloid increases the vulnerability of cultured neurons to glutamate-induced excitotoxic damage. Because astrocytes play a key role in uptake of extracellular glutamate and glutamate uptake is ATP-dependent, we studied the effect of beta25-35 on glutamate and glucose uptake in cultured hippocampal astrocytes following 7 days of exposure to beta25-35. Astrocytic glutamate uptake was studied at 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, and 60 min following the addition of [3H]glutamate (5 nM) to the culture media, and astrocytic glucose uptake was assessed at 60 min after the addition of [14C]glucose (600 and 640 nM) to the media. Glutamate uptake by control astrocytes was time-dependent. Astrocytes exposed to beta25-35, however, showed significantly lower glutamate uptake at all sampling times. Similarly, [14C]glucose uptake by astrocytes was inhibited by beta25-35. When glucose uptake was blocked by phloretin (10 mM), astrocytic [3H]glutamate uptake was also blocked, suggesting that the inhibitory effect of beta-amyloid on glutamate uptake is caused by diminished glucose uptake. Thus, our present study suggests a possible link between two proposed mechanisms of pathogenesis of the Alzheimer's disease: glutamate neurotoxicity and global defect in cerebral energy metabolism.
The distribution of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), androgen receptor (AR), estrogen receptor (ER) and aromatase (ARO) was studied in the dorsal and ventral premammillary nuclei (PMd and PMv) of the newborn rat by immunohistochemistry. In the intact male pups, nNOS immunoreactivity (-IR) was present both in the PMd and the PMv, while AR-IR was detected only in the PMv. On the other hand, ER-IR and ARO-IR were scarcely encountered in the both PMd and PMv. By double immunostaining of nNOS and AR, all the nNOS-IR cells in the PMv were revealed to contain AR-IR. In the intact female pups, nNOS-IR was present in the both PMd and PMv, but neither ER-, nor ARO-IR were detected in the PM region. In the PMv of the intact female rat, no AR-IR was detected at 6 days of age, while it was detected as only a faint staining within 12 h after birth. When the male pups were castrated neonatally, no AR-IR was detected in the PMv. Subcutaneous injections of 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) induced strong AR-IR in the castrated male and the intact female pups. On the contrary, the intensity of nNOS-IR stayed unchanged among these animals. Neonatal androgen and nitric oxide has been considered important to brain development. Moreover, involvement of the PMv in aggressive and mating behavior of male animals has been reported. Together with the fact that the AR-IR and nNOS-IR were found in the same neurons in the PMv, involvement of this nucleus in masculinization of the brain by non-aromatizable androgen is postulated.
In order to examine the expression of the GABA(A) receptor alpha1 subunit during chick cortical development in vivo and in vitro, we have utilized a polyclonal antibody (RP4) directed against an alpha1(331-381) fusion protein. This antibody exhibits a high titer for precipitation of [3H]flunitrazepam binding sites in chick cortical extracts, no significant cross-reactivity with GABA(A) receptor beta2- or beta4-subunit fusion proteins, and a robust reaction with a single 51-kDa polypeptide on immunoblots of cortical membranes. This indicates monospecificity of the RP4 antiserum for the GABA(A) receptor alpha1 subunit. The alpha1-subunit antibody also showed strong immunocytochemical reactions with neurons in the embryonic mediodorsal cortex and Purkinje cells of the chick cerebellum. The ontogeny of the alpha1 subunit in chick cortex and in derived neuronal cultures was examined by quantitative Western blotting. The level of the alpha1 polypeptide increased from day 2 to day 6 in culture, acquiring 50% of the maximum expression at day 4. Expression of the cortical GABA(A) receptor alpha1 subunit increased in vivo from embryonic day 8 (E8) to day 7 post-hatching, reaching 50% of adult levels at E16. Levels of the corresponding alpha1-subunit mRNA, analyzed from E8 to E20 by quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), showed a corresponding incline. These findings correlated well with previous developmental studies of GABA(A) receptor ligand binding sites both in vivo and in vitro. The parallel increase of the alpha1 subunit transcript and polypeptide with [3H]flunitrazepam binding sites suggests that this subunit may be an important component of GABA(A) receptors early in cortical ontogeny. This was investigated further by quantitative immunoprecipitation. At saturation, the RP4 antiserum consistently precipitated 50-65% of the central [3H]flunitrazepam binding sites in the developing cortex from E12 through P7, despite a 5-fold increase in the binding level. The data suggest that during cortical development the fraction of GABA(A) receptors containing alpha1 subunits remains relatively constant. Furthermore, the alpha1 polypeptide appears to be a major component of GABA(A) receptor oligomers at all stages of cortical maturation.
The involvement of excitatory amino acid receptors in peripheral nociceptive processing was assessed in two separate experiments. In the first, one knee joint cavity of rats was injected with 0.1 ml of L-glutamate (0.001 mM; 0.1 mM; 1.0 mM), L-aspartate (0.001 mM; 0.1 mM: 1.0 mM), L-arginine (0.1 mM) or different combinations of these amino acids. The animals tested for paw withdrawal latency to radiant heat and withdrawal threshold to von Frey filaments at different time points. Combinations of glutamate/aspartate, aspartate/arginine or glutamate/aspartate/arginine when injected into the joint, in the absence of any other treatment, reduced the paw withdrawal latency and withdrawal threshold immediately after the injection and persisting up to 5 h indicating the development of hyperalgesia and allodynia. Subsequent intra-articular injection of either an NMDA or a non-NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist ((+/-)-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP7), 0.2 mM) or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), 0.1 mM) attenuated the thermal hyperalgesia and the mechanical allodynia produced by glutamate/aspartate/arginine. On the other hand, in a second experiment intra-articular injection of AP7, ketamine or CNQX reversed the hyperalgesia and allodynia produced by injection of a mixture of kaolin and carrageenan into the joint. These receptor antagonists, however, did not have an effect on the joint edema. These findings provide evidence for a potential role of peripheral NMDA and non-NMDA receptors in nociceptive transmission.
The 5-HT1A receptor agonist flesinoxan has anxiolytic activity and concurrently enhances plasma corticosterone levels in rats. After a second injection of flesinoxan 24 h later, the corticosterone response disappears, but not the anxiolytic effects. Male rats received two injections with either flesinoxan or vehicle within 24 h. Flesinoxan challenge enhanced Fos immunoreactivity in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the central amygdala, and the dorsolateral part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and plasma corticosterone levels in the vehicle-pretreated rats. Flesinoxan pretreatment resulted in an attenuated response of plasma corticosterone levels and Fos-positive neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, but not in the central amygdala and the bed nucleus after a flesinoxan challenge. The differential desensitization levels for both behaviour and neuroendocrine responses after flesinoxan treatment seem to correspond to different organization levels in the brain, like limbic system and hypothalamus.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) is one of the most potent inducer of the nuclear transcription factor kappaB (NF-kappaB). Activation of NF-kappaB is initiated by phosphorylation of the inhibitory subunit of the IkappaB-alpha-NF-kappaB complex. This leads to the dissociation of the complex and degradation of IkappaB-alpha. NF-kappaB is translocated into the nucleus. The sphingomyelin pathway is thought to mediate the TNF-alpha-induced activation of NF-kappaB by its second messenger ceramide. We have used the recently established acid sphingomyelinase-deficient mouse line (asmase-/- mice) to evaluate the role of acid sphingomyelinase in the TNF-alpha-induced signal transduction pathway. Here we present experimental evidence that acid sphingomyelinase is not involved in the TNF-alpha-induced activation of NF-kappaB. TNF-alpha treatment induced the dissociation and degradation of IkappaB-alpha and the nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB in embryonic fibroblasts derived from asmase-/- and wild type mice indiscriminately.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) occurs in adrenergic as well as in non-adrenergic nerves innervating the islets of Langerhans and inhibits glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. Recently we demonstrated that NPY is expressed within islet beta cells of the rat pancreas following treatment with dexamethasone in vivo. In this study we examined the cellular expression of NPY following dexamethasone treatment of the insulin-producing cell line RINm5F, which under control conditions does not express or release NPY. The cells were cultured with or without dexamethasone (100 nM) for 5 days. Over the 5-day culture period, dexamethasone time dependently induced an increased release of NPY with a concomitant decrease in the release of insulin. Northern blot and in situ hybridization revealed a corresponding time-dependent increase in the amount of NPY transcripts and in the number of cells labeled for NPY mRNA, whereas immunocytochemistry for NPY revealed only a few immunoreactive cells, indicating a rapid release of the formed peptide. Following 5 days of culture with dexamethasone, acute stimulation with D-glyceraldehyde (10 mM) or KCl (20 mM) Ca2+ dependently stimulated the release of insulin. In contrast neither stimulation with D-glyceraldehyde or KCl nor removal of extracellular Ca2+ affected the release of NPY. Furthermore the D-glyceraldehyde- and KCl-induced increase in cytosolic Ca2+, evident in control RINm5F cells, was impaired after dexamethasone treatment. We conclude that RINm5F cells show steroid-sensitive plasticity and express NPY after dexamethasone treatment concomitantly with a decreased insulin secretion and impaired increase in cytosolic Ca2+ upon depolarization with KCl or stimulation with D-glyceraldehyde. We also conclude that NPY and insulin secretion are regulated differently and suggest that the inability of the removal of extracellular Ca2+ to inhibit NPY secretion and the failure of D-glyceraldehyde and KCl to stimulate NPY secretion reflect a constitutive release of this peptide from the cells in contrast to the regulated release of insulin.
Post-Golgi vesicles budding from the trans-Golgi network (TGN) are involved in the vectorial transport and delivery of rhodopsin to photoreceptor rod outer segments (ROS). We report here that newly synthesized docosahexaenoyl (DHA) phospholipids are sequestered and cotransported by rhodopsin-bearing post-Golgi vesicles to ROS. Frog retinas were pulse-labeled with [35S]methionine/cysteine and [3H]DHA prior to ROS isolation and subcellular fractionation. After a 1-h pulse, relatively uniform [3H]DHA-lipid labeling (DPM/microg protein) was observed in all fractions enriched in post-Golgi vesicles, TGN, Golgi, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membranes. During the subsequent 2-h chase translocation of free [3H]DHA from ROS to the photoreceptor inner segment contributed to an additional overall increase in labeling of lipids. The specific activity (dpm/nmol DHA) in ER-enriched fraction was similar or higher than in other subcellular fractions after both the pulse and the chase, indicating that the bulk of [3H]DHA-lipids was synthesized in the ER. After the chase a 2-fold increase in labeling of lipids in the ER and Golgi and a 2.6-fold in lighter TGN-enriched fractions was observed. The highest labeling was in the post-Golgi vesicle fraction (4-fold increase), with [3H]DHA-phosphatidylcholine and [3H]DHA-phosphatidylethanolamine showing the greatest increase. At the same time, newly synthesized [35S]rhodopsin shifted from the ER and Golgi toward TGN and post-Golgi fractions. Therefore, sequestration and association of [35S]rhodopsin and [3H]DHA-lipids in a TGN membrane domain occurs prior to their exit and subsequent vectorial cotransport on post-Golgi vesicles to ROS. Labeling of ROS lipids was very low, with phosphatidylinositol and diacylglycerols displaying the highest labeling. This indicates that other mechanisms by-passing Golgi, i.e. facilitated by lipid carrier proteins, may also contribute to molecular replacement of disc membrane DHA-phospholipids, particularly phosphatidylinositol.
The transforming activity of artificially membrane-targeted Raf1 suggests that Ras-mediated recruitment of Raf1 to the plasma membrane is an important step in Raf1 activation. Cellular Ras is concentrated in the caveolae, a microdomain of the plasma membrane that is highly enriched in caveolin, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins, and signal transduction molecules. Growth factor stimulation recruits Raf1 to this membrane domain. Whether Ras simply promotes Raf1 association with caveolae membranes or also modulates subsequent activation events is presently unclear. We have identified a ras variant, ras12V,37G, that does not interact with Raf1 but does interact with a mutant raf1, raf1(257L). To examine the role of Ras in the activation of membrane-bound Raf1, raf1CAAX, and raf1(257L)CAAX, membrane-targeted variants of Raf1 and raf1(257L), respectively, were expressed in fibroblasts with or without coexpression of ras12V, 37G. Cell fractionation localized both raf1CAAX and raf1(257L)CAAX to caveolae membranes independent of ras12V,37G expression; however, coexpression of ras12V,37G enhanced the activation of raf(257L)CAAX, but not raf1CAAX, as monitored by induction of cellular transformation, increased Raf kinase activity, and induction of activated MAP kinase. These results suggest that the Ras/Raf1 interaction plays a role in Raf1 activation that is distinct from membrane recruitment.
Cultured pituicytes (neurohypophysial astrocytes) are normally flat amorphous cells when incubated (90 min) in a HEPES balanced salt solution (HBSS) but become stellate when incubated in HBSS supplemented with forskolin. This stellation process is attenuated by serum (0.5% vol/vol). The experiments described here were designed to determine whether serum attenuates stellation by modulation of the intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) concentration or some other mechanism. It was observed that the effect of serum on forskolin-induced stellation was not affected by pertussis toxin (100 ng/ml) and that serum also inhibited stellation induced by the phosphodiesterase inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX; 100 microM). Further, serum inhibited stellation induced by the membrane permeable cAMP analog 8-bromo cAMP (150 microM). These results indicate that although an increase of intracellular cAMP concentration is necessary for pituicyte stellation, an increase of intracellular cAMP concentration may be decoupled from stellation.
Previous studies have shown that in Alzheimer's disease post-mortem brain there are disruptions of both beta1-adrenoceptor-G-protein coupling and G-protein stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity. Decreased beta-adrenoceptor stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity has also been shown in Alzheimer's disease primary skin fibroblasts. In the present study, we determined the regulation of adenylyl cyclase in Alzheimer's disease patients using an easily accessible tissue source, namely peripheral blood lymphocytes. beta-Adrenoceptor- and forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activities were investigated in lymphocytes from 12 Alzheimer's disease and 12 carefully matched and selected control subjects. No significant differences were found in basal or forskolin-stimulated enzyme activities between Alzheimer's disease and control lymphocytes. In contrast, isoprenaline-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activities were significantly lower in the Alzheimer's disease groups, as compared to controls. These results indicate that there is a widespread disruption of beta-adrenoceptor-G-protein-enzyme coupling in different tissues from Alzheimer's disease patients, and that adenylyl cyclase disturbances previously reported in Alzheimer's disease brain do not occur as a consequence of disease pathology or of terminal illness.
The MMPI performance of two sub-groups of chronic insomniac patients was compared to determine if patients with psychologically based insomnia (Group 1) differed from those with medically based insomnia (Group 2). This was done to establish whether etiology of insomnia had an impact on the psychological picture. We postulated that Group 1 would show a higher overall incidence of psychopathology, particularly on scales suggesting internalization of distress. Surprisingly, the results revealed no significant differences between the groups with respect to these questions. When the two diagnostic groups were combined, the sample as a whole was characterized by a high overall prevalence of psychopathology. As many as 79.3% of the MMPI records contained one or more clinical scales in the pathological range. Depression was a prominent feature. Our findings emphasize the importance of not assuming that a patient with an organically-based insomnia (e.g. due to sleep apnea, etc.) is free of psychological disturbance. This, in turn, underscores the need for a psychological evaluation as a routine part of the diagnostic work-up of all insomniac patients, regardless of the etiology of their disorder.
Immunoglobulin G viral antibodies for herpes simplex virus type 1, varicella zoster virus, cytomegalovirus, measles, and mumps were studied in 76 subjects with obsessive-compulsive disorder and compared with a control population. There was a significantly higher titer for herpes simplex virus type 1 antibodies. Sera: cerebrospinal fluid ratios were suggestive of intrathecal synthesis.
Single amino acid polymorphism at residue 37 of the HLA-DR beta chain (DR beta 37) between DRB1*0406 and 0403 markedly influences susceptibility to the insulin autoimmune syndrome. We investigated the effects of DR beta 37 polymorphism regarding recognition of nonself peptides by a T-cell clone, YN5-32, specific to a streptococcal peptide (M12p54-68) presented by the DRB1*0406 molecule. YN5-32 responded better to M12p54-68 presented by allogeneic DRB1*0403 with a single Tyr-substitution at DR beta 37-Ser of the DRB1*0406 molecule. One hundred and fifty-four peptides carrying single residue substitutions at each of the core residues 57-65 of M12p54-68, were tested for full agonistic and TCR antagonistic activities. Forty-six peptides showed full agonism, 34 analogues exhibited TCR antagonism, and 45 analogues exhibited neither full agonism nor TCR antagonism, irrespective of the presenting molecules (DRB1*0406 or 0403). On the other hand, 29 analogue peptides substituted at each of residues 57-63 of M12p54-68 were recognized differently by YN5-32, depending on the presenting molecules. These observations indicate that 1) single amino acid polymorphism (Ser-Tyr) at the DR beta 37 residue induced a conformational change distinguished by TCR in some but not all peptides; and 2) these conformational changes were observed even in analogue peptides carrying single residue substitutions at residues far from a putative DR beta 37 contact site. These findings provide further evidence for altered human T-cell responses induced by TCR ligands with minor modifications.
Normal human aging is associated with selective changes in cognition that are attributable, in part, to dysfunction of hippocampal pathways. Rodents also exhibit age-dependent hippocampal dysfunction that results in spatial memory deficits and a correlated reduction in the maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP). Although suprathreshold stimulus protocols result in normal LTP induction in aged rats, the ability to sustain this increase in synaptic efficacy is reduced in the old animals. The maintenance phase of LTP is known to be dependent on rapid, transcriptional events, and recent studies have identified signal transduction mechanisms that link glutamate-induced responses at the synapse with transcriptional responses at the nucleus. To examine the integrity of these signaling pathways in aged hippocampus, we monitored the induction of a panel of immediate early genes (IEGs) that are known to be transcriptionally activated after LTP-inducing stimuli, using a &quot;reverse Northern&quot; strategy. Here we report that a broad representation of IEGs are similarly induced in awake, behaving young adult and aged, memory-impaired rats. This indicates a general preservation of these presumptive signaling pathways during the aging process. Induced levels of c-fos mRNA, however, are significantly higher in the aged animals. These observations suggest that age-dependent hippocampal dysfunction may be associated with a selective change in the dynamic activity of signaling pathways upstream of c-fos, possibly involving calcium regulation.
The basic electrical rhythmicity of the olivocerebellar system was investigated in vivo using multiple electrode recordings of Purkinje cell (PC) complex spike (CS) activity. CSs demonstrate a 10 Hz rhythmicity, thought to result from the interaction of Ca2+ and Ca2+-dependent K+ conductances present in inferior olivary (IO) neurons. To assess the roles of different K+ channels in generating this rhythmicity, intraolivary microinjections of charybdotoxin (CTX) and apamin were used. Both K+ channel blockers increased average CS spike-firing rates. However, apamin produced a tonic increase in firing with a decrement in the CS rhythmicity. In contrast, after CTX administration, highly rhythmic CS discharges were interleaved with silent periods, suggesting that apamin- and CTX-sensitive K+ channels have distinct rhythmogenic roles in IO neurons. CTX-sensitive channels seem to be functionally coupled to low threshold Ca2+ channels, whereas the apamin-sensitive channels relate to high threshold Ca2+ channels. Blocking intraolivary GABAA receptors increases IO excitability and the spatial distribution of synchronized CS activity while disrupting its rostrocaudal banding pattern (). The present experiments show that K+ channel blockers increase IO excitability without causing widespread synchronization of CS activity. Thus, changes in the IO excitability have relatively little effect in determining the spatial organization of CS synchrony. In contrast, the degree of CS rhythmicity seemed to influence the patterns of CS synchrony. Thus, after CTX, increased CS rhythmicity was associated with increased intraband synchrony and decreased interband synchrony, whereas apamin had the opposite effects on intra- and interband synchronization.
Adult sensory neurons differ chemically, morphologically, and functionally, but the factors that generate their diversity remain unclear. For example, neuropeptides are generally found in small neurons, whereas abundant neurofilament is common in large neurons. Neurons containing the neuropeptides calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) or substance P were quantified using immunohistochemistry in rat lumbar dorsal root ganglion (DRG) at times before and after sensory neurons contact central and peripheral targets in vivo. No neurons in the newly formed DRG expressed neuropeptide or neuropeptide mRNA, but neuropeptides were detectable about the time that axons connect with peripheral targets. To determine the requirement for target in neuropeptide regulation, embryonic DRG neurons were isolated at times before central and peripheral connections had formed, placed in culture, and immunocytochemically assayed for CGRP and substance P. Cultured neurons expressed neuropeptides with a time course and in proportions similar to those in vivo. Thus, some neurons in the embryonic DRG seem to be intrinsically specified to later express CGRP and substance P. The percentage of CGRP-immunoreactive neurons was not changed by cell density, non-neuronal cells, neurotrophins in addition to nerve growth factor (NGF), or antibody inactivation of neurotrophin-3 in the presence of NGF. To test the role of extrinsic cues on CGRP expression, DRG neurons were co-cultured with potential target tissues. Co-culture with a rat epidermal or smooth muscle cell line increased the proportion of CGRP-containing neurons, whereas primary skeletal muscle and 3T3 cells had no effects. Thus, multiple appropriate sensory neuron phenotypes arise in a regulated fashion in cultured neurons isolated before target connections have formed, and some candidate target tissues can modulate that intrinsic expression pattern.
Several subtypes of Ca2+ channel support the release of glutamate at excitatory synapses. We investigated the pattern of colocalization of these subtypes on presynaptic terminals in hippocampal cultures. N-type (conotoxin GVIA-sensitive) or P/Q-type (agatoxin IVA-sensitive) Ca2+ channels were blocked selectively, and the reduction in transmitter release probability (Pr) was measured with MK-801. The antagonists completely blocked release at some terminals, reduced Pr at others, and failed to affect the remainder. In contrast, nonselective reduction of presynaptic Ca2+ influx by adding Cd2+ or lowering external Ca2+ reduced Pr uniformly at all terminals. We conclude from these results that the mixture of N-type and P/Q-type channels varies markedly between terminals on the same afferent. The distribution of Ca2+ channel subtypes was the same for high and low Pr terminals. Given that Ca2+ channel subtypes are affected differentially by neuromodulators, these findings lead to the possibility of terminal-specific modulation of synaptic function.
Chemical signaling by dopamine (DA) and L-norepinephrine (L-NE) at synapses is terminated by uptake via specialized presynaptic transport proteins encoded by the DA transporter (DAT) and L-NE transporter (NET) genes, respectively. In some vertebrate neurons, particularly the sympathetic neurons of amphibians, L-NE is converted to L-epinephrine (L-Epi, adrenaline) and released as the primary neurotransmitter. Although evidence exists for a molecularly distinct L-Epi transporter (ET) in the vertebrate brain and peripheral nervous system, a transporter specialized for extracellular L-Epi clearance has yet to be identified. To pursue this issue, we cloned transporter cDNAs from bullfrog (Rana catesbiana) paravertebral sympathetic ganglia and characterized functional properties via heterologous expression in non-neuronal cells. A cDNA of 2514 bp (fET) was identified for which the cognate 3.1 kb mRNA is highly enriched in frog sympathetic ganglia. Sequence analysis of the fET cDNA reveals an open reading frame coding for a protein of 630 amino acids. Inferred fET protein sequence bears 75, 66, and 48% amino acid identity with human NET, DAT, and the 5-hydroxytryptamine transporter (SERT), respectively. Transfection of fET confers Na+- and Cl--dependent catecholamine uptake in HeLa cells. Uptake of [3H]-L-NE by fET is inhibited by catecholamines in a stereospecific manner. L-Epi and DA inhibit fET-mediated [3H]-L-NE uptake more potently than they inhibit [3H]-L-NE uptake by human NET (hNET), whereas L-NE exhibits equivalent potency between the two carriers. Moreover, fET exhibits a greater maximal velocity (Vmax) for the terminal products of catecholamine biosynthesis (L-Epi &gt; L-NE &gt; DA), unlike hNET, in which a Vmax rank order of L-NE &gt; DA &gt; L-Epi is observed. fET-mediated transport of catecholamines is sensitive to cocaine and tricyclic antidepressants, with antagonist potencies significantly correlated with hNET inhibitor sensitivity. Amino acid conservation and divergence of fET with mammalian catecholamine transporters help define residues likely to be involved in catecholamine recognition and translocation as well as blockade by selective reuptake inhibitors.
Developmental studies have shown that both neurons and glia arise from the subventricular zone (SVZ) but there have been no clonal analyses to determine whether a single progenitor can produce both. Therefore, we used replication deficient retroviral vectors to analyze the clonal progeny of single rat SVZ cells that were maintained in culture media permissive or non-permissive for neuronal differentiation. When maintained in medium supplemented with 5% fetal bovine serum, all surviving progenitors generated glial cell clones. Within these glial clones we often observed both type 1 astrocytes and O-2A lineage cells. When SVZ cells were maintained in medium permissive for neurogenesis approximately 50% of the total clones contained at least one antigenically defined neuron. Of those clones that contained neurons, 60% contained neurons and glia. The other 50% of the total clones were either comprised of only astrocytes, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, or were unidentifiable. Since the culture environment permitted multilineage clone formation, yet many homogeneous neuronal or astrocytic clones were obtained, some progenitors must become developmentally restricted while they are in the germinal zone. Therefore, we conclude that the perinatal SVZ is a mosaic of multipotential, bipotential, and lineage restricted precursors, and that the lack of postnatal neocortical neurogenesis is not due to the absence of potential neuroblasts.
1. In the guinea-pig, a unilateral labyrinthectomy induces postural disturbances and an ocular nystagmus which abate or disappear over time. These behavioural changes are accompanied by an initial collapse and a subsequent restoration of the spontaneous activity in the neurones of the ipsilateral vestibular nuclei. Recently, it has been shown that the vestibular neuronal activity remained collapsed over at least 10 h whereas its restoration was complete 1 week after the lesion. The aims of this study were to determine when restoration of spontaneous activity in the partially deafferented vestibular neurones started and to compare the time courses of the behavioural and neuronal recoveries in guinea-pigs that had undergone a unilateral labyrinthectomy. 2. Neuronal discharge measurements were made using chronic extracellular recording of single unit activity. After a left labyrinthectomy, electrodes, were placed on the site of the destroyed labyrinth to enable stimulation of the left vestibular nerve. Behavioural measurements included chronic recording of eye movements by the scleral search coli technique. After a left labyrinthectomy, lateral deviation of the head, twisting of the head, and eye velocity of the slow phases of the nystagmus were measured. 3. The neuronal activity of the rostral part of the vestibular nuclear complex on the lesioned side was recorded in alert guinea-pigs over 4 h recording sessions between 12 and 72 h after the lesion. 4. The criterion used to select vestibular neurones for analysis was their recruitment by an electric shock on the vestibular nerve. In addition, in order to explore a uniform population, we focused on neurones recruited at monosynaptic latencies (0.85-1.15 ms). 5. For each recording period, the mean resting rate was calculated animal by animal and the grand mean of these individual resting rate means was calculated. Previously, a decline in the grand mean resting rate from 35.8 +/- 6.0 spikes s-1 (control state) to 7.1 +/- 4.2 spikes s-1 during the first 4 h after labyrinthectomy has been shown. In the present study, the first sign of recovery was observed during the 12-16 h recording period when the resting rate grand mean increased to 16.3 +/- 3.9 spikes s-1. This grand mean activity did not change significantly during the following 12 h. Thereafter, restoration of neuronal activity improved and was complete 1 week after the lesion. 6. Although the abatement of the vestibular symptoms roughly paralleled the restoration of neuronal activity in the vestibular nuclei, some discrepancies between the time courses of both phenomena emerged. An important step in postural recovery (the animals managed to stand up) and a major part of the abatement of the nystagmus occurred before the recovery of vestibular neuronal activity. In addition, lateral deviation of the head disappeared while restoration of the neuronal activity was incomplete, but significant head twisting was still evident when vestibular resting rates had recovered completely. 7. We conclude that restoration of neuronal activity in the ipsilateral vestibular nuclei starts 12 h after the lesion and that restoration of neuronal activity in the ipsilateral vestibular nuclei is not the only mechanism underlying behavioural vestibular compensation.

ID elements are short interspersed elements (SINEs) found in high copy number in many rodent genomes. BC1 RNA, an ID-related transcript, is derived from the single copy BC1 RNA gene. The BC1 RNA gene has been shown to be a master gene for ID element amplification in rodent genomes. ID elements are dispersed through a process termed retroposition. The retroposition process involves a number of potential regulatory steps. These regulatory steps may include transcription in the appropriate tissue, transcript stability, priming of the RNA transcript for reverse transcription and integration. This study focuses on priming of the RNA transcript for reverse transcription. BC1 RNA gene transcripts are shown to be able to prime their own reverse transcription in an efficient intramolecular and site-specific fashion. This self-priming ability is a consequence of the secondary structure of the 3'-unique region. The observation that a gene actively amplified throughout rodent evolution makes a RNA capable of efficient self-primed reverse transcription strongly suggests that self-priming is at least one feature establishing the BC1 RNA gene as a master gene for amplification of ID elements.
The expression of short- and long-term synaptic plasticity varies strongly across pathways in the central nervous system. Differences in the properties of transmitter release may underlie some of this variability. Here we compared the short-term plasticity displayed by a neocortical and a hippocampal pathway in vitro, and observed dramatic differences. Conditions known to increase transmitter release probability were more effective in hippocampus, while conditions known to decrease release probability were similarly effective in both pathways. The effects of the irreversible open-channel blocker of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, MK-801, implied that synapses in the neocortical pathway have a relatively high probability of transmitter release as compared with synapses in the hippocampal pathway. Differences in release probability may explain the pathway-specific variance in short- and long-term synaptic plasticity.
Recent studies have sought to identify the genes involved in excitotoxic neurodegeneration. Here we report that certain strains of mice, including strains that are used for gene targeting studies, do not exhibit excitotoxic cell death after kainic acid seizures. Kainic acid produced excitotoxic cell death in the CA3 and CA1 subfields of the hippocampus in 129/SvEMS and FVB/N mice, in the same pattern as described in rats. C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice exhibited excitotoxic cell death only at very high doses of kainate, and then only in a very restricted area, although they exhibited comparable seizures. Hybrids of 129/SvEMS x C57BL/6 mice created using embryonic stem cells from 129/SvEMS mice also did not exhibit excitotoxic cell death. These results demonstrate that C57BL/6 and BALB/c strains carry gene(s) that convey protection from glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. This differential susceptibility to excitotoxicity represents a potential complication for gene targeting studies.
beta-amyloid protein (A beta) formation was reconstituted in permeabilized neuroblastoma cells expressing human Alzheimer beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta APP) harboring the Swedish double mutation associated with familial early-onset Alzheimer disease. Permeabilized cells were prepared following metabolic labeling and incubation at 20 degrees C, a temperature that allows beta APP to accumulate in the trans-Golgi network (TGN) without concomitant A beta formation. Subsequent incubation at 37 degrees C led to the generation of A beta. A beta production in the TGN persisted even under conditions in which formation of nascent post-TGN vesicles was inhibited by addition of guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate), a nonhydrolyzable GTP analogue, or by omission of cytosol. These and other results indicate that vesicle budding and trafficking may not be required for proteolytic metabolism of beta APP to A beta, a process that includes &quot;gamma-secretase&quot; cleavage within the beta APP transmembrane domain.
The catalytic subunit of PP-1 (PP-1C) is potently inhibited (IC50, approximately 1 nM) by DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, M(r) 32,000), inhibitor-1, and inhibitor-2. The NH2-terminal 50 amino acid residues of DARPP-32 and inhibitor-1 are similar, and phosphorylation of a common threonine residue (Thr-34/Thr-35) is necessary for inhibition of PP-1C. We have characterized further the interaction between DARPP-32 and PP-1C. Using synthetic peptides derived from the NH2-terminal region of DARPP-32, residues 6-11, RKKIQF, have been shown to be required for inhibition of PP-1C. Peptides containing this motif were able to antagonize the inhibition of PP-1C by phospho-DARPP-32 and phosphoinhibitor-1. The inhibition of PP-1C by inhibitor-2, but not by okadaic acid, microcystin, or calyculin A, was also attentuated by these antagonist peptides. These results together with results from other studies support a model in which two subdomains of phospho-DARPP-32 interact with PP-1C. The region encompassing phospho-Thr-34 appears to interact with the active site of the enzyme blocking enzyme activity. The region encompassing the RKKIQF motif binds to a domain of PP-1C removed from the active site. Amino acid sequence analysis indicates that basic and hydrophobic features of the RKKIQF motif are conserved in the binding domains of certain PP-1C targeting proteins, suggesting that interaction of inhibitor proteins and targeting proteins may be mutually exclusive.
Site-directed mutagenesis of selected residues of mammalian protein phosphatase 1 (PP-1) has been carried out to further define the mechanism of catalysis, activation by divalent cations, and inhibition by toxins and inhibitory proteins. Mutation of active site residues predicted to bind metals (N124D and H248N) resulted in a large loss of enzyme activity and decreased affinity for metal ions; mutation of residues predicted to bind phosphosubstrate (R96A or R221S) led to a large loss of enzyme activity; and mutation of active site residues (D95A and D208A) resulted in a large loss of enzyme activity. Mutants N124D, H248N, R96A, and R221S exhibited large decreases in sensitivity to the toxins calyculin A, okadaic acid, and microcystin and to thiophospho-DARPP-32. Mutation of Y272 (Y272F) had little effect on activity but resulted in a large decrease in sensitivity to okadaic acid and calyculin A. Mutant D208A exhibited a decrease in sensitivity to okadaic acid and calyculin A, but, paradoxically, the sensitivity to inhibition by thiophospho-DARPP-32 was increased. Mutation of acidic groove residues (E256R, E275R, E252A:D253A, and E252A:D253A:E256R) exhibited little change in enzyme activity and no change in sensitivity to toxins, but increased sensitivity to thiophospho-DARPP-32. These results suggest that toxins and phospho-DARPP-32 interact at the active site of PP-1 in a similar fashion despite their differences in structure. In addition, acidic groove residues appear to influence the interaction of the phosphoinhibitor with the active site of PP-1.

We have examined the age-related reordering of optic axons as they pass through the chiasmatic region in fetal ferrets. Proportions of young and old optic axons were determined from electron micrographs taken sequentially through the prechiasmatic nerve, chiasm, and tract. This &quot;chronotopic&quot; reordering of axons was shown to emerge gradually, beginning rostral to the fusion of the two optic nerves, but continuing to develop caudal to the chiasmatic midline. Segregation of young from old optic axons was most pronounced within the optic tract. We then compared the emergence of this fiber reorganization to the distribution of cell adhesion and extracellular matrix molecules and to the glial architecture within the pathway. Using immunohistochemistry, the distributions of the cell adhesion molecules L1, NCAM, and TAG-1 and the extracellular matrix molecules laminin-1 and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) were determined. Among these, only the distribution of CSPGs was observed to change in a manner that complemented the segregation of young from old optic axons. CSPGs were densest in the deeper parts of the optic tract, coincident with radial glial fibers that turn to course within the region of the oldest optic axons. Both the glial architecture and the CSPG distribution form as a consequence of the invasion of the first optic axons, shown by the developmental sequence of each, and by the fact that these glial and molecular features fail to form in the absence of optic axons. The data suggest a model in which the gradient of CSPGs across the depth of the tract contributes to the formation of the chronotopic fiber reordering by providing a relatively unfavorable environment for subsequent axonal growth. The CSPGs may do so by interfering with adhesion molecules on optic axons that normally promote elongation.
Activity-dependent synaptic plasticity was examined in vivo in two cortical areas of the adult monkey visual system, the primary visual and inferotemporal cortex, the first and late cortical stages essential for object recognition. Discontinuous high-frequency electrical stimulation of intrinsic horizontal connections in layer 2/3 caused contrasting forms of synaptic plasticity in the two areas. In the inferotemporal cortex, long-term potentiation of extracellular field potentials in layer 2/3 was induced, whereas in the same pathway of V1, identical stimulation protocol elicited long-term depression. The results indicate that susceptibility to synaptic plasticity varies among cortical areas in the monkey brain.
Although alterations in growth factor mRNA occur during neuronal insults, little is known about the long-term effects of neuronal insults on growth factor expression. We have examined the effects of prolonged post-ictal times on the expression of Brain-derivered nerve factor (BDNF) and Neurotrophin 3 (NT3) following Kainic acid (KA)-induced seizures. In situ hybridization was performed on male Sprague-Dawley rats sacrificed 1-2 weeks following intracranial ventricular KA injections. BDNF mRNA increased bilaterally 1 and 2 weeks after injections, whereas NT3 mRNA decreased contralaterally 1 week and bilaterally 2 weeks post-injection. These observations provide evidence that alterations in growth factor mRNA expression occur even after prolonged post-ictal recovery suggesting a possible role for growth factors in recovery and continued maintenance of surviving neurons within limbic seizure foci.
We investigated the hypothesis that cell membrane function is abnormal in brains of subjects with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) using proton-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy of human brain extracts. The total amount of choline-containing compounds was significantly higher (about three times) than in normal controls and patients with other myopathies, while N-acetyl-L-aspartic acid and creatine were within the normal range. These findings indicate that abnormal cell membrane function may be correlated with the abnormal dystrophin or lack of dystrophin in the brain of patients with DMD.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of sodium butyrate on calcium mobilization. Histamine was found to stimulate a dose-dependent increase in intracellular calcium concentrations ([Ca2+]i) through H1 receptors, but this effect was attenuated in C6 cells pretreated with 1-5 mM sodium butyrate. Evidence is provided that release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores is decreased in a dose-dependent manner. Experiments with BAPTA that show lower levels of [Ca2+]i in cells pretreated with higher concentrations of sodium butyrate suggest that sodium butyrate also decreases Ca2+ influx. These results suggest that changes in Ca2+ mobilization are at least partially responsible for sodium butylate-induced C6 cell differentiation.

We have previously reported that Schwann cells cultured from rat sciatic nerves express 5-HT2A receptors. In this study we extend these in vitro observations to Schwann cells in situ. Since the serotonin (5-HT) levels in rat sciatic nerve are elevated following nerve injury, we examined Schwann cells in healthy and injured adult rat sciatic nerves. These nerves were double-labeled immunohistochemically with an anti-idiotypic antibody that recognizes 5-HT1B, 5-HT2A, and 5-HT2C receptors and an antibody against S100beta, a Schwann cell marker. 5-HT receptor labeling was observed in Schwann cells of healthy and regenerating nerves, but not of degenerating nerves, while S100beta labeling was observed in the Schwann cells of all nerves examined. The 5-HT receptor immunolabeling was cytoplasmic, as with the cultured Schwann cells. While staining was observed at the nodes of Ranvier, it was not restricted to these locations. These results suggest that myelinating rat Schwann cells normally express 5-HT receptors in vivo, and that receptor expression is reduced during times when 5-HT levels are elevated in the sciatic endoneurium.
Polyamines play critical roles during the development of brain neurons. In the present study we examined the effects of polyamines on neuronal apoptotic death. Rat cerebellar granule neurons were cultured in the presence of a depolarizing concentration of KCl (25 mM) in the medium. Apoptotic neuronal death was induced by changing the medium to that containing 5.6 mM KCl without serum. Spermine as well as spermidine and putrescine prevented cell death in a concentration-dependent manner with the order of potency being spermine &gt; spermidine &gt; putrescine. The effect of spermine was partially blocked by several NMDA-type glutamate receptor antagonists including (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK-801). MK-801-sensitive neuroprotection by spermine depended on cell density. Activation of CPP32 (caspase-3/Yama/apopain)-like proteolytic activity, a key mediator of apoptosis, precedes neuronal death, and polyamines prevented an increase in this activity. These results demonstrate that polyamines protect neurons from apoptotic cell death through both NMDA receptor-dependent and -independent mechanisms, acting upstream from the activation of CPP32-like protease(s).
The present study demonstrates that stereoselective binding sites for anandamide, a naturally occurring cannabinoid substance, can be found in leech (Theromyzon tessulatum and Hirudo medicinalis) central nervous system. The anandamide binding site is monophasic and of high affinity exhibiting a Kd of approximately 32 nM with a Bmax of 550 fmol/mg protein in both animals. These sites are highly select as demonstrated by the inability of other types of signaling molecules to displace [3H]anandamide. Furthermore, this binding site is coupled to nitric oxide release. A deduced amino acid sequence (153 residues) analysis from a 480 pb amplified RT-PCR fragment cDNA exhibits a 49.3% and 47.2% sequence identity with human and rat cannabinoid receptors (CB1R), respectively. Thus, the leech cannabinoid receptor may be a G-protein coupled receptor with seven transmembrane domains as in CB1R. Moreover, this sequence exhibits highly conserved regions, particularly in the putative transmembrane domains 1 and 2. The presence of a cannabinoid receptor in these organisms indicates that this signaling system has been conserved during evolution.
The present study describes a rapid and sensitive dot-blot assay approach for determining the degree of covalent modification of amino groups in proteins. N-hydroxy-succinimide ester of acetic acid was used for irreversible, covalent modification of proteins whose reactive primary amino groups were reversibly blocked (or protected) with 2,3-dimethyl-maleic anhydride prior to processing. Immobilon AV affinity membrane was utilized for differential covalent attachment of the proteins to the activated ester on the membrane matrix, primarily through their protected epsilon-amino group of lysins. The efficacy of the method was demonstrated for a murine monoclonal antibody and for two human plasma proteins. The degree of covalent modification of proteins at their amino groups as estimated by the proposed method is compared with that obtained by using the conventional trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS) method. Several advantages of the present method over the TNBS method are emphasized. The new method, which requires only nanograms of protein, is shown to be more sensitive than the TNBS method where the limit of detection is in the milligram range. The proposed assay is very specific and facile, and the advantage of small sample size requirement (1 microliter) provides sequential detection of multiple samples facilitating much higher precision in data obtained than that of the TNBS assay.
We examined the effects of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) to c-fos mRNA on hippocampal partial seizures in rats. As control, sense and scrambled control ODNs were also tested. Each ODN (10 nmol/10 microliters) was injected into the lateral ventricles for 2 consecutive days. Fifteen hours after the last injection, electrical stimulation was delivered to assess the effects on after discharge threshold and afterdischarge duration (ADD). One hour after seizures, c-Fos and Jun-B immunocytochemistries were performed. Antisense ODNs significantly decreased ADD and control ODNs failed to change any parameters. In the antisense ODNs group, c-Fos expression occurred ipsilateral to the stimulation site in dentate granule cells, while Jun-B expression was seen bilaterally. In the majority of control ODNs animals, c-Fos and Jun-B expression in dentate granule cells occurred bilaterally. These findings suggest that the injection of antisense ODNs selectively inhibit contralateral c-Fos expression and that c-fos plays a key role in hippocampal excitability and seizure expression during hippocampal partial seizures.
The participation of medial temporal-lobe structures in memory performance was examined by functional magnetic resonance imaging of local blood oxygenation level-dependent signals. Signals were measured during encoding into memory complex scenes or line drawings and during retrieval from memory of previously studied line drawings or words. Encoding tasks yielded increased signals for unfamiliar information in a posterior medial-temporal region that were focused in the parahippocampal cortex. Retrieval tasks yielded increased signals for successfully remembered information in an anterior medial-temporal region that were focused in the subiculum. These results indicate that separate components of the human medial temporal-lobe memory system are active during distinct memory processes.
The proline-rich COOH-terminal region of dynamin binds various Src homology 3 (SH3) domain-containing proteins, but the physiological role of these interactions is unknown. In living nerve terminals, the function of the interaction with SH3 domains was examined. Amphiphysin contains an SH3 domain and is a major dynamin binding partner at the synapse. Microinjection of amphiphysin's SH3 domain or of a dynamin peptide containing the SH3 binding site inhibited synaptic vesicle endocytosis at the stage of invaginated clathrin-coated pits, which resulted in an activity-dependent distortion of the synaptic architecture and a depression of transmitter release. These findings demonstrate that SH3-mediated interactions are required for dynamin function and support an essential role of clathrin-mediated endocytosis in synaptic vesicle recycling.
Dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area regulate movement and affective behavior and degenerate in Parkinson's disease. The orphan nuclear receptor Nurr1 was shown to be expressed in developing dopamine neurons before the appearance of known phenotypic markers for these cells. Mice lacking Nurr1 failed to generate midbrain dopaminergic neurons, were hypoactive, and died soon after birth. Nurr1 expression continued into adulthood, and brains of heterozygous animals, otherwise apparently healthy, contained reduced dopamine levels. These results suggest that putative Nurr1 ligands may be useful for treatment of Parkinson's disease and other disorders of midbrain dopamine circuitry.
Microsurgical reconstructions of brachial plexuses were performed on twelve monkeys by using ipsilateral intercostal nerves (T3-9). Reinnervation in individual nerves was evaluated monthly by observations of neuromuscular and electromyographic improvements. The electromyographic studies revealed reappearance of motor unit potentials. According to a motor scale ranging from 0 to 4, the mean muscle power 6 months after operation improved to 2.75 in the deltoid muscles, 2 in the biceps muscles, 1.22 in the triceps muscles, 1.13 in the flexor carpi radialis muscles, and 1.6 in the intrinsic muscles of the hands. Retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) from the neuromuscular junctions of the reconstructed musculocutaneous nerves 6 months after complete brachial plexus lesion in four animals demonstrated HRP-labeled neurons in the anterior horns, spinal ganglia and sympathetic ganglia of the thoracic spinal cords. It suggested that the regenerated afferent and efferent circuits in the thoracic cords innervating the transected brachial plexuses were able to generate the movements in the paralyzed upper limbs. However, as evidenced by the behavior patterns and the fact that retrograde-labeled neurons were all found in the thoracic cords, the novel movements observed in the reconstructed brachial plexuses were in synchrony with respiration. These results suggested that the plasticity of central neural networks is limited between two widely separated areas, such as between the midcervical and midthoracic motor cortical areas in the present studies, and therefore, the efforts to reconstruct neural networks, both centrally and peripherally, should aim at rebuilding situations as nearly to the original status as possible.
We have established a permanent cell line (1H91) of putative type-1 astrocyte precursor cells that were clonally derived from a single cell isolated from E16 mouse cerebellum. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor (TGF alpha) are strong mitogens for 1H91 cells (ED50 of 9.02 + 1.74 ng/ml and 15.98 +/- 2.34 ng/ml, respectively), while basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is only weakly mitogenic and platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) has no mitogenic activity. In the proliferative state, the 1H91 cells are immunohistochemically positive for nestin and vimentin, and negative for A2B5, CNPase, neurofilament (NF), and neuron specific enolase (NSE). The majority of EGF-treated 1H91 cells are not immunoreactive for glial acid fibrillary protein (GFAP). In the presence of 5 ng/ml bFGF, 1H91 cells become non-mitotic and develop a morphology consistent with a fibrous astrocyte. In contrast to the proliferating cultures, the bFGF treated cultures were strongly immunoreactive for GFAP, only mildly immunoreactive for nestin and vimentin, and negative for A2B5, CNPase, NF, and NSE. Type-1 astrocytes are known to proliferate in response to EGF, and are immunohistochemically GFAP positive, A2B5 negative, and CNPase negative [38]. However, type-1 astrocytes only develop a fibrous morphology during the process of reactive gliosis [31]. Since EGF is a strong mitogen for 1H91 cells, and these cells may be differentiated into GFAP positive, A2B5 negative, CNPase negative astrocytes, we conclude that 1H91 cells conform to a type-1 astrocyte precursor phenotype. In addition, the fibrous morphology of the bFGF treated 1H91 cells suggests that these cells follow the process of reactive gliosis. Therefore, the 1H91 clonal cell line may provide an in vitro model for studying the underlying cellular mechanisms of the type-1 astrocyte in reactive gliosis.
The delta-opioid receptor found in SH-SY5Y cells was characterized in terms of binding profile and ability to mediate the inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cAMP accumulation. Both DPDPE ([D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin) and deltorphin II, compounds reported to be selective for the delta 1- and delta 2-opioid receptor respectively, were potent agonists in these cells. Binding studies indicated that naltrindole benzofuran (NTB) had significantly higher affinity than 7-benzylidenenaltrexone (BNTX); however, both compounds have high affinity for the delta-opioid receptor found in SH-SY5Y cells. Naltrindole benzofuran was found to be a potent antagonist, with an IC50 of less than 1 nM, while 7-benzylidene naltrexone was found to be a relatively weak antagonist, requiring greater than 100 nM to inhibit 50% of agonist activity. Binding to intact SH-SY5Y cells was compared to binding to cell membranes and guinea-pig brain membranes. In each case, binding affinities were very similar. These studies suggest that the receptor found in SH-SY5Y cells could probably be classified as a delta 2-opioid receptor. However, the very similar binding characteristics of SH-SY5Y cells and guinea-pig brain membranes call into question the ability to label delta 1-opioid receptors.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) mediate activities such as survival, differentiation, and proliferation in various subsets of neurons. In this report, we define precisely the residues in human NGF responsible for NGF biological activity and binding specificity to the neurotrophin receptor TrkA. In earlier studies we defined five amino acid residues of NGF which confer NGF-like activity to NT-3 when replacing corresponding residues in the 120-amino acid long NT-3 molecule. Using this gain-of-function strategy we report the further dissection of this functional epitope. We also define another motif separated topographically in the NGF dimer and determined to be independently responsible for NGF specificity. The first of the two motifs determined to elicit NGF specificity is defined by the residues Val-48, Pro-49, and Gln-96, which are situated in the two top beta-loops of NGF. The second motif is represented by residues Pro-5 and Phe-7 situated in the proximal part of the NH2 terminus. Both motifs contain structurally important residues revealing a novel principle, where specificity for neurotrophin ligand-receptor interactions could be determined by variable residues modifying the conformation of the neurotrophin backbone. These findings will enhance further the possibility of mimicking NGF with low molecular weight compounds.
In the last 5 years the microwave oven has become a widely accepted apparatus for retrieving all kinds of antigens that are masked by prolonged formaldehyde fixation. However, it has so far not been possible to obtain good results for all the antigens we were interested in with just one method. This study offers a solution for this problem. We tested Tris buffered saline (TBS) pH 8-10 in order to see whether a microwave (MW) pretreatment in a solution with a high pH works on the antigens that have our particular interest: MAP-2, non-phosphorylated part of the neurofilament (SMI-32, SMI-311), phosphorylated part of the neurofilament (SMI-312) and the calcium binding proteins Calbindin D28-K, Parvalbumin and Calretinin. Furthermore we checked whether or not a lower temperature of 90 degrees C (instead of boiling the tissue) could be used to achieve the same good staining results. These tests showed that an MW pretreatment in TBS pH 9.0 at full power (boiling) gave the best results. Pretreatment at a lower temperature gave also good results for most (but not all) antibodies when the irradiation time was prolonged to 30 min. The optimal antigen retrieval method also improved the quality of staining with an antibody against neuropeptide Y (NPY), for which, until now, no antigen retrieval appeared to be necessary, even after a long duration of fixation.
Ischemia-induced hippocampal late-onset reduction of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (LORMAR) begins as late as 7 days after transient forebrain ischemia in the gerbil, but it precedes to completion of neuronal death in the CA1 region. We previously reported that post-ischemic administration of cyclosporin A prevented LORMAR with suppression of astroglial and microglial activation. In the present study, we showed that the chronic post-ischemic administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, ketoprofen (5 mg/kg, subcutaneously, twice a day for 14 days) significantly reduced LORMAR both 14 days and 21 days after 5-min transient ischemia. This protective effect of ketoprofen against LORMAR suggests that the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is clinically efficacious in the treatment of LORMAR, a sequela of cerebral ischemia.



A discussion of neonatal hypoglycemia was held on 18 November 1995 as a satellite symposium of the 40th Annual Meeting of Japan Society for Premature and Newborn Medicine and continued in closed session of 19 November to address neonatal hypoglycemia in the 21st century. This represented a 30-year follow-up of a discussion of carbohydrate and energy metabolism in the newborn held in Tokyo on 10 November 1965. This follow-up was prompted by the incredible advances in clinical care in perinatal medicine and in basic knowledge in the neurosciences, neonatal physiology and metabolism that have occurred in Japan and around the world throughout these 3 decades.
The ventilatory response to anoxia in unanaesthetized rat pups of 1 and 8 days of age was studied. Ventilation was recorded by barometric plethysmography. During acute anoxia (100% N2), animals of both ages responded with hyperpnoea, primary apnoea, hypoxic gasping and secondary apnoea. After secondary gasping, occasional gasps occurred. If oxygen was administered during the gasping period, all animals survived through autoresuscitation. The duration of the period of hypoxic gasping was significantly longer in the 1-day-old animals. Adrenalectomy reduced the length of this period in both 1- and 8-day-old animals. In a second series of experiments, the effect of adrenergic antagonists on autoresuscitation was examined. Pretreatment with the non-selective alpha-receptor antagonist phentolamine reduced the duration of gasping in 1-day-old rats, but prolonged this duration in 8-day-old rats. The non-selective beta-receptor antagonist propranolol did not affect the duration of gasping in 1-day-old rats, whereas it prolonged this period in the older animals. We conclude that proper duration of gasping during anoxia is dependent on intact adrenal function and that the adrenal glands therefore play an important role in autoresuscitation from anoxia during postnatal life. The underlying mechanism appears to involve alpha-adrenergic receptors.
Portacaval anastomosis (PCA) is a surgical procedure whereby blood from the portal vein is shunted into the inferior vena cava. PCA in the rat results in a significant increase (from 0.77 +/- 0.26 to 3.51 +/- 0.37 g of ethanol/kg/day) in voluntary ethanol consumption in a free-choice paradigm between water and 5% ethanol solution. After PCA surgery, increased voluntary ethanol consumption starts abruptly at 6 to 7 days and is maintained for &gt; 28 weeks. Voluntary ethanol consumption in rats after PCA results in blood ethanol levels up to 158 mg%. After PCA, the ethanol preference ratio (defined as the percentage of total fluid intake constituted by ethanol) increased from 19 +/- 2% to 78 +/- 2% (P &lt; 0.001). Administration of the nonselective opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (5 mg/kg, sc) resulted in a significant 6-fold attenuation of voluntary ethanol consumption by rats with PCA, an effect that was not mediated by an effect on locomotor activity. These findings, together with previous reports of widespread alterations of the mu- and delta-opioid receptors in the brain after PCA, suggest that increased voluntary ethanol consumption and ethanol preference in PCA rats may result from activation of the endogenous opioid system. Preliminary studies suggest that rats with PCA manifest behavioral signs consistent with the development of dependence. The portacaval-shunted rat may provide a useful preparation for the study of mechanisms, in particular those involving the liver, implicated in the development of increased voluntary ethanol consumption and ethanol preference.
Two recent lines of evidence raise the possibility that instability in germ-line or somatic cells arises by a common mechanism that involves defective mismatch repair. Mutations in mismatch-repair proteins are known to cause instability in hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer, instability that is physically similar to germ-line instability observed in Huntington disease (HD). Furthermore, both germ-line and somatic-cell instability are likely to be mitotic defects, the former occurring early in embryogenesis. To test the hypothesis that defective repair is a common prerequisite for instability, we have utilized two disease groups that represent different instability &quot;conditions.&quot; Germ-line instability within simple tandem repeats (STR) at 10 loci in 29 HD families were compared with somatic instability at the same loci in 26 colon cancer (CC) patients with identified or suspected defects in mismatch-repair enzymes. HD is known to be caused by expansion within the CAG repeat of the locus, but the extent or pattern of STR instability outside this region has not been examined systematically. We find a distinctly different pattern of STR mutation in the two disease groups, suggesting different mechanisms. Instability in HD is generally confined to a single locus, whereas instability is widespread for the same loci in CC. Our data do not support a causative role for defective mismatch-repair enzymes in instability associated with HD; rather, our data are consistent with a model in which DNA structure may inhibit normal mismatch repair at the expansion site.
Food deprivation decreases fertility in female mammals in part by inhibiting sexual behaviors. Genetically obese ob/ob mice, like food-deprived wild-type animals, are also infertile; treatment of ob/ob mice with leptin, the adipocyte-derived protein that they lack, corrects some of their reproductive deficiencies. We tested the hypothesis that leptin treatment would prevent the suppression of sexual receptivity that is caused by food deprivation in female Syrian hamsters. Instead, we found that treatment with murine leptin facilitated female sexual behavior in ad libitum-fed hamsters, but not in food-deprived animals. In food-deprived hamsters, leptin treatment actually intensified the inhibition of lordosis. Food deprivation decreased detectable estrogen receptor immunoreactivity (ERIR) in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), but the leptin-induced changes in female sexual behavior were not accompanied by parallel changes in VMH ERIR. Thus leptin facilitates estrous behavior in hamsters, but it does not overcome the lordosis-inhibiting metabolic cues produced by acute food deprivation. Because circulating leptin levels are directly related to body fat content, an implication of these findings is that elevated levels of adipose tissue could have a positive influence on sexual responsiveness.
Old rats may show blunted fever or hypothermia after injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a fever-producing agent, and have a reduced body temperature (Tb) rise in response to psychological stress. These results may partly be a consequence of aging per se, partly a sex difference, and partly an effect of differences in types and doses of pyrogen. Here we tested age and gender differences in Tb responses to 30-min exposure to a novel environment and to injection of several doses of LPS. There were age-related reductions in novelty-induced hyperthermia, and some old rats even became hypothermic. Sensitivity to the pyrogenic activity of LPS and to the toxic effects of endotoxin (manifested by hypothermia) both increased in aged female rats. A major finding was that there were no correlations between age-related changes in Tb in response to novelty and to LPS injection. Tb responses in aged rats were variable; in each situation, there were old rats whose Tb rose as high as did younger ones. We did not observe significant gender differences in response either to novelty or to LPS in young or old rats.
Native opioid peptides serve as growth factors in a number of normal and neoplastic cells and tissues. This study investigated the influence of opioids on circadian rhythm-dependent DNA synthesis in mouse esophagus during homeostatic renewal. In contrast to a labeling index (LI) of 24.0% at 0630 and 5.5% at 1600, disruption of opioid-receptor interaction by the potent opioid antagonist naltrexone hydrochloride (NTX; 10 mg/kg) in mice resulted in an elevation of 49% in DNA synthesis of esophageal epithelial cells at 1600, but had no effect at 0630. Mice subjected to [Met5]enkephalin (1 mg/kg) had an LI that was decreased 23% from control levels at 0630, but was unaffected at 1600. This decrease in DNA synthesis was blocked by concomitant administration of naloxone (10 mg/kg); naloxone alone had no influence on cell replicative processes. In tissue culture studies, NTX and OGF markedly increased and decreased, respectively, the LI from control values. Both opioid growth factor (OGF) and its receptor, zeta, were detected in all but the cornified layer of mouse esophageal epithelium and in the epithelial cells of the stomach and small and large intestines. In addition, both peptide and receptor were observed in the basal and suprabasal cells of human esophageal epithelium. These results indicate that an endogenous opioid peptide (OGF) and its receptor (zeta) reside in gastrointestinal epithelium and play a role in cellular renewal processes in a tonically inhibitory, direct, and circadian rhythm-dependent fashion.

Male rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) were administered daily doses of the antimalarial drug arteether. The 14-day treated group received either 24 mg/kg/day, 16 mg/kg/day, or 8 mg/kg/day. The seven-day treatment group received either 24 mg/kg/day or 8 mg/kg/day. All control cases in each group received the sesame oil vehicle alone. Neurologic signs were absent for animals in the seven and 14-day treatment groups except for one monkey which showed diffuse piloerection on day 14, and another monkey receiving 24 mg/kg/day for seven days showed mild lethargy after the fourth day. Mild, sporadic anorexia was noted in all animals by day 14, and a single animal showed diffuse piloerection on day 14. Surgical anesthesia preceded killing by exsanguination and was accompanied by perfusion fixation of the central nervous system. Brain sections were cut and then stained for study by light microscopy. Evidence of neuronal pathology, both descriptive and numerical, was collected. The neuroanatomic and neuropathologic findings demonstrated that arteether produced extensive brainstem injury when administered for 14 days. The magnitude of brainstem neurotoxicity was dose-dependent, where injury was greatest at the 24 mg/kg/day dose level, less at the 16 mg/kg/day dose level, and least at the 8 mg/kg/day dose level. Arteether induced multiple systems injury to brainstem nuclei of 1) the reticular formation (cranial and caudal pontine nuclei, and medullary gigantocellular and paragigantocellular nuclei); 2) the vestibular system (medial, descending, superior, and lateral nuclei); and 3) the auditory system (superior olivary nuclear complex and trapezoid nuclear complex). The vestibular nuclei and the reticular formation were most severely injured, with the auditory system affected less. The cranial nerve nuclei (somatic and splanchnic) appeared to escape damage, with the exception of the abducens nerve nucleus. The same brainstem nuclear groups of seven-day treated monkeys appeared normal. The statistical data are concordant with the descriptive data in demonstrating neurotoxic effects. In summary, no neurologic deficits were detected in any of the vehicle control monkeys (14-day and seven-day cases). Monkeys in the 14-day treatment group were free of clinical neurologic signs throughout the first week. At day 14, fine horizontal nystagmus was seen in one monkey, and another monkey exhibited diffuse piloerection. Monkeys in the seven-day treatment group were free of clinical neurologic signs except for one case. This monkey was treated with 24/mg/kg/day of arteether and exhibited lethargy after the fourth day. These indications of dysfunction arose too late to be practical indicators of neurotoxicity.
A significant proportion of patients with inborn errors of the mitochondrial respiratory chain exhibit movement disorders, particularly dystonia. Point mutations of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) are usually expressed systemically, and defects of platelet respiratory chain function have been described in patients with mtDNA mutations and Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON). Recent reports have documented families with dystonia in association with LHON and mtDNA complex I gene mutations. We have examined mitochondrial function in platelet mitochondria from patients with familial generalized dystonia (linked or not linked to 9q34) and sporadic focal dystonia. We confirm a previous report of a specific complex I defect in patients with sporadic focal dystonia but could not find any abnormality in patients with familial generalized dystonia, linked or not to 9q34. These results support the existence of a mitochondrial deficiency in sporadic focal dystonia and provide a biochemical dimension to the clinical and genetic distinction between focal and generalized familial dystonia.
In myasthenia gravis (MG), extraocular muscle (EOM) weakness is often an initial and persisting symptom. It has been proposed that acetylcholine receptor (AChR) from EOM is antigenically different from AChR of other innervated muscles and that the presence of antibodies to fetal AChR expressed in EOM causes their weakness. We have (1) studied mRNA expression for each of the AChR subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) in human muscle, including EOM, and (2) compared the binding of sera from ocular myasthenia gravis (OMG) patients with fetal (alpha2 beta gamma delta) and adult (alpha2 beta epsilon delta) human AChRs. RNase protection assays showed that expression of the AChR gamma-subunit (fetal-type) mRNA in EOM was comparable with that in other innervated muscle types. By contrast, epsilon-subunit (adult-type) mRNA was expressed at much higher levels in EOM than in other muscles studied. Moreover, some OMG sera bound specifically to adult AChR. These results do not support the contention that susceptibility of EOM in MG results from expression of fetal AChR and indicate that the inclusion of antigen from a source rich in adult AChR in the MG diagnostic assay will increase the yield of positive results in OMG patients.
We present a system for the assessment of the inhibiting capacity of antisense oligonucleotides. The aim of this study was to identify an oligonucleotide that can inhibit chicken nerve growth factor (NGF) synthesis. Five antisense chicken NGF phosphorothioate oligonucleotides, AS1-5, were designed and were tested for their capacity to inhibit NGF expression in COS cells. COS cells that transiently expressed chicken NGF were treated with the oligonucleotides, and NGF expression was analyzed using a bioassay and Western blotting for NGF protein. Two oligonucleotides, AS 1 and AS 5, were more capable than the others of inhibiting expression compared with nonsense oligonucleotide, and they targeted the translational initiation and stop sites. The chicken NGF is expressed at a high level from an adenovirus major late promoter, and AS 1 was capable of inhibiting more than 80% of the NGF expression as determined using the bioassay and Western blotting. Expression of another member of the NGF gene family, neurotrophin-4, was not affected by treatment of the antisense oligonucleotides. A 10-fold lower concentration of the AS 1 oligonucleotide could be used to inhibit NGF synthesis if the cellular uptake was facilitated using lipofectin compared with addition of oligonucleotide directly to the culture medium. The amount of oligonucleotide taken up by the cells was similar in the lipofectin-treated cells as in the cells treated by a 10-fold higher concentration of medium-supplemented nucleotide. This system based on COS cells can facilitate evaluation of the capacity of inhibiting antisense oligonucleotides, particularly targeting those genes in which endogenous products are present in low levels and are difficult to analyze.



The aetiology and pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) remain unknown. There is a consensus emerging that there are likely to be multiple aetiologies that may result in the clinical and pathological abnormalities common to the majority of patients with idiopathic PD. Genetic factors have been suggested as important in either the cause of PD or in determining susceptibility. The recent linkage in one large pedigree of a gene for autosomal dominant parkinsonism to chromosome 4q21-23 and the subsequent identification of a mutation in the alpha-synuclein gene of this region are important steps towards identifying a biochemical deficiency capable of causing selective dopaminergic cell death. However, the relevance of such a defect to the majority of patients with apparent sporadic PD remains to be established. Factors that may predispose to substantia nigral cell loss, including mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage, could be common to a number of separate aetiologies. A better understanding of these and their relationship to neuronal loss may provide further clues to aetiology.
The aim of this study was to investigate if the neuropeptide substance P (SP) can improve learning and memory in goldfish (Carassius auratus). Four groups of fish were trained for seven days to find food in one out of two compartments until discrimination was achieved. On the last training day, they were injected (intra-abdominal) with haloperidol or vehicle before the training, and with SP or vehicle immediately after the training session. Each group of fish received either: (1) vehicle+vehicle (n = 18); (2) vehicle + SP, (n = 20, SP 50 mg/kg); (3) haloperidol+ vehicle (n = 15, haloperidol 2 mg/kg); or (4) haloperidol+ SP (n = 14, haloperidol 2 mg/kg, SP 50 mg/kg). Twenty-four hours later, the time spent to find the food was recorded. Reversal training was done for four consecutive days after this post-injection test and the time spent to find the food was recorded again. The results indicate that only the group treated with vehicle + SP needed more time to reach reversal training than control fish (Mann-Whitney U-test, P = 0.0009). It is suggested that SP can enhance memory in fish and that this effect may have a dopaminergic mediation in discrimination learning task.
This study is concerned with the question whether the medial prefrontal cortex mediates spatial navigation requiring the expression of response learning. It consists of two parts. In the first experiment it was investigated whether intact male Wistar rats can learn a spatial response task in a Morris water maze, and, if so, how the learning of this task compares with the learning of a place task, in the same water maze. The data illustrate that rats can indeed learn the response task demands, but also demonstrate that this task is more difficult to learn than the place task. This is evidenced by a slower and more capricious acquisition. Based on these findings a second experiment was conducted, in which sham-operated rats and rats with damage of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) were compared for their acquisition in the response task in the Morris water maze. The results showed that both escape latency and path length of the mPFC-damaged animals were significantly higher than those of the sham-operated animals. A behavioral analysis of the swimming paths demonstrated that the mPFC-damaged rats were more persistent in their use of a place strategy, while the sham-operated animals sooner switched to the more successful taxon-orientation strategy. Taken together with previous findings these data support the hypothesis of a functional dissociation of the mPFC with regard to its involvement in the expression of place and response learning.
Neonatally induced microgyric lesions produce defects in rapid auditory processing in adult male rats. Given that females across species are less susceptible to the deleterious effects of neural injury and that treatment with neuroprotective agents at the time of injury can reduce neural damage, the authors tested the effects of sex and neuroprotectant exposure on the behavioral consequences of microgyric lesions in rats. Results showed that sham but not microgyric males were able to perform the task at the fastest rate of stimulus presentation. Microgyric females, in contrast, discriminated at all stimulus conditions and did not differ from female shams. Microgyric males treated with MK-801 had reduced cortical damage and performed the discrimination at the fastest condition. Results suggest that females are less susceptible to the behavioral effects of neocortical microgyria and that MK-801 may ameliorate the behavioral consequences of these lesions in male rats.
Four experiments were conducted to identify the possible loci of habituation of the nematode tap withdrawal response (TWR) by characterizing the effects of TWR habituation on other nonmechanosensory withdrawal behaviors that are mediated by overlapping sets of neurons. Experiments 1-2 established behavioral and anatomical relationships between spontaneous and tap-induced backward locomotion in the worm. Experiment 3 demonstrated that habituation of the TWR affected neither the magnitude nor frequency of spontaneous reversal activity. Experiment 4 extended this result to an evoked response: Habituation of the TWR had no effect on reversals evoked by a thermal stimulus. These studies, which show that the loci of change associated with habituation of the TWR are presynaptic to the interneurons and motor neurons that control locomotion, probably distributed among the mechanosensory neurons, illustrate that a complete understanding of plasticity requires a knowledge of both the anatomical and molecular substrates of change.
The levels of nitric oxide (NO) and NO synthase (NOS) activities in the brain of young-adult (3 months old), aged (11 months old) and nimodipine-administered (11 months old) senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM), of which SAMP8 sub-strain is inferior in acquisition of learning and has a lower content in testosterone, were compared. Nimodipine, which is L-type calcium ion channel blocker and has memory-enhancing effects, was administered orally for 5 months. In the cerebral cortex of aged SAMP8, NOS activity was increased compared with that of young-adult SAMP8. Though nimodipine did not alter the contents of NO in any brain regions compared with those in aged SAMP8, nimodipine increased NOS activity in the aged cerebellum. Our data suggest that nimodipine may increase NOS activity through elevation of testosterone level, as testosterone increases NOS only in the cerebellum, although further work is clearly needed to ascertain effects of nimodipine on testosterone metabolism and maintenance in the acquisition of learning.
How different neural crest derivatives differentiate in distinct embryonic locations in the vertebrate embryo is an intriguing issue. Many attempts have been made to understand the underlying mechanism of specific pathway choices made by migrating neural crest cells. In this speculative review we suggest a new mechanism for the regulation of neural crest cell migration patterns in avian and mammalian embryos, based on recent progress in understanding the expression and activity of receptor tyrosine kinases during embryogenesis. Distinct subpopulations of crestderived cells express specific receptor tyrosine kinases while residing in a migration staging area. We postulate that the differential expression of receptor tyrosine kinases by specific subpopulations of neural crest cells allows them to respond to localized growth factor ligand activity in the embryo. Thus, the migration pathway taken by neural crest subpopulations is determined by their receptor tyrosine kinase response to the differential localization of their cognate ligand.
During late embryonic and early postnatal development, synaptic connections are extensively modified so that some functional connections are weakened and eliminated from a neural circuit while others are strengthened and maintained. The mechanisms that underlie synapse elimination are beginning to be understood from studies of the neuromuscular junction. A recent paper provides some intriguing insights into the role proteases may play in the developmental disassembly of neuromuscular synapses.
Pituitary abscess is a rare condition occurring in various age groups. Only about a hundred cases have been reported in the literature. We describe six cases that constitute 0.6% of all the pituitary lesions operated at this centre in the last 10 years. All the patients presented with visual symptoms, though systemic features of infection were present in only two cases. The abscess was seen in association with adenoma in two cases and Rathke's cleft cyst in one. One patient developed an abscess following surgery for pituitary adenoma. The offending organisms was fungal in two cases, mycobacterium in one, bacterial in one and two cultures were sterile. Preoperative diagnosis is difficult and a high degree of suspicion in ring enhancing lesions of the sella is required.

1. We investigated the effects of [Nle4,D-Phe7]alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (NDP-MSH), adrenocorticotropin-(1-24) (ACTH-(1-24)) and gamma 2-MSH, three melanocortins with different agonist selectivity for the five cloned melanocortin receptors, on blood pressure and heart rate in conscious, freely moving rats following intravenous administration. 2. As was previously found by other investigators as well as by us gamma 2-MSH, a peptide suggested to be an agonist with selectivity for the melanocortin MC3 receptor, caused a dose-dependent, short lasting pressor response in combination with a tachycardia. Despite the fact that NDP-MSH is a potent agonist of various melanocortin receptor subtypes, among which the melanocortin MC1 receptor, it did not affect blood pressure or heart rate, when administered i.v. in doses of up to 1000 nmol kg-1. 3. ACTH-(1-24) caused a dose-dependent decrease in blood pressure in combination with a dose-dependent increase in heart rate in a dose-range from 15 to 500 nmol kg-1. The cardiovascular effects of ACTH-(1-24) were independent of the presence of the adrenals. 4. Pretreatment with ACTH-(1-24) caused a pronounced, dose-dependent parallel shift to the right of the dose-response curve for the pressor and tachycardiac effects of gamma 2-MSH. The antagonistic effect of ACTH-(1-24) was already apparent following a dose of this peptide as low as 10 nmol kg-1, which when given alone had no intrinsic hypotensive activity. 5. These results form further support for the notion that it is not via activation of one of the as yet cloned melanocortin receptors that gamma-MSH-like peptides increase blood pressure and heart rate. The cardiovascular effects of ACTH-(1-24) seem not to be mediated by the adrenal melanocortin MC3 receptors, for which ACTH-(1-24) is a selective agonist, or by adrenal catecholamines. 6. There appears to be a functional antagonism between ACTH-(1-24) and gamma 2-MSH, two melanocortins derived from a common precursor, with respect to their effect on blood pressure and heart rate. Whether this antagonism plays a (patho)physiological role remains to be shown.
The effects of the synthetic cannabinoid WIN 55,212-2 on forskolin-stimulated and basal adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (cyclic AMP) accumulation in globus pallidus slices were investigated. WIN 55,212-2 caused a concentration-dependent decrease in forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation in globus pallidus slices (maximum inhibition 36% for 30 microM). This effect was blocked by the cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR 141716A (100 microM). WIN 55,212-2 alone caused a concentration-dependent increase in cyclic AMP levels in unstimulated slices (maximum increase 52.6% for 100 microM). This effect was also blocked by SR 141716A (100 microM). In either forskolin-stimulated or unstimulated conditions SR 1417161A (100 microM) did not affect cyclic AMP levels.
The modular organization of nervous systems is a widely documented principle of design for both vertebrate and invertebrate brains of which the columnar organization of the neocortex is an example. The classical cytoarchitectural areas of the neocortex are composed of smaller units, local neural circuits repeated iteratively within each area. Modules may vary in cell type and number, in internal and external connectivity, and in mode of neuronal processing between different large entities; within any single large entity they have a basic similarity of internal design and operation. Modules are most commonly grouped into entities by sets of dominating external connections. This unifying factor is most obvious for the heterotypical sensory and motor areas of the neocortex. Columnar defining factors in homotypical areas are generated, in part, within the cortex itself. The set of all modules composing such an entity may be fractionated into different modular subsets by different extrinsic connections. Linkages between them and subsets in other large entities form distributed systems. The neighborhood relations between connected subsets of modules in different entities result in nested distributed systems that serve distributed functions. A cortical area defined in classical cytoarchitectural terms may belong to more than one and sometimes to several distributed systems. Columns in cytoarchitectural areas located at some distance from one another, but with some common properties, may be linked by long-range, intracortical connections.
Cerebral ischaemia, the most frequent serious complication of carotid endarterectomy (CEA), usually occurs in the early postoperative period and is often the result of thromboembolism. We hypothesized that the early postoperative detection of microembolic ultrasonic signals (MES) with transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) may be of value in identifying patients at risk of postoperative cerebral ischaemia and that the MES rate may be an important determinant in risk prediction. Sixty-five patients undergoing CEA were studied at intervals up to 24 h postoperatively with TCD insonation of the middle cerebral artery ipsilateral to the operation side. Study design was open and prospective with blinded off-line analysis of MES counts. End-points were any focal ischaemic neurological deficit and/or death up to 30 days postoperatively. MES were detected in 69% of cases during the first hour postoperatively with counts ranging from 0 to 212 MES/h (means 19 MES/h; SEM +2- 4.5; median 4 MES/h). In seven cases (10.8%) counts were &gt; 50 MES/h. Five of these seven cases developed ischaemic neurological deficits in the territory of the insonated middle cerebral artery during the monitoring period. The positive predictive value of counts &gt; 50 MES/h for cerebral ischaemia was 0.71. Frequent signals (&gt; 50 MES/h) occur in approximately 10% of cases in the early postoperative phase of CEA and are predictive for the development of ipsilateral focal cerebral ischaemia.
Ca2+ dyshomeostasis is a contributing factor to the development and progression of neurodegenerative disease. Plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPases (PMCAs) are responsible for setting intracellular Ca2+ levels and may be involved in the dynamic processing of Ca2+ loads in normal and pathological conditions. In situ hybridization was employed to determine the expression pattern of the four human PMCA isoforms in the human hippocampus. PMCA1 and 3 mRNAs were weakly expressed throughout the hippocampal formation, whereas PMCA2 and 4 mRNA expression showed distinct regional differences, with increased levels in CA2 and the dentate gyrus. Differential expression of PMCA isoforms may reflect cellular differences in Ca(2+)-handling properties and provide a partial explanation for the differential susceptibility of hippocampal neurons to Ca(2+)-mediated cell death.
Previous radioligand-binding studies have reported conflicting results concerning the effect of chronic morphine administration on the regulation of mu-opioid receptor (MOR) density. On the other hand, chronic administration of an opioid antagonist, such as naltrexone, has been shown to increase the density of the MOR. In order to determine if the changes in the MOR are associated with alterations in receptor mRNA levels, we investigated MOR gene expression following chronic treatment with morphine and/or naltrexone. MOR mRNA levels, determined by the ribonuclease protection assay (RPA), were unchanged with respect to control during chronic morphine treatment and morphine withdrawal in each of the analysed brain areas. Furthermore, chronic administration of naltrexone did not result in changes of MOR mRNA levels in rat striatum of naive and morphine-dependent rats, suggesting that the up-regulation of the MOR density, at least in this tissue, is not regulated at transcriptional level.
Steady-state visual evoked magnetic fields (SSVEFs) were recorded in response to a flickering light source using a 37-channel magnetometer. The SSVEF had a sinusoidal waveform having the same fundamental frequency as the driving stimulus, which was either 6.0 Hz, 11.9 Hz, or 15.2 Hz. SSVEF topographies at each frequency had a dipoloar form over the posterior head that could well-modelled by single equivalent current dipoles. The best-fit dipoles were localized in posterior occipital cortex for the SSVEFs to 6.0 and 11.9 Hz stimuli and in more anterior and ventromedial occipital cortex for the 15.2 Hz SSVEP.
Over the past decade the treatment of schizophrenia has changed in each of its biopsychosocial domains. Advances in neuroscience, particularly in the knowledge of the receptor site, led to increased effectiveness of antipsychotic medication. Development of more sophisticated psychoeducational and rehabilitative techniques enhanced the chances for fuller recovery. Evolution from therapeutic community to continuum of care replaced the traditional inpatient setting with a range of more ambulatory-based alternatives. Comprehensive treatment matches these changes with the phase of illness and is reinforced with a flexible and supportive psychotherapy that emphasizes medication compliance and educational and problem-solving tasks.
Activity in the mammalian thalamocortical system is often accompanied by a synchronous discharge of cortical and thalamic neurons. Although many functions have been attributed to such synchronous firing, it is not known whether or how synchrony of firing per se affects thalamocortical operations. Direct experimental tests of the consequences of neuronal synchronization in vivo are hard to carry out, whereas theoretical studies based on single-neuron models cannot reveal the effects of synchrony at the system level. To overcome these limitations, we have used a perturbational approach to test the causal efficacy of synchrony per se in large-scale simulations of the thalamocortical system. The test consists of selectively disrupting firing synchrony by 'jittering' the timing of action potentials in the simulations and determining whether firing rates are modified by this perturbation. The simulations are based in detail on the known anatomy and physiology of the thalamocortical-visual system of the cat, and have been shown in a companion paper to produce episodes of fast synchronous activity at multiple levels. By carrying out the perturbation analysis, we established that neurons can have long membrane time constants (8-16 ms) and balanced synaptic activations, and yet function collectively in such a way that synchrony within a time window of 4 ms significantly affects the rates and selectivity of the responses to visual stimuli. The simulations also revealed a complex interplay, at the network level, between synchrony of firing and rate of firing. The dynamic consequences of firing synchrony were most evident when spike jittering was applied to specific polysynaptic loops involving corticocortical and corticothalamic connections. These results support the view that firing synchrony within thalamocortical and corticocortical loops plays a causal role in the cooperative and competitive neural interactions that produce pattern-selective responses in the cortex.
A large-scale computer model was constructed to gain insight into the structural basis for the generation of fast synchronous rhythms (20-60 Hz) in the thalamocortical system. The model consisted of 65,000 spiking neurons organized topographically to represent sectors of a primary and secondary area of mammalian visual cortex, and two associated regions of the dorsal thalamus and the thalamic reticular nucleus. Cortical neurons, both excitatory and inhibitory, were organized in supragranular layers, infraganular layers and layer IV. Reciprocal intra- and interlaminar, interareal, thalamocortical, corticothalamic and thalamoreticular connections were set up based on known anatomical constraints. Simulations of neuronal responses to visual input revealed sporadic epochs of synchronous oscillations involving all levels of the model, similar to the fast rhythms recorded in vivo. By systematically modifying physiological and structural parameters in the model, specific network properties were found to play a major role in the generation of this rhythmic activity. For example, fast synchronous rhythms could be sustained autonomously by lateral and interlaminar interactions within and among local cortical circuits. In addition, these oscillations were propagated to the thalamus and amplified by corticothalamocortical loops, including the thalamic reticular complex. Finally, synchronous oscillations were differentially affected by lesioning forward and backward interareal connections.

A 22-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because she showed psychomotor excitement and signs of schizophrenia following psychological stress. Nine days after neuroleptic medication, she could not eat and exhibited high fever, diaphoresis, excessive salivation, and severe extrapyramidal signs with cogwheel rigidity and resting tremor of the upper extremities. The next day, bucco-linguomasticatory dyskinesia, which is quite similar to tardive dyskinesia, appeared. The dyskinesia lasted intermittently for 6 days. The present case shows that buccolingual dyskinesia can occur even after early neuroleptic exposure in certain patients.
Patients with advanced Parkinson's disease often develop severe fluctuations and dyskinesias while receiving long-term levodopa therapy. These complications can prove increasingly difficult to control. Here we review our strategies for coping with such problems. These include establishing the best rational schedule of levodopa treatment, optimizing levodopa absorption, the use of oral dopaminergic agonists, and the use of subcutaneous injections or infusions of apomorphine or lisuride. The problems of severe dyskinesias, sleep disturbances, psychotoxicity, and urinary difficulties also are considered. Finally, the role of new surgical procedures to treat Parkinson's disease is reviewed.
Studies of spontaneous mutant mice with neurological phenotypes, particularly the cloning and analysis of the genes responsible, are shedding light on the complex processes that lead to formation of the deceptively simple layered structure of the cerebral cortex.



A rich tradition of normative psychophysics has identified two ubiquitous properties of interval timing: the scalar property, a strong form of Weber's law, and ratio comparison mechanisms. Finding the neural substrate of these properties is a major challenge for neurobiology. Recently, advances have been made in our understanding of the brain structures important for timing, especially the basal ganglia and the cerebellum. Surgical intervention or diseases of the cerebellum generally result in increased variability in temporal processing, whereas both clock and memory effects are seen for neurotransmitter interventions, lesions and diseases of the basal ganglia. We propose that cerebellar dysfunction may induce deregulation of tonic thalamic tuning, which disrupts gating of the mnemonic temporal information generated in the basal ganglia through striato-thalamo-cortical loops.
Recent autopsy and/or quantitative magnetic resonance imaging studies of autistic patients have identified agenesis of the superior olive, dysgenesis of the facial nucleus, reduced numbers of Purkinje neurons, hypoplasia of the brainstem and posterior cerebellum, and increased neuron-packing density of the medial, cortical and central nuclei of the amygdala and the medial septum. As neurogenesis occurs for these different neuron types during approximately the fifth week of gestation, the possibility is raised that this may be a 'window of vulnerability' for autism; the likely etiologic heterogeneity of autism suggests that other windows of vulnerability are also possible.
The serotonergic system appears to play a role in behaviors that involve a high cognitive demand and in memory improvement or recovery from impaired cognitive performance, as made evident after administration of serotonin 5-HT2A/5-HT2C or 5-HT4 receptor agonists or 5-HT1A or 5-HT3 receptor antagonists. These serotonin receptor subtypes are localized on 'cognitive' pathways, with the hippocampus and frontal cortex as the main target structures. A better understanding of the role played by these and other serotonin receptor subtypes in cognition is likely to result from the recent availability of new specific ligands and new molecular tools, such as gene knock-out and transgenic mice.
Research on spatial problem-solving over the past two years has linked the hippocampus to path integration, that is, the use of movement-related cues to guide spatial behavior. Path integration may underlie the forms of place learning that are impaired by hippocampal damage. It remains a challenge to determine whether path integration is the central function of the hippocampus or but one of many.
Down syndrome, trisomy of chromosome 21, is well investigated because it is a genetic disease with characteristic mental retardation and precocious dementia of Alzheimer type. Maternal serum markers of human chorionic gonadotrophin unconjugated estriol and amyloid precursor protein, nuchal skinfold on ultrasound and new genetic probes are developed to allow better detection of Down syndrome. The overproduction of A beta 42 because of excessive genes is thought to be a leading factor for early onset of dementia in Down syndrome adults. Animal models and transgenic mice may be helpful in determining the specific gene and pathogenesis for mental retardation and precocious dementia.
During embryogenesis, different subclasses of sensory neurons extend central projections to specific locations in the spinal cord. Muscle and cutaneous afferents initially project to the same location in the dorsal cord. Later, specific muscle afferents leave other afferents behind and project into the ventral cord. Previous studies have shown that ventral spinal cord explants secrete a repellent for sensory neurites. We now find that antibodies to collapsin-1 neutralize this repellent activity. Additional data suggest that all afferents respond to collapsin-1 when they are first confined to the dorsal cord, but that ventrally projecting muscle afferents become collapsin-1 insensitive as they project into the ventral cord. Our results suggest that the transient dorsal expression of collapsin-1 prevents all efferents from entering the cord early and sustained ventral expression prevents dorsally terminating afferents from entering the ventral cord later.
Numerous studies of rat pituitaries have reported that inhibin suppresses the synthesis and release of FSH and decreases the release of LH. The latter effect seems to be related to the down-regulation of receptors for GnRH. The studies reported here identified cellular changes behind the inhibitory effects of inhibin on gonadotropes to learn whether its effects are mediated by changes in subtypes of gonadotropes. Cell populations from diestrous day 2 and proestrous (morning) rats were collected, dispersed to single cell populations, and plated in medium containing either recombinant 32-kDa inhibin or porcine follicular fluid for 24 h. GnRH binding was detected by exposing the cells to a biotinylated analog (Bio-GnRH) for 10 min before fixation, followed by avidin-peroxidase labeling protocols to detect the biotin on the analog. In parallel fields, the cells were further identified by immunolabeling for LH or FSH beta-subunits or for GH with a different colored reaction product. The most striking changes were seen in cells from proestrous rats. Inhibin reduced the percentages of Bio-GnRH target cells in the population by 60% and the area and density of Bio-GnRH label on the remaining cells. Inhibin reduced the percentages of FSH cells by 30% and caused nearly a 60% reduction in the binding of Bio-GnRH by this cell type (from 83% of FSH cells to 32% of FSH cells). Inhibin also reduced the area of FSH cells and the density of FSH stores. Inhibin's effects on LH cells were limited to a reduction in the area of the cells and the density of LH stores, but not the number of LH cells. In addition, it reduced the percentages of LH cells with Bio-GnRH receptors from 84% to 40%. When cells with GH were analyzed, inhibin had no effect on their percentages, areas, or GH stores. In populations from proestrous rats, inhibin reduced the percentages of GH cells with Bio-GnRH binding from 38% to 21%. These data suggest that inhibin's target cell is the abundant multihormonal gonadotrope that contains LH, FSH, and GH and predominates during proestrus. Inhibin's effects are most severe on FSH cells, which suggests that it may either selectively affect FSH synthesis and stores in bihormonal gonadotropes and/or affect monohormonal FSH cells. Thus, mechanisms behind its inhibitory effects include 1) a reduction in the percentage of Bio-GnRH target cells, 2) a reduction in the area of Bio-GnRH-binding sites on individual cells, and 3) a reduction in the stores of FSH and the percentages of FSH cells. These last effects are consistent with known reductions in FSH synthesis. The effects of inhibin on LH secretion may be secondary to the effects on Bio-GnRH receptors in bihormonal gonadotropes.
Nitric oxide (NO) is now recognized as a diffusible messenger molecule that normally augments intercellular communication in the central nervous system, but is neurotoxic if released in excessive amounts. NO is synthesized from L-arginine by the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent neuronal isoform NO synthase (NOS) localized in sub-populations of neurons throughout the brain, including the hypothalamus. In the hypothalamus, NO stimulates the release of GnRH, the primary neurohormone governing reproduction in mammals. Although the excitatory amino acid, glutamate, acting through the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor is believed to be responsible for stimulation of NO release, the neuronal system(s) that inhibits NO efflux is unknown. As the endogenous opioids, primarily beta-endorphin (betaEND), exert a tonic restraint on GnRH secretion, we sought evidence for a possible functional link between betaEND and NOS pathways in the hypothalamus. We observed that restraining the opioid influence with the opiate receptor antagonist, naloxone, in intact, but not in castrated, rats rapidly augmented extracellular cGMP/NO efflux in the medial preoptic area, where GnRH, NOS, and betaEND immunoreactive pathways are coextensive. Pituitary LH secretion increased in conjunction with this augmented cGMP/NO response and pretreatment with the mu opiate receptor agonist, morphine, suppressed these naloxone-induced responses. Further, visualization of hypothalamic sections immunostained for both betaEND and NOS revealed betaEND-immunoreactive axon terminals in close proximity to NOS-positive cell bodies and dendrites in a number of hypothalamic subdivisions, including the medial preoptic area. These close appositions represented conventional synapses between betaEND nerve terminals and NOS-positive perikarya and dendrites under the electron microscope. Clearly, the experimental data, corroborated by morphological evidence, point to a direct inhibitory control of betaEND on NOS-immunoreactive neurons in monitoring cGMP/NO release. These findings together with the previous observations that the glutamate neurotransmitter acting through NMDA receptors located on NOS-immunopositive cells stimulates cGMP/NO efflux and plasma LH selectively in intact rats document the existence of a dual control comprised of the excitatory NMDA and the inhibitory mu opiate receptors in modulating cGMP/NO release, a response also directed by gonadal steroids. This new knowledge of an inhibitory opioid influence on cGMP/NO release is probably extremely important both in the generation of periodicities in GnRH secretion that underlie hypothalamic control of reproduction and in protecting against neurotoxic overstimulation of NO release by excitatory amino acids.
The Stroke Belt in the United States lies in the Southeastern region where stroke mortality has been higher than in other geographic regions. The U.S. (African-American) black population has a higher stroke incidence and mortality rate than the US white population. This article reviews the English-language literature relating to observed regional and ethnic differences in stroke mortality, incidence, and risk factors. In addition, possible explanations for regional and ethnic differentials are explored. The significance of these regional and ethnic differences, and directions for future research, are examined.
Research on the association of the ribonucleoprotein enzyme, telomerase, with human cancer has expanded rapidly in recent years. Essentially all major types of cancer have been screened and the presence of telomerase activity has been detected in the vast majority of cases. In this article we provide a summary, in table form, of the current data.
The ends of vertebrate chromosome are composed of large tracts of a repeated sequence, TTAGGG, which are known as telomeres. Normal somatic cells progressively lose telomeric repeats with each successive cell division due to incomplete replication. Immortal and cancer cells compensate for telomeric loss by expressing the enzyme telomerase, an RNA-dependent DNA polymerase that maintains telomere length. Telomerase activity has been detected in almost 90% of all human cancers. Telomerase activity is generally absent in normal somatic tissues but is detected in adult testes, activated lymphocytes, and lower levels are expressed in proliferative cells of renewal tissues. Telomerase activity is downregulated in cells that exit the cell cycle via either terminal differentiation or (reversible) quiescence. Inhibition of telomerase activity in tumour cells may provide an effective way to treat cancer by potentially reducing the recurrence of tumours due to occult micro-metastases. An understanding of the pathways involved in telomerase regulation will be important for determining the most practical means of inhibiting its activity.

Presynaptic modulation of sensory afferent transmission during rhythmic motor activity was investigated in the lamprey spinal cord in vitro. Intracellular recordings were performed from the somata and axons of the glutamatergic sensory neurons from the skin (dorsal cells) during locomotor activity induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). Dorsal cells were phasically depolarized during each ipsilateral ventral root burst. In some soma recordings no or only small amplitude depolarizations were seen, although intracellular recording of their axons revealed the existence of large depolarizations, suggesting that the input synapses are located on the axons. The amplitude of the depolarizations increased during intracellular injection of hyperpolarizing current. The amplitude of the depolarizations increased when the frequency of the locomotor rhythm was increased by elevating the NMDA concentration. The depolarizations were not blocked by specific GABA(A) (bicuculline) or GABA(B) (phaclofen and saclofen) antagonists. To investigate whether the phasic depolarization may influence the monosynaptic excitatory transmission to giant interneurons, the amplitude of the monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) was compared between the onset of the ipsilateral locomotor burst and the burst mid-point. The compound monosynaptic EPSP evoked from dorsal column was significantly smaller during the peak depolarization than at burst onset. The reduction of the amplitude of the EPSPs was not associated with any change of the membrane potential or input resistance of the giant interneurons, suggesting that this effect is mediated by a presynaptic mechanism. Phase-dependent effects were also seen on burst and cycle duration following dorsal column stimulation. Thus, the locomotor-related depolarizations in dorsal cell axons may represent a mechanism for a phasic gain control of sensory transmission during fictive locomotion.
Amblyopia is used as a comprehensive term for unexplained reduction of visual acuity, usually unilateral. As long as the visual deficit is monocular the visual loss is more of a potential problem than an actual handicap. Amblyopia is one of the most common causes of visual deficit in childhood, and since it is treatable, at least in children, considerable efforts have been made to detect it as early in life as possible. Screening programmes for amblyopia among preschool and school children have been widely organized throughout the world, although questions remain about their utility. This study evaluated amblyopia screening, focussing on some essential points that need thorough consideration before a screening programme is started. We also try to demonstrate some of the pros and cons of a screening system.

In area 17 of the awake macaque, disinhibition by blockade of GABA(A) receptors results in a marked elevation in neuronal excitability, with a particular focus in the supragranular laminae. We examined the possibility that the excitatory supragranular response is N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-mediated. Laminar activity profiles consisting of flash-evoked field potential, current source density (CSD) and multiunit activity (MUA) measures were obtained during striate cortex penetrations using multicontact electrodes that incorporated single or double microinjection cannulae. Profiles were recorded before and at successive time points after bicuculline induction of disinhibition. Both the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist MK-801 and the competitive antagonist APV reversed bicuculline effects, producing a normal laminar activity profile. NMDA-mediated enhancement of excitatory responses in the supragranular laminae of neocortex is believed to play a role in normal signal processing, as well as in epileptic manifestations.
We explored the constitutive expression, maturational regulation, and relation to kainic-acid-induced apoptosis of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 mRNA in rat brain. In adult rats, COX-2 mRNA was expressed primarily in limbic structures. Constitutive COX-2 mRNA expression increased markedly between Postnatal Day 7 (P7) and P14, reaching adult levels by P21. Despite intense KA-induced seizures, no COX-2 mRNA induction was found before P14 in any brain region examined. During response to KA-induced seizures in adult brain, COX-2 mRNA induction paralleled temporally and overlapped anatomically the appearance of cellular morphological features of apoptosis in subsets of cells of the pyramidal neuron layer of the hippocampal formation, amygdaloid complex, and pyriform cortex. While COX-2 mRNA showed KA-induced elevation in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus, no detectable morphological features of apoptosis were found in this region. Finally, monotypic culture of rat corticohippocampal neurons confirmed the neuronal expression of COX-2 in vitro and revealed that COX-2 is induced during response to glutamate treatment, leading to neuron death. These studies may provide novel insights into the role of COX-2 and mechanisms of action of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in Alzheimer's disease.
Over the last decade the increasing availability of metabolically- stable non-peptide antagonists targeted at neuropeptide receptors has led directly to a more thorough understanding of the role of neuropeptides in mammalian physiology. By far the majority of these non-peptide neuropeptide receptor antagonists thus far disclosed have been developed from leads identified from broad screening of company compound files or natural product collections, and may thus bear little obvious structural resemblance to the endogenous peptide ligand. This review will focus on an alternative structure-based approach to non-peptide neuropeptide receptor ligand design, referred to as the 'peptoid' drug design strategy, in which an appreciation of the structure of the neuropeptide is the key to the success of this approach. The development and current clinical progress of peptoid cholecystokinin and tachykinin receptor ligands that have thus far resulted from this process will be highlighted and used to exemplify the importance of this novel approach.
1. A putative agonist for the strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor picolinic acid was tested for its anticonvulsant activities in mice and muscle-relaxant activities in rats and compared with indole-2-carboxylic acid (I2CA), an antagonist for the strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor. Their effects on segmental reflexes in the cat spinal cord were examined to elucidate their sites of action. 2. Picolinic acid (200 and 400 mg/kg IP) delayed the onsets of strychnine- but not pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures. It delayed the onsets of bicuculline-induced seizures only at the higher dose. I2CA (200 and 400 mg/kg IP) delayed the onsets of these 3 kinds of seizures. Both compounds reduced muscle tone in rat decerebrate rigidity at a dose of 100 mg/kg IV. 3. Picolinate methylester, a picolinate derivative with higher lipophilicity, depressed spinal reflexes in both intact and spinalized cats at cumulative doses of 25 to 200 mg/kg IV. I2CA (50 mg/kg IV) inhibited spinal reflexes only in intact preparations. 4. These results suggest that the anticonvulsant and muscle-relaxant activities of picolinic acid (PA) are due to inhibition of spinal neurons, but that I2CA selectively affects supraspinal structures.
We investigated the nature of cGMP-synthesizing cells in the developing rat forebrain using cGMP-immunocytochemistry in combination with in vitro incubation of brain slices. When brain slices of immature rats, aged between 1 and 4 weeks, were incubated with sodium nitroprusside (SNP), a nitric oxide (NO) donor compound, in the presence of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX), small round cells with a few processes in and around the corpus callosum were visualized with the cGMP-antibody. The morphology and the distribution of the cGMP-positive cells were consistent with the criteria for oligodendrocytes. Furthermore, the cGMP-positive cells expressed 2'3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNPase) and gelsolin, which are marker proteins for oligodendrocytes. Therefore, we concluded that the cGMP-positive cells were oligodendrocytes. A subpopulation of the oligodendrocyte was found to be cGMP-immunoreactive also when slices were incubated in the absence of SNP. Furthermore, incubation of the slice in the presence of L-NAME, an inhibitor of NO synthase, but in the absence of SNP abolished cGMP immunostaining. In addition, some populations of neurons and astrocytes in restricted brain areas produced cGMP in response to the incubation with SNP as previously reported, whereas both ameboid and ramified microglial cells did not respond to the treatment. Atrial natriuretic peptide, a stimulator of particulate guanylyl cyclase, enhanced cGMP synthesis in astrocytes in some brain regions but not in oligodendrocytes. These findings indicate that oligodendrocytes in the immature rat brain express soluble guanylyl cyclase. No cGMP-positive oligodendrocytes were found in the mature rat brain, suggesting that cGMP may mediate signals related to myelinogenesis in the rat brain.
Twelve senior Kundalini (Chakra) meditators were assessed during meditation session and non-meditation or control session using Phenomenology of Consciousness Inventory. The data has been analyzed using structural analysis to measure the altered state of consciousness and the identity state by comparing meditative state with non-meditative state. The structural analysis of pattern of consciousness during the meditative state revealed altered experience in perception (percentile rank PR = 90), meaning (PR = 82) and time sense (PR = 87), while positive affect dimension showed increased joy (PR = 73) and love (PR = 67). The imagery vividness (PR = 72), self-awareness (PR = 77), rationality (PR = 73) and arousal (PR = 69) were found to be structurally different from the ordinary state. With regards to identity state meditative experience was found to produce statistically significant changes in terms of intensity in meaning (P &lt; 0.05), time sense (P &lt; 0.05), joy (P &lt; 0.05), love (P &lt; 0.05) and state of awareness (P &lt; 0.01). Our results indicate that long term practice of meditation appears to produce structural as well as intensity changes in phenomenological experiences of consciousness.

A case of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is presented in which the chief symptom was obsessive musical imagery. Such musical obsessions are not described in standard texts of psychiatry or phenomenology, or in articles on OCD; nor are they considered in diagnostic procedures for OCD. Either the symptom is rare, or it is unnoticed because of low clinical awareness.

Der f 1, the group I allergen in Dermatophagoides farinae extracts, is a major source of inhalation allergens in Japan. Using the mixture of a panel of overlapping synthetic peptides that spread over the entire Der f 1 molecule, we found that polyclonal Der f 1-specific short-term T cell lines prepared from peripheral blood of 6 individuals allergic to Der f who carry most of the common HLA haplotypes seen in the Japanese population can respond to 16 different peptides. Eight of 16 peptides stimulated T cells of more than 2 donors, regardless of the HLA types. Proliferative responses of four T cell lines were markedly inhibited by mAb HU4 (anti-HLA-DRB1+B5), one was inhibited partially by HU11 (anti-HLA-DQ4+5+6), and one was inhibited fully by a combination of HU4, L243 (anti-HLA-DRB1+B4) and PLM16 (anti-HLA-DRB3) but only partially by each of these mAbs. One of these T cell lines, DT, of which the proliferative response was partially inhibited by HU11, was cloned. Indeed, the T cell clones were restricted by DQ6 molecules on an HLA-DRB1*1501-DRB5*0101-DQA1*0102-DQB1*0602 haplotype. These results indicate that patients' T cells recognize Der f 1 in association mainly with HLA-DRA/DRB1, but that DQAI/DQB1, DRA/DRB3 and possibly DRA/DRB4 gene products also function as antigen-presenting molecules. Thus, although some peptides have a more potent T cell-stimulatory activity than others, the T cell receptor ligands formed with the Der f 1 molecule are highly heterogeneous.


In the present study, unexpected, task-irrelevant, visual stimuli (probes) were presented against the background of one of two visual tasks. Subjects either performed an easy (low task load) or hard (high task load) visual task. During task performance probes were presented consisting of standard (80%), slightly deviating (deviants, 10%) and highly deviating stimuli (rares, 10%). The rare stimuli induced both a frontal (peak latency 448 ms) and a parietal P3 (peak latency 502 ms). The latter P3 was smaller during the high load condition, but in contrast, the frontal P3 was not influenced by task-load. The results of the present study suggest that the frontal and the parietal P3 are generated by two different neural sources, of which only the latter is capacity-limited.
A follow-up study on EEG coherence values was carried out with 46 school-age children divided into three pedagogical groups considering their reading and writing abilities (normal subject and children with mild and with serious reading-writing problems). EEGs were recorded at rest, with eyes closed in 15 referential derivations that gave 105 possible coherence values. Coherence was calculated after the elimination of the average reference. Repeated Measure ANOVAs were calculated to evaluate the effects of time, sex, reading-writing problems and their interactions. The second EEG recordings were taken 2-3 years after the first. The results revealed significant increase of coherence values during the time lapse studied, consisting of an increase of frontal coherences in all bands, with the exception of the theta band. The most numerous changes occurred in the alpha band. Very few differences in coherence values were observed between the two EEG recordings by pedagogical groups and by sex suggesting a similar but not igual maturation of coherences of boys and girls and of the three pedagogical groups, in this age range studied. These findings suggests an abnormal coherence development for the reading disabled group, as well as different coherence maturation for boys and girls in this time lapse studied.
Psychiatric nurses in the United Kingdom (UK) have begun to reattend to people with 'serious and enduring mental illness'. At the same time research in the USA and UK has refocused much of its attention on neuroscientific theories and models of serious mental illness. Psychiatric nurses are being encouraged to consider the value of biomedical explanations of serious illness, such as schizophrenia, and to accommodate these theories and models in the practice of nursing. This paper will examine the challenge of the biomedical approach for the continued development of psychiatric nursing theory and practice. It is proposed that psychiatric nursing needs to develop further its own 'proper focus', if it is to survive as a key player in the health care field on the 21st century.
The Trembler-J (TrJ) mouse has a point mutation in the gene coding for peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22). Disturbances in PMP22 are associated with abnormal myelination in a range of inherited peripheral neuropathies both in mice and humans. PMP22 is produced mainly by Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system where it is localised to compact myelin. The function of PMP22 is unclear but its low abundance (approximately 5% of total myelin protein) means that it is unlikely to play a structural role. Its inclusion in a recently discovered family of proteins suggests a function in cell proliferation/differentiation and possibly in adhesion. Nerves from TrJ and the allelic Trembler (Tr) mouse are characterised by abnormally thin myelin for the size of the axon and an increased number of Schwann cells. We report ultrastructural evidence of abnormal Schwann cell-axon interactions. Schwann cell nuclei have been found adjacent to the nodes of Ranvier whereas in normal animals they are located near the centre of the internodes. In some fibres the terminal myelin loops faced outwards into the extracellular space instead of turning inwards and terminating on the axon. In severely affected nerves many axons were only partially surrounded by Schwann cell cytoplasm. All these features suggest a failure of Schwann cell-axon recognition or interaction. In addition to abnormalities related to abnormal myelination there was significant axonal loss in the dorsal roots.

Numerous toxins are known to interfere with mitochondrial respiratory chain functions. Use has been made of these in the development of pesticides and herbicides, and accidental use in man has led to the development of animal models for human disease. The propensity for mitochondrial toxins to induce neuronal cell death may well reflect not only their metabolic pathways but also the sensitivity of neurons to inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation. Thus, the accidental exposure of humans to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine and to 3-nitropropionic acid had led to primate models of Parkinson's disease and Huntington's Disease, respectively. These models were made all the more remarkable when identical biochemical deficiencies were identified in relevant areas of human suffering from the respective idiopathic diseases. The place of complex I deficiency in Parkinson's disease remains undetermined, but there is recent evidence to suggest that, in some cases at least, it may play a primary role. The complex II/III deficiency in Huntington's disease is likely to be secondary and induced by other pathogenetic factors. The potential to intervene in the cascade of reactions involving mitochondrial dysfunction and cell death offers prospects for the development of new treatment strategies either for neuroprotection in prophylaxis or rescue.
As the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, cytochrome c oxidase plays a vital role in cellular energy transformation. Human cytochrome c oxidase is composed of 13 subunits. The three major subunits form the catalytic core and are encoded by mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). The remaining subunits are nuclear-encoded. The primary sequence is known for all human subunits and the crystal structure of bovine heart cytochrome c oxidase has recently been reported. However, despite this wealth of structural information, the role of the nuclear encoded subunits is still poorly understood. Yeast cytochrome c oxidase is a close model of its human counterpart and provides a means of studying the effects of mutations on the assembly, structure, stability and function of the enzyme complex. Defects in cytochrome c oxidase function are found in a clinically heterogeneous group of disorders. The molecular defects that underlie these diseases may arise from mutations of either mitochondrial or the nuclear genomes or both. A significant number of cytochrome c oxidase deficiencies, often associated with other respiratory chain enzyme defects, are attributed to mutations of mtDNA. Mutations of mtDNA appear, nonetheless, uncommon in early childhood. Pedigree analysis and cell fusion experiments have demonstrated a nuclear involvement in some infantile cases but a specific genomic lesion has not yet been reported. Detailed analyses of the many steps involved in the biogenesis of cytochrome c oxidase, often pioneered in yeast, offer several starting points for further molecular characterizations of cytochrome c oxidase deficiencies observed in clinical practice.
In old age, the circadian timing system loses optimal functioning. This process is even accelerated in Alzheimer's disease. Because pharmacological treatment of day-night rhythm disturbances usually is not very effective and may have considerable side effects, nonpharmacological treatments deserve attention. Bright light therapy has been shown to be effective. It is known from animal studies that increased activity, or an associated process, also strongly affects the circadian timing system, and the present study addresses the question of whether an increased level of physical activity may improve circadian rhythms in elderly. In the study, 10 healthy elderly males were admitted to a fitness training program for 3 months. The circadian rest-activity rhythm was assessed by means of actigraphy before and after the training period and again 1 year after discontinuation. As a control for possible seasonal effects, repeated actigraphic recordings were performed during the same times of the year as were the pre and post measurements in a control group of 8 healthy elderly males. Fitness training induced a significant reduction in the fragmentation of the rest-activity rhythm. Moreover, the fragmentation of the rhythm was negatively correlated with the level of fitness achieved after the training. No seasonal effect was found. Previous findings in human and animal studies are reviewed, and several possible mechanisms involved in the effect of fitness training on circadian rhythms are discussed. The results suggest that fitness training may be helpful in elderly people suffering from sleep problems related to circadian rhythm disturbances.
The cellular and molecular mechanisms of hypoxic/ischemic neurodegeneration are sensitive to numerous factors that modulate the time course and degree of neuronal death. Among such factors is hypothermia, which can dramatically protect neurons from injury. To examine and control for temperature-dependent effects, we developed a technique that provides for a high-throughput, accurate, and reproducible determination of the time course and degree of neurotoxicity in cultured cortical neurons at precisely defined temperatures. We used a fluorescence multiwell plate scanner, modified by us to permit the control of temperature, to perform serial quantitative measurements of propidium iodide (PI) fluorescence in cortical neuronal cultures exposed to excitotoxic insults. In validating this approach, we show that these time course measurements correlate highly with manual counts of PI-stained cells in the same cultures (r = 0.958, p &lt; 0.0001) and with lactate dehydrogenase release (r = 0.964, p &lt; 0.0001). This method represents an efficient approach to mechanistic and quantitative studies of cell death as well as a high-throughput technique for screening new neuroprotective therapies in vitro.
The purpose of this investigation was to assess the toxicity and activity of chronic oral etoposide in the management of children with recurrent juvenile pilocytic cerebellar astrocytomas. Twelve children with recurrent juvenile pilocytic cerebellar astrocytomas, refractory to surgical resection, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy were treated with chronic oral etoposide. Treatment related complications included alopecia, diarrhea, weight loss, and thrombocytopenia. Three children required transfusion and one child developed neutropenic fever. No treatment related deaths occurred. Six children demonstrated either a radiographic response or stable disease with a median duration of 7 months. Oral etoposide was well tolerated, produced modest toxicity, and had apparent activity in this small cohort of children with recurrent juvenile pilocytic cerebellar astrocytomas.
The diagnostic utility of the Fuld cholinergic deficit profile (Fuld, 1984) to dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) was evaluated on the Japanese version of the WAIS-R. Profiles were calculated for groups of subjects with DAT(n = 236), vascular dementia (n = 29), frontotemporal dementia (n = 22), and hydrocephalic dementia (n = 10). The frequency of positive profile occurrence for the subject groups was as follows: 23/236 for DAT (9.7%), 2/29 (6.9%) for vascular dementia, 2/22 (9.1%) for frontotemporal dementia, and 2/10 (20%) for hydrocephalic dementia. No significant difference in the frequency of positive profile occurrence was revealed across four types of dementia. We conclude from these findings that the Fuld profile lacks the diagnostic utility on the Japanese WAIS-R.
Longitudinal changes in global cognitive functioning, indexed by the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), in subjects with dementia (Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia) were examined. The roles of several demographic, psychometric, and biological indices in predicting cognitive deterioration were also examined. The sample consisted of 36 very old (M age at entry = 83.0 years, range = 75-95) adults with dementia from a community-based study. Subjects were tested on two occasions separated by approximately 2.5 years. Results indicated significant longitudinal decline in MMSE scores over the retest interval; the average decline was estimated as 2.43 (SD = 1.81) points per year. Several factors were associated with cognitive deterioration. Higher initial MMSE scores were associated with greater deterioration, whereas superior forward digit span and Block Design at entry were associated with attenuated decline, once differences in baseline severity were accounted for. By contrast, a variety of other putatively important variables exhibited no relationship to decline, including age, gender, education, onset age, dementia type, backward digit span, as well as a number of biological parameters (e.g., vitamin B12, folic acid). The results suggest that although the magnitude of cognitive deterioration in dementia is highly variable, several indicators may be useful predictors of future changes in cognitive functioning.
This study was designed to further investigate the role of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and globus pallidus internus (GPi) in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease. The prevailing theory about the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) predicts that there is overactivity of the subthalamo-pallidal pathway. In order to inactivate that pathway, naive and hemiparkinsonian monkeys were locally administered either muscimol (to reversibly inactivate the contralateral STN) or kynurenic acid (to reduce glutamatergic activity in the contralateral GPi). Three naive and 2 hemiparkinsonian monkeys were studied. Intra-carotid MPTP was administered to produce 2 hemiparkinsonian monkeys. Injection sites of muscimol and kynurenic acid in the brain were confirmed electrophysiologically and histologically. Injections of muscimol into the STN in naive and hemiparkinsonian monkeys caused reversible contralateral dystonia, but did not alleviate Parkinsonism. Only one kynurenic acid injection into GPi partially alleviated Parkinsonism. On the basis of the results in this study, aspects of the currently accepted hypothesis of the pathophysiology of PD cannot be confirmed. However, this study reports that the STN has an important role in the production of dystonia. This experimental model of dystonia will prove suitable for further study of both the mechanisms causing dystonia as well as for possible therapeutic approaches to its treatment.
Twenty-one patients with long standing unexplained ptosis (3), chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO, 16) or Kearns-Sayre syndrome (KSS, 2) were studied for the presence of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deletions and the major disease-associated mtDNA point mutations with the aim of correlating mitochondrial genetic abnormalities with pathogenesis in these patients. Only 52% were found to have a deletion; of these, 82% harboured the 'common deletion'. Two of 2 KSS patients and 9 of 16 CPEO patients were deletion positive. None of the 3 patients with bilateral ptosis only had a deletion. Of those patients with ragged red fibres (RRF) on histology, 69% had a deletion. No disease associated mtDNA point mutation was observed with the exception of the nucleotide (nt) 11084 A-G mutation associated with mitochondrial encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) in a patient also harbouring the common deletion. The role of deletions in CPEO patients is discussed.
Development of neuroprotective strategies for the treatment of cerebral ischaemia depends upon knowledge of the pathophysiological responses which occur during the period of ischaemia and during reperfusion. Both in vitro and in vivo studies have been used to accumulate this base of knowledge; a brief examination of the results from the two approaches reveal that they are in general agreement and often provide complementary information. Ischaemia in the absence of reperfusion can lead to neuronal death from protein degradation and DNA breakup. Resupply of blood permits increased free radical attack but energy supply can still be limited as the cerebral circulation reacts to release of cicosanoids, and DNA repair utilizes ATP.
Twenty-two patients affected by bipolar or schizoaffective disorder, in whom carbamazepine was added to lithium after recurrence when on maintenance with lithium alone, were followed up prospectively for 2 to 13 years. The number of episodes, hospitalizations, and cumulative affective morbidity was markedly reduced after carbamazepine augmentation. Seventeen patients presented a better course during combined treatment than during lithium alone, and of these 15 had no further recurrences. Four patients did not appear to improve after carbamazepine augmentation, whereas one featured reemergence of affective episodes after having derived satisfactory benefit from combination for 7 years (delayed tolerance). Carbamazepine augmentation was associated with a reduction of lithium doses in some patients, including a subgroup who had not tolerated lithium at usual therapeutic levels. Carbamazepine significantly reduced serum thyrotropin concentrations, which were abnormally high in approximately one half of patients when on lithium alone. Total serum thyroxine concentrations were also decreased after carbamazepine augmentation, but free thyroid hormone concentrations did not change. Other significant carbamazepine-induced changes in laboratory tests included increases in total cholesterol concentrations and decreases in white blood cell counts.
Global precedence was examined in 8 baboons and 14 humans using compound stimuli presented in the left visual hemifield (LVF) or the right visual hemifield (RVF). Humans showed a global advantage and global-to-local interference. Baboons showed a local advantage and no interference. For humans and baboons, a LVF advantage appeared for global matching and an unsignificant RVF advantage appeared for local matching. The local advantage in baboons still emerged when the memory load of the task was removed and when the local elements were connected by lines or were adjacent. Moreover, global precedence in humans persisted with unfamiliar forms. Species differences suggest that global precedence is not a universal trait and that this effect in humans does not have a purely perceptual or sensory basis.
Female rats at various stages of pregnancy were injected intraperitoneally with [3H]water; 4 h later, they were killed, the uterus was removed, and the fetuses were dissected. Lipids were isolated and fractionated by HPLC and the total amount of cholesterol in each organ, as well as radioactivity incorporated into cholesterol and cholesterol precursors, were determined. From the data for cholesterol content at each age we calculated the rate of accumulation of cholesterol during fetal development. As incorporation of label from [3H]water takes place with a stoichiometry defined by a known biosynthetic pathway, we were also able to determine the fraction of cholesterol accumulating in each organ that had been newly synthesized. For the fetus as a whole, more than 93% of the cholesterol accumulating during development was newly synthesized. As the specific radioactivity of cholesterol in the maternal circulation was negligible (because synthesis of cholesterol by maternal liver was suppressed by inclusion of cholesterol in the diet), we conclude that the fetus synthesizes nearly all of its own cholesterol; neither the maternal circulation nor the placenta/yolk sac contribute significant amounts of cholesterol to the fetus. We were also able to quantitate trafficking of cholesterol between fetal organs. Fetal brain is responsible for the synthesis of all of its own cholesterol. In contrast, fetal liver exports cholesterol into the fetal circulation and supplies about half of the cholesterol for development of heart, lung, and kidney.
A gas chromatographic (GC)/mass spectrometric method for studying myo-inositol uptake by neurons in vitro is described. Cultured cortical neurons from fetuses of diploid and trisomy 16 mouse (animal model for Down syndrome) were incubated with a physiological concentration of hexadeuterated myo-inositol for 2-40 min. Washed cells were lysed and scyllo-inositol (internal standard) was added to the intracellular material which contained labeled myo-inositol taken up by the cells as well as the endogenous, unlabeled myo-inositol. The samples were evaporated to dryness and the analytes were converted into acetate derivatives. The components were separated by capillary GC, and the m/z 379 ion for labeled myo-inositol and the m/z 373 ion for myo-inositol and scyllo-inositol generated by chemical ionization in an ion trap mass spectrometer were monitored. Quantitation of the deuterium-labeled myo-inositol taken up by the neuron along with endogenous myo-inositol was achieved for 2-40 min of incubation. The labeled myo-inositol uptake was linear for up to 20 min and was Na+ dependent in these neurons. This non-radioisotope method was used to demonstrate a significant (40%) increase in the rate of myo-inositol uptake by cortical neurons from the trisomy 16 mouse relative to control neurons. An increased myo-inositol uptake is consistent with evidence that the myo-inositol transporter gene is on both human chromosome 21 and mouse chromosome 16, and that myo-inositol concentrations are elevated in cerebrospinal fluid from adult Down syndrome individuals and brains from the fetal trisomy 16 mouse.
