Lacosamide (LCM) is an antiepileptic drug (AED) that has demonstrated a good efficacy in controlling seizures as an add-on in adult epilepsy. To date, there have been no studies on LCM in patients with brain tumor-related epilepsy (BTRE). To evaluate efficacy and tolerability of LCM as an add-on in BTRE, we followed 14 patients suffering from BTRE who had already been treated with other AEDs and who had not experienced adequate seizure control. Eleven patients underwent chemotherapy while being treated with LCM. Mean duration of follow up was 5.4 months (min &lt; 1 max 10 months). Mean seizure number in the last month prior to the introduction of LCM had been 15.4. At last follow-up, the mean seizure number was reduced to 1.9/month. Lacosamide mean dosage was of 332.1 mg/day (min 100 max 400 mg/day). Responder rate was 78.6%. One patient discontinued LCM because of side-effects. There were no other reported side-effects. Preliminary data on the use of LCM in add-on in patients with BTRE indicate that this drug may represent a valid alternative as an add-on in this particular patient population. However, larger samples are necessary in order to draw definitive conclusions.
Mutations in the presenilin 2 (PSEN2) gene are less commonly identified as genetic causes of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease than mutations in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and the presenilin 1 (PSEN1) genes. In fact, only 23 different mutations in the PSEN2 gene have been described in the literature. This paper deals with a sporadic case of a 55 year-old subject bearing an amino acid substitution from arginine to tryptophan at codon 71 of PSEN2 and presenting a peculiar early-onset Alzheimer's disease phenotype.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) are commonly observed during long-term treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). The impact of non-pharmacological factors on the latency to LID appearance is not known. The aim of the paper was to identify factors associated with time to appearance of LID. Consecutive PD patients treated with levodopa (n = 155) were included in this historical prospective analysis and LID and non-LID groups were compared. The relationship between possible risk factors and the time of LID onset was explored using the Kaplan-Meier method and the Cox multivariate regression model, controlling for the confounding effects of gender, age of disease onset, time to initiation of levodopa treatment, and history of smoking. Patients with LID (57.4%) were significantly younger at disease onset and had a slightly longer latency from diagnosis to levodopa treatment than those without; disease duration and age had no effect on LID appearance. Female gender was associated with a shorter time to LID and the median time to LID was 6 years for males and 4 years for females (p = 0.004). In the multivariate survival analysis a younger age of onset of PD and a longer time from diagnosis to levodopa treatment initiation were also associated with a shorter time to LID appearance (p = 0.030 and 0.036, respectively). Female gender is associated with a significantly shorter latency to LID appearance. Younger age at PD diagnosis and a longer time until starting levodopa are associated with both higher likelihood to develop LID, and a shorter latency until LID were observed.
The aim of this study was to characterise the white matter damage involved in idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (INPH) using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and the relationship between this damage and clinical presentation. Twenty patients with INPH, 20 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 20 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (as disease control groups) were enrolled in this study. Mean diffusivity (MD) and fractional anisotropy (FA) were determined using DTI, and these measures were analysed to compare the INPH group with the control groups and with certain clinical correlates. On average, the supratentorial white matter presented higher MD and lower FA in the INPH group than in the control groups. In the INPH group, the mean hemispheric FA correlated with some of the clinical measures, whereas the mean hemispheric MD did not. On a voxel-based statistical map, white matter involvement with high MD was localised to the periventricular regions, and white matter involvement with low FA was localised to the corpus callosum and the subcortical regions. The total scores on the Frontal Assessment Battery were correlated with the FA in the frontal and parietal subcortical white matter, and an index of gait disturbance was correlated with the FA in the anterior limb of the left internal capsule and under the left supplementary motor area. DTI revealed the presence of white matter involvement in INPH. Whereas white matter regions with high MD were not related to symptom manifestation, those with low FA were related to motor and cognitive dysfunction in INPH.
The spinal cord can be affected by multiple heterogeneous disorders often difficult to diagnose. We describe ten patients affected by a progressive ascending myelopathy with a poor prognosis. The patients, during the follow-up period, underwent neurological examinations, cerebrospinal fluid analysis, hematological, microbiological, auto-antibodies screening, brain and spinal cord magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and electroneurophysiological study. At disease onset spinal cord MRI showed 1 myelopathic lesions extended for &lt;2 segments and then evidenced a progressive spinal cord atrophy without any new lesion. All patients showed an increase of the visual evoked potential P100 latency. All of them showed two or more clinical recurrences of myelitis and then, after a period ranging from 3 to 5 years from the disease onset, a progressive course. Five patients became unresponsive to intravenous high-dose steroid treatments and/or intravenous immunoglobulins and to any other therapeutic attempts, developed a progressive ascending myelopathy to tetraplegia and died from respiratory failure. The other five patients are in progressive phase of the disease with an initial involvement of the upper limbs and show mild cervical spinal cord atrophy at MRI, configuring the early stage of an ascending progressive myelopathy. In our opinion, the more suitable diagnosis is an atypical form of MS although is not possible to exclude a new nosological entity that could be included in the expanding range of spinal cord diseases.
To assess the neuropsychological bases of deception in a case of pathological lying. Pathological lying describes a clinical picture in which an individual repeatedly and apparently compulsively tells false stories. Developmental studies and neuroimaging studies suggested that executive functions and Theory of Mind are necessary for deception and that a dysfunctional prefrontal cortex may be involved in pathological lying. A patient presenting a pattern of behavioral alterations, including pathological lying, underwent a neurological, neuroradiological, neuropsychiatric, and neuropsychological examination. Psychopathological symptoms and cognitive deficits (executive functions and Theory of Mind) were suggestive of a behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD), while the lack of prefrontal hypometabolism was suggestive of a bvFTD phenocopy syndrome. This first observation of pathological lying as a symptom of bvFTD contributes to characterize its spectrum of psychopathological features. Moreover, this clinical case contributed to describe the possible neurocognitive deficits involved in the development of pathological lying. Further studies are needed to investigate how a prefrontal impairment affecting executive functions and Theory of Mind may cause a susceptibility to pathological lying.

A case is described of a patient who presented almost simultaneously the impression that his left arm was amputated and the feeling of the presence of his invisible Doppelgnger. While these body scheme disorders have both been described after (right) parietal lesions, a right frontal opercular ischaemic stroke was found in the neurological work up. Diffusion tensor imaging showed that the stroke involved the ventral bundle of the superior longitudinal fasciculus that connects the parietal to the frontal lobe. The unusual clinical presentation of this frontal lesion may have been due to a 'diaschisis'-like phenomenon via the superior longitudinal fasciculus.
There is increasing evidence that deficient clearance of -amyloid (A) contributes to its accumulation in late-onset Alzheimer disease (AD). Several A-degrading enzymes, including neprilysin (NEP), insulin-degrading enzyme, and endothelin-converting enzyme reduce A levels and protect against cognitive impairment in mouse models of AD. The activity of several A-degrading enzymes rises with age and increases still further in AD, perhaps as a physiological response to minimize the buildup of A. The age- and disease-related changes in expression of more recently recognized A-degrading enzymes (e.g. NEP-2 and cathepsin B) remain to be investigated, and there is strong evidence that reduced NEP activity contributes to the development of cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Regardless of the role of A-degrading enzymes in the development of AD, experimental data indicate that increasing the activity of these enzymes (NEP in particular) has therapeutic potential in AD, although targeting their delivery to the brain remains a major challenge. The most promising current approaches include the peripheral administration of agents that enhance the activity of A-degrading enzymes and the direct intracerebral delivery of NEP by convection-enhanced delivery. In the longer term, genetic approaches to increasing the intracerebral expression of NEP or other A-degrading enzymes may offer advantages.
Pain-related hyperactivity in the amygdala leads to deactivation of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and decision-making deficits. The mechanisms of pain-related inhibition of the mPFC are not yet known. Here, we used extracellular single-unit recordings of prelimbic mPFC neurons to determine the role of GABA(A) receptors and metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) subtypes, mGluR1 and mGluR5, in pain-related activity changes of mPFC neurons. Background and evoked activity of mPFC neurons decreased after arthritis induction. To determine pain-related changes, the same neuron was recorded continuously before and after induction of arthritis in one knee joint by intra-articular injection of kaolin/carrageenan. Stereotaxic administration of a GABA(A) receptor antagonist {[R-(R*,S*)]-5-(6,8-dihydro-8-oxofuro[3,4-e]-1,3-benzodioxol-6-yl)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-6,6-dimethyl-1,3-dioxolo[4,5-g]isoquinolinium iodide (bicuculline)} into the mPFC by microdialysis reversed pain-related inhibition, whereas offsite injections into the adjacent anterior cingulate cortex had no or opposite effects on prelimbic mPFC neurons. A selective mGluR1/5 agonist [(S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG)] inhibited background and evoked activity under normal conditions through a GABAergic mechanism, because the inhibitory effect was blocked with bicuculline. In the arthritis pain state, DHPG, alone or in the presence of bicuculline, had no effect. Consistent with the involvement of mGluR1 in pain-related inhibition of the mPFC, a selective mGluR1 antagonist [(S)-(+)--amino-4-carboxy-2-methylbenzeneacetic acid] reversed the pain-related decrease of background and evoked activity of mPFC neurons in arthritis, whereas a selective mGluR5 antagonist [2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine hydrochloride] had no effect. The mGluR antagonists had no effect under normal conditions. We interpret our data to suggest that pain-related inhibition of mPFC neurons in the arthritis model depends on mGluR1-mediated endogenous activation of GABA(A) receptors. Exogenous activation of mGluR1/5 produces GABAergic inhibition under normal conditions. Restoring normal activity in the mPFC may be a therapeutic strategy to improve cognitive deficits associated with persistent pain.
Somatosensory signals undergo substantial modulation in the dorsal column nuclei. We examined transmission of signals from forelimb afferents in primate cuneate and external cuneate nuclei. In anesthetized macaque monkeys, the median, ulnar, deep radial, and superficial radial nerves were electrically stimulated at 1.5-2 motor threshold with independent Poisson trains whereas extracellular recordings were made from 317 cells. Responses to peripheral stimulation included instances of both brief facilitation and long lasting suppression. A high proportion of cells (87%) responded to stimulation of two or more peripheral nerves, suggesting a large amount of convergence. Facilitated cells showed coherence with the peripheral stimulation across a broad frequency range; coherence was especially high in cells that responded with a burst of action potentials. Cells that responded with suppression also showed significant coherence, but this fell rapidly for frequencies above 25 Hz. Similar results were seen in both the main and external cuneate. When stimulation of one nerve was conditioned by a preceding nerve stimulus, the response to the second stimulus was attenuated for around 40 ms. This occurred independently of whether the first stimulus produced an initial facilitation or suppression or whether the same or a different nerve served as a conditioning stimulus. Mechanical stimulation of a receptive field suppressed responses to a second identical mechanical stimulus over a similar timescale. We conclude that the primate cuneate nucleus is capable of transmitting temporal information about stimuli with high fidelity; stimuli interact both temporally and spatially to modulate the onward transmission of information.
Everyday movements often have multiple solutions. Many of these solutions arise from biomechanical redundancies. Often, however, the goal does not require a unique movement. To examine how people exploit task-related redundancy, we observed as participants produced three-dimensional (3-D) reaching movements, moving to one of two rectangular targets that were diagonally oriented in the frontal (x, y) plane. On most trials, the movement was perturbed by a vertical, velocity-dependent force. Since participants were free to move in 3-D space, online corrections could involve movement along the perturbed, vertical dimension, as well as the nonperturbed, horizontal dimension. If the motor system exploits task redundancies, then corrections along the horizontal dimension should depend on the orientation of the target. Consistent with this prediction, participants modified both the horizontal and vertical coordinates of the trajectory over the course of learning, and the horizontal component was sensitive to the orientation of the target. Furthermore, participants produced online corrections with a horizontal component that brought the hand closer to the target. These results suggest that we not only correct for mismatches between expected and experienced forces but also exploit task-specific redundancies to efficiently improve performance.
Despite decades of research devoted to the study of inferior colliculus (IC) neurons' tuning to sound-source azimuth, there remain many unanswered questions because no previous study has examined azimuth tuning over a full range of 360 azimuths at a wide range of stimulus levels in an unanesthetized preparation. Furthermore, a comparison of azimuth tuning to binaural and contralateral ear stimulation over ranges of full azimuths and widely varying stimulus levels has not previously been reported. To fill this void, we have conducted a study of azimuth tuning in the IC of the unanesthetized rabbit over a 300 range of azimuths at stimulus levels of 10-50 dB above neural threshold to both binaural and contralateral ear stimulation using virtual auditory space stimuli. This study provides systematic evidence for neural coding of azimuth. We found the following: 1) level-tolerant azimuth tuning was observed in the top 35% regarding vector strength and in the top 15% regarding vector angle of IC neurons; 2) preserved azimuth tuning to binaural stimulation at high stimulus levels was created as a consequence of binaural facilitation in the contralateral sound field and binaural suppression in the ipsilateral sound field; 3) the direction of azimuth tuning to binaural stimulation was primarily in the contralateral sound field, and its center shifted laterally toward -90 with increasing stimulus level; 4) at 10 dB, azimuth tuning to binaural and contralateral stimulation was similar, indicating that it was mediated by monaural mechanisms; and 5) at higher stimulus levels, azimuth tuning to contralateral ear stimulation was severely degraded. These findings form a foundation for understanding neural mechanisms of localizing sound-source azimuth.
The lateral superior olive (LSO) integrates excitatory inputs driven by sound arriving at the ipsilateral ear with inhibitory inputs driven by sound arriving at the contralateral ear in order to compute interaural intensity differences needed for localizing high-frequency sound sources. Specific mechanisms necessary for developmental refinement of the inhibitory projection, which arises from the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB), have only been partially deciphered. The demonstration that immature MNTB-LSO synapses release glutamate has led to a model in which early glutamate neurotransmission plays a major role in inhibitory plasticity. We used whole cell electrophysiology in acute auditory brain stem slices of neonatal rats to examine glutamatergic transmission in the developing MNTB-LSO pathway. Unexpectedly, AMPA receptor (AMPAR)-mediated responses were prevalent at the earliest ages. We found a salient developmental profile for NMDA receptor (NMDAR) activation, described both by the proportion of total glutamate current and by current durations, and we found evidence for distinct release probabilities for GABA/glycine and glutamate in the MNTB-LSO pathway. The developmental profile of NMDAR is consistent with the possibility that the inhibitory MNTB-LSO pathway experiences a sensitive period, driven by cochlear activity and mediated by GluN2B-containing NMDARs, between postnatal days 3 and 9. Differing neurotransmitter release probabilities could allow the synapse to switch between GABA/glycinergic transmission and mixed glutamate/GABA/glycinergic transmission in response to changing patterns of spiking activity.
Motor and sensory proprioceptive axons reinnervate muscles after peripheral nerve transections followed by microsurgical reattachment; nevertheless, motor coordination remains abnormal and stretch reflexes absent. We analyzed the possibility that permanent losses of central IA afferent synapses, as a consequence of peripheral nerve injury, are responsible for this deficit. VGLUT1 was used as a marker of proprioceptive synapses on rat motoneurons. After nerve injuries synapses are stripped from motoneurons, but while other excitatory and inhibitory inputs eventually recover, VGLUT1 synapses are permanently lost on the cell body (75-95% synaptic losses) and on the proximal 100 m of dendrite (50% loss). Lost VGLUT1 synapses did not recover, even many months after muscle reinnervation. Interestingly, VGLUT1 density in more distal dendrites did not change. To investigate whether losses are due to VGLUT1 downregulation in injured IA afferents or to complete synaptic disassembly and regression of IA ventral projections, we studied the central trajectories and synaptic varicosities of axon collaterals from control and regenerated afferents with IA-like responses to stretch that were intracellularly filled with neurobiotin. VGLUT1 was present in all synaptic varicosities, identified with the synaptic marker SV2, of control and regenerated afferents. However, regenerated afferents lacked axon collaterals and synapses in lamina IX. In conjunction with the companion electrophysiological study [Bullinger KL, Nardelli P, Pinter MJ, Alvarez FJ, Cope TC. J Neurophysiol (August 10, 2011). doi:10.1152/jn.01097.2010], we conclude that peripheral nerve injuries cause a permanent retraction of IA afferent synaptic varicosities from lamina IX and disconnection with motoneurons that is not recovered after peripheral regeneration and reinnervation of muscle by sensory and motor axons.
Regeneration of a cut muscle nerve fails to restore the stretch reflex, and the companion paper to this article [Alvarez FJ, Titus-Mitchell HE, Bullinger KL, Kraszpulski M, Nardelli P, Cope TC. J Neurophysiol (August 10, 2011). doi:10.1152/jn.01095.2010] suggests an important central contribution from substantial and persistent disassembly of synapses between regenerated primary afferents and motoneurons. In the present study we tested for physiological correlates of synaptic disruption. Anesthetized adult rats were studied 6 mo or more after a muscle nerve was severed and surgically rejoined. We recorded action potentials (spikes) from individual muscle afferents classified as IA like (*IA) by several criteria and tested for their capacity to produce excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in homonymous motoneurons, using spike-triggered averaging (STA). Nearly every paired recording from a *IA afferent and homonymous motoneuron (93%) produced a STA EPSP in normal rats, but that percentage was only 17% in rats with regenerated nerves. In addition, the number of motoneurons that produced aggregate excitatory stretch synaptic potentials (eSSPs) in response to stretch of the reinnervated muscle was reduced from 100% normally to 60% after nerve regeneration. The decline in functional connectivity was not attributable to synaptic depression, which returned to its normally low level after regeneration. From these findings and those in the companion paper, we put forward a model in which synaptic excitation of motoneurons by muscle stretch is reduced not only by misguided axon regeneration that reconnects afferents to the wrong receptor type but also by retraction of synapses with motoneurons by spindle afferents that successfully reconnect with spindle receptors in the periphery.
Frequency modulation (FM) is computed from the temporal sequence of activated auditory nerve fibers representing different frequencies. Most studies in the inferior colliculus (IC) have inferred from extracellular recordings that the precise timing of nonselective inputs creates selectivity for FM direction and velocity (Andoni S, Li N, Pollak GD. J Neurosci 27: 4882-4893, 2007; Fuzessery ZM, Richardson MD, Coburn MS. J Neurophysiol 96: 1320-1336, 2006; Gordon M, O'Neill WE. Hear Res 122: 97-108, 1998). We recently reported that two additional mechanisms were more important than input timing for directional selectivity in some IC cells: spike threshold and inputs that were already selective (Gittelman JX, Li N, Pollak GD. J Neurosci 29: 13030-13041, 2009). Here, we show that these same mechanisms, selective inputs and spike threshold, underlie selectivity for FM velocity and intensity. From whole cell recordings in awake bats, we recorded spikes and postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) evoked by downward and upward FMs that swept identical frequencies at different velocities and intensities. To determine the synaptic mechanisms underlying PSP selectivity (relative PSP height), we derived sweep-evoked synaptic conductances. Changing FM velocity or intensity changed conductance timing and size. Modeling indicated that excitatory conductance size contributed more to PSP selectivity than conductance timing, indicating that the number of afferent spikes carried more FM information to the IC than precise spike timing. However, excitation alone produced mostly suprathreshold PSPs. Inhibition reduced absolute PSP heights, without necessarily altering PSP selectivity, thereby rendering some PSPs subthreshold. Spike threshold then sharpened selectivity in the spikes by rectifying the smaller PSPs. This indicates the importance of spike threshold, and that inhibition enhances selectivity via a different mechanism than previously proposed.
Despite their presence throughout the central nervous system, the impact of axonally expressed gamma-amino-butyric acid type-A receptors (GABA(A)Rs) on neuronal signaling is just beginning to be understood. A recently published article (Pugh JR and Jahr CE, J Neurosci 31: 565-574, 2011) tackled this important issue by investigating GABA(A)R-mediated function in axons of cerebellar granule cells. The results of Pugh and Jahr indicate parallel fiber GABA(A)Rs enhance neurotransmitter release probability and boost axonal and somatic excitability.
The balance of inhibitory to excitatory (I/E) synaptic inputs is thought to control information processing and behavioral output of the central nervous system. We sought to test the effects of the decreased or increased I/E ratio on visual circuit function and visually guided behavior in Xenopus tadpoles. We selectively decreased inhibitory synaptic transmission in optic tectal neurons by knocking down the 2 subunit of the GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)R) using antisense morpholino oligonucleotides or by expressing a peptide corresponding to an intracellular loop of the 2 subunit, called ICL, which interferes with anchoring GABA(A)R at synapses. Recordings of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) and miniature excitatory PSCs (mEPSCs) showed that these treatments decreased the frequency of mIPSCs compared with control tectal neurons without affecting mEPSC frequency, resulting in an 50% decrease in the ratio of I/E synaptic input. ICL expression and 2-subunit knockdown also decreased the ratio of optic nerve-evoked synaptic I/E responses. We recorded visually evoked responses from optic tectal neurons, in which the synaptic I/E ratio was decreased. Decreasing the synaptic I/E ratio in tectal neurons increased the variance of first spike latency in response to full-field visual stimulation, increased recurrent activity in the tectal circuit, enlarged spatial receptive fields, and lengthened the temporal integration window. We used the benzodiazepine, diazepam (DZ), to increase inhibitory synaptic activity. DZ increased optic nerve-evoked inhibitory transmission but did not affect evoked excitatory currents, resulting in an increase in the I/E ratio of 30%. Increasing the I/E ratio with DZ decreased the variance of first spike latency, decreased spatial receptive field size, and lengthened temporal receptive fields. Sequential recordings of spikes and excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs to the same visual stimuli demonstrated that decreasing or increasing the I/E ratio disrupted input/output relations. We assessed the effect of an altered I/E ratio on a visually guided behavior that requires the optic tectum. Increasing and decreasing I/E in tectal neurons blocked the tectally mediated visual avoidance behavior. Because ICL expression, 2-subunit knockdown, and DZ did not directly affect excitatory synaptic transmission, we interpret the results of our study as evidence that partially decreasing or increasing the ratio of I/E disrupts several measures of visual system information processing and visually guided behavior in an intact vertebrate.
Encoding of movement kinematics in Purkinje cell simple spike discharge has important implications for hypotheses of cerebellar cortical function. Several outstanding questions remain regarding representation of these kinematic signals. It is uncertain whether kinematic encoding occurs in unpredictable, feedback-dependent tasks or kinematic signals are conserved across tasks. Additionally, there is a need to understand the signals encoded in the instantaneous discharge of single cells without averaging across trials or time. To address these questions, this study recorded Purkinje cell firing in monkeys trained to perform a manual random tracking task in addition to circular tracking and center-out reach. Random tracking provides for extensive coverage of kinematic workspaces. Direction and speed errors are significantly greater during random than circular tracking. Cross-correlation analyses comparing hand and target velocity profiles show that hand velocity lags target velocity during random tracking. Correlations between simple spike firing from 120 Purkinje cells and hand position, velocity, and speed were evaluated with linear regression models including a time constant, , as a measure of the firing lead/lag relative to the kinematic parameters. Across the population, velocity accounts for the majority of simple spike firing variability (63  30% of R(adj)(2)), followed by position (28  24% of R(adj)(2)) and speed (11  19% of R(adj)(2)). Simple spike firing often leads hand kinematics. Comparison of regression models based on averaged vs. nonaveraged firing and kinematics reveals lower R(adj)(2) values for nonaveraged data; however, regression coefficients and  values are highly similar. Finally, for most cells, model coefficients generated from random tracking accurately estimate simple spike firing in either circular tracking or center-out reach. These findings imply that the cerebellum controls movement kinematics, consistent with a forward internal model that predicts upcoming limb kinematics.
Central pattern generators (CPGs) pace and pattern many rhythmic activities. We have uncovered a new module in the heartbeat CPG of leeches that creates a regional difference in this segmentally distributed motor pattern. The core CPG consists of seven identified pairs and one unidentified pair of heart interneurons of which 5 pairs are premotor and inhibit 16 pairs of heart motor neurons. The heartbeat CPG produces a side-to-side asymmetric pattern of activity of the premotor heart interneurons corresponding to an asymmetric fictive motor pattern and an asymmetric constriction pattern of the hearts with regular switches between the two sides. The premotor pattern progresses from rear to front on one side and nearly synchronously on the other; the motor pattern shows corresponding intersegmental coordination, but only from segment 15 forward. In the rearmost segments the fictive motor pattern and the constriction pattern progress from front to rear on both sides and converge in phase. Modeling studies suggested that the known inhibitory inputs to the rearmost heart motor neurons were insufficient to account for this activity. We therefore reexamined the constriction pattern of intact leeches. We also identified electrophysiologically two additional pairs of heart interneurons in the rear. These new heart interneurons make inhibitory connections with the rear heart motor neurons, are coordinated with the core heartbeat CPG, and are dye-coupled to their contralateral homologs. Their strong inhibitory connections with the rearmost heart motor neurons and the small side-to-side phase difference of their bursting contribute to the different motor and beating pattern observed in the animal's rear.
A natural visual scene contains more information than the visual system has the capacity to simultaneously process, requiring specific items to be selected for detailed analysis at the expense of others. Such selection and inhibition are fundamental in guiding search behavior, but the neural basis of these mechanisms remains unclear. Abruptly appearing visual items can automatically capture attention, but once attention has been directed away from the salient event, return to that same location is slowed. In non-human primates, signals associated with attentional capture (AC) and subsequent inhibition of return (IOR) have been recorded from the superior colliculus (SC)--a structure known to play a pivotal role in reflexive spatial orienting. Here, we sought to establish whether similar signals could be recorded from the human SC, as well as early retinotopic cortical visual areas, where signals associated with AC and IOR have yet to be investigated with respect to oculomotor responses. Using an optimized oculomotor paradigm together with high-field, high-spatial resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging and high-speed eye tracking, we demonstrate that BOLD signal changes recorded from the human SC correlate strongly with our saccadic measures of AC and IOR. A qualitatively similar pattern of responses was found for V1, but only the inhibitory response associated with IOR persisted through V2 and V3. Although the SC plays a role in mediating these automatic attentional biasing signals, the source of these signals is likely to lie in higher cortical areas.
The hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system displays significant plasticity when subjected to physiological stimuli, such as dehydration, parturition, or lactation. This plasticity arises at the neurochemical and electrophysiological levels but also at a structural level. Several studies have demonstrated the role of monoaminergic afferents in controlling neurochemical and electrophysiological plasticity of the supraoptic nucleus (SON) and of the neurohypophysis (NH), but little is known about how the changes in structural plasticity are triggered. We used Tg8 mice, disrupted for the monoamine oxidase A gene, to study monamine involvement in the architecture of the SON and of the NH. SON astrocytes in Tg8 mice displayed an active status, characterized by an increase in S100 expression and a significant decrease in vimentin expression, with no modification in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) levels. Astrocytes showed a decrease in glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) levels, whereas glutamine synthetase (GS) levels remained constant, suggesting a reduction in astrocyte glutamate catabolism. Tenascin C and polysialic acid-neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) expressions were also elevated in the SON of Tg8 mice, suggesting an increased capacity for structural remodelling in the SON. In the NH, similar date were obtained with a stability in GFAP expression and an increase in PSA-NCAM immunostaining. These results establish monoamine (serotonin and noradrenaline) involvement in SON and NH structural arrangement. Monoamines therefore appear to be crucial for the coordination of the neurochemical and structural aspects of neuroendocrine plasticity, allowing the hypothalamo-neurohypopyseal system to respond appropriately when stimulated.
Neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) are characterized by the loss of neurotrophic factors, and experimental therapeutical approaches to AD have investigated the efficacy of replacing or augmenting neurotrophic factor activity. Cerebrolysin, a peptide mixture with neurotrophic-like effects, has been shown to improve cognition in patients with AD and to reduce synaptic and behavioral deficits in transgenic (tg) mice overexpressing the amyloid precursor protein (APP). However, it is unclear how long-lasting the beneficial effects of Cerebrolysin are and whether or not behavioral and neuropathological alterations will reappear following treatment interruption. The objective of the present study was to investigate the consequences of interrupting Cerebrolysin treatment (washout effect) 3 and 6 months after the completion of a 3-month treatment period in APP tg mice. We demonstrate that, in APP tg mice, Cerebrolysin-induced amelioration of memory deficits in the water maze and reduction of neurodegenerative pathology persist for 3 months after treatment interruption; however, these effects dissipate 6 months following treatment termination. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that the decrease in neocortical and hippocampal amyloid plaque load observed in Cerebrolysin-treated APP tg mice immediately after treatment was no longer apparent at 3 months after treatment interruption, indicating that the beneficial effects of Cerebrolysin at this time point were independent of its effect on amyloid- deposition. In conclusion, the results demonstrate that the effects of Cerebrolysin persist for a significant period of time following treatment termination and suggest that this prolonged effect may involve the neurotrophic factor-like activity of Cerebrolysin.
Chiari malformation Type I (CM-I) is usually suspected in patients with slowly progressing neurological symptoms. However, in some instances, especially if syringomyelia is associated, an abrupt clinical onset is reported and is accompanied by an acknowledged risk of potentially severe clinical signs or even sudden death. Little is known about such a critical course in CM-I/syringomyelia complex. The authors describe 3 challenging cases of the abrupt onset of CM-I/syringomyelia to reveal more information on the clinical presentation and pathogenetic mechanisms of this sudden and potentially severe clinical phenomenon: a 38-year-old man experienced acute respiratory failure requiring intubation following acute decompensation of hydrocephalus associated with Noonan syndrome, a 1-year-old boy had sudden hemiparesis and Horner syndrome after a minor head/neck injury, and a 2.5-year-old boy presented with quickly progressing tetraplegia and dyspnea after a mild flexion and extension neck injury a few hours before. All 3 patients showed a CM-I/syringomyelia complex at diagnosis, and all of them had a good neurological outcome after surgery despite the ominous clinical presentation.

Most research on self-presentation has examined how people convey images of themselves on only 1 or 2 dimensions at a time. In everyday interactions, however, people often manage their impressions on several image-relevant dimensions simultaneously. By examining people's self-presentations to several targets across multiple dimensions, these 2 studies offer new insights into the nature of self-presentation and provide a novel paradigm for studying impression management. Results showed that most people rely on a relatively small number of basic self-presentational personas in which they convey particular profiles of impressions as a set and that these personas reflect both normative influences to project images that are appropriate to a particular target and distinctive influences by which people put an idiosyncratic spin on these normative images. Furthermore, although people's self-presentational profiles correlate moderately with their self-views, they tailor their public images to specific targets. The degree to which participants' self-presentations were normative and distinctive, as well as the extent to which they reflected their own self-views, were moderated by individual differences in agreeableness, self-esteem, authenticity, and Machiavellianism.
The metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGlu5) is a glutamate-activated class C G protein-coupled receptor widely expressed in the central nervous system and clinically investigated as a drug target for a range of indications, including depression, Parkinson's disease, and fragile X syndrome. Here, we present the novel potent, selective, and orally bioavailable mGlu5 negative allosteric modulator with inverse agonist properties 2-chloro-4-((2,5-dimethyl-1-(4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenyl)-1H-imidazol-4-yl)ethynyl)pyridine (CTEP). CTEP binds mGlu5 with low nanomolar affinity and shows &gt;1000-fold selectivity when tested against 103 targets, including all known mGlu receptors. CTEP penetrates the brain with a brain/plasma ratio of 2.6 and displaces the tracer [(3)H]3-(6-methyl-pyridin-2-ylethynyl)-cyclohex-2-enone-O-methyl-oxime (ABP688) in vivo in mice from brain regions expressing mGlu5 with an average ED(50) equivalent to a drug concentration of 77.5 ng/g in brain tissue. This novel mGlu5 inhibitor is active in the stress-induced hyperthermia procedure in mice and the Vogel conflict drinking test in rats with minimal effective doses of 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg, respectively, reflecting a 30- to 100-fold higher in vivo potency compared with 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP) and fenobam. CTEP is the first reported mGlu5 inhibitor with both long half-life of approximately 18 h and high oral bioavailability allowing chronic treatment with continuous receptor blockade with one dose every 48 h in adult and newborn animals. By enabling long-term treatment through a wide age range, CTEP allows the exploration of the full therapeutic potential of mGlu5 inhibitors for indications requiring chronic receptor inhibition.
2-Methyl-N-((2'-(pyrrolidin-1-ylsulfonyl)biphenyl-4-yl)methyl)propan-1-amine (PF-04455242) is a novel -opioid receptor (KOR) antagonist with high affinity for human (3 nM), rat (21 nM), and mouse (22 nM) KOR, a  20-fold reduced affinity for human -opioid receptors (MORs; K(i) = 64 nM), and negligible affinity for -opioid receptors (K(i) &gt; 4 M). PF-04455242 also showed selectivity for KORs in vivo. In rats, PF-04455242 blocked KOR and MOR agonist-induced analgesia with ID(50) values of 1.5 and 9.8 mg/kg, respectively, and inhibited ex vivo [(3)H](2-(benzofuran-4-yl)-N-methyl-N-((5S,7R,8R)-7-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)-1-oxaspiro[4.5]decan-8-yl)acetamide ([(3)H]CI977) and [(3)H](2S)-2-[[2-[[(2R)-2-[[(2S)-2-amino-3-(4-hydroxyphenyl) propanoyl]amino]propanoyl]amino]acetyl]-methylamino]-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-3-phenylpropanamide ([(3)H]DAMGO) binding to KOR and MOR receptors with ID(50) values of 2.0 and 8.6 mg/kg, respectively. An in vivo binding assay was developed using (-)-4-[(3)H]methoxycarbonyl-2-[(1-pyrrolidinylmethyl]-1-[(3,4-dichlorophenyl)acetyl]-piperidine ([(3)H]PF-04767135), a tritiated version of the KOR positron emission tomography ligand (-)-4-[(11)C]methoxycarbonyl-2-[(1-pyrrolidinylmethyl]-1-[(3,4-dichlorophenyl)acetyl]-piperidine ([(11)C]GR103545) in which PF-04455242 had an ID(50) of 5.2 mg/kg. PF-04455242 demonstrated antidepressant-like efficacy (mouse forced-swim test), attenuated the behavioral effects of stress (mouse social defeat stress assay), and showed therapeutic potential in treating reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior (mouse conditioned place preference). KOR agonist-induced plasma prolactin was investigated as a translatable mechanism biomarker. Spiradoline (0.32 mg/kg) significantly increased rat plasma prolactin levels from 1.9  0.4 to 41.9  4.9 ng/ml. PF-04455242 dose-dependently reduced the elevation of spiradoline-induced plasma prolactin with an ID(50) of 2.3  0.1 mg/kg, which aligned well with the ED(50) values obtained from the rat in vivo binding and efficacy assays. These data provide further evidence that KOR antagonists have potential for the treatment of depression and addiction disorders.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are widely distributed throughout the mammalian central and peripheral nervous systems, where they contribute to neuronal excitability and synaptic communication. It has been reported that nAChRs are modulated by BK channels and that BK channels, in turn, are inhibited by acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs). Here we investigate the possible functional interaction between these channels in medial habenula (MHb) neurones. We report that selective antagonists of large-conductance calcium-activated potassium channels and ASIC1a channels, paxilline and psalmotoxin 1, respectively, did not induce detectable changes in nicotine-evoked currents. In contrast, the non-selective ASIC and Na(+)-H(+) exchanger (NHE1) antagonists, amiloride and its analogues, suppressed nicotine-evoked responses in MHb neurones of wild-type and ASIC2 null mice, excluding a possible involvement of ASIC2 in the nAChR inhibition by amiloride. Zoniporide, a more selective inhibitor of NHE1, reversibly inhibited 34-, 7- and 4-containing (*) nAChRs in Xenopus oocytes and in brain slices, as well as in PS120 cells deficient in NHE1 and virally transduced with nAChRs, suggesting a generalized effect of zoniporide in most neuronal nAChR subtypes. Independently from nAChR antagonism, zoniporide profoundly blocked synaptic transmission onto MHb neurones without affecting glutamatergic and GABA receptors. Taken together, these results indicate that amiloride and zoniporide, which are clinically used to treat hypertension and cardiovascular disease, have an inhibitory effect on neuronal nAChRs when used experimentally at high doses. The possible cross-reactivity of these compounds with nAChRs in vivo will require further investigation.
Incubation of fear has been used to account for the delayed manifestation of symptoms of fear and anxiety including the delayed onset of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). We have shown the utility of classical conditioning-specific modification of the rabbit nictitating membrane response (NMR) as a model of PTSD. This modification includes an exaggeration in the size and a change in the timing of the unconditioned NMR after several days of classical conditioning. To assess the effects of incubation on conditioning-specific modification, we measured changes in responding as a function of the time between classical conditioning and NMR testing. After just one day of classical conditioning resulting in modest levels of learning, increases in response size were an inverted-U shaped function of days of incubation with little if any change occurring one and ten days after training but significant change occurring after six days. The incubation effect persisted for a week. An unpaired control group showed no change in the size of the response confirming the incubation effect was associative. The results bear a striking resemblance to symptoms of PTSD that do not always occur immediately after trauma and become exacerbated over time and then persist. They point to a window when incubation can exacerbate symptoms and speak to the vulnerability of re-experiencing trauma too soon. This could be a serious problem for military or emergency personnel recalled to combat or a disaster site without sufficient time to deal with the effects of their initial experiences.
Recent studies indicate a role of excessive interleukin-6 (IL-6) signaling in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. A previous study reported a significant association of schizophrenia with the IL-6 receptor (IL-6R) gene Asp358Ala polymorphism, which is known to regulate circulating IL-6 and soluble IL-6R (sIL-6R) levels in healthy subjects. To further examine the influence of the polymorphism in schizophrenic patients, we compared the plasma levels of IL-6 and sIL-6R between schizophrenic patients and healthy controls for each genotype of the Asp358Ala polymorphism. Asp358Ala genotyping and plasma IL-6 level measurements were performed in 104 patients with schizophrenia and 112 healthy controls. Of these participants, 53 schizophrenic patients and 49 controls were selected for the measurement of plasma sIL-6R levels. A two-way factorial analysis of covariance was performed with the transformed plasma levels as the dependent variable, diagnosis and genotype as independent variables, and sex and age as covariates. No significant diagnosisgenotype interaction was observed for IL-6 and sIL-6R levels. The Ala allele of Asp358Ala was significantly associated with higher levels of both IL-6 and sIL-6R. IL-6 levels were significantly elevated in schizophrenic patients compared to those in controls, whereas no significant difference in sIL-6R levels was observed between schizophrenic patients and controls. Our findings suggest that the presence of schizophrenia is associated with elevated IL-6 levels, whereas sIL-6R levels are mainly predetermined by the Asp358Ala genotype and are not associated with the disease status. Increased IL-6 levels without alterations in sIL-6R levels may result in excessive IL-6 signaling in schizophrenia.
Nicotine enhances attentional functions. Since chronic nicotine exposure through smoking induces neuroadaptive changes in the brain at a structural and molecular level, the present functional MRI (fMRI) study aimed at investigating the neural mechanisms underlying visuospatial and sustained attention in smokers and non-smokers. Visuospatial attention was assessed with a location-cueing paradigm, while sustained attention was measured by changes in response speed over time. During invalid trials, neural activity within the basal forebrain was selectively enhanced in smokers and higher basal forebrain activity was associated with increased parietal cortex activation. Moreover, higher levels of expired carbon monoxide in smokers before scanning were associated with higher parietal cortex activation and faster responses to invalidly cued targets. Smokers showed a slowing of responses and additionally recruited an area within the right supramarginal gyrus with increasing time on task. Activity decreases over time were observed in visual areas in smokers. The data provide evidence for altered attentional functions in smokers as compared with non-smokers, which were partly modulated by residual nicotine levels and were observed at a behavioural level for sustained and at a neural level for spatial and sustained attention.
Bilastine is a new second-generation H1 antagonist. Although bilastine has been demonstrated to produce little or no performance impairment in laboratory tests, it cannot be excluded that it produces impairments in real-life performance such as driving. This study aims to assess the effects of two doses of bilastine (20 and 40 mg) on actual driving after single and repeated administration. Hydroxyzine 50 mg was included as an active control. Twenty-two participants (11 females, 11 males) were tested in a placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind, four-way cross-over design. Participants were treated with once-daily doses for eight consecutive days. On day 1 and 8 of each treatment period participants performed an actual highway driving test. The primary variable was standard deviation of lateral position (SDLP), a measure of weaving. Results demonstrated that hydroxyzine significantly increased SDLP on days 1 and 8 of treatment. Bilastine did not affect SDLP. It is concluded that hydroxyzine produces severe driving impairment after single doses and that this impairment only partly mitigates over time due to a lack of complete tolerance. Bilastine did not produce any driving impairment after single and repeated doses and can be safely used in traffic in doses up to 40 mg.
The opioid system plays a crucial role in the neural modulation of anxiety. The involvement of opioid ligands and receptors in physiological and dysfunctional forms of anxiety is supported by findings from a wide range of preclinical and clinical studies, including clinical trials, experimental research, and neuroimaging, genetic, and epidemiological data. In this review we provide a summary of studies from a variety of research disciplines to elucidate the role of the opioid system in the neurobiology of anxiety. First, we report data from preclinical studies using animal models to examine the modulatory role of central opioid system on defensive responses conducive to fear and anxiety. Second, we summarize the human literature providing evidence that clinical and experimental human studies are consistent with preclinical models. The implication of these data is that activation of the opioid system leads to anxiolytic responses both in healthy subjects and in patients suffering from anxiety disorders. The role of opioids in suppressing anxiety may serve as an adaptive mechanism, collocated in the general framework of opioid neurotransmission blunting acute negative and distressing affective responses.



The aim of the present study was to identify factors associated with functional outcome, mortality, and symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (sICH) in patients from the Japan Alteplase Clinical Trial (J-ACT) data set with ischemic stroke treated with intravenous (IV) 0.6 mg/kg alteplase within 3 hours after onset. The patient sample comprised 103 patients from the J-ACT, a multicenter, single-dose, open-label cohort study conducted to verify the efficacy and safety of IV 0.6 mg/kg alteplase in treating acute hemispheric stroke. The effects of 21 patient baseline characteristics on a favorable outcome (as evaluated by modified Rankin scale [mRS] score of 0-1 after 3 months), death within 3 months, and incidence of sICH within 36 hours after the start of treatment were examined by univariate analysis and stepwise logistic regression analysis. The baseline characteristics associated with a favorable outcome in univariate analysis included age and National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score. The factors associated with death included age and the NIHSS score. No factors were significantly associated with sICH. In stepwise logistic regression analysis, age and NIHSS score significantly predicted both favorable outcome and death. No factors significantly predicted sICH. Age and baseline NIHSS score were independent predictors for both favorable outcome and death. Although these factors are consistent with those found to be predictors in studies on IV 0.9 mg/kg alteplase, there were no factors predicting outcomes specific for IV 0.6 mg/kg alteplase.





Development of advanced and high-throughput methods to study variability in human genes means we can now use pharmacogenomic analysis not only to predict response to treatment but also to assess the toxic action of drugs on normal cells (so-called toxicogenomics). This technological progress could enable us to identify individuals at high and low risk for a given side-effect. Pharmacogenomics could be very useful for stratification of cancer patients at risk of developing chemotherapy-induced peripheral neurotoxicity, one of the most severe and potentially permanent non-haematological side-effects of modern chemotherapeutic agents. However, study data reported so far are inconsistent, which suggests that methodological improvement is needed in clinical trials to obtain reliable results in this clinically relevant area.
Brain damage related to intrathecal methotrexate in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is still unclear. Neuroinflammatory mechanisms and intracerebral production of specific biomarkers, play a key role in determining neuroprotective mechanisms after brain injury. To determine whether the CSF concentrations of neuron-specific enolase (NSE), neurotrophic factors and doublecortin (DCX) are influenced by repeated intrathecal methotrexate administrations, we prospectively collected CSF samples from 10 children with ALL and 10 controls. Our results showed an increased expression of the liquoral markers. This up-regulation could be interpreted as a neuroprotective response of the brain against the neuronal damages induced by MTX.
This work utilises general numerical magnetic resonance imaging MRI simulations to predict the spatial specificity of the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) functional MRI (fMRI) signal. A Monte Carlo simulation approach was utilized on a microvascular structure consisting of randomly oriented cylinders representing blood vessels. This framework was employed to numerically investigate the spatial specificity, defined as ratio of pial vessel to microvascular signal, of the spin echo BOLD fMRI signal as a function of field strength, echo time and tissue types [grey matter (GM) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), respectively]. Spatial specificity of spin echo BOLD fMRI signal was determined to increase with field strength up to 16 T and with maximal specificity for echo time shorter than tissue T(2). In addition, it was found that, for large pial vessels, the extravascular signal decay could not be described using the oversimplified but nevertheless commonly employed mono-exponential signal decay approximation (MEA). Consequently, a recently proposed model relying on the MEA deviates substantially from our results on the spatial specificity. A refinement of this model is proposed based on an available, more detailed signal description. Finally, the effect of CSF on the spatial specificity was investigated. While a large spatial specificity of the spin echo BOLD fMRI signal is observed if a pial vessel is surrounded by grey matter, this is greatly reduced for a pial vessel situated on a GM/CSF interface, rendering the suppression of pial vessels on the cortex surface unlikely.
Double-wave-vector diffusion-weighting experiments can detect diffusion anisotropy on a microscopic level which, e.g., could distinguish lower fiber densities from reduced fiber coherence. The underlying signal difference between parallel and orthogonal wave vector orientations has been observed on vertical-bore MR systems (500 mT m(-1) ); however, numerical simulations reveal that it is expected to be considerably reduced for typical whole-body MR gradient pulse durations. Here, pig spinal cord tissue and a reference fluid phantom were investigated on a 3 T clinical MR system (40 mT m(-1) ). By averaging over different absolute wave vector orientations, signal variations caused by experimental imperfections like background gradient fields and eddy currents were minimized and a rotationally invariant anisotropy measure could be assessed. A significant microscopic anisotropy was observed in gray and white matter tissue even in the plane perpendicular to the cord which is consistent with previous vertical-bore experiments. Thus, it is demonstrated that double-wave-vector experiments can investigate the microscopic anisotropy on whole-body MR systems.
Spatially two-dimensional selective radio frequency (2DRF) excitations are able to excite arbitrarily-shaped profiles in their excitation plane and, hence, can be used to minimize partial volume effects in single-voxel magnetic resonance spectroscopy. In this study, 2DRF excitations based on the PROPELLER trajectory which consists of blades of parallel lines that are rotated against each other, are presented. Because the k-space center is covered with each segment, the trajectory yields a high signal efficiency which, e.g., is considerably improved compared to a segmented blipped-planar approach. It is shown that a sampling density correction based on the PROPELLER trajectory's Voronoi diagram suppresses unwanted side excitations. Off-resonance effects like chemical-shift displacement artifacts, can be minimized by applying nonselective refocusing radio frequency pulses between the lines of a blade. With half-Fourier segments, the 2DRF's echo time contribution can be shortened considerably. Thus, robust 2DRF excitations capable of exciting high-resolution profiles at short echo times with high signal efficiency are obtained. Their applicability to MR spectroscopy of an arbitrarily-shaped single voxel is demonstrated in a two-bottle phantom and in the human brain in vivo on a 3 T whole-body MR system.

There has been recent interest in using cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors in an effort to increase the efficacy of chemotherapy and/or radiation for treatment of malignant brain tumors. Although the mechanism is unclear, one result may be the accumulation of arachidonic acid (AA). AA is the key substrate for several biochemical pathways involved in the inflammatory cascade, including the cyclooxygenase (COX) enzymes. Cyclooxygenase-1 and cyclooxygenase-2 metabolize AA to produce prostaglandins and thromboxanes. Levels of these enzymes and their products are upregulated in gliomas, especially in malignant tumors. Likewise, the enzyme 5-lipoxygenase, also elevated in malignant gliomas, metabolizes AA to produce leukotrienes. Alternatively, enzymes of the cytochrome p450 family can metabolize AA to various products, some of which may aid glioma growth and angiogenesis. Unmetabolized AA activates the enzyme neutral sphingomyelinase, which produces ceramide, a second messenger and potent activator of apoptosis. It is hypothesized that simultaneous blockade of the COX, lipoxygenase, and/or cytochrome p450-mediated pathways would lead to greater accumulation of intracellular AA, resulting in elevated ceramide levels, thereby priming glioma cells for treatment-induced apoptotic cell death. Manipulation of AA/bioactive lipid metabolism, using readily available, well-tolerated medications may have the potential to increase the efficacy of currently used glioma treatments.
Neuroimaging allows to estimate brain activity when individuals are doing something. The location and intensity of this estimated activity provides information on the dynamics and processes that guide choice behaviour and associated actions that should be considered a complement to behavioural studies. Decision neuroscience therefore sheds new light on whether the brain evaluates and compares alternatives when decisions are made, or if other processes are at stake. This work helped to demonstrate that the situations faced by individuals (risky, uncertain, delayed in time) do not all have the same (behavioural) complexity, and are not underlined by activity in the cerebral networks. Taking into account brain dynamics of people (suffering from obesity or not) when making food consumption decisions might allow for improved strategies in public health prevention, far from the rational choice theory promoted by neoclassical economics.
Multitasking among three or more different tasks is a ubiquitous requirement of everyday cognition, yet rarely is it addressed in research on healthy adults who have had no specific training in multitasking skills. Participants completed a set of diverse subtasks within a simulated shopping mall and office environment, the Edinburgh Virtual Errands Test (EVET). The aim was to investigate how different cognitive functions, such as planning, retrospective and prospective memory, and visuospatial and verbal working memory, contribute to everyday multitasking. Subtasks were chosen to be diverse, and predictions were derived from a statistical model of everyday multitasking impairments associated with frontal-lobe lesions (Burgess, Veitch, de Lacy Costello, &amp; Shallice, 2000b). Multiple regression indicated significant independent contributions from measures of retrospective memory, visuospatial working memory, and online planning, but not from independent measures of prospective memory or verbal working memory. Structural equation modelling showed that the best fit to the data arose from three underlying constructs, with Memory and Planning having a weak link, but with both having a strong directional pathway to an Intent construct that reflected implementation of intentions. Participants who followed their preprepared plan achieved higher scores than those who altered their plan during multitask performance. This was true regardless of whether the plan was efficient or poor. These results substantially develop and extend the Burgess et al. (2000b) model to healthy adults and yield new insight into the poorly understood area of everyday multitasking. The findings also point to the utility of using virtual environments for investigating this form of complex human cognition.
There was a dearth in awareness and knowledge regarding pediatric delirium (PD) at the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU). The aim of this study is to highlight the most recent and up-to-date findings of current literature -by means of a systematic review (SR) method-, and to present the key issues and research questions. A SR of the literature published between 24 March 2009 and 10 March 2011. Eight new articles were identified which included (literature) reviews, journal commentaries, and observational studies. There still is a dearth of literature on PD, with also a variable level of evidence (1b - 5), especially in relation to critical illness. To be able to further clarify PD in the PICU, additional research questions are provided for future research.
The diagnosis of mitochondrial disorders is difficult due to clinical and genetic heterogeneity. Measurements of mitochondrial respiratory chain (RC) enzyme activities are essential for both clinical diagnoses and many basic research questions. Current protocols for RC analysis are not standardized, and so are prone to inter-laboratory variability, and also to biochemical interferences that lead to analytical discrepancies. Moreover, knowledge of the analytical performances of these assays, which is essential to draw meaningful conclusions from the results, is lacking. To understand this variability and to propose possible solutions, we systematically investigated the effect of different homogenization protocols and chemical conditions on RC assays using muscle homogenates. We developed optimized protocols and a novel complex III method with improved sensitivity, precision, and linearity. These methods can be reliably performed on minute muscle samples with a single-wavelength spectrophotometer. Moreover, we measured the variability of the proposed homogenization protocol and we provide a systematic evaluation of each assay's specificity, precision, and linearity. These data will be useful for quality control in both clinical and research laboratories.
Myosin X (MyoX) is an unconventional myosin that is known to induce the formation and elongation of filopodia in many cell types. MyoX-induced filopodial induction requires the three PH domains in its tail region, although with unknown underlying molecular mechanisms. MyoX's first PH domain is split into halves by its second PH domain. We show here that the PH1(N)-PH2-PH1(C) tandem allows MyoX to bind to phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-triphosphate [PI(3,4,5)P(3)] with high specificity and cooperativity. We further show that PH2 is responsible for the specificity of the PI(3,4,5)P(3) interaction, whereas PH1 functions to enhance the lipid membrane-binding avidity of the tandem. The structure of the MyoX PH1(N)-PH2-PH1(C) tandem reveals that the split PH1, PH2, and the highly conserved interdomain linker sequences together form a rigid supramodule with two lipid-binding pockets positioned side by side for binding to phosphoinositide membrane bilayers with cooperativity. Finally, we demonstrate that disruption of PH2-mediated binding to PI(3,4,5)P(3) abolishes MyoX's function in inducing filopodial formation and elongation.
Clustered protocadherins (Pcdhs) are arranged in gene clusters (, , and ) with variable and constant exons. Variable exons encode cadherin and transmembrane domains and ~90 cytoplasmic residues. The 14 Pcdh-s and 22 Pcdh-s are spliced to constant exons, which, for Pcdh-s, encode ~120 residues of an identical cytoplasmic moiety. Pcdh-s participate in cell-cell interactions but are prominently intracellular in vivo, and mice with disrupted Pcdh- genes exhibit increased neuronal cell death, suggesting nonconventional roles. Most attention in terms of Pcdh- intracellular interactions has focused on the constant domain. We show that the variable cytoplasmic domain (VCD) is required for trafficking and organelle tubulation in the endolysosome system. Deletion of the constant cytoplasmic domain preserved the late endosomal/lysosomal trafficking and organelle tubulation observed for the intact molecule, whereas deletion or excision of the VCD or replacement of the Pcdh-A3 cytoplasmic domain with that from Pcdh-1 or N-cadherin dramatically altered trafficking. Truncations or internal deletions within the VCD defined a 26-amino acid segment required for trafficking and tubulation in the endolysosomal pathway. This active VCD segment contains residues that are conserved in Pcdh-A and Pcdh-B subfamilies. Thus the VCDs of Pcdh-s mediate interactions critical for Pcdh- trafficking.
K(V)1.1 is a Shaker homologue K(+) channel that contributes to the juxta-paranodal membrane conductance in myelinated axons, and is blocked by fampridine (4-aminopyridine), used to treat the symptoms of multiple sclerosis. The present experiments investigate K(V)1.1 function in primary sensory neurons and A-fibres, and help define its characteristics as a drug-target using sequence specific small-interfering RNAs (siRNAs). siRNA (71nM) was used to knock-down functional expression of K(V)1.1 in sensory neurons (&gt;25m in apparent diameter) in culture, and was also delivered intrathecally in vivo (9.3g). K(+) channel knock-down in sensory neurons was found to make the voltage-threshold for action potential generation significantly more negative than in control (p=0.02), led to the breakdown of accommodation and promoted spontaneous action potential firing. Exposure to dendrotoxin-K (DTX-K, 10-100nM) also selectively abolished K(+) currents at negative potentials and made voltage-threshold more negative, consistent with K(V)1.1 controlling excitability close to the nominal resting potential of the neuron cell body, near -60mV. Introduction of one working siRNA sequence into the intrathecal space in vivo was associated with a small increase in the amplitude of the depolarising after-potential in sacral spinal roots (p&lt;0.02), suggesting a reduction in the number of working K(+) channels in internodal axon membrane. Our study provides evidence that K(V)1.1 contributes to the control of peripheral sensory nerve excitability, and suggests that its characteristics as a putative drug target can be assessed by siRNA transfection in primary sensory neurons in vitro and in vivo.

Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus is an effective treatment for advanced Parkinson's disease. The benefits of bilateral subthalamic stimulation are well documented, and some studies reported outcomes with a follow-up of 5 to 6 years; nevertheless, few data are available beyond 5 years. We report a long-term prospective evaluation of 14 consecutive parkinsonian patients, treated by bilateral subthalamic stimulation for at least 9 years. Motor symptoms, activity of daily living, and motor complications were evaluated by means of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, while cognition and mood were assessed with a specific neuropsychological test battery; medication intake, stimulation parameters, comorbidity, and adverse events were also recorded. Patients were evaluated before surgery and at 1, 5, and  9 years after surgery. At last follow-up, deep brain stimulation significantly improved the motor score by 42% compared to baseline, whereas activities of daily living were no longer improved; there was a 39% reduction in the dosage of dopaminergic drugs and a 59% improvement of L-dopa-related motor complications. The neuropsychological assessment showed that 4 patients (29%) developed a significant cognitive decline over the follow-up period. These results indicate a persistent effect of deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus on the cardinal motor symptoms in advanced Parkinson's disease patients in the long-term; however, a worsening of patients' disability, mainly due to disease progression, was observed.
Conversion disorder (CD) is characterized by unexplained neurological symptoms presumed related to psychological issues. The main hypotheses to explain conversion paralysis, characterized by a lack of movement, include impairments in either motor intention or disruption of motor execution, and further, that hyperactive self-monitoring, limbic processing or top-down regulation from higher order frontal regions may interfere with motor execution. We have recently shown that CD with positive abnormal or excessive motor symptoms was associated with greater amygdala activity to arousing stimuli along with greater functional connectivity between the amygdala and supplementary motor area. Here we studied patients with such symptoms focusing on motor initiation. Subjects performed either an internally or externally generated 2-button action selection task in a functional MRI study. Eleven CD patients without major depression and 11 age- and gender-matched normal volunteers were assessed. During both internally and externally generated movement, conversion disorder patients relative to normal volunteers had lower left supplementary motor area (SMA) (implicated in motor initiation) and higher right amygdala, left anterior insula, and bilateral posterior cingulate activity (implicated in assigning emotional salience). These findings were confirmed in a subgroup analysis of patients with tremor symptoms. During internally versus externally generated action in CD patients, the left SMA had lower functional connectivity with bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortices. We propose a theory in which previously mapped conversion motor representations may in an arousing context hijack the voluntary action selection system, which is both hypoactive and functionally disconnected from prefrontal top-down regulation.
Inpatient hospital encounters and emergency department visits were examined to identify cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).The ninth edition of the International Classification of Disease, clinical modification (ICD-9-CM) for ALS was confirmed for ALS was confirmed in 93% of inpatient discharges and in 91% of emergency department visits by the diagnostic standard (chart review). Yearly prevalence rates ranged from 2.94 to 3.28 per 100,000 residents. The low calculated prevalence rates suggest that this method of case identification is inadequate and must be combined with other data sets to maximize confirmation of the clinical diagnosis.


Although the molecular defect causing Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) has been identified, the biochemical mechanisms that lead to muscle necrosis remain unclear. Exercise-related muscle metabolism in 9 mildly affected BMD patients was assessed by muscle 31-phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((31)P MRS) during an incremental workload. Compared with normal controls, BMD patients showed deregulation of resting pH and intramuscular membrane breakdown. We also observed increased reliance upon anaerobic metabolism during sustained submaximal contraction and maintenance of oxidative function during recovery.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a genetically diverse disease. At least 15 ALS-associated gene loci have so far been identified, and the causative gene is known in approximately 30% of familial ALS cases. Less is known about the factors underlying the sporadic form of the disease. The molecular mechanisms of motor neuron degeneration are best understood in the subtype of disease caused by mutations in superoxide dismutase 1, with a current consensus that motor neuron injury is caused by a complex interplay between multiple pathogenic processes. A key recent finding is that mutated TAR DNA-binding protein 43 is a major constituent of the ubiquitinated protein inclusions in ALS, providing a possible link between the genetic mutation and the cellular pathology. New insights have also indicated the importance of dysregulated glial cell-motor neuron crosstalk, and have highlighted the vulnerability of the distal axonal compartment early in the disease course. In addition, recent studies have suggested that disordered RNA processing is likely to represent a major contributing factor to motor neuron disease. Ongoing research on the cellular pathways highlighted in this Review is predicted to open the door to new therapeutic interventions to slow disease progression in ALS.

Determining electrical activation of the heart in a noninvasive way is one of the challenges in cardiac electrophysiology. The ECG provides some, but limited information about the electrical status of the heart. This article describes a method to determine both endocardial and epicardial activation of the heart of an individual patient from 64 electrograms recorded from the body surface. Information obtained in this way might be helpful for the treatment of arrhythmias, to assess the effect of drugs on conduction in the heart and to assess electrical stability of the heart.
When a neuronal spike train is observed, what can we deduce from it about the properties of the neuron that generated it? A natural way to answer this question is to make an assumption about the type of neuron, select an appropriate model for this type, and then choose the model parameters as those that are most likely to generate the observed spike train. This is the maximum likelihood method. If the neuron obeys simple integrate-and-fire dynamics, Paninski, Pillow, and Simoncelli (2004) showed that its negative log-likelihood function is convex and that, at least in principle, its unique global minimum can thus be found by gradient descent techniques. Many biological neurons are, however, known to generate a richer repertoire of spiking behaviors than can be explained in a simple integrate-and-fire model. For instance, such a model retains only an implicit (through spike-induced currents), not an explicit, memory of its input; an example of a physiological situation that cannot be explained is the absence of firing if the input current is increased very slowly. Therefore, we use an expanded model (Mihalas &amp; Niebur, 2009 ), which is capable of generating a large number of complex firing patterns while still being linear. Linearity is important because it maintains the distribution of the random variables and still allows maximum likelihood methods to be used. In this study, we show that although convexity of the negative log-likelihood function is not guaranteed for this model, the minimum of this function yields a good estimate for the model parameters, in particular if the noise level is treated as a free parameter. Furthermore, we show that a nonlinear function minimization method (r-algorithm with space dilation) usually reaches the global minimum.
Characterizing neural spiking activity as a function of intrinsic and extrinsic factors is important in neuroscience. Point process models are valuable for capturing such information; however, the process of fully applying these models is not always obvious. A complete model application has four broad steps: specification of the model, estimation of model parameters given observed data, verification of the model using goodness of fit, and characterization of the model using confidence bounds. Of these steps, only the first three have been applied widely in the literature, suggesting the need to dedicate a discussion to how the time-rescaling theorem, in combination with parametric bootstrap sampling, can be generally used to compute confidence bounds of point process models. In our first example, we use a generalized linear model of spiking propensity to demonstrate that confidence bounds derived from bootstrap simulations are consistent with those computed from closed-form analytic solutions. In our second example, we consider an adaptive point process model of hippocampal place field plasticity for which no analytical confidence bounds can be derived. We demonstrate how to simulate bootstrap samples from adaptive point process models, how to use these samples to generate confidence bounds, and how to statistically test the hypothesis that neural representations at two time points are significantly different. These examples have been designed as useful guides for performing scientific inference based on point process models.
Dedicated hardware is becoming increasingly essential to simulate emerging very-large-scale neural models. Equally, however, it needs to be able to support multiple models of the neural dynamics, possibly operating simultaneously within the same system. This may be necessary either to simulate large models with heterogeneous neural types, or to simplify simulation and analysis of detailed, complex models in a large simulation by isolating the new model to a small subpopulation of a larger overall network. The SpiNNaker neuromimetic chip is a dedicated neural processor able to support such heterogeneous simulations. Implementing these models on-chip uses an integrated library-based tool chain incorporating the emerging PyNN interface that allows a modeller to input a high-level description and use an automated process to generate an on-chip simulation. Simulations using both LIF and Izhikevich models demonstrate the ability of the SpiNNaker system to generate and simulate heterogeneous networks on-chip, while illustrating, through the network-scale effects of wavefront synchronisation and burst gating, methods that can provide effective behavioural abstractions for large-scale hardware modelling. SpiNNaker's asynchronous virtual architecture permits greater scope for model exploration, with scalable levels of functional and temporal abstraction, than conventional (or neuromorphic) computing platforms. The complete system illustrates a potential path to understanding the neural model of computation, by building (and breaking) neural models at various scales, connecting the blocks, then comparing them against the biology: computational cognitive neuroscience.
The brain is a complex information processing system, which can be divided into sub-systems, such as the sensory organs, functional areas in the cortex, and motor control systems. In this sense, most of the mathematical models developed in the field of neuroscience have mainly targeted a specific sub-system. In order to understand the details of the brain as a whole, such sub-system models need to be integrated toward the development of a neurophysiologically plausible large-scale system model. In the present work, we propose a model integration library where models can be connected by means of a common data format. Here, the common data format should be portable so that models written in any programming language, computer architecture, and operating system can be connected. Moreover, the library should be simple so that models can be adapted to use the common data format without requiring any detailed knowledge on its use. Using this library, we have successfully connected existing models reproducing certain features of the visual system, toward the development of a large-scale visual system model. This library will enable users to reuse and integrate existing and newly developed models toward the development and simulation of a large-scale brain system model. The resulting model can also be executed on high performance computers using Message Passing Interface (MPI).
Human glioblastoma (GBM) cells are notorious for their resistance to apoptosis-inducing therapeutics. We have identified lanatoside C as a sensitizer of GBM cells to tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL)-induced cell death partly by upregulation of the death receptor 5. We show that lanatoside C sensitizes GBM cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis in a GBM xenograft model in vivo. Lanatoside C on its own serves as a therapeutic agent against GBM by activating a caspase-independent cell death pathway. Cells treated with lanatoside C showed necrotic cell morphology with absence of caspase activation, low mitochondrial membrane potential, and early intracellular ATP depletion. In conclusion, lanatoside C sensitizes GBM cells to TRAIL-induced cell death and mitigates apoptosis resistance of glioblastoma cells by inducing an alternative cell death pathway. To our knowledge, this is one of the first examples of use of caspase-independent cell death inducers to trigger tumor regression in vivo. Activation of such mechanism may be a useful strategy to counter resistance of cancer cells to apoptosis.
We report the fine mapping/sequencing results of promoter and regulatory regions of APOE cluster genes (APOE, APOC1, APOC4, APOC2, and TOMM40) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk as well as in the progression from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD. Long-range sequencing in 29 MCI subjects who progressed to dementia revealed 7 novel variants. Two potentially relevant novel variants and 34 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped in a large sample of AD, MCI, and control subjects (n = 1453). Globally, very little association signal was observed in our sample in the absence of APOE 4. Rs5158 (APOC4 intron 1) and rs10413089 (3' to APOC2) showed a trend toward an increase in AD risk independently from APOE 4 associated risk though it did not survive multiple test correction (uncorrected p = 0.0099 and 0.01, respectively). Interestingly, rs10413089 showed a similar effect in an independent series. The analysis of the discovery sample showed an association of TOMM40 single nucleotide polymorphisms with progression from MCI stage to AD (rs59007384 and rs11556510), as well as with a shorter time to progression from MCI status to AD (rs10119), though these results could not be replicated in independent series. Further studies are needed to investigate the role of APOE cluster variants in AD risk.
Expression of the genes for enzymes involved in neurosteroid biosynthesis was studied in human prefrontal cortex (PFC) in the course of Alzheimer's disease (AD) (n=49). Quantitative RT-PCR (qPCR) revealed that mRNA levels of diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI), which is involved in the first step of steroidogenesis and in GABAergic transmission, were increased, as were mRNA levels for several neurosteroid biosynthetic enzymes. Aromatase, 17-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (HSD17B1) and aldo-keto reductase 1C2 (AKR1C2), were all increased in the late stages of AD. Several GABA-A subunits were significantly reduced in AD. Increased expression of aromatase in the PFC was confirmed by immunohistochemistry and was found to be localized predominantly in astrocytes. These data suggest a role for estrogens and allopregnanolone produced by astrocytes in the PFC in AD, possibly as part of a rescue program. The reduced gene expression of some synaptic and extra-synaptic GABA-A subunits may indicate a deficit of modulation of GABA-A receptors by neuroactive steroids, which may contribute to the neuropsychiatric characteristics of this disease.
Insulin resistance (IR) is the main pathological condition underlying vascular disorders, such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease, which are well established risk factors for cognitive decline and Alzheimer disease (AD). Hippocampal atrophy has been associated with cognitive decline, but little is known about the influence of IR on hippocampus integrity in non-diabetic, cognitively intact individuals. Herein, 50 women ages 50-65, current users of hormone therapy, underwent magnetic resonance imaging, cognitive testing, and homeostatic assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), as part of a longitudinal study examining brain structure and function in postmenopausal women at risk for AD. Results demonstrated a significant negative relationship between HOMA-IR and right and total hippocampal volume, overall cognitive performance, and selective tests of verbal and non-verbal memory. The main effect of HOMA-IR on brain structure and cognition was not altered by the presence of APOE-4 allele or by reproductive history, such as duration of endogenous and exogenous estrogen exposure. These results suggest that IR in middle-aged individuals at risk for AD may be biomarker for dementia risk.
Aging has readily observable effects on the ability to resolve conflict between competing stimulus attributes that are likely related to selective structural and functional brain changes. To identify age-related differences in neural circuits subserving conflict processing, we combined structural and functional MRI and a Stroop Match-to-Sample task involving perceptual cueing and repetition to modulate resources in healthy young and older adults. In our Stroop Match-to-Sample task, older adults handled conflict by activating a frontoparietal attention system more than young adults and engaged a visuomotor network more than young adults when processing repetitive conflict and when processing conflict following valid perceptual cueing. By contrast, young adults activated frontal regions more than older adults when processing conflict with perceptual cueing. These differential activation patterns were not correlated with regional gray matter volume despite smaller volumes in older than young adults. Given comparable performance in speed and accuracy of responding between both groups, these data suggest that successful aging is associated with functional reorganization of neural systems to accommodate functionally increasing task demands on perceptual and attentional operations.
Diabetes mellitus types 1 and 2 (DM1 and DM2) and/or hypertension (HTN) can contribute to cognitive decline, cerebral atrophy and white matter abnormalities in humans. Adult rat models of streptozotocin-induced DM1 and genetic strains of DM2 and HTN were used to investigate relative contributions of DM and HTN for alterations in cerebral structure and function as well as insulin receptor biology using cognitive testing, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and histological and molecular methods. The effects of DM1 or DM2 were generally similar. DM was associated with earlier onset of cognitive impairment than with HTN alone. DM was independently correlated with brain atrophy, whereas HTN had minimal effects on brain volume. The combination of DM and HTN led to identifiable mild hippocampal neuronal loss while either DM or HTN led to synaptic loss. Only DM led to downregulation of the insulin receptor pathways' activation. In contrast, only HTN was associated with vascular luminal reduction and restricted cerebral perfusion on MRI. The impacts of DM and HTN in the brain differ, while their separate contributions can lead to some additive adverse effects within rodent brain grey matter.
Understanding of the role of insulin in the brain has gradually expanded, from initial conceptions of the brain as insulin-insensitive through identification of a role in regulation of feeding, to recent demonstration of insulin as a key component of hippocampal memory processes. Conversely, systemic insulin resistance such as that seen in type 2 diabetes is associated with a range of cognitive and neural deficits. Here we review the evidence for insulin as a cognitive and neural modulator, including potential effector mechanisms, and examine the impact that type 2 diabetes has on these mechanisms in order to identify likely bases for the cognitive impairments seen in type 2 diabetic patients.
It has long been known that memory is not a single process. Rather, there are different kinds of memory that are supported by distinct neural systems. This idea stemmed from early findings of dissociable patterns of memory impairments in patients with selective damage to different brain regions. These studies highlighted the role of the basal ganglia in non-declarative memory, such as procedural or habit learning, contrasting it with the known role of the medial temporal lobes in declarative memory. In recent years, major advances across multiple areas of neuroscience have revealed an important role for the basal ganglia in motivation and decision making. These findings have led to new discoveries about the role of the basal ganglia in learning and highlighted the essential role of dopamine in specific forms of learning. Here we review these recent advances with an emphasis on novel discoveries from studies of learning in patients with Parkinson's disease. We discuss how these findings promote the development of current theories away from accounts that emphasize the verbalizability of the contents of memory and towards a focus on the specific computations carried out by distinct brain regions. Finally, we discuss new challenges that arise in the face of accumulating evidence for dynamic and interconnected memory systems that jointly contribute to learning.
Chronic alcoholism is associated with impaired cognitive functioning. Over 75% of autopsied chronic alcoholics have significant brain damage and over 50% of detoxified alcoholics display some degree of learning and memory impairment. However, the relative contributions of different etiological factors to the development of alcohol-related neuropathology and cognitive impairment are questioned. One reason for this quandary is that both alcohol toxicity and thiamine deficiency result in brain damage and cognitive problems. Two alcohol-related neurological disorders, alcohol-associated dementia and Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome have been modeled in rodents. These pre-clinical models have elucidated the relative contributions of ethanol toxicity and thiamine deficiency to the development of dementia and amnesia. What is observed in these models--from repeated and chronic ethanol exposure to thiamine deficiency--is a progression of both neural and cognitive dysregulation. Repeated binge exposure to ethanol leads to changes in neural plasticity by reducing GABAergic inhibition and facilitating glutamatergic excitation, long-term chronic ethanol exposure results in hippocampal and cortical cell loss as well as reduced hippocampal neurotrophin protein content critical for neural survival, and thiamine deficiency results in gross pathological lesions in the diencephalon, reduced neurotrophic protein levels, and neurotransmitters levels in the hippocampus and cortex. Behaviorally, after recovery from repeated or chronic ethanol exposure there is impairment in working or episodic memory that can recover with prolonged abstinence. In contrast, after thiamine deficiency there is severe and persistent spatial memory impairments and increased perseverative behavior. The interaction between ethanol and thiamine deficiency does not produce more behavioral or neural pathology, with the exception of reduction of white matter, than long-term thiamine deficiency alone.
D-Serine, an endogenous co-agonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, plays an important role in mammalian brain neurotransmission, via the NMDA receptor. D-Serine is synthesized from L-serine by the pyridoxal-5' phosphate-dependent enzyme serine racemase (SRR), and D-serine is metabolized by D-amino acid oxidase (DAAO). In this study, we measured levels of the neurotransmission related amino acids, d-serine, L-serine, glycine, glutamine and glutamate in the frontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum and cerebellum as well as in peripheral tissues of blood, heart, pancreas, spleen, liver, kidney, testis, epididymis, heart, lung, muscle and eyeball, in wild-type (WT) and Srr-knockout (Srr-KO) mice. Levels of D-serine in the frontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum of Srr-KO mice were significantly lower than in WT mice, while levels in the cerebellum stayed the same. In contrast, levels of L-serine, glycine, glutamine and glutamate remained the same in all tested brain regions. In vivo microdialysis using free-moving mice showed that extracellular levels of D-serine in the hippocampus of Srr-KO mice were significantly lower than in WT mice while the other amino acid levels remained the same between mice. In peripheral organs, levels of D-serine in the kidney, testis, and muscle of Srr-KO mice were significantly lower than in WT mice. Tissue levels of the other tested amino acids in peripheral organs were not altered. These results suggest that SRR is the major enzyme responsible for D-serine production in the mouse forebrain, and that other pathways of d-serine production may exist in the brain and peripheral organs.
It is increasingly evident that neuroinflammatory mechanisms are implicated in the pathogenesis of the central nervous system (CNS) complications (intracranial hypertension, brain herniation) of acute liver failure (ALF). Neuroinflammation in ALF is characterized by microglial activation and arterio-venous difference studies as well as studies of gene expression confirm local brain production and release of proinflammatory cytokines including TNF- and the interleukins IL-1 and IL-6. Although the precise nature of the glial cell responsible for brain cytokine synthesis is not yet established, evidence to date supports a role for both astrocytes and microglia. The neuroinflammatory response in ALF progresses in parallel with the progression of hepatic encephalopathy (HE) and with the severity of brain edema (astrocyte swelling). Mechanisms responsible for the relaying of signals from the failing liver to the brain include transduction of systemic proinflammatory signals as well as the effects of increased brain lactate leading to increased release of cytokines from both astrocytes and microglia. There is evidence in support of a synergistic effect of proinflammatory cytokines and ammonia in the pathogenesis of HE and brain edema in ALF. Therapeutic implications of the findings of a neuroinflammatory response in ALF are multiple. Removal of both ammonia and proinflammatory cytokines is possible using antibiotics or albumen dialysis. Mild hypothermia reduces brain ammonia transfer, brain lactate production, microglial activation and proinflammatory cytokine production resulting in reduced brain edema and intracranial pressure in ALF. N-Acetylcysteine acts as both an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agent at both peripheral and central sites of action independently resulting in slowing of HE progression and prevention of brain edema. Novel treatments that directly target the neuroinflammatory response in ALF include the use of etanercept, a TNF- neutralizing molecule and minocycline, an agent with potent inhibitory actions on microglial activation that are independent of its antimicrobial properties; both agents have been shown to be effective in reducing neuroinflammation and in preventing the CNS complications of ALF. Translation of these findings to the clinic has the potential to provide rational targeted approaches to the prevention and treatment of these complications in the near future.
Growing evidence suggests a pivotal role for glutamatergic neurotransmission in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder and in the action of antidepressants. The main aim of this study was to elucidate the temporal profile of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptors expression and their functional regulation in prefrontal/frontal cortex (P/FC) and hippocampus (HC) of rats chronically treated with two different antidepressants: fluoxetine (FLX) and reboxetine (RBX). Rat groups were treated for 1, 2 or 3 weeks with the two drugs and, in additional groups, the treatments were followed by 1 week of drug washout (3+1). We found that both drugs induced strong increases in AMPAR subunit protein expression that were time dependent and subunit specific. Especially in P/FC, FLX had the main effect on GluA2 and GluA4 subunits, reaching a 5-fold increase after the drug washout; RBX mostly affected GluA1 and GluA3, reaching a 4-fold increase at the end of the treatment. Furthermore, in HC, the two drugs induced a time specific increase in subunit protein levels, with GluA3 and GluA4 presenting the main changes, albeit with different kinetics. In addition, our data indicate that antidepressants might alter, though by small changes, the R/G editing levels for GluA2, mostly in P/FC, and in turn may induce fine-tuning of glutamate neurotransmission. Overall, we showed that antidepressant treatments induced marked changes in AMPA receptor subunits expression, with time-dependent effects that are consistent with the onset of therapeutic effect of these drugs. These data confirm the involvement of glutamate neurotransmission in the effects of these drugs and further suggest the targeting of AMPA receptors as a therapeutic approach for the treatment of depression.
Parkinson's disease (PD) and Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) are neurodegenerative diseases that are characterized by intra-neuronal inclusions of Lewy bodies in distinct brain regions. These inclusions consist mainly of aggregated -synuclein (-syn) protein. The present study used immunoprecipitation combined with nanoflow liquid chromatography (LC) coupled to high resolution electrospray ionization Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-FTICR-MS/MS) to determine known and novel isoforms of -syn in brain tissue homogenates. N-terminally acetylated full-length -syn (Ac--syn) and two N-terminally acetylated C-terminally truncated forms of -syn (Ac--syn and Ac--syn) were found. The different forms of -syn were further studied by Western blotting in brain tissue homogenates from the temporal cortex Brodmann area 36 (BA36) and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex BA9 derived from controls, patients with DLB and PD with dementia (PDD). Quantification of -syn in each brain tissue fraction was performed using a novel enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).

The role of glial cells in Parkinson's disease (PD) is unclear. We have previously reported a striking up-regulation of DnaJB6 heat shock protein in PD substantia nigra astrocytes. Whole genome transcriptome analysis also indicated increased expression of metallothionein genes in substantia nigra and cortex of sporadic PD cases. Metallothioneins are metal-binding proteins in the CNS that are released by astrocytes and associated with neuroprotection. Metallothionein expression was investigated in 18 PD cases and 15 non-PD controls using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), in situ hybridisation (ISH) and immunocytochemistry (ICC). We observed a strong increase in the expression of metallothioneins MT1E, MT1F, MT1G, MT1H, MT1M, MT1X and MT2A in both PD nigra and frontal cortex. Expression of LRP2 (megalin), the neuronal metallothionein receptor was also significantly increased. qRT-PCR confirmed metallothionein up-regulation. Astrocytes were found to be the main source of metallothioneins 1 and 2 based on ISH results, and this finding was confirmed by ICC. Our findings demonstrate metallothionein expression by reactive astrocytes in PD nigra and support a neuroprotective role for these cells. The traditional view that nigral astrocytes are non-reactive in PD is clearly incorrect. However, it is possible that astrocytes are themselves affected by the disease process which may explain their comparatively modest and previously overlooked response.
Vascular pathologies of brain comprise a heterogeneous group of abnormalities such as vasculitis, dural arteriovenous malformations, carotid-cavernous fistulas, cerebral venous thrombosis, and intracerebral hemorrhage. Modern imaging techniques are increasingly unraveling these vascular lesions of the brain at a stage when many of them are still asymptomatic. This article focuses on acquired vascular pathologies of brain prevalent in tropical countries that are encountered in clinical practice.
The myelin sheath and oligodendrocytes in the brain may be damaged by autoimmune-mediated inflammatory processes secondary to postinfectious demyelination or nutritional and vitamin deficiency. This article describes acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, acute hemorrhagic leukoencephalitis, acute necrotizing encephalopathy, and tumefactive demyelination as well as osmotic demyelination, Wernicke encephalopathy, Marchiafava-Bignami disease, and subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord. Although some characteristic MR imaging features allow radiologists to suggest a diagnosis, these may overlap, and images should be interpreted in light of clinical symptoms and laboratory investigations.
Human consciousness requires brainstem, basal forebrain, and diencephalic areas to support generalized arousal, and functioning thalamocortical networks to respond to environmental and internal stimuli. Disconnection of these interconnected systems, typically from cardiac arrest and traumatic brain injury, can result in disorders of consciousness. Brain injuries can also result in loss of motor output out of proportion to consciousness, resulting in misdiagnoses. The authors review pathology and imaging studies and derive mechanistic models for each of these conditions. Such models may guide the development of target-based treatment algorithms to enhance recovery of consciousness in many of these patients.
McArdle's disease (myophosphorylase deficiency), an uncommon autosomal recessive metabolic disorder, is characterized clinically by exercise intolerance beginning in childhood, myalgia, cramps, exercise-induced rhabdomyolysis, &quot;second wind&quot; phenomenon, elevated Creatine Kinase (CK) levels at rest, and previous episodes of raised CK levels following exercise. Several mutations in the PYGM gene and geographic variations have been described. We report three biopsy confirmed cases of McArdle's disease.
Congenital myopathies (CMs), a group of relatively non-progressive disorders presents with weakness and hypotonia of varying severity, morphologically recognized by specific structural abnormalities within the myofiber. This report presents the clinical and Histopathological features of 40 patients with CMs. Centronuclear myopathy was the commonest (40%) followed by congenital fiber type disproportion (37.5%). Other less common CMs included: myotubular myopathy (5%), nemaline myopathy (5%), central core disease (5%), multicore disease (2.5%) and congenital myopathy with tubular aggregate (5%). Immunolabeling to desmin corresponded to morphological changes within the myofibers while vimentin was negative in all the patients. There is no combined role of these proteins in the disease process.

In patients with brain tumor, seizures are the onset symptom in 20-40% of the patients, while a further 20-45% of the patients will present them during the course of the disease. These data are important when considering the choice of antiepileptic drugs for this particular patient population, because brain tumor-related epilepsy (BTRE) is often drug resistant, has a strong impact on the quality of life and weighs heavily on public health expenditures. In brain tumor patients, the presence of epilepsy is considered as the most important risk factor for long-term disability. For this reason, the problem of the proper administration of medications and their potential side effects is of great importance, because good seizure control can significantly improve the patient's psychological and relational sphere. In these patients, new generation drugs such as gabapentin, lamotrigine, levetiracetam, oxcarbazepine, pregabalin, topiramate, and zonisamide are preferred, because they have fewer drug interactions and cause fewer side effects. Among the recently marketed drugs, lacosamide has demonstrated promising results and should be considered as a possible treatment option. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a customized treatment plan for each patient with BTRE, whose goals are complete seizure control, minimal or no side effects, and elimination of cognitive impairment and/or psychosocial problems.
Parkinson disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects, among other neurotransmitter systems, the nigrostriatal dopaminergic projection. Palliative treatment with levodopa and/or dopamine agonists improves motor symptoms even though patients continue to get clinically worse by the neurodegenerative process that continues to act as the major factor of physiological aging. Studies (in vitro and in vivo) with experimental models have shown that dopamine agonists have neuroprotective effects, directly or indirectly mediated by their ability to stabilize mitochondria, antioxidant effects, synthesis of growth factors, stabilization of the ubiquitin-proteasome system, activation of autophagy, antiapoptotic induction of Bcl2 family, or enhancement of neurogenesis (proliferation and migration) in the subventricular zone. Clinical studies have not completely confirmed these effects. Analysis in better characterized groups of patients with similar clinical symptoms, identical treatments, and the same evolution time are required. Technological advances which enable the learning of the etiology and the pathogenesis (genetic and environmental) of the disease, together with clinical assessment methods, bring hope to the development of new molecules in the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson disease. These molecules must display neuroprotective potential (prophylactic and/or therapeutic) which must be able to maintain the brain's physiological function and to modify or slow the natural course of the disease.
FHL1, BAG3, MATR3 and PTRF are recently identified myopathy genes associated with phenotypes that overlap muscular dystrophy. TCAP is a rare reported cause of muscular dystrophy not routinely screened in most centres. We hypothesised that these genes may account for patients with undiagnosed forms of muscular dystrophy in Australia. We screened a large cohort of muscular dystrophy patients for abnormalities in FHL1 (n=102) and TCAP (n=100) and selected patients whose clinical features overlapped the phenotypes previously described for BAG3 (n=9), MATR3 (n=15) and PTRF (n=7). We found one FHL1 mutation (c.311G&gt;A, p.C104Y) in a boy with rapidly progressive muscle weakness and reducing body myopathy who was initially diagnosed with muscular dystrophy. We identified no pathogenic mutations in BAG3, MATR3, PTRF or TCAP. In conclusion, we have excluded these five genes as common causes of muscular dystrophy in Australia. Patients with reducing body myopathy may be initially diagnosed as muscular dystrophy.
We investigated the feasibility of using the Space Fortress (SF) game, a complex video game originally developed to study complex skill acquisition in young adults, to improve executive control processes in cognitively healthy older adults. The study protocol consisted of 36 one-hour game play sessions over 3 months with cognitive evaluations before and after, and a follow-up evaluation at 6 months. Sixty participants were randomized to one of three conditions: Emphasis Change (EC)--elders were instructed to concentrate on playing the entire game but place particular emphasis on a specific aspect of game play in each particular game; Active Control (AC)--game play with standard instructions; Passive Control (PC)--evaluation sessions without game play. Primary outcome measures were obtained from five tasks, presumably tapping executive control processes. A total of 54 older adults completed the study protocol. One measure of executive control, WAIS-III letter-number sequencing, showed improvement in performance from pre- to post-evaluations in the EC condition, but not in the other two conditions. These initial findings are modest but encouraging. Future SF interventions need to carefully consider increasing the duration and or the intensity of the intervention by providing at-home game training, reducing the motor demands of the game, and selecting appropriate outcome measures.
Proper motor control of our own body implies a reliable representation of body parts. This information is supposed to be stored in the Body Schema (BS), a body representation that appears separate from a more perceptual body representation, the Body Image (BI). The dissociation between BS for action and BI for perception, originally based on neuropsychological evidence, has recently become the focus of behavioural studies in physiological conditions. By inducing the rubber hand illusion in healthy participants, Kammers et al. (2009) showed perceptual changes attributable to the BI to which the BS, as indexed via motor tasks, was immune. To more definitively support the existence of dissociable body representations in physiological conditions, here we tested for the opposite dissociation, namely, whether a tool-use paradigm would induce a functional update of the BS (via a motor localization task) without affecting the BI (via a perceptual localization task). Healthy subjects were required to localize three anatomical landmarks on their right arm, before and after using the same arm to control a tool. In addition to this classical task-dependency approach, we assessed whether preferential access to the BS could also depend upon the way positional information about forearm targets is provided, to subsequently execute the same task. To this aim, participants performed either verbally or tactually driven versions of the motor and perceptual localization tasks. Results showed that both the motor and perceptual tasks were sensitive to the update of the forearm representation, but only when the localization task (perceptual or motor) was driven by a tactile input. This pattern reveals that the motor output is not sufficient per se, but has to be coupled with tactually mediated information to guarantee access to the BS. These findings shade a new light on the action-perception models of body representations and underlie how functional plasticity may be a useful tool to clarify their operational definition.
In recent years, there has been growing excitement within cognitive neuroscience about the concept of embodiment: How do the capabilities and limitations of our physical bodies affect neural representations in the brain? Neuropsychological and neurophysiological studies show clear evidence that short-term visuomotor experience can influence the encoding of the space around the body in parietal cortex. For example, tool-use may expand the neural representation of peripersonal space. But how is this initial spatial representation influenced by a lifetime of object-related interactions? To examine this question we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the neural effects of an individual's hand preferences for acting within peripersonal space. Left- and right-handed participants viewed real-world objects at different locations accessible by either the left hand, right hand, or neither hand. The superior parieto-occipital cortex (SPOC), an area most often implicated in reaching actions, showed enhanced visual responses for objects located within the range of space in which each group typically acts. Specifically, in right-handers, who strongly prefer grasping with the right hand, SPOC showed strongest activation for objects located within the range of space for the right hand only. In contrast, in left-handers, who use their two hands comparably often in visuomotor tasks, SPOC showed strongest activation for objects located within the range of space of either hand. These findings show that, even in the absence of overt responses, real 3D objects located in the individual's typical workspace for hand actions automatically invoke enhanced responses in associated visuomotor areas of the brain.
This study reports the case of a patient (AG) whose main calculation problem was with multiplication that was severely affected at all levels including that of conceptual knowledge. In contrast AG's problems with addition, subtraction and division were much less conspicuous and just involved the use of procedures. For all these latter operations, and for division in particular, conceptual knowledge was spared. Despite his procedural problems, AG in fact was fully aware that division consists of finding out how many times a given quantity is contained in another quantity. Thus while he was able to reach the correct results for division by subtracting the divisor from the dividend, he never used the reverse strategy to complete multiplication operations, i.e. add the number for as many times as the multiplier to complete the operation, and showed no awareness that this was what multiplying means, even when explicit suggestions were made by the examiner. The existence of AG's case could not be expected on the basis of theories holding that division depends on multiplication and that is not separately represented in semantic memory. It follows, therefore, that the extent to which division depends on multiplication needs to be reconsidered.
When relearning words, patients with semantic dementia (SD) exhibit a characteristic rigidity, including a failure to generalise names to untrained exemplars of trained concepts. This has been attributed to an over-reliance on the medial temporal region which captures information in sparse, non-overlapping and therefore rigid representations. The current study extends previous investigations of SD relearning by re-examining the additional contribution made by the degraded cortical semantic system. The standard relearning protocol was modified by careful selection of foils to show that people with semantic dementia were sometimes able to extend their learning appropriately but that this correct generalisation was minimal (i.e. the patients under-generalised their learning). The revised assessment procedure highlighted the fact that, after relearning, the participants also incorrectly over-generalised the learned label to closely related concepts. It is unlikely that these behaviours would occur if the participants had only formed sparse hippocampal representations. These novel data build on the notion that people with semantic dementia engage both the degraded cortical semantic (neocortex) and the episodic (medial temporal) systems to learn. Because of neocortical damage to the anterior temporal lobes, relearning is disordered with a characteristic pattern of under- and over-generalisation.
The form of the structural asymmetries across the cerebral hemispheres, that support well-established functional asymmetries, are not well understood. Although, many previous studies have investigated structural differences in areas associated with strong functional asymmetries, such as language processes, regions of the brain with less well established functional laterality have received less attention. The current study aims to address this by exploring global white matter asymmetries of the healthy human brain using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and tractography. DTI was conducted on twenty-nine healthy right-handed males, and pathways from the four major lobes were reconstructed using probabilistic tractography. Mean FA, parallel and perpendicular diffusion values were calculated and compared across hemispheres for each pathway generated. Significant asymmetries in the parietal (rightward asymmetry) and occipital (leftward asymmetry) pathways were found in FA measures. However, asymmetric patterns in parallel and/or perpendicular diffusion were observed in all four lobes, even in pathways with symmetrical FA. For instance, significant rightward asymmetry in parallel diffusion was found in the parietal and frontal lobes, whereas significant leftward asymmetry was found in the temporal and occipital lobes. We suggest that these different patterns of diffusion asymmetry reflect differences in microanatomy that support the known patterns of differential functional asymmetry. The different directions of anatomical asymmetry support the notion that there may be a number of different lateralising influences operating in the brain.

Administration of typical antipsychotic drugs, such as haloperidol, promotes cAMP-dependent signaling in the medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the striatum. In this study, we have examined the effect of haloperidol on the state of phosphorylation of the ribosomal protein S6 (rpS6), a component of the small 40S ribosomal subunit. We found that haloperidol increases the phosphorylation of rpS6 at the dual site Ser235/236, which is involved in the regulation of mRNA translation. This effect was exerted in the MSNs of the indirect pathway, which express specifically dopamine D2 receptors (D2Rs) and adenosine A2 receptors (A2ARs). The effect of haloperidol was decreased by blockade of A2ARs or by genetic attenuation of the G(olf) protein, which couples A2ARs to activation of adenylyl cyclase. Moreover, stimulation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) increased Ser235/236 phosphorylation in cultured striatal neurons. The ability of haloperidol to promote rpS6 phosphorylation was abolished in knock-in mice deficient for PKA activation of the protein phosphatase-1 inhibitor, dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32kDa. In contrast, pharmacological or genetic inactivation of p70 rpS6 kinase 1, or extracellular signal-regulated kinases did not affect haloperidol-induced rpS6 phosphorylation. These results identify PKA as a major rpS6 kinase in neuronal cells and suggest that regulation of protein synthesis through rpS6 may be a potential target of antipsychotic drugs.
Alcoholism and alcohol use disorders are characterized by several months to decades of heavy and problematic drinking, interspersed with periods of abstinence and relapse to heavy drinking. This alcohol-drinking phenotype was modeled using macaque monkeys to explore neuronal adaptations in the striatum, a brain region controlling habitual behaviors. Prolonged drinking with repeated abstinence narrowed the variability in daily intake, increased the amount of ethanol consumed in bouts, and led to higher blood ethanol concentrations more than twice the legal intoxication limit. After the final abstinence period of this extensive drinking protocol, we found a selective increase in dendritic spine density and enhanced glutamatergic transmission in the putamen, but not in the caudate nucleus. Intrinsic excitability of medium-sized spiny neurons was also enhanced in the putamen of alcohol-drinking monkeys in comparison with non-drinkers, and GABAeric transmission was selectively suppressed in the putamen of heavy drinkers. These morphological and physiological changes indicate a shift in the balance of inhibitory/excitatory transmission that biases the circuit toward an enduring increase in synaptic activation of putamen output as a consequence of prolonged heavy drinking/relapse. The resultant potential for increased putamen activation may underlie an alcohol-drinking phenotype of regulated drinking and sustained intoxication.
Oxytocin is known to have anti-anxiety and anti-stress effects. Using a fear-potentiated startle paradigm in rats, we previously demonstrated that subcutaneously administered oxytocin suppressed acoustic startle following fear conditioning compared with startle before fear conditioning (termed background anxiety), but did not have an effect on cue-specific fear-potentiated startle. The findings suggest oxytocin reduces background anxiety, an anxious state not directly related to cue-specific fear, but sustained beyond the immediate threat. The goal of the present study was to compare the effects of centrally and peripherally administered oxytocin on background anxiety and cue-specific fear. Male rats were given oxytocin either subcutaneously (SC) or intracerebroventricularly (ICV) into the lateral ventricles before fear-potentiated startle testing. Oxytocin doses of 0.01 and 0.1g/kg SC reduced background anxiety. ICV administration of oxytocin at doses from 0.002 to 20g oxytocin had no effect on background anxiety or cue-specific fear-potentiated startle. The 20g ICV dose of oxytocin did reduce acoustic startle in non-fear conditioned rats. These studies indicate that oxytocin is potent and effective in reducing background anxiety when delivered peripherally, but not when delivered into the cerebroventricular system. Oxytocin given systemically may have anti-anxiety properties that are particularly germane to the hypervigilance and exaggerated startle typically seen in many anxiety and mental health disorder patients.
Impaired glutamate homeostasis in the nucleus accumbens has been linked to cocaine relapse in animal models, and results in part from cocaine-induced downregulation of the cystine-glutamate exchanger. In addition to regulating extracellular glutamate, the uptake of cystine by the exchanger is a rate-limiting step in the synthesis of glutathione (GSH). GSH is critical for balancing cellular redox in response to oxidative stress. Cocaine administration induces oxidative stress, and we first determined if downregulated cystine-glutamate exchange alters redox homeostasis in rats withdrawn from daily cocaine injections and then challenged with acute cocaine. Among the daily cocaine-induced changes in redox homeostasis were an increase in protein S-glutathionylation and a decrease in expression of GSH-S-transferase pi (GSTpi). To mimic reduced GSTpi, a genetic mouse model of GSTpi deletion or pharmacological inhibition of GSTpi by administering ketoprofen during daily cocaine administration was used. The capacity of cocaine to induce conditioned place preference or locomotor sensitization was augmented, indicating that reducing GSTpi may contribute to cocaine-induced behavioral neuroplasticity. Conversely, an acute cocaine challenge after withdrawal from daily cocaine elicited a marked increase in accumbens GSTpi, and the expression of behavioral sensitization to a cocaine challenge injection was inhibited by ketoprofen pretreatment; supporting a protective effect by the acute cocaine-induced rise in GSTpi. Together, these data indicate that cocaine-induced oxidative stress induces changes in GSTpi that contribute to cocaine-induced behavioral plasticity.
Genetic variation in AKT1 may be associated with sensitivity to the psychotomimetic effects of cannabis as well as with increased risk for psychotic disorder following cannabis use. Investigation of the effect of this interaction on relevant intermediate phenotypes for psychosis, such as cognition, may help to clarify the underlying mechanism. Thus, verbal memory (visually presented Word Learning Task), sustained attention (Continuous Performance Test, CPT), AKT1 rs2494732 genotype, and cannabis use were examined in a large cohort of patients with psychotic disorder. No evidence was found for AKT1  cannabis interaction on verbal memory. Cannabis use preceding onset of psychotic disorder did interact significantly with AKT1 rs2494732 genotype to affect CPT reaction time (=8.0, SE 3.9, p=0.037) and CPT accuracy (=-1.2, SE 0.4, p=0.003). Cannabis-using patients with the a priori vulnerability C/C genotype were slower and less accurate on the CPT, whereas cannabis-using patients with the T/T genotype had similar or better performance than non-using patients with psychotic disorder. The interaction was also apparent in patients with psychotic disorder who had not used cannabis in the 12 months preceding assessment, but was absent in the unaffected siblings of these patients and in healthy controls. In conclusion, cannabis use before onset of psychosis may have long-lasting effects on measures of sustained attention, even in the absence of current use, contingent on AKT1 rs2494732 genotype. The results suggest that long-term changes in cognition may mediate the risk-increasing effect of the AKT1  cannabis interaction on psychotic disorder.
During the last decades music neuroscience has become a rapidly growing field within the area of neuroscience. Music is particularly well suited for studying neuronal plasticity in the human brain because musical training is more complex and multimodal than most other daily life activities, and because prospective and professional musicians usually pursue the training with high and long-lasting commitment. Therefore, music has increasingly been used as a tool for the investigation of human cognition and its underlying brain mechanisms. Music relates to many brain functions like perception, action, cognition, emotion, learning and memory and therefore music is an ideal tool to investigate how the human brain is working and how different brain functions interact. Novel findings have been obtained in the field of induced cortical plasticity by musical training. The positive effects, which music in its various forms has in the healthy human brain are not only important in the framework of basic neuroscience, but they also will strongly affect the practices in neuro-rehabilitation.
The auditory system faithfully represents sufficient details from sound sources such that downstream cognitive processes are capable of acting upon this information effectively even in the face of signal uncertainty, degradation or interference. This robust sound source representation leads to an invariance in perception vital for animals to interact effectively with their environment. Due to unique nonlinearities in the cochlea, sound representations early in the auditory system exhibit a large amount of variability as a function of stimulus intensity. In other words, changes in stimulus intensity, such as for sound sources at differing distances, create a unique challenge for the auditory system to encode sounds invariantly across the intensity dimension. This challenge and some strategies available to sensory systems to eliminate intensity as an encoding variable are discussed, with a special emphasis upon sound encoding.
The central nervous system is plastic throughout life, but is most sensitive to the statistics of the sensory environment during critical periods of early postnatal development. In the auditory cortex, various forms of acoustic experience have been found to shape the formation of receptive fields and influence the overall rate of cortical organization. The synaptic mechanisms that control cortical receptive field plasticity are beginning to be described, particularly for frequency tuning in rodent primary auditory cortex. Inhibitory circuitry plays a major role in critical period regulation, and new evidence suggests that the formation of excitatory-inhibitory balance determines the duration of critical period plasticity for auditory cortical frequency tuning. Cortical inhibition is poorly tuned in the infant brain, but becomes co-tuned with excitation in an experience-dependent manner over the first postnatal month. We discuss evidence suggesting that this may be a general feature of the developing cortex, and describe the functional implications of such transient excitatory-inhibitory imbalance.
One important aspect of empathy is a &quot;resonance mechanism&quot;, which includes emotional cue detection, facial mimicry (measured by electromyography, EMG) and a specific cortical response. This study explored the convergence of these three measures of affective empathy. The twenty students who took part in the study were required to empathise with the situation by entering into the other person's situation. The four emotions portrayed were anger, fear, happiness, and neutral, and the subjects were instructed to make a two-alternative response (emotion or no emotion) to each emotion. A repeated transcranial magnetic stimulation was used to produce a temporary inhibition of the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC). The results support the hypothesis that there is a direct relationship between emotional cue recognition, EMG-measured facial response and prefrontal activity. First, both facial expression detection and autonomic mimicry in reaction to emotional faces were systematically modulated in response to inhibition of the MPFC. Second, the MPFC was implicated in facial cue detection and the subsequent autonomic response because an impaired performance on both measures was observed when this brain area was inhibited. Third, this effect increased when negative-valenced stimuli (angry and fearful faces) were presented to the subjects. These results revealed a significant effect of the MPFC on both cue detection and facial mimicry that was distinctly related to different types of emotions.
The concept of anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis, a severe, potentially lethal, treatment-responsive disorder, mediated by autoantibodies against NMDAR was proposed. Because paraneoplastic anti-NMDAR encephalitis has a better prognosis after tumor resection and immunotherapy, rapid quantitative systems for detecting functional autoantibodies against extracellular epitopes of NMDAR are necessary. To detect autoantibodies recognizing extracellular epitopes of NMDAR, we stably expressed mutant NMDAR that decreases Ca(2+) permeability on a heterologous cell surface without any antagonist. Serum and CSF samples from patients were analysed using the cells expressing mutant NMDAR subunits by immunocytochemistry and on-cell Western analysis using live cells stably expressing mutant NMDAR. Furthermore, we were able to express mutant GluR1(NR1, GluN1) subunit of NMDAR alone on the cell surface and obtained direct evidence of the presence of autoantibodies recognizing extracellular epitopes of GluR1 and the induction of internalization by autoantibodies in serum and CSF from patients. The specificity of on-cell Western analysis was improved at 37C. The combination of this rapid quantitative assay using our on-cell western analysis, detailed analysis of extracellular epitopes of NMDAR, and internalization assay of NMDAR will be valuable for the diagnosis, evaluation of clinical treatments, and follow-up of anti-NMDAR encephalitis.
c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) mediates neuronal death in response to stress and injury in the CNS and peripheral nervous system. Here, we show that JNK also regulates retrograde axonal degeneration (axonal dieback) after spinal cord injury (SCI) in mice. Activated phospho-JNK was highly expressed in damaged corticospinal tract (CST) axons after thoracic SCI by hemisection. Local administration of SP600125, a JNK inhibitor, prevented accumulation of amyloid- precursor protein and retraction of the severed CST axons as well as preserved the axonal arbors rostral to the injury site. The treatment with SP600125 also improved functional recovery of the hindlimbs, assessed by Basso mouse scale open-field scores and the grid-walking test. In Jnk1(-/-) and Jnk3(-/-) mice, we observed prevention of axonal degeneration and enhancement of motor recovery after SCI. These results indicate that both JNK1 and JNK3 induce axonal degeneration and limit motor recovery after SCI. Thus, a JNK inhibitor may be a suitable therapeutic agent for SCI.

We have previously demonstrated that -synuclein overexpression increases the membrane conductance of dopaminergic-like cells. Although -synuclein is thought to play a central role in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy, and diffuse Lewy body disease, the mechanism of action is not completely understood. In this study, we sought to determine whether multiple factors act together with -synuclein to engender cell vulnerability through an augmentation of membrane conductance. In this article, we employed a cell model that mimics dopaminergic neurons coupled with -synuclein overexpression and oxidative stressors. We demonstrate an enhancement of -synuclein-induced toxicity in the presence of combined treatment with dopamine and paraquat, two molecules known to incite oxidative stress. In addition, we show that combined dopamine and paraquat treatment increases the expression of heme oxygenase-1, an antioxidant response protein. Finally, we demonstrate for the first time that combined treatment of dopaminergic cells with paraquat and dopamine enhances -synuclein-induced leak channel properties resulting in increased membrane conductance. Importantly, these increases are most robust when both paraquat and dopamine are present suggesting the need for multiple oxidative insults to augment -synuclein-induced disruption of membrane integrity.
Ketamine is a non-competitive glutamatergic antagonist used to induce sedation and analgesia. In sub-anesthetic doses, it induces hyperlocomotion, impairs memory and evokes stereotypic circling in rodents. Zebrafish (Danio rerio) emerged as a promising new animal model to screen the effects of psychotropic compounds. Here, we investigated the effects of sub-anesthetic doses of ketamine on anxiety, locomotion, habituation and social behavior of adult zebrafish. Acute 20-min exposure to 20 and 40 mg/L (but not 2 mg/L) of ketamine reduced anxiety, impaired intra-session habituation, evoked circular swimming and disrupted zebrafish shoaling. Additionally, ketamine reduced whole-body cortisol levels and elevated brain c-fos expression in zebrafish. Our findings demonstrate the sensitivity of zebrafish to behavioral and physiological effects of sub-anesthetic doses of ketamine, further supporting the utility of this species as a model for neuropharmacological research, including testing ketamine and related drugs.
Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is a devastating disorder accompanied by numerous morphological and behavioral abnormalities. Human FAS has been modeled in laboratory animals including the zebrafish. Recently, embryonic exposure to low doses of ethanol has been shown to impair behavior without any gross morphological alterations in zebrafish. The exposed zebrafish showed reduced responses to animated conspecific images. The effect of embryonic ethanol exposure, however, has not been investigated in a real shoal and the potential mechanisms underlying the behavioral impairment are also unknown. Here we show that a 2h long immersion in 0.25% and 0.50% (vol/vol) alcohol at 24h post fertilization significantly increases the distance among members of freely swimming groups of zebrafish when measured at 70 days post fertilization. We also show that this impaired behavior is accompanied by reduced levels of dopamine, DOPAC, serotonin and 5HIAA as quantified by HPLC from whole brain extracts. Our results demonstrate that even very low concentrations of alcohol applied for a short period of time during the development of zebrafish can impair behavior and brain function. We argue that the observed behavioral impairment is not likely to be due to altered performance capabilities, e.g. motor function or perception, but possibly to social behavior itself. We also argue that our neurochemical data represent the first step towards understanding the mechanisms of this abnormality in zebrafish, which may lead to better modeling of, and ultimately perhaps better therapies for human FAS.
Orexin A and orexin B (also known as hypocretin 1 and hypocretin 2) are hypothalamic neuropeptides that we discovered thirteen years ago. Initially, these peptides were recognized as regulators of feeding behavior. Subsequently, several studies suggested that orexin deficiency causes narcolepsy in humans and other mammalian species, highlighting roles of this hypothalamic neuropeptide in the regulation of sleep and wakefulness. Studies of efferent and afferent systems of orexin-producing neurons have shown that the orexin neuronal system has close interactions with systems that regulate emotion, energy homeostasis, reward, and arousal. These observations suggest that orexin neurons are involved in sensing the body's external and internal environments, and regulate vigilance states accordingly.
Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is commonly used for the treatment of hepatobiliary disorders. In this study, we tested whether a 4-week treatment with this bile acid (12-15mg/kg/day) could improve hepatic fatty acid oxidation in obese Zucker rats - a model for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and steatosis. After 24h of fasting, livers were perfused with physiological concentrations of [U-(13) C]nonesterified fatty acids and [3-(13) C]lactate/[3-(13) C]pyruvate. Steatosis was associated with abundant intracellular glucose, lactate, alanine and methionine, and low concentrations of choline and betaine. Steatotic livers also showed the highest output of glucose and lactate. Glucose and glycolytic products were mostly unlabeled, indicating active glycogenolysis and glycolysis after 24h of fasting. UDCA treatment resulted in a general amelioration of liver metabolic abnormalities with a decrease in intracellular glucose and lactate, as well as their output. Hepatic betaine and methionine were also normalized after UDCA treatment, suggesting the amelioration of anti-oxidative defenses. Choline levels were not affected by the bile acid, which may indicate a deficient synthesis of very-low-density lipoproteins. The percentage contribution of [U-(13) C]nonesterified fatty acids to acetyl-coenzyme A entering the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle was significantly lower in livers from Zucker obese rats relative to control rats: 23.14.9% versus 44.12.7% (p&lt;0.01). UDCA treatment did not alter significantly fatty acid oxidation in control rats, but improved significantly oxidation in Zucker obese rats to 46.06.1% (p&gt;0.05), comparable with control group values. The TCA cycle activity subsequent to fatty acid oxidation was reduced in steatotic livers and improved when UDCA was administered (0.240.04 versus 0.370.05, p=0.05). We further suggest that the mechanism of action of UDCA is either related to the activity of the farnesoid receptor, or to the amelioration of the anti-oxidative defenses and cell nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+) /NADH) ratio, favoring TCA cycle activity and -oxidation.
In conditions of ischemia/reperfusion (I/R), the relative use of all available substrates by the heart has a significant effect on the recovery of the organ. This substrate preference in perfused hearts is influenced by ischemia. We followed the metabolic fate of [U-(13) C]glucose and [3-(13) C]lactate in hearts preserved in Celsior (Cs) and histidine buffer solution (HBS) for 4 or 6h and subsequently perfused with a Krebs-Henseleit solution (KH) containing [U-(13) C]glucose and [3-(13) C]lactate. We also assessed gender-specific metabolic modulation in our I/R experimental conditions. Hearts from male and female Wistar rats (6-8 weeks) were subjected to moderate (0-240min) or prolonged (240-360min) cold ischemia whilst immersed in Cs and HBS, and perfused for 30min with KH containing [U-(13) C]glucose and [3-(13) C]lactate. After perfusion, hearts were freeze-clamped and metabolites were extracted for (13) C NMR isotopomer analysis. In control conditions, there were no differences with regard to lactate origin in hearts from males and females. After 6h of preservation in Cs, lactate origin was mostly from [U-(13) C]glucose in hearts from males and from [3-(13) C]lactate in hearts from females. During the 6h of organ preservation in HBS, the lactate pool showed a strong contribution from unenriched sources in male hearts and from [U-(13) C]glucose in female hearts. The glutamate C2/C4 ratio was stable or increased in hearts from females after I/R, and the alanine index increased in hearts from both males and females. Octanoate was, as predicted, the preferential substrate during perfusion. Glucose and lactate suffer a distinct metabolic fate in our I/R conditions, which is related to the cardioplegic solution used during organ storage, and the gender. Hearts from females appear to be less sensitive to I/R injury, and heart preservation in HBS proved to be effective in enhancing anaplerosis during perfusion, especially in hearts from females.

Congenital cerebral hypomyelination includes a group of genetic disorders, such as Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (PMD), and is characterized by hypomyelination of the cerebral white matter. Until recently, no classification system was available for congenital hypomyelination disorders that are clinically and genetically excluded for PMD. However, the establishment of new disease entities with gene discoveries has generated a clinical need for a new classification and diagnostic criteria for this group of disorders. Here, we review the recent findings on congenital cerebral hypomyelination, which includes 11 diseases, with a novel disease classification and diagnostic criteria with flow charts.


Recent studies strongly support the hypothesis that an antioxidant diet inhibits the pathologic aging process as shown in senescence-accelerated mouse prone 8 (SAM/P-8). In our previous study in coral calcium hydride (CCH), we reported that a diet rich in antioxidants inhibited the pathologic aging process, increased the endogenous antioxidant ability, and contributed to prolonging the lifespan of SAM/P-8. To test the hypothesis that antioxidant CCH supplementation to SAM/P-8 mice would change the gene expression and to understand how CCH reverses the acceleration of aging in SAM/P-8 mice, we used a DNA array to compare the expression levels in the hippocampus of the brains from 16-week-old SAM/P-8 mice that were either treated or not treated with CCH. The most significant up-regulated changes in the gene network of SAM/P-8 mice were free radical scavenging and molecular transport, whereas genes associated with cell death, cancer, and cell cycle were down-regulated. Our findings regarding the changes in these messenger RNA might be associated with the inhibition of the acceleration of aging, as observed in SAM/P-8 mice fed a CCH diet.
High adiposity in middle age is associated with higher dementia risk. The association between weight loss and cognitive function in older adults is still controversial. A meta-analysis was undertaken to estimate the effectiveness of intentional weight loss on cognitive function in overweight and obese adults. A structured strategy was used to search randomized and non-randomized studies reporting the effect of intentional and significant weight loss on cognitive function in overweight and obese subjects. Information on study design, age, nutritional status, weight-loss strategy, weight lost and cognitive testing was extracted. A random-effect meta-analysis was conducted to obtain summary effect estimates for memory and attention-executive domains. Twelve studies met inclusion criteria. Seven were randomized trials and the remaining five included a control group. A low-order significant effect was found for an improvement in cognitive performance with weight loss in memory (effect size 0.13, 95% CI 0.00-0.26, P=0.04) and attention/executive functioning (effect size 0.14, 95% CI 0.01-0.27, P&lt;0.001). Studies were heterogeneous in study design, sample selection, weight-loss intervention and assessment of cognitive function. Weight loss appears to be associated with low-order improvements in executive/attention functioning and memory in obese but not in overweight individuals.
Y2 receptors, particularly those in the brain, have been implicated in neuropeptide Y (NPY)-mediated effects on energy homeostasis and bone mass. Recent evidence also indicates a role for Y2 receptors in peripheral tissues in this process by promoting adipose tissue accretion; however their effects on energy balance remain unclear. Here, we show that adult-onset conditional knockdown of Y2 receptors predominantly in peripheral tissues results in protection against diet-induced obesity accompanied by significantly reduced weight gain, marked reduction in adiposity and improvements in glucose tolerance without any adverse effect on lean mass or bone. These changes occur in association with significant increases in energy expenditure, respiratory exchange ratio, and physical activity and despite concurrent hyperphagia. On a chow diet, knockdown of peripheral Y2 receptors results in increased respiratory exchange ratio and physical activity with no effect on lean or bone mass, but decreases energy expenditure without effecting body weight or food intake. These results suggest that peripheral Y2 receptor signaling is critical in the regulation of oxidative fuel selection and physical activity and protects against the diet-induced obesity. The lack of effects on bone mass seen in this model further indicates that bone mass is primarily controlled by non-peripheral Y2 receptors. This study provides evidence that novel drugs that target peripheral rather than central Y2 receptors could provide benefits for the treatment of obesity and glucose intolerance without adverse effects on lean and bone mass, with the additional benefit of avoiding side effects often associated with pharmaceuticals that act on the central nervous system.
Glioblastomas (GBM) are the most lethal subtype of astrocytomas, with a mean patient survival rate of 12 months after diagnosis. The gold standard treatment of GBM, which includes surgery followed by the combination of radiotherapy and chemotherapy with temozolomide (TMZ), increases the survival rate to 14.6 months. The success of TMZ appears to be limited by the occurrence of chemoresistance that allows glioma cells to escape from death signaling pathways. However, the mechanism of TMZ action is yet to be clarified although some controversial results have been reported. Therefore, our aim was to evaluate the occurrence of apoptosis and autophagy in glioma cells treated with TMZ and to correlate TMZ action with the survival pathways Pi3K/Akt and ERK1/2 MAP kinase. Cell proliferation was evaluated by incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine. Apoptosis was studied by flow cytometry as well as by fluorescence confocal microscopy in order to evaluate the sub G0/G1 percentage of cells and chromatin condensation. The expression of the autophagy-associated protein, LC3, as well as Akt and ERK1/2 was performed by Western blotting. In TMZ-treated GBM cells the expression of LC3, the autophagy-associated protein was increased and only a reduced percentage of cells underwent apoptosis. In addition, we showed that the phosphorylation status of Pi3K/Akt and ERK1/2 MAP kinase was maintained during the treatment with TMZ, suggesting that glioma cells escape from TMZ-induced cell death due to these signaling pathways. The chemoresistance of U-118 cells to TMZ was partially eradicated when cells were simultaneously treated with specific inhibitors of Pi3K/Akt and ERK1/2 MAP kinase signaling pathways and TMZ. Therefore, we hypothesized that in order to induce glioma cell death it is essential to evaluate the activation of the survival pathways and establish a combined therapy using TMZ and inhibitors of those signaling pathways.



Managing acute procedural pain effectively in preterm infants in the neonatal intensive care unit remains a significant problem. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the efficacy of breastfeeding for reducing pain and to determine if breastfeeding skills were altered after this treatment. Fifty-seven infants born at 30-36 weeks gestational age were randomized to be breastfed (BF) or to be given a soother during blood collection. Changes in the Behavioral Indicators of Infant Pain (BIIP) and in mean heart rate (HR) across 3 phases of blood collection were measured. In the BF group, the Premature Infant Breastfeeding Behaviors (PIBBS) scale was scored before and 24 hours after blood collection. Longitudinal regression analysis was used to compare changes in Lance/squeeze and Recovery phases of blood collection between groups, with gestational age at birth, baseline BIIP scores, and mean HR included as covariates. Differences in PIBBS scores were assessed using a paired t-test. Relationships between PIBBS scores, BIIP scores, and HR were evaluated with Pearson correlations. No differences between treatment groups were found: BIIP (P=0.44, confidence interval [CI] -1.60-0.69); HR (P=0.73, CI -7.0-10.0). Infants in the BF group showed improved PIBBS scores after the treatment (P&lt;0.01, CI -2.7 to -0.2). Lower BIIP scores during the Lance/squeeze were associated significantly with more mature sucking patterns (r=-0.39, P&lt;0.05). Breastfeeding during blood collection did not reduce pain indices or interfere with the acquisition of breastfeeding skills. Exploratory analyses indicate there may be benefit for infants with mature breastfeeding abilities.
Lumbar disc hernia (LDH) is a leading cause of chronic pain in adults. The underlying pathology of chronic pain after discectomy remains unclear. Chronic local inflammation is considered to underlie painful symptomatology. In this context, we investigated tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-, TNF receptor 1 (TNFR1), and TNF receptor 2 (TNFR2) expression at the time of surgery in LDH patients and correlated it with the severity of postoperative pain. We analyzed protein and mRNA levels from muscle, ligamentum flavum (LF), annulus fibrosus (AF), and nucleus pulposus (NP) in LDH patients and scoliosis patients (SP), who served as controls. Pain assessment with the visual analogue scale (VAS) was performed 1 day before surgery and 6 weeks and 12 months postoperatively. TNF- protein levels were detected in AF, LF, and NP in all LDH patients, but not in SP. TNF- mRNA was significantly greater in LDH patients than in SP; ie, 5-fold in AF, 3-fold in NP, and 2-fold in LF. For NP, TNF- protein levels correlated with VAS scores (r=0.54 at 6-week and r=0.65 at 12-month follow-up). Also, TNFR1 protein levels in NP positively correlated with VAS scores (r=0.75 at 6-week and r=0.80 at 12-month follow-up). However, TNFR2 protein levels in AF negatively correlated with VAS scores (r=-0.60 at 6 weeks and r=-0.60 at 12 months follow-up). These data indicate that TNF- levels could determine the clinical outcome in LDH patients after discectomy. Moreover, the opposite correlation of TNF receptors with pain sensation suggests that an unbalanced expression plays a role in the generation of pain.
SUMMARYMultiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic disease of the CNS characterized by inflammation, demyelination and axonal injury. In addition to the well-recognized features of the disease such as weakness, fatigue and paralysis, patients with MS may also experience a number of other comorbid disorders. Chronic pain, anxiety and depression affect a large percentage of MS patients. While a number of animal models are available to study the pathophysiology of MS, it is only recently that these models have been used to ask questions about other comorbid conditions associated with the disease. We will now summarize some of the major findings in this area. Although these animal models have been in use for many decades, it is clear that they are still capable of addressing novel and clinically relevant questions about the disease.

While Movement Disorders Society Unified Parkinson's Disease rating scale (MDS-UPDRS) validation has been exhaustive; performance evaluation to detect acute changes arising after administration of a single dose of L-dopa has yet to be explored. To determine the correlation between UPDRS and MDS-UPDRS during the acute challenge with Ldopa and the MDS-UPDRS equivalent to 30% cutoff score of UPDRS for defining responsiveness, 64 patients were assessed. Consecutive assessments were performed immediately before and after administration of a single dose of L-dopa/carbidopa 250/25 mg using the motor section of the UPDRS and the MDS-UPDRS. Good diagnostic accuracy, consistent with published findings of high correlation between scales was observed. Area under the curve (AUC) was 0.99 (CI = 0.97-1.00, P &lt; 0.001) and maximum Youden index (Y = 0.905) corresponded to a cutoff of 24.5%. In conclusion we have found an excellent correlation between UPDRS and MDS-UPDRS and that the 30% of variation in UPDRS score used for predicting sustained long term L-dopa response was equivalent to 24% in MDS-UPDRS.

Ghrelin is a pleiotropic hormone that was originally described as promoting feeding and stimulating growth hormone release in adults. A growing body of evidence suggests that ghrelin may also exert developmental and organizational effects during perinatal life. The perinatal actions of ghrelin include the regulation of early developmental events such as blastocyst development and perinatal growth. Moreover, alterations in perinatal ghrelin levels result in structural differences in various peripheral organs, such as the pancreas and gastrointestinal tract. Recent data have also suggested that ghrelin acts on appetite-related brain centers in early life. Together, these observations indicate that exposure to factors that alter how ghrelin impacts development may induce lasting effects on physiological regulation.
The incidence of obesity is increasing at an alarming rate and this worldwide epidemic represents a significant decrease in life span and quality of life of a large part of the affected population. Therefore an understanding of mechanisms underlying food overconsumption and obesity development is urgent and essential to find potential treatments. Research investigating mechanisms underlying obesity and the control of food intake has recently experienced a major shift in focus, from the brain's hypothalamus to additional important neural circuits controlling emotion, cognition and motivated behavior. Among them, the mesolimbic system, and the changes in reward and motivated behavior for food, emerge as new promising treatment targets. Furthermore, there is also growing appreciation of the impact of peripheral hormones that signal nutrition status to the mesolimbic areas, and especially the only known circulating orexigenic hormone, ghrelin. This review article provides a synthesis of recent evidence concerning the impact of manipulation of ghrelin and its receptor on models of food reward/food motivation behavior and the mesolimbic circuitry. Particular attention is given to the potential neurocircuitry and neurotransmitter systems downstream of ghrelin's effects on food reward.
Among the factors playing a crucial role in the regulation of energy metabolism, gastro-intestinal peptides are essential signals to maintain energy homeostasis as they relay to the central nervous system the informations about the nutritional status of the body. Among these factors, preproghrelin is a unique prohormone as it encodes ghrelin, a powerful GH secretagogue and the only orexigenic signal from the gastrointestinal tract and obestatin, a proposed functional ghrelin antagonist. These preproghrelin-derived peptides may contribute to balance energy intake, metabolism and body composition by regulating the activity of the GH/IGF-1 axis and appetite. Whereas the contribution of ghrelin has been well characterized, the role of the more recently identified obestatin, in this regulatory process is still controversial. In this chapter, we describe the contribution of these different preproghrelin-derived peptides and their receptors in the regulation of GH secretion and feeding. Data obtained from pharmacological approaches, mutant models and evaluation of the hormones in animal and human models are discussed.
The therapeutic potential of ghrelin and synthetic ghrelin receptor (GRLN-R) agonists for the treatment of gastrointestinal (GI) motility disorders is based on their ability to stimulate coordinated patterns of propulsive GI motility. This review focuses on the latest findings that support the therapeutic potential of GRLN-R agonists for the treatment of GI motility disorders. The review highlights the preclinical and clinical prokinetic effects of ghrelin and a series of novel ghrelin mimetics to exert prokinetic effects on the GI tract. We build upon a series of excellent reviews to critically discuss the evidence that supports the potential of GRLN-R agonists to normalize GI motility in patients with GI hypomotility disorders such as gastroparesis, post-operative ileus (POI), idiopathic chronic constipation and functional bowel disorders.
We studied the inhibitory effects of transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1) activation by capsaicin on low-voltage-activated (LVA, T-type) Ca(2+) channel and high-voltage-activated (HVA; L, N, P/Q, R) currents in rat DRG sensory neurons, as a potential mechanism underlying capsaicin-induced analgesia. T-type and HVA currents were elicited in whole-cell clamped DRG neurons using ramp commands applied before and after 30-s exposures to 1M capsaicin. T-type currents were estimated at the first peak of the I-V characteristics and HVA at the second peak, occurring at more positive potentials. Small and medium-sized DRG neurons responded to capsaicin producing transient inward currents of variable amplitudes, mainly carried by Ca(2+). In those cells responding to capsaicin with a large Ca(2+) influx (59% of the total), a marked inhibition of both T-type and HVA Ca(2+) currents was observed. The percentage of T-type and HVA channel inhibition was prevented by replacing Ca(2+) with Ba(2+) during capsaicin application or applying high doses of intracellular BAPTA (20mM), suggesting that TRPV1-mediated inhibition of T-type and HVA channels is Ca(2+)-dependent and likely confined to membrane nano-microdomains. Our data are consistent with the idea that TRPV1-induced analgesia may derive from indirect inhibition of both T-type and HVA channels which, in turn, would reduce the threshold of nociceptive signals generation (T-type channel inhibition) and nociceptive synaptic transmission (HVA-channels inhibition).
TRPV1 is a Ca(2+) permeable cation channel gated by multiple stimuli including noxious heat, capsaicin, protons, and extracellular cations. In this paper, we show that Ca(2+) causes a concentration and voltage-dependent decrease in the capsaicin-gated TRPV1 single-channel conductance. This Ca(2+)-dependent effect on conductance was strongest at membrane potentials between -60 and +20mV, but was diminished at more hyperpolarised potentials. Using simultaneous recordings of membrane current and fura-2 fluorescence to measure the fractional Ca(2+) current of whole-cell currents evoked through wild-type and mutant TRPV1, we investigated a possible link between the mechanisms underlying Ca(2+) permeation and the Ca(2+)-dependent effect on conductance. Surprisingly, we found no evidence of a structural correlation, and observed that the substitution of amino acids known to regulate Ca(2+) permeability had little effect on the ability for Ca(2+) to decrease TRPV1 conductance. However, we did observe that the Ca(2+)-dependent effect on conductance was not diminished by negative hyperpolarisation for a mutant receptor with severely impaired Ca(2+) permeability, TRPV1-D646N/E648Q/E651Q. This would be consistent with the idea that Ca(2+) reduces conductance by interacting with an intra-pore binding site, and that negative hyperpolarization reduces occupancy of this site by speeding the exit of Ca(2+) into the cell. Taken together, our data show that in addition to directly and indirectly regulating channel gating, Ca(2+) also directly reduces the conductance of TRPV1. Surprisingly, the mechanism underlying this Ca(2+)-dependent effect on conductance is largely independent of mechanisms governing Ca(2+) permeability.

Postpartum female rodents are less anxious than diestrous virgins and this difference contributes to dams' ability to adequately care for pups and defend the nest. Low postpartum anxiety has been observed in many behavioral paradigms but the results of previous studies using the light-dark box have been inconsistent. We here reexamined the usefulness of the light-dark box to assess differences between postpartum and diestrous virgin female rats in their anxiety-related behavior. We found a significant effect of reproductive state, such that dams spent more time in the light chamber than did diestrous virgins. This difference required recent physical contact with pups because a four-hour separation from pups reduced dams' time spent in the light chamber by half, similar to what we previously found for litter-separated dams tested in an elevated plus maze. We then examined if dams' low-anxiety behavior in the light-dark box depends on high GABA(A) receptor activity by inhibiting the receptor at different binding sites using (+)-Bicuculline to target the GABA site, FG-7142 to target the benzodiazepine site, and pentylenetetrazol to target the picrotoxin site. Only pentylenetetrazol was consistently anxiogenic in dams, while having little effect in diestrous virgins. Thus, the light-dark box can be a useful paradigm to study differences between postpartum and diestrous virgin female rats in their anxiety-related behaviors, and this difference is influenced by dams' recent contact with pups and GABA(A) receptor neurotransmission particularly affected by activity at the picrotoxin site.
The extracts of earth worms, Eisenia andrei, have been used as a therapeutic agent for stroke in the traditional medicine. It is also reported that the protease fraction separated from the extracts has strong anti-thrombotic activity. Besides anti-thrombotic actions, we found that SP-8203, N-[3-(2,4-dioxo-1,4-dihydro-2H-quinazolin-3-yl)propyl]-N-{4-[3-(2,4-dioxo-1,4-dihydro-2H-quinazolin-3-yl)propylamino]butyl}acetamide, derived from the extracts of earth worms blocked N-methyl-(D)-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated excitotoxicity in a competitive manner. The neuroprotective effects of SP-8203 were attributable to prevention of Ca(2+) influx through NMDA receptors. The systemic administration of SP-8203 markedly reduced neuronal death following middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. SP-8203 significantly improved spatial learning and memory in the water maze test. These results provided strong pharmacological basis for its potential therapeutic roles in cerebral ischemia.
Adolescence is a developmental period characterized by neuronal remodeling and the maturation of adult emotionality, reproductive behavior and social behavior. We examined whether chronic cannabinoid exposure in adolescent rats alters female sexual motivation, estrous cyclicity, sucrose preference, and CB(1)R expression in adulthood. Female rats were administered with the synthetic cannabinoid agonist, CP-55,940 (0.4 mg/kg, intraperitoneal), daily during adolescent development (PND 35-45). In a subset of subjects, socio-sexual motivation was investigated in adulthood (PND 75-86) using a runway apparatus. Estrous cyclicity was tracked in adulthood via vaginal cytology and a single-mount test. A two-bottle sucrose preference test was also conducted to determine whether predicted changes in socio-sexual motivation might be linked to alterations in hedonic processing. CB(1)R expression was examined in two separate subsets of subjects, one sacrificed following drug treatment (PND 46) and one before behavioral testing (PND 74). Drug treatment significantly decreased adult preference for a male conspecific (sexual motivation), as assessed by both Run Time and Proximity Time, but did not affect estrous cyclicity or sucrose preference. CP-55,940 treatment also induced immediate, but transient, decreases in CB(1)R expression in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus and amygdala. Drug treatment did not affect CB(1)R expression in the nucleus accumbens (core or shell) or globus pallidus at either time point. We suggest that the endocannabinoid system may play a role in the maturation of neuroendocrine axes and adult female reproductive behavior, and that chronic exposure to cannabinoids during adolescence disrupts these neurodevelopmental processes.
Quinolinic acid (QUIN), kynurenine acid (KYNA) and 3-hydroxykynurenine (3-HK) - metabolites of the kynurenine pathway are considered to be associated with many central nervous system diseases. However, in neuroscience research in order to test neurotoxicity or neuroprotection against these compounds only primary cell models are available. In this investigation we aimed to develop a simple, rapid and accurate cellular in vitro model using immortalized human neuroblastoma cell lines, namely SK-N-SH and SH-SY5Y differentiated by treatment with various agents. In order to alter the cell response to the neurotoxins, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and retinoic acid (RA) as differentiating agents and modulation of the cellular metabolism through changing the sugar composition from galactose to glucose in media were used. Our results indicated that although RA-differentiation of both cell lines induced the expression of neuronal features, cell vulnerability after exposure to control neurotoxicants (salsolinol, 6-hydroxydopamine) and 3-HK was decreased in comparison to untreated cells and was not influenced after exposure to QUIN and KYNA. Interestingly, the same observations were done in cells grown in galactose containing media.

Randomly connected networks of neurons exhibit a transition from fixed-point to chaotic activity as the variance of their synaptic connection strengths is increased. In this study, we analytically evaluate how well a small external input can be reconstructed from a sparse linear readout of network activity. At the transition point, known as the edge of chaos, networks display a number of desirable features, including large gains and integration times. Away from this edge, in the nonchaotic regime that has been the focus of most models and studies, gains and integration times fall off dramatically, which implies that parameters must be fine tuned with considerable precision if high performance is required. Here we show that, near the edge, decoding performance is characterized by a critical exponent that takes a different value on the two sides. As a result, when the network units have an odd saturating nonlinear response function, the falloff in gains and integration times is much slower on the chaotic side of the transition. This means that, under appropriate conditions, good performance can be achieved with less fine tuning beyond the edge, within the chaotic regime.

Time-variant partial directed coherence (tvPDC) is used for the first time in a multivariate analysis of heart rate variability (HRV), respiratory movements (RMs) and (systolic) arterial blood pressure. It is shown that respiration-related HRV components which also occur at other frequencies besides the RM frequency (= respiratory sinus arrhythmia, RSA) can be identified. These additional components are known to be an effect of the 'half-the-mean-heart-rate-dilemma' ('cardiac aliasing' CA). These CA components may contaminate the entire frequency range of HRV and can lead to misinterpretation of the RSA analysis. TvPDC analysis of simulated and clinical data (full-term neonates and sedated patients) reveals these contamination effects and, in addition, the respiration-related CA components can be separated from the RSA component and the Traube-Hering-Mayer wave. It can be concluded that tvPDC can be beneficially applied to avoid misinterpretations in HRV analyses as well as to quantify partial correlative interaction properties between RM and RSA.
The aim of this study is to analyse an effective wavelet method for denoising and tracking temporal variations of the auditory brainstem response (ABR). The rapid and accurate extraction of ABRs in clinical practice has numerous benefits, including reductions in clinical test times and potential long-term patient monitoring applications. One method of achieving rapid extraction is through the application of wavelet filtering which, according to earlier research, has shown potential in denoising signals with low signal-to-noise ratios. The research documented in this paper evaluates the application of three such wavelet approaches on a common set of ABR data collected from eight participants. We introduced the use of the latency-intensity curve of ABR wave V for performance evaluation of tracking temporal variations. The application of these methods to the ABR required establishing threshold functions and time windows as an integral part of the research. Results revealed that the cyclic-shift-tree-denoising performed superior compared to other tested approaches. This required an ensemble of only 32 epochs to extract a fully featured ABR compared to the 1024 epochs with conventional ABR extraction based on linear moving time averaging.
An often addressed challenge in neuroscience research is the assignment of different tasks to specific brain regions. In many cases several brain regions are activated during a single task. Therefore, one is also interested in the temporal evolution of brain activity to infer causal relations between activated brain regions. These causal relations may be described by a directed, task specific network which consists of activated brain regions as vertices and directed edges. The edges describe the causal relations. Inference of the task specific brain network from measurements like electroencephalography (EEG) or functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is challenging, due to the low spatial resolution of the former and the low temporal resolution of the latter. Here, we present a simulation study investigating a possible combined analysis of simultaneously measured EEG and fMRI data to address the challenge specified above. A nonlinear state space model is used to distinguish between the underlying brain states and the (simulated) EEG/fMRI measurements. We make use of a modified unscented Kalman filter and a corresponding unscented smoother for the estimation of the underlying neural activity. Model parameters are estimated using an expectation-maximization algorithm, which exploits the partial linearity of our model. Inference of the brain network structure is then achieved using directed partial correlation, a measure for Granger causality. The results indicate that the convolution effect of the fMRI forward model imposes a big challenge for the parameter estimation and reduces the influence of the fMRI in combined EEG-fMRI models. It remains to be investigated whether other models or similar combinations of other modalities such as, e.g., EEG and magnetoencephalography can increase the profit of the promising idea of combining various modalities.
The study of synchronization phenomena in coupled dynamical systems is an active field of research in many scientific disciplines including the neurosciences. Over the last decades, a number of time series analysis techniques have been proposed to capture both linear and nonlinear aspects of interactions. While most of these techniques allow one to quantify the strength of interactions, developments that resulted from advances in nonlinear dynamics and in information and synchronization theory aim at assessing directed interactions. Most of these techniques, however, assume the underlying systems to be at least approximately stationary and require a large number of data points to robustly assess directed interactions. Recent extensions allow assessing directed interactions from short and transient signals and are particularly suited for the analysis of evoked and event-related activity.
Laser-Doppler flowmetry (LDF) is an outstanding tool to monitor blood flow in a continuous and non-invasive way. In this work, we study LDF at large interoptode spacing applied to a human bone model (i.e. tibia diaphysis). To that aim, we first performed an extensive set of Monte Carlo (MC) simulations for 10 and 25 mm interoptode spacing. Second, we have assembled a dedicated LDF instrumentation based on an optimized industrial avalanche photo-detector. We performed LDF experimental measurements on human muscle using well-known physiological protocols, which confirmed the reliability of our instrumentation and the relevance of the LDF algorithms tested with the MC simulations. In a second set, we repeated the measurements on human tibia diaphysis. Again, the experiments corroborate the MC simulations and demonstrate the effectiveness of LDF to monitor blood perfusion in bone. The proposed technique has great potential for non-invasive neuro-vascular studies since it will certainly help to reveal the mechanisms underlying the interaction between bone/bone marrow, the circulatory system and the nervous system.
The organization of computations in networks of spiking neurons in the brain is still largely unknown, in particular in view of the inherently stochastic features of their firing activity and the experimentally observed trial-to-trial variability of neural systems in the brain. In principle there exists a powerful computational framework for stochastic computations, probabilistic inference by sampling, which can explain a large number of macroscopic experimental data in neuroscience and cognitive science. But it has turned out to be surprisingly difficult to create a link between these abstract models for stochastic computations and more detailed models of the dynamics of networks of spiking neurons. Here we create such a link and show that under some conditions the stochastic firing activity of networks of spiking neurons can be interpreted as probabilistic inference via Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling. Since common methods for MCMC sampling in distributed systems, such as Gibbs sampling, are inconsistent with the dynamics of spiking neurons, we introduce a different approach based on non-reversible Markov chains that is able to reflect inherent temporal processes of spiking neuronal activity through a suitable choice of random variables. We propose a neural network model and show by a rigorous theoretical analysis that its neural activity implements MCMC sampling of a given distribution, both for the case of discrete and continuous time. This provides a step towards closing the gap between abstract functional models of cortical computation and more detailed models of networks of spiking neurons.
Autosomal-dominant (AD) polycystic kidney disease (PKD) is a leading cause of renal failure in the United States, and currently lacks available treatment options to slow disease progression. Mutations in the gene coding for polycystin-1 (PC1) underlie the majority of cases but the function of PC1 has remained poorly understood. We have previously shown that PC1 regulates the transcriptional activity of signal transducer and activator of transcription-6 (STAT6). Here we show that STAT6 is aberrantly activated in cyst-lining cells in PKD mouse models. Activation of the STAT6 pathway leads to a positive feedback loop involving auto/paracrine signaling by IL13 and the IL4/13 receptor. The presence of IL13 in cyst fluid and the overexpression of IL4/13 receptor chains suggests a mechanism of sustained STAT6 activation in cysts. Genetic inactivation of STAT6 in a PKD mouse model leads to significant inhibition of proliferation and cyst growth and preservation of renal function. We show that the active metabolite of leflunomide, a drug approved for treatment of arthritis, inhibits STAT6 in renal epithelial cells. Treatment of PKD mice with this drug leads to amelioration of the renal cystic disease similar to genetic STAT6 inactivation. These results suggest STAT6 as a promising drug target for treatment of ADPKD.
The simplicity and accessibility of the olfactory systems of insects underlie a body of research essential to understanding not only olfactory function but also general principles of sensory processing. As insect olfactory neurobiology takes advantage of a variety of species separated by millions of years of evolution, the field naturally has yielded some conflicting results. Far from impeding progress, the varieties of insect olfactory systems reflect the various natural histories, adaptations to specific environments, and the roles olfaction plays in the life of the species studied. We review current findings in insect olfactory neurobiology, with special attention to differences among species. We begin by describing the olfactory environments and olfactory-based behaviors of insects, as these form the context in which neurobiological findings are interpreted. Next, we review recent work describing changes in olfactory systems as adaptations to new environments or behaviors promoting speciation. We proceed to discuss variations on the basic anatomy of the antennal (olfactory) lobe of the brain and higher-order olfactory centers. Finally, we describe features of olfactory information processing including gain control, transformation between input and output by operations such as broadening and sharpening of tuning curves, the role of spiking synchrony in the antennal lobe, and the encoding of temporal features of encounters with an odor plume. In each section, we draw connections between particular features of the olfactory neurobiology of a species and the animal's life history. We propose that this perspective is beneficial for insect olfactory neurobiology in particular and sensory neurobiology in general.
There is an increasing recognition that following traumatic brain injury, a cascade of inflammatory mediators is produced, and contributes to the pathological consequences of central nervous system injury. This review summarises the key literature from pre-clinical models that underlies our understanding of innate inflammation following traumatic brain injury before focussing on the growing evidence from human studies. In addition, the underlying molecular mediators responsible for blood brain barrier dysfunction have been discussed. In particular, we have highlighted the different sampling methodologies available and the difficulties in interpreting human data of this sort. Ultimately, understanding the innate inflammatory response to traumatic brain injury may provide a therapeutic avenue in the treatment of central nervous system disease.
We describe the results of quantitative information theoretic analyses of neural encoding, particularly in the primate visual, olfactory, taste, hippocampal, and orbitofrontal cortex. Most of the information turns out to be encoded by the firing rates of the neurons, that is by the number of spikes in a short time window. This has been shown to be a robust code, for the firing rate representations of different neurons are close to independent for small populations of neurons. Moreover, the information can be read fast from such encoding, in as little as 20 ms. In quantitative information theoretic studies, only a little additional information is available in temporal encoding involving stimulus-dependent synchronization of different neurons, or the timing of spikes within the spike train of a single neuron. Feature binding appears to be solved by feature combination neurons rather than by temporal synchrony. The code is sparse distributed, with the spike firing rate distributions close to exponential or gamma. A feature of the code is that it can be read by neurons that take a synaptically weighted sum of their inputs. This dot product decoding is biologically plausible. Understanding the neural code is fundamental to understanding not only how the cortex represents, but also processes, information.
Brain morphology and function are susceptible to various psysiological influences, including changes in the immune system. Inflammation and autoimmunity are two principal immunological responses that can compromise the function of multiple organs and tissues, including the central nervous system. The present article reviews clinical and experimental evidence pointing to structural brain damage induced by chronic autoimmune and/or inflammatory processes. Largely due to the vast complexity of neuroendocrine and immune systems, most of the principal pathogenic circuits are far from elucidated. In addition to summarizing the current knowledge, this article aims to highlight the importance of interdisciplinary research and combined efforts of physicians and scientists in revealing the intricate links between immunity and mental health.
Gliomas are primary tumors of the human central nervous system with unknown mechanisms of progression. Isocitrate dehydrogenase-1 (IDH1) mutation is frequent in diffuse gliomas such as oligodendrogliomas. To gain insights into the physiopathology of oligodendrogliomas that have a better prognosis than other diffuse gliomas, we combined microdissection, 2-D DIGE and MS/MS focusing on proteome alterations associated with IDH1 mutation. We first compared tumor tissues (TT) and minimally infiltrated parenchymal tissues (MIT) of four IDH1-mutated oligodendrogliomas to verify whether proteins specific to oligodendroglioma tumor cells could be identified from one patient to another. This study resulted in identification of 68 differentially expressed proteins, with functions related to growth of tumor cells in a nervous parenchyma. We then looked for proteins distinctly expressed in TT harboring either mutant (oligodendrogliomas, n=4) or wild-type IDH1 (oligodendroglial component of malignant glio-neuronal tumors, n=4). This second analysis resulted in identification of distinct proteome patterns composed of 42 proteins. Oligodendrogliomas with a mutant IDH1 had noteworthy enhanced expression of enzymes controlling aerobic glycolysis and detoxification, and anti-apoptosis proteins. In addition, the mutant IDH1 migrated differently from the wild-type IDH1 form. Comparative proteomic analysis might thus be suitable to identify proteome alterations associated with a well-defined mutation.
This article shows that artificial neural networks are used for confirming the relationships between physiological and cognitive changes. Specifically, we explore the influence of a decrease of neurotransmitters on the behaviour of old people in recognition tasks. This artificial neural network recognizes learned patterns. When we change the threshold of activation in some units, the artificial neural network simulates the experimental results of old people in recognition tasks. However, the main contributions of this paper are the design of an artificial neural network and its operation inspired by the nervous system and the way the inputs are coded and the process of orthogonalization of patterns.
Facial affect processing is essential to social development and functioning and is particularly relevant to models of depression. Although cognitive and interpersonal theories have long described different pathways to depression, cognitive-interpersonal and evolutionary social risk models of depression focus on the interrelation of interpersonal experience, cognition, and social behavior. We therefore review the burgeoning depressive facial affect processing literature and examine its potential for integrating disciplines, theories, and research. In particular, we evaluate studies in which information processing or cognitive neuroscience paradigms were used to assess facial affect processing in depressed and depression-susceptible populations. Most studies have assessed and supported cognitive models. This research suggests that depressed and depression-vulnerable groups show abnormal facial affect interpretation, attention, and memory, although findings vary based on depression severity, comorbid anxiety, or length of time faces are viewed. Facial affect processing biases appear to correspond with distinct neural activity patterns and increased depressive emotion and thought. Biases typically emerge in depressed moods but are occasionally found in the absence of such moods. Indirect evidence suggests that childhood neglect might cultivate abnormal facial affect processing, which can impede social functioning in ways consistent with cognitive-interpersonal and interpersonal models. However, reviewed studies provide mixed support for the social risk model prediction that depressive states prompt cognitive hypervigilance to social threat information. We recommend prospective interdisciplinary research examining whether facial affect processing abnormalities promote-or are promoted by-depressogenic attachment experiences, negative thinking, and social dysfunction.
We present a detailed framework for understanding the numerous and complicated interactions among psychological and social determinants of pain through examination of the process of pain communication. The focus is on an improved understanding of immediate dyadic transactions during painful events in the context of broader social phenomena. Fine-grain consideration of social transactions during pain leads to an appreciation of sociobehavioral events affecting both suffering persons as well as caregivers. Our examination considers knowledge from a variety of perspectives, including clinical health psychology, social and developmental processes, evolutionary psychology, communication studies, and behavioral neuroscience.



Generally, so-called control processes are thought to be necessary when we must perform one out of several competing actions. Some examples include performance of a less well-practiced action instead of a well-practiced one (prepotency); learning a new action (novelty); and rapidly switching from one action to another (task-switching). While it certainly is difficult to perform the desired action in these circumstances, it is less clear that a separate set of processes (e.g., control processes) are necessary to explain the observed behavior. Another way to approach the study of control processes is to investigate physiological dependent measures (e.g., electrophysiological or neuroimaging measures). Although these offer another avenue of inquiry into control processes, they have yet to furnish unambiguous evidence that control processes exist. While this might suggest that there are no control processes, it is also possible that our methods are insufficiently sensitive to measure control processes. We have investigated this latter possibility using tasks that are neuroanatomically distinct, though within the same modality (vision). This approach did not yield evidence for a separable set of control processes. However, recent works using a task-switching paradigm in which subjects switch between a visual and an auditory task suggest that switching both task and modality may be importantly different than switching task within a given modality. This may represent a way forward in the study of control processes.
An apparent clinical relationship between pain and depression has long been recognized. Depression and pain are often diagnosed in the same patients. The emerging concept for pain-depression pathogenesis is the dysfunction of biogenic amine-mediated pain-depression control and the possible involvement of nitrodative stress-induced neurogenic inflammation. The present study was designed to investigate the effect of curcumin on reserpine-induced pain-depression dyad in rats. Administration of reserpine (1mg/kg subcutaneous daily for three consecutive days) led to a significant decrease in nociceptive threshold as evident from reduced paw withdrawal threshold in Randall Sellitto and von-Frey hair test as well as significant increase in immobility time in forced swim test. This behavioural deficit was integrated with decrease in the biogenic amine (dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin) levels along with increased substance P concentration, nitrodative stress, inflammatory cytokines, NF- and caspase-3 levels in different brain regions (cortex and hippocampus) of the reserpinised rats. Curcumin (100, 200, 300mg/kg; ip) dose dependently ameliorated the behavioural deficits associated with pain and depression by restoring behavioural, biochemical, neurochemical and molecular alterations against reserpine-induced pain-depression dyad in rats.





The adaptive gain theory highlights the pivotal role of the locus coeruleus-noradrenergic (LC-NE) system in regulating task engagement. In humans, however, LC-NE functional dynamics remain largely unknown. We evaluated the utility of two candidate psychophysiological markers of LC-NE activity: the P3 event-related potential and pupil diameter. Electroencephalogram and pupillometry data were collected from 24 participants who performed a 37-min auditory oddball task. As predicted by the adaptive gain theory, prestimulus pupil diameter exhibited an inverted U-shaped relationship to P3 and task performance such that largest P3 amplitudes and optimal performance occurred at the same intermediate level of pupil diameter. Large phasic pupil dilations, by contrast, were elicited during periods of poor performance and were followed by reengagement in the task and increased P3 amplitudes. These results support recent proposals that pupil diameter and the P3 are sensitive to LC-NE mode.
We used an intermittent stimulus presentation to investigate event-related potential (ERP) components associated with perceptual reversals during binocular rivalry. The combination of spatiotemporal ERP analysis with source imaging and statistical parametric mapping of the concomitant source differences yielded differences in three time windows: reversals showed increased activity in early visual (120 ms) and in inferior frontal and anterior temporal areas (400-600 ms) and decreased activity in the ventral stream (250-350 ms). The combination of source imaging and statistical parametric mapping suggests that these differences were due to differences in generator strength and not generator configuration, unlike the initiation of reversals in right inferior parietal areas. These results are discussed within the context of the extensive network of brain areas that has been implicated in the initiation, implementation, and appraisal of bistable perceptual reversals.

Understanding fractions and decimals is difficult because whole numbers are the most frequently and earliest experienced type of number, and learners must avoid conceptualizing fractions and decimals in terms of their whole-number components (the &quot;whole-number bias&quot;). We explored the understanding of fractions, decimals, two-digit integers, and money in adults and 10-year-olds using two number line tasks: marking the line to indicate the target number, and estimating the numerical value of a mark on the line. Results were very similar for decimals, integers, and money in both tasks for both groups, demonstrating that the linear representation previously shown for integers is also evident for decimals already by the age of 10. Fractions seem to be &quot;task dependent&quot; so that when asked to place a fractional value on a line, both adults and children displayed a linear representation, while this pattern did not occur in the reverse task.
Two experiments explored lateralized biases in mental representations of matrix patterns formed from aural verbal descriptions. Healthy participants listened, either monaurally or binaurally, to verbal descriptions of 6 by 3 matrix patterns and were asked to form a mental representation of each pattern. In Experiment 1, participants were asked to judge which half of the matrix, left or right, contained more filled cells and to rate the certainty of their judgement. Participants tended to judge that the left side was fuller than the right and showed significantly greater certainty when judging patterns that were fuller on the left. This tendency was particularly strong for left-ear presentation. In Experiment 2, participants conducted the same task as that in Experiment 1 but were also asked to recall the pattern for the side judged as fuller. Participants were again more certain in judging patterns that were fuller on the left-particularly for left-ear presentation-but were no more accurate in remembering the details from the left. These results suggest that the left side of the mental representation was represented more saliently but it was not remembered more accurately. We refer to this lateralized bias as &quot;representational pseudoneglect&quot;. Results are discussed in terms of theories of visuospatial working memory.
Most laboratory-based prospective memory (PM) paradigms pose problems that are very different from those encountered in the real world. Several PM studies have reported conflicting results when comparing laboratory- with naturalistic-based studies (e.g., Bailey, Henry, Rendell, Phillips, &amp; Kliegel, 2010 ). One key contrast is that for the former, how and when the PM cue is encountered typically is determined by the experimenter, whereas in the latter case, cue availability is determined by participant actions. However, participant-driven access to the cue has not been examined in laboratory studies focused on healthy young adults, and its relationship with planned intentions is poorly understood. Here we report a study of PM performance in a controlled, laboratory setting, but with participant-driven actions leading to the availability of the PM cue. This uses a novel PM methodology based upon analysis of participant movements as they attempted a series of errands in a large virtual building on the computer screen. A PM failure was identified as a situation in which a participant entered and exited the &quot;cue&quot; area outside an errand related room without performing the required errand whilst still successfully remembering that errand post test. Additional individual difference measures assessed retrospective and working memory capacity, planning ability and PM. Multiple regression analysis showed that the independent measures of verbal working memory span, planning ability, and PM were significant predictors of PM failure. Correlational analyses with measures of planning suggest that sticking with an original plan (good or bad) is related to better overall PM performance.
The efficacy of current anti-cancer multimodal therapeutic strategies in gliomas is limited by the lack of specific therapies against malignant cells and the prognosis in patients affected by cerebral gliomas remains very unfavorable. Glial tumors seem to be able to create a favorable environment for the invasion of neoplastic cells when they combine with the extracellular matrix through the up-regulation of crucial pathways such as angiogenesis and invasion. The major problem in brain drug delivery is the presence of the blood brain barrier which limits the delivery of many chemotherapeutic agents and other kinds of therapeutic molecules. This event often contributes to the failure of the treatment. Nanoparticle systems can represent ideal devices for delivery of specific compounds to brain tumors across the blood brain barrier. The specificity of hybridization makes antisense method an interesting strategy to selectively modulate the expression of genes involved in tumorigenesis. In this review we will focus on the mechanisms of angiogenesis into gliomas, their importance into tumor progression and the possibilities to block these mechanisms with new nanoparticle-based therapeutic strategies. We will also report the results of preclinical and/or clinical studies that adopt nanoparticle-based antiangiogenic therapeutic approach in cerebral gliomas, considering also some patents deal with antiangiogenic strategy.

The Procedural Deficit Hypothesis (PDH) posits that Specific Language Impairment (SLI) can be largely explained by abnormalities of brain structures that subserve procedural memory. The PDH predicts impairments of procedural memory itself, and that such impairments underlie the grammatical deficits observed in the disorder. Previous studies have indeed reported procedural learning impairments in SLI, and have found that these are associated with grammatical difficulties. The present study extends this research by examining consolidation and longer-term procedural sequence learning in children with SLI. The Alternating Serial Reaction Time (ASRT) task was given to children with SLI and typically developing (TD) children in an initial learning session and an average of three days later to test for consolidation and longer-term learning. Although both groups showed evidence of initial sequence learning, only the TD children showed clear signs of consolidation, even though the two groups did not differ in longer-term learning. When the children were re-categorized on the basis of grammar deficits rather than broader language deficits, a clearer pattern emerged. Whereas both the grammar impaired and normal grammar groups showed evidence of initial sequence learning, only those with normal grammar showed consolidation and longer-term learning. Indeed, the grammar-impaired group appeared to lose any sequence knowledge gained during the initial testing session. These findings held even when controlling for vocabulary or a broad non-grammatical language measure, neither of which were associated with procedural memory. When grammar was examined as a continuous variable over all children, the same relationships between procedural memory and grammar, but not vocabulary or the broader language measure, were observed. Overall, the findings support and further specify the PDH. They suggest that consolidation and longer-term procedural learning are impaired in SLI, but that these impairments are specifically tied to the grammatical deficits in the disorder. The possibility that consolidation and longer-term learning are problematic in the disorder suggests a locus of potential study for therapeutic approaches. In sum, this study clarifies our understanding of the underlying deficits in SLI, and suggests avenues for further research.
The etiology of developmental dyslexia remains widely debated. An appealing theory postulates that the reading and spelling problems in individuals with dyslexia originate from reduced sensitivity to slow-rate dynamic auditory cues. This low-level auditory deficit is thought to provoke a cascade of effects, including inaccurate speech perception and eventually unspecified phoneme representations. The present study investigated sensitivity to frequency modulation and amplitude rise time, speech-in-noise perception and phonological awareness in 11-year-old children with dyslexia and a matched normal-reading control children. Group comparisons demonstrated that children with dyslexia were less sensitive than normal-reading children to slow-rate dynamic auditory processing, speech-in-noise perception, phonological awareness and literacy abilities. Correlations were found between slow-rate dynamic auditory processing and phonological awareness, and speech-in-noise perception and reading. Yet, no significant correlation between slow-rate dynamic auditory processing and speech-in-noise perception was obtained. Together, these results indicate that children with dyslexia have difficulties with slow-rate dynamic auditory processing and speech-in-noise perception and that these problems persist until sixth grade.
The tetrad of Parkinson's disease (PD) including tremor, rigidity, akinesia and postural instability are attributed to the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Both environmental factors and genetic predisposition are supposed to be implicated in the initiation and progression of the disease. Particularly, much attention has been focused on -synuclein (SYN) since SYN is not only found in Lewy bodies characteristic of PD, but also mutations in the gene for SYN can cause inherited forms of PD. Recent studies have shown that SYN can be secreted into the extracellular milieu, thereby propagate Lewy pathology to neighboring cells in a prion-like manner. This concept sounds attractive as an acceptable explanation for the stereotypic distribution of Lewy pathology in PD. In addition to the classic motor symptoms, a variety of non-motor manifestations may affect on the patient's quality of life. Of all, hyposmia is prevalent in PD and may precede the onset of motor symptoms. We found that odor identification test scores correlated positively with the impairment of short-term memory and visuospatial functions. Furthermore, our data from fear-conditioning experiment indicated that the key player in the processing of emotional memories appears to be the amygdala, which has tight connections to primary olfactory areas.
Accumulating evidence indicates that the pathogenesis of Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is tightly linked to misfolding a key protein. Antibody therapy aims to eliminate or compete with the pathogenic proteins, through either passive or active immunization. We and others have generated several monoclonal antibodies (MAb)s which recognize only misfolded SOD1, but not the wild-type. Several MAbs are reported to delay the progression of mutant SOD1 Tg mice by the intraventricular application, which is mediated by different pathways. The determination of the pathogenic domain is crucial to acquire the effect of MAb therapy. Single chain of fragment of variance of IgG (scFv) is attracting emerging attention due to its broad application, in which intracellular proteins can be targeted by Intrabody or the modification of MAb with translocation signals.

Protein misfolding and aggregation have been recognized as a common molecular pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and the polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases. The polyQ diseases, including Huntington's disease and various spinocerebellar ataxias, are caused by abnormal expansions of the polyQ stretch (&gt;35-40) within disease-causative proteins. Recently, defects in protein degradation in the brain have been shown to cause neurodegeneration in genetically-engineered mice, highlighting two important roles of protein degradation systems in neurodegenerative diseases; 1) their dysfunction in the pathogenesis and 2) their activation as a therapy. However, it is indispensable to eliminate only the pathogenic proteins to avoid deleterious side effects. Aiming to selectively degrade the expanded polyQ proteins, we employed QBP1, a peptide which specifically binds to the expanded polyQ stretch. We designed a chimeric protein with the Hsc70 binding motif, a signal sequence for chaperone-mediated autophagy, fused to QBP1 (Hsc70BM-QBP1), and found that Hsc70BM-QBP1 accelerates the selective degradation of expanded polyQ proteins in cell culture. Gene therapy using a viral vector expressing Hsc70BM-QBP1 effectively ameliorates the motor dysfunction and premature death in polyQ disease model mice. We propose that our therapeutic strategy to selectively degrade the pathogenic proteins can also be applied to other neurodegenerative diseases.
Our understanding of motor learning, neuro-plasticity and functional recovery after the occurrence of brain lesion has grown significantly. New findings in basic neuroscience provided stimuli for research in motor rehabilitation. Electrical stimulation can be applied in a variety of ways to the neurological impairment. Especially, electromyography (EMG) initiated electrical muscle stimulation improves motor dysfunction of the hemiparetic arm and hand. Triggered electrical stimulation is reported to be more effective than non-triggered electrical stimulation in facilitating upper extremity motor recovery. Power-assisted FES induces greater muscle contraction by electrical stimulation in proportion to the voluntary integrated EMG signal picked up. Daily power-assisted FES home program therapy with the novel equipment has been able to improve wrist, finger extension and shoulder flexion effectively. Combined modulation of voluntary movement, proprioceptional sensory feedback and electrical stimulation might play an important role to facilitate impaired sensory-motor integration in power-assisted FES therapy. It is recognized that increased cerebral blood flow in the sensory-motor cortex area on the injured side during power-assisted FES session compared to simple active movement or simple electrical stimulation in a multi-channels Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) study to non-invasively and dynamically measure hemoglobin levels in the brain during functional activity.
Blood-nerve barrier (BNB) is a &quot;Janus-faced&quot; structure for the peripheral nerve parenchyma. Healthy BNB may contribute to stabilize the internal milleu of peripheral nervous system (PNS) and to stop the entrance of toxic substances and harmful leukocytes into nerve parenchyma. On the other hand, healthy BNB may sometimes be a drawback because the peripheral nerve parenchyma cannot receive enough amount of nutrients and growth factors and cannot excrete toxic substances into systemic circulation because of its presence. Here we present a future therapeutic strategy to control BNB function, based on the basic knowledge acquired from recently developed human immortalized cell lines of BNB origin. If we can artificially regulate the BNB permeability and the expression of adhesion molecules on the surface of BNB-forming endothelial cells, and stop the entrance of toxic substances as well as pathogenic leukocytes into PNS parenchyma, the treatment of inflammatory neuropathies may make great progresses. For hereditary, metabolic and ischemic neuropathies, the promotion of the entrance of growth factors into PNS parenchyma and of the excretion of toxic substances should powerfully encourage the regeneration of axons.

The discovery of the causative gene for hereditary cerebral small vessel disease (CARASIL: Cerebral Autosomal Recessive Arteriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy) opens a new avenue for exploring the pathogenesis of cerebral small vessel disease. The causative gene for CARASIL is HTRA1 (high-temperature requirement A1). HTRA1 is a serine protease and inhibits TGF- signaling in their protease activity-dependent manner. The CARASIL-associated mutant HTRA1s lost their protease activity and increase the TGF- family signaling. However the precious molecular mechanism for inhibition of TGF- signaling by HTRA1 has not been elucidated. We have found that HTRA1 aberrantly cleaved pro-TGF- in an endoplasmic reticulum and the cleaved products were degraded by the endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation pathway. The result reconfirms the importance of HTRA1 for TGF- signaling. The study for Marfan syndrome, which is caused by the increasing TGF- signaling in aortic artery, indicates that the angiotensin I receptor antagonist, a drug already in clinical use for hypertension, inhibits TGF- signaling and ameliorates the disease progression in model mouse as well as patients with Marfan syndrome. In human brain, angiotensin I receptor antagonist also inhibits TGF- signaling. Therefore angiotensin I receptor antagonist warrants investigation as a therapeutic strategy for patients with CARASIL.
In patients with atypical dementia, cognitive dysfunctions other than amnesia predominate. It remains to be established how to examine these cognitive dysfunctions in the systematic way. &quot;Action&quot; deficit in dementia can occur at any stage from perception of objects to motor control. We examined the mechanism of &quot;action&quot; deficit in a patient with posterior cortical atrophy and that with progressive supranuclear palsy. The former demonstrated impaired control of visual attention, which seems to be related to dysfunction of the dorsal visual pathway. The latter showed poor control of ballistic action with a tool. Dysfunction of the supplementary motor area might be related to poor control of context-dependent ballistic action in this patient. Combined use of neuropsychological and neuroradiological data could clarify the underlying functional impairment and their neuronal bases, which will help understand pathological progression of atypical dementia.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is caused by the lack of dystrophin at the sarcolemma. Exon skipping by antisense oligonucleotides is a novel method to restore the reading frame of the mutated DMD gene, and rescue dystrophin expression. We recently reported that systemic delivery of Morpholino antisense oligonucleotides targeting exon 6 and 8 of the canine DMD gene, efficiently recovered functional dystrophin at the sarcolamma of dystrophic dogs, and improved phenotypes of affected dogs without serious side effects (Ann Neurol. 65: 667-676, 2009). To optimize therapeutic antisense Morpholinos for more frequent mutations of the DMD gene, we designed antisense Morpholinos targeting exon 51 of the mouse DMD gene, and injected them separately or in combination into the muscles of mdx52 mice, in which exon 52 has been deleted by a gene targeting technique. We also tried systemic delivery of antisense Morpholino to skip exon 51 in mdx 52 mice and found the amelioration of the phenotypes (Mol Ther, 2010). Clinical trials of exon 51 skipping for DMD patients is now going in our country and application of antisense strategy to other hereditary neuromuscular diseases is largely expected.
Microglia play a crucial role in the development of inflammatory demyelinating lesions in multiple sclerosis (MS). Microglia act on inflammatory lymphocytes as antigen presenting cells, and produce inflammatory cytokines, glutamate, and reactive oxygen species (ROS). Neurodegeneration, which is observed in the demyelinating lesions, affects the prognosis in MS. Neuritic beading, focal bead-like swellings of the dendrites and axons, is a neuropathological sign in the early phase of neurodegeneration in MS. Microglia-derived glutamate and ROS initiate beading formation. Microglia can exert neuroprotective effect by deprivation of dead cells and induction of neurotrophic factors, anti-inflammatory cytokines, and anti-oxidant enzyme in MS. Neurons are thought to be not merely passive targets of microglia but rather control microglial activity through various signals including cytokines and chemokines. Soluble fractalkine (sFKN), which is secreted from damaged neurons by glutamate, promotes microglial phagocytosis of neuronal debris, and induces the antioxidant enzyme heme oxygenase-1 in microglia. IL-34 secreted from neurons also induces microglial neuroprotection. Astrocytes exert neuroprotective effect. However, toll-like receptor ligands induce neurotoxic molecules in astrocytes. IL-33 produced by astrocytes induces microglial activation. Thus, disruption of beneficial interaction between glia and neurons is crucial for the pathogenesis of MS.
The neuromuscular junction lacks the protection of the blood-nerve barrier and is vulnerable to antibody-mediated disorders. Myasthenia gravis (MG) is caused by the failure of neuromuscular transmission mediated by autoantibodies against acetylcholine receptors (AChR) and muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase (MuSK)/LDL-receptor related protein 4 which are AChR-associated transmembrane post-synaptic proteins involved in AChR aggregation. The seropositivity rates for AChR positive and MuSK positive MG in Japan are 80-85% and 5-10%/less than 1%,respectively. The incidence of late-onset MG, defined as onset after age 50 years, has been increasing worldwide. A nationwide epidemiological survey in Japan also revealed that the rates of late-onset MG had increased from 20% in 1987 to 42% in 2006. In 2010, a guideline for standard treatments of late-onset MG was published by the Japanese Society of Neurological Therapeutics. Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) is an autoimmune disease of the neuromuscular junction and approximately 60% of LEMS patients have a tumor, mostly small cell lung cancer (SCLC), as a paraneoplastic neurological syndrome. The clinical pictures of Japanese LEMS patients are as follows; male dominant sex ratio (3 : 1), mean age 62 years (17-80 years), 61% of LEMS have SCLC, and the remaining are without cancer. In less than 10% of cases there are signs of cerebellar dysfunctions (paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration with LEMS; PCD-LEMS) as well, often associated with SCLC. Most patients benefit from 3, 4-diaminopyridine plus pyridostigmine. In paraneoplastic LEMS, treatment of the tumor often results in neurological improvement. In non-paraneoplastic LEMS, prednisone alone or combined with immunosuppressants are treatment options. In both MG and LEMS, where weakness is severe, plasma exchange or intravenous immunoglobulin treatment may provide short-term benefit.

Schizophrenia remains a major challenge for psychiatry. One hundred years after the publication of Eugen Bleuler's monograph, we are still debating the nosology and mechanisms of schizophrenia. We have stalled in the development of more effective treatments, after success with the introduction of antipsychotic medication. Cure and prevention remain in the distance. This article reviews the importance of Bleuler's monograph for the neuroscientific exploration of schizophrenia. While Bleuler assumed that schizophrenia has a neural basis, he remained agnostic on possible mechanisms and skeptical about the value of pathological diagnosis. He preferred psychological understanding over neural explanation. He gave hope by making schizophrenia dimensional and less predictive of course and outcome. To make progress now, we need to redefine schizophrenia at the level of the brain.
Auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH) are a characteristic symptom in schizophrenia, and also occur in the general, non-clinical population. In schizophrenia patients, several specific cognitive deficits, such as in speech processing, working memory, source memory, attention, inhibition, episodic memory and self-monitoring have been associated with auditory verbal hallucinations. Such associations are interesting, as they may identify specific cognitive traits that constitute a predisposition for AVH. However, it is difficult to disentangle a specific relation with AVH in patients with schizophrenia, as so many other factors can affect the performance on cognitive tests. Examining the cognitive profile of healthy individuals experiencing AVH may reveal a more direct association between AVH and aberrant cognitive functioning in a specific domain. For the current study, performance in executive functioning, memory (both short- and long-term), processing speed, spatial ability, lexical access, abstract reasoning, language and intelligence performance was compared between 101 healthy individuals with AVH and 101 healthy controls, matched for gender, age, handedness and education. Although performance of both groups was within the normal range, not clinically impaired, significant differences between the groups were found in the verbal domain as well as in executive functioning. Performance on all other cognitive domains was similar in both groups. The predisposition to experience AVH is associated with lower performance in executive functioning and aberrant language performance. This association might be related to difficulties in the inhibition of irrelevant verbal information.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the psychometric properties of the parallel client and clinician versions of the Illness Management and Recovery Scale (IMRS) developed to monitor the clients' progress in the Illness Management and Recovery (IMR) program in schizophrenia. A total of 107 study participants completed assessments of the IMRS, interview-based ratings of psychiatric symptoms, self-ratings of psychiatric symptoms, perception of recovery, and quality of life. Case managers completed the clinician version of the IMRS. Both versions of the scale demonstrated satisfactory internal reliability and strong test-retest reliability. The results also indicated convergent validity with interview-based ratings of psychiatric symptoms, self-rated symptoms, perception of recovery, and quality of life for both versions of the IMRS. These findings support the utility of the IMRS as a measure of illness self-management and recovery in clients with schizophrenia.
Progress in the development of new pharmacological and psychosocial treatments for the negative symptoms of schizophrenia is impeded by limitations of available assessment instruments. The multi-site Collaboration to Advance Negative Symptom Assessment in Schizophrenia (CANSAS) was established to develop and validate a new clinical rating scale using a transparent, iterative, and data-driven process. The Clinical Assessment Interview for Negative Symptoms (CAINS) was designed to address limitations of existing measures and assess consensus-based sub-domains, including asociality, avolition, anhedonia, affective blunting, and alogia. The structure and psychometric properties of the CAINS were evaluated in a sample of 281 schizophrenia and schizoaffective outpatients at four sites. Converging structural analyses indicated that the scale was comprised of two moderately correlated factors - one reflecting experiential impairments (diminished motivation and enjoyment of social, vocational, and recreational activities) and one reflecting expressive impairments (diminished non-verbal and verbal communication). Item-level analyses revealed generally good distributional properties, inter-rater agreement, discriminating anchor points, and preliminary convergent and discriminant validity. Results indicate that the CAINS is a promising new measure for quantifying negative symptoms in clinical neuroscience and treatment studies. Results guided item modification or deletion, and the reliability and validity of the revised, shorter version of the CAINS is in the final phase of development within the CANSAS project.
An accumulating body of literature supports the notion that psychotic-like experiences (PLEs) may occur as a continuous phenotype. However, researchers are still working to determine if these events accompany an underlying continuum of neurobiological vulnerability as well. Within this context, it is notable that spontaneous dyskinetic movements are linked to specific pathogenic factors underlying schizophrenia, but to date there has been little research directed towards determining whether these events are associated with PLEs. In this study, 119 individuals were assessed for PLEs and administered with a sensitive instrumental test of upper extremity dyskinesia. Present findings suggest a relationship between subtle dyskinesia and PLEs in the general population, and provide a new perspective of the psychosis continuum by indicating that basal ganglia pathology may also underlie PLEs at the non-clinical end of this spectrum.

Trigeminal schwannomas (TS), though the second most common intracranial schwannomas, represent only 0.8 to 8% of all Schwannomas. Advancement in imaging and microsurgical techniques has led to a remarkable improvement in the outcome of these benign tumors. Multicompartmental TS, though extensive, have an excellent outcome after surgery. In this article, we present our experience in the management of multicompartmental TS (types middle/posterior [MP], middle/extracranial [ME], and middle/posterior and extracranial [MPE]) and outcome in this rather uncommon group of tumors. This retrospective study included all the cases of multicompartmental TS operated at our institute from 1999 to 2009. The medical data were analyzed retrospectively. The demographic profile, clinical features, radiological findings, management strategies, postoperative complications, length of hospitalization, and outcome were noted. Follow-up data were collected from outpatient department records. The range and average duration of follow-up were noted. There were a total of 43 patients with TS operated over this period. Among them, 4 were type B, 5 type C, 11 type D, 18 type E, and 5 type F. The study included 26 patients (4 type B, 18 type E, and 4 type B). A variety of approaches were used to approach the tumor. Of 26, 23 patients had a gross total or near-total excision while 2 patients were lost to follow-up. Among the three patients who had a near-total excision and follow-up magnetic resonance imaging showed a small residual tumor, two are on close follow-up with no increase in the size of the tumor over a follow-up period of 3 years, the other patient is a 5-year-old boy who is too young for radiosurgery and is on follow-up. There was no mortality while four patients have had fresh permanent postoperative deficits. Multicompartmental TS are a rare, complex but eminently treatable group of tumors. A variety of surgical approaches can be used to excise the tumor. The choice of approach needs to be individualized with total excision providing excellent results.
The authors report two cases of coexisting Rathke cleft cyst (RCC) and pituitary macroadenoma. Both patients presented at the university hospital with pituitary apoplexy symptoms of sudden-onset headache while undergoing treatment with Coumadin (warfarin). Magnetic resonance imaging was consistent with a pituitary adenoma in one case and RCC in the other. Intraoperative findings and pathological work-up identified RCC along with adenomatous tissue displaying hemorrhagic pituitary adenoma in one and hemorrhagic RCC in the other. Clinical symptoms of pituitary apoplexy were present in both cases, making pituitary and RCC apoplexy clinically indistinguishable. RCC and concomitant pituitary adenoma are a rare intraoperative finding that must be considered as a differential diagnosis in patients with symptoms of pituitary adenoma apoplexy.

Neuronal migration is essential for the development of the cerebral cortex. Mutations leading to defective migration are associated with numerous brain pathologies. An important challenge in the field is to understand the intrinsic and extrinsic mechanisms that regulate neuronal migration during normal development and in disease. Many small GTPases are expressed in the central nervous system during embryonic development. Recent findings have shown that Rap1 and its downstream partners Ral, Rac and Cdc42 are involved in the maintenance of N-Cadherin at the plasma membrane which is necessary for the correct polarization of migrating neurons. The activation of Rap1 is triggered by Reelin, an extracellular protein known for its role in the organization of the cortex into layers of neurons. In the absence of Reelin, neurons exhibit a broader and irregular pattern of positioning. The prevailing model suggests that Reelin signals to neurons during the last step of their migration, a notion that is inconsistent with new data describing an effect of Reelin on early steps of migration. In regard to these recent findings I suggest a revised model, which I call the &quot;polarity model,&quot; that further refines our understanding of the developmental function played by Reelin and its downstream small GTPases.
The Affective Neuroscience Personality Scales have been designed to provide a personality assessment tool based on six distinct affective systems. The six neural systems involved were labeled PLAY, SEEK, CARE, FEAR, ANGER and SADNESS. Spirituality has been integrated into the questionnaire as a seventh dimension because, in opinion of Panksepp and his colleagues is one of the most interesting human emotion. The aim of the present paper was introduce the validation of the Spanish version of Affective Neuroscience Personality Scales and their first psychometric results in a sample of 411 college students. Participants completed the Spanish version of ANPS, just as a personality scale of five factors (NEO-FFI-R), and the Scales of Positive and Negative Affect (PANAS). The factor structure obtained and psychometric properties of the scales indicate that the Spanish version of the scales provides an effective tool to measure the seven dimensions of personality proposal in the original questionnaire.
Induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) technology has provided researchers with a unique tool to derive disease-specific stem cells for the study and possible treatment of degenerative disorders with autologous cells. The low efficiency and heterogeneous nature of reprogramming is a major impediment to the generation of personalized iPSC lines. Here, we report the generation of a lentiviral system based on a microRNA-regulated transgene that enables for the efficient selection of mouse and human pluripotent cells. This system relies on the differential expression pattern of the mature form of microRNA let7a in pluripotent versus committed or differentiated cells. We generated microRNA responsive green fluorescent protein and Neo reporters for specific labeling and active selection of the pluripotent cells in any culture condition. We used this system to establish Rett syndrome and Parkinson's disease human iPSCs. The presented selection procedure represents a straightforward and powerful tool for facilitating the derivation of patient-specific iPSCs.
Neural stem cell-based approaches to repair damaged white matter in the central nervous system have shown great promise; however, the optimal cell population to employ in these therapies remains undetermined. A default mechanism of neural induction may function during development, and in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) neural differentiation is elicited in the absence of any extrinsic signaling in minimal, serum-free culture conditions. The default mechanism can be used to derive clonal neurosphere-forming populations of neural stem cells that have been termed leukemia inhibitory factor-dependent primitive neural stem cells (pNSCs), which subsequently give rise to fibroblast growth factor 2-dependent definitive NSCs (dNSCs). Here we characterized the neural differentiation pattern of these two cell types in vitro and in vivo when transplanted into the dysmyelinated spinal cords of shiverer mice. We compared the differentiation pattern to that observed for neural stem/progenitor cells derived from the adult forebrain subependymal zone [adult neural precursor cells (aNPCs)]. dNSCs produced a differentiation pattern similar to that of aNPCs in vitro and in the shiverer model in vivo, where both cell types produced terminally differentiated oligodendrocytes that associated with host axons and expressed myelin basic protein. This is the first demonstration of the in vivo differentiation of NSCs, derived from ESCs through the default mechanism, into the oligodendrocyte lineage. We conclude that dNSCs derived through the default pathway of neural induction are a similar cell population to aNPCs and that the default mechanism is a promising approach to generate NSCs from pluripotent cell populations for use in cell therapy or other research applications.
Transplantation of neural stem cells (NSCs) is a promising therapeutic approach for Huntington's disease (HD). HD is characterized by a progressive loss of medium-sized spiny neurons (MSNs) in the striatum. DARPP-32 (dopamine and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, 32kDa) is expressed in 98% of these MSNs. To establish an effective cell therapy for HD, the differentiation of human NSCs into MSNs is essential. Enhancing differentiation of NSCs is therefore an important aspect to optimize transplant efficacy. A comparison of 5 differentiation protocols indicated that the Hedgehog agonist purmorphamine (1M) most significantly increased the neuronal differentiation of a human striatal NSC line (STROC05). This 3-fold increase in neurons was associated with a dramatic reduction in proliferation as well as a decrease in astrocytic differentiation. A synergistic effect between purmorphamine and cell density even further increased neuronal differentiation from 20% to 30% within 7 days. Upon long-term differentiation (21 days), this combined differentiation protocol tripled the number of DARPP-32 cells (7%) and almost doubled the proportion of calbindin cells. However, there was no effect on calretinin cells. Differential expression of positional specification markers (DLX2, MASH1, MEIS2, GSH2, and NKX2.1) further confirmed the striatal identity of these differentiated cells. Purmorphamine resulted in a significant upregulation of the Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway (GLI1 expression). Cyclopamine, an Hh inhibitor, blocked this effect, indicating that purmorphamine specifically acts through this pathway to increase neuronal differentiation. These results demonstrate that small synthetic molecules can play a pivotal role in directing the differentiation of NSCs to optimize their therapeutic potential in HD.
Cell replacement therapy holds great promise for treating a wide range of human disorders. However, ensuring the predictable differentiation of transplanted stem cells, eliminating their risk of tumor formation, and generating fully functional cells after transplantation remain major challenges in regenerative medicine. Here, we explore the potential of human neural stem/progenitor cells isolated from the embryonic forebrain (hfNSPCs) or the spinal cord (hscNSPCs) to differentiate to projection neurons when transplanted into the dorsal root ganglion cavity of adult recipient rats. To stimulate axonal growth, we transfected hfNSPC- and hscNSPC-derived neurospheres, prior to their transplantation, with a Tet-Off Runx1-overexpressing plasmid to maintain Runx1 expression in vivo after transplantation. Although pronounced cell differentiation was found in the Runx1-expressing transplants from both cell sources, we observed extensive, long-distance growth of axons exclusively from hscNSPC-derived transplants. These axons ultimately reached the dorsal root transitional zone, the boundary separating peripheral and central nervous systems. Our data show that hscNSPCs have the potential to differentiate to projection neurons with long-distance axonal outgrowth and that Runx1 overexpression is a useful approach to induce such outgrowth in specific sources of NSPCs.




On the basis of ultrastructural parameters, the concept was formulated that asymmetric Type I and symmetric Type II synapses are excitatory and inhibitory, respectively. This &quot;functional Gray synapses concept&quot; received strong support from the demonstration of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate in Type I synapses and of the inhibitory neurotransmitter -aminobutyric acid in Type II synapses, and is still frequently used in modern literature. However, morphological and functional evidence has accumulated that the concept is less tenable. Typical features of synapses like shape and size of presynaptic vesicles and synaptic cleft and presence of a postsynaptic density (PsD) do not always fit the postulated (excitatory/inhibitory) function of Gray's synapses. Furthermore, synapse function depends on postsynaptic receptors and associated signal transduction mechanisms rather than on presynaptic morphology and neurotransmitter type. Moreover, the notion that many synapses are difficult to classify as either asymmetric or symmetric has cast doubt on the assumption that the presence of a PsD is a sign of excitatory synaptic transmission. In view of the morphological similarities of the PsD in asymmetric synapses with membrane junctional structures such as the zonula adherens and the desmosome, asymmetric synapses may play a role as links between the postsynaptic and presynaptic membrane, thus ensuring long-term maintenance of interneuronal communication. Symmetric synapses, on the other hand, might be sites of transient communication as takes place during development, learning, memory formation, and pathogenesis of brain disorders. Confirmation of this idea might help to return the functional Gray synapse concept its central place in neuroscience.
Changes in the dynamic interactions of macromolecules in cell membranes appear to underlie the robust neuroprotective effect of hypothermia against selective neuronal degeneration in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus after transient cerebral ischemia, but the detailed mechanisms are still elusive. Using the two-vessel occlusion model of transient normothermic cerebral ischemia of 15min duration, we investigated the tyrosine phosphorylation of synaptic proteins in general and that of the NMDA receptor subunits in particular, at different times of recirculation. Specifically, the effect of intra-ischemic hypothermia (33C), which provides neuroprotection to the CA1 region of the hippocampus, was studied. Phosphorylation of tyrosine residues on the NMDA receptor (NR) 2, but not of the NR1 or the AMPA receptor subunit 1 (GluR1) proteins, was markedly enhanced following cerebral ischemia. Protein tyrosine phosphorylation was persistently increased in the postsynaptic densities of the vulnerable CA1 region, but was transient in the CA3/dentate gyrus (DG) neurons where cell death was not evident. The phospho-tyrosine phosphatase activity decreased during reperfusion in the CA1 region but not in CA3/DG. Importantly, decreasing body temperature to 33C during ischemia modified the dynamics of the protein tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2 in the CA1 region, which was transient and similar in time course to that seen in the CA3/DG region after normothermic ischemia. We conclude that the protracted tyrosine phosphorylation of the NR2 subunit in the hippocampus CA1 region following normothermic ischemia is attenuated by hypothermia and therefore constitutes an important target for hypothermic neuroprotection.
The human P2X7 receptor is a two-transmembrane ionotropic receptor which has a ubiquitous distribution and is most highly expressed on immune cells. In macrophages and similar myeloid cells primed by lipopolysaccharide (LPS), activation of P2X7 by extracellular ATP opens a cation channel/pore allowing massive K+ efflux associated with processing and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-1 and IL-18. A variety of other downstream effects follows P2X7 activation over several minutes including shedding of certain surface molecules, membrane blebbing, microvesicle/exosome release and apoptosis of the cell. High concentrations of ATP (&gt;100 M) are required to activate P2X7 but it remains unclear where these levels exist, other than in inflammatory foci or confined spaces such as in bone. A variety of potent selective antagonists of P2X7 activation have recently become available, allowing clinical trials to be undertaken in inflammatory and immune-mediated disorders. Proteomic studies have shown that P2X7 exists as a large multiprotein complex which includes non-muscle myosin heavy chain and other elements of the cytoskeleton. In the absence of its ATP ligand and serum, P2X7 has an alternate function in the recognition and phagocytosis of non-opsonized foreign particles, including bacteria and apoptotic cells. The P2RX7 gene has many polymorphic variants and isoforms which increase or decrease function of the receptor. Genetic association studies have linked loss-of-function polymorphisms with reactivation of latent tuberculosis as well as symptomatic infection with certain other obligate intracellular pathogens. The many roles involving P2X7 suggest that this receptor is essential to fundamental aspects of the innate immune response.
Preliminary studies have shown associations between chronic pesticide exposure in occupational settings and neurological disorders. However, data on the effects of long-term non-occupational exposures are too sparse to allow any conclusions. This study examines the influence of environmental pesticide exposure on a number of neuropsychiatric conditions and discusses their underlying pathologic mechanisms. An ecological study was conducted using averaged prevalence rates of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, cerebral degeneration, polyneuropathies, affective psychosis and suicide attempts in selected Andalusian health districts categorized into areas of high and low environmental pesticide exposure based on the number of hectares devoted to intensive agriculture and pesticide sales per capita. A total of 17,429 cases were collected from computerized hospital records (minimum dataset) between 1998 and 2005. Prevalence rates and the risk of having Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis and suicide were significantly higher in districts with greater pesticide use as compared to those with lower pesticide use. The multivariate analyses showed that the population living in areas with high pesticide use had an increased risk for Alzheimer's disease and suicide attempts and that males living in these areas had increased risks for polyneuropathies, affective disorders and suicide attempts. In conclusion, this study supports and extends previous findings and provides an indication that environmental exposure to pesticides may affect the human health by increasing the incidence of certain neurological disorders at the level of the general population.
Developmental exposure to food contaminants, such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), has been considered as a possible cause of neurodevelopmental disorders. We have investigated the effects of noncytotoxic concentrations of PCBs 153 and 180 on spontaneous differentiation of rat embryonic neural stem cells (NSCs). Upon removal of basic fibroblast growth factor to induce spontaneous differentiation, cells were exposed to 100 nM of the selected PCBs for 48 h and analyzed after 5 days. Both PCBs 153 and 180 induced a significant increase in the number of neurite-bearing Tuj1-positive cells with a concomitant decrease in proliferating cells, as detected by FUCCI transfection and EdU staining. Measurements of spontaneous Ca oscillations showed a decreased number of cells with Ca activity after PCB exposure, further confirming the increase in neuronal cells. Conversely, exposure to methylmercury (MeHg), which we evaluated in parallel, led to an increased number of cells with Ca activity, in agreement with the previously observed inhibition of neuronal differentiation. Analysis with quantitative PCR of the Notch pathway revealed that PCBs have a repressive action on Notch signaling, whereas MeHg activates it. Altogether, the data indicate that nanomolar concentrations of the selected non-dioxin-like PCBs and MeHg interfere in opposite directions with neuronal spontaneous differentiation of NSCs through Notch signaling. Combined exposures to PCBs and MeHg resulted in an induction of apoptosis and an antagonistic interaction on spontaneous neuronal differentiation. NSCs are further proven to be a valuable in vitro model to identify potential developmental neurotoxicants.
Developmental exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) causes hearing loss that may be due to reduced thyroxine during cochlear development. Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are structurally similar to PCBs and reduce thyroxine. This study utilized an environmental PCB mixture and a commercial PBDE mixture, DE-71, that represents the PBDEs found in humans to assess the potential for additive effects of PCBs and PBDEs on cochlear function. Female Long-Evans rats were dosed with corn oil vehicle, PCBs (3 or 6 mg/kg), molar equivalent doses of PBDEs (5.7 or 11.4 mg/kg), 3 mg/kg PCBs + 5.7 mg/kg PBDEs, or 6 mg/kg PCBs + 11.4 mg/kg PBDEs throughout gestation and lactation. At weaning, pup blood was taken to assess thyroxine concentrations. One male and one female from each litter were maintained until adulthood for distortion product otoacoustic emission (DPOAE) measurements of cochlear function. DPOAE amplitudes were decreased and thresholds were elevated in the 6 mg/kg PCB group. Exposure to PBDEs did not cause DPOAE deficits. There was an interactive effect from combined exposure such that the individual low doses of PCBs and PBDEs did not result in DPOAE deficits, but the two combined produced a deficit similar to that in the high-dose PCB group. Serum thyroxine concentrations of all groups were reduced compared with controls, but PBDEs produced a less dramatic reduction than PCBs, which could explain the lack of DPOAE effects. Importantly, there was evidence that the co-exposure to subthreshold doses of PCBs and PBDEs can have an additive effect on cochlear function.
Diethylene glycol (DEG), a solvent and chemical intermediate, can produce an acute toxic syndrome, the hallmark of which is acute renal failure due to cortical tubular degeneration and proximal tubular necrosis. DEG is metabolized to two primary metabolites, 2-hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (2-HEAA) and diglycolic acid (DGA), which are believed to be the proximate toxicants. The precise mechanism of toxicity has yet to be elucidated, so these studies were designed to determine which metabolite was responsible for the proximal tubule cell death. Human proximal tubule (HPT) cells in culture, obtained from normal cortical tissue and passaged 3-6 times, were incubated with increasing concentrations of DEG, 2-HEAA, or DGA separately and in combination for 48 h at pH 6 or 7.4, and various parameters of necrotic and apoptotic cell death were measured. DEG and 2-HEAA did not produce any cell death. DGA produced dose-dependent necrosis at concentrations above 25 mmol/l. DGA did not affect caspase-3 activity and increased annexin V staining only in propidium iodide-stained cells. Hence, DGA induced necrosis, not apoptosis, as corroborated by severe depletion of cellular adenosine triphosphate levels. DGA is structurally similar to citric acid cycle intermediates that are taken up by specific transporters in kidney cells. HPT cells, incubated with N-(p-amylcinnamoyl)anthranilic acid, a sodium dicarboxylate-1 transporter inhibitor showed significantly decreased cell death compared with DGA alone. These studies demonstrate that DGA is the toxic metabolite responsible for DEG-induced proximal tubular necrosis and suggest a possible transporter-mediated uptake of DGA leading to toxic accumulation and cellular dysfunction.
Semantic memory includes all acquired knowledge about the world and is the basis for nearly all human activity, yet its neurobiological foundation is only now becoming clear. Recent neuroimaging studies demonstrate two striking results: the participation of modality-specific sensory, motor, and emotion systems in language comprehension, and the existence of large brain regions that participate in comprehension tasks but are not modality-specific. These latter regions, which include the inferior parietal lobe and much of the temporal lobe, lie at convergences of multiple perceptual processing streams. These convergences enable increasingly abstract, supramodal representations of perceptual experience that support a variety of conceptual functions including object recognition, social cognition, language, and the remarkable human capacity to remember the past and imagine the future.
Simulation theories of social cognition abound in the literature, but it is often unclear what simulation means and how it works. The discovery of mirror neurons, responding both to action execution and observation, suggested an embodied approach to mental simulation. Over the past few years this approach has been hotly debated and alternative accounts have been proposed. We discuss these accounts and argue that they fail to capture the uniqueness of embodied simulation (ES). ES theory provides a unitary account of basic social cognition, demonstrating that people reuse their own mental states or processes represented with a bodily format in functionally attributing them to others.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of progressive cognitive decline and dementia in adults. While the amyloid cascade hypothesis of AD posits an initiating role for the -amyloid (A) protein, there is limited understanding of why A is deposited. A growing body of evidence based on in vitro, animal studies and human imaging work suggests that synaptic activity increases A, which is deposited preferentially in multimodal brain regions that show continuous levels of heightened activation and plasticity across the lifespan. Imaging studies of people with genetic predispositions to AD are consistent with these findings, suggesting a mechanism whereby neural efficiency or cognitive reserve may diminish A deposition. The aggregated findings unify observations from cellular and molecular studies with human cognitive neuroscience to reveal potential mechanisms of AD development.
The farnesoid X receptor (FXR) is a nuclear receptor whose activation leads to alterations in pathways involved in energy metabolism. For example, it serves as a bile acid receptor in tissues such as the liver, and as an energy metabolism regulator in liver, muscle and adipose tissue. However, the effects of FXR activation are not exclusive to the tissue where it is present, because receptor crosstalk affects tissues throughout the body. It has been demonstrated that FXR regulates the metabolism of not just bile acids, but also of fats and hydrocarbon metabolites. FXR is currently under study as a therapeutic target for the treatment of diseases of excess, such as diabetes. Here we review the effects of FXR activation in the response of an organism to excess energy.
The ability to perceive one's position and directional heading relative to landmarks is necessary for successful navigation within an environment. Recent studies have shown that the visual system dominantly controls the neural representations of directional heading and location when familiar visual cues are available, and several neural circuits, or streams, have been proposed to be crucial for visual information processing. Here, we summarize the evidence that the dorsal presubiculum (also known as the postsubiculum) is critically important for the direct transfer of visual landmark information to spatial signals within the limbic system.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a neurodegenerative disease involving motor abnormalities that include akinesia, rigidity and postural instability. While improved diagnostic criteria have aided the accurate diagnosis of MSA, our understanding of the neuropathological aspects underlying MSA was bolstered by the identification of -synuclein (-syn) as the primary constituent of the abnormal protein aggregates observed in the brains of MSA patients. The generation of transgenic animal models of MSA coupled with an increasing understanding of the biochemical structure and function of -syn has highlighted a number of key pathological pathways thought to underlie the neurodegeneration observed in MSA. This review summarizes key findings in the field, discusses current areas of debate, and describes current experimental approaches towards disease-modifying therapies.
The central nervous system (CNS) is undoubtedly the most complex human organ system in terms of its diverse functions, cellular composition, and connections. Attempts to capture this diversity experimentally were the foundation on which the field of neurobiology was built. Until now though, techniques were either painstakingly slow or insufficient in capturing this heterogeneity. In addition, the combination of multiple layers of information needed for a complete picture of neuronal diversity from the epigenome to the proteome requires an even more complex compilation of data. In this era of high-throughput genomics though, the ability to isolate and profile neurons and brain tissue has increased tremendously and now requires less effort. Both microarrays and next-generation sequencing have identified neuronal transcriptomes and signaling networks involved in normal brain development, as well as in disease. However, the expertise needed to organize and prioritize the resultant data remains substantial. A combination of supervised organization and unsupervised analyses are needed to fully appreciate the underlying structure in these datasets. When utilized effectively, these analyses have yielded striking insights into a number of fundamental questions in neuroscience on topics ranging from the evolution of the human brain to neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. Future studies will incorporate these analyses with behavioral and physiological data from patients to more efficiently move toward personalized therapeutics.
Experiences of past and current gender-based violence are common among HIV-positive women in the United States, who are predominantly from ethnic minority groups. However, culturally congruent, feasible interventions for HIV-positive women who have experienced past and/or current violence are not widely available. The Office on Women's Health Gender Forum has made several recommendations for responding to the National HIV/AIDS Strategy Implementation Plan, including recommendations to incorporate gender-based violence prevention into a comprehensive, gender-responsive national strategy. This paper draws on an example of a community-based project for HIV-positive women, the Healing Our Women Project, to illustrate how violence prevention can be achieved within peer-led and community-based programming. Strong community partnerships, responsiveness to community needs and local cultural norms, a trained workforce, and culturally competent care are programmatic cornerstones of gender-responsive services. HIV-positive women with histories of gender-based violence and risk factors for current and future violence deserve the highest quality gender-responsive services to ensure that they can address their health needs within contexts of safety and respect.

After two decades of enormous improvements in anti-inflammatory therapy with biologics long-standing disease sequelae in chronic inflammatory diseases (CID) can be recognized, such as fatigue, anorexia/malnutrition, cachectic obesity, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, changes of steroid hormone axes (e.g. loss of androgens), increased sympathetic nervous tone/decreased parasympathetic nervous tone, inflammation-related anemia and osteopenia. This article demonstrates for the first time in the German language a new theory to explain the pathophysiology of these disease sequelae. It includes concepts from evolutionary medicine and neuroendocrine regulation of energy allocation. The core statement is: the networks of energy regulation and energy allocation have been evolutionarily positively selected for transient inflammatory episodes (not for CIDs due to the negative selection pressure) but long-standing use of these adaptive programs for CID support systemic disease sequelae. These considerations might help to deviate focus from pure anti-inflammatory treatment to adequate diagnosis and therapy of systemic disease sequelae.
LI Shizhen mentioned Fanguan Neishi in Qijing Bamaikao, but without interpretation. There are various interpretations of Fanguan Neishi, such as perception induced by Qigong and methodology of TCM, which are not evidence-based. According to the meaning of perception in traditional culture, neuroscience and psychological research, the physiological function of the brain is introversive thinking on which perception is based. The essence of Fanguan Neishi and introversive thinking are the same and Fanguan Neishi is not an extrasensory perception.
Previous studies have shown that adult female rats consume more ethanol than adult males. Castration of male rats has been found to increase their ethanol intake and preference to levels significantly elevated above their sham-gonadectomized counterparts and similar to levels observed in females. The purpose of the present experiment was to examine whether testosterone replacement in castrated adult male rats would be sufficient to restore the relatively low levels of ethanol drinking characteristic of intact adult male rats. Males were either gonadectomized and implanted with a testosterone propionate pellet (RPL), gonadectomized and implanted with a placebo pellet (GX), sham-gonadectomized and implanted with a placebo pellet (SH), or were left non-manipulated (NM). Voluntary ethanol intake was measured using a 2h limited-access drinking paradigm, with access to two bottles: one containing water, and the other a sweetened ethanol solution. Hormone replacement was sufficient to return ethanol intake and preference of castrates to levels comparable to both SH and NM control males. Ethanol preference of RPL males was also significantly suppressed compared to GX males by the end of the measurement period, whereas these group comparisons did not reach statistical significance for g/kg ethanol intake. These data suggest that testosterone serves to suppress ethanol preference in male rats, and may contribute to the sex differences in ethanol preference and consumption commonly reported in adult rats.
Brain concussion is a serious public health concern and is associated with short-term cognitive impairments and behavioral disturbances that typically occur in the absence of significant brain damage. The current study addresses the need to better understand the effects of a mild lateral fluid percussion injury on rat behavior and neuropathology in an animal model of concussion. Male Long-Evans rats received either a single mild fluid percussion injury or a sham-injury, and either a short (24h) or long (4 weeks) post-injury recovery period. After recovery, rats underwent a detailed behavioral analysis consisting of tests for rodent anxiety, cognition, social behavior, sensorimotor function, and depression-like behavior. After testing all rats were sacrificed and brains were examined immunohistochemically with markers for microglia/macrophage activation, reactive astrocytosis, and axonal injury. Injured rats (mean injury force: 1.20 .03 atm) displayed significant short-term cognitive impairments in the water maze and significantly more anxiolytic-like behavior in the elevated-plus maze compared to sham controls. Neuropathological analysis of the brains of injured rats showed an acute increase in reactive astrogliosis and activated microglia in cortex and evidence of axonal injury in the corpus callosum. There were no significant long-term effects on any behavioral or neuropathological measure 4 weeks after injury. These short-term behavioral and neuropathological changes are consistent with findings in human patients suffering a brain concussion, and provide further evidence for the use of a single mild lateral fluid percussion injury to study concussion in the rat.
Previous research has demonstrated considerable preclinical efficacy of nicotinamide (NAM; vitamin B(3)) in animal models of TBI with systemic dosing at 50 and 500 mg/kg yielding improvements on sensory, motor, cognitive and histological measures. The current study aimed to utilize a more specific dosing paradigm in a clinically relevant delivery mechanism: continuously secreting subcutaneous pumps. A bilateral frontal controlled cortical impact (CCI) or sham surgery was performed and rats were treated with NAM (150 mg/kg day) or saline (1 ml/kg) pumps 30 min after CCI, continuing until seven days post-CCI. Rats were given a loading dose of NAM (50mg/kg) or saline (1 ml/kg) following pump implant. Rats received behavioral testing (bilateral tactile adhesive removal, locomotor placing task and Morris water maze) starting on day two post-CCI and were sacrificed at 31 days post-CCI and brains were stained to examine lesion size. NAM-treated rats had reductions in sensory, motor and cognitive behavioral deficits compared to vehicle-treated rats. Specifically, NAM-treated rats significantly improved on the bilateral tactile adhesive removal task, locomotor placing task and the reference memory paradigm of the Morris water maze. Lesion size was also significantly reduced in the NAM-treated group. The results from this study indicate that at the current dose, NAM produces beneficial effects on recovery from a bilateral frontal brain injury and that it may be a relevant compound to be explored in human studies.
This functional neuroimaging (fMRI) study examined the neural networks (spatial patterns of covarying neural activity) associated with the speed-accuracy tradeoff (SAT) in younger adults. The response signal method was used to systematically increase probe duration (125, 250, 500, 1000 and 2000 ms) in a nonverbal delayed-item recognition task. A covariance-based multivariate approach identified three networks that varied with probe duration--indicating that the SAT is driven by three distributed neural networks.
Neuregulin 1 (NRG1) is an important growth factor involved in the development and plasticity of the central nervous system. Since its identification as a susceptibility gene for schizophrenia, several transgenic mouse models have been employed to elucidate the role NRG1 may play in the pathogenesis of psychiatric disease. Unfortunately very few studies have included females, despite the fact that some work suggests that the consequences of disrupted NRG1 expression may be sex-specific. Here, we used Nrg1 hypomorphic (Nrg1(Tn)) Fischer rats to demonstrate sex-specific changes in neuroendocrine and behavioral phenotypes as a consequence of reduced Type II NRG1 expression. We have previously shown that male Nrg1(Tn) rats have increased basal corticosterone levels, and fail to habituate to an open field despite normal overall levels of locomotor activity. The current studies show that, in contrast, female Nrg1(Tn) rats exhibit enhanced suppression of corticosterone levels following an acute stress, reduced locomotor activity, and enhanced habituation to novel environments. Furthermore, we also show that female, but not male, Nrg1(Tn) rats have impaired prepulse inhibition. Finally, we provide evidence that sex-specific changes are not likely attributable to major disruptions in the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, as measures of pubertal onset, estrous cyclicity, and reproductive capacity were unaltered in female Nrg1(Tn) rats. Our results provide further support for both the involvement of NRG1 in the control of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function and the sex-specific nature of this relationship.
Cholesterol 7-hydroxylase (CYP7A1) regulates the balance between cholesterol supply and metabolism by catalyzing the rate-limiting step of bile acid biosynthesis. The transcriptional activity of CYP7A1 is tightly controlled by various nuclear receptors. A forkhead transcription factor O1 (FOXO1) plays a critical role in metabolism, and insulin inactivates FOXO1 through Akt-dependent phosphorylation and nuclear exclusion. We investigated the role of insulin- Akt-FOXO1 signaling pathway in CYP7A1 transcriptional regulation since we found putative insulin-response elements, FOXO1 binding sequences, in both rat and human CYP7A1 promoters. However, ectopic expression of FOXO1 increased the rat CYP7A1-, but mildly reduced human CYP7A1-promoter activities in a dose-dependent manner. Similarly to bile acids, insulin treatment increased small heterodimer partner (SHP) mRNA rapidly and transiently, leading to the suppression of CYP7A1 transcription in both human and rodents. Chromatin immunoprecipitation showed that FOXO1 directly bound to rat CYP1A1 promoter in the absence of insulin. FOXO1 binding to the rat promoter was diminished by insulin treatment as well as by expression of SHP. Our results suggest that the stimulation of insulin- signaling pathway of Akt-FOXO1 and SHP expression may regulate cholesterol/bile acid metabolisms in liver, linking carbohydrate and cholesterol metabolic pathways. A prolonged exposure of insulin in hyperinsulinemic insulin resistance or diabetic status represses CYP7A1 transcription and bile acid biosynthesis through SHP induction and FOXO1 inactivation, leading to impairment of the hepatic cholesterol/bile acid metabolisms.
Regulated spindle orientation maintains epithelial tissue integrity and stem cell asymmetric cell division. In Drosophila melanogaster neural stem cells (neuroblasts), the scaffolding protein Canoe (Afadin/Af-6 in mammals) regulates spindle orientation, but its protein interaction partners and mechanism of action are unknown. In this paper, we use our recently developed induced cell polarity system to dissect the molecular mechanism of Canoe-mediated spindle orientation. We show that a previously uncharacterized portion of Canoe directly binds the Partner of Inscuteable (Pins) tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domain. The Canoe-Pins(TPR) interaction recruits Canoe to the cell cortex and is required for activation of the Pins(TPR)-Mud (nuclear mitotic apparatus in mammals) spindle orientation pathway. We show that the Canoe Ras-association (RA) domains directly bind RanGTP and that both the Canoe(RA) domains and RanGTP are required to recruit Mud to the cortex and activate the Pins/Mud/dynein spindle orientation pathway.

Conditioned behavior as observed during classical conditioning in a group of identically treated animals provides insights into the physiological process of learning and memory formation. However, several studies in vertebrates found a remarkable difference between the group-average behavioral performance and the behavioral characteristics of individual animals. Here, we analyzed a large number of data (1640 animals) on olfactory conditioning in the honeybee (Apis mellifera). The data acquired during absolute and differential classical conditioning differed with respect to the number of conditioning trials, the conditioned odors, the intertrial intervals, and the time of retention tests. We further investigated data in which animals were tested for spontaneous recovery from extinction. In all data sets we found that the gradually increasing group-average learning curve did not adequately represent the behavior of individual animals. Individual behavior was characterized by a rapid and stable acquisition of the conditioned response (CR), as well as by a rapid and stable cessation of the CR following unrewarded stimuli. In addition, we present and evaluate different model hypotheses on how honeybees form associations during classical conditioning by implementing a gradual learning process on the one hand and an all-or-none learning process on the other hand. In summary, our findings advise that individual behavior should be recognized as a meaningful predictor for the internal state of a honeybee--irrespective of the group-average behavioral performance.
This is a pictorial case report of previously unreported intra-procedural complication of an intra-procedural migrated stent-coil complex. It shows fluoroscopic detail of the migration of a stent with the help of a migrated coil with subsequent retrieval of coil and deployment of a second stent proximally. It also briefly covers postulated mechanisms for this in the discussion. In our clinical practice we experienced an unusual case during stent assisted coiling of a right Posterior Communicating Artery Aneurysm (PCOM) where a coil migrated through a deployed stent into the parent artery and become ensnared into a distal stent strut. This caused stent migration distally. Studies have shown that stent assisted coiling of cerebral aneurysms is an effective treatment that lowers the risk of recurrence. There are several complications associated with both coiling and stent deployment. Multiple cases of individual coil migration and stent misplacement have been described in the literature, such as coil protrusion through a stent with open cell designs and a single case of delayed coil migration through a deployed stent. Various aetiologies are described for these, which we cover, and we postulate on the factors relevant to our case and suggest the biggest contributing factor was an open side stent design. We believe this is a rare documented acute case of a migrated coil that has assisted stent migration. We suggest caution particularly when small coils need to be deployed alongside open cell and side design stents.
More than one quarter of all transient ischemic attacks (TIA's) and ischemic strokes involve tissue supplied by the vertebrobasilar (VB) circulation. Vertebral artery stenotic lesion, particularly at the origin of the vertebral artery, is not uncommon but it is a less studied area. Here we present our endovascular treatment experience in a group of patients with vertebral artery orifice stenosis. We enrolled a group of patients with vertebral artery orifice stenosis who presented with confirmed posterior circulation stroke. Vertebrobasilar insufficiency syndrome was confirmed by imaging studies and clinical findings. Vertebral artery stenosis diagnosed by CT or MR Angiography and confirmed by Conventional and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). Angiography was performed by using of femoral or radial artery approach. From October 2008 to January 2010, forty-three consecutive patients (69.8% men) underwent stent placement for symptomatic vertebral artery orifice stenosis. Mean degree of stenosis was 70.45 +/- 7.455 percent and mean age was 71.65 +/- 7.743 years . In the 22 patients (22/43, 51.16%) stenosis were in left side. In the thirty patients (30/43, 69.6%) there was evidence of atherosclerotic disease in the internal carotid artery and in the 23% contra lateral vertebral artery was involved. There were five different cases with left renal artery stenosis especially in the men with left vertebral artery stenosis. Initial technical success rate was 100%. No cerebrovascular complications or embolic events occurred. Six months control angiography follow-up revealed one patient with stent occlusion and moderate (40%) restenosis in the another patient. According to our finding angioplasty and stenting for vertebral artery orifice stenosis is safe and effective. Patients with vertebral artery orifice disease frequently have coexistent atherosclerotic stenosis in the other major extracranial arteries including carotid and renal arteries.
Pictorial demonstration of aneurysm lumen thrombosis and diversion of flow hemodynamics with the use of a minimum number of coils in the treatment of hemorrhagic basilar tip aneurysm. We present a 62-year-old lady who underwent endovascular treatment for acute subarachnoid hemorrhage due to a giant basilar tip aneurysm and a left carotico-ophthalmic aneurysm. Following deployment of two of the longest available coils, the procedure was terminated due to a sudden change of jet flow within the aneurysm and unsustainable coil and microcatheter positions in spite of further attempts. Post-procedural follow-up angiogram on day 22, revealed an approximately 90% occlusion of the giant basilar tip aneurysm. Significant reduction in flow dynamic by minimum number of coils can achieve remarkable and near complete thrombosis and occlusion of a giant basilar tip aneurysm.
To propose a new computed tomography (CT)-based classification system for nonaneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH), which predicts patients' discharge clinical outcome and helps to prioritize appropriate patient management. A 5-year, retrospective, two-centre study was carried out involving 1486 patients presenting with SAH. One hundred and ninety patients with nonaneurysmal SAH were included in the study. Initial cranial CT findings at admission were correlated with the patients' discharge outcomes measured using the Modified Rankin Scale (MRS). A CT-based classification system (type 1 e 4) was devised based on the topography of the initial haemorrhage pattern. Seventy-five percent of the patients had type 1 haemorrhage and all these patients had a good clinical outcome with a discharge MRS of 1. Eight percent of the patients presented with type 2 haemorrhage, 62% of which were discharged with MRS of 1 and 12% of patients had MRS 3 or 4. Type 3 haemorrhage was found in 10%, of which 16% had good clinical outcome, but 53% had moderate to severe disability (MRS 3 and 4) and 5% were discharged with severe disability (MRS 5). Six percent of patients presented with type 4 haemorrhage of which 42% of the patients had moderate to severe disability (MRS 3 and 4), 42% had severe disability and one-sixth of the patients died. Highly significant differences were found between type 1 (1a and 1b) and type 2 (p 0.003); type 2 and type 3 (p  0.002); type 3 and type 4 (p  0.001). Haemorrhages of the type 1 category are usually benign and do not warrant an extensive battery of clinical and radiological investigations. Type 2 haemorrhages have a varying prognosis and need to be investigated and managed along similar lines as that of an aneurysmal haemorrhage with emphasis towards radiological investigation. Type 3 and type 4 haemorrhages need to be extensively investigated to find an underlying cause.
The ability to react fast and efficiently in threatening situations is paramount for the survival of organisms and has been decisive in our evolutionary history. Defense mechanisms in primates rely on the fast recognition of potential predators and facial expressions of conspecifics. The neural circuitry responsible for the detection of threat is generally thought to be centered on the amygdala. Although it is a pivotal structure in the processing of emotional stimuli, the amygdala does not seem necessary for the early stages of this process. Here we show that bilateral neurotoxic lesions of the superior colliculus in infant capuchins monkeys impaired the recognition of a rubber-snake in a threat-reward conflict task. Lesioned monkeys were uninhibited by a snake in a food-reward retrieval task. Lack of inhibition in the task was observed over the course of 15 weeks. The long lasting recognition impairment of a natural predator observed here is similar to the tameness aspects of Kluver-Bucy syndrome, indicating an important role of this structure in threat recognition.
The rubber hand illusion (RHI) occurs when a person misattributes a fake hand as his or her own hand. Previously, the RHI has been examined with both the rubber hand and the participant's real hand uncrossed with regards to the participant's midline. The present study examined the strength of the illusion when the real hand, the fake hand or both hands are placed across the body midline. The illusion was induced by stroking the rubber hand and the real hand simultaneously. Asynchronous brushing served as a comparable condition since the RHI is not seen under these circumstances. Participants indicated where they felt their real hand was located by marking a sheet of paper under the table on which their unseen hand was placed. A significant RHI was observed with both the hands uncrossed. In contrast, no RHI was present when either hand was crossed over the midline. Additionally, a shift in hand judgment towards the midline was observed when participants crossed their real hand. These results indicate the importance of the midline in understanding representations of the body.

Functional properties of neurons are often distributed nonrandomly within a cortical area and form topographic maps that reveal insights into neuronal organization and interconnection. Some functional maps, such as in visual cortex, are fairly straightforward to discern with a variety of techniques, while other maps, such as in auditory cortex, have resisted easy characterization. In order to determine appropriate protocols for establishing accurate functional maps in auditory cortex, artificial topographic maps were probed under various conditions, and the accuracy of estimates formed from the actual maps was quantified. Under these conditions, low-complexity maps such as sound frequency can be estimated accurately with as few as 25 total samples (e.g., electrode penetrations or imaging pixels) if neural responses are averaged together. More samples are required to achieve the highest estimation accuracy for higher complexity maps, and averaging improves map estimate accuracy even more than increasing sampling density. Undersampling without averaging can result in misleading map estimates, while undersampling with averaging can lead to the false conclusion of no map when one actually exists. Uniform sample spacing only slightly improves map estimation over nonuniform sample spacing typical of serial electrode penetrations. Tessellation plots commonly used to visualize maps estimated using nonuniform sampling are always inferior to linearly interpolated estimates, although differences are slight at higher sampling densities. Within primary auditory cortex, then, multiunit sampling with at least 100 samples would likely result in reasonable feature map estimates for all but the highest complexity maps and the highest variability that might be expected.
Handling and mixing ultrasmall volumes of reactants in parallel can increase the throughput and complexity of screening assays while simultaneously reducing reagent consumption. Microfabricated silicon and plastic can provide reliable fluidic devices, but cannot typically handle total volumes smaller than 1  10(-12) l. Self-assembled soft matter nanocontainers can in principle significantly improve miniaturization and biocompatibility, but exploiting their full potential is a challenge due to their small dimensions. Here, we show that small unilamellar lipid vesicles can be used to mix volumes as small as 1  10(-19) l in a reproducible and highly parallelized fashion. The self-enclosed nanoreactors are functionalized with lipids of opposite charge to achieve reliable fusion. Single vesicles encapsulating one set of reactants are immobilized on a glass surface and then fused with diffusing vesicles of opposite charge that carry a complementary set of reactants. We find that 85% of the 1  10(6) cm(-2) surface-tethered nanoreactors undergo non-deterministic fusion, which is leakage-free in all cases, and the system allows up to three to four consecutive mixing events per nanoreactor.
Depression has been linked to executive dysfunction and emotion recognition impairments, associated with abnormalities in fronto-temporal and subcortical brain regions. Little is known about changes of different empathy subcomponents during depression, with potential impairments being related to the interpersonal difficulties of depressed patients. Twenty patients treated for an episode of unipolar depression and 20 matched healthy controls were assessed. Measures of dispositional and behavioural empathy components were administered along with tests of cognitive flexibility, response inhibition and working memory. Relative to controls, depressed patients showed higher self-reported dispositional empathy scores, mainly driven by increased personal distress scores. Patients and controls did not differ significantly in terms of behavioural cognitive empathy, empathic concern and personal affective involvement or in their executive function performance. In the patients, cognitive flexibility and response inhibition accuracy were associated with behavioural empathy. While an increased disposition towards feeling personal distress in response to other people's suffering seems to be in generally related to depressive symptoms, behavioural empathy might depend on the functional integrity of executive control during an episode of clinical depression. Impairments in this regard could contribute to the interpersonal difficulties depressed patients are frequently faced with which might have important implications for treatment.
Single-nucleotide and diplotype associations with 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD(17)) total score changes were examined, based on catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) rs165599 status in duloxetine-treated, self-identified white patients with major depressive disorder. COMT rs165737 and a diplotype containing COMT rs165599 and COMT rs165737 were associated with HAMD(17) total score changes.
The main aim of this study was to compare patients with euthymic bipolar I (BDI) and bipolar II (BDII) disorders and healthy controls in measures of social cognition. Additional aims were to explore the association between social cognition performance with neurocognitive impairments and psychosocial functioning. Eighty one euthymic patients with BDI or BDII and 34 healthy controls were included. All subjects completed tests to assess verbal memory, attention, and executive functions. Additionally theory of mind (ToM) and facial emotion recognition measures were included. Psychosocial functioning was assessed with the GAF. Both groups of patients had lower performance than healthy controls in ToM, and a lower recognition of fear facial expression. When neurocognitive impairments and exposure to medications were controlled, performance in ToM and recognition of fear facial expression did not allow predicting if a subject was patient or healthy control. Social cognition measures not enhance variance beyond explained by neurocognitive impairments and they were not independent predictors of psychosocial functioning. Impairments in facial emotion recognition and ToM are mediated, at least partly, by attention-executive functions deficits and exposure to psychotropic medications. Likewise, social cognition measures did not contribute to variance beyond neurocognitive impairments.
This mini review highlights recent research on the control of breathing that places gliotransmission and purinergic signaling as core drivers to the respiratory circuits in the brainstem. These elements underpin transduction of hypercapnia, hypoxia and acid sensing at central and peripheral chemoreceptors. The processes involve propagation of an extracellular ATP signal and associated P2 receptor activation, where ATP acts on both the glial cells and the associated output cells in the sensor complex - the respiratory rhythm generator neurons and the ventral inspiratory pre-motor neurons. At the peripheral carotid chemoreceptor, the hypoxia sensor likely involves the gasotransmitter H(2)S, complemented by purinergic neurotransmission.
Controversy persists regarding participation of the muscarinic-activated potassium current (c(KACh)) in small and moderate vagal bradycardia. We investigated this by (i) critical examination of earlier experimental data for mechanisms proposed to operate in modest vagal bradycardia (modulation of I(f) and inhibition of a junctional Na(+) current) and (ii) experiments performed on isolated vagally-innervated guinea-pig atria. In 8 superperfused preparations, 10-s trains of vagal stimulation (1 to 20Hz) produced a bradycardia that ranged from 1 to 80%. Hyperpolarisation of sinoatrial cells accompanied bradycardia in 65/67 observations (linear correlation between bradycardia and increase in maximum diastolic potential (mV)=0.076x%; R(2)=0.57; P&lt;0.001). In bath-mounted preparations single supramaximal stimuli to the vagus immediately and briefly increased pacemaker cycle length in 7 of 18 preparations. This response was eliminated by 300nM tertiapin-Q. Trains of 10 single supramaximal vagal stimuli applied at 1-s intervals caused progressive increase in overall cycle length during the train; immediate and brief increases in cycle length occurred following some stimuli. Immediate brief responses and part of the slower response to the stimulus train were removed by 300nM tertiapin-Q. Summary: experimental data shows that small and modest vagal bradycardia is accompanied by hyperpolarisation of the pacemaker cell which is severely attenuated by tertiapin-Q. These observations support the idea that activation of I(KACh) occurs at all levels of vagal bradycardia. Contradictory conclusions from earlier studies may be attributed to the nature of experimental models and experimental design.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) directly activates vagal afferent neurons resulting in coordinated gastrointestinal functions and satiation. In vitro, the effects of CCK on dissociated vagal afferent neurons are mediated via activation of the vanilloid family of transient receptor potential (TRPV) cation channels leading to membrane depolarization and an increase in cytosolic calcium. However, the cellular transduction pathway(s) involved in this process between CCK receptors and channel opening have not been identified. To address this question, we monitored CCK-induced cytosolic calcium responses in dissociated nodose neurons from rat in the presence or absence of reagents that interact with various intracellular signaling pathways. We found that the phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor U-73122 significantly attenuated CCK-induced responses, whereas the inactive analog U-73433 had no effect. Responses to CCK were also cross-desensitized by a brief pretreatment with m-3M3FBS, a PLC stimulator. Together these observations strongly support the participation of PLC in the effects of CCK on vagal afferent neurons. In contrast, pharmacological antagonism of phospholipase A(2), protein kinase A, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase revealed that they are not critical in the CCK-induced calcium response in nodose neurons. Further investigations of the cellular pathways downstream of PLC showed that neither protein kinase C (PKC) nor generation of diacylglycerol (DAG) or release of calcium from intracellular stores participates in the response to CCK. These results suggest that alteration of membrane phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)) content by PLC activity mediates CCK-induced calcium response and that this pathway may underlie the vagally-mediated actions of CCK to induce satiation and alter gastrointestinal functions.
The effect of aging on the number, size, conduction velocity, and vasoconstrictive function of unmyelinated fibers in ovarian nerve accompanying the ovarian artery was studied in adult (4-7mo) and aged (28-31mo) rats. Morphological observation by electron microscopy showed that the ovarian nerve contains mainly unmyelinated fibers with only a small percentage (less than 4%) of myelinated fibers in either age group. The number of unmyelinated fibers tended to decrease in aged rats (71759) compared to adult rats (80148), especially in fibers of smaller diameter, although this difference was not statistically significant. The maximum conduction velocity of unmyelinated fibers within the ovarian nerve was similar when compared between adult (1.050.04m/s) and aged (1.020.05m/s) rats. Under anesthesia, electrical stimulation of the distal portion of a severed ovarian nerve reduced ovarian blood flow, as measured by laser Doppler flowmetry, when the stimulus intensity was above the threshold for unmyelinated C fibers. Stimulation of the ovarian nerve with supra-maximum intensity (10V) at 2-20Hz frequencies produced frequency-dependent reductions in ovarian blood flow in both adult and aged rats. There were no significant differences in magnitude of the reduction in ovarian blood flow with comparable frequencies of electrical stimulation of the ovarian nerve between adult and aged rats. Collectively, these data indicate that unmyelinated C fibers in ovarian nerve are maintained in number, size, conduction ability, and vasoconstrictor function in aged rats.
Despite sleep-loss-induced cognitive deficits, little is known about the cellular adaptations that occur with sleep loss. We used brain slices obtained from mice that were sleep deprived for 8h to examine the electrophysiological effects of sleep deprivation (SD). We employed a modified pedestal (flowerpot) over water method for SD that eliminated rapid eye movement sleep and greatly reduced non-rapid eye movement sleep. In layer V/VI pyramidal cells of the medial prefrontal cortex, miniature excitatory post synaptic current amplitude was slightly reduced, miniature inhibitory post synaptic currents were unaffected, and intrinsic membrane excitability was increased after SD.
Past research has indicated that when individuals observe biological movements many areas in the observer's motor system become active. Nonetheless, recent behavioral evidence showed that observed movements can interfere with execution of incompatible movements, especially the biological ones. However, the hypothesis that the interference originates within a common neural network, encoding both movement observation and execution, and responding preferentially to biological movements, still awaits confirmation. To test this hypothesis, in the present fMRI study we compared patterns of activation obtained when participants executed finger-movements after having observed either a biological or a non biological model performing compatible (imitative) or incompatible (non imitative) movements. Moreover, we tested the possibility that imitative responses are influenced by the emotional facial expression (sad, neutral, angry) presented before the observed movement. Behaviorally, participants showed a marginally larger compatibility effect (compatible movements faster than incompatible movements) in the biological condition than in the non biological condition. In the imaging data, the interaction testing for areas more active when the observed model was biological (compared with non biological) and performed compatible movements (compared with incompatible movements), activated a network including the motor, premotor and parietal cortices. Notably, the interaction was significant for the neutral and sad facial expressions only. We showed that observing biological movements modulates the activation of motor-related regions, by facilitating the execution of compatible movements and/or interfering with the execution of incompatible movements.
Age-related declines in memory for context have been linked to volume loss in the hippocampal head (HH) with age. However, it remains unclear how this volumetric decline correlates with age-related changes in whole-brain activity during context encoding, and subsequent context retrieval. In the current study we examine this. We collected functional magnetic resonance imaging data in young and older adults during the encoding of item, spatial context and temporal context. HH volume and subsequent retrieval performance was measured in all participants. In young adults only there was a positive three-way correlation between larger HH volumes, better memory retrieval, and increased activity in right hippocampus, right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) and midline brain regions during episodic encoding. In contrast, older adults exhibited a positive three-way association between HH volume, generalized activity in bilateral hippocampus and dorsolateral PFC across all encoding tasks, and subsequent spatial context retrieval. Young adults also engaged this network, but only during the most difficult temporal context encoding task and activity in this network correlated with subsequent temporal context retrieval. We conclude that age-related volumetric reductions in HH disrupted the structure-function association between the hippocampus and activity in the first general encoding network recruited by young adults. Instead, older adults recruited those brain regions young adults only engaged for the most difficult temporal task, at lower difficulty levels. This altered pattern of association correlated with spatial context retrieval in older adults, but was not sufficient to maintain context memory abilities overall.
Nucleus cuneiformis (NCF) along with periaqueductal gray (PAG) and rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) is a part of descending system for pain modulation. Cannabinoids have analgesic effects on the PAG and RVM. This study investigates the possible role of cannabinoids in pain modulation in the NCF. Cannabinoid agonist, WIN55,212-2 (5, 10 and 20g/0.3l DMSO per side), and selective cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist, AM251(1, 5 and 10g/0.3l DMSO per side), were microinjected alone or in succession. As models of acute and inflammatory pain, tail-flick and formalin test were utilized to examine the effects of these drugs on pain modulation in 5min time blocks for 60min. Results of tail-flick and formalin tests demonstrated a dose-dependent analgesic effects for WIN55,212-2, with the most significant response at the dose of 20g/side. The analgesic responses were more effective during the first 45-min period of the tail-flick test (P&lt;0.001) and during the late phase (P&lt;0.001) of formalin test, compared to the early phase (P&lt;0.05). These analgesic effects were blocked in the presence of AM251 (1g/0.3l DMSO per side) in both tests. Administration of AM251 alone did not have any effect on nociceptive responses in either test. The cannabinoid-mediated analgesia demonstrated in this study suggests the presence of a cannabinoid-sensitive nociceptive modulatory system in the NCF.
Synaptic transmission involves a fast synchronous phase and a slower asynchronous phase of neurotransmitter release that are regulated by distinct Ca(2+) sensors. Though the Ca(2+) sensor for rapid exocytosis, synaptotagmin I, has been studied in depth, the sensor for asynchronous release remains unknown. In a screen for neuronal Ca(2+) sensors that respond to changes in [Ca(2+)] with markedly slower kinetics than synaptotagmin I, we observed that Doc2--another Ca(2+), SNARE, and lipid-binding protein--operates on timescales consistent with asynchronous release. Moreover, up- and downregulation of Doc2 expression levels in hippocampal neurons increased or decreased, respectively, the slow phase of synaptic transmission. Synchronous release, when triggered by single action potentials, was unaffected by manipulation of Doc2 but was enhanced during repetitive stimulation in Doc2 knockdown neurons, potentially due to greater vesicle availability. In summary, we propose that Doc2 is a Ca(2+) sensor that is kinetically tuned to regulate asynchronous neurotransmitter release.
Sensory-motor circuits in the spinal cord are constructed with a fine specificity that coordinates motor behavior, but the mechanisms that direct sensory connections with their motor neuron partners remain unclear. The dorsoventral settling position of motor pools in the spinal cord is known to match the distal-to-proximal position of their muscle targets in the limb, but the significance of invariant motor neuron positioning is unknown. An analysis of sensory-motor connectivity patterns in FoxP1 mutant mice, where motor neuron position has been scrambled, shows that the final pattern of sensory-motor connections is initiated by the projection of sensory axons to discrete dorsoventral domains of the spinal cord without regard for motor neuron subtype or, indeed, the presence of motor neurons. By implication, the clustering and dorsoventral settling position of motor neuron pools serve as a determinant of the pattern of sensory input specificity and thus motor coordination.
Neurons typically settle at positions that match the location of their synaptic targets, creating topographic maps. In the spinal cord, the organization of motor neurons into discrete clusters is linked to the location of their muscle targets, establishing a topographic map of punctate design. To define the significance of motor pool organization for neuromuscular map formation, we assessed the role of cadherin-catenin signaling in motor neuron positioning and limb muscle innervation. We find that joint inactivation of - and -catenin scrambles motor neuron settling position in the spinal cord but fails to erode the predictive link between motor neuron transcriptional identity and muscle target. Inactivation of N-cadherin perturbs pool positioning in similar ways, albeit with reduced penetrance. These findings reveal that cadherin-catenin signaling directs motor pool patterning and imposes topographic order on an underlying identity-based neural map.
Assemblies of -amyloid (A) peptides are pathological mediators of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and are produced by the sequential cleavages of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by -secretase (BACE1) and -secretase. The generation of A is coupled to neuronal activity, but the molecular basis is unknown. Here, we report that the immediate early gene Arc is required for activity-dependent generation of A. Arc is a postsynaptic protein that recruits endophilin2/3 and dynamin to early/recycling endosomes that traffic AMPA receptors to reduce synaptic strength in both hebbian and non-hebbian forms of plasticity. The Arc-endosome also traffics APP and BACE1, and Arc physically associates with presenilin1 (PS1) to regulate -secretase trafficking and confer activity dependence. Genetic deletion of Arc reduces A load in a transgenic mouse model of AD. In concert with the finding that patients with AD can express anomalously high levels of Arc, we hypothesize that Arc participates in the pathogenesis of AD.
Which brain circuits underlie retrieval of distant memories? Goshen et al. (2011) use a powerful optogenetic-based approach to reveal the critical contribution of the hippocampus to remote memory retrieval. In so doing, they provide new evidence toward resolving a long-standing debate in cognitive neuroscience.


Agonist-induced internalization was observed for both inducible and constitutively expressed forms of the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor. These were also internalized by the peptide orexin A, which has no direct affinity for the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor, but only when the orexin OX(1) receptor was co-expressed along with the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor. This effect of orexin A was concentration-dependent and blocked by OX(1) receptor antagonists. Moreover, the ability of orexin A to internalize the CB(1) receptor was also blocked by CB(1) receptor antagonists. Remarkably, orexin A was substantially more potent in producing internalization of the CB(1) receptor than in causing internalization of the bulk OX(1) receptor population, and this was true in cells in which the CB(1) receptor was maintained at a constant level, whereas levels of OX(1) could be varied and vice versa. Both co-immunoprecipitation and cell surface, homogenous time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer based on covalent labeling of N-terminal &quot;SNAP&quot; and &quot;CLIP&quot; tags present in the extracellular N-terminal domain of the receptors confirmed the capacity of these two receptors to heteromultimerize. These studies confirm the capacity of the CB(1) and OX(1) receptors to interact directly and demonstrate that this complex has unique regulatory characteristics. The higher potency of the agonist orexin A to regulate the CB(1)-OX(1) heteromer compared with the OX(1)-OX(1) homomer present in the same cells and the effects of CB(1) receptor antagonists on the function of orexin A suggest an interplay between these two systems that may modulate appetite, feeding, and wakefulness.
H2 relaxin is a peptide hormone associated with a number of therapeutically relevant physiological effects, including regulation of collagen metabolism and multiple vascular control pathways. It is currently in phase III clinical trials for the treatment of acute heart failure due to its ability to induce vasodilation and influence renal function. It comprises 53 amino acids and is characterized by two separate polypeptide chains (A-B) that are cross-linked by three disulfide bonds. This size and complex structure represents a considerable challenge for the chemical synthesis of H2 relaxin, a major limiting factor for the exploration of modifications and derivatizations of this peptide, to optimize effect and drug-like characteristics. To address this issue, we describe the solid phase peptide synthesis and structural and functional evaluation of 24 analogues of H2 relaxin with truncations at the termini of its peptide chains. We show that it is possible to significantly truncate both the N and C termini of the B-chain while still retaining potent biological activity. This suggests that these regions are not critical for interactions with the H2 relaxin receptor, RXFP1. In contrast, truncations do reduce the activity of H2 relaxin for the related receptor RXFP2 by improving RXFP1 selectivity. In addition to new mechanistic insights into the function of H2 relaxin, this study identifies a critical active core with 38 amino acids. This minimized core shows similar antifibrotic activity as native H2 relaxin when tested in human BJ3 cells and thus represents an attractive receptor-selective lead for the development of novel relaxin therapeutics.
Chemokine receptors play a major role in immune system regulation and have consequently been targets for drug development leading to the discovery of several small molecule antagonists. Given the large size and predominantly extracellular receptor interaction of endogenous chemokines, small molecules often act more deeply in an allosteric mode. However, opposed to the well described molecular interaction of allosteric modulators in class C 7-transmembrane helix (7TM) receptors, the interaction in class A, to which the chemokine receptors belong, is more sparsely described. Using the CCR5 chemokine receptor as a model system, we studied the molecular interaction and conformational interchange required for proper action of various orthosteric chemokines and allosteric small molecules, including the well known CCR5 antagonists TAK-779, SCH-C, and aplaviroc, and four novel CCR5 ago-allosteric molecules. A chimera was successfully constructed between CCR5 and the closely related CCR2 by transferring all extracellular regions of CCR2 to CCR5, i.e. a Trojan horse that resembles CCR2 extracellularly but signals through a CCR5 transmembrane unit. The chimera bound CCR2 (CCL2 and CCL7), but not CCR5 chemokines (CCL3 and CCL5), with CCR2-like high affinities and potencies throughout the CCR5 signaling unit. Concomitantly, high affinity binding of small molecule CCR5 agonists and antagonists was retained in the transmembrane region. Importantly, whereas the agonistic and antagonistic properties were preserved, the allosteric enhancement of chemokine binding was disrupted. In summary, the Trojan horse chimera revealed that orthosteric and allosteric sites could be structurally separated and still act together with transmission of agonism and antagonism across the different receptor units.
Neurological disabilities following traumatic brain injury (TBI) may be due to excitotoxic neuronal loss. The excitotoxic loss of neurons following TBI occurs largely due to hyperactivation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), leading to toxic levels of intracellular Ca(2+). The axon guidance and outgrowth protein collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP2) has been linked to NMDAR trafficking and may be involved in neuronal survival following excitotoxicity. Lentivirus-mediated CRMP2 knockdown or treatment with a CRMP2 peptide fused to HIV TAT protein (TAT-CBD3) blocked neuronal death following glutamate exposure probably via blunting toxicity from delayed calcium deregulation. Application of TAT-CBD3 attenuated postsynaptic NMDAR-mediated currents in cortical slices. In exploring modulation of NMDARs by TAT-CBD3, we found that TAT-CBD3 induced NR2B internalization in dendritic spines without altering somal NR2B surface expression. Furthermore, TAT-CBD3 reduced NMDA-mediated Ca(2+) influx and currents in cultured neurons. Systemic administration of TAT-CBD3 following a controlled cortical impact model of TBI decreased hippocampal neuronal death. These findings support TAT-CBD3 as a novel neuroprotective agent that may increase neuronal survival following injury by reducing surface expression of dendritic NR2B receptors.
Virus-induced spinal cord damage results from a cytolytic effect on anterior horn cells or from predominantly cellular immune-mediated damage of long white matter tracts. Infection with the hepatitis virus group, most notably hepatitis C virus, has infrequently been associated with the occurrence of myelitis. The pathogenesis of hepatitis virus-associated myelitis has not been clarified: virus-induced autoimmunity (humoral or cell-mediated, possibly vasculitic) seems the most likely disease mechanism. Limited available information offers no evidence of direct hepatitis virus infection of the spinal cord. Virus neuropenetration may occur after virus-infected mononuclear cells penetrate the blood-brain barrier, but a true neurolytic effect has not been demonstrated. Attacks of acute myelitis usually respond favorably to immunomodulatory therapy. Antiviral therapy plays no confirmed role in the treatment of acute bouts of myelitis, but may limit the relapsing course of HCV-associated myelitis.
In this study, we assessed B cell subsets, including Bregs, during stable and active disease in relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients and related B cell subsets to vitamin D status. We report that RRMS patients have a decreased percentage of both memory B cells and Bregs compared to healthy controls. During a relapse, the reduction in Bregs involved in particular nave Bregs. We found no correlation between vitamin D status and B cell subsets. An effect of vitamin D on Bregs cannot be ruled out, since it might be the function that is interfered with instead of relative numbers.
Immunological responses to protect against excessive inflammation can be regulated by the central nervous system through the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway wherein acetylcholine released from vagus nerves can inhibit inflammatory cytokines. Although a role for the 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (7 nAChR) in mediating this pathway has been suggested, pharmacological modulation of the pathway by selective agonists remains to be further elucidated. In this study, the role of 7 nAChRs in the regulation of TNF- release was investigated using high affinity and selective 7 nAChR agonists in mouse peritoneal macrophage and human whole blood in vitro, and in mouse serum in vivo. In mouse peritoneal macrophages, LPS-induced TNF- release in vitro was inhibited by a selective 7 nAChR agonist, A-833834 (5-[6-(5-Methyl-hexahydro-pyrrolo[3,4-c]pyrrol-2-yl)-pyridazin-3-yl]-1H-indole), and that effect was attenuated by 7 nAChR antagonist methyllycaconitine. The inhibitory effect of A-833834 on LPS-induced TNF- release was also observed in human whole blood in vitro. I.v. LPS-induced TNF- release in mouse serum was attenuated following i.p. administration of A-833834. Similarly, i.v. LPS-induced TNF- release in mouse serum was also attenuated following i.p. administration of A-585539, another 7 nAChR agonist with limited brain penetration, suggesting that these effects are mediated by peripheral 7 nAChRs. A-833834 was also efficacious in suppressing TNF- release in mouse serum following oral administration in zymosan-induced peritonitis. These studies collectively demonstrate that selectively targeting 7 nAChRs could offer a novel therapeutic modality to treat acute and chronic inflammatory disease states.
IL-6 is an important signaling molecule in the CNS. CNS neurons express IL-6 receptors and their signal transduction molecules, consistent with a role for IL-6 in neuronal physiology. Research indicates that IL-6 levels are low in the normal brain but can be significantly elevated in CNS injury and disease. Relatively little is known about how the elevated levels of IL-6 affect neurons. In the current study we show that under conditions of chronic exposure, IL-6 induces alterations in the level of protein expression in developing CNS cells. Such changes may play a role in the altered CNS function observed in CNS conditions associated with elevated levels of IL-6 in the CNS.
The function and the role phytoceramide (PCER) and phytosphingosine (PSO) in the central nervous system has not been well studied. This study was aimed at investigating the possible roles of PCER and PSO in glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in cultured neuronal cells and memory function in mice. Phytoceramide showed neuro-protective activity in the glutamate-induced toxicity in cultured cortical neuronal cells. Neither phytosphingosine nor tetraacetylphytosphingosine (TAPS) showed neuroproective effects in neuronal cells. PCER (50 mg/kg, p.o.) recovered the scopolamine-induced reduction in step-through latency in the passive avoidance test; however, PSO did not modulate memory function on this task. The ameliorating effects of PCER on spatial memory were confirmed by the Morris water maze test. In conclusion, through behavioral and neurochemical experimental results, it was demonstrated that central administration of PCER produces amelioration of memory impairment. These results suggest that PCER plays an important role in neuroprotection and memory enhancement and PCER could be a potential new therapeutic agent for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.

The aim in this project was to synthesize and to study fluorine-18 labeled analogues of l-deprenyl which bind selectively to the enzyme monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B). Three fluorinated l-deprenyl analogues have been generated in multistep organic syntheses. The most promising fluorine-18 compound N-[(2S)-1-[(18)F]fluoro-3-phenylpropan-2-yl]-N-methylprop-2-yn-1-amine (4c) was synthesized by a one-step fluorine-18 nucleophilic substitution reaction. Autoradiography on human brain tissue sections demonstrated specific binding for compound 4c to brain regions known to have a high content of MAO-B. In addition, the corresponding nonradioactive fluorine-19 compound (13) inhibited recombinant human MAO-B with an IC(50) of 170.5  29 nM but did not inhibit recombinant human MAO-A (IC(50) &gt; 2000 nM), demonstrating its specificity. Biodistribution of 4c in mice showed high initial brain uptake leveling at 5.2  0.04%ID/g after 2 min post injection. In conclusion, compound 4c is a specific inhibitor of MAO-B with high initial brain uptake in mice and is, therefore, a candidate for further investigation in PET.

Previous reports have indicated that adenosine A3 receptor (A3R) knockout mice are more sensitive to ischemic or hypoxic brain injury. The purpose of this study was to examine if suppression of A3R expression is associated with increase in sensitivity to injury induced by a high dose of methamphetamine (Meth). Adult male A3R null mutant (-/-) mice and their controls (+/+) were injected with four doses (2 h apart) of Meth (10 mg/kg) or saline. Animals were placed in a behavioral activity chamber, equipped with food and water, for 52 h starting from one day after injections. The first 4 h were used for studying exploratory behaviors, and the next 48 h were used to measure locomotor activity. High doses of Meth equally reduced the 4-h exploratory behavior in -/- and +/+ mice. Meth suppressed locomotor activity between 4 and 52 h in both groups, with a greater reduction being found in the -/- mice. Brain tissues were collected at 3 days after the Meth or saline injections. Meth treatment reduced striatal dopamine (DA) levels in both +/+ and -/- mice with an increase in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC)/DA ratio being found only in -/- animals. Meth also significantly increased ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba-1) and cleaved caspase-3 level in striatum, as well as Iba-1 and TNF mRNA expression in nigra in -/-, compared to +/+, mice. Previous studies have shown that pharmacological suppression of vesicular monoamine transport 2 (VMAT2) by reserpine enhanced Meth toxicity by increasing cytosolic DA and inflammation. A significant reduction in striatal VMAT2 expression was found in -/- mice compared to +/+ mice, suggesting that increase in sensitivity to Meth injury in -/- mice may be related to a reduction in VMAT2 expression in these mice. In conclusion, our data suggest that A3R -/- mice are more sensitive to high doses of Meth.
Here, we established a program of low-intensity aerobic exercise and compared the effects of exercise preoperative, postoperative, and a combination of both pre- and postoperative protocols on recovery from sciatic nerve crush injury in mice using behavioral, biochemical, and morphological assays. Sciatic nerve crush was performed in adult male mice. The animals were submitted to preoperative (for 2 weeks), postoperative (for 2 weeks), and a combination of preoperative-postoperative (for 4 weeks) training protocols. During the training period, functional recovery was monitored using the Sciatic Functional Index, the Sciatic Static Index, and mechanical and cold hypersensitivity analyses. Morphological and biochemical alterations were analyzed on the 14th day post-crushing. The functional recovery values of all of the exercised groups were significantly better than the nonexercised group. Biochemically, all of the exercise groups showed a reduction in the increase of interleukin-1 (IL-1) in the sciatic nerve and in the IL-1 and interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R) levels in the spinal cord. However, the levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) decreased only in the postoperative group and in the combination exercise protocols. In the morphological analysis, the combination exercise subjects presented an increase in fiber and axon diameter, in the myelination degree and in the number of myelinated fibers. The present study showed that pre- and postoperative exercise achieved values for functional and morphological sciatic nerve regeneration that were significantly better than either the preoperative or postoperative protocols. This experimental study suggests that physical exercise can restore motor and nerve function to a substantial degree when performed using a prophylactic and therapeutic approach.
An acute injection of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus (VMN) decreases body weight by reducing feeding and increasing energy expenditure (EE) in animals on standard laboratory chow. Animals have divergent responses to high-fat diet (HFD) exposure, with some developing obesity and others remaining lean. In the current study, we tested the hypothesis that BDNF in the VMN reduces HFD-induced obesity. Seventy-two 10-week old rats were allowed HFD ad libitum for 8 weeks and then prepared with bilateral VMN cannulae. Animals were then divided into tertiles based on their fat mass rank: high, intermediate, and low (H, I, and L). Each group was further divided into two subgroups: BDNF (1 g) or control (artificial cerebrospinal fluid, aCSF); they were then injected every other day for 20 days according to subgroup. Energy intake, body weight, and body composition were measured. Other metabolic indexes were measured before and after treatment. In parallel, another 12 rats were fed control diet (CD), VMN-cannulated, and injected with aCSF. HFD exposure induced obesity in the H group, with a significant increase in energy intake, body weight, fat mass, liver size, and serum glucose, insulin, and leptin. BDNF significantly reduced body weight and fat mass in all phenotypes, while it reduced energy intake only in the I group. However, BDNF increased EE, spontaneous physical activity, and fat oxidation in the H group, suggesting that BDNF-induced EE elevation contributed to reduction of body weight and fat mass. Chronic VMN BDNF reduced insulin elevation and/or reversed hyperleptinemia. These data suggest that the VMN is an important site of action for BDNF reduction of HFD-induced obesity.
Lampreys are jawless vertebrates, the most basal group of extant vertebrates. This phylogenetic position makes them invaluable models in comparative studies of the vertebrate central nervous system. Lampreys have been used as vertebrate models to study the neuronal circuits underlying locomotion control and axonal regeneration after spinal cord injury. Inhibitory inputs are key elements in the networks controlling locomotor behaviour, but very little is known about the descending inhibitory projections in lampreys. The aim of this study was to investigate the presence of brain-spinal descending inhibitory pathways in larval stages of the sea lamprey Petromyzon marinus by means of tract-tracing with neurobiotin, combined with immunofluorescence triple-labeling methods. Neurobiotin was applied in the rostral spinal cord at the level of the third gill, and inhibitory populations were identified by the use of cocktails of antibodies raised against glycine and GABA. Glycine-immunoreactive (-ir) neurons that project to the spinal cord were observed in three rhombencephalic reticular nuclei: anterior, middle and posterior. Spinal-projecting GABA-ir neurons were observed in the anterior and posterior reticular nuclei. Double glycine-ir/GABA-ir spinal cord-projecting neurons were only observed in the posterior reticular nucleus, and most glycine-ir neurons did not display GABA immunoreactivity. The present results reveal the existence of inhibitory descending projections from brainstem reticular neurons to the spinal cord, which were analyzed in comparative and functional contexts. Further studies should investigate which spinal cord circuits are affected by these descending inhibitory projections.
In this article, we aim to study the influence of matching degrees of synchronous natural auditory and visual information on cognitive integration. Videos with matched, moderately matched, and mismatched audio-visual information were used as stimuli. The results showed that videos with moderately matched audio-visual information could elicit N400, P600, and late negativity (LN) effects, while videos with mismatched audio-visual information could elicit N400 and late negativity effects as compared with those with matched audio-visual information. It was further proven that N400 might reflect the connection process during multisensory integration, and P600 was more related to the evaluation process on the matching degrees of the audio-visual information in videos. Late negativity under the mismatched condition might be the combination of late frontal negativity (LFN) and late posterior negativity (LPN), which reflected the attention reallocating process and the recognition process, while late negativity under the moderately matched condition might be the LPN, which was related to the recognition process in the human brain. It was demonstrated that cognitive integration of synchronous audio-visual information would be modulated by different matching degrees of audio-visual information as indexed by different event-related potential (ERP) effects.
The time required to complete a fast and accurate movement is a function of its amplitude and the target size. This phenomenon refers to the well known speed-accuracy trade-off. Some interpretations have suggested that the speed-accuracy trade-off is already integrated into the movement planning phase. More specifically, pointing movements may be planned to minimize the variance of the final hand position. However, goal-directed movements can be altered at any time, if for instance, the target location is changed during execution. Thus, one possible limitation of these interpretations may be that they underestimate feedback processes. To further investigate this hypothesis we designed an experiment in which the speed-accuracy trade-off was unexpectedly varied at the hand movement onset by modifying separately the target distance or size, or by modifying both of them simultaneously. These pointing movements were executed from an upright standing position. Our main results showed that the movement time increased when there was a change to the size or location of the target. In addition, the terminal variability of finger position did not change. In other words, it showed that the movement velocity is modulated according to the target size and distance during motor programming or during the final approach, independently of the final variability of the hand position. It suggests that when the speed-accuracy trade-off is unexpectedly modified, terminal feedbacks based on intermediate representations of the endpoint velocity are used to monitor and control the hand displacement. There is clearly no obvious perception-action coupling in this case but rather intermediate processing that may be involved.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been suggested to be a contributing factor of epilepsy, but the underlying mechanisms are not completely explored. Mitochondrial biogenesis is involved in regulation of mitochondrial content, morphology, and function. In the current study, we show mitochondrial biogenesis severely impaired in hippocampi of rats with chronic seizures induced by pilocarpine, as evidenced by decreased mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) content and decreased mtDNA-encoded protein level. Furthermore, we show mtDNA transcription and replication reduced in rats with chronic seizures. These defects were independent of downregulation of mitochondrial biogenesis-related factors, such as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1, nuclear respiratory factor-1, and mitochondrial transcription factor A (Tfam), but depended on reduced Tfam-DNA binding activity. The present study suggests novel mechanisms for mitochondrial dysfunction during chronic seizures.
Much evidence suggests that song traits function as an honest signal of male quality during mate choice in songbirds. Because songbirds learn vocalizations during the juvenile stage, development of the song system and song traits is affected by stressful conditions. However, it remains unknown how stressful conditions affect later song traits during development. To explore the relationship between glucocorticoids and song-system development, we performed in situ hybridization analysis of the glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors in juvenile and adult brains. The glucocorticoid receptor showed weak expression in song nuclei and strong expression in the hypothalamus, whereas the mineralocorticoid receptor showed strong song-nuclei-related expression. Thus, it appears that glucocorticoids are involved in song development directly by binding to receptors in song nuclei or indirectly by regulating sex hormones through hypothalamic hormones.
Morphological studies have shown that the globus pallidus receives dopaminergic innervation from the collaterals of nigrostriatal fibers. Dopamine D1-like receptors are expressed at both pre- and postsynaptic membrane. In the present study, we investigate the in vivo electrophysiological and behavioral effects of pallidal dopamine D1-like receptors in parkinsonian rats. On the lesioned side of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) parkinsonian rats, micropressure ejection of dopamine D1-like receptor agonist, SKF38393, increased (88.2  18.6%) the firing rate in 10 out of the 32 pallidal neurons, but decreased (49.5  6.1%) the firing rate in 14 out of the 32 neurons. Furthermore, on the unlesioned side of parkinsonian rats, SKF38393 increased (43.0  6.3%) the firing rate in 9 out of the 30 pallidal neurons, but decreased (47.1  4.8%) the firing rate in 13 out of the 30 neurons. In behaving rats, unilateral microinjection of SKF38393 led to contralateral deflection in the presence of systemic haloperidol administration. The selective dopamine D1-like receptor antagonist, SCH23390, blocked both SKF38393-induced electrophysiological and behavioral effects. Combining electrophysiological and behavioral findings, we concluded that activation of dopamine D1-like receptors modulates the activity of globus pallidus neurons in rats.
Pigeons use olfactory cues to navigate over unfamiliar areas, and any impairment of the olfactory system generates remarkable reduction of homing performance. Lesion and deprivation studies suggest a critical involvement of the right nostril and thus, the right olfactory bulb (OB) and the left piriform cortex (CPi) for initial orientation. This functional pattern suggests that OB and CPi are asymmetrically connected with a stronger projection from the right OB to the left CPi. However, the structural organization of the olfactory system is not unequivocally clarified yet. Thus, we re-analyzed the system by antero- and retrograde tract tracing with biotinylated dextran amine and choleratoxin subunit B, and we especially evaluated quantitative differences in the number of cells in the OB innervating the left and right CPi. Our anterograde tracing data verified a strong bilateral input to the CPi, and the prepiriform cortex (CPP), as well as small projections to the ipsilateral medial septum and the dorsolateral corticoid area and the nucleus taeniae of the amygdala in both hemispheres. Apart from the bilateral bulbar afferents, CPi in turn receives unequivocal input from the ipsilateral CPP, hyperpallium densocellulare, dorsal arcopallium, and from a cluster of cells located within the frontolateral nidopallium. Thus, an indirect connection between OB and CPi is only mediated by the CPP. For quantitative analysis of bulbar input to the CPi, we counted the number of ipsi- and contralaterally projecting neurons located in the OB after injections into the left or right CPi. Retrogradely labeled cells were found bilaterally in the OB with a higher number of ipsilaterally located cells. The bilaterality index did not differ after left- or right-sided CPi injections indicating that the functional lateralization of the olfactory system is not simply based on differences in the number of projecting axons of the major processing stream.
The use of animal models (including the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine [MPTP] mouse model) to mimic dopaminergic (DAergic) cell loss and striatal dopamine (DA) depletion, as seen in Parkinson's disease (PD), has implicated a multitude of factors that might be associated with DAergic cell death in PD including excitotoxicity, inflammation, and oxidative stress. All of these factors have been shown to be reduced by administration of histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors (HDACis) resulting in some degree of neuroprotection in various models of neurodegenerative disease including in Huntington's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. However, there is limited information of effects of HDACis in PD models. We have previously shown HDACis to be partially protective against 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+))-mediated cell loss in vitro. The present study was conducted to extend these findings to an in vivo PD model. The HDACi valproic acid (VPA) was co-administered with MPTP for 5 days to male FVBn mice and continued for an additional 2 weeks, throughout the period of active neurodegeneration associated with MPTP-mediated DAergic cell loss. VPA was able to partially prevent striatal dopamine depletion and almost completely protect against substantia nigra DAergic cell loss. These results suggest that VPA may be a potential disease-modifying therapy for PD.
One of the prominent features of Alzheimer's disease is the excessive accumulation of the protein amyloid beta (A) in certain areas of the brain leading to neurodegeneration. A is cytotoxic and disrupts several cytoprotective pathways. Recent literature has demonstrated that certain cytochrome P450 (CYP) products are neuroprotective, including epoxide metabolites of arachidonic acid (AA), epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs). The action of A with respect to regionally produced EETs in the brain has yet to be defined. Epoxygenases metabolize AA into four regioisomers of EETs (14,15-, 11,12-, 8,9- and 5,6-EET). EETs are rapidly degraded into dihydroxyeicosatrienoic acids (DiHETEs) by soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH). To determine the effect of A on the epoxygenase activity in different regions of the brain, microsomes were prepared from the cerebrum and cerebellum of adult Sprague-Dawley rats and incubated with 1 and 10 M A for 30 min after which epoxygenase activity assay was performed. Mass spectrometry indicated that incubation with A reduced 14,15-EET production by 30% as compared to vehicle in the cerebrum, but not in the cerebellum. When we separated the cerebrum into cortex and hippocampus, significant decrease in the production of total EETs and DiHETEs were seen in presence of A (81% and 74%) in the cortex. Moreover, 11,12-EET production was decreased to 70% of vehicle in both cortex and hippocampus. Epoxygenase activity in the cultured astrocytes and neurons also showed reduction in total EET and DiHETE production (to 80% and 70% of vehicle respectively) in presence of A. Altogether, our data suggest that A reduces epoxygenase activity differentially in a region-specific and cell-specific manner. The reduction of cytoprotective EETs by A in the cerebrum may make it more prone to degeneration than the cerebellum. Further understanding of these interactions will improve our ability to protect against the pathology of Alzheimer's disease.
The expression and function of nicotinic receptor subunits (nAChRs) in the inner ear before the onset of hearing is not well understood. We investigated the mRNA expression of the 9 and 10 nAChR subunits in sensory hair cells of the embryonic and postnatal rat inner ear. We mapped their spatial and temporal expression in cochlear and vestibular hair cells using qPCR, [35S] labeled cRNA in situ hybridization, and -bungarotoxin (-Bgt) to label the presumptive membrane-bound receptor on cochlear hair cells. The results suggest that (1) the mRNA expression of the 9 subunit precedes expression of the 10 subunit in both cochlear and vestibular hair cells, (2) the mRNA expression of both the 9 and 10 subunits occurs earlier in the vestibular system than in the cochlea, (3) the mRNA expression of both subunits is required for the assembled receptor complexes, and (4) the presumptive assembled receptor, at least in the cochlea, is associated with synapse formation and the onset of function.
Oxidative stress and inflammation as the pathological components of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been well understood. Among a diversity of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family members, JNK and p38 MAPK subfamilies are relevant to the response of environmental stress, inflammatory stimuli, or other insults. Recent studies have demonstrated that epigenetic mechanisms may play a pivotal role in AD pathogenesis and development. In the present study, we have investigated epigenetic mechanisms such as DNA methylation and histone acetylation involved in the activation of stress-related signaling pathways for amyloid- (A) production. Human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells were treated by anisomycin, an activator of stress-related MAPKs (JNK and p38 MAPK). A significant increase of intracellular A level in anisomycin-treated SH-SY5Y cells was observed. The expression of amyloid- precursor protein (APP), -site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), and presenilin 1 (PS1) was upregulated by demethylation in three gene promoters associated with the reduction of methyltransferases (DNMTs). Meanwhile, an enhanced level of global histone H3 acetylation accompanied with upregulation of histone acetyltransferases p300/CREB-binding protein (CBP) and downregulation of histone deacetylases (HDACs) was also observed. These findings indicated that the activation of stress-related signaling pathways could result in the increased transcription of APP, BACE1, and PS1 genes through DNMT-dependent hypomethylation and histone H3 hyperacetylation, thus leading to A overproduction. Moreover, our findings provided a novel insight into epigenetic mechanisms by which oxidative stress contributes to the pathogenesis of AD.
Our previous studies show that insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) can either protect against or increase lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced damage in the developing brain, depending on the dose, when it is co-administered with LPS through intracerebral injection. To further explore effects of IGF-1 on central inflammation associated brain injury, IGF-1 was administered through intranasal infusion in the current study. Postnatal day 5 (P5) rats were exposed to LPS at a dose of 1 g/g body weight or sterile saline through intracerebral injection. Recombinant human insulin-like growth factor-1 (rhIGF-1) at a dose of 50 g/pup or vehicle was administered intranasally 1 or 2 h after the LPS injection. Neonatal LPS exposure resulted in oligodendrocyte (OL) and white matter injury in the P6 or P21 rat brain. The damages include dilatation of lateral ventricles, pyknotic cell death, loss of OL progenitor cells and mature OLs in the cingulum area, and impairment of myelination at the corpus callosum area. Neurological dysfunctions were observed in juvenile rats with neonatal LPS exposure. Intranasal IGF-1 treatment at either 1 or 2 h after LPS exposure significantly attenuated LPS-induced brain injury and improved some behavioral deficits. Intranasal IGF-1 treatment also reduced infiltration of polymorphonuclear (PMN) leukocytes and activation of microglia in the rat brain 24 h after LPS exposure, but it did not prevent the elevation in concentrations of interleukin-1 (IL-1) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) in the LPS-exposed rat brain during the first 24 h. This is an indication that direct anti-inflammation might not be the primary mechanism for the protection of IGF-1, and other mechanisms, such as anti-apoptotic effects, are likely involved in its protective effects.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a risk factor for the development of epilepsy, which can occur months to years after the insult. The hippocampus is particularly vulnerable to the pathophysiological effects of TBI. Here, we determined whether there are long-term changes in inhibition in the dentate gyrus that could contribute to the progressive susceptibility to seizures after TBI. We used severe lateral-fluid percussion brain injury to induce TBI in rats. In this model, spontaneous seizure activity, which involves the hippocampus, appears after a long latent period, resembling the human condition. We demonstrate that synaptic GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition is profoundly reduced in ipsilateral dentate granule cells 1 month after TBI. Moreover, synaptic inhibition decreases over time, and by 6 months after TBI, it is also significantly decreased contralaterally. Progressive loss of synaptic inhibition is paralleled by a decline in the number of parvalbumin-positive interneurons, but, in contrast to status epilepticus models, GABA(A) receptor subunit expression is largely unaltered. At both time points, the magnitude of tonic GABA(A) receptor-mediated currents after TBI is maintained, indicating a preservation of the inhibitory constraint of granule cells through tonic inhibition. Our results extend the time window during which strategies to target epileptogenesis may be effective.
Hippocampal theta wave can be induced by running and is linked to cognitive functions. The initiation and maintenance of hippocampal theta during a complete course of running, however, is not well understood. Using a treadmill exercise model, this study wirelessly recorded the hippocampal electroencephalogram, nuchal electromyogram, electrocardiogram, and three-dimensional accelerations of 15 male young rats. Although the speed of the treadmill was constant during the entire 30-min running course, the frequency (Frq) and amplitude (Amp) of hippocampal theta changed dynamically. During the first 24 s (phase I), the Frq, Amp, electromyogram amplitude (EMG), heart rate (HR), and physical activity (PA) all increased. The changes in the Frq, EMG, and PA were among the fastest and the change in the HR was the slowest. After 24 s (phase II), the Frq declined to near baseline but the Amp remained persistently high. The slope of the Frq, Amp, and HR over time during phase I was different to that during phase II. During phase II, the Frq and Amp were significantly correlated with the PA and EMG. We conclude that treadmill running can be classified into two phases based on hippocampal functioning, and hippocampal theta varies with exercise effort during the treadmill running.
Thiazolidinedione (TZD) class of peroxisome proliferator receptor gamma (PPAR-) agonists display neuroprotective effects in experimental Parkinson's disease (PD) models. Neurons and microglia express PPAR-, therefore both of them are potential targets for neuroprotection, although the role of each cell type is not clear. Moreover, receptor-dependent as well as receptor-independent mechanisms have been involved. This study further investigated mechanisms of TZD-mediated neuroprotection in PD. We investigated the rosiglitazone effect in the progressive MPTP/probenecid (MPTPp) model of PD. C57BL/6J mice received MPTP (25 mg/kg) plus probenecid (100 mg/kg) twice per week for 5 weeks. Rosiglitazone (10 mg/kg) was given daily until sacrifice, starting on the fourth week of MPTPp treatment, in presence of an ongoing neurodegeneration with microgliosis. Changes in PPAR- levels were measured by immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons and CD11b-positive microglia of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). Chronic MPTPp treatment induced a PPAR- overexpression in both TH-positive neurons and microglia (139.9% and 121.7% over vehicle, respectively). Rosiglitazone administration to MPTPp-treated mice, reverted PPAR- overexpression in microglia without affecting TH-positive neurons. Thereafter, changes in CD11b and tumor necrosis factor  (TNF-) immunoreactivity in microglia were evaluated in the SNc. MPTPp progressively increased CD11b immunoreactivity, conferring to microglia a highly activated morphology. Moreover, TNF- levels were increased (457.38% over vehicle) after MPTPp. Rosiglitazone administration counteracted the increase in CD11b immunoreactivity caused by MPTPp. Moreover, rosiglitazone reverted TNF- expression to control levels. Nigrostriatal degeneration was assessed by high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) measurement of striatal dopamine, and counting of TH-positive neurons in the SNc. MPTPp treatment caused a severe decline of striatal dopamine and a partial degeneration of the SNc. Rosiglitazone arrested the degenerative process in both areas. Results suggest that PPAR- expression in microglia and TNF- production by these cells are crucial changes by which rosiglitazone exerts neuroprotection in PD.
A goal of our studies is to develop a potential therapeutic for Parkinson's disease (PD) by a human glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (hGDNF) expression plasmid administered to the rat striatum as a compacted DNA nanoparticle (DNP) and which will generate long-term hGDNF expression at biologically active levels. In the present study, we used a DNA plasmid encoding for hGDNF and a polyubiquitin C (UbC) promoter that was previously shown to have activity in both neurons and glia, but primarily in glia. A two-fold improvement was observed at the highest plasmid dose when using hGDNF DNA incorporating sequences found in RNA splice variant 1 compared with splice variant 2; of note, the splice variant 2 sequence is used in most preclinical studies. This optimized expression cassette design includes flanking scaffold matrix attachment elements (S/MARs) as well as a CpG-depleted prokaryotic domain and, where possible, eukaryotic elements. Stable long-term GDNF activity at levels 300-400% higher than baseline was observed following a single intracerebral injection. In a previous study, DNP plasmids encoding for reporter genes had been successful in generating long-term reporter transgene activity in the striatum (&gt;365 days) and in this study produced sustained GDNF activity at the longest assessed time point (6 months).
Disorders such as depression and anxiety exhibit strong sex differences in their prevalence and incidence, with women also differing from men in their response to antidepressants. Furthermore, receptors for corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRHR1) and arginine vasopressin receptor subtype 1b (AVPR1b) are known to contribute to the regulation of mood and anxiety. In the present study, we compared the anxiety profile and CRHR1 and AVPR1b expression levels in control Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats and rats of the SD-derived Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL), a genetic model of depression. Additionally, given the apparent sex differences in the therapeutic efficacy of antidepressants and because antidepressants are commonly used to treat comorbid anxiety and depressive symptoms, we assessed whether the anxiolytic effects of an antidepressant occur in a sex-dependent manner. Male and female FSL rats were treated with citalopram 10 mg/kg once daily for 14 days and were then tested in the open field and the elevated plus maze paradigms. Upon completion of the behavioural analysis, AVPR1b and CRHR1 expression levels were monitored in the hypothalamus and the prefrontal cortex (PFC) using Western blotting. According to our results, male FSL rats were more anxious than control SD rats, a difference abolished by citalopram treatment. Baseline anxiety levels were similar in female FSL and SD rats, and citalopram further reduced anxiety in female FSL rats. Importantly, whereas citalopram altered AVPR1b expression in the hypothalamus of male FSL rats, its actions on this parameter were restricted to the PFC in female FSL rats. In both sexes of FSL rats, citalopram did not alter CRHR1 expression in either the hypothalamus or PFC. Our results demonstrate that antidepressant treatment reduces anxiety levels in FSL rats of both sexes: the magnitude of treatment effect was related to the starting baseline level of anxiety and the antidepressant elicited sexually differentiated neurobiological responses in specific brain regions.
It is well established that physical exercise can enhance hippocampal-dependent forms of learning and memory in laboratory animals, commensurate with increases in hippocampal neural plasticity (brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF] mRNA/protein, neurogenesis, long-term potentiation [LTP]). However, very little is known about the effects of exercise on other, non-spatial forms of learning and memory. In addition, there has been little investigation of the duration of the effects of exercise on behavior or plasticity. Likewise, few studies have compared the effects of exercising during adulthood versus adolescence. This is particularly important since exercise may capitalize on the peak of neural plasticity observed during adolescence, resulting in a different pattern of behavioral and neurobiological effects. The present study addressed these gaps in the literature by comparing the effects of 4 weeks of voluntary exercise (wheel running) during adulthood or adolescence on novel object recognition and BDNF levels in the perirhinal cortex (PER) and hippocampus (HP). Exercising during adulthood improved object recognition memory when rats were tested immediately after 4 weeks of exercise, an effect that was accompanied by increased BDNF levels in PER and HP. When rats were tested again 2 weeks after exercise ended, the effects of exercise on recognition memory and BDNF levels were no longer present. Exercising during adolescence had a very different pattern of effects. First, both exercising and non-exercising rats could discriminate between novel and familiar objects immediately after the exercise regimen ended; furthermore there was no group difference in BDNF levels. Two or four weeks later, however, rats that had previously exercised as adolescents could still discriminate between novel and familiar objects, while non-exercising rats could not. Moreover, the formerly exercising rats exhibited higher levels of BDNF in PER compared to HP, while the reverse was true in the non-exercising rats. These findings reveal a novel interaction between exercise, development, and medial temporal lobe memory systems.
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) has been shown to cause secondary cell loss in experimental models of brain injury and in patients, and blocking of CSD is a potential neuroprotective strategy. Here we tested the hypothesis that gap junctions affect CSD under physiological conditions as well as infarct development in a rat two-vein occlusion model suited to study pathophysiology of the penumbra (n = 71). We applied the gap junction blocker carbenoxolone (CBX) or saline intra-ventricularly. Interestingly, CBX temporarily increased systemic blood pressure and cortical blood flow (41% and 53%, 15 min after 250 g CBX). We induced CSD with cortical microinjection of potassium chloride (KCl), counted how many spontaneous CSDs after CSD induction were elicited and measured the propagation velocity. After 250 g CBX administration, significant 37.5  6.5 additional CSDs were seen. CSD velocity increased significantly after 50 g and 250 g CBX. Occlusion of two adjacent cortical veins using Rose Bengal dye and fiberoptic illumination followed by 250 g CBX or saline showed a significant more than doubling of infarct volumes 7 days after CBX. The current experiments provide evidence that CBX can accelerate the initiation and propagation of CSD suggesting opening of gap junctions is not required for CSD propagation. Blocking gap junctions worsens outcome from focal cerebral ischemia. Hence, measures intended to improve spatial buffering via astroglial gap junctions could have therapeutic potential in disease processes involving CSD.
The enzyme cytochrome c oxidase is a mitochondrial protein complex that plays a crucial role in oxidative metabolism. In the present study we show that amounts of two of its protein subunits (cytochrome c oxidase subunit I [CO-I] and II [CO-II]) are influenced by both learning-independent and learning-dependent factors. Converging evidence has consistently implicated the left intermediate medial mesopallium (IMM) in the chick brain as a memory store for the learning process of visual imprinting. This form of learning proceeds very shortly after chicks have been hatched. In the left IMM, but not in three other brain regions studied, amounts of CO-I and CO-II co-varied: the correlation between them was highly significant. This relationship did not depend on learning. However, learning influenced the amounts of both proteins, but did so only in the left IMM. In this region, amounts of each protein increased with the strength of learning. These findings raise the possibility that the molecular mechanisms involved in the coordinated assembly of cytochrome c oxidase are precociously developed in the left IMM compared to the other regions studied. This precocious development may enable the region to respond efficiently to the oxidative demands made by the changes in synaptic connectivity that underlie memory formation and would allow the left IMM to function as a storage site within hours after hatching.
The available data on the innervation of the thoracolumbar fascia (TLF) are inconsistent and partly contradictory. Therefore, the role of the fascia as a potential source of pain in the low back is difficult to assess. In the present study, a quantitative evaluation of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P (SP)-containing free nerve endings was performed in the rat TLF. A preliminary non-quantitative evaluation was also performed in specimens of the human TLF. The data show that the TLF is a densely innervated tissue with marked differences in the distribution of the nerve endings over the fascial layers. In the rat, we distinguished three layers: (1) Outer layer (transversely oriented collagen fibers adjacent to the subcutaneous tissue), (2) middle layer (massive collagen fiber bundles oriented obliquely to the animal's long axis), and (3) inner layer (loose connective tissue covering the paraspinal muscles). The subcutaneous tissue and the outer layer showed a particularly dense innervation with sensory fibers. SP-positive free nerve endings-which are assumed to be nociceptive-were exclusively found in these layers. Because of its dense sensory innervation, including presumably nociceptive fibers, the TLF may play an important role in low back pain.
Acute hypoxia elicits a biphasic respiratory response characterized in the newborn by a transient hyperventilation followed by a severe decrease in respiratory drive known as hypoxic respiratory depression. Medullary O(2) chemosensitivity is known to contribute to respiratory depression induced by hypoxia, although precise involvement of cell populations remains to be determined. Having a thorough knowledge of these populations is of relevance because perturbations in the respiratory response to hypoxia may participate in respiratory diseases in newborns. We aimed to analyze the hypoxic response of ponto-medullary cell populations of kreisler mutant mice. These mice have defects in a gene expressed in two rhombomeres encompassing a part of the medulla oblongata implicated in hypoxic respiratory depression. Central responses to hypoxia were analyzed in newborn mice by measuring respiratory rhythm in ex vivo caudal pons-medullary-spinal cord preparations and c-fos expression in wild-type and kreisler mutants. The homozygous kreisler mutation, which eliminates most of rhombomere 5 and mis-specifies rhombomere 6, abolished (1) an early decrease in respiratory frequency within 10 min of hypoxia and (2) an intrinsic hypoxic activation, which is characterized by an increase in c-fos expression in the region of the ventral medullary surface encompassing the retrotrapezoid nucleus/parafacial respiratory group expressing Phox2b. This increase in c-fos expression persisted in wild-type Phox2b-negative and Phox2b-positive cells after blockade of synaptic transmission and rhythmogenesis by a low [Ca(2+)](0). Another central response was retained in homozygous kreisler mutant mice; it was distinguished by (1) a delayed (10-30 min) depression of respiratory frequency and (2) a downregulation of c-fos expression in the ventrolateral reticular nucleus of the medulla, the nucleus of the solitary tract, and the area of the A5 region. Thus, two types of ponto-medullary cell groups, with distinct anatomical locations, participate in central hypoxic respiratory depression in newborns.
We have previously demonstrated that glia maturation factor (GMF), a brain-specific protein, isolated, sequenced, and cloned in our laboratory, is a prominent mediator of inflammation in the CNS leading to the death of neurons. In the present study, we demonstrate, for the first time, a significant upregulation of the GMF protein in various regions of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains compared with age-matched non-demented (ND) control brains. We analyzed AD and ND brain samples by quantitative enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using a combination of highly specific monoclonal and polyclonal anti-GMF antibodies developed and characterized in our laboratory. For the comparison between ND controls and AD cases, we examined brain tissue from 12 ad cases (ages ranging from 78-92 years) and eight age-matched ND controls (ages ranging from 76-88 years). We observed a significant increase in GMF concentration in entorhinal cortex, parietal cortex, frontal cortex, occipital cortex, perirhinal cortex, and temporal cortex of AD patients. Our results clearly demonstrate that the GMF protein levels are significantly higher in all AD-affected brain regions than in ND controls. The immunohistochemistry analysis revealed co-localization of GMF with amyloid plaques (AP) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in AD brains. Our results imply that under conditions of neurodegeneration the expression of GMF is significantly upregulated.
The cortical representation of heading perception derives from several functional processes distributed across many cortical areas. The aim of the present study was to assess if the optic flow motion directions, expansion and contraction, differently modulate the firing activity of area PEc neurons. We determined the influence of the eye position and/or the spatial position of the focus of expansion (FOE) on this activity. Single neuron activity during radial optic flow stimulation was recorded in three behaving monkeys. The retinal FOE position and the spatial eye position were examined in order to study eye position's influence upon the directional selectivity for the radial stimuli. We observed that the neurons able to discriminate the retinotopic FOE position are differently modulated by expansion and contraction. One class of neurons exhibited a different preferred FOE position during expansion and contraction. A second class showed the same preferred position with similar firing activity in the two stimuli. A third class showed the same preferred position but different firing activity. Eye position affected the directional selectivity of most PEc cells. The main result of this study is that there is a continuum in cell modulation by optic flow direction, and it can be modified by the angle of gaze with respect to the FOE. These results shed light on potential cellular integrative mechanisms of area PEc in heading perception.
Two-pore domain K(+) (K(2P)) channels underlie leak or background potassium conductances in many cells. The Trek subfamily of K(2P) channels, which includes Trek1/Kcnk2 and Trek2/Kcnk10 and has been implicated in depression, nociception, and cognition, exhibits complex regulation and can modulate cell excitability in response to a wide array of stimuli. While alternative translation initiation and alternative splicing contribute to the structural and functional diversity of Trek1, the impact of post-transcriptional modifications on the expression and function of Trek2 is unclear. Here, we characterized two novel splice isoforms of the mouse Trek2 gene. One variant is a truncated form of Trek2 that possesses two transmembrane segments and one pore domain (Trek2-1p), while the other (Trek2b) differs from two known mouse Trek2 isoforms (Trek2a and Trek2c) at the extreme amino terminus. Both Trek2-1p and Trek2b, and Trek2a and Trek2c, showed prominent expression in the mouse CNS. Expression patterns of the Trek2 variants within the CNS were largely overlapping, though some isoform-specific differences were noted. Heterologous expression of Trek2-1p yielded no novel whole-cell currents in transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. In contrast, expression of Trek2b correlated with robust K(+) currents that were ~fivefold larger than currents measured in cells expressing Trek2a or Trek2c, a difference mirrored by significantly higher levels of Trek2b found at the plasma membrane. This study provides new insights into the molecular diversity of Trek channels and suggests a potential role for the Trek2 amino terminus in channel trafficking and/or stability.
Aberrant, lesion-induced neuroplastic changes in the auditory pathway are believed to give rise to the phantom sound of tinnitus. Noise-induced cochlear damage can induce extensive fiber growth and synaptogenesis in the cochlear nucleus, but it is currently unclear if these changes are linked to tinnitus. To address this issue, we unilaterally exposed nine rats to narrow-band noise centered at 12 kHz at 126 dB sound pressure level (SPL) for 2 h and sacrificed them 10 weeks later for evaluation of synaptic plasticity (growth-associated protein 43 [GAP-43] expression) in the cochlear nucleus. Noise-exposed rats along with three age-matched controls were screened for tinnitus-like behavior with gap prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle (GPIAS) before, 1-10 days after, and 8-10 weeks after the noise exposure. All nine noise-exposed rats showed similar patterns of severe hair cell loss at high- and mid-frequency regions in the exposed ear. Eight of the nine showed strong up-regulation of GAP-43 in auditory nerve fibers and pronounced shrinkage of the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) on the noise-exposed side, and strong up-regulation of GAP-43 in the medial ventral VCN, but not in the lateral VCN or the dorsal cochlear nucleus. GAP-43 up-regulation in VCN was significantly greater in Noise-No-Tinnitus rats than in Noise-Tinnitus rats. One Noise-No-Tinnitus rat showed no up-regulation of GAP-43 in auditory nerve fibers and only little VCN shrinkage, suggesting that auditory nerve degeneration plays a role in tinnitus generation. Our results suggest that noise-induced tinnitus is suppressed by strong up-regulation of GAP-43 in the medial VCN. GAP-43 up-regulation most likely originates from medial olivocochlear neurons. Their increased excitatory input on inhibitory neurons in VCN may possibly reduce central hyperactivity and tinnitus.
Recent evidence suggests that exercise improves functional outcome in animal models of cerebral ischemia. Since netrin-1 and its receptors, deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC) and uncoordinated gene 5B (Unc5B), act as important regulators in neural and vascular activities, we sought to determine whether netrin-1 and DCC and Unc5B are involved in the neuroprotective effects of exercise on rats with induced cerebral ischemia. A total of 108 rats were randomly distributed into three groups: sham-operated group (n = 12), middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) group (n = 48), MCAO+treadmill exercise group (n = 48). Behavioral testing indicated that treadmill exercise could significantly improve neurologic deficits of rats with cerebral ischemia at day 14 and 28 after MCAO (n = 12, P&lt;0.05 and P&lt;0.01), but there was no significant difference at day 4 and 7. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and Western blot analysis revealed that treadmill exercise enhanced netrin-1 and DCC expression, while it suppressed Unc5B expression in rat peri-ischemic brain area, especially at day 14 and 28 after MCAO (n = 4, P&lt;0.05 or P&lt;0.01). Immunofluorescence analysis showed that in the peri-ischemic area, netrin-1 was expressed in neuronal perikarya, DCC, however, was expressed in neural processes and peri-vascular astrocytes, while Unc5B was expressed mostly in neuronal perikarya and some processes. These results suggest that netrin-1 and its receptors DCC and Unc5B may engage in exercise-induced neural circuit remodeling in the peri-ischemic area, and exercise may promote survival of neurons in this area by regulating netrin-1-Unc5B signaling. Additionally, netrin-1 may also play a role in brain-blood barrier via DCC-immunoreactive peri-vascular astrocytes. In conclusion, we demonstrate that treadmill exercise has beneficial effects that may be attributed, at least in part, to the involvement of netrin-1 and its receptors DCC and Unc5B in the neuronal and vascular activities in brain-ischemic rats.
Several lines of clinical evidence support the idea that fragile X syndrome (FXS) may involve a dysregulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function [Wisbeck et al. (2000) J Dev Behav Pediatr 21:278-282; Hessl et al. (2002) Psychoneuroendocrinology 27:855-872]. We had tested this idea in a mouse model of FXS (Fmr1 KO) and found that the hormonal response to acute stress was similar to that of wild-type (WT) mice [Qin and Smith (2008) Psychoneuroendocrinology 33:883-889]. We report here responses to chronic stress (CS) in Fmr1 KO mice. Following restraint for 120 min/d, 10 consecutive days, we assessed dendrite and spine morphology in basolateral amygdala (BLA). We also monitored behavior in an elevated plus maze (EPM) and the hormonal response to this novel spatial environment. After CS, mice of both genotypes underwent adrenal hypertrophy, but effects were greater in WT mice. Behavior in the EPM indicated that only WT mice had the expected increase in anxiety following CS. Serum corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) levels were both increased following the spatial novelty of EPM, and there were no differences between genotypes in the hormonal responses. BLA dendritic branching increased proximal to the soma in WT, but in Fmr1 KO mice branching was unaffected close to the soma and slightly decreased at one point distal to the soma. Similarly, spine density on apical and basal dendrites increased in WT but decreased in Fmr1 KO mice. Spine length on apical and basal dendrites increased in WT but was unaffected in Fmr1 KO mice. These differences in behavioral response and effects on neuron morphology in BLA suggest a diminished adaptive response of Fmr1 KO mice.
The present study investigated whether chronic exercise suppressed hippocampal neuronal death due to repeated stress followed by i.c.v. kainic acid (KA) injection, and whether cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPKs), and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) activation contributed to the neuroprotective effect in this experimental paradigm. To achieve the objective, mice were subjected to treadmill running for 8 weeks (19 m/min, 1 h/d, 5 d/wk) followed by seven consecutive days of repeated restraint stress (2 h/d), and then i.c.v. injection of KA (0.05 g/5 L). Hippocampal neuronal death was assessed using Nissl staining, and protein levels were measured using Western blot and immunohistochemical analysis. Hippocampal neuronal loss in mice subjected to restraint stress and KA injection was exacerbated compared with KA injection alone, which was reversed in the hippocampal CA3 region with prior chronic exercise. To further identify the neuroprotective effects of chronic exercise administration on hippocampal insults by repeated stress, levels of stress-related factors were measured. First, there was no significant difference in serum corticosterone and glucocorticoid (Gc) receptor levels in mice with restraint alone and restraint combined with prior chronic exercise. Second, malondialdehyde (MDA) and nitrite levels were significantly enhanced in restrained mice and were revered in restraint with chronic exercise. However, pCREB levels in the hippocampus in restraint mice with chronic exercise were profoundly increased compared with levels in restraint-alone mice. Among the MAPKs, pERK1/2 levels in restraint mice with chronic exercise were significantly higher than levels in mice with restraint alone. Furthermore, pCaMKII levels in restraint mice with chronic exercise were markedly elevated compared with levels in mice after restraint alone. Prior chronic exercise suppressed KA-induced hippocampal neuronal death in hippocampal CA3 region in restrained mice via declined ROS levels, which was lower MDA and nitrite levels, and activation of CREB, which was mediated by ERK1/2 and CaMKII, suggesting that chronic exercise exerts a protective effect on excitatory neurodegenerative disorders including epileptic seizure.
Fast, temporally-precise, and consistent synaptic transmission is required to encode features of acoustic stimuli. Neurons of nucleus magnocellularis (NM) in the auditory brain stem of the chick possess numerous adaptations to optimize the coding of temporal information. One potential problem for the system is the depression of synaptic transmission during a prolonged stimulus. The present study tested the hypothesis that cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) signaling may limit synaptic depression at the auditory nerve-NM synapse. In situ hybridization was used to confirm that CB1 mRNA is expressed in the cochlear ganglion; immunohistochemistry was used to confirm the presence of CB1 protein in NM. These findings are consistent with the common presynaptic locus of CB1 in the brain. Rate-dependent synaptic depression was then examined in a brain slice preparation before and after administration of WIN 55,212-2 (WIN), a potent CB1 agonist. WIN decreased the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and also reduced depression across a train of stimuli. The effect was most obvious late in the pulse train and during high rates of stimulation. This CB1-mediated influence could allow for lower, but more consistent activation of NM neurons, which could be of importance for optimizing the coding of prolonged, temporally-locked acoustic stimuli.
Previous studies show that most short thoracic propriospinal (TPS; T5-T7) and long descending propriospinal tract (LDPT; C4-C6) neurons are lost following low-thoracic spinal cord contusion injury (cSCI), as assessed by retrograde labeling with fluorogold (FG). Gene microarray and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end (TUNEL)/caspase-3 immunolabeling indicate that post-axotomy cell death may be responsible for the observed decrease in number of labeled TPS neurons post cSCI. Yet, no indications of post-axotomy cell death are evident within LDPT neurons following the same injury. The present experiments were devised to understand this difference. We assessed the number and size of LDPT and TPS neurons at different time points, retrogradely labeling these neurons with FG prior to delivering a moderate low-thoracic cSCI or after they were axotomized by a complete low-thoracic spinal transection. Counts of FG-filled TPS and LDPT cells indicate a large loss of both neuronal populations 2 weeks post cSCI. Propriospinal neurons in other animals were retrogradely labeled with dextran tetramethyl rhodamine prior to cSCI and tissue was processed for detection of TUNEL- or caspase-3-positive profiles at chronic times post injury. Our overall findings confirm that cell death post injury is the major factor responsible for the loss of TPS neurons during the acute period post cSCI, and that little post-axotomy cell death occurs in LDPT neurons during the first 2 months after the same injury. After chronic axotomy retrograde transport is impaired in LDPT neurons, but can be reinitiated by re-axotomy. Our results also indicate that FG is metabolized/lost from retrogradely labeled neurons at increasing survival times, and that this process appears to be accelerated by injury.
The creatine-phosphocreatine shuttle is essential for the maintenance of cellular ATP, particularly under hypoxic conditions when respiration may become anaerobic. Using a model of intrapartum hypoxia in the precocial spiny mouse (Acomys cahirinus), the present study assessed the potential for maternal creatine supplementation during pregnancy to protect the developing brain from the effects of birth hypoxia. On day 38 of gestation (term is 39 days), the pregnant uterus was isolated and placed in a saline bath for 7.5 min, inducing global hypoxia. The pups were then removed, resuscitated, and cross-fostered to a nursing dam. Control offspring were delivered by caesarean section and recovered immediately after release from the uterus. At 24 h after birth hypoxia, the brains of offspring from dams fed a normal diet showed significant increases in lipid peroxidation as measured by the amount of malondialdehyde. In the cortical subplate, thalamus and piriform cortex there were significant increases in cellular expression of the pro-apoptotic protein BAX, cytoplasmic cytochrome c and caspase-3. When pregnant dams were fed the creatine supplemented diet, the increase in malondialdehyde, BAX, cytochrome c and caspase 3 were almost completely prevented, such that they were not different from control (caesarean-delivered) neonates. This study provides evidence that the neuroprotective capacity of creatine in the hypoxic perinatal brain involves abrogation of lipid peroxidation and apoptosis, possibly through the maintenance of mitochondrial function. Further investigation into these mechanisms of protection, and the long-term development and behavioural outcomes of such neonates is warranted.
Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) hold promise as a potential treatment for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). To determine the impact of the donor's age on reprogramming, we generated iPSCs from muscle-derived fibroblasts (MuFs) of mdx mice aged 6 weeks, 6 months, and 14 months. MuFs from 14-month-old mdx mice showed lower proliferative activity and lower reprogramming efficiency, compared with those from younger mdx mice. Furthermore, iPSCs derived from 14-month-old mdx mice (14m-MuF-iPSCs) gradually lost Nanog expression, and regressed in conventional ES medium during passages. Interestingly, inhibition of TGF- signaling and BMP signaling stabilized Nanog expression and promoted self-renewal of 14m-MuF-iPSCs. Finally, rescued mdx-derived iPSCs efficiently differentiated into the skeletal muscle lineage.

During the last two decades, neuroscience research has proliferated examining brain mechanisms that explain why some people are compelled to pursue drugs and alcohol. The findings suggest that addiction is independent of pleasure, and that drug seeking can be triggered outside of conscious awareness (Berridge, Robinson, &amp; Aldridge, 2009; Goldstein et al., 2009; Kalivas, Volkow, &amp; Seamans, 2005). The observations and conclusions from this research can be used to advantage in treating addiction. The use of social psychological principles, in the context of motivational interviewing, offers a platform for taking advantage of these new insights. After a brief sketch of the latest understanding of the physiological forces operating in addiction, the author examines those ways to interact with substance dependent clients that promote change without provoking resistance in this article. Action plans are later described that can supplant automatic, addiction-induced behaviors (Gollwitzer, Fujita, &amp; Oettingen, 2004). Mechanisms such as building coping skills are discussed, that help in maintaining new behaviors. Some of these mechanisms are efficacious because they bolster the brain's self-regulatory capacity (Baumeister, Vohs, &amp; Tice, 2007; Littrell, 2010). Thus, for every step in the change process, from resistance to change maintenance, validated guidelines for altering the outcome from addiction will be provided.
As opposed to visual imaging, biosonar imaging of spatial object properties represents a challenge for the auditory system because its sensory epithelium is not arranged along space axes. For echolocating bats, object width is encoded by the amplitude of its echo (echo intensity) but also by the naturally covarying spread of angles of incidence from which the echoes impinge on the bat's ears (sonar aperture). It is unclear whether bats use the echo intensity and/or the sonar aperture to estimate an object's width. We addressed this question in a combined psychophysical and electrophysiological approach. In three virtual-object playback experiments, bats of the species Phyllostomus discolor had to discriminate simple reflections of their own echolocation calls differing in echo intensity, sonar aperture, or both. Discrimination performance for objects with physically correct covariation of sonar aperture and echo intensity (&quot;object width&quot;) did not differ from discrimination performances when only the sonar aperture was varied. Thus, the bats were able to detect changes in object width in the absence of intensity cues. The psychophysical results are reflected in the responses of a population of units in the auditory midbrain and cortex that responded strongest to echoes from objects with a specific sonar aperture, regardless of variations in echo intensity. Neurometric functions obtained from cortical units encoding the sonar aperture are sufficient to explain the behavioral performance of the bats. These current data show that the sonar aperture is a behaviorally relevant and reliably encoded cue for object size in bat sonar.
Microtubules (MTs) are capable of entering dendritic spines in mature hippocampal neurons through dynamic polymerization. Although these MT invasions are directly associated with neuronal activity, their function remains unknown. Here we demonstrate in mouse hippocampal neurons that MT entries into spines regulate the increase in postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95) protein after brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) treatment. Using multiwavelength total internal reflectance fluorescence microscopy, we show that BDNF prolonged the average MT dwell time in spines and that this effect was dependent on TrkB receptor activation. Further examination revealed that peaks of MT polymerization into spines corresponded to rapid PSD-95 increases in the spine head. Over time, spines targeted by MTs after BDNF application, but not before, showed a robust increase in PSD-95. Conversely, spines completely devoid of MT invasions showed no significant change in the level of PSD-95. Pharmacological inhibition of MT dynamics abolished the BDNF-induced increase in PSD-95. Together, these results support the hypothesis that the well known increase in PSD-95 within spines after BDNF treatment is dependent on MT invasions of dendritic spines. Thus, our study provides a direct link between dynamic MTs and the postsynaptic structure, and provides a functional role for MT invasion of dendritic spines.
When receiving unfair monetary offers from another person, the most common response is punishment. Existing literature on the Ultimatum Game indicates that individuals frequently refuse unfair offers even when this results in a loss for themselves. Here, we present behavioral and neurophysiological evidence demonstrating that friendship substantially modifies this response. When the proposer was a friend rather than an unknown person, unfair offers were less frequently rejected and the medial frontal negativity (MFN) typically associated with unfair offers was reversed to positive polarity. The underlying generators were located in inferior-mesial and right inferior- and medial-lateral frontal regions (BA10 and BA11). These findings highlight the fundamental role of the anterior prefrontal cortex in interpersonal economic interaction and, particularly, present new evidence on the effects of social distance on the MFN.
The proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1) is critical for normal hippocampus (HP)-dependent cognition, whereas high levels can disrupt memory and are implicated in neurodegeneration. However, the cellular source of IL-1 during learning has not been shown, and little is known about the risk factors leading to cytokine dysregulation within the HP. We have reported that neonatal bacterial infection in rats leads to marked HP-dependent memory deficits in adulthood. However, deficits are only observed if unmasked by a subsequent immune challenge [lipopolysaccharide (LPS)] around the time of learning. These data implicate a long-term change within the immune system that, upon activation with the &quot;second hit,&quot; LPS, acutely impacts the neural processes underlying memory. Indeed, inhibiting brain IL-1 before the LPS challenge prevents memory impairment in neonatally infected (NI) rats. We aimed to determine the cellular source of IL-1 during normal learning and thereby lend insight into the mechanism by which this cytokine is enduringly altered by early-life infection. We show for the first time that CD11b(+) enriched cells are the source of IL-1 during normal HP-dependent learning. CD11b(+) cells from NI rats are functionally sensitized within the adult HP and produce exaggerated IL-1 ex vivo compared with controls. However, an exaggerated IL-1 response in vivo requires LPS before learning. Moreover, preventing microglial activation during learning prevents memory impairment in NI rats, even following an LPS challenge. Thus, early-life events can significantly modulate normal learning-dependent cytokine activity within the HP, via a specific, enduring impact on brain microglial function.
The shape of action potentials invading presynaptic terminals, which can vary significantly from spike waveforms recorded at the soma, may critically influence the probability of synaptic neurotransmitter release. Revealing the conductances that determine spike shape in presynaptic boutons is important for understanding how changes in the electrochemical context in which a spike is generated, such as subthreshold depolarization spreading from the soma, can modulate synaptic strength. Utilizing recent improvements in the signal-to-noise ratio of voltage-sensitive dye imaging in mouse brain slices, we demonstrate that intracortical axon collaterals and en passant presynaptic terminals of layer 5 pyramidal cells exhibit a high density of Kv1 subunit-containing ion channels, which generate a slowly inactivating K(+) current critically important for spike repolarization in these compartments. Blockade of the current by low doses of 4-aminopyridine or -dendrotoxin dramatically slows the falling phase of action potentials in axon collaterals and presynaptic boutons. Furthermore, subthreshold depolarization of the soma broadened action potentials in collaterals bearing presynaptic boutons, an effect abolished by blocking Kv1 channels with -dendrotoxin. These results indicate that action potential-induced synaptic transmission may operate through a mix of analog-digital transmission owing to the properties of Kv1 channels in axon collaterals and presynaptic boutons.
The lateral nucleus (LA) is the input station of the amygdala for information about conditioned stimuli (CSs), whereas the medial sector of the central nucleus (CeM) is the output region that contributes most amygdala projections to brainstem fear effectors. However, there are no direct links between LA and CeM. As the main target of LA and with its strong projection to CeM, the basomedial amygdala (BM) constitutes a good candidate to bridge this gap. Consistent with this notion, it was reported that combined posttraining lesions of the basal nuclei [BM plus basolateral nucleus (BL)] abolish conditioned fear responses, whereas selective BL inactivation does not. Thus, we examined the relative contribution of BM and BL to conditioned fear using unit recordings and inactivation with muscimol microinfusions in rats. Approximately 30% of BM and BL neurons acquired robust responses to auditory CSs predicting footshocks. While most BL cells stopped firing at CS offset, BM responses typically outlasted the CS by  40 s, paralleling the persistence of conditioned fear after the CS. This observation suggests that BM neurons are not passive relays of rapidly adapting LA inputs about the CS. Surprisingly, independent inactivation of either BM or BL with muscimol did not cause a reduction of conditioned freezing even though an extinction recall deficit was seen the next day. In contrast, combined BL-BM inactivation did. Overall, there results support the notion that the basal nuclei are involved in conditioned fear expression and extinction but that there is functional redundancy between them.
Focal swelling or varicosity formation in dendrites and loss of dendritic spines are the earliest indications of glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. Although it is known that microtubule dynamics play a role in varicosity formation, very little is known about the proteins that directly impact microtubules during focal swelling and dendritic spine loss. Our laboratory has recently reported that the postsynaptic protein PSD-95 and its cytosolic interactor (cypin) regulate the patterning of dendrites in hippocampal neurons. Cypin promotes microtubule assembly, and PSD-95 disrupts microtubule organization. Thus, we hypothesized that cypin and PSD-95 may play a role in altering dendrite morphology and spine number in response to sublethal NMDA-induced excitotoxicity. Using an in vitro model of glutamate-induced toxicity in rat hippocampal cultures, we found that cypin overexpression or PSD-95 knockdown increases the percentage of neurons with varicosities and the number of varicosities along dendrites, decreases the size of varicosities after sublethal NMDA exposure, and protects neurons from NMDA-induced death. In contrast, cypin knockdown or PSD-95 overexpression results in opposite effects. We further show that cypin regulates the density of spines/filopodia: cypin overexpression decreases the number of protrusions per micrometer of dendrite while cypin knockdown results in an opposite effect. Cypin overexpression and PSD-95 knockdown attenuate NMDA-promoted decreases in protrusion density. Thus, we have identified a novel pathway by which the microtubule cytoskeleton is regulated during sublethal changes to dendrites.
Complex behaviors often require coordinated movements of dissimilar motor structures. The underlying neural mechanisms are poorly understood. We investigated cycle-by-cycle coordination of two dissimilar feeding structures in Aplysia californica: the external lips and the internal radula. During feeding, the lips open while the radula protracts. Lip and radula motoneurons are located in the cerebral and buccal ganglia, respectively, and radula motoneurons are controlled by a well characterized buccal central pattern generator (CPG). Here, we examined whether the three electrically coupled lip motoneurons C15/16/17 are controlled by the buccal CPG or by a previously postulated cerebral CPG. Two buccal-cerebral projection interneurons, B34 and B63, which are part of the buccal CPG and mediate radula protraction, monosynaptically excite C15/16/17. Recordings from the B34 axon in the cerebral ganglion demonstrate its direct electrical coupling with C15/16/17, eliminating the need for a cerebral CPG. Moreover, when the multifunctional buccal CPG generates multiple forms of motor programs due to the activation of two inputs, the command-like neuron CBI-2 and the esophageal nerve (EN), C15/16 exhibit activity patterns that are distinct from C17. These distinct activity patterns result from combined activity of B34 and B63 and their differential excitation of C15/16 versus C17. In more general terms, we identified neuronal mechanisms that allow a single CPG to coordinate the phasing and activity of remotely located motoneurons innervating distinct structures that participate in the production of different motor outputs. We also demonstrated that axodendritic electrical coupling by projection interneurons plays a pivotal role in coordinating activity of these remotely located neurons.
Perceptual learning is considered a manifestation of neural plasticity in the human brain. We investigated brain plasticity mechanisms in a learning task using noninvasive transcranial electrical stimulation (tES). We hypothesized that different types of tES would have varying actions on the nervous system, which would result in different efficacies of neural plasticity modulation. Thus, the principal goal of the present study was to verify the possibility of inducing differential plasticity effects using two tES approaches [i.e., direct current stimulation (tDCS) and random noise stimulation (tRNS)] during the execution of a visual perceptual learning task.
Neurological insults during development are associated with later impairments in learning and memory. Although remedial training can help restore cognitive function, the neural mechanisms of this recovery in memory systems are largely unknown. To examine this issue, we measured electrophysiological oscillatory activity in the hippocampus (both CA3 and CA1) and prefrontal cortex of adult rats that had experienced repeated seizures in the first weeks of life, while they were remedially trained on a delayed-nonmatch-to-sample memory task. Seizure-exposed rats showed initial difficulties learning the task but performed similarly to control rats after extra training. Whole-session analyses illustrated enhanced theta power in all three structures while seizure rats learned response tasks before the memory task. While performing the memory task, dynamic oscillation patterns revealed that prefrontal cortex theta power was increased among seizure-exposed rats. This enhancement appeared after the first memory-training steps using short delays and plateaued at the most difficult steps, which included both short and long delays. Further, seizure rats showed enhanced CA1-prefrontal cortex theta coherence in correct trials compared with incorrect trials when long delays were imposed, suggesting increased hippocampal-prefrontal cortex synchrony for the task in this group when memory demand was high. Seizure-exposed rats also showed heightened gamma power and coherence among all three structures during the trials. Our results demonstrate the first evidence of hippocampal-prefrontal enhancements following seizures in early development. Dynamic compensatory changes in this network and interconnected circuits may underpin cognitive rehabilitation following other neurological insults to higher cognitive systems.
Temporal restriction of feeding can entrain circadian behavioral and physiological rhythms in mammals. These changes in biological rhythms are postulated to be brought about by a putative food-entrainable oscillator (FEO) that is independent of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). However, the anatomical substrates and molecular machinery of FEO remain elusive. We report here that mice with a nervous system-specific deletion of Bmal1, an essential clock component, had a marked deficit in entrainment of locomotor activity by periodic feeding, accompanied by reduced food intake and subsequent loss of body weight. These mice exhibited a nearly normal light-entrainable activity rhythm driven by the SCN, because deletion of the Bmal1 gene in the SCN was only partial. These findings suggest that an SCN-independent FEO in the nervous system requires Bmal1 and plays a critical role in adaptation of circadian locomotor activity and food intake to periodic feeding.
A central question in Alzheimer's disease (AD) research is what role -amyloid peptide (A) plays in synaptic dysfunction. Synaptic activity increases A secretion, potentially inhibiting synapses, but also decreases intraneuronal A, protecting synapses. We now show that levels of secreted A fall with time in culture in neurons of AD-transgenic mice, but not wild-type mice. Moreover, the ability of synaptic activity to elevate secreted A and reduce intraneuronal A becomes impaired in AD-transgenic but not wild-type neurons with time in culture. We demonstrate that synaptic activity promotes an increase in the A-degrading protease neprilysin at the cell surface and a concomitant increase in colocalization with A42. Remarkably, AD-transgenic but not wild-type neurons show reduced levels of neprilysin with time in culture. This impaired ability to secrete A and reduce intraneuronal A has important implications for the pathogenesis and treatment of AD.
A wide range of computations performed by the nervous system involves a type of probabilistic inference known as marginalization. This computation comes up in seemingly unrelated tasks, including causal reasoning, odor recognition, motor control, visual tracking, coordinate transformations, visual search, decision making, and object recognition, to name just a few. The question we address here is: how could neural circuits implement such marginalizations? We show that when spike trains exhibit a particular type of statistics--associated with constant Fano factors and gain-invariant tuning curves, as is often reported in vivo--some of the more common marginalizations can be achieved with networks that implement a quadratic nonlinearity and divisive normalization, the latter being a type of nonlinear lateral inhibition that has been widely reported in neural circuits. Previous studies have implicated divisive normalization in contrast gain control and attentional modulation. Our results raise the possibility that it is involved in yet another, highly critical, computation: near optimal marginalization in a remarkably wide range of tasks.
The use of awake, fixating monkeys in neuroscience has allowed significant advances in understanding numerous brain functions. However, fixation is an active process, with the occurrence of incessant eye movements, including rapid ones called microsaccades. Even though microsaccades have been shown to be modulated by stimulus and cognitive processes in humans, it is not known to what extent these results are similar in monkeys or why they occur. Here, we analyzed the stimulus-, context-, and attention-related changes in microsaccades while monkeys performed a challenging visual attention task. The distributions of microsaccade times were highly stereotypical across thousands of trials in the task. Moreover, in epochs of the task in which animals anticipated the occurrence of brief stimulus probes, microsaccade frequency decreased to a rate of less than one movement per second even on long multisecond trials. These effects were explained by the observation that microsaccades occurring at the times of the brief probes were sometimes associated with reduced perceptual performance. Microsaccade directions also exhibited temporal modulations related to the attentional demands of the task, like earlier studies in humans, and were more likely to be directed toward an attended location on successfully performed trials than on unsuccessfully completed ones. Our results show that microsaccades in nonhuman primates are correlated with the allocation of stimulus-evoked and sustained covert attention. We hypothesize that involvement of the superior colliculus in microsaccade generation and attentional allocation contributes to these observations. More importantly, our results clarify the potential role of these eye movements in modifying behavior and neural activity.

Ischemic stroke remains a vexing public health problem. Although progress has been made in prevention and supportive care, efforts to protect the brain from ischemic cell death have failed. Thus, no new treatment has made it from bench to bedside since tissue plasminogen activator was introduced in 1996. The brain has a remarkable capacity for self-preservation, illustrated by the protective responses induced by ischemia, preconditioning and exercise. Here we describe the mechanisms underlying brain self-protection, with the goal of identifying features that could provide insight into stroke therapy. Unlike traditional therapeutic approaches based on counteracting selected pathways of the ischemic cascade, endogenous neuroprotection relies on coordinated neurovascular programs that support cerebral perfusion, mitigate the harmful effects of cerebral ischemia and promote tissue restoration. Learning how the brain triggers and implements these protective measures may advance our quest to treat stroke.
Brain development and function depend on the precise regulation of gene expression. However, our understanding of the complexity and dynamics of the transcriptome of the human brain is incomplete. Here we report the generation and analysis of exon-level transcriptome and associated genotyping data, representing males and females of different ethnicities, from multiple brain regions and neocortical areas of developing and adult post-mortem human brains. We found that 86 per cent of the genes analysed were expressed, and that 90 per cent of these were differentially regulated at the whole-transcript or exon level across brain regions and/or time. The majority of these spatio-temporal differences were detected before birth, with subsequent increases in the similarity among regional transcriptomes. The transcriptome is organized into distinct co-expression networks, and shows sex-biased gene expression and exon usage. We also profiled trajectories of genes associated with neurobiological categories and diseases, and identified associations between single nucleotide polymorphisms and gene expression. This study provides a comprehensive data set on the human brain transcriptome and insights into the transcriptional foundations of human neurodevelopment.
The fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) can be activated through direct interactions with various fibroblast growth factors or through a number of cell adhesion molecules, including the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM). We produced recombinant proteins comprising the ligand-binding immunoglobulin-like modules 2 and 3 of FGFR1b, FGFR1c, FGFR2b, FGFR2c, FGFR3b, FGFR3c, and FGFR4, and found that all FGFR isoforms, except for FGFR4, interacted with NCAM. The binding affinity of NCAM-FGFR interactions was considerably higher for splice variant 'b' than for splice variant 'c'. We suggest that the expression pattern of various FGFR isoforms determines the cell context-specific effects of NCAM signaling through FGFR.

Optogenetics - a new methodology that involves expression of light-responsive proteins in specific groups of neurons, which can then be activated with light - has only been around for six years, but some researchers are already using it to target big psychiatric questions. Michael Gross reports.
Neurovascular coupling is a process through which neuronal activity leads to local increases in blood flow in the central nervous system. In brain slices, 100% O(2) has been shown to alter neurovascular coupling, suppressing activity-dependent vasodilation. However, in vivo, hyperoxia reportedly has no effect on blood flow. Resolving these conflicting findings is important, given that hyperoxia is often used in the clinic in the treatment of both adults and neonates, and a reduction in neurovascular coupling could deprive active neurons of adequate nutrients. Here we address this issue by examining neurovascular coupling in both ex vivo and in vivo rat retina preparations. In the ex vivo retina, 100% O(2) reduced light-evoked arteriole vasodilations by 3.9-fold and increased vasoconstrictions by 2.6-fold. In vivo, however, hyperoxia had no effect on light-evoked arteriole dilations or blood velocity. Oxygen electrode measurements showed that 100% O(2) raised pO(2) in the ex vivo retina from 34 to 548 mm Hg, whereas hyperoxia has been reported to increase retinal pO(2) in vivo to only ~53 mm Hg [Yu DY, Cringle SJ, Alder VA, Su EN (1994) Am J Physiol 267:H2498-H2507]. Replicating the hyperoxic in vivo pO(2) of 53 mm Hg in the ex vivo retina did not alter vasomotor responses, indicating that although O(2) can modulate neurovascular coupling when raised sufficiently high, the hyperoxia-induced rise in retinal pO(2) in vivo is not sufficient to produce a modulatory effect. Our findings demonstrate that hyperoxia does not alter neurovascular coupling in vivo, ensuring that active neurons receive an adequate supply of nutrients.
A heterologously expressed form of the human Parkinson disease-associated protein -synuclein with a 10-residue N-terminal extension is shown to form a stable tetramer in the absence of lipid bilayers or micelles. Sequential NMR assignments, intramonomer nuclear Overhauser effects, and circular dichroism spectra are consistent with transient formation of -helices in the first 100 N-terminal residues of the 140-residue -synuclein sequence. Total phosphorus analysis indicates that phospholipids are not associated with the tetramer as isolated, and chemical cross-linking experiments confirm that the tetramer is the highest-order oligomer present at NMR sample concentrations. Image reconstruction from electron micrographs indicates that a symmetric oligomer is present, with three- or fourfold symmetry. Thermal unfolding experiments indicate that a hydrophobic core is present in the tetramer. A dynamic model for the tetramer structure is proposed, based on expected close association of the amphipathic central helices observed in the previously described micelle-associated &quot;hairpin&quot; structure of -synuclein.

The non-invasive recording of brain activity with functional brain imaging greatly advances our understanding of human cognition. At the meantime, more powerful multivariate analysis methods are being developed to compensate the limited capability of traditional univariate approaches. In this review, I will introduce the development of these multivariate methods for functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the dominant brain imaging technique used in cognitive neuroscience society. The physiological basis of this analysis approach and its future directions will be discussed as well.
Multi-channel recording is now a widely used tool in neuroscience research that makes it possible to study the activity of neuron population. The data collected from multiple neurons indicate important information of neural coding rules and brain functional mechanism, which requires advanced computational techniques to decode. Here we reviewed the methods for multi-channel neural data analysis and gave brief introduction of their typical application for studying different kinds of neural data.
Effects of excitotoxic injury to the thoracic gray matter on sensitivity to below-level nociceptive stimulation were evaluated for female and male Long-Evans rats. Operant escape and lick/guard (L/G) reflex responses to thermal stimulation were evaluated before and for 13-15 weeks after: 1) injections of quisqualic acid (QUIS) into the thoracic gray matter (T8-9), 2) laminectomy and spinal exposure and penetration without injection (sham) or 3) no surgical procedure (control). L/G responding to heat stimulation (44 C) was unaffected for females and males following thoracic QUIS injections. Similarly, male escape performance was not significantly altered for 44 C or 10 C stimulation after QUIS injections or sham surgery. However, escape testing following QUIS and sham injections revealed increased heat sensitivity (44 C) and decreased cold sensitivity (10 C) for females. This selective effect is indicative of altered sympathetic activation by the thoracic injections. The effect of sham surgery suggests that female rats are vulnerable to ischemic injury during exposure and manipulation of the spinal cord. Escape from nociceptive heat and cold sensitivity of control males and females was unchanged over 13-15 weeks of testing.

Parkinson's disease is caused by the premature death of neurons in the midbrain. By contrast, cancer spawns from cells that refuse to die. We would therefore expect their pathogenic mechanisms to be very different. However, recent genetic studies and emerging functional work show that strikingly similar and overlapping pathways are involved in both diseases. We consider these areas of convergence and discuss how insights from one disease can inform us about, and possibly help us to treat, the other.
It has been well established that aging is the most prominent risk factor for PD. In the MPTP mouse model which has been widely used to study PD, studies have shown that MPTP exhibits its neurotoxic effects on the dopaminergic system in an age-dependent manner. Although it is recognized the serotonergic system is impacted in PD, how aging influences serotonergic neurodegeneration in PD has not been adequately investigated. In the present studies, we examined the long-term effects of MPTP treatment on regional concentrations of dopamine (DA), serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) in the striatum and prefrontal cortex (PFC). We also determined if there are differences in the age-dependent vulnerability of the monoaminergic system to MPTP. In young (3-month-old) mice, MPTP produced significant decreases in striatal DA but no changes in striatal 5-HT and NE three weeks after MPTP treatment. There was partial recovery of striatal DA concentrations 18 months later. This was accompanied by elevated striatal 5-HT. In the PFC, NE was decreased but there was complete recovery 18 months later. By contrast, we observed a long-term decrease in prefrontal 5-HT with no recovery of 5-HT concentrations 18 months after MPTP treatment. Striatal DA and NE but not 5-HT neurons exhibited age-dependent vulnerability to MPTP. Aging had no influence on the neurotoxic effects of MPTP in the PFC. Thus, there is divergence in the response of DA and 5-HT systems to MPTP neurotoxicity.
Activation of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlu2 and mGlu3) has been implicated as a potential therapeutic strategy for treating both motor symptoms and progressive neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease (PD). Modulation of excitatory transmission in the basal ganglia represents a possible mechanism by which group II mGlu agonists could exert antiparkinsonian effects. Previous studies have identified reversible effects of mGlu2/3 activation on excitatory transmission at various synapses in the basal ganglia, including the excitatory synapse between the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr). Using whole-cell patch clamp studies of GABAergic SNr neurons in rat midbrain slices, we have found that a prolonged activation of group II mGlus by the selective agonist LY379268 induces a long-term depression (LTD) of evoked excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) amplitude. Bath application of LY379268 (100nM, 10min) induced a marked reduction in EPSC amplitude, and excitatory transmission remained depressed for at least 40min after agonist washout. The effect of LY379268 was concentration-dependent and was completely blocked by the group II mGlu-preferring antagonist LY341495 (500nM). To determine the relative contributions of mGlu2 and mGlu3 to the LTD induced by LY379268, we tested the ability of LY379268 (100nM) to induce LTD in wild type mice and mice lacking mGlu2 or mGlu3. LY379268 induced similar LTD in wild type mice and mGlu3 knockout mice, whereas LTD was absent in mGlu2 knockout mice, indicating that mGlu2 activation is necessary for the induction of LTD in the SNr. These studies suggest a novel role for mGlu2 in the long-term regulation of excitatory transmission in the SNr and invite further exploration of mGlu2 as a therapeutic target for treating the motor symptoms of PD.
Recent studies have indicated that bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) have significant tropism towards glioma which makes them play an important role in carrying genes/drugs to inhibit the growth of glioma as cell vehicles. But BMSCs may differentiate into neural cells under entocranial environment and few researches support the idea that neurally differentiated bone marrow stromal cells (N-D-BMSCs) still hold the capacity of migrating to the tumor sites. The aim of our study was to investigate the tropism of N-D-BMSCs towards C6 glioma. In vitro migration assay was employed by transwell co-culture system and Student's t-test analysis indicated that N-D-BMSCs had the significant tropism towards C6 glioma-conditioned medium (GCM) (P&lt;0.01). Furthermore, the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) bioactivity of the C6 GCM was neutralized by the anti-rat VEGF antibody and our data suggested that the VEGF from C6 GCM hold chemoattraction for N-D-BMSCs and some other cytokines from the C6 GCM may be responsible for the chemoattraction for N-D-BMSCs. In vivo migration assay was carried out with cells transplantation and one way ANOVA analysis indicated that the tropism of N-D-BMSCs towards C6 glioma sites presented time variation (P-value=2.9E-20). Moreover, multiple comparisons for the time variables with the Student's t-test and the results suggested that the migration capacity of N-D-BMSCs towards C6 glioma sites reach the peak on the 7th day after transplantation. These results demonstrate that N-D-BMSCs as well as BMSCs have significant tropism towards C6 glioma.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a standard tool in neuroscience research and therapy. Here we study one rTMS property that has not received adequate attention, the interaction of subthreshold intensity stimulation and low frequencies. We applied 1Hz rTMS over the motor cortex at three intensities, 40%, 80% and 100% of the resting motor threshold (rMT), and measured cortical excitability before and after the stimulation sessions. When comparing motor evoked potential (MEP) measured from the abductor pollicis brevis (APB) muscle before and after rTMS stimulation, we found that low intensity (40% MT) stimulation significantly decreased MEP magnitude, some smaller (non-significant) inhibition was found for the 80% MT intensity and increased MEP was found for the high intensity (100% MT) stimulation. Our results indicate that when explaining the input-output relationship of motor cortex induced activation as an intensity-dependent function, there might be a need to split it into separate functions associated with separate processes mediated by different cell types such as interneurons, pyramidal neurons and others.
Stress is suggested to exacerbate symptoms and contribute to relapse in patients with schizophrenia and several other psychiatric disorders. A prominent feature of many of these illnesses is an impaired ability to filter information through sensorimotor gating processes. Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is a functional measure of sensorimotor gating, and known to be deficient in schizophrenia and sometimes in post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), both of which are also sensitive to stress-induced symptom deterioration. We previously found that a psychological stressor (exposure to a ferret without physical contact), but not footshock, disrupted PPI in rats, suggesting that intense psychological stress/trauma may uniquely model stress-induced sensorimotor gating abnormalities. In the present experiment, we sought to recreate the conditions where we found this behavioral difference, and to explore possible underlying neural substrates. Rats were exposed acutely to ferret stress, footshock, or no stress (control). 90 min later, tissue was obtained for Fos immunohistochemistry to assess neuronal activation. Several brain regions (prelimbic, infralimbic, and cingulate cortices, the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, the paraventricular thalamic nucleus, and the lateral periaqueductal gray) were equally activated following exposure to either stressor. Interestingly, the medial amygdala and dorsomedial periaqueductal gray had nearly twice as much Fos activation in the ferret-exposed rats as in the footshock-exposed rats, suggesting that higher activation within these structures may contribute to the unique behavioral effects induced by predator stress. These results may have implications for understanding the neural substrates that could participate in sensorimotor gating abnormalities seen in several psychiatric disorders after psychogenic stress.
Humans' endogenous testosterone concentrations vary over a number of temporal scales, with little known about variation longer than monthly cycles. Past studies of seasonal or circannual variation have principally used male participants and have produced inconsistent results. Thus, little is known about how testosterone concentrations fluctuate throughout the year, whether such variation differs between men and women, and whether there are influences of hormonal contraceptive use. The present study collected saliva samples from a large sample (N=718) of men and women, each collected at one time point within a relatively uniform distribution over a full calendar year. Both men and normally-cycling women displayed seasonal variation in salivary testosterone concentrations, such that testosterone concentrations are maximal in the fall and minimal in the summer. Notably, normally-cycling women had testosterone concentrations that were over 100% greater at their maximum in fall compared to their minimum in summer. Women using hormonal contraceptives not only had consistently lower endogenous testosterone concentrations, but also showed a flatter seasonal testosterone profile. The implications for studies of psychology and human behavioral endocrinology are discussed.
Evaluation of pain is a critical issue in human pathologies but also in animal experimentation. In human studies there is growing evidence that cardiovascular outputs such as heart rate variability (HRV) might be of interest to detect and measure pain expression. Indeed, systems controlling cardiovascular function are closely coupled to the perception of pain. To demonstrate the interest of HRV, we have combined radiotelemetry and remote-controlled nociceptive tests in rats submitted to various situations of acute and persistent inflammatory pain. We found the Poincar plot descriptor SD1 and pNN18 to represent robust indicators of pain, especially in the case of persistent inflammatory states. Further studies will be performed in order to understand by which mechanisms pain-related increases in HRV are produced and if these descriptors can be used for other persistent pain states.
Fear-conditioned analgesia (FCA) is the reduction in pain responding which is expressed upon re-exposure to a context previously paired with an aversive stimulus. Projections along the prefrontal cortex (PFC)-amygdala-dorsal periaqueductal grey (dPAG) pathway may mediate FCA. However, there is a paucity of studies measuring both molecular and electrophysiological changes in this pathway in rats expressing persistent pain-related behaviour or FCA. Male Lister-hooded rats, with stimulating and recording electrodes implanted in the amygdala and dPAG, respectively, either received or did not receive footshock (0.4 mA) paired with context, followed 23.5 h later by an intraplantar injection of saline or formalin (50 L, 2.5%) into the right hindpaw. Thirty minutes post-formalin/saline, rats were re-exposed to the context for 15 min, during which pain-related behaviours were assessed in addition to evoked field potential recordings in the amygdala-dPAG pathway. Immediately after the 15-minute trial, PFC tissue was isolated for measurement of total and phosphorylated extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK) by western blotting. Formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour in non-fear-conditioned rats was associated with increased field potential amplitude in the dPAG and increased relative expression of phospho-ERK in the PFC. These effects were abolished in rats expressing FCA. Fear conditioning in non-formalin treated rats was associated with increased phospho-ERK in the PFC but no change in field potential amplitude in the dPAG. Together, these data suggest differential, state-dependent alterations in electrophysiological activity and ERK phosphorylation along the PFC-amygdala-dPAG pathway during pain, conditioned fear, and FCA.
BACKGROUND: How is happiness generated via brain function in lucky individuals who have the good fortune to be happy? Conceptually, well-being or happiness has long been viewed as requiring at least two crucial ingredients: positive affect or pleasure (hedonia) and a sense of meaningfulness or engagement in life (eudaimonia). Science has recently made progress in relating hedonic pleasure to brain function, and so here we survey new insights into how brains generate the hedonic ingredient of sustained or frequent pleasure. We also briefly discuss how brains might connect hedonia states of pleasure to eudaimonia assessments of meaningfulness, and so create balanced states of positive well-being. RESULTS: Notable progress has been made in understanding brain bases of hedonic processing, producing insights into that brain systems that cause and/or code sensory pleasures. Progress has been facilitated by the recognition that hedonic brain mechanisms are largely shared between humans and other mammals, allowing application of conclusions from animal studies to a better understanding of human pleasures. In the past few years, evidence has also grown to indicate that for humans, brain mechanisms of higher abstract pleasures strongly overlap with more basic sensory pleasures. This overlap may provide a window into underlying brain circuitry that generates all pleasures, including even the hedonic quality of pervasive well-being that detaches from any particular sensation to apply to daily life in a more sustained or frequent fashion. CONCLUSIONS: Hedonic insights are applied to understanding human well-being here. Our strategy combines new findings on brain mediators that generate the pleasure of sensations with evidence that human brains use many of the same hedonic circuits from sensory pleasures to create the higher pleasures. This in turn may be linked to how hedonic systems interact with other brain systems relevant to self-understanding and the meaning components of eudaimonic happiness. Finally, we speculate a bit about how brains that generate hedonia states might link to eudaimonia assessments to create properly balanced states of positive well-being that approach true happiness.
We previously demonstrated the ability of HIV-1 Vpr protein to activate the oxidative stress pathway, thus leading to the induction of the hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF-1). Therefore, we sought to examine the interplay between the two proteins and the impact of HIF-1 activation on HIV-1 transcription. Using transient transfection assays, we identified the optimal concentration of HIF-1 necessary for the activation of the HIV-1 promoter as well as the domain within HIF-1 responsible for this activation. Our findings indicated that activation of the HIV-1 LTR by Vpr is HIF-1 dependent. Furthermore, we showed that both Vpr and HIF-1 activate the HIV-1 promoter through the GC-rich binding domain within the LTR. Taken together, these data shed more light on the mechanisms used by Vpr to activate the HIV-1 promoter and placed HIF-1 as a major participant in this activation.
Rhomboid-7 (rho-7) is a mitochondrial-specific intramembranous protease. The loss-of-function mutation rho-7 results in semi-lethality, while escapers have a reduced lifespan with several neurological disorders [1]. Here we show that general, or CNS-specific expression of rho-7 can rescue the lethality of rho-7. General, or CNS-specific over-expression of rho-7 in otherwise wild-type animals caused semi-lethality, with approximately 50% of the animals escaping this lethality, developing into adults displaying a shortened life span with larval locomotory problem. On a cellular level, over-expression resulted in severe depression of ATP levels and cytochrome c oxidase subunit II mRNA levels, a lowered number of mitochondria in neurons and aggregation of mitochondria in the brain indicating mitochondrial malfunction. Over-expression of rho-7 in developing eye discs resulted in an elevated apoptotic index. In the CNS, elevated levels of rho-7 were accompanied by both isoforms of Opa1-like, a dynamin-like GTPase, a mitochondrial component involved in regulating mitochondrial dynamics and function, including apoptosis. Most, but not all, of rho-7 over-expression phenotypes were suppressed by introducing a heterozygous mutation for Opa1-like. Our results suggest that rho-7 and Opa1-like function in a common molecular pathway affecting mitochondrial function and apoptosis in Drosophila melanogaster.
Although cooperation is a fundamental aspect of our society, it has been a longstanding puzzle in biological and social sciences because cooperation is often costly to those who practice it while others benefit. Recent studies have shown that natural selection favors cooperation when cooperators are more likely to interact with each other than with defectors, an effect called positive assortment. It might be that, in the real world, mobility makes positive assortment possible. However, to our knowledge, the coevolutionary dynamics of cooperation and mobility remains poorly understood. In this study, using an individual-based model where both cooperativeness and mobility are evolved under natural selection, we demonstrate that the coevolutionary dynamics results in the oscillation of the frequency of cooperation as long as the benefit-to-cost ratio of cooperation is large. This finding suggests that natural selection favors or fine-tunes a mobility rate by which cooperation can be maintained dynamically in the form of an oscillation without any other high cognitive abilities such as individual identification or memory of the past actions of other individuals.
Genetic mouse models are an important tool in the study of mammalian neural tube closure (Gray &amp; Ross, 2009; Ross, 2010). However, the study of mouse embryos in utero is limited by our inability to directly pharmacologically manipulate the embryos in isolation from the effects of maternal metabolism on the reagent of interest. Whether using a small molecule, recombinant protein, or siRNA, delivery of these substances to the mother, through the diet or by injection will subject these unstable compounds to a variety of bodily defenses that could prevent them from reaching the embryo. Investigations in cultures of whole embryos can be used to separate maternal from intrinsic fetal effects on development. Here, we present a method for culturing mouse embryos using highly enriched media in a roller incubator apparatus that allows for normal neural tube closure after dissection (Crockett, 1990). Once in culture, embryos can be manipulated using conventional in vitro techniques that would not otherwise be possible if the embryos were still in utero. Embryo siblings can be collected at various time points to study different aspects of neurulation, occurring from E7-7.5 (neural plate formation, just prior to the initiation of neurulation) to E9.5-10 (at the conclusion of cranial fold and caudal neuropore closure, Kaufman, 1992). In this protocol, we demonstrate our method for dissecting embryos at timepoints that are optimal for the study of cranial neurulation. Embryos will be dissected at E8.5 (approx. 10-12 somities), after the initiation of neural tube closure but prior to embryo turning and cranial neural fold closure, and maintained in culture till E10 (26-28 somities), when cranial neurulation should be complete.
The present study investigated the effects of approach versus avoidance motivation on declarative learning. Human participants navigated a virtual reality version of the Morris water task, a classic spatial memory paradigm, adapted to permit the experimental manipulation of motivation during learning. During this task, participants were instructed to navigate to correct platforms while avoiding incorrect platforms. To manipulate motivational states participants were either rewarded for navigating to correct locations (approach) or punished for navigating to incorrect platforms (avoidance). Participants' skin conductance levels (SCLs) were recorded during navigation to investigate the role of physiological arousal in motivated learning. Behavioral results revealed that, overall, approach motivation enhanced and avoidance motivation impaired memory performance compared to nonmotivated spatial learning. This advantage was evident across several performance indices, including accuracy, learning rate, path length, and proximity to platform locations during probe trials. SCL analysis revealed three key findings. First, within subjects, arousal interacted with approach motivation, such that high arousal on a given trial was associated with performance deficits. In addition, across subjects, high arousal negated or reversed the benefits of approach motivation. Finally, low-performing, highly aroused participants showed SCL responses similar to those of avoidance-motivation participants, suggesting that for these individuals, opportunities for reward may evoke states of learning similar to those typically evoked by threats of punishment. These results provide a novel characterization of how approach and avoidance motivation influence declarative memory and indicate a critical and selective role for arousal in determining how reinforcement influences goal-oriented learning.



Increased glucocorticoids (GCs) have been implicated in the pathophysiology of depressive disorder. We previously found that dexamethasone (DEX, a synthetic GC) repressed brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-induced synaptic proteins via suppressing extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) signaling. Here, we investigated the possible involvement of Src homology-2 domain-containing phosphatase2 (Shp2), an ERK signaling mediator. We found that DEX suppressed Shp2 interaction with TrkB, a receptor for BDNF, in cultured cortical neurons. NSC87877, a Shp2 inhibitor, mimicked DEX, and Shp2 overexpression reversed the effect of DEX, suggesting that GCs suppress ERK signaling through inhibiting the interaction of Shp2 with TrkB.
To thrive in any given environment, mobile creatures must be able to learn from the outcomes of both successful and disappointing events. To learn from success, the brain relies on signals originating in the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra that result in increased release of dopamine in the striatum. Recently, it was shown that to learn from disappointment the brain relies on signals originating in the lateral habenula, which indirectly inhibit dopaminergic activity. The habenula is a small brain region that has been shown in mice to be critical for the appearance of nicotine withdrawal symptoms. The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits expressed in the medial habenula are necessary to observe withdrawal symptoms in mice, and blocking nicotinic activity in the medial habenula only is sufficient to precipitate withdrawal in dependent mice. In addition, recent genome wide association studies have shown that in humans, genetic variants in the same nicotinic receptor subunits are at least partially responsible for the genetic predisposition to become a smoker. The habenula is linked not only to nicotine, but also to the effects of several other drugs. We postulate that the continuous use of drugs of abuse results in habenular hyperactivity as a compensatory mechanism for artificially elevated dopamine release. Drug withdrawal would then result in non-compensated habenular hyperactivity, and could be thought of as a state of continuous disappointment (or a negative emotional state), driving repeated drug use. We believe that drugs that alter habenular activity may be effective therapies against tobacco smoke and drug addiction in general.
The hedonic properties of food can stimulate feeding behaviour even when energy requirements have been met, contributing to weight gain and obesity. Similarly, the hedonic effects of drugs of abuse can motivate their excessive intake, culminating in addiction. Common brain substrates regulate the hedonic properties of palatable food and addictive drugs, and recent reports suggest that excessive consumption of food or drugs of abuse induces similar neuroadaptive responses in brain reward circuitries. Here, we review evidence suggesting that obesity and drug addiction may share common molecular, cellular and systems-level mechanisms.
Traditional neurological models of language were based on a single neural pathway (the dorsal pathway underpinned by the arcuate fasciculus). Contemporary neuroscience indicates that anterior temporal regions and the &quot;ventral&quot; language pathway also make a significant contribution, yet there is no computationally-implemented model of the dual pathway, nor any synthesis of normal and aphasic behavior. The &quot;Lichtheim 2&quot; model was implemented by developing a new variety of computational model which reproduces and explains normal and patient data but also incorporates neuroanatomical information into its architecture. By bridging the &quot;mind-brain&quot; gap in this way, the resultant &quot;neurocomputational&quot; model provides a unique opportunity to explore the relationship between lesion location and behavioral deficits, and to provide a platform for simulating functional neuroimaging data.
Exploratory whisking in rat is an example of self-generated movement on multiple timescales, from slow variations in the envelope of whisking to the rapid sequence of muscle contractions duringa single whisk cycle. We find that, as a population, spike trains of single units in primary vibrissa motor cortex report the absolute angle of vibrissa position. This representation persists after sensory nerve transection, indicating an efferent source. About two-thirds of the units are modulated by slow variations in the envelope of whisking, while relatively few units report rapid changes in position within the whisk cycle. The combined results from this study and past measurements, which show that primary sensory cortex codes the whisking envelope asa motor copy signal, imply that signals present in both sensory and motor cortices are necessary to compute angular coordinates based on vibrissa touch.
Anatomical, stimulation, and lesion data have suggested a homology between the rat frontal orienting fields (FOF) (centered at+2 AP,1.3 ML mm from Bregma) and primate frontal cortices such as the frontal or supplementary eye fields. We investigated the functional role of the FOF using rats trained to perform a memory-guided orienting task, in which there was a delay period between the end ofa sensory stimulus instructing orienting direction and the time of the allowed motor response. Unilateral inactivation of the FOF resulted in impaired contralateral responses. Extracellular recordings of single units revealed that 37% of FOF neurons had delay period firing rates that predicted the direction of the rats' later orienting motion. Our data provide the first electrophysiological and pharmacological evidence supporting the existence in the rat, as in the primate, of a frontal cortical area involved in the preparation and/or planning of orienting responses.
Vesicular transporters are required for the storage ofall classical and amino acid neurotransmitters in synaptic vesicles. Some neurons lack known vesicular transporters, suggesting additional neurotransmitter systems remain unidentified. Insect mushroom bodies (MBs) are critical for several behaviors, including learning, but the neurotransmitters released by the intrinsic Kenyon cells (KCs) remain unknown. Likewise, KCs do not express a known vesicular transporter. We report the identification of a novel Drosophila gene portabella (prt) that is structurally similar to known vesicular transporters. Both larval and adult brains express PRT in the KCs of the MBs. Additional PRT cells project to the central complex and optic ganglia. prt mutation causes an olfactory learning deficit and an unusual defect in the male's position during copulation that is rescued by expression in KCs. Because prt is expressed in neurons that lack other known vesicular transporters or neurotransmitters, it may define a previously unknown neurotransmitter system responsible for sexual behavior and a component of olfactory learning.
Research in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has led to insights in neural development, axon guidance, ion channel function, synaptic transmission, learning and memory, diurnal rhythmicity, and neural disease that have had broad implications for neuroscience. Drosophila is currently the eukaryotic model organism that permits the most sophisticated in vivo manipulations to address the function of neurons and neuronally expressed genes. Here, we summarize many of the techniques that help assess the role of specific neurons by labeling, removing, or altering their activity. We also survey genetic manipulations to identify and characterize neural genes by mutation, overexpression, and protein labeling. Here, we attempt to acquaint the reader with available options and contexts to apply these methods.
High-frequency open-loop deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been used to alleviate Parkinson's symptoms for almost 20 years. In this issue of Neuron, Rosin etal. present a closed-loop real-time approach that improves DBS and shines light on the etiology of motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease.
In this issue, two studies, by Ehrlich etal. and Hill etal., address the role of the frontal motor cortices in behavior of the rat and suggest a potential role for this structure in high-level control of diverse behaviors. Hill etal. show that motor cortical neurons predict whisker movements even without sensory feedback and that their activity reflects efferent control. Surprisingly, Ehrlich etal. report the participation of this same cortical region in the preparation and execution of orienting behaviors.
Curiously, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD), seemingly disparate neurodegenerative disorders, can be inherited together. Two groups (DeJesus-Hernandez etal. and Renton etal.) show that the long sought after ALS/FTD mutation on chromosomal region 9p is a hexanucleotide expansion in C90RF72. These studies, plus a study on X-linked ALS/FTD, provide molecular starting points for identifying pathways that link ALS and FTD pathogenesis.
Several families have been reported with autosomal-dominant frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), genetically linked to chromosome 9p21. Here, we report an expansion of a noncoding GGGGCC hexanucleotide repeat in the gene C9ORF72 that is strongly associated with disease in a large FTD/ALS kindred, previously reported to be conclusively linked to chromosome 9p. This same repeat expansion was identified in the majority of our families with a combined FTD/ALS phenotype and TDP-43-based pathology. Analysis of extended clinical series found the C9ORF72 repeat expansion to be the most common genetic abnormality in both familial FTD (11.7%) and familial ALS (23.5%). The repeat expansion leads to the loss of one alternatively spliced C9ORF72 transcript and to formation of nuclear RNA foci, suggesting multiple disease mechanisms. Our findings indicate that repeat expansion in C9ORF72 is a major cause of both FTD and ALS.

To investigate the connectivity of brain networks noninvasively and dynamically, we have developed a new strategy to functionalize neuronal tracers and designed a biocompatible probe that can be visualized in vivo using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Furthermore, the multimodal design used allows combined ex vivo studies with microscopic spatial resolution by conventional histochemical techniques. We present data on the functionalization of biocytin, a well-known neuronal tract tracer, and demonstrate the validity of the approach by showing brain networks of cortical connectivity in live rats under MRI, together with the corresponding microscopic details, such as fibers and neuronal morphology under light microscopy. We further demonstrate that the developed molecule is the first MRI-visible probe to preferentially trace retrograde connections. Our study offers a new platform for the development of multimodal molecular imaging tools of broad interest in neuroscience, that capture in vivo the dynamics of large scale neural networks together with their microscopic characteristics, thereby spanning several organizational levels.
On January 21, 2011, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved Viibryd, a new selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), to treat major depressive disorder in adults developed by Clinical Data, Inc.
A major feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a late-onset neurodegenerative disorder, is the ordered aggregation of the -amyloid peptide (A) into fibrils that comprise extracellular neuritic plaques found in the disease brain. One of many potential pathways for A toxicity may be modulation of lipid membrane function. Here, we show by in situ atomic force microscopy (AFM) that astrocyte secreted lipoprotein particles (ASLPs) containing different isoforms of apolipoprotein E (apoE), of which the apoE4 allele is a major risk factor for the development of AD, can protect total brain lipid extract bilayers from A(1-40) induced disruption. The apoE4 allele was less effective in protecting lipid bilayers from disruption compared with apoE3. Size analysis of apoE-containing ASLPs and mechanical studies of bilayer properties revealed that apoE-containing ASLPs modulate the mechanical properties of bilayers by acquiring some bilayer components (most likely cholesterol and/or oxidatively damaged lipids). Measurement of bilayer mechanical properties was accomplished with scanning probe acceleration microscopy (SPAM). These measurements demonstrated that apoE4 was also less effective in modulating mechanical properties of bilayers in comparison with apoE3. This ability of apoE to alter the mechanical properties of lipid membranes may represent a potential mechanism for the suppression of A(1-40) induced bilayer disruption.
Herein we report the discovery, synthesis and evaluation of a series of N-Aryl-bicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxamides as selective KCNQ2 (K(v)7.2) and KCNQ4 (K(v)7.4) channel openers. The best compound, 1 (ML213) has an EC(50) of 230 nM (KCNQ2) and 510 nM (KCNQ4) and is selective for KCNQ2 and KCNQ4 channels versus a large battery of related potassium channels, as well as affording modest brain levels. This represents the first report of unique selectivity profile for KCNQ2 and KCNQ4 over the other channels (KCNQ1/3/5) and as such should prove to be a valuable tool compound for understanding these channels in regulating neuronal activity.
The olfactory system is the appropriate model for studying several aspects of neuronal physiology spanning from the developmental stage to neural network remodelling in the adult brain. Both the morphological and physiological understanding of this system were strongly supported by classical histochemistry. It is emblematic the case of the Olfactory Marker Protein (OMP) staining, the first, powerful marker for fully differentiated olfactory receptor neurons and a key tool to investigate the dynamic relations between peripheral sensory epithelia and central relay regions given its presence within olfactory fibers reaching the olfactory bulb (OB). Similarly, the use of thymidine analogues was able to show neurogenesis in an adult mammalian brain far before modern virus labelling and lipophilic tracers based methods. Nowadays, a wealth of new histochemical techniques combining cell and molecular biology approaches is available, giving stance to move from the analysis of the chemically identified circuitries to functional research. The study of adult neurogenesis is indeed one of the best explanatory examples of this statement. After defining the cell types involved and the basic physiology of this phenomenon in the OB plasticity, we can now analyze the role of neurogenesis in well testable behaviours related to socio-chemical communication in rodents.
As markers of DNA synthesis, [(3)H]thymidine ([(3)H]dT) and the later developed analog bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) have revolutionized our ability to identify dividing cells and follow their fate in various tissues, including the nervous system. However, the effect of the incorporation of these molecules into DNA on cell proliferation, migration, differentiation, and function is not fully understood. Here, we compare the number and distribution of labeled cells in the cerebral cortex of postnatal macaque monkeys exposed to either [(3)H]dT or BrdU as embryos. The large size and prolonged brain development in this species allows higher resolution of cellular events and more accurate discrimination between the two methods. Our analysis revealed substantial differences in the number and distribution of labeled cells. The data indicate that random incorporation of the thymidine analog BrdU into the genes of dividing cells makes the fate of postmitotic neurons more prone to unpredictable errors than the incorporation of the more natural DNA constituent nucleotide [(3)H]dT. These findings have implications for the interpretation of results obtained by BrdU as an index of the number of neurons produced, and their migration, placement, subsequent connectivity, function, and survival.
Microglia represent the main cellular targets of HIV-1 in the brain. Infected and/or activated microglia play a pathogenic role in HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) by instigating primary dysfunction and subsequent death of neurons. Although microglia are known to secrete neurotoxins when infected with HIV-1, the detailed mechanism of neurotoxicity remains unclear. Using a human microglia primary culture system and macrophage-tropic HIV-1 strains, we have now demonstrated that HIV-1 infection of microglia resulted in a significant increase in extracellular glutamate concentrations and elevated levels of neurotoxicity. RNA and protein analysis revealed upregulation of the glutamate-generating enzyme glutaminase isoform glutaminase C in HIV-1-infected microglia. The clinical relevance of these findings was further corroborated with investigation of postmortem brain tissues. The glutaminase C levels in the brain tissues of HIV dementia individuals were significantly higher than HIV serum-negative control and correlated with elevated concentrations of glutamate. When glutaminase was subsequently inhibited by siRNA or by a small molecular inhibitor, the HIV-induced glutamate production and the neuronal loss was diminished. In conclusion, these findings support glutaminase as a potential component of the HAND pathogenic process as well as a novel therapeutic target in their treatment.
A classical example of age-dependent plasticity is ocular dominance (OD) plasticity, triggered by monocular deprivation (MD). Sensitivity of cortical circuits to a brief period of MD is maximal in juvenile animals and downregulated in adult age. It remains unclear whether a reduced potential for morphological remodeling underlies this downregulation of physiological plasticity in adulthood. Here we have tested whether stimulation of structural rearrangements is effective in promoting experience-dependent plasticity in adult age. We have exploited a bacterial protein toxin, cytotoxic necrotizing factor 1 (CNF1), that regulates actin dynamics and structure of neuronal processes via a persistent activation of Rho GTPases. Injection of CNF1 into the adult rat visual cortex triggered a long-lasting activation of the Rho GTPase Rac1, with a consequent increase in spine density and length in pyramidal neurons. Adult rats treated with CNF1, but not controls, showed an OD shift toward the open eye after MD. CNF1-mediated OD plasticity was selectively attributable to the enhancement of open-eye responses, whereas closed-eye inputs were unaffected. This effect correlated with an increased density of geniculocortical terminals in layer IV of monocularly deprived, CNF1-treated rats. Thus, Rho GTPase activation reinstates OD plasticity in the adult cortex via the potentiation of more active inputs from the open eye. These data establish a direct link between structural remodeling and functional plasticity and demonstrate a role for Rho GTPases in brain plasticity in vivo. The plasticizing effects of Rho GTPase activation may be exploited to promote brain repair.
New neurons are continuously generated in the subgranular zone of the adult hippocampus and, once sufficiently mature, are thought to integrate into hippocampal memory circuits. However, whether they play an essential role in subsequent memory expression is not known. Previous studies have shown that suppression of adult neurogenesis often (but not always) impairs subsequent hippocampus-dependent learning (i.e., produces anterograde effects). A major challenge for these studies is that these new neurons represent only a small subpopulation of all dentate granule cells, and so there is large potential for either partial or complete compensation by granule cells generated earlier on during development. A potentially more powerful approach to investigate this question would be to ablate adult-generated neurons after they have already become part of a memory trace (i.e., retrograde effects). Here we developed a diphtheria toxin-based strategy in mice that allowed us to selectively ablate a population of predominantly mature, adult-generated neurons either before or after learning, without affecting ongoing neurogenesis. Removal of these neurons before learning did not prevent the formation of new contextual fear or water maze memories. In contrast, removal of an equivalent population after learning degraded existing contextual fear and water maze memories, without affecting nonhippocampal memory. Ablation of these adult-generated neurons even 1 month after learning produced equivalent memory degradation in the water maze. These retrograde effects suggest that adult-generated neurons form a critical and enduring component of hippocampal memory traces.
Synaptic connections can be stably maintained for prolonged periods, yet can be rapidly disassembled during the developmental refinement of neural circuitry and following cytological insults that lead to neurodegeneration. To date, the molecular mechanisms that determine whether a synapse will persist versus being remodeled or eliminated remain poorly understood. Mutations in Drosophila stathmin were isolated in two independent genetic screens that sought mutations leading to impaired synapse stability at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Here we demonstrate that Stathmin, a protein that associates with microtubules and can function as a point of signaling integration, is necessary to maintain the stability of the Drosophila NMJ. We show that Stathmin protein is widely distributed within motoneurons and that loss of Stathmin causes impaired NMJ growth and stability. In addition, we show that stathmin mutants display evidence of defective axonal transport, a common feature associated with neuronal degeneration and altered synapse stability. The disassembly of the NMJ in stathmin includes a predictable sequence of cytological events, suggesting that a common program of synapse disassembly is induced following the loss of Stathmin protein. These data define a required function for Stathmin during synapse maintenance in a model system in which there is only a single stathmin gene, enabling future genetic investigation of Stathmin function with potential relevance to the cause and progression of neuromuscular degenerative disease.
Deep anesthesia is commonly used as a model of slow-wave sleep (SWS). Ketamine-xylazine anesthesia reproduces the main features of sleep slow oscillation: slow, large-amplitude waves in field potential, which are generated by the alternation of hyperpolarized and depolarized states of cortical neurons. However, direct quantitative comparison of field potential and membrane potential fluctuations during natural sleep and anesthesia is lacking, so it remains unclear how well the properties of sleep slow oscillation are reproduced by the ketamine-xylazine anesthesia model. Here, we used field potential and intracellular recordings in different cortical areas in the cat to directly compare properties of slow oscillation during natural sleep and ketamine-xylazine anesthesia. During SWS cortical activity showed higher power in the slow/delta (0.1-4 Hz) and spindle (8-14 Hz) frequency range, whereas under anesthesia the power in the gamma band (30-100 Hz) was higher. During anesthesia, slow waves were more rhythmic and more synchronous across the cortex. Intracellular recordings revealed that silent states were longer and the amplitude of membrane potential around transition between active and silent states was bigger under anesthesia. Slow waves were mostly uniform across cortical areas under anesthesia, but in SWS, they were most pronounced in associative and visual areas but smaller and less regular in somatosensory and motor cortices. We conclude that, although the main features of the slow oscillation in sleep and anesthesia appear similar, multiple cellular and network features are differently expressed during natural SWS compared with ketamine-xylazine anesthesia.
Selection and inhibition of motor behaviors are related to the coordinated activity and compositional capabilities of striatal cell assemblies. Striatal network activity represents a main step in basal ganglia processing. The dopaminergic system differentially regulates distinct populations of striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) through the activation of D(1)- or D(2)-type receptors. Although postsynaptic and presynaptic actions of these receptors are clearly different in MSNs during cell-focused studies, their activation during network activity has shown inconsistent responses. Therefore, using electrophysiological techniques, functional multicell calcium imaging, and neuronal population analysis in rat corticostriatal slices, we describe the effect of selective dopaminergic receptor activation in the striatal network by observing cell assembly configurations. At the microcircuit level, during striatal network activity, the selective activation of either D(1)- or D(2)-type receptors is reflected as overall increases in neuronal synchronization. However, graph theory techniques applied to the transitions between network states revealed receptor-specific configurations of striatal cell assemblies: D(1) receptor activation generated closed trajectories with high recurrence and few alternate routes favoring the selection of specific sequences, whereas D(2) receptor activation created trajectories with low recurrence and more alternate pathways while promoting diverse transitions among neuronal pools. At the single-cell level, the activation of dopaminergic receptors enhanced the negative-slope conductance region (NSCR) in D(1)-type-responsive cells, whereas in neurons expressing D(2)-type receptors, the NSCR was decreased. Consequently, receptor-specific network dynamics most probably result from the interplay of postsynaptic and presynaptic dopaminergic actions.
Perceptual skills improve with daily practice (Fahle and Poggio, 2002; Fine and Jacobs, 2002). Practice induces plasticity in task-relevant brain regions during an &quot;offline&quot; consolidation period thought to last several hours, during which initially fragile memory traces become stable (Karni, 1996; Dudai, 2004). Impaired retention of a task if followed by training in another task is considered evidence for the instability of memory traces during consolidation (Dudai, 2004). However, it remains unknown when after training memory traces become stable and resistant against interference, where in the brain the neuronal mechanisms responsible for interference are localized, and how these mechanisms produce interference. Here, we show in human participants strong interference between two visual skill-learning tasks for surprisingly long time intervals between training periods (up to 24 h). Interference occurred during asymptotic learning, but only when stimuli were similar between tasks. This supports a strong contribution to interference of low-level visual cortical areas (Karni and Bertini, 1997; Ahissar and Hochstein, 2004), where similar stimuli recruit overlapping neuronal populations. Our finding of stimulus-dependent and time-independent interference reveals a fundamental limit in cortical plasticity that constrains the simultaneous representation of multiple skills in a single neuronal population, rather than a time-limited consolidation process.
We explored whether nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) might participate in paracrine transmission by asking if they respond to spillover of ACh at a model synapse in the chick ciliary ganglion, where ACh activates diffusely distributed 7- and 3-containing nAChRs (7-nAChRs and 3*-nAChRs). Elevating quantal content lengthened EPSC decay time and prolonged both the fast (7-nAChR-mediated) and slow (3*-nAChR-mediated) components of decay, even in the presence of acetylcholinesterase. Increasing quantal content also prolonged decay times of pharmacologically isolated 7-nAChR- and 3*-nAChR-EPSCs. The effect upon EPSC decay time of changing quantal content was 5-10 times more pronounced for 3*-nAChR- than 7-nAChR-mediated currents and operated over a considerably longer time window:  20 vs  2 ms. Control experiments rule out a presynaptic source for the effect. We suggest that 3*-nAChR currents are prolonged at higher quantal content because of ACh spillover and postsynaptic potentiation (Hartzell et al., 1975), while 7-nAChR currents are prolonged probably for other reasons, e.g., increased occupancy of long channel open states. 3*-nAChRs report more spillover when 7-nAChRs are competitively blocked than under native conditions; this could be explained if 7-nAChRs buffer ACh and regulate its availability to activate 3*-nAChRs. Our results suggest that non-7-nAChRs such as 3*-nAChRs may be suitable for paracrine nicotinic signaling but that 7-nAChRs may not be suitable. Our results further suggest that 7-nAChRs may buffer ACh and regulate its bioavailability.
Vertebrate neuromuscular junctions are highly stable synapses, retaining the morphology they achieve in early postnatal development throughout most of life. However, these synapses undergo dramatic change during aging. The acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) change from smooth gutters into fragmented islands, and the nerve terminals change similarly to be varicosities apposed to these islands. These changes have been attributed to a slow deterioration in mechanisms maintaining the synapse. We have used repeated, vital imaging to investigate how these changes occur in the sternomastoid muscle of aging mice. We have found, contrary to expectation, that individual junctions change infrequently, but change, when it occurs, is sudden and dramatic. The change mimics that reported previously for cases in which muscle fibers are deliberately damaged: most of the AChRs present disappear rapidly and are replaced by a new set of receptors that become fragmented. The fiber segment underneath the synapse has centrally located nuclei, showing that this segment has undergone necrosis, quickly regenerated, and been reinnervated with an altered synapse. We show that necrotic events are common in aged muscle and have likely been missed previously as a cause of the alterations in aging because central nuclei are a transient phenomenon and the necrotic events at the junction infrequent. However, the changes are permanent and accumulate over time. Interventions to reduce the neuromuscular changes during aging should likely focus on making muscle fibers resistant to injury.
A role for newborn neurons in olfactory memory has been proposed based on learning-dependent modulation of olfactory bulb neurogenesis in adults. We hypothesized that if newborn neurons support memory, then they should be suppressed by memory erasure. Using an ecological approach in mice, we showed that behaviorally breaking a previously learned odor-reward association prematurely suppressed newborn neurons selected to survive during initial learning. Furthermore, intrabulbar infusions of the caspase pan-inhibitor ZVAD (benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp) during the behavioral odor-reward extinction prevented newborn neurons death and erasure of the odor-reward association. Newborn neurons thus contribute to the bulbar network plasticity underlying long-term memory.
Large scale electrophysiological recordings from neuronal ensembles offer the opportunity to investigate how the brain orchestrates the wide variety of behaviors from the spiking activity of its neurons. One of the most effective methods to monitor spiking activity from a large number of neurons in multiple local neuronal circuits simultaneously is by using silicon electrode arrays. Action potentials produce large transmembrane voltage changes in the vicinity of cell somata. These output signals can be measured by placing a conductor in close proximity of a neuron. If there are many active (spiking) neurons in the vicinity of the tip, the electrode records combined signal from all of them, where contribution of a single neuron is weighted by its 'electrical distance'. Silicon probes are ideal recording electrodes to monitor multiple neurons because of a large number of recording sites (+64) and a small volume. Furthermore, multiple sites can be arranged over a distance of millimeters, thus allowing for the simultaneous recordings of neuronal activity in the various cortical layers or in multiple cortical columns (Fig. 1). Importantly, the geometrically precise distribution of the recording sites also allows for the determination of the spatial relationship of the isolated single neurons. Here, we describe an acute, large-scale neuronal recording from the left and right forelimb somatosensory cortex simultaneously in an anesthetized rat with silicon probes (Fig. 2).

Benzodiazepines are widely prescribed drugs used to treat anxiety and insomnia, induce muscle relaxation, control epileptic seizures, promote anaesthesia or produce amnesia. Benzodiazepines are also abused for recreational purposes and the number of benzodiazepine abusers is unfortunately increasing. Within weeks of chronic use, tolerance to the pharmacological effects can develop and withdrawal becomes apparent once the drug is no longer available, which are both conditions indicative of benzodiazepine dependence. Diagnosis of addiction (i.e. compulsive use despite negative consequences) may follow in vulnerable individuals. Here, we review the historical and current use of benzodiazepines from their original synthesis, discovery and commercialisation to the recent identification of the molecular mechanism by which benzodiazepines induce addiction. These results have identified the mechanisms underlying the activation of midbrain dopamine neurons by benzodiazepines, and how these drugs can hijack the mesocorticolimbic reward system. Such knowledge calls for future developments of new receptor subtype specific benzodiazepines with a reduced addiction liability.
Nanomedicine is a rapidly evolving field, for which polymer building blocks are proving useful for the construction of sophisticated devices that provide enhanced diagnostic imaging and treatment of disease, known as theranostics. These well-defined nanoscopic objects have high loading capacities, can protect embedded therapeutic cargo, and offer control over the conditions and rates of release. Theranostics also offer external surface area for the conjugation of ligands to impart stealth characteristics and/or direct their interactions with biological receptors and provide a framework for conjugation of imaging agents to track delivery to diseased site(s). The nanoscopic dimensions allow for extensive biological circulation. The incorporation of such multiple functions is complicated, requiring exquisite chemical control during production and rigorous characterization studies to confirm the compositions, structures, properties, and performance. We are particularly interested in the study of nanoscopic objects designed for treatment of lung infections and acute lung injury, urinary tract infections, and cancer. This Account highlights our work over several years to tune the assembly of unique nanostructures. We provide examples of how the composition, structure, dimensions, and morphology of theranostic devices can tune their performance as drug delivery agents for the treatment of infectious diseases and cancer. The evolution of nanostructured materials from relatively simple overall shapes and internal morphologies to those of increasing complexity is driving the development of synthetic methodologies for the preparation of increasingly complex nanomedicine devices. Our nanomedicine devices are derived from macromolecules that have well-defined compositions, structures, and topologies, which provide a framework for their programmed assembly into nanostructures with controlled sizes, shapes, and morphologies. The inclusion of functional units within selective compartments/domains allows us to create (multi)functional materials. We employ combinations of controlled radical and ring-opening polymerizations, chemical transformations, and supramolecular assembly to construct such materials as functional entities. The use of multifunctional monomers with selective polymerization chemistries affords regiochemically functionalized polymers. Further supramolecular assembly processes in water with further chemical transformations provide discrete nanoscopic objects within aqueous solutions. This approach echoes processes in nature, whereby small molecules (amino acids, nucleic acids, saccharides) are linked into polymers (proteins, DNA/RNA, polysaccharides, respectively) and then those polymers fold into three-dimensional conformations that can lead to nanoscopic functional entities.

Dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) is recruited during visual working memory (WM) when relevant information must be maintained in the presence of distracting information. The mechanism by which DLPFC might ensure successful maintenance of the contents of WM is, however, unclear; it might enhance neural maintenance of memory targets or suppress processing of distracters. To adjudicate between these possibilities, we applied time-locked transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) during functional MRI, an approach that permits causal assessment of a stimulated brain region's influence on connected brain regions, and evaluated how this influence may change under different task conditions. Participants performed a visual WM task requiring retention of visual stimuli (faces or houses) across a delay during which visual distracters could be present or absent. When distracters were present, they were always from the opposite stimulus category, so that targets and distracters were represented in distinct posterior cortical areas. We then measured whether DLPFC-TMS, administered in the delay at the time point when distracters could appear, would modulate posterior regions representing memory targets or distracters. We found that DLPFC-TMS influenced posterior areas only when distracters were present and, critically, that this influence consisted of increased activity in regions representing the current memory targets. DLPFC-TMS did not affect regions representing current distracters. These results provide a new line of causal evidence for a top-down DLPFC-based control mechanism that promotes successful maintenance of relevant information in WM in the presence of distraction.
People act more prosocially when they know they are watched by others, an everyday observation borne out by studies from behavioral economics, social psychology, and cognitive neuroscience. This effect is thought to be mediated by the incentive to improve one's social reputation, a specific and possibly uniquely human motivation that depends on our ability to represent what other people think of us. Here we tested the hypothesis that social reputation effects are selectively impaired in autism, a developmental disorder characterized in part by impairments in reciprocal social interactions but whose underlying cognitive causes remain elusive. When asked to make real charitable donations in the presence or absence of an observer, matched healthy controls donated significantly more in the observer's presence than absence, replicating prior work. By contrast, people with high-functioning autism were not influenced by the presence of an observer at all in this task. However, both groups performed significantly better on a continuous performance task in the presence of an observer, suggesting intact general social facilitation in autism. The results argue that people with autism lack the ability to take into consideration what others think of them and provide further support for specialized neural systems mediating the effects of social reputation.
The six members of the contactin (CNTN) family of neural cell adhesion molecules are involved in the formation and maintenance of the central nervous system (CNS) and have been linked to mental retardation and neuropsychiatric disorders such as autism. Five of the six CNTNs bind to the homologous receptor protein tyrosine phosphatases gamma (PTPRG) and zeta (PTPRZ), but the biological roles of these interactions remain unclear. We report here the cocrystal structure of the carbonic anhydrase-like domain of PTPRZ bound to tandem Ig repeats of CNTN1 and combine these structural data with binding assays to show that PTPRZ binds specifically to CNTN1 expressed at the surface of oligodendrocyte precursor cells. Furthermore, analyses of glial cell populations in wild-type and PTPRZ-deficient mice show that the binding of PTPRZ to CNTN1 expressed at the surface of oligodendrocyte precursor cells inhibits their proliferation and promotes their development into mature oligodendrocytes. Overall, these results implicate the PTPRZ/CNTN1 complex as a previously unknown modulator of oligodendrogenesis.
Dendritic cells (DC) are highly specialized antigen-presenting cells characterized by the ability to prime T-cell responses. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are adult stromal progenitor cells displaying immunomodulatory activities including inhibition of DC maturation in vitro. However, the specific impact of MSC on DC functions, upon in vivo administration, has never been elucidated. Here we show that murine MSC impair Toll-like receptor-4 induced activation of DC resulting in the inhibition of cytokines secretion, down-regulation of molecules involved in the migration to the lymph nodes, antigen presentation to CD4(+) T cells, and cross-presentation to CD8(+) T cells. These effects are associated with the inhibition of phosphorylation of intracellular mitogen-activated protein kinases. Intravenous administration of MSC decreased the number of CCR7 and CD49d1 expressing CFSE-labeled DC in the draining lymph nodes and hindered local antigen priming of DO11.10 ovalbumin-specific CD4(+) T cells. Upon labeling of DC with technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime to follow their in vivo biodistribution, we demonstrated that intravenous injection of MSC blocks, almost instantaneously, the migration of subcutaneously administered ovalbumin-pulsed DC to the draining lymph nodes. These findings indicate that MSC significantly affect DC ability to prime T cells in vivo because of their inability to home to the draining lymph nodes and further confirm MSC potentiality as therapy for immune-mediated diseases.

Schwann cells (SCs), the glial cells of the peripheral nervous system, cover synaptic terminals, allowing them to monitor and modulate neurotransmission. Disruption of glial coverage leads to axon degeneration and synapse loss. The cellular mechanisms that establish and maintain this coverage remain largely unknown. To address this, we labeled single SCs and performed time-lapse imaging experiments. Adult terminal SCs are arranged in static tile patterns, whereas young SCs dynamically intermingle. The mechanism of developmental glial segregation appears to be spatial competition, in which glial-glial and axonal-glial contacts constrain the territory of single SCs, as shown by four types of experiments: (1) laser ablation of single SCs, which led to immediate territory expansion of neighboring SCs; (2) axon removal by transection, resulting in adult SCs intermingling dynamically; (3) axotomy in mutant mice with blocked axon fragmentation in which intermingling was delayed; and (4) activity blockade, which had no immediate effects. In summary, we conclude that glial cells partition synapses by competing for perisynaptic space.
Peripheral nerve injury causes a progressive series of morphological changes in spinal microglia, and extracellular ATP stimulates proliferation of microglia and may be involved in neuropathic pain. We defined the precise expression of P2X7 in the spinal cord following peripheral nerve injury. We found that both P2X7 mRNA and protein increased in the spinal cord, with a peak at 7d after injury. Double labeling studies revealed that cells expressing increased P2X7 mRNA and protein after nerve injury were predominantly microglia in dorsal horn. Pharmacological blockades by intrathecal administration of a P2X7 antagonist (A 438079 hydrochloride) suppressed the development of mechanical hypersensitivity. We present distinct evidence that increases in the number of P2X7 receptors in spinal microglia may play an important role in neuropathic pain.
In addition to blocking dopamine (DA) uptake, cocaine also causes an unconditioned increase in DA release. In drug naive rats, this effect is most robust within the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell. Recent studies have shown that, in rats trained to self-administer cocaine, cocaine may act in the periphery to enhance mesolimbic DA release. Further, these studies have suggested that peripheral cocaine action may also enhance unconditioned DA release. Here, we test if it is necessary for cocaine to enter the brain to evoke unconditioned increases in DA release within the NAc shell. Administration of a cocaine analogue that crosses the blood brain barrier (cocaine HCl) enhances electrically evoked DA release and the number of cocaine-evoked phasic DA release events (i.e., DA transients) within the NAc shell. However, administration of a cocaine analogue that does not cross the blood brain barrier (cocaine MI) does not alter either measure. We therefore conclude that cocaine must act within the central nervous system to evoke unconditioned DA release within the NAc shell.
Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) is the most common and lethal of human primary central nervous system (CNS) tumors. Due to the tumour's intrinsic clinical and molecular heterogeneity, choice of initial treatment, prediction of survival, stratification of patients, prediction and monitoring of response to therapy, represent some of the greatest challenges in the management of GBM patients. Patients, despite optimal surgery, radiation and chemotherapy, still have a median survival of 14-16 months. A reason for this dismal prognosis is because of the relative inaccuracy of current prognostic markers, so far based on clinical or pathological variables. Molecular markers that effectively predict response to therapy and survival outcomes are limited. Consequently, there is a strong need to develop novel and independent markers of prognosis. Ideal biomarkers for solid tumors would serve one or more important functions. Telomeres, guanine-rich tandem DNA repeats of the chromosomal end, provide chromosomal stability, regulates important cellular processes, and seem to be implicated in human carcinogenesis. Recently, telomeres have been shown either to be associated with clinical markers of disease progression or to be independent markers of cancer prognosis in solid tumours, including GBM. Nevertheless, a corresponding comprehensive discussion of these promising developments in brain tumours has not yet been available in the literature. Therefore, here we reviewed studies focused on the assessment of telomeric length in brain tumours with the aim to emphasized those findings indicating a potential clinical role of telomeres in GBM. With the aim to enhance the awareness of the potential clinical role of telomeres' length information in GBM, using a southern blot analysis, telomeric length in excised tumour samples was analyzed. Moreover, an attempt to correlated telomere length with patients' overall survival, was also performed. The findings here reviewed shows some contradictory results, due to different tissues used as controls, but mainly to cellular and molecular heterogeneity in GBMs that drive molecular mechanisms controlling telomere length, included telomerase and Alternative Lengthening of Telomeres (ALT), through multiple mechanisms. However, overall these studies, including our own, are consistent with the hypothesis that GBMs' telomeres were always shorter when compared with Normal Brain Tissue (NBT), and together with higher telomerase activity seem to be associated with malignancy and poor outcome; while tumours with ALT phenotype have longer telomeres, &quot;less malignant&quot; behaviour and better prognosis. We conclude that, although not entirely consistent in the type of telomere alteration, i.e., attrition vs. elongation, and unclear on the underlying mechanisms, multiple studies in brain tumours have shown that telomere dysfunctions are associated with parameters of clinical outcome in patients with GBMs and therefore will be part of novel risk assessment and prognostic modalities for patients with these still dismal disease.
The reduction in synaptic transmission and plasticity in mice lacking the hippocampus-enriched AMPA receptor (AMPAR) auxiliary subunit TARP-8 could be a result of a reduction in AMPAR expression or of the direct action of -8. We generated TARP-84 knock-in mice lacking the C-terminal PDZ ligand. We found that synaptic transmission and AMPARs were reduced in the mutant mice, but extrasynaptic AMPAR expression and long-term potentiation (LTP) were unaltered. Our findings suggest that there are distinct TARP-dependent mechanisms for synaptic transmission and LTP.
Microdialysis sampling of the brain is an analytical technique with numerous applications in neuroscience and the neurointensive care of brain-injured human patients. Even so, implanting microdialysis probes into brain tissue causes a penetration injury that triggers gliosis (the activation and proliferation of glial cells) and ischemia (the interruption of blood flow). Thus, the probe samples injured tissue. Mitigating the effects of the penetration injury might refine the technique. The synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone is a potent anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant substance. We performed microdialysis in the rat brain for 5 days, with and without dexamethasone in the perfusion fluid (10 M for the first 24 h and 2 M thereafter). On the first and fourth day of the perfusion, we performed dopamine no-net-flux measurements. On the fifth day, we sectioned and stained the brain tissue and examined it by fluorescence microscopy. Although dexamethasone profoundly inhibited gliosis and ischemia around the probe tracks it had only modest effects on dopamine no-net-flux results. These findings show that dexamethasone is highly effective at suppressing gliosis and ischemia but is limited in its neuroprotective activity.
Smoking is responsible for over 400,000 premature deaths in the United States every year, making it the leading cause of preventable death. In addition, smoking-related illness leads to billions of dollars in healthcare expenditures and lost productivity annually. The public is increasingly aware that successfully abstaining from smoking at any age can add years to one's life and reduce many of the harmful effects of smoking. Although the majority of smokers desire to quit, only a small fraction of attempts to quit are actually successful. The symptoms associated with nicotine withdrawal are a primary deterrent to cessation and they need to be quelled to avoid early relapse. This review will focus on the neuroadaptations caused by chronic nicotine exposure and discuss how those changes lead to a withdrawal syndrome upon smoking cessation. Besides examining how nicotine usurps the endogenous reward system, we will discuss how the habenula is part of a circuit that plays a critical role in the aversive effects of high nicotine doses and nicotine withdrawal. We will also provide an updated summary of the role of various nicotinic receptor subtypes in the mechanisms of withdrawal. This growing knowledge provides mechanistic insights into current and future smoking cessation therapies.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) function as ligand-gated ion channels activated by the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Gene knockout and antisense studies coupled with pharmacological studies with nAChR agonists have documented a role of 42 nAChR activation in analgesia. ABT-594, for the first time, provided clinical validation to the nAChR agonist pharmacology as a novel mechanism for treatment of pain. However, ABT-594 was poorly tolerated at the efficacious doses, particularly with respect to the side effects of nausea and emesis, which is thought to be mediated by activation of the ganglionic-type (3-containing) nAChRs. An alternate approach is to selectively modulate the 42 nAChR via positive allosteric modulation. Positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) are compounds that do not interact with the agonist binding sites or possess intrinsic activity at the receptor per se, but potentiate the effects of the agonist. NS9283 (also known as A-969933), the first oxadiazole analog, was found to selectively enhance the potency of a range of nAChR agonists at 42, but not 34, nAChRs. Studies reported here, along with the accompanying manuscript [1] collectively point to the conclusion, based on preclinical models, that the analgesic efficacy of clinically well-tolerated doses of ABT-594 in humans can be significantly enhanced by co-administration with the 42 PAM. Additionally, studies in ferrets demonstrate no exaggeration of emetic effect when ABT-594 is co-dosed with NS9283. Cardiovascular studies in anesthetized dogs achieve supra-therapeutic plasma concentrations of ABT-594 (&gt;20-fold) without hemodynamic or electrophysiological effects using the co-administration paradigm.
A promising drug target currently under investigation to improve cognitive deficits in neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders is the neuronal nicotinic alpha7 acetylcholine receptor (7nAChR). Improving cognitive impairments in diseases such as Alzheimer's (AD) and schizophrenia remains a large unmet medical need, and the 7nAChR has many properties that make it an attractive therapeutic target. The 7nAChR is a ligand gated ion channel that has particularly high permeability to Ca(2+) and is expressed in key brain regions involved in cognitive processes (e.g., hippocampus). The 7nAChRs are localized both pre-synaptically, where they can regulate neurotransmitter release, and post-synaptically where they can activate intracellular signaling cascades and influence downstream processes involved in learning and memory. In particular, activation of the 7nAChR with small molecule agonists enhances long-term potentiation, an in vitro model of synaptic plasticity, and improves performance across multiple cognitive domains in rodents, monkeys, and humans. Positive allosteric modulation of the 7nAChR offers an alternate approach to direct agonism that could prove to be particularly beneficial in certain disease populations where smoking nicotine is prevalent (e.g., schizophrenia) and could interfere with an orthosteric agonist approach. The current review focuses on the neurobiology of the 7nAChR, its role in cognition and the development status of some of the most promising molecules advancing for the treatment of cognitive dysfunction in disease.
Tobacco smoking is one of the leading causes of disease and premature death in the United States. Nicotine is considered the major reinforcing component in tobacco smoke responsible for tobacco addiction. Nicotine acts in the brain through the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). The predominant nAChR subtypes in mammalian brain are those containing 4 and 2 subunits. The 42 nAChRs, particularly those located in the mesoaccumbens dopamine pathway, play a key role in regulating the reinforcing properties of nicotine. Considering that twelve mammalian nAChR subunits have been cloned, it is likely that nAChRs containing subunits in addition to, or other than, 4 and 2 also play a role in the tobacco smoking habit. Consistent with this possibility, human genome-wide association studies have shown that genetic variation in the CHRNA5-CHRNA3-CHRNB4 gene cluster located in chromosome region 15q25, which encode the 5, 3 and 4 nAChR subunits, respectively, increases vulnerability to tobacco addiction and smoking-related diseases. Most recently, 5-containing nAChRs located in the habenulo-interpeduncular tract were shown to limit intravenous nicotine self-administration behavior in rats and mice, suggesting that deficits in 5-containing nAChR signaling in the habenulo-interpeduncular tract increases vulnerability to the motivational properties of nicotine. Finally, evidence suggests that nAChRs may also play a prominent role in controlling consumption of addictive drugs other than nicotine, including cocaine, alcohol, opiates and cannabinoids. The aim of the present review is to discuss recent preclinical findings concerning the identity of the nAChR subtypes that regulate self-administration of nicotine and other drugs of abuse.
The human 7 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor gene (CHRNA7) is a candidate gene for schizophrenia and an important drug target for cognitive deficits in the disorder. Activation of the 7*nAChR, results in opening of the channel and entry of mono- and divalent cations, including Ca(2+), that presynaptically participates to neurotransmitter release and postsynaptically to down-stream changes in gene expression. Schizophrenic patients have low levels of 7*nAChR, as measured by binding of the ligand [(125)I]--bungarotoxin (I-BTX). The structure of the gene, CHRNA7, is complex. During evolution, CHRNA7 was partially duplicated as a chimeric gene (CHRFAM7A), which is expressed in the human brain and elsewhere in the body. The association between a 2bp deletion in CHRFAM7A and schizophrenia suggested that this duplicate gene might contribute to cognitive impairment. To examine the putative contribution of CHRFAM7A on receptor function, co-expression of 7 and the duplicate genes was carried out in cell lines and Xenopus oocytes. Expression of the duplicate alone yielded protein expression but no functional receptor and co-expression with 7 caused a significant reduction of the amplitude of the ACh-evoked currents. Reduced current amplitude was not correlated with a reduction of I-BTX binding, suggesting the presence of non-functional (ACh-silent) receptors. This hypothesis is supported by a larger increase of the ACh-evoked current by the allosteric modulator 1-(5-chloro-2,4-dimethoxy-phenyl)-3-(5-methyl-isoxazol-3-yl)-urea (PNU-120596) in cells expressing the duplicate than in the control. These results suggest that CHRFAM7A acts as a dominant negative modulator of CHRNA7 function and is critical for receptor regulation in humans.
Significant advances in human functional brain imaging offer new opportunities for direct observation of the effects of nicotine, novel nicotinic agonists and nicotinic antagonists on human cognitive and behavioral performance. Careful research over the last decade has enabled investigators to explore the role of nicotinic systems on the functional neuroanatomy and neural circuitry of cognitive tasks in domains such as selective attention, working memory, episodic memory, cognitive control, and emotional processing. In addition, recent progress in understanding functional connectivity between brain regions utilized during cognitive and emotional processes offers new opportunities for examining drug effects on network-related activity. This review will critically summarize available nicotinic functional brain imaging studies focusing on the specific cognitive domains of attention, memory, behavioral control, and emotional processing. Generally speaking, nicotine appears to increase task-related activity in non-smokers and deprived smokers, but not active smokers. By contrast, nicotine or nicotinic stimulation decreases the activity of structures associated with the default mode network. These particular patterns of activation and/or deactivation may be useful for early drug development and may be an efficient and cost-effective method of screening potential nicotinic agents. Further studies will have to be done to clarify whether such activity changes correlate with cognitive or affective outcomes that are clinically relevant. The use of functional brain imaging will be a key tool for probing pathologic changes related to brain illness and for nicotinic drug development.
Positive modulation of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) 42 subtype by selective positive allosteric modulator NS-9283 has shown to potentiate the nAChR agonist ABT-594-induced anti-allodynic activity in preclinical neuropathic pain. To determine whether this benefit can be extended beyond neuropathic pain, the present study examined the analgesic activity and adverse effect profile of co-administered NS-9283 and ABT-594 in a variety of preclinical models in rats. The effect of the combined therapy on drug-induced brain activities was also determined using pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging. In carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia, co-administration of NS-9283 (3.5 mol/kg, i.p.) induced a 6-fold leftward shift of the dose-response of ABT-594 (ED(50)=26 vs. 160 nmol/kg, i.p.). In the paw skin incision model of post-operative pain, co-administration of NS-9283 similarly induced a 6-fold leftward shift of ABT-594 (ED(50)=26 vs. 153 nmol/kg). In monoiodo-acetate induced knee joint pain, co-administration of NS-9283 enhanced the potency of ABT-594 by 5-fold (ED(50)=1.0 vs. 4.6 nmol/kg). In pharmacological MRI, co-administration of NS-9283 was shown to lead to a leftward shift of ABT-594 dose-response for cortical activation. ABT-594 induced CNS-related adverse effects were not exacerbated in presence of an efficacious dose of NS-9283 (3.5 mol/kg). Acute challenge of NS-9283 produced no cross sensitization in nicotine-conditioned animals. These results demonstrate that selective positive allosteric modulation at the 42 nAChR potentiates nAChR agonist-induced analgesic activity across neuropathic and nociceptive preclinical pain models without potentiating ABT-594-mediated adverse effects, suggesting that selective positive modulation of 42 nAChR by PAM may represent a novel analgesic approach.



A screening hit was used as the basis for the core structure of a new series of acylglycinamide GlyT-1 inhibitors. Investigation of the SAR around four areas of diversity used facile chemistry to prepare compounds quickly. By focussing on reducing the lipophilicity and improving the aqueous solubility in the series we were able to prepare a compound (17e) with a good level of activity at GlyT-1, selectivity over GlyT-2 and moderate oral bioavailability.
The number of erythroblasts generated ex-vivo under human-erythroid massive-amplification conditions by mononuclear cells from one unit of adult blood (~10(10)) are insufficient for transfusion (~10(12) red cells), emphasizing the need for studies to characterize cellular interactions during culture to increase erythroblast production. To identify the cell populations which generate erythroblasts under human-erythroid-massive-amplification conditions and the factors that limit proliferation, day 10 non-erythroblasts and immature- and mature-erythroblasts were separated by sorting, labelled with carboxyfluorescein-diacetate-succinimidyl-ester and re-cultured either under these conditions (for proliferation, maturation and/or apoptosis/autophagy determinations) or in semisolid media (for progenitor cell determination). Non-erythroblasts contained 54% of the progenitor cells but did not grow under human-erythroid-massive-amplification conditions. Immature-erythroblasts contained 25% of the progenitor cells and generated erythroblasts under human-erythroid-massive-amplification conditions (FI at 48 h=2.571.15). Mature-erythroblasts did not generate colonies and died in human-erythroid-massive-amplification conditions. In sequential sorting/re-culture experiments, immature-erythroblasts retained the ability to generate erythroblasts for 6 days and generated 2-5-fold more cells than the corresponding unfractionated population, suggesting that mature-erythroblasts may limit erythroblast expansion. In co-cultures of carboxyfluorescein-diacetate-succinimidyl-ester-labelled-immature-erythroblasts with mature-erythroblasts at increasing ratios, cell numbers did not increase and proliferation, maturation and apoptotic rates were unchanged. However, Acridine Orange staining (a marker for autophagic death) increased from ~3.2% in cultures with immature-erythroblasts alone to 14-22% in cultures of mature-erythroblasts with and without immature-erythroblasts. In conclusion, these data identify immature-erythroblasts as the cells that generate additional erythroblasts in human-erythroid-massive-amplification cultures and autophagy as the leading cause of death limiting the final cellular output of these cultures.
Oxidative damage of the endothelium disrupts the integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). We have shown before that alcohol exposure increases the levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS; superoxide and hydroxyl radical) and nitric oxide (NO) in brain endothelial cells by activating NADPH oxidase and inducible nitric oxide synthase. We hypothesize that impairment of antioxidant systems, such as a reduction in catalase and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, by ethanol exposure may elevate the levels of ROS/NO in endothelium, resulting in BBB damage. This study examines whether stabilization of antioxidant enzyme activity results in suppression of ROS levels by anti-inflammatory agents. To address this idea, we determined the effects of ethanol on the kinetic profile of SOD and catalase activity and ROS/NO generation in primary human brain endothelial cells (hBECs). We observed an enhanced production of ROS and NO levels due to the metabolism of ethanol in hBECs. Similar increases were found after exposure of hBECs to acetaldehyde, the major metabolite of ethanol. Ethanol simultaneously augmented ROS generation and the activity of antioxidative enzymes. SOD activity was increased for a much longer period of time than catalase activity. A decline in SOD activity and protein levels preceded elevation of oxidant levels. SOD stabilization by the antioxidant and mitochondria-protecting agent acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC) and the anti-inflammatory agent rosiglitazone suppressed ROS levels, with a marginal increase in NO levels. Mitochondrial membrane protein damage and decreased membrane potential after ethanol exposure indicated mitochondrial injury. These changes were prevented by ALC. Our findings suggest the counteracting mechanisms of oxidants and antioxidants during alcohol-induced oxidative stress at the BBB. The presence of enzymatic stabilizers favors the ROS-neutralizing antioxidant redox of the BBB, suggesting an underlying protective mechanism of NO for brain vascular tone and vasodilation.
Tauopathies represent a large class of neurological and movement disorders characterized by abnormal intracellular deposits of the microtubule-associated protein tau. It is now well established that mis-splicing of tau exon 10, causing an imbalance between three-repeat (3R) and four-repeat (4R) tau isoforms, can cause disease; however, the underlying mechanisms affecting tau splicing in neurons remain poorly understood. The small noncoding microRNAs (miRNAs), known for their critical role in posttranscriptional gene expression regulation, are increasingly acknowledged as important regulators of alternative splicing. Here, we identified a number of brain miRNAs, including miR-124, miR-9, miR-132 and miR-137, which regulate 4R:3R-tau ratios in neuronal cells. Analysis of miRNA expression profiles from sporadic progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) patients, a major 4R-tau tauopathy, showed that miR-132 is specifically down-regulated in disease. We demonstrate that miR-132 directly targets the neuronal splicing factor polypyrimidine tract-binding protein 2 (PTBP2), which protein levels were increased in PSP patients. miR-132 overexpression or PTBP2 knockdown similarly affected endogenous 4R:3R-tau ratios in neuronal cells. Finally, we provide evidence that miR-132 is inversely correlated with PTBP2 during post-natal brain development at the time when 4R-tau becomes expressed. Taken together, these results suggest that changes in the miR-132/PTBP2 pathway could contribute to the abnormal splicing of tau exon 10 in the brain, and sheds light into the potential role played by miRNAs in a subset of tauopathies.
In-gel digestion is an attractive route in mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis, which, however, often suffers from a certain amount of sample loss mainly due to insufficient protein digestion and peptide extraction. To address this, herein we establish a partially degradable gel-assisted protein digestion and peptide recovery method by means of a simple replacement of bis-acrylamide (BA) with bis-acrylylcystamine (BAC). Concretely, the protein sample solubilized using high concentrations of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and urea were directly entrapped and immobilized into BAC-crosslinked gel by vacuum-dried gel absorption followed by fixation treatment. After removal of SDS and urea by repeated washing, the proteins were subjected to in-gel digestion and the gel was reductively treated. The tryptic peptides were recovered from the partial degradation of the gel and analyzed afterwards by capillary liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (CapLC-MS/MS). Compared with conventional BA-crosslinked gel method, this new method increased the numbers of identified proteins and unique peptides by 20.2% and 20.4%, respectively. The further statistical analysis demonstrated that the method improved the recovery of tryptic peptides particularly larger and/or hydrophobic peptides, thereby significantly facilitating protein identification. Thus, the newly developed method is a promising alternative for BA-crosslinked gel-based shotgun workflows and has potential application in the related fields of protein chemistry and proteomics.
Midbrain dopamine (MbDA) neurons are functionally heterogeneous and modulate complex functions through precisely organized anatomical groups. MbDA neurons are generated from Wnt1-expressing progenitors located in the ventral mesencephalon (vMes) during embryogenesis. However, it is unclear whether the progenitor pool is partitioned into distinct cohorts based on molecular identity and whether the timing of gene expression uniquely identifies subtypes of MbDA neurons. In this study we show that Wnt1-expressing MbDA progenitors from embryonic day (E)8.5-12.5 have dynamic molecular identities that correlate with specific spatial locations in the vMes. We also tested the hypothesis that the timing of Wnt1 expression in progenitors is related to the distribution of anatomically distinct cohorts of adult MbDA neurons using genetic inducible fate mapping (GIFM). We demonstrate that the Wnt1 lineage contributes to specific cohorts of MbDA neurons during a 7-day epoch and that the contribution to MbDA neurons predominates over other ventral Mb domains. In addition, we show that calbindin-, GIRK2-, and calretinin-expressing MbDA neuron subtypes are derived from Wnt1-expressing progenitors marked over a broad temporal window. Through GIFM and quantitative analysis we demonstrate that the Wnt1 lineage does not undergo progressive lineage restriction, which eliminates a restricted competence model of generating MbDA diversity. Interestingly, we uncover that two significant peaks of Wnt1 lineage contribution to MbDA neurons occur at E9.5 and E11.5. Collectively, our findings delineate the temporal window of MbDA neuron generation and show that lineage and timing predicts the terminal distribution pattern of MbDA neurons.
The intermediate nucleus (InM) in the preoptic area of the human brain, also known as the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area (SDN-POA) and the interstitial nucleus of the anterior hypothalamus-1 (INAH-1) is explored here. We investigated its population of galanin-immunoreactive (Gal-Ir) neurons in relation to sex, age, and gender identity in the postmortem brain of 77 subjects. First we compared the InM volume and number of Gal-Ir neurons of 22 males and 22 females in the course of aging. In a second experiment, we compared for the first time the InM volume and the total and Gal-Ir neuron number in 43 subjects with different gender identities: 14 control males (M), 11 control females (F), 10 male-to-female (MtF) transsexual people, and 5 men who were castrated because of prostate cancer (CAS). In the first experiment we found a sex difference in the younger age group (&lt;45 years of age), i.e., a larger volume and Gal-Ir neuron number in males and an age difference, with a decrease in volume and Gal-Ir neuron number in males &gt; 45 years. In the second experiment the MtF transsexual group presented an intermediate value for the total InM neuron number and volume that did not seem different in males and females. Because the CAS group did not have total neuron numbers that were different from the intact males, the change in adult circulating testosterone levels does not seem to explain the intermediate values in the MtF group. Organizational and activational hormone effects on the InM are discussed.
Liprin- proteins are major protein constituents of synapses and are important for the organization of synaptic vesicles and neurotransmitter receptors on their respective sides of the synapse. Although it is becoming apparent that the single liprin- gene in invertebrates is essential for synapse function, it is not known to what extent the four different liprin- homologs (liprin-1-4) in mammals are involved at synapses. We have designed specific antibodies against each of the four liprin- proteins and investigated their regional and cellular distribution in the brain. Here we show that all four liprin- proteins are present throughout the mature brain but have different regional distributions, which is highlighted by their differential localization in olfactory bulb, hippocampus, and cerebellar cortex. Double-immunofluorescence staining indicates that different liprin- proteins are enriched in different synaptic populations but are also present at nonsynaptic sites. In particular, liprin-2 is preferentially associated with hippocampal mossy fiber endings in the CA3, whereas synapses in the molecular layers of the CA1 and dentate gyrus double-labeled for liprin-3. The localization of liprin-2 and liprin-3 with excitatory synapses was confirmed in cultured primary hippocampal neurons. Liprin-4, which poorly co-distributed with presynaptic markers in hippocampus, instead strongly co-localized with VGLUT1 in the cerebellar molecular layer, suggesting its presence in parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses. Finally, staining of cultured glial cells indicated that liprin-1 and liprin-3 are also associated with astrocytes. We conclude that liprin- family proteins might perform independent and specialized synaptic and nonsynaptic functions in different regions of the brain.
The goal of this work was to identify some of the principles underlying chromatophore growth and development in the European cuttlefish, Sepia officinalis. One set of experiments used a regeneration model to follow the re-growth of black chromatophores for 30 days following excision of a small piece of fin tissue. A separate set of experiments tracked and analyzed the addition of new fin chromatophores during a month of normal, undisturbed growth. We also followed the development of individual chromatophores from their initial appearance to full maturation to determine whether their color type was fixed. Based on the results of these studies, we propose five guiding principles for chromatophore growth and maturation. (1) The three chromatophore cell types--black, reddish-brown and yellow--are present at different spatial frequencies in the cuttlefish fin. (2) During normal growth, new chromatophores are inserted at a higher spatial frequency than existing (control) chromatophores of the same color type. (3) In regenerating tissue, new black chromatophores are initially added at low spatial frequencies. As regeneration continues, new black chromatophores appear at increasing spatial frequencies until they are inserted at a spatial frequency higher than that observed in control tissue, similar to the way in which chromatophores were observed to be added in normally growing tissue. (4) All chromatophores first appear as pale orange cells and slowly darken into their respective color types without passing through intermediate color stages. (5) New black chromatophores undergo a doubling in size as they mature, while reddish-brown and yellow chromatophores do not grow at all after they are inserted in the dermis.
The goldfish Mauthner (M-) cells, a bilateral pair of reticulospinal neurons, initiate the auditory evoked escape behavior of teleosts. In an open field the fish reliably turns away from the sound source. This implies that the M-cells are capable of a decision-making process that requires the two cells to receive differential directional inputs. Recent studies have indicated that the lateral line (LL) system is necessary in the initial directionality of the escape. This information is thought to be transmitted to the M-cell by the anterior branch of the lateral line nerve (aLLn), which has a shorter conduction time then the posterior branch. This study is the first attempt to characterize the inputs from the aLLn to the M-cell. M-cell intracellular responses to aLLn stimulation indicate a fast monosynaptic input (0.800.03 ms) that has a small amplitude averaging 5.850.42 mV. This input is bilateral and has a significantly longer latency and smaller amplitude in the contralateral M-cell. Superimposed on the evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) is a shunting inhibition with a delay of 1 ms, which is characteristic of other sensory inputs to the M-cell. Pharmacological manipulation and 50 Hz stimulation reveal a component of the evoked EPSP that is electrotonic, a property favoring speed of transmission. In addition, this input is localized to the lateral dendrite proximal to the inputs from the inner ear. The short latency of these inputs and their proximity to the posterior eighth nerve afferents indicate a crucial role for the aLLn in influencing the excitability and directionality of the M-cell.
Goldfish (Carassius auratus) escape responses to sudden auditory stimuli are mediated by a pair of reticulospinal neurons, the Mauthner (M-) cells, which integrate mechanosensory inputs from the inner ear and the lateral line (LL) to initiate a fast directional response away from the aversive stimulus. This behavior is context dependent; when near an obstruction the fish may rather turn towards the sound to avoid hitting the object. Mechanisms underlying this directionality remain unknown. Here we investigate the contribution of the LL system to auditory evoked escapes and provide behavioral evidence that it transmits stimulus - and environmental-dependent information that determines the initial response direction of the escape. We quantified escape latency, probability and directionality following abrupt sound stimuli before and after removal of the entire LL with 0.03 mmol l(-1) cobalt chloride (CoCl(2)), 0.002% gentamicin or selective posterior LL nerve (pLLn) transection. CoCl(2) significantly increased escape onset latency without affecting probability and reduced open field directionality from 77% to chance, 52%. This effect on directionality was also observed with gentamicin. Transection of the pLLn had no effect on directionality, indicating the anterior LL nerve (aLLn) afferents are more likely to transmit directional information to the M-cell. When the fish were near a wall, the error rate was quadrupled by both CoCl(2) and pLLn transection. Visual elimination had no influence on directionality unless combined with LL elimination.

Since the description of the association between neuromyelitis optica (Devic's disease) and aquaporin 4 IgG antibody (NMO-IgG), the search for this antibody has been considered a highly recommended laboratory test when centromedullary multisegmental lesions are observed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Such MRI lesions have not been confined to acute NMO myelitis because other infectious and post-infectious disorders may display a similar lesional pattern. However, NMO-IgG has not been currently searched and associated with these myelitides. The objective of this study is to report an infectious myelitis that tested positive for NMO-IgG and comment on the implications of this finding. We report the presence of NMO-IgG in one patient exhibiting centromedullary multisegmental lesions who presented Paracoccidioides brasiliensis myelitis.

Cortical neurons receive individual as well as synchronized synaptic events. The latter may drive a neuron into an active state where a persistently depolarized membrane potential lasts for several seconds. Visual inspection and manual detection of these persistent events is labor-intensive. We built a set of scripts in MATLAB with the goal of having a core software package for the systematic and objective detection of persistent neural activity out of large time-series data. This analysis software includes multiple steps, from a pre-processing stage, event detection, user-interactive detection reviewing, and filtering/graphing. Analysis scripts and brief usage information are freely available upon request.
Proteases are involved in a multitude of cellular processes that are critical for the maintenance of normal cell function, and their aberrant activity has been linked to a large number of diseases. Calcium-dependent proteases (calpains) are found in cells distributed throughout the brain, and their activity contributes to normal and abnormal brain function. A limitation with common approaches to studying the activity of calpain is the requirement for homogenization of tissue samples, which limits the ability to resolve the spatial location of protease activity, and which also introduces the possibility of interaction with endogenous inhibitors that would have otherwise been kept spatially separated in vivo. We present a simple method for the investigation of protease activity that provides better spatial resolution than alternatives, and that alleviates the concern of protein interactions in homogenate. We examined calcium-dependent proteolysis in tissue sections by observation of a fluorescence signal produced by fragmentation of a casein substrate embedded in an agarose gel solution that covered the section. This technique preserved the anatomical characteristics of the tissue, and provided spatial resolution sufficient for ready examination of protease activity in cells and in blood vessels within a single tissue section.
Recent studies have observed the ubiquity of phase-amplitude coupling (PAC) phenomenon in human and animal brain recordings. While various methods were performed to quantify it, a rigorous analytical definition of PAC is lacking. This paper yields an analytical definition and accordingly offers theoretical insights into some of the current methods. A direct PAC estimator based on the given definition is presented and shown theoretically to be superior to some of the previous methods such as general linear model (GLM) estimator. It is also shown that the proposed PAC estimator is equivalent to GLM estimator when a constant term is removed from its formulation. The validity of the derivations is demonstrated with simulated data of varying noise levels and local field potentials recorded from the subthalamic nucleus of a Parkinson's disease patient.
We report a head-mountable CMOS camera for recording rapid neuronal activity in freely moving rodents using fluorescent activity reporters. This small, lightweight camera is capable of detecting small changes in light intensity (0.2% I/I) at 500fps. The camera has a resolution of 3232, sensitivity of 0.62V/lxs, conversion gain of 0.52V/e(-) and well capacity of 2.1Me(-). The camera, containing intensity offset subtraction circuitry within the imaging chip, is part of a miniaturized epi-fluorescent microscope and represents a first generation, mobile scientific-grade, physiology imaging camera.
The serotonin 5-HT(3) receptor is the only ligand-gated ion channel activated by serotonin and is expressed by GABAergic interneurons in many brain regions, including the cortex, amygdala and hippocampus. Furthermore, 5-HT(3) receptors are expressed by glutamatergic Cajal-Retzius cells in the cerebral cortex. We used 5-HT(3A)/enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) transgenic mice to show that 5-HT(3) receptors are also ubiquitously expressed by glutamatergic granule cells in the cerebellum during the first three postnatal weeks. Using whole-cell patch clamp recordings, we show that local application of either serotonin or the selective 5-HT(3) receptor agonist SR57227A to granule cells results in a small inward current, demonstrating a post- and/or extrasynaptic localisation of the 5-HT(3) receptors. Functional 5-HT(3) receptors were also observed presynaptically at the parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapse. Pharmacological block using the selective 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist tropisetron induced a reduction in the frequency of miniature synaptic events recorded from Purkinje cells. Paired-pulse stimulation of parallel fibres on whole-cell voltage clamped Purkinje cells from 1-week-old mice did not yet show synaptic plasticity. In the presence of tropisetron, the parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapse showed paired-pulse depression. Taken together, these results show that functional 5-HT(3) receptors are present during early postnatal development in the cerebellum, where they modulate synaptic plasticity.
Stratum oriens-lacunosum moleculare interneurons (O-LM INs) represent the major element of the hippocampal feedback inhibitory circuit, which provides inhibition to the distal dendritic sites of CA1 pyramidal neurons. Although the intrinsic conductance profile and the properties of glutamatergic transmission to O-LM INs have become a subject of intense investigation, far less is known about the properties of the inhibitory synapses formed onto these cells. Here, we used whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in acute mouse hippocampal slices to study the properties and plasticity of GABAergic inhibitory synapses onto O-LM INs. Surprisingly, we found that the kinetics of inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were slower in mature synapses (P26-40) due to the synaptic incorporation of the 5 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor (a5-GABA(A)R). Moreover, this age-dependent synaptic expression of a5-GABA(A)Rs was directly associated with the emergence of long-term potentiation at IN inhibitory synapses. Finally, the slower time course of IPSCs observed in O-LM INs of mature animals had a profound effect on IN excitability by significantly delaying its spike firing. Our data suggest that GABAergic synapses onto O-LM INs undergo significant modifications during postnatal maturation. The developmental switch in IPSC properties and plasticity is controlled by the synaptic incorporation of the a5-GABA(A)R subunit and may represent a potential mechanism for the age-dependent modifications in the inhibitory control of the hippocampal feedback inhibitory circuit.
Pyramidal cells express various GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) subtypes, possibly to match inputs from functionally distinct interneurons targeting specific subcellular domains. Postsynaptic anchoring of GABA(A)Rs is ensured by a complex interplay between the scaffolding protein gephyrin, neuroligin-2 and collybistin. Direct interactions between these proteins and GABA(A)R subunits might contribute to synapse-specific distribution of GABA(A)R subtypes. In addition, the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex, mainly localized at perisomatic synapses, regulates GABA(A)R postsynaptic clustering at these sites. Here, we investigated how the functional and molecular organization of GABAergic synapses in CA1 pyramidal neurons is altered in mice lacking the GABA(A)R 2 subunit (2-KO). We report a marked, layer-specific loss of postsynaptic gephyrin and neuroligin-2 clusters, without changes in GABAergic presynaptic terminals. Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings in slices from 2-KO mice show a 40% decrease in GABAergic mIPSC frequency, with unchanged amplitude and kinetics. Applying low/high concentrations of zolpidem to discriminate between 1- and 2/3-GABA(A)Rs demonstrates that residual mIPSCs in 2-KO mice are mediated by 1-GABA(A)Rs. Immunofluorescence analysis reveals maintenance of 1-GABA(A)R and neuroligin-2 clusters, but not gephyrin clusters, in perisomatic synapses of mutant mice, along with a complete loss of these three markers on the axon initial segment. This striking subcellular difference correlates with the preservation of dystrophin clusters, colocalized with neuroligin-2 and 1-GABA(A)Rs on pyramidal cell bodies of mutant mice. Dystrophin was not detected on the axon initial segment in either genotype. Collectively, these findings reveal synapse-specific anchoring of GABA(A)Rs at postsynaptic sites and suggest that the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex contributes to stabilize 1-GABA(A)R and neuroligin-2, but not gephyrin, in perisomatic postsynaptic densities.
Depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI) is a prevailing form of endocannabinoid signalling. However, several discrepancies have arisen regarding the roles played by the two major brain endocannabinoids, 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and anandamide, in mediating DSI. Here we studied endocannabinoid signalling in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), where several components of the endocannabinoid system have been identified, but endocannabinoid signalling remains largely unexplored. In voltage clamp recordings from mouse PFC pyramidal neurons, depolarizing steps significantly suppressed IPSCs induced by application of the cholinergic agonist carbachol. DSI in PFC neurons was abolished by extra- or intracellular application of tetrahydrolipstatin (THL), an inhibitor of the 2-AG synthesis enzyme diacylglycerol lipase (DAGL). Moreover, DSI was enhanced by inhibiting 2-AG degradation, but was unaffected by inhibiting anandamide degradation. THL, however, may affect other enzymes of lipid metabolism and does not selectively target the  (DAGL) or  (DAGL) isoforms of DAGL. Therefore, we studied DSI in the PFC of DAGL(-/-) and DAGL(-/-) mice generated via insertional mutagenesis by gene-trapping with retroviral vectors. Gene trapping strongly reduced DAGL or DAGL mRNA levels in a locus-specific manner. In DAGL(-/-) mice cortical levels of 2-AG were significantly decreased and DSI was completely abolished, whereas DAGL deficiency did not alter cortical 2-AG levels or DSI. Importantly, cortical levels of anandamide were not significantly affected in DAGL(-/-) or DAGL(-/-) mice. The chronic decrease of 2-AG levels in DAGL(-/-) mice did not globally alter inhibitory transmission or the response of cannabinoid-sensitive synapses to cannabinoid receptor stimulation, although it altered some intrinsic membrane properties. Finally, we found that repetitive action potential firing of PFC pyramidal neurons suppressed synaptic inhibition in a DAGL-dependent manner. These results show that DSI is a prominent form of endocannabinoid signalling in PFC circuits. Moreover, the close agreement between our pharmacological and genetic studies indicates that 2-AG synthesized by postsynaptic DAGL mediates DSI in PFC neurons.
This article was motivated by the 2010 SfN session on Undergraduate Curricula and Graduate Expectations. To prepare for my role as panelist, I examined the background of Washington University Neuroscience Ph.D. students. Current students with a declared thesis lab were queried, and records from past graduates were reviewed to determine the characteristics that contribute to graduate success. This pilot research suggests that no specific undergraduate curriculum element or quantitative undergraduate achievement metric predicts success at the graduate level, measured by graduate GPA, years to degree, or number of publications. I extrapolate these results to suggest that students from non-typical backgrounds should not be deterred from applying to Ph.D. programs in Neuroscience. I speculate that less tangible traits may be most important for graduate success. These include critical thinking skills and independent research experience.

The Golgi staining method has a long history in the field of neuroscience, and remains an important teaching tool in undergraduate laboratory settings. The ability to visualize a cell with all the processes makes the method useful when teaching introductory neuroscience courses. However, the amount of time required for post-stain tissue processing makes it a difficult procedure to use when teaching laboratory classes. We detail a modified Golgi-Cox method with a short incubation period and minimal post-stain processing that produces well differentiated cells, making it ideal for use in an undergraduate laboratory.
While the pedagogical benefits of incorporating inquiry driven labs into an undergraduate curriculum are well established, often the prohibitive costs of providing equipment for such labs limits the types of experiences that can be offered. For example, the lab portion of Advanced Neuroscience at Centenary College of Louisiana consists of a semester-long research project developed by the students. Frequently, these junior- and senior-level students generate interesting research questions that must be culled or scaled back simply due to a lack of appropriate equipment. In the most recent iteration of the class, the students wanted to examine analgesia using the tail flick test, a measure of spinal nociception. In this test a rodent subject is restrained; its tail is exposed to a heat source; and the latency to flick its tail away from the noxious stimuli is recorded. As commercial devices were far beyond the lab budget, we sought to develop an inexpensive tail flick analgesia meter that was easy to use and generated reliable data. The prototype device was tested by students in the above-mentioned class and was found to consistently produce reliable data in agreement with the literature. Here we present plans for a tail flick analgesia meter that can be constructed for $50-75, roughly 100 times cheaper than commercial devices.
Teaching of interdisciplinary fields of study poses a challenge to course organizers. Often interdisciplinary courses are taught by different departments, and hence, at best provide a multidisciplinary overview. Scientific progress in neuroscience, for instance, is thought to depend heavily on interdisciplinary investigations. If students are only taught to think in particular disciplines without integrating these into a coherent framework to study the nervous system, it is unlikely that they will truly develop interdisciplinary thinking. Yet, it is this interdisciplinary thinking that is at the heart of a holistic understanding of the brain. It is, therefore, important to develop a conceptual framework in which students can be taught interdisciplinary, rather than multidisciplinary, thinking. It is also important to recognize that not all teaching needs to be interdisciplinary, but that the type of curriculum design is dependent on the aims of the course, as well as on the background of the students. A rational curriculum design that aligns learning and teaching objectives is, therefore, advocated.
Sleep is often a topic of avid interest to college students, yet it is one that does not yield itself well to hands-on, interactive learning modules. Supplementing classroom learning with interactive &quot;real world&quot; laboratory activities provides students with a deeper understanding of behavior and its neural control. The project described here was designed to supplement the teaching of EEGs, sleep and circadian rhythms and involved students in the empirical process from hypothesizing about the factors that affect sleep, to personal data collection, data analysis and writing in the style of a peer-reviewed manuscript. Students enrolled in Behavioral Neuroscience at Connecticut College were provided with a home-based personal EEG monitor used to collect sleep data in their natural sleep setting. Participants recorded sleep data with the use of the ZEO Personal Sleep Coach system and completed a nightly sleep journal questionnaire for seven nights. The ZEO system uses EEG patterns to define sleep stages including wakefulness, light, deep and REM sleep. The journal included questions about factors known to affect sleep such as stress, caffeine, academic activity, exercise and alcohol. A class data set was compiled and used by students to perform univariate correlations examining the relationships between ZEO variables and sleep journal variables. The data set allowed students to choose specific variables to investigate, analyze and write a peer-reviewed style manuscript. Significant class-wide correlations were found between specific sleep stages and behavioral variables suggesting that the ZEO system is sophisticated yet inexpensive enough to be used as an effective tool in the classroom setting. Overall student feedback on the exercise was positive with many students indicating that it significantly enhanced their understanding of sleep architecture and made them keenly aware of the factors that affect quality of sleep.
Most neuroscience faculty share the common goal of maximizing student understanding of course material and increasing student excitement for the discipline. There is evidence that educational practices such as service learning, which is characterized by the fact that it both addresses a need in the community and meets key learning objectives in a course, can help accomplish these goals in an impactful way. This article describes the implementation of a service learning project at an assisted-living facility in an upper-level neuropsychology course. In addition, results of student self-evaluations indicate that students self-report higher understanding of course content and skills associated with working with people with disabilities. Lastly, a discussion of some benefits of implementation is provided along with advice to others wishing to implement a similar service learning project. This advice will help ensure a positive experience for students in the course as well as for residents at the assisted-living facility.
Although neuroscience students may learn to write in a generic fashion through university writing courses, they receive little training in writing in their field. Here I describe a course that was created at the request of a Neuroscience Department with the intent to teach neuroscience students how to write well in their discipline. I explain the purpose for creating the &quot;Writing in Neuroscience&quot; course and offer a brief overview of the course curriculum, including pertinent pedagogical outcomes for such a course. I describe in depth the major assignment for the course, the literature review, and provide examples of paper titles that students wrote to fulfill the assignment. I briefly describe other relevant course assignments. I evaluate the course and include an overview of who should teach such a course, what support might be helpful, and what can be learned from formative assessment of the course. Using these insights can help others determine whether such a course is a good fit for them.
While both federal agencies and professional associations emphasize the importance of neuroscience outreach, this goal seldom reaches the undergraduate neuroscience classroom. However, incorporating outreach into undergraduate neuroscience classes is an efficient means to reach not only future scientists, but also the future practitioners (K-12 teachers, social service workers, etc.) with whom neuroscientists hope to communicate. It also provides a vehicle for faculty members to engage in outreach activities that are typically un- or under-rewarded in faculty reviews. In this article, a Neuroscience Community Outreach Project (NCOP) is described. The project has been used in three offerings of a Cognitive Neuroscience course at a small liberal arts college, shared and applied at a large state university, and presented at a regional Society for Neuroscience meeting as an example of outreach opportunities for faculty. The NCOP assignment is a student-driven, modular activity that can be easily incorporated into existing neuroscience course frameworks. The assignment builds on student interests and connections in the community, providing a way for faculty at institutions without formal outreach programs to incorporate neuroscience outreach into the classroom and connect students to online resources. Several sample student projects are described across three broad domains (K-12 outreach, presentations to social service organizations, and media / popular press presentations). The article ends with a set of suggestions addressing common faculty concerns about incorporating community outreach into the undergraduate neuroscience classroom.
To determine whether participation in a neuroscience course reduced neuroscience anxiety, a modified version of the Science Anxiety Scale was administered to students at the beginning and end of an introductory course. Neuroscience anxiety scores were significantly reduced at the end of the course and correlated with higher final grades. Reduced neuroscience anxiety did not correlate with reduced science anxiety, suggesting that neuroscience anxiety is a distinct subtype of anxiety.
The successful model of the Neuroscience Program at Concordia College is used as a source of illustrative examples in a presentation of strategies to foster synergy between neuroscience programs and chemistry departments. Chemistry is an increasing voice in the dialog of modern neuroscience. To be well-prepared to engage in this dialog, students must have strong chemistry training and be comfortable applying it to situations in neuroscience. The strategies presented here are designed to stimulate thought and discussion in the undergraduate neuroscience education community. Hopefully this will lead to greater interaction between chemistry and neuroscience at the undergraduate level in other institutions.
Learning of complex motor skills requires learning of component movements as well as the sequential structure of their order and timing. Using a Serial Interception Sequence Learning (SISL) task, participants learned a sequence of precisely timed interception responses through training with a repeating sequence. Following initial implicit learning of the repeating sequence, functional MRI data were collected during performance of that known sequence and compared with activity evoked during novel sequences of actions, novel timing patterns, or both. Reduced activity was observed during the practiced sequence in a distributed bilateral network including extrastriate occipital, parietal, and premotor cortical regions. These reductions in evoked activity likely reflect improved efficiency in visuospatial processing, spatio-motor integration, motor planning, and motor execution for the trained sequence, which is likely supported by nondeclarative skill learning. In addition, the practiced sequence evoked increased activity in the left ventral striatum and medial prefrontal cortex, while the posterior cingulate was more active during periods of better performance. Many prior studies of perceptual-motor skill learning have found increased activity in motor areas of the frontal cortex (e.g., motor and premotor cortex, SMA) and striatal areas (e.g., the putamen). The change in activity observed here (i.e., decreased activity across a cortical network) may reflect skill learning that is predominantly expressed through more accurate performance rather than decreased reaction time.
Rats are widely used in experimental neurobiological research, and rat brain atlases are important resources for identifying brain regions in the context of experimental microsurgery, tissue sampling, and neuroimaging, as well as comparison of findings across experiments. Currently, most available rat brain atlases are constructed from histological material derived from single specimens, and provide two-dimensional or three-dimensional (3D) outlines of diverse brain regions and fiber tracts. Important limitations of such atlases are that they represent individual specimens, and that finer details of tissue architecture are lacking. Access to more detailed 3D brain atlases representative of a population of animals is needed. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is a unique neuroimaging modality that provides sensitive information about orientation structure in tissues, and is widely applied in basic and clinical neuroscience investigations. To facilitate analysis and assignment of location in rat brain neuroimaging investigations, we have developed a population-averaged three-dimensional DTI atlas of the normal adult Sprague Dawley rat brain. The atlas is constructed from high resolution ex vivo DTI images, which were nonlinearly warped into a population-averaged in vivo brain template. The atlas currently comprises a selection of manually delineated brain regions, the caudate-putamen complex, globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, substantia nigra, external capsule, corpus callosum, internal capsule, cerebral peduncle, fimbria of the hippocampus, fornix, anterior commisure, optic tract, and stria terminalis. The atlas is freely distributed and potentially useful for several purposes, including automated and manual delineation of rat brain structural and functional imaging data.
The effects of saffron ethanolic extract and its constituent, safranal, on the acquisition and expression of morphine-induced place preference (CPP) in male Swiss Webster mice (20-25 g) were investigated in the present study. An unbiased place conditioning method was applied for assessment of morphine reward properties. The saffron extract and safranal were administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) during (acquisition) or after induction (expression) of morphine CPP. In a pilot study, the extract and safranal were alone administered to the animals to assess if they have any reward properties. Subcutaneous (s.c.) of morphine (4 and 8 mg kg(-1)) and extract (50 mg kg(-1); i.p.) induced CPP. Extract (10, 50 and 100 mg kg(-1); i.p.) reduced the acquisition and expression of morphine CPP. The same results were obtained when safranal (1, 5 and 10 mg kg(-1), i.p.) was used. It may be concluded that both ethanolic saffron extract and safranal can inhibit the acquisition and expression of morphine-induced CPP in the mice.
Maintenance of life among higher vertebrates depends on permanent, rhythmic and coordinated activity of respiratory muscles. Fundamental to our understanding of breathing is an appreciation for the neural components involved in the generation, maintenance and modulation of respiratory rhythm. Multidisciplinary studies have revealed important perspectives about the spinal and supraspinal components contributing to breathing, but a complete understanding of respiratory pathways and their interconnectivity remains unknown. Definition of these pathways is essential for understanding how respiratory processes may be affected by injury or disease. The present review highlights our current understanding of the distribution of spinal motoneurons and interneurons involved in mammalian respiratory activity and how they are affected by injury or disease in the central nervous system.
Because tongue position and stiffness help insure that the pharyngeal airspace is sufficiently open during breathing, the respiration-related behavior of the tongue muscles has been studied in detail, particularly during the last two decades. Although eight different muscles act upon the mammal tongue, we know very little about the respiration-related control of the majority of these, and almost nothing about how they work together as a complex electro-mechanical system. Other significant gaps include how hypoglossal motoneuron axons find their appropriate muscle target during development, whether the biophysical properties of hypoglossal motoneurons driving different muscles are the same, and how afferent information from cardiorespiratory reflex systems is transmitted from major brainstem integrating centers to the hypoglossal motoneuron pool. This brief review outlines some of these issues, with the hope that this will spur research in the field, ultimately leading to an improved understanding of the respiration-related control of the mammalian tongue musculature.
In this review, we consider the discharge of human respiratory motoneurones during involuntary and voluntary contractions and what this reveals about the neural control of respiratory muscles. Motoneurone discharge is the final output of neural drive and can be recorded in humans during a range of experimental protocols. However, human studies have limitations and recordings can only be made indirectly from motoneurones. Animal data allows us to hypothesise how neural drive to these motoneurones is organised in humans. We propose that premotoneuronal networks, perhaps in the spinal cord (i.e. 'spinal distribution networks'), sculpt descending drive from multiple sources. This would determine the differential pattern of activation across inspiratory muscles, preserve the neural and mechanical coupling when voluntary breaths are taken and allow for different patterns of activation in non-respiratory contractions.

Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) and the structurally similar chemicals polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) disrupt the function of multiple endocrine systems. PCBs and PBDEs disrupt the secretion of vasopressin (VP) from the hypothalamus during osmotic activation. Since the peripheral and central vasopressinergic axes are critical for osmotic and cardiovascular regulation, we examined whether perinatal PBDE exposure could impact these functions during physiological activation. Rats were perinatally dosed with a commercial PBDE mixture, DE-71. Dams were given 0 (corn oil control), 1.7 (low dose) or 30.6 mg/kg/day (high dose) in corn oil from gestational day (GD) 6 through postnatal day (PND) 21 by oral gavage. In the male offspring exposed to high dose PBDE plasma thyroxine and triiodothyronine levels were reduced at PND 21 and recovered to control levels by PND 60 when thyroid stimulating hormone levels were elevated. At 14-18 months of age, cardiovascular responses were measured in four groups of rats: Normal (Oil, normosmotic condition), Hyper (Oil, hyperosmotic stress), Hyper PBDE low (1.7 mg/kg/day DE-71 perinatally, hyperosmotic stress), and Hyper PBDE high (30.6 mg/kg/day DE-71 perinatally, hyperosmotic stress). Systolic blood pressure (BP), diastolic BP, and heart rate (HR) were determined using tail cuff sphygmomanometry and normalized to pretreatment values (baseline) measured under basal conditions. Hyperosmotic treatment yielded significant changes in systolic BP in PBDE exposed rats only. Hyper PBDE low and high dose rats showed 36.1 and 64.7% greater systolic BP responses at 3h post hyperosmotic injection relative to pretreatment baseline, respectively. No treatment effects were measured for diastolic BP and HR. Hyper and Hyper PBDE rats showed increased mean plasma osmolality values by 45 min after injection relative to normosmotic controls. In contrast to Hyper rats, Hyper PBDE (high) rats showed a further increase in mean plasma osmolality at 3h (358.312.4mOsm/L) relative to 45 min post hyperosmotic injection (325.111.4mOsm/L). Impaired osmoregulation in PBDE-treated animals could not be attributed to decreased levels of plasma vasopressin. Our findings suggest that developmental exposure to PBDEs may disrupt cardiovascular reactivity and osmoregulatory responses to physiological activation in late adulthood.
Adenosine is an important modulator of neuronal survival and differentiation in the CNS. Our previous work showed that nucleoside transporters (NTs) are present in cultures of chick retinal cells, but little is known about the mechanisms regulating adenosine transport in these cultures. Our aim in the present work was to study the participation of the adenosine metabolism as well as the ERK pathway on adenosine uptake in different types of retinal cultures (mixed and purified glial cultures). Kinetic analysis in both cultures revealed that the uptake reached equilibrium after 30 min and presented two components. Incubation of cultures with S-(p-nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine (NBTI) or dipyridamole, different inhibitors of equilibrative nucleoside transporters (ENTs), produced a significant and concentration-dependent uptake reduction in both cultures. However, while dipyridamole presented similar maximal inhibitory effects in both cultures (although in different concentrations), the inhibition by NBTI was smaller in glial cultures than in mixed cultures, suggesting the presence of different transporters. Moreover, pre-incubation of [(3)H]-adenosine with adenosine deaminase (ADA) or adenosine kinase (ADK) inhibition with iodotubercidin promoted significant uptake inhibition in both cultures, indicating that the uptake is predominantly for adenosine and not inosine, and that taken up adenosine is preferentially directed to the synthesis of adenine nucleotides. In both cultures, the MEK inhibitors PD98059 or UO126, but not the inactive analog U0124, induced a significant and concentration-dependent uptake decrease. We have not observed any change in adenosine metabolism induced by MEK inhibitors, suggesting that this pathway is mediating a direct effect on NTs. Our results show the expression of different NTs in retinal cells in culture and that the activity of these transporters can be regulated by the ERK pathway or metabolic enzymes such as ADK which are then potential targets for regulation of Ado levels in normal or pathological conditions.
Opioids such as morphine numb pain but often concomitantly induce itch. Liu etal. (2011) now separate the sensation of itch from opioid-induced analgesia, showing that in a subset of spinal neurons, morphine directly induces itch by signaling through a heteromer of opioid- and itch-mediating G protein-coupled receptors.
This communication demonstrates that yeast cell wall particles (YCWPs) are a promising class of nature-inspired biocompatible microcarriers for the delivery of amphipathic/lipophilic imaging reporters. When a paramagnetic MRI agent is loaded, the longitudinal relaxivity per particle at 0.5 T is the highest ever reported for Gd-based systems.
Amyloid- peptide ending at the 42nd residue (A42) is implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Small compounds that exhibit selective lowering effects on A42 production are termed -secretase modulators (GSMs) and are deemed as promising therapeutic agents against AD, although the molecular target as well as the mechanism of action remains controversial. Here, we show that a phenylpiperidine-type compound GSM-1 directly targets the transmembrane domain (TMD) 1 of presenilin 1 (PS1) by photoaffinity labelling experiments combined with limited digestion. Binding of GSM-1 affected the structure of the initial substrate binding and the catalytic sites of the -secretase, thereby decreasing production of A42, possibly by enhancing its conversion to A38. These data indicate an allosteric action of GSM-1 by directly binding to the TMD1 of PS1, pinpointing the target structure of the phenylpiperidine-type GSMs.
Estimations of time and number share many similarities in both non-humans and man. The primary focus of this review is on the development of time and number sense across infancy and childhood, and neuropsychological findings as they relate to time and number discrimination in infants and adults. Discussion of these findings is couched within a mode-control model of timing and counting which assumes time and number share a common magnitude representation system. A basic sense of time and number likely serves as the foundation for advanced numerical and temporal competence, and aspects of higher cognition-this will be discussed as it relates to typical childhood, and certain developmental disorders, including autism spectrum disorder. Directions for future research in the developmental neuroscience of time and number (NEUTIN) will also be highlighted.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is associated with extracellular deposition of proteolytic fragments of amyloid precursor protein (APP). Although mutations in APP and proteases that mediate its processing are known to result in familial, early onset forms of AD, the mechanisms underlying the more common sporadic, yet genetically complex forms of the disease are still unclear. Four single-nucleotide polymorphisms within the ubiquilin-1 gene have been shown to be genetically associated with AD, implicating its gene product in the pathogenesis of late onset AD. However, genetic linkage between ubiquilin-1 and AD has not been confirmed in studies examining different populations. Here we show that regardless of genotype, ubiquilin-1 protein levels are significantly decreased in late onset AD patient brains, suggesting that diminished ubiquilin function may be a common denominator in AD progression. Our interrogation of putative ubiquilin-1 activities based on sequence similarities to proteins involved in cellular quality control showed that ubiquilin-1 can be biochemically defined as a bona fide molecular chaperone and that this activity is capable of preventing the aggregation of amyloid precursor protein both in vitro and in live neurons. Furthermore, we show that reduced activity of ubiquilin-1 results in augmented production of pathogenic amyloid precursor protein fragments as well as increased neuronal death. Our results support the notion that ubiquilin-1 chaperone activity is necessary to regulate the production of APP and its fragments and that diminished ubiquilin-1 levels may contribute to AD pathogenesis.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) fascinates cell biologists because it is proteolytically processed to generate multiple peptides, including amyloid-, which is implicated in Alzheimer's disease. However, a large body of data also shows that the extracellular soluble fragment of APP produced by -secretase (sAPP) is neuroprotective and promotes neuronal outgrowth. A study by Demars and colleagues appearing in the previous issue provides data showing that sAPP is a general growth factor for stem cells of multiple lineages. Thus, APP seems to play complex and disparate roles in neurodegeneration and neuroprotection.
The establishment of the HSC pool in vertebrates depends not only on the formation and the propagation of these stem cells but also on their proper trafficking among the defined hematopoietic organs. However, the physiologic mechanisms that regulate HSC mobilization remain elusive. Through analysis of the zebrafish cmyb mutant cmyb(hkz3), we show that the suppression of cMyb function abrogates larval and adult hematopoiesis, with concomitant accumulation of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) in their birthplace, the ventral wall of the dorsal aorta (VDA). Cell tracking and time-lapse recording reveal that the accumulation of HSPCs in cmyb(hkz3) mutants is caused by the impairment of HSPC egression from the VDA. Further analysis demonstrates that the HSPC migratory defects in cmyb(hkz3) mutants are at least partly because of adversely elevated levels of chemokine stromal cell-derived factor 1a (Sdf1a). Our study reveals that cMyb plays a hitherto unidentified role in dictating physiologic HSPC migration by modulating Sdf1a signaling.

Regionally and functionally diverse types of astrocytes exist throughout the central nervous system and participate in nearly every aspect of normal and abnormal neural function. Therefore, human astrocyte subtypes are useful tools for understanding brain function, modulating disease processes and promoting neural regeneration. Here we describe a protocol for directed differentiation and maintenance of functional astroglia from human pluripotent stem cells in a chemically defined system. Human stem cells are first differentiated into neuroepithelial cells with or without exogenous patterning molecules (days 0-21). Regular dissociation of the neuroepithelial clusters in suspension, and in the presence of mitogens, permits generation of astroglial subtypes over a long-term expansion (days 21-90). Finally, the astroglial progenitors are either amplified for an extended time or differentiated into functional astrocytes on removal of mitogens and the addition of ciliary neurotrophic factor (days &gt;90). This method generates robust populations of functionally diversified astrocytes with high efficiency.
Manual acupuncture (MA) has presented analgesic activity against neuropathic pain in patients and animal models, yet a series of questions remain: Is MA effectiveness dependent of acupoint selection or combination? Is it equally efficient when treatment starts on the initial (acute) or sub-chronic phase of spinal nerve ligation (SNL)-induced neuropathy? Is MA effect related to the release of endogenous opioids? Does MA produce similar effects to gabapentin? To answer these questions rats submitted to the L5/L6 SNL injury were treated with unilateral MA (ST36 (Zusanli), SP6 (Sanyingjiao) or ST36+SP6 acupoint stimulation); or with gabapentin (30 mg/kg i.p., used as positive control). Both acupoints have been demonstrated to present analgesic activity and are used in clinical practice and basic science research. In addition, we investigated the influence of naloxone (1 mg/kg i.p., a nonselective opioid receptor antagonist) on MA treatment and also the effect of unilateral ST36+SP6 MA treatment beginning acutely (5 days) or sub-chronically (14 days) after SNL. Our results demonstrate that single or combined unilateral stimulation was able to reduce mechanical hypersensitivity with treatment beginning in both acute and sub-chronic phases of SNL-induced neuropathy; MA effect was blocked by naloxone, and finally; SP6+ST36 MA presented similar effect to gabapentin (30 mg/kg). In conclusion, our results demonstrate, for the first time, that unilateral MA (ST36, SP6 or ST36+SP6) reduces hypersensitivity induced by the SNL with effect dependent of the opioid system and comparable with the one obtained with gabapentin (used as positive control).
Ghrelin and ghrelin receptor agonist have effects on central neurons in many locations, including the hypothalamus, caudal brain stem, and spinal cord. However, descriptions of the distributions of ghrelin-like immunoreactivity in the CNS in published work are inconsistent. We have used three well-characterized anti-ghrelin antibodies, an antibody to the unacylated form of ghrelin, and a ghrelin peptide assay in rats, mice, ghrelin knockout mice, and ghrelin receptor reporter mice to re-evaluate ghrelin presence in the rodent CNS. The stomach served as a positive control. All antibodies were effective in revealing gastric endocrine cells. However, no specific staining could be found in the brain or spinal cord. Concentrations of antibody 10 to 30 times those effective in the stomach bound to nerve cells in rat and mouse brain, but this binding was not reduced by absorbing concentrations of ghrelin peptide, or by use of ghrelin gene knockout mice. Concentrations of ghrelin-like peptide, detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in extracts of hypothalamus, were 1% of gastric concentrations. Ghrelin receptor-expressing neurons had no adjacent ghrelin immunoreactive terminals. It is concluded that there are insignificant amounts of authentic ghrelin in neurons in the mouse or rat CNS and that ghrelin receptor-expressing neurons do not receive synaptic inputs from ghrelin-immunoreactive nerve terminals in these species.
The purpose of this study was to investigate white matter asymmetry across the whole brain and evaluate the effects of age and sex on white matter asymmetry in a large sample of healthy adults. A total of 857 normal subjects (310 females and 547 males, mean age=56.19.9 years, age range=24.9-84.8 years) were included in this study. With use of tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS), we investigated white matter fractional anisotropy (FA) asymmetry and evaluated the effects of age and sex on white matter FA asymmetry. The voxel-wise analysis showed a large number of white matter FA asymmetries including leftward asymmetry of the arcuate fasciculus and cingulum. The effects of age and sex on white matter FA asymmetry were minor compared to overall FA asymmetries. Small regions showed a significant effect of age or sex, due to the large sample, but this may not be relevant in practice. There was no significant interaction between age and sex. The results of our study demonstrate white matter asymmetry in healthy adults and suggest that white matter asymmetry is relatively stable during aging and not much different between males and females.
Chronic neck pain is one of the most common musculoskeletal disorders in the US. Although biomechanical and clinical studies have implicated the facet joint as a primary source of neck pain, specific cellular mechanisms still remain speculative. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether a mediator (activating transcription factor; 4ATF4) of the integrated stress response (ISR) is involved in facet-mediated pain. Holtzman rats underwent C6/C7 facet joint loading that produces either painful (n=16) or nonpainful (n=8) responses. A sham group (n=9) was also included as surgical controls. Behavioral sensitivity was measured and the C6 dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) were harvested on day 7 to evaluate the total and neuronal ATF4 expression. In separate groups, an intra-articular ketorolac injection was administered either immediately (D0 ketorolac) or 1 day (D1 ketorolac) after painful facet joint loading. Allodynia was measured at days 1 and 7 after injury to assess the effects on behavioral responses. ATF4 and BiP (an indicator of ISR activation) were separately quantified at day 7. Facet joint loading sufficient to elicit behavioral hypersensitivity produced a threefold increase in total and neuronal ATF4 expression in the DRG. After ketorolac treatment at the time of injury, ATF4 expression was significantly (P&lt;0.01) reduced despite not producing any attenuation of behavioral responses. Interestingly, ketorolac treatment at day 1 significantly (P&lt;0.001) alleviated behavioral sensitivity at day 7, but did not modify ATF4 expression. BiP expression was unchanged after either intervention time. Results suggest that ATF4-dependent activation of the ISR does not directly contribute to persistent pain, but it may sensitize neurons responsible for pain initiation. These behavioral and immunohistochemical findings imply that facet-mediated pain may be sustained through other pathways of the ISR.
Recent studies show that the non-opioid peptides, galanin (GAL) and orexin (OX), are similar to the opioid enkephalin (ENK) in being stimulated by dietary fat and also in enhancing the consumption of a high-fat diet (HFD). This suggests that, when an HFD is provided, these non-opioids may stimulate the opioid system to promote excess consumption of this diet. Using single- and double-labeling immunohistochemistry, the present study sought to identify possible neuroanatomical substrates for this close relationship. Focusing on the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), and particularly its anterior (aPVN), middle (mPVN) and posterior (pPVN) parts, the experiments examined whether GAL itself or the receptors for GAL and OX are stimulated by an HFD in the same areas and possibly the same neurons as ENK. Compared to animals fed a standard chow diet, rats consuming an HFD exhibited an increased density of medial parvocellular neurons immunoreactive (IR) for GAL in the mPVN and aPVN and for ENK in the mPVN and pPVN, distinguishing the mPVN as an area where both peptides were affected. While showing little evidence for GAL and ENK colocalization with a chow diet, double-labeling studies in HFD-fed rats revealed significant colocalization specifically in medial parvocellular neurons of the mPVN. Immediately posterior to this site, further analyses revealed a similar relationship between the OX 2 receptor (OX(2)R) and ENK in HFD-treated animals. While increasing the density of neurons immunoreactive for OX(2)R as well as for the GAL 1 receptor but not OX 1 receptor, HFD consumption increased the colocalization only of OX(2)R and ENK, specifically in the medial parvocellular neurons of the pPVN. These changes in HFD-fed rats, showing GAL and OX(2)R to colocalize with ENK exclusively in neurons of the medial parvocellular mPVN and pPVN, respectively, suggest possible neural substrates through which the non-opioid peptides may functionally interact with ENK when exposed to an HFD.
Many motivated and addiction-related behaviors are sustained by activity of both dopamine D1- and D2-type receptors (D1Rs and D2Rs) as well as CB1 receptors (CB1Rs) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Here, we use in vitro whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology to describe an endocannabinoid (eCB)-dopamine receptor interaction in adult rat NAc core neurons. D1R and D2R agonists in combination enhanced firing, with no effect of a D1R or D2R agonist alone. This D1R+D2R-mediated firing increase required CB1Rs, since it was prevented by the CB1R antagonists AM251 and Rimonabant. The D1R+D2R firing increase also required phospholipase C (PLC), the major synthesis pathway for the eCB 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and one of several pathways for anandamide. Further, inhibition of 2-AG hydrolysis with the monoglyceride lipase (MGL) inhibitor JZL184 allowed subthreshold levels of D1R+D2R receptor agonists to enhance firing, while inhibition of anandamide hydrolysis with the fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitors URB597 or AM3506 did not. Filling the postsynaptic neuron with 2-AG enabled subthreshold D1R+D2R agonists to increase firing, and the 2AG+D1R+D2R increase in firing was prevented by a CB1R antagonist. Also, the metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) blocker MPEP prevented the ability of JZL184 to promote subthreshold D1R+D2R enhancement of firing, while the 2-AG+D1R+D2R increase in firing was not prevented by the mGluR5 blocker, suggesting that mGluR5s acted upstream of 2-AG production. Thus, our results taken together are consistent with the hypothesis that NAc core eCBs mediate dopamine receptor (DAR) enhancement of firing, perhaps providing a cellular mechanism underlying the central role of NAc core D1Rs, D2Rs, CB1Rs, and mGluR5s during many drug-seeking behaviors.
In this study, we investigated the effects of 2,2'-dithienyl diselenide (DTDS), an organoselenium compound, against seizures induced by kainic acid (KA) in rats. Rats were pretreated with DTDS (50 or 100 mg/kg) by oral route 1 h before KA injection (10 mg/kg, intraperitoneal). Our results showed that DTDS (100 mg/kg) was effective in increasing latency for the onset of the first clonic seizure episode induced by KA, as well as in decreasing the appearance of seizures and the Racine's score. DTDS also caused a decrease in the excitatory electroencephalographic (EEG) changes, resulting from KA exposure in hippocampus and cerebral cortex of rats. Besides, elevated reactive species (RS) and carbonyl protein levels and Na(+), K(+)-ATPase activity in hippocampus of rats treated with KA were ameliorated by DTDS (50 and 100 mg/kg). Lastly, as evidenced by Cresyl-Violet stain, DTDS (100 mg/kg) elicited a protective effect against KA-induced neurodegeneration in rat hippocampus 7 days after KA injection. In conclusion, the present study showed that DTDS attenuated KA-induced status epilepticus in rats and the subsequent hippocampal damage.
In the present study, the sources of thalamic and cortical inputs of thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) neurons were examined by investigating the responses of the TRN neurons to electrical stimulation of different sites in the thalamus and the cortex of the rat. The recurrent excitation of the corticothalamic system that is triggered by electrical stimulation was eliminated by ablating the auditory cortex and by temporarily inactivating the medial geniculate body (MGB), when studying the sources of thalamic and cortical inputs, respectively. Single TRN neurons responded to electrical stimulation of 50-100 A of the thalamus over a large area (dorsoventrally 1.2-2.4 mm and mediolaterally 1.0-2.3 mm, n=9). Four of 16 auditory TRN neurons responded to electrical stimulation of the lateral geniculate nucleus. The TRN neurons responded to cortical stimulation over a rostrocaudal distance of 2.60.5 mm (range: 1.5-3.5 mm, n=24) of the auditory cortex. Visual or auditory TRN neurons also responded to electrical stimulation in the auditory or visual cortices, respectively. The present study revealed that each TRN neuron received a wide range of inputs from both ascending thalamic and descending cortical projections. The projection could be cross-modal. Having a strong and lasting inhibition on the thalamus, the TRN neurons are likely to be involved in adjusting global states relating to awareness and attention in the thalamocortical system.
Peripheral neuropathy is a common and major complication of diabetes, the underlying mechanisms of which are not fully understood. Using a mouse model of type II diabetes, the present study investigated the role of phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) in peripheral neuropathy. BKS.Cg-m+/+Leprdb/J (db/db) mice were treated with sildenafil, a specific inhibitor of PDE5, at doses of 2 and 10 mg/kg or saline. Levels of PDE5 and morphometric parameters in sciatic nerve tissue as well as the motor and sensory function were measured in these mice. In diabetic mice, PDE5 expression in sciatic nerve tissue was significantly upregulated, whereas the myelin sheath thickness, myelin basic protein (MBP), and subcutaneous nerve fibers were significantly reduced. Treatment with sildenafil significantly improved neurological function, assayed by motor and sensory conducting velocities and thermal and mechanical noxious stimuli, concomitantly with increases in myelin sheath thickness, MBP levels, and subcutaneous nerve fibers. In vitro, hyperglycemia upregulated PDE5 in Schwann cells and reduced Schwann cell proliferation, migration, and expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Blockage of PDE5 with sildenafil increased cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) and completely abolished the effect of hyperglycemia on Schwann cells. Sildenafil upregulated cGMP-dependent protein kinase G I (PKGI), whereas inhibition of PKGI with a PKG inhibitor, KT5823, suppressed the inhibitory effect of sildenafil on Schwann cells. These data indicate that hyperglycemia substantially upregulates PDE5 expression and that the cGMP/PKG signaling pathway activated by sildenafil mediates the beneficial effects of sildenafil on diabetic peripheral neuropathy.
Neurotransmitter release regulation is highly heterogeneous across the brain. The fundamental units of release, individual boutons, are difficult to access and poorly understood. Here we directly activated single boutons on mechanically isolated nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) neurons to record unitary synaptic events under voltage clamp. By scanning the cell surface with a stimulating pipette, we located unique sites that generated evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (eEPSCs) or evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents (eIPSCs) events. Stimulus-response relations had abrupt thresholds for all-or-none synaptic events consistent with unitary responses. Thus, irrespective of shock intensity, focal stimulation selectively evoked either eEPSCs or eIPSCs from single retained synaptic boutons and never recruited other synapses. Evoked EPSCs were rarely encountered. Our studies, thus, focused primarily on the more common GABA release. At most locations, shocks often failed to release GABA even at low frequencies (0.075 Hz), and eIPSCs succeeded only on average 2.70.7 successful IPSCs per 10 shocks. Activation of eIPSCs decreased spontaneous IPSCs in the same neurons. The GABA(A) receptor antagonist gabazine (3 M) reversibly blocked eIPSCs as did tetrodotoxin (TTX) (300 nM). The initial low rate of successful eIPSCs decreased further in a use-dependent manner at 0.5 Hz stimulation-depressing 70% in 2 min. The selective GABA(B) receptor antagonist 3-[[(3,4-Dichlorophenyl)methyl]amino]propyl] diethoxymethyl)phosphinic acid (CGP 52432) (5 M) had three actions: tripling the initial release rate, slowing the use-dependent decline without changing amplitudes, and blocking the shock-related decrease in spontaneous IPSCs. The results suggest strong, surprisingly long-lasting, negative feedback by GABA(B) receptors within single GABA terminals that determine release probability even in isolated terminals.
Many synapses within the central nervous system are sensitive to ethanol. Although alcohol is known to affect the probability of neurotransmitter release in specific brain regions, the effects of alcohol on the underlying synaptic vesicle fusion machinery have been little studied. To identify a potential pathway by which ethanol can regulate neurotransmitter release, we investigated the effects of acute alcohol exposure (1-24 h) on the expression of the gene encoding synaptotagmin 1 (Syt1), a synaptic protein that binds calcium to directly trigger vesicle fusion. Syt1 was identified in a microarray screen as a gene that may be sensitive to alcohol and heat shock. We found that Syt1 mRNA and protein expression are rapidly and robustly up-regulated by ethanol in mouse cortical neurons, and that the distribution of Syt1 protein along neuronal processes is also altered. Syt1 mRNA up-regulation is dependent on the activation of the transcription factor heat shock factor 1 (HSF1). The transfection of a constitutively active Hsf1 construct into neurons stimulates Syt1 transcription, while transfection of Hsf1 small interfering RNA (siRNA) or a constitutively inactive Hsf1 construct into neurons attenuates the induction of Syt1 by ethanol. This suggests that the activation of HSF1 can induce Syt1 expression and that this may be a mechanism by which alcohol regulates neurotransmitter release during brief exposures. Further analysis revealed that a subset of the genes encoding the core synaptic vesicle fusion (soluble NSF (N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor) attachment protein receptor; SNARE) proteins share this property of induction by ethanol, suggesting that alcohol may trigger a specific coordinated adaptation in synaptic function. This molecular mechanism could explain some of the changes in synaptic function that occur following alcohol administration and may be an important step in the process of neuronal adaptation to alcohol.
Amyloid beta (A) has been proposed to play a central and causative role in the development of Alzheimer's disease. A(25-35), the neurotoxic domain of the full-length A, causes learning and memory impairments in rodents. The present study investigated the effects of a single bilateral i.c.v. infusion of pre-aggregated A(25-35) (30 nmol/rat) on animals' performance in the open field, and on arginine metabolic enzymes and metabolites in the CA1, CA2/3, and dentate gyrus (DG) sub-regions of the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC) at the time point of 6-8 days after A infusion. A(25-35) rats displayed reduced exploratory activity in the open field relative to the A(35-25) (reverse peptide; 30 nmol) rats. A(25-35) resulted in significantly decreased nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity and endothelial NOS protein expression, but increased arginase activity, arginase II protein expression, and ornithine and putrescine levels, in hippocampal CA2/3. There were increased glutamate and putrescine levels in the DG, but decreased agmatine levels in the DG and PFC, in the A(25-35) group relative to the A(35-25) one. Cluster analyses were performed to determine if the nine related neurochemical variables (arginine, citrulline, ornithine, agmatine, putrescine, spermidine, spemine, glutamate, and GABA) formed distinct groups, and whether it changed as a function of A(25-35). There were substantially different clusters between the two groups in the hippocampus and PFC. These results demonstrate that A(25-35) alters arginine metabolism, which further supports the prominent role of arginine and its metabolites in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis.
Maternal stress during gestation in humans and experimental animals can result in emotional and cognitive dysfunction in the offspring. To facilitate our understanding of the underlying neuronal changes induced by prenatal stress (PNS), the dendritic and synaptic development was analyzed in three-dimensionally reconstructed Golgi-impregnated neurons in the hippocampal formation of offspring from pregnant dams which were stressed from day 15-20 by varied stressors. The analysis was focused on prepubertal rats and on the comparison of stress vulnerabilities in male and female offspring. In the hippocampal CA1 region PNS increased spine density on pyramidal neurons only in males, which thereby reached the levels observed in control females. On granular neurons of the dentate gyrus, PNS altered spine-density, dendritic length and dendritic complexity in opposite directions in males and females. In the CA3 area, PNS resulted in shorter and less complex dendrites in both sexes compared with unstressed controls. Another aim was to assess whether neonatal environmental interventions, such as handling (H) during the first 10 postnatal days, can reverse PNS-induced neuronal changes. We show here for the first time that H can &quot;reverse&quot; or prevent PNS-induced changes in spine density and dendritic length and complexity in a sex-, region- and dendrite-specific manner. These findings indicate that the sex-specific changes of neuronal and synaptic features in the hippocampal formation may represent a neuronal substrate of the stress-induced behavioral alterations and that these changes can be partly &quot;normalized&quot; by neonatal interventions.
Nucleotide-activated P2X channels and P2Y metabotropic receptors participate in nociceptive signaling. Agonist availability is regulated by nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase-1 (NTPDase1), -2, -3, and -8, a family of enzymes that hydrolyze extracellular ATP to generate ADP (a P2Y agonist) and AMP. They provide a major source of extracellular AMP, the substrate for adenosine production by ecto-5'-nucleotidase (NT5E), and thereby regulate adenosine (P1) receptor signaling. NTPDases vary in their efficiency of tri- and diphosphate hydrolysis; therefore, which family members are expressed impacts nucleotide availability and half-life. This study employed enzyme activity histochemistry to examine the distribution of ATPase activity and immunohistochemistry for NTPDase1, 2, 3, and 8 in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal cord. Nucleotidase activity was robust in spinal dorsal horn, confirming that nociceptive pathways are a major site of nucleotide transmission. In DRG, extensive staining revealed ATPase activity in a subset of neurons and in non-neuronal cells. mRNA for NTPDase1-3, but not NTPDase8, was detected in lumbar DRG and spinal cord. Immunoreactivity for NTPDase3 closely matched the distribution of ATPase activity, labeling DRG central projections in the dorsal root and superficial dorsal horn, as well as intrinsic spinal neurons concentrated in lamina II. In DRG, NTPDase3 co-localized with markers of nociceptors and with NT5E. In addition, labeling of a subset of larger-diameter neurons in DRG was consistent with intense staining of Meissner corpuscle afferents in glabrous skin. Merkel cells and terminal Schwann cells of hair follicle afferents were also labeled, but the axons themselves were negative. We propose that NTPDase3 is a key regulator of nociceptive signaling that also makes an unexpected contribution to innocuous tactile sensation.
Efficient encoding of sensory information can be implemented by heterogeneous response properties of neurons within sensory pathways. In the auditory system, neurons in the main auditory midbrain nucleus, the inferior colliculus (IC), show heterogeneous response properties to various types of acoustic stimuli including behaviorally relevant sounds. The receptive fields of these neurons, and their spatial organization, may reveal mechanisms that underlie response heterogeneity in the IC. The mouse is becoming an increasingly popular system for auditory studies and although some studies have examined spectral characteristics in the IC, most of these have been conducted in anesthetized animals. There were two goals of this study. The first goal was to examine the frequency representation of awake mouse IC in fine spatial resolution. The second goal was to determine whether there is a spatial organization of excitatory frequency tuning curves in the IC of awake mice. We achieved these goals by histologically reconstructing locations of single and multiunit recordings throughout the IC in a mouse strain with normal hearing (CBA/CaJ). We found that the tonotopic progression is discontinuous in mouse IC, and we found that there is no clear spatial organization of frequency tuning curve types. Rather, there is heterogeneity of receptive fields in the bulk of the IC such that frequency tuning characteristics and hence the structure of excitatory and inhibitory inputs does not depend on location in the IC. This heterogeneity likely provides a mechanism for efficient encoding of auditory stimuli throughout the extent of the mouse IC.
Metabotropic GABA type B (GABA(B)) receptors are abundantly expressed in the rat spinal dorsal horn. Activation of GABA(B) receptors by exogenous agonists inhibits synaptic transmission, which is believed to underlie the GABA(B) receptor-mediated analgesia. However, little effort has been made to test whether endogenous GABA might also mediate inhibition by acting on GABA(B) receptors. In this study, whole-cell recording techniques were employed to study the effect of endogenous GABA on GABA(B) receptors in substantia gelatinosa (SG) neurons in adult rat spinal cord slices. In current-clamp mode, blockade of GABA(B) receptors by their selective antagonist 3-[[[(3,4-dichlorophenyl)methyl]amino]propyl] (diethoxy-methyl) phosphinic acid (CGP 52432) facilitated presynaptic stimulation-induced action potential discharge and increased amplitude of postsynaptic potentials (PSPs), meaning a GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition of SG neuron excitability. In voltage-clamp mode, blockade of GABA(B) receptors increased the amplitude of evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (eEPSCs) and decreased paired-pulse ratio, indicating a presynaptic CGP 52432 action. Primary afferent A or C fiber-evoked EPSCs were also facilitated by CGP 52432 application. Amplitudes of evoked GABAergic and glycinergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (eIPSCs) were enhanced by GABA(B) receptor blockade. The facilitation of amplitude persisted in the presence of a specific GABA transporter 1 (GAT-1) blocker, tiagabine, or GAT-2/3 blocker SNAP5114. However, blockade of GABA(B) receptors had no effect on action potential-independent miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs), miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs), or membrane conductance. Taken together, these results suggest that endogenous GABA modulates evoked synaptic transmission in SG neurons by acting on GABA(B) receptors. This GABA(B) receptor-mediated homeostatic regulation of neuronal excitability and neurotransmitter release might contribute to modulation of nociception in spinal dorsal horn.
Early-life exposure to bacterial endotoxins, such as lipopolysaccharides (LPS), can provide neuroprotection against experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) during adulthood, possibly through altering the responsiveness of the immune system. Here, we show that exposure of LPS to neonatal rats resulted in a sustained elevation of corticosterone level in urine when compared with saline-treated rats, and that the high level of urine corticosterone was maintained during the progression of EAE (P&lt;0.05). This high level of production of corticosterone plays an important role in altering the predisposition to EAE-induced neuroinflammation, as a positive correlation occurred between the concentration of urine corticosterone and the increased apoptotic CD4(+) T cells from the peripheral blood. LPS-treated rats also showed a reduced number of CD3(+) T cells in the spinal cord. The splenic antigen-presenting cells showed a reduced expression of MHC II during EAE development in LPS-exposed rats when compared with rats exposed to the saline-treated control. Together, these findings suggest that treating neonatal rats with LPS evokes a sustained elevation of glucocorticoid, which may suppress immune response during EAE by increasing apoptosis of CD4(+) T cells and reducing the expression of MHC II on antigen-presenting cells. Therefore, exposing neonates to bacterial endotoxin may further be developed as an immunization strategy to prevent human multiple sclerosis and other inflammatory brain diseases.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) antagonism has long been proposed as a chronic pain treatment. In 2010, the FDA suspended clinical trials using tanezumab, a humanized monoclonal anti-NGF antibody, to treat osteoarthritis due to worsening joint damage in 16 patients. Increased physical activity in the absence of acute pain which normally prevents self-harm was purported as a potential cause. Such an adverse effect is consistent with an extension of tanezumab's primary mechanism of action by decreasing pain sensitivity below baseline levels. In animal inflammatory pain models, NGF antagonism decreases intraepidermal nerve fiber (IENF) density and attenuates increases in expression of nociception-related proteins, such as calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P (SP). Little is known of the effects of NGF antagonism in noninflamed animals and the hypoalgesia that ensues. In the current study, we immunized rats with NGF or cytochrome C (cytC) and examined (1) nocifensive behaviors with thermal latencies, mechanical thresholds, the hot plate test, and the tail flick test, (2) IENF density, and (3) expression of CGRP, SP, voltage-gated sodium channel 1.8 (Nav1.8), and glutaminase in subpopulations of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons separated by size and isolectin B4 (IB4) labeling. Rats with high anti-NGF titers had delayed responses on the hot plate test but no other behavioral abnormalities. Delayed hot plate responses correlated with lower IENF density. CGRP and SP expression was decreased principally in medium (400-800 m(2)) and small neurons (&lt;400 m(2)), respectively, regardless of IB4 labeling. Expression of Nav1.8 was only decreased in small and medium IB4 negative neurons. NGF immunization appears to result in a more profound antagonism of NGF than tanezumab therapy, but we hypothesize that decreases in IENF density and nociception-related protein expression are potential mechanisms for tanezumab-induced hypoalgesia.
Sulfatide (ST) is a sphingolipid with an important role in the central nervous system as a major component of the myelin sheath. ST contains a structurally variable ceramide moiety, with a fatty acid substituent of varying carbon-chain length and double-bond number. Hydroxylation at the -2 carbon position of the fatty acid is found in half the population of ST molecules. Recent genetic studies of fatty acid 2-hydroxylase (FA2H) indicate that these hydroxylated sphingolipids influence myelin sheath stability. However, their distribution is unknown. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization imaging mass spectrometry (MALDI-IMS) enables the analysis of distinct distributions of individual ST molecular species in tissue section. We examined human cerebral cortex tissue sections with MALDI-IMS, identifying and characterizing the distributions of 14 ST species. The distribution analysis reveals that the composition ratios of non-hydroxylated/hydroxylated STs are clearly reversed at the border between white and gray matter; the hydroxylated group is the dominant ST species in the gray matter. These results suggest that hydroxylated STs are highly expressed in oligodendrocytes in gray matter and might form stable myelin sheaths. As a clinical application, we analyzed a brain with Alzheimer's disease (AD) as a representative neurodegenerative disease. Although previous studies of AD pathology have reported that the amount of total ST is decreased in the cerebral cortex, as far as the compositional distributions of STs are concerned, AD brains were similar to those in control brains. In conclusion, we suggest that MALDI-IMS is a useful tool for analysis of the distributions of various STs and this application might provide novel insight in the clinical study of demyelinating diseases.
Albeit there is no doubt that histamine and its H(3) receptors participate in several aspects of learning and memory, such as memory consolidation, nothing is known about their potential involvement in memory reconsolidation. On the basis of previous reports of pro-cognitive effects of histamine H(3) receptor inverse agonists (which augment histamine release), we investigated to what extent the most representative of them, thioperamide, is able to facilitate reconsolidation of a contextually-conditioned fear memory in C57BL/6J mice. We also examined the effects of thioperamide on the stark disruptive effect that the non-competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) typically exerts on both reconsolidation and consolidation. Post-training systemic injections (i.p.) of thioperamide facilitated consolidation at 10 and 20 mg/kg and reversed amnesia induced by an i.p. injection of 0.12 mg/kg dizocilpine at 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg. Importantly, none of the five thioperamide doses (2.5, 5, 10, 20 and 30 mg/kg) given right after reactivation (reexposure to the context in which training took place 48 h earlier) affected reconsolidation, whereas all similarly given doses of dizocilpine (0.03, 0.06 and 0.12 mg/kg) disrupted it more or less equally. By contrast, thioperamide was able to unambiguously reverse the deficit in reconsolidation induced by 0.12 mg/kg dizocilpine at 10 and 20, but not 5 mg/kg. This is the first demonstration of an involvement of the interactive articulation between histamine and NMDA receptors in the mechanisms of memory reconsolidation, which seems to be indifferent to an increase of brain histamine per se. The results suggest a qualitatively different participation of histaminergic signalling in the mechanisms of reconsolidation and consolidation. The precise circuits within which these interactions take place are yet to be identified.
The lateral habenular complex (LHb) is a key signal integrator between limbic forebrain regions and monoaminergic hindbrain nuclei. Major projections of LHb neurons target the dopaminergic ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the serotonergic dorsal (DR) and median raphe nuclei (MnR). Both monoaminergic neurotransmitter systems play a central role in reward processing and reward-related decision-making. Glutamatergic LHb efferents terminate on GABAergic neurons in the VTA, the rostromedial tegmental nucleus (RMTg), and the raphe nuclei, thereby suppressing monoamine release when required by the present behavioral context. Recent studies suggest that the LHb exerts a strong tonic inhibition on monoamine release when no reward is to be obtained. It is yet unknown whether this inhibition is the result of a continuous external activation by other brain areas, or if it is intrinsically generated by LHb projection neurons. To analyze whether the tonic inhibition may be the result of a hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotid-gated cation channel (HCN)-mediated pacemaker activity of LHb projection neurons, we combined retrograde tracing in rats with in situ hybridization of HCN1 to HCN4 mRNAs. In fact, close to all LHb neurons targeting VTA or raphe nuclei are equipped with HCN subunit mRNAs. While HCN1 mRNA is scarce, most neurons display strong expression of HCN2 to HCN4 mRNAs, in line with the potential formation of heteromeric channels. These results are supported by quantitative PCR and immunocytochemical analyses. Thus, our data suggest that the tonic inhibition of monoamine release is intrinsically generated in LHb projection neurons and that their activity may only be modulated by synaptic inputs to the LHb.
Multisensory processing involving visual and auditory inputs is modulated by their relative temporal offsets. In order to assess whether multisensory integration alters the activation timing of primary visual and auditory cortices as a function of the temporal offsets between auditory and visual stimuli, a task was designed in which subjects had to judge the perceptual simultaneity of the onset of visual stimuli and brief acoustic tones. These were presented repeatedly with three different inter-stimulus intervals that were chosen to meet three perceptual conditions: (1) physical synchrony perceived as synchrony by subjects (SYNC); (2) physical asynchrony perceived as asynchrony (ASYNC); (3) physical asynchrony perceived ambiguously (AMB, i.e. 50% perceived as synchrony, 50% as asynchrony). Magnetoencephalographic activity was recorded during crossmodal sessions and unimodal control sessions. The activation of primary visual and auditory cortices peaked at a longer latency for the crossmodal conditions as compared to the unimodal conditions. Moreover, the latency in the auditory cortex was longer in the SYNC than in the ASYNC condition, whereas in the visual cortex the latency in the AMB condition was longer than in the ASYNC condition. These findings suggest that multisensory processing affects temporal dynamics already in primary cortices, that such activity can differ regionally and can be sensitive to the temporal offsets of multisensory inputs. In addition, in the AMB condition the conscious awareness of asynchrony might be associated to a later activation of the primary auditory cortex.
Whether dopamine (DA) release is compensated during the presymptomatic phase of Parkinson's disease (PD) is controversial. Here we use in vivo voltammetry in the parkinsonian rat and an electrical stimulation protocol established to fatigue nigrostriatal dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons to investigate the plasticity of DA-release mechanisms. Amplitudes of evoked voltammetric signals recorded in intact rat striata decreased with repetitive, high-frequency stimulation (60 Hz, every 5 min/60 min). Strikingly, DA levels were maintained during an identical &quot;fatiguing&quot; protocol in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned (&lt;40% denervation) striata in the absence of enhanced DA synthesis. In contrast, more severely lesioned striata (&gt;55% denervation) also appeared to sustain DA release, however, this was demonstrated in the presence of enhanced synthesis. Sustained release was replicated in intact animals after irreversible blockade of the dopamine transporter (DAT) via RTI-76, implicating neuronal uptake as a trigger. We further demonstrate through kinetic analysis that lesions and compromised uptake target a &quot;long-term&quot; (time constant of minutes) presynaptic depression, which underlies the maintenance of release. Taken together, our findings identify a denervation-induced maintenance of DA release that was independent of activated synthesis and driven by altered uptake. This novel neuroadaptation may contribute to early preclinical normalization of function and help resolve discrepant findings regarding compensatory changes in DA release during progression of the parkinsonian state.
In the present study, the ERP (event-related brain potentials) technique was used to investigate how accentuation influences the semantic short-term memory representations during on-line speech processing, and how this accentuation effect interacts with the distance of accentuation in the speech signal. Chinese spoken sentences were used as stimuli. The sentences included two critical words: Noun1 and Noun2, with the ERP time-locked to Noun2. During sentence comprehension, when the listener hears Noun2, he needs to retrieve Noun1 from the working memory and integrate it with Noun2. We manipulated the (de-)accentuation of Noun1 and the semantic relationship between Noun1 and Noun2 by changing Noun1 in the sentence context. Moreover, we manipulated the distance of accentuation (distance between Noun1 and Noun2) by changing the syntactic structure of the sentences. The results revealed a significant main effect of semantic relatedness, indicating that the low semantic relatedness condition elicited a larger N400 than the high semantic relatedness condition. Importantly, there was a significant two-way interaction between semantic relatedness and accentuation and a significant three-way interaction between semantic relatedness, accentuation, and distance. Further analysis demonstrated that, the semantic relatedness effect was modulated by accentuation in the long-distance sentences, but not in the short-distance sentences. That is, in the long-distance sentences, the semantic relatedness effect reached significance only when the to-be-integrated expression in the preceding sentence context was accented; however, in the short-distance sentences, the semantic relatedness effects reached significance regardless of the presence or absence of accentuation. The results indicated that, during on-line speech processing, accentuation can enhance the corresponding information's semantic short-term memory representation, and that the effect of accentuation on semantic short-term memory is somewhat flexible and shows up only when the words in the speech signal were far apart.
-Amyloid (A) plaques are characteristic hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, we examined the neuroprotective effects of S-aspirin, a hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S)-releasing aspirin, on A-induced cell toxicity. 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay showed that S-aspirin, but not aspirin, significantly increased cell viability in BV-2 microglial cells, indicating that S-aspirin may protect cells against injury via releasing H(2)S. S-aspirin at 2.5-10 M significantly increased cell viability and decreased lactate dehydrogenase release in A-treated BV-2 microglial cells. Western blotting analysis showed that S-aspirin suppressed the protein expression levels of cyclooxygenase-2 and growth arrest DNA damage (GADD). These data suggest that S-aspirin may protect microglial cells by inhibition of A-induced inflammation and cell cycle re-entry. To study whether S-aspirin can protect mitochondria function, mitochondria membrane potential was measured with molecular probe JC-1. It was found that S-aspirin protected mitochondria from A-induced loss of mitochondrial member potential. (m). In addition, S-aspirin also prevented A-induced activation of p38-mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK). In conclusion, our results suggest that S-aspirin may protect microglial injury via inhibition of inflammation, prevention of mitochondria function, and stimulation of cell growth via stimulating p38-MAPK pathway. Our study may suggest that S-aspirin may have potential therapeutic value for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Increasing evidence indicates that both the nerve growth factor (NGF) and adrenergic systems play a very important role in the development of nociception. However, there is little information concerning the functional interactions between these two systems in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG). The present study tested the hypothesis that NGF could affect neuronal responsiveness to noradrenaline (NA) on the nociceptive DRG neurons, thus enhancing the nociceptive signals. To investigate this issue, spontaneous action potentials were recorded in cultured DRG neurons using current-clamp recording. When NGF (50 ng/ml, 24 h) was administered in the neuronal cultures, the neuronal firing response to NA (10 M) was augmented in TrkA-positive neurons (3.020.28 Hz with NGF treatment vs. 1.360.14 Hz in control, P&lt;0.05), indicating that chronic NGF treatment significantly enhanced the neuronal response to NA. Pretreatment of neurons with either the -adrenergic receptor (AR) antagonist phentolamine (100 M) or 1-AR antagonist prazosin (50 M) significantly inhibited the enhanced firings of DRG neurons induced by NA. In addition, treatment of neuronal cultures with NGF (50 ng/ml, 24 h) induced a two-fold increase in 1b-AR expression, as detected with real-time reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) and Western blots, but had no effect on 2-AR expression. These observations indicate that NGF augmented neuronal responsiveness to NA in DRG neurons via increasing 1b-AR expression, and this could contribute to the development of pain sensitization.
The present study demonstrates that serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT)-containing axons project to two sets of neurons in the dorsolateral pons that have been implicated in salt appetite regulation. These two neuronal groups are the pre-locus coeruleus (pre-LC) and a region in the parabrachial nucleus termed the external lateral-inner subdivision (PBel-inner). Neurons in both regions constitutively express the transcription factor Forkhead protein2 (FoxP2), and become c-Fos activated after prolonged sodium depletion. They send extensive projections to the midbrain and forebrain, including a strong projection to the ventral tegmental area (VTA)-a reward processing site. The retrograde neuronal tracer cholera toxin -subunit (CTb) was injected into the VTA region; this was done to label the cell bodies of the pre-LC and PBel-inner neurons. After 1 week, the rats were killed and their brainstems processed by a triple-color immunofluorescence procedure. The purpose was to determine whether the CTb-labeled pre-LC and PBel-inner neurons, which also had FoxP2 immunoreactive nuclei, received close contacts from 5-HT axons. Neurons with these properties were found in both sites. Since the origin of this 5-HT input was unknown, a second set of experiments was carried out in which CTb was injected into the pre-LC or lateral PB. One week later, the rats were perfused and the brainstems from these animals were analyzed for the presence of neurons that co-contained CTb and tryptophan hydroxylase (synthetic enzyme for 5-HT) immunoreactivity. Co-labeled neurons were found mainly in the area postrema and to a lesser degree, in the dorsal raphe nucleus. We propose that the 5-HT inputs to the pre-LC and PBel-inner may modulate the salt appetite-related functions that influence the reward system.
Oxidative damage in the dopaminergic neurons of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Heat shock proteins 70 kDa (HSP70s) are a sub-family of molecular chaperones involved in not only protein folding and degradation but also antioxidant defense and anti-apoptotic pathways. Here, a transgenic mice over-expressing an inducible form of Hsp70 was used to determine whether HSP70 affects 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced nigrostriatal degeneration, an experimental model of PD. The Hsp70 transgenic animals exhibited a high level of expression of HSP70 protein in ventral mesencephalon. Dopaminergic cell death in the SNpc was similar between wild-type and Hsp70 transgenic mice with either acute (40 mg/kg, single dose) or chronic (20 mg/kg, three times/week during 1 month) MPTP treatment. In addition, striatal dopamine loss was not different between wild-type and transgenic animals. Three months after the acute MPTP treatment, dopamine loss was partially recovered into a similar level between wild-type and transgenic groups. In conclusion, over-expression of Hsp70 does not suppress dopaminergic neuronal damage at either the somata or the axon terminals of dopaminergic neurons. Hsp70 over-expression does not help axon terminal regeneration either. These results indicate that HSP70 alone is not sufficient to reduce MPTP-induced dopaminergic neuronal damage.
Viral vector-mediated gene transfer has become increasingly valuable for primate brain research, in particular for application of genetic methods (e.g. optogenetics) to study neuronal circuit functions. Neuronal cell tropisms and infection patterns are viable options for obtaining viral vector-mediated transgene delivery that is selective for particular neuronal pathways. For example, several types of viral vectors can infect axon terminals (retrograde infections), which enables targeted transgene delivery to neurons that directly project to a particular viral injection region. Although recent studies in rodents have demonstrated that adeno-associated virus serotype 8 (AAV8) and 9 (AAV9) efficiently transduce neurons, the tropisms and infection patterns remain poorly understood in primate brains. Here, we constructed recombinant AAV8 or AAV9, which expressed an enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene driven by a ubiquitous promoter (AAV8-EGFP and AAV9-EGFP, respectively), and stereotaxically injected it into several brain regions in marmosets and macaque monkeys. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed almost exclusive colocalization of EGFP fluorescence via AAV9-mediated gene transfer with a neuron-specific marker, indicating endogenous neuronal tropism of AAV9, which was consistent with our previous results utilizing AAV8. Injections of either AAV8-EGFP or AAV9-EGFP into the marmoset striatum resulted in EGFP expression in local striatal neurons as a result of local infection, as well as expression in dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra via retrograde transport along nigrostriatal axonal projections. Retrograde infections were also observed in the frontal cortex and thalamus, which are known to have direct projections to the striatum. These local and retrograde gene transfers were further demonstrated in the geniculocortical pathway of the marmoset visual system. These findings indicate promising capabilities of AAV8 and AAV9 to deliver molecular tools into a range of primate neural systems in pathway-specific manners through their neuronal tropisms and infection patterns.
In the present study we investigated whether individuals would take advantage of an extrinsic and incidental reappraisal strategy by giving them precedent descriptions to attenuate the emotional impact of unpleasant pictures. In fact, precedent descriptions have successfully promoted down-regulation of electrocortical activity and physiological responses to unpleasant pictures. However, the neuronal substrate underlying this effect remains unclear. Particularly, we investigated whether amygdala and insula responses, brain regions consistently implicated in emotional processing, would be modulated by this strategy. To achieve this, highly unpleasant pictures were shown in two contexts in which a prior description presented them as taken from movie scenes (fictitious) or real scenes. Results showed that the fictitious condition was characterized by down-regulation of amygdala and insula responses. Thus, the present study provides new evidence on reappraisal strategies to down-regulate emotional reactions and suggest that amygdala and insula responses to emotional stimuli are adaptive and highly flexible.
The distribution of CA3 hippocampal axonal terminal fields undergo a period of widespread connectivity-based changes in the early postnatal stages of life. The purpose of the current study was to examine the effect of acute phthalate exposure during this period of hippocampal development (postnatal days 16-22 (p16-p22)) on morphological outcomes in male and female Long Evans rats. The reproductive toxicity of exposure to phthalates early in life has been well-documented; however, much less is known about the effects of phthalates on brain development. The present research demonstrated that exposure to di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP; 10 mg/kg, i.p.) from p16 to p22 reduced axonal markers in the CA3 distal stratum oriens (SO) and reduced cell density of both immature and mature neurons in the dentate gyrus (DG) and CA3, respectively, in male rats. The same markers in the hippocampus of female rats were similar in saline and DEHP-treated animals. These data suggest that DEHP has a negative impact on the development of the hippocampus in males but not females and recommend more extensive animal studies on phthalate exposure during the vulnerable post-natal developmental period when rapid structural and functional changes are taking place.
Matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9) and MMP2 are important in the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain behavior induced by peripheral nerve injury. The enzymatic activity of MMP9 and MMP2 is balanced specifically by tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (TIMP1) and TIMP2, respectively. In present study, we measured the effect of peripheral nerve injury on the expression of TIMP1 and TIMP2 in adult dorsal root ganglia (DRG). A dramatic increase of TIMP1 mRNA and a decrease of TIMP2 in DRG after sciatic nerve transection (SNT) were displayed through a real-time PCR method. Furthermore, data showed by in situ hybridization that TIMP1 mRNA was only localized in DRG satellite cells under normal conditions. TIMP1 mRNA was increased in satellite cells, and induced within sensory neurons after SNT. Analysis of neuronal profiles showed that induced TIMP1 mRNA was mainly contained in small and medium DRG neurons. Further study displayed that induced TIMP1 mRNA was predominantly present in activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3)-positive injured DRG neurons. Comparatively, TIMP2 mRNA was mostly contained within sensory neurons and the overall amount decreased at the late stage after nerve injury. These data showed different change of TIMPs in DRG after peripheral nerve injury.
Tinnitus is associated with significant increases in anxiety disorders in humans, which is thought to affect social interaction; however, there has been only one previous study of the effects of tinnitus on social interaction in animals treated with salicylate and no previous study of the effects of tinnitus on anxiety in animals. In the present study, we used acoustic trauma to induce tinnitus in rats and investigated its effects on social interaction and anxiety in animals confirmed to have tinnitus. When social behaviours were grouped, we found that animals with tinnitus engaged in significantly more aggressive behaviours toward both tinnitus and sham control animals (P=0.03). When individual social behaviours were analysed without considering whether a tinnitus or sham animal was interacting with a member of its own treatment group, tinnitus animals were found to engage in significantly more anogenital investigation (P=0.01) and significantly less social grooming (P=0.003). When the data were analysed according to whether an animal was interacting with a member of its own group, tinnitus animals were found to bite sham animals significantly more than other tinnitus animals (P=0.005). Sham animals also bit tinnitus animals significantly more than other sham animals (P=0.02), as well as climbing away from them more (P=0.04), kicking (P=0.003), nudging them more (P=0.04), and sleeping with them more (P=0.02). By contrast, sham animals sniffed tinnitus animals significantly less than sham animals (P=0.05). There were no significant differences between the sham and tinnitus animals in performance in the elevated plus and elevated T maze tests of anxiety. However, tinnitus animals displayed a slight but significant increase in locomotor activity in the open field (P=0.04). These data suggest that tinnitus results in complex changes in social interaction in rats, which are not due simply to increases in anxiety.
Methamphetamine (METH) is an addictive agent that poses a public health problem due to its toxic effects on neural tissue. We have shown that METH induces striatal lesions (cell loss) within 24 h of administration. Because cell proliferation has been found to follow excitotoxic and other types of lesions in adult brain, we tested the hypothesis that cell proliferation would follow METH-induced striatal cell death. To that end, METH (30 mg/kg i.p.) was injected into adult male mice followed by a single injection of the proliferation marker 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU, 100 mg/kg i.p.) at various times post-METH up to 12 weeks. Immunohistochemical analysis of striatal tissue showed that METH-treated animals incorporated BrdU between 24-48 h post-METH. To determine the survival of the newly generated cells, a subgroup of animals received BrdU 36 h after METH and were sacrificed at various times up to 12 weeks post-METH. Morphological analysis of striatal tissue from these animals showed that by 12 weeks post-METH, approximately 42% and 30% of the newly generated cells showed pyknotic or necrotic morphology, respectively. Thus, approximately 30% of the newly generated cells survive up to 12 weeks post-METH. Striatal volume was increased by METH and normalized to control levels by 12 weeks after METH. The data demonstrate that a single bolus injection of METH induces cellular changes and responses that persist for months after exposure to METH.
Procedures that restrict or fragment sleep can inhibit neurogenesis in the hippocampus of adult rodents, although the underlying mechanism is unknown. We showed that rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep deprivation (RSD) by the platform-over-water method inhibits hippocampal cell proliferation in adrenalectomized rats with low-dose corticosterone clamp. This procedure also greatly disrupts daily behavioral rhythms. Given recent evidence for circadian clock regulation of cell proliferation, we asked whether disruption of circadian rhythms might play a role in the anti-neurogenic effects of sleep loss. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a 4-day RSD procedure or were exposed to constant bright light (LL) for 4 days or 10 weeks, a non-invasive procedure for eliminating circadian rhythms of behavior and physiology in this species. Proliferating cells in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus were identified by immunolabeling for the thymidine analogue 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine. Consistent with our previous results, the RSD procedure suppressed cell proliferation by 50%. By contrast, although LL attenuated or eliminated daily rhythms of activity and sleep-wake without affecting daily amounts of REM sleep, cell proliferation was not affected. Melatonin, a nocturnally secreted neurohormone that is inhibited by light, has been shown to promote survival of new neurons. We found that 3-weeks of LL eliminated daily rhythms and decreased plasma melatonin by 88% but did not significantly affect either total cell survival or survival of new neurons (doublecortin+). Finally, we measured cell proliferation rates at the beginning and near the end of the daily light period in rats entrained to a 12:12 light/lark (LD) cycle, but did not detect a daily rhythm. These results indicate that the antineurogenic effect of RSD is not secondary to disruption of circadian rhythms, and provide no evidence that hippocampal cell proliferation and survival are regulated by the circadian system or by nocturnal secretion of pineal melatonin.
The cholinergic cardiac vagal neurons (CVNs), located in the nucleus ambiguus, are the origin of cardioinhibitory parasympathetic activity. Catecholaminergic neurons in nearby regions of the brainstem, including the C1 and C2 cell groups, are thought to play a key role in both arousing from sleep and maintaining wakefulness. Because norepinephrine (NE) could play an important role in influencing the activity of CVNs, particularly in response to sleeping/waking and arousal states, the present study investigated the contribution of (1)-adrenergic receptor activation to augment inhibitory and/or blunt excitatory neurotransmission to CVNs. To test the effects of (1)-adrenergic receptor activation, CVNs were labeled in rats by retrograde tracing and synaptic events were recorded by whole cell voltage clamp techniques in vitro. Prazosin, an inverse agonist of (1)-adrenergic receptor, significantly decreased the frequency of both GABAergic and glycinergic neurotransmission to CVNs. Activation of (1)-adrenergic receptors by the (1)-adrenergic receptor agonists NE or phenylephrine (PE) both significantly increased GABAergic and glycinergic inhibitory event frequency. This effect was prevented by the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX). Activation of (1)-adrenergic receptors did not alter glutamatergic neurotransmission to CVNs. This study indicates that (1)-adrenergic receptor activation in the brainstem can facilitate inhibitory GABAergic and glycinergic neurotransmission so as to reduce CVN activity; this synaptic modulation may play a role in the tachycardia seen during NE-dependent behavioral arousal.
Acid-sensing ion channel 1b (ASIC1b) is a proton-gated Na(+) channel mostly expressed in peripheral sensory neurons. To date, the functional significance of ASIC1b in these cells is unclear due to the lack of a specific inhibitor/blocker. A better understanding of the regulation of ASIC1b may provide a clue for future investigation of its functional importance. One important regulator of acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) is zinc. In this study, we examined the detailed zinc inhibition of ASIC1b currents and specific amino acid(s) involved in the inhibition. In Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells expressing rat ASIC1b subunit, pretreatment with zinc concentration-dependently inhibited the ASIC1b currents triggered by pH dropping from 7.4 to 6.0 with a half-maximum inhibitory concentration of 26 M. The inhibition of ASIC1b currents by pre-applied zinc was independent of pH, voltage, or extracellular Ca(2+). Further, we showed that the effect of zinc is dependent on the extracellular cysteine, but not histidine residue. Mutating cysteine 149, but not cysteine 58 or cysteine 162, located in the extracellular domain of the ASIC1b subunit abolished the zinc inhibition. These findings suggest that cysteine 149 in the extracellular finger domain of ASIC1b subunit is critical for zinc-mediated inhibition and provide the basis for future mechanistic studies addressing the functional significance of zinc inhibition of ASIC1b.
Animal studies have revealed that chronic stress shifts cognitive strategies from the flexible goal-directed action to the simple and rigid habit action. In addition, stress-induced atrophy in the prefrontal cortex and dorsomedial striatum which are involved in the goal-directed action and hypertrophy of the dorsolateral striatum which is critical for the habit action were parallel with the effects of chronic stress on behaviors. The present study tested whether these previous findings in animal studies are compatible in humans by analyzing effects of chronic stress on neural and cardiovascular responses, which are likely important for performing appropriate actions. Twenty healthy men exposed to low or high chronic job stress performed a stochastic reversal learning task, which required cognitive flexibility and the goal-directed action. Regional cerebral blood flow was evaluated during the task using (15)O-water positron emission tomography, and cardiovascular parameters such as blood pressure and heart rate were also measured. During the reversal learning task, whereas participants with low chronic job stress exhibited activity in the anterior caudate, as well as orbitofrontal cortex, ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, insula, and midbrain, which might be related to the goal-directed action, participants with high chronic job stress exhibited no activity in such brain regions. Furthermore, participants with high chronic job stress exhibited less reactivity in diastolic blood pressure, which might be mediated by anterior cingulate cortical activity. These findings, in line with previous studies, suggested that chronic job stress correlates with less activity in brain regions related to the goal-directed action, and insensitive physiological responses in humans.
We have developed a stably transfected human cell model for Alzheimer's disease with doxycycline-inducible expression of human misfolded truncated tau protein (AT tau). We have showed that AT tau reduced the metabolic activity of the AT tau cells, slowed down cell proliferation, and induced caspase-3-independent apoptosis-like programmed cell death, tauoptosis. The aim of this study was to test the possible capability of rat mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) to interfere with AT tau protein-induced cell death. AT tau cells after treatment with 10 M all-trans retinoic acid were either co-cultivated with MSCs or supplemented with MSC secretome for 6 and 9 days. We found that both MSCs and MSC secretome promoted survival and increased the metabolic activity of the cells. Moreover stem cells induced cell differentiation and formation of neurites with numerous varicosities. Strikingly, treatment had no effect on tau expression suggesting that MSC induced self-protecting mechanism that prevented AT tau cells from tauoptosis. Our results showed that mesenchymal stem cells and their secretome are able to rescue the Alzheimer's disease cell model from cell death induced by misfolded truncated tau. We suggest that cell therapy may represent an alternative therapeutic avenue for treatment of human Alzheimer's disease and related tauopathies.
Paclitaxel chemotherapy is limited by a long-lasting painful neuropathy that lacks an effective therapy. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that paclitaxel may release mast cell tryptase, which activates protease-activated receptor 2 (PAR2) and, subsequently, protein kinases A and C, resulting in mechanical and thermal (both heat and cold) hypersensitivity. Correlating with the development of neuropathy after repeated administration of paclitaxel, mast cell tryptase activity was found to be increased in the spinal cord, dorsal root ganglia, and peripheral tissues in mice. FSLLRY-amide, a selective PAR2 antagonist, blocked paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain behaviors in a dose- and time-dependent manner. In addition, blocking downstream signaling pathways of PAR2, including phospholipase C (PLC), protein kinase A (PKA), and protein kinase C (PKC), effectively attenuated paclitaxel-induced mechanical, heat, or cold hypersensitivity. Furthermore, sensitized pain response was selectively inhibited by antagonists of transient receptor potential (TRP) V1, TRPV4, or TRPA1. These results revealed specific cellular signaling pathways leading to paclitaxel-induced neuropathy, including the activation of PAR2 and downstream enzymes PLC, PKC, and PKA and resultant sensitization of TRPV1, TRPV4, and TRPA1. Targeting one or more of these signaling molecules may present new opportunities for the treatment of paclitaxel-induced neuropathy.
The orphan carrier protein Slc10a4 represents a novel member of the so-called &quot;sodium-bile acid co-transporter family,&quot; SLC10. Slc10a4 has a close phylogenetic relationship with the liver bile acid carrier Ntcp (Slc10a1), but has no transport activity for bile acids. In a previous study Slc10a4 proved to be predominantly expressed in the rat brain, where it was localized within cholinergic neurons. However, whether this cholinergic expression pattern was exclusive for Slc10a4 and whether this protein might also be expressed in the peripheral nervous system or other peripheral organs, remained unclear. Therefore, in the present study we analyzed the expression of Slc10a4 in neuronal and non-neuronal rat tissues more systematically, employing immunofluorescence co-localization studies of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter VAChT and the vesicular monoamine transporter VMAT2. The Slc10a4 protein was found to be widely expressed throughout structures of the CNS and peripheral nervous system. In addition to cholinergic neurons in the CNS, the retina, the neuromuscular junction and parasympathetic innervations, Slc10a4 was also localized in certain monoaminergic neurons and nerve fibers in the substantia nigra, the spinal cord and sympathetic innervations. Slc10a4 expression was also detected in granules of rat peritoneal and tissue mast cells using immunofluorescence and electron microscopy. Western blot and immunoprecipitation experiments with rat brain vesicle preparations revealed that the Slc10a4 protein was expressed in synaptic vesicles where it co-localized with synaptophysin, VAChT and VMAT2. This vesicular expression pattern was also shown in the rat adrenal pheochromocytoma cell line PC12 by immunofluorescence. Based on the findings of the present study we can speculate about the function of Slc10a4 as follows: (I) Slc10a4 could be a novel vesicular transporter for cholinergic and/or various monoaminergic neurotransmitters in the central and peripheral nervous system or (II) may be involved in the regulation of the synaptic vesicle sorting or exocytosis process.
Glutamate and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) dysfunction is strongly implicated in the pathophysiology of mood and anxiety disorders. Treatment with NMDAR antagonists has antidepressant efficacy in treatment-resistant depressives. In preclinical rodent models, NMDAR antagonist administration reduces anxiety- and stress-related behaviors in concert with increases in prefrontal cortical (PFC) dendritic spinogenesis and synaptic proteins. While these effects have been attributed to actions at the NMDAR GluN2B subunit, the precise role of cortical GluN2B in mediating emotional behaviors and stress-responsivity is not fully understood. Here, we employed a novel mutant model in which the GluN2B subunit is postnatally deleted in principal neurons in the cortex and the dorsal CA1 subregion of the hippocampus. GluN2BKO mice were phenotyped on a battery of tests for anxiety-related (light/dark exploration, stress-induced hyperthermia) and antidepressant-sensitive (sucrose preference, novelty-induced hypophagia, single-trial forced swim) behaviors. A novel repeated inescapable forced swim paradigm (riFS) was developed to assess behavioral responses to repeated stress in the GluN2BKO mice. For comparison, non-mutant C57BL/6J mice were tested for single-trial forced swim behavior after systemic Ro 25-6981 treatment and for riFS behavior after lesions of the ventromedial prefrontal cortex. riFS-induced alterations in corticolimbic GluN2B expression were also examined in C57BL/6J mice. We found that GluN2BKO mice reduced &quot;despair-like&quot; behavior in the riFS procedure, as compared to GluN2BFLOX controls. By contrast, GluN2BKO mice showed minimal alterations on anxiety-like or antidepressant-sensitive assays, including the single-trial forced swim test. In C57BL/6J mice, induction of &quot;despair-like&quot; responses in the riFS test was attenuated by vmPFC lesions, and was associated with changes in limbic GluN2B expression. Collectively, these data suggest that cortical GluN2B plays a major role in modulating adaptive responses to stress. Current findings provide further support for GluN2B as a key mechanism underlying stress responsivity, and a novel pharmacotherapeutic target for stress-related neuropsychiatric disorders.
This good laboratory practice (GLP) study of aluminum salts in Sprague-Dawley rats was conducted according to double-blind, vehicle-controlled randomized design by exposing offspring to aluminum citrate in-utero, through lactation, and then in drinking water post-weaning. Three dose levels were used: 30, 100, 300 mg Al/kg bw/day, in addition to control groups that received either water or a sodium citrate solution (27.2 g/L). Endpoints were assessed in both female and male pups: behavioral (motor activity, T-maze, auditory startle, the Functional Observational Battery (FOB) with domains targeting autonomic function, activity, neuromuscular function, sensimotor function, and physiological function), cognitive function (Morris swim maze), brain weight, clinical chemistry, hematology, tissue/blood levels of aluminum and neuropathology. The most notable treatment-related effect observed in the offspring was renal pathology, most prominently in the male pups. Higher mortality and significant morbidity were observed in the male pups in the high Al-citrate dose group; leading to euthanization of this group at day 89. There was evidence for dose-response relationships between neuromuscular measurements-hind-limb and fore-limb grip strength-and Al-treatment in both males and females, although some of the effects may be secondary to body weight changes. No consistent treatment-related effects were observed in ambulatory counts (motor activity) in the different cohorts. No significant effects were observed for the auditory startle response, T-maze tests (pre-weaning day 23 cohort) or the Morris water maze test (day 120 cohort). None of the lesions seen on histopathological examination of brain tissues of the day 364 group was reported as treatment-related and, as these were also seen in the control group, were likely due to aging. In conclusion, these results indicate that concentrations of aluminum in the drinking water that are required to produce minimally detectable neurobiological effects in the rat are about 10,000 times higher than what is typically found in potable drinking water.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is known to affect postural control, especially in situations needing a change in balance strategy or when a concurrent task is simultaneously performed. However, few studies assessing postural control in patients with PD included homogeneous population in late stage of the disease. Thus, this study aimed to analyse postural control and strategies in a homogeneous population of patients with idiopathic advanced (late-stage) PD, and to determine the contribution of peripheral inputs in simple and more complex postural tasks, such as sensory conflicting and dynamic tasks. Twenty-four subjects with advanced PD (duration: median (M)=11.0 years, interquartile range (IQR)=4.3 years; Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS): M &quot;on-dopa&quot;=13.5, IQR=7.8; UPDRS: M &quot;off-dopa&quot;=48.5, IQR=16.8; Hoehn and Yahr stage IV in all patients) and 48 age-matched healthy controls underwent static (SPT) and dynamic posturographic (DPT) tests and a sensory organization test (SOT). In SPT, patients with PD showed reduced postural control precision with increased oscillations in both anterior-posterior and medial-lateral planes. In SOT, patients with PD displayed reduced postural performances especially in situations in which visual and vestibular cues became predominant to organize balance control, as was the ability to manage balance in situations for which visual or proprioceptive inputs are disrupted. In DPT, postural restabilization strategies were often inefficient to maintain equilibrium resulting in falls. Postural strategies were often precarious, postural regulation involving more hip joint than ankle joint in patients with advanced PD than in controls. Difficulties in managing complex postural situations, such as sensory conflicting and dynamic situations might reflect an inadequate sensory organization suggesting impairment in central information processing.
During non-rapid eye movement sleep and certain types of anaesthesia, neurons in the neocortex and thalamus exhibit a distinctive slow (&lt;1 Hz) oscillation that consists of alternating UP and DOWN membrane potential states and which correlates with a pronounced slow (&lt;1 Hz) rhythm in the electroencephalogram. While several studies have claimed that the slow oscillation is generated exclusively in neocortical networks and then transmitted to other brain areas, substantial evidence exists to suggest that the full expression of the slow oscillation in an intact thalamocortical (TC) network requires the balanced interaction of oscillator systems in both the neocortex and thalamus. Within such a scenario, we have previously argued that the powerful low-threshold Ca(2+) potential (LTCP)-mediated burst of action potentials that initiates the UP states in individual TC neurons may be a vital signal for instigating UP states in related cortical areas. To investigate these issues we constructed a computational model of the TC network which encompasses the important known aspects of the slow oscillation that have been garnered from earlier in vivo and in vitro experiments. Using this model we confirm that the overall expression of the slow oscillation is intricately reliant on intact connections between the thalamus and the cortex. In particular, we demonstrate that UP state-related LTCP-mediated bursts in TC neurons are proficient in triggering synchronous UP states in cortical networks, thereby bringing about a synchronous slow oscillation in the whole network. The importance of LTCP-mediated action potential bursts in the slow oscillation is also underlined by the observation that their associated dendritic Ca(2+) signals are the only ones that inform corticothalamic synapses of the TC neuron output, since they, but not those elicited by tonic action potential firing, reach the distal dendritic sites where these synapses are located.
Rhythmic local field potential (LFP) oscillations observed during deep sleep are the result of synchronized electrical activities of large neuronal ensembles, which consist of alternating periods of activity and silence, termed 'up' and 'down' states, respectively. Current-source density (CSD) analysis indicates that the up states of these slow oscillations are associated with current sources in superficial cortical layers and sinks in deep layers, while the down states display the opposite pattern of source-sink distribution. We show here that a network model of up and down states displays this CSD profile only if a frequency-filtering extracellular medium is assumed. When frequency filtering was modelled as inhomogeneous conductivity, this simple model had considerably more power in slow frequencies, resulting in significant differences in LFP and CSD profiles compared with the constant-resistivity model. These results suggest that the frequency-filtering properties of extracellular media may have important consequences for the interpretation of the results of CSD analysis.
Brain activity can be measured with several non-invasive neuroimaging modalities, but each modality has inherent limitations with respect to resolution, contrast and interpretability. It is hoped that multimodal integration will address these limitations by using the complementary features of already available data. However, purely statistical integration can prove problematic owing to the disparate signal sources. As an alternative, we propose here an advanced neural population model implemented on an anatomically sound cortical mesh with freely adjustable connectivity, which features proper signal expression through a realistic head model for the electroencephalogram (EEG), as well as a haemodynamic model for functional magnetic resonance imaging based on blood oxygen level dependent contrast (fMRI BOLD). It hence allows simultaneous and realistic predictions of EEG and fMRI BOLD from the same underlying model of neural activity. As proof of principle, we investigate here the influence on simulated brain activity of strengthening visual connectivity. In the future we plan to fit multimodal data with this neural population model. This promises novel, model-based insights into the brain's activity in sleep, rest and task conditions.
An outstanding challenge in neuroscience is to develop theoretically grounded and practically applicable quantitative measures that are sensitive to conscious level. Such measures should be high for vivid alert conscious wakefulness, and low for unconscious states such as dreamless sleep, coma and general anaesthesia. Here, we describe recent progress in the development of measures of dynamical complexity, in particular causal density and integrated information. These and similar measures capture in different ways the extent to which a system's dynamics are simultaneously differentiated and integrated. Because conscious scenes are distinguished by the same dynamical features, these measures are therefore good candidates for reflecting conscious level. After reviewing the theoretical background, we present new simulation results demonstrating similarities and differences between the measures, and we discuss remaining challenges in the practical application of the measures to empirically obtained data.
Recent studies of brain connectivity and language with methods of complex networks have revealed common features of organization. These observations open a window to better understand the intrinsic relationship between the brain and the mind by studying how information is either physically stored or mentally represented. In this paper, we review some of the results in both brain and linguistic networks, and we illustrate how modelling approaches can serve to comprehend the relationship between the structure of the brain and its function. On the one hand, we show that brain and neural networks display dynamical behaviour with optimal complexity in terms of a balance between their capacity to simultaneously segregate and integrate information. On the other hand, we show how principles of neural organization can be implemented into models of memory storage and recognition to reproduce spontaneous transitions between memories, resembling phenomena of memory association studied in psycholinguistic experiments.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the 6th leading cause of death in United States afflicting &gt;5 million Americans. This number is estimated to triple by the middle of the century if effective treatments are not discovered. Current therapy for AD is mainly symptomatic. Effective disease-modifying treatments are needed that would eliminate the cause rather than the symptoms of the disease. Polymerization of monomeric beta-amyloid peptide (A) into dimers, soluble oligomers and insoluble fibrils is considered the prime causative factor in triggering AD pathogenesis. Based on these facts, removal/reduction of A has gained importance as a primary therapeutic target in treating the cause of the disease. In that regard, passive immunotherapy with direct delivery of anti-A antibodies to the brain has shown great promise, but awaits the challenge of overcoming greater influx of anti-A antibody into the brain. This investigation was undertaken to maximize direct delivery of immunotherapeutics to the brain by using wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) as a novel axonal transporter-carrier to be conjugated with anti-A antibody (6E10) raised against EFRHDS 3-8 amino acid (aa) epitopes of A known to react with 1-16 aa residues of mono-/di-/oligomeric A. This is the first report showing the use of WGA as an efficient axonal transporter carrier that not only enhanced the influx of anti-A antibody directly into the brain but also resulted in greater reduction of cerebral A compared to the unconjugated anti-A antibody delivered intranasally in Alzheimer's 5XFAD model.

The tactile sense comprises pathways for both discriminative and affective touch. Low threshold unmyelinated mechanoafferents (C tactile, CT) in the human hairy skin have recently been linked to pleasant touch sensation. Here, we investigated how perception of the hedonic aspect of tactile stimulation differs between the hairy skin of the arm, and the glabrous skin of the palm, which is not innervated by CT afferents. Three groups of nave, healthy subjects (total n=28) rated pleasantness on a visual analogue scale (VAS) when we stroked with a soft brush with speeds from 0.1 to 30cm/s on the palm or forearm. We used two different experimental approaches: in experiments 1 and 2, stimuli were delivered successively on the palm and arm (or arm and palm) in temporally separate sequential blocks. In experiment 3, stimuli were delivered alternately on arm and palm. We found that the order of stimulus presentation, palm/arm or arm/palm, has an effect on pleasantness ratings of gentle brush stroking with varying velocity. Notably, the perception of pleasantness for palm stimulation was affected by previous stimulation of the arm, but not vice versa. Thus, assessment of valence of touch may be influenced by affective reactions elicited by activation of the CT afferent pathway.
Recent evidence suggests that cocaine addiction may involve progressive drug-induced neuroplasticity of the dorsal striatum. Here, we examined the effects of a) dorsolateral caudate putamen (dlCPu) lesions on cocaine self-administration, extinction of responding, and subsequent reinstatement to cocaine-seeking, and b) reversible inactivation of the dlCPu with GABA receptor agonists (baclofen and muscimol) immediately prior to reinstatement testing. Male, Sprague-Dawley rats self-administered cocaine (0.2mg/50l infusion, i.v.) along an FR1 schedule in daily 2h sessions for 10days, whereby lever presses resulted in cocaine infusions and presentation of a paired light-tone stimulus complex. After 14days of abstinence, animals were returned to the self-administration chamber and lever responding was recorded, but had no programmed consequences (relapse test). Animals then underwent daily extinction, followed by reinstatement tests in the presence of the conditioned cues, after a cocaine priming injection (10mg/kg), or cues+cocaine prime. Lesions of the dlCPu failed to affect responding during self-administration, extinction, relapse, or cued-induced reinstatement. However, lesioned animals showed reduced cocaine-seeking during cocaine-primed reinstatement as compared to sham controls. Furthermore, reversible inactivation of the dlCPu significantly impaired both cocaine-primed and cocaine-primed+cue-induced reinstatement. These results demonstrate the critical involvement of the dlCPu in cocaine-primed reinstatement, perhaps via chronic drug-induced changes in the interoceptive effects of cocaine that impact drug-seeking.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) induces synaptic potentiation at both neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) and synapses of the CNS through a Ca2+ -dependent pathway. The molecular mechanism underlying BDNF-induced synaptic potentiation, especially the regulation of Ca2+ dynamics, is not well understood. Using the Xenopus NMJ in culture as a model system, we show that pharmacological inhibition or morpholino-mediated knockdown of Xenopus TRPC1 (XTRPC1) significantly attenuated the BDNF-induced potentiation of the frequency of spontaneous synaptic responses at the NMJ. Functionally, XTRPC1 was required specifically in postsynaptic myocytes for BDNF-induced Ca2+ elevation and full synaptic potentiation at the NMJ, suggesting a previously underappreciated postsynaptic function of Ca2+ signaling in neurotrophin-induced synaptic plasticity, in addition to its well established role at presynaptic sites. Mechanistically, blockade of the p75 neurotrophin receptor abolished BDNF-induced postsynaptic Ca2+ elevation and restricted BDNF-induced synaptic potentiation, while knockdown of the TrkB receptor in postsynaptic myocytes had no effect. Our study suggests that BDNF-induced synaptic potentiation involves coordinated presynaptic and postsynaptic responses and identifies TRPC1 as a molecular mediator for postsynaptic Ca2+ elevation required for BDNF-induced synaptic plasticity.
Despite the importance of breaches of taste identity expectation for survival, its neural correlate is unknown. We used fMRI in 16 women to examine brain response to expected and unexpected receipt of sweet taste and tasteless/odorless solutions. During expected trials (70%), subjects heard &quot;sweet&quot; or &quot;tasteless&quot; and received the liquid indicated by the cue. During unexpected trials (30%), subjects heard sweet but received tasteless or they heard tasteless but received sweet. After delivery, subjects indicated stimulus identity by pressing a button. Reaction time was faster and more accurate after valid cuing, indicating that the cues altered expectancy as intended. Tasting unexpected versus expected stimuli resulted in greater deactivation in fusiform gyri, possibly reflecting greater suppression of visual object regions when orienting to, and identifying, an unexpected taste. Significantly greater activation to unexpected versus expected stimuli occurred in areas related to taste (thalamus, anterior insula), reward [ventral striatum (VS), orbitofrontal cortex], and attention [anterior cingulate cortex, inferior frontal gyrus, intraparietal sulcus (IPS)]. We also observed an interaction between stimulus and expectation in the anterior insula (primary taste cortex). Here response was greater for unexpected versus expected sweet compared with unexpected versus expected tasteless, indicating that this region is preferentially sensitive to breaches of taste expectation. Connectivity analyses confirmed that expectation enhanced network interactions, with IPS and VS influencing insular responses. We conclude that unexpected oral stimulation results in suppression of visual cortex and upregulation of sensory, attention, and reward regions to support orientation, identification, and learning about salient stimuli.
Cerebellar output is necessary for the ideal implementation of many nervous system functions, particularly motor coordination. A key step toward understanding the generation of this output is characterizing the factors that shape the activity of the cerebellar nuclei (CN). There are four major sources of synaptic input that modulate CN activity; collaterals of climbing and mossy fibers are two, and the remaining two are provided by Purkinje cell (PC) axons in the form of simple spikes (SSs) and complex spikes (CSs). Most hypotheses of cerebellar function focus on SSs as the primary determinant of CN activity. However, it is likely that CSs also cause significant direct effects on CN activity, something that is rarely considered. To explore this possibility, we recorded from synaptically connected PC-CN neuron cell pairs in rats. Cross-correlograms of CS and CN activity from such recordings demonstrate that spontaneous CSs have a strong inhibitory effect on CN activity, apparently sufficient, in some cases, to trigger changes in the intrinsic excitability of the CN neuron that long outlast the underlying CS-mediated GABAergic IPSP. Furthermore, many CS-CN correlograms show an initial excitatory response, demonstrating the ability of climbing fiber collaterals to significantly excite CN neurons. A substantial fraction (24%) of correlograms displayed an excitation-inhibition sequence, providing evidence that a CN neuron often receives collaterals from the same olivocerebellar axons as innervate the PCs projecting to it. Thus, excitation followed by inhibition appears to be a hard-wired response pattern of many CN neurons to olivocerebellar activity.
The majority of fast synaptic inhibition in the brain is mediated by benzodiazepine-sensitive 1-subunit-containing GABA type A receptors (GABA(A)Rs); however, our knowledge of the mechanisms neurons use to regulate their synaptic accumulation is rudimentary. Using immunoprecipitation, we demonstrate that GABA(A)Rs and gephyrin are intimately associated at inhibitory synapses in cultured rat neurons. In vitro we reveal that the E-domain of gephyrin directly binds to the 1 subunit with an affinity of 20 m, mediated by residues 360-375 within the intracellular domain of this receptor subunit. Mutating residues 360-375 decreases both the accumulation of 1-containing GABA(A)Rs at gephyrin-positive inhibitory synapses in hippocampal neurons and the amplitude of mIPSCs. We also demonstrate that the affinity of gephyrin for the 1 subunit is modulated by Thr375, a putative phosphorylation site. Mutation of Thr375 to a phosphomimetic, negatively charged amino acid decreases both the affinity of the 1 subunit for gephyrin, and therefore receptor accumulation at synapses, and the amplitude of mIPSCs. Finally, single-particle tracking reveals that gephyrin reduces the diffusion of 1-subunit-containing GABA(A)Rs specifically at inhibitory synapses, thereby increasing their confinement at these structures. Our results suggest that the direct binding of gephyrin to residues 360-375 of the 1 subunit and its modulation are likely to be important determinants for the stabilization of GABA(A)Rs at synaptic sites, thereby modulating the strength of synaptic inhibition.
Primary osmosensory neurons in the mouse organum vasculosum lamina terminalis (OVLT) transduce hypertonicity via the activation of nonselective cation channels that cause membrane depolarization and increased action potential discharge, and this effect is absent in mice lacking expression of the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (Trpv1) gene (Ciura and Bourque, 2006). However other experiments have indicated that channels encoded by Trpv4 also contribute to central osmosensation in mice (Liedtke and Friedman, 2003; Mizuno et al., 2003). At present, the mechanism by which hypertonicity modulates cation channels in OVLT neurons is unknown, and it remains unclear whether Trpv1 and Trpv4 both contribute to this process. Here, we show that physical shrinking is necessary and sufficient to mediate hypertonicity sensing in OVLT neurons isolated from adult mice. Steps coupling progressive decreases in cell volume to increased neuronal activity were quantitatively equivalent whether shrinking was evoked by osmotic pressure or mechanical aspiration. Finally, modulation of OVLT neurons by tonicity or mechanical stimulation was unaffected by deletion of trpv4 but was abolished in cells lacking Trpv1 or wild-type neurons treated with the TRPV1 antagonist SB366791. Thus, hypertonicity sensing is a mechanical process requiring Trpv1, but not Trpv4.
The predicted reward of different behavioral options plays an important role in guiding decisions. Previous research has identified reward predictions in prefrontal and striatal brain regions. Moreover, it has been shown that the neural representation of a predicted reward is similar to the neural representation of the actual reward outcome. However, it has remained unknown how these representations emerge over the course of learning and how they relate to decision making. Here, we sought to investigate learning of predicted reward representations using functional magnetic resonance imaging and multivariate pattern classification. Using a pavlovian conditioning procedure, human subjects learned multiple novel cue-outcome associations in each scanning run. We demonstrate that across learning activity patterns in the orbitofrontal cortex, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), and the dorsal striatum, coding the value of predicted rewards become similar to the patterns coding the value of actual reward outcomes. Furthermore, we provide evidence that predicted reward representations in the striatum precede those in prefrontal regions and that representations in the DLPFC are linked to subsequent value-based choices. Our results show that different brain regions represent outcome predictions by eliciting the neural representation of the actual outcome. Furthermore, they suggest that reward predictions in the DLPFC are directly related to value-based choices.
Scn1b-null mice have a severe neurological and cardiac phenotype. Human mutations in SCN1B result in epilepsy and cardiac arrhythmia. SCN1B is expressed as two developmentally regulated splice variants, 1 and 1B, that are each expressed in brain and heart in rodents and humans. Here, we studied the structure and function of 1B and investigated a novel human SCN1B epilepsy-related mutation (p.G257R) unique to 1B. We show that wild-type 1B is not a transmembrane protein, but a soluble protein expressed predominantly during embryonic development that promotes neurite outgrowth. Association of 1B with voltage-gated Na+ channels Na(v)1.1 or Na(v)1.3 is not detectable by immunoprecipitation and 1B does not affect Na(v)1.3 cell surface expression as measured by [(3)H]saxitoxin binding. However, 1B coexpression results in subtle alteration of Na(v)1.3 currents in transfected cells, suggesting that 1B may modulate Na+ current in brain. Similar to the previously characterized p.R125C mutation, p.G257R results in intracellular retention of 1B, generating a functional null allele. In contrast, two other SCN1B mutations associated with epilepsy, p.C121W and p.R85H, are expressed at the cell surface. We propose that 1B p.G257R may contribute to epilepsy through a mechanism that includes intracellular retention resulting in aberrant neuronal pathfinding.
Area MT has been an important target for studies of motion processing. However, previous neurophysiological studies of MT have used simple stimuli that do not contain many of the motion signals that occur during natural vision. In this study we sought to determine whether views of area MT neurons developed using simple stimuli can account for MT responses under more naturalistic conditions. We recorded responses from macaque area MT neurons during stimulation with naturalistic movies. We then used a quantitative modeling framework to discover which specific mechanisms best predict neuronal responses under these challenging conditions. We find that the simplest model that accurately predicts responses of MT neurons consists of a bank of V1-like filters, each followed by a compressive nonlinearity, a divisive nonlinearity, and linear pooling. Inspection of the fit models shows that the excitatory receptive fields of MT neurons tend to lie on a single plane within the three-dimensional spatiotemporal frequency domain, and suppressive receptive fields lie off this plane. However, most excitatory receptive fields form a partial ring in the plane and avoid low temporal frequencies. This receptive field organization ensures that most MT neurons are tuned for velocity but do not tend to respond to ambiguous static textures that are aligned with the direction of motion. In sum, MT responses to naturalistic movies are largely consistent with predictions based on simple stimuli. However, models fit using naturalistic stimuli reveal several novel properties of MT receptive fields that had not been shown in prior experiments.
&quot;Self-construal&quot; refers to how individuals view and make meaning of the self, and at least two subtypes have been identified. Interdependent self-construal is a view of the self that includes relationships with others, and independent self-construal is a view of the self that does not include relations with others. It has been suggested that priming these two types of self-construal affects the cognitive processing style that an individual adopts, especially with regard to context sensitivity. Specifically, an interdependent self-construal is thought to promote attention to others and social context to a greater degree than an independent self-construal. To investigate this assertion, we elicited motor-evoked potentials with transcranial magnetic stimulation during an action observation task in which human participants were presented with either interdependent or independent self-construal prime words. Priming interdependent self-construal increased motor cortical output whereas priming independent self-construal did not, compared with a no-priming baseline condition. These effects, likely mediated by changes in the mirror system, essentially tune the individual to, or shield the individual from, social input. Interestingly, the pattern of these self-construal-induced changes in the motor system corroborates with previously observed self-construal effects on overt behavioral mimicry in social settings, and as such, our results provide strong evidence that motor resonance likely mediates nonconscious mimicry in social settings. Finally, these self-construal effects may lead to the development of interventions for disorders of deficient or excessive social influence, like certain autism spectrum and compulsive imitative disorders.
Task performance is associated with increased brain metabolism but also with prominent deactivation in specific brain structures known as the default-mode network (DMN). The role of DMN deactivation remains enigmatic in part because its electrophysiological correlates, temporal dynamics, and link to behavior are poorly understood. Using extensive depth electrode recordings in humans, we provide first electrophysiological evidence for a direct correlation between the dynamics of power decreases in the DMN and individual subject behavior. We found that all DMN areas displayed transient suppressions of broadband gamma (60-140 Hz) power during performance of a visual search task and, critically, we show for the first time that the millisecond range duration and extent of the transient gamma suppressions are correlated with task complexity and subject performance. In addition, trial-by-trial correlations revealed that spatially distributed gamma power increases and decreases formed distinct anticorrelated large-scale networks. Beyond unraveling the electrophysiological basis of DMN dynamics, our results suggest that, rather than indicating a mere switch to a global exteroceptive mode, DMN deactivation encodes the extent and efficiency of our engagement with the external world. Furthermore, our findings reveal a pivotal role for broadband gamma modulations in the interplay between task-positive and task-negative networks mediating efficient goal-directed behavior and facilitate our understanding of the relationship between electrophysiology and neuroimaging studies of intrinsic brain networks.
Central glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor (GLP-1R) stimulation suppresses food intake, and hindbrain GLP-1 neurons project to numerous feeding-relevant brain regions. One such region is the nucleus accumbens (NAc), which plays a role in reward and motivated behavior. Using immunohistochemical and retrograde tracing techniques in rats, we identified a robust projection from GLP-1 neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract to the NAc. We hypothesized that activation of NAc GLP-1Rs suppresses feeding. When injected into the NAc core of rats at doses subthreshold for effect when administered to the lateral ventricle, GLP-1 significantly reduced food intake relative to vehicle at 1, 2, and 24 h posttreatment. The same doses had no effect when injected into the NAc shell. NAc core treatment with ventricle-subthreshold doses of the GLP-1R antagonist exendin (9-39) caused significant hyperphagia at 2 h posttreatment, suggesting that endogenous stimulation of NAc core GLP-1Rs plays a role in limiting food intake. It has been suggested that GLP-1 can cause nausea, but we found that NAc core administration of GLP-1 did not cause a conditioned taste aversion to saccharin, suggesting that the anorexic effect of NAc core GLP-1 is not caused by malaise. Finally, we observed that NAc core injection of GLP-1 significantly increased c-Fos expression in the NAc core. We conclude that that GLP-1Rs in the NAc play a physiologic role in food intake control, and suggest that the GLP-1 projection to NAc core may link satiation signal processing in the hindbrain with forebrain processing of food reward.
Investigations of long-term changes in brain structure and function that accompany chronic exposure to drugs of abuse suggest that alterations in gene regulation contribute substantially to the addictive phenotype. Here, we review multiple mechanisms by which drugs alter the transcriptional potential of genes. These mechanisms range from the mobilization or repression of the transcriptional machinery - including the transcription factors FOSB, cyclic AMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) and nuclear factor-B (NF-B) - to epigenetics - including alterations in the accessibility of genes within their native chromatin structure induced by histone tail modifications and DNA methylation, and the regulation of gene expression by non-coding RNAs. Increasing evidence implicates these various mechanisms of gene regulation in the lasting changes that drugs of abuse induce in the brain, and offers novel inroads for addiction therapy.

Excitatory synaptic transmission in the brain is mediated by ligand-gated ion channels (iGluRs) activated by glutamate. Distinct from other neurotransmitter receptors, the extracellular domains of iGluRs are loosely packed assemblies with two clearly distinct layers, each of which has both local and global 2-fold axes of symmetry. By contrast, the iGluR transmembrane segments have 4-fold symmetry and share a conserved pore loop architecture found in tetrameric voltage-gated ion channels. The striking layered architecture of iGluRs revealed by the 3.6 resolution structure of an AMPA receptor homotetramer likely arose from gene fusion events that occurred early in evolution. Although this modular design has greatly facilitated biophysical and structural studies on individual iGluR domains, and suggested conserved mechanisms for iGluR gating, recent work is beginning to reveal unanticipated diversity in the structure, allosteric regulation, and assembly of iGluR subtypes.

An important requirement for vision is to identify interesting and relevant regions of the environment for further processing. Some models assume that salient locations from a visual scene are encoded in a dedicated spatial saliency map [1, 2]. Then, a winner-take-all (WTA) mechanism [1, 2] is often believed to threshold the graded saliency representation and identify the most salient position in the visual field. Here we aimed to assess whether neural representations of graded saliency and the subsequent WTA mechanism can be dissociated. We presented images of natural scenes while subjects were in a scanner performing a demanding fixation task, and thus their attention was directed away. Signals in early visual cortex and posterior intraparietal sulcus (IPS) correlated with graded saliency as defined by a computational saliency model. Multivariate pattern classification [3, 4] revealed that the most salient position in the visual field was encoded in anterior IPS and frontal eye fields (FEF), thus reflecting a potential WTA stage. Our results thus confirm that graded saliency and WTA-thresholded saliency are encoded in distinct neural structures. This could provide the neural representation required for rapid and automatic orientation toward salient events in natural environments.
Quantitative modeling of human brain activity can provide crucial insights about cortical representations [1, 2] and can form the basis for brain decoding devices [3-5]. Recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have modeled brain activity elicited by static visual patterns and have reconstructed these patterns from brain activity [6-8]. However, blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signals measured via fMRI are very slow [9], so it has been difficult to model brain activity elicited by dynamic stimuli such as natural movies. Here we present a new motion-energy [10, 11] encoding model that largely overcomes this limitation. The model describes fast visual information and slow hemodynamics by separate components. We recorded BOLD signals in occipitotemporal visual cortex of human subjects who watched natural movies and fit the model separately to individual voxels. Visualization of the fit models reveals how early visual areas represent the information in movies. To demonstrate the power of our approach, we also constructed a Bayesian decoder [8] by combining estimated encoding models with a sampled natural movie prior. The decoder provides remarkable reconstructions of the viewed movies. These results demonstrate that dynamic brain activity measured under naturalistic conditions can be decoded using current fMRI technology.

Electroreception is an ancient subdivision of the lateral line sensory system, found in all major vertebrate groups (though lost in frogs, amniotes and most ray-finned fishes). Electroreception is mediated by 'hair cells' in ampullary organs, distributed in fields flanking lines of mechanosensory hair cell-containing neuromasts that detect local water movement. Neuromasts, and afferent neurons for both neuromasts and ampullary organs, develop from lateral line placodes. Although ampullary organs in the axolotl (a representative of the lobe-finned clade of bony fishes) are lateral line placode-derived, non-placodal origins have been proposed for electroreceptors in other taxa. Here we show morphological and molecular data describing lateral line system development in the basal ray-finned fish Polyodon spathula, and present fate-mapping data that conclusively demonstrate a lateral line placode origin for ampullary organs and neuromasts. Together with the axolotl data, this confirms that ampullary organs are ancestrally lateral line placode-derived in bony fishes.
Hereditary amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) encompasses a group of genetic disorders characterized by adult-onset loss of the lower and upper motor neuron systems, often with involvement of other parts of the nervous system. Cases of hereditary ALS have been attributed to mutations in 12 different genes, the most common being SOD1, FUS and TARDBP-mutations in the other genes are rare. The identified genes explain 25-35% of cases of familial ALS, but identifying the remaining genes has proved difficult. Only a few genes seem to account for significant numbers of ALS cases, with many others causing a few cases each. Hereditary ALS can be inherited in an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive or X-linked manner, and families with low disease penetrance are frequently observed. In such families, the genetic predisposition may remain unnoticed, so many patients carry a diagnosis of isolated or sporadic ALS. The only clinical feature that distinguishes recognized hereditary from apparently sporadic ALS is a lower mean age of onset in the former. All the clinical features reported in hereditary cases (including signs of extrapyramidal, cerebellar or cognitive involvement) have also been observed in sporadic cases. Genetic counseling and risk assessment in relatives depend on establishing the specific gene defect and the disease penetrance in the particular family.


Research suggests that Alzheimer disease (AD) pathophysiology begins prior to the clinical expression of the disease and that biomarker measures may provide direct evidence of this process. As a result, it may be possible to uncouple the diagnosis of AD from the clinical expression of the disease. The shifting boundaries between normal brain aging and disease present 3 challenges: 1) establishing guidelines for researchers and clinicians to safely and effectively communicate the diagnosis of preclinical AD, 2) setting up a process that effectively translates this diagnosis into practice and policy, and 3) adapting laws, regulations, and professional practices to the diagnosis of preclinical AD. The field of genetic testing for AD suggests how to balance a patient's desire to know his or her risk of developing dementia with a clinician's desire to mitigate the potential harms of that information. The development of diagnostic and treatment guidelines for other diseases of aging, such as cardiovascular disease, suggests the need for a National Alzheimer's Education Program to develop policies and procedures to translate preclinical AD into both clinical practice and policy. Revisions are needed to laws, regulations, and professional practices governing driving, financial management and planning, and privacy and confidentiality.
During light slow-wave sleep, the thalamo-cortical network oscillates in waxing-and-waning patterns at about 7 to 14 Hz and lasting for 500 ms to 3 s, called spindles, with the thalamus rhythmically sending strong excitatory volleys to the cortex. Concurrently, the hippocampal activity is characterized by transient and strong excitatory events, Sharp-Waves-Ripples (SPWRs), directly affecting neocortical activity--in particular the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC)--which receives monosynaptic fibers from the ventral hippocampus and subiculum. Both spindles and SPWRs have been shown to be strongly involved in memory consolidation. However, the dynamics of the cortical network during natural sleep spindles and how prefrontal circuits simultaneously process hippocampal and thalamo-cortical activity remain largely undetermined. Using multisite neuronal recordings in rat mPFC, we show that during sleep spindles, oscillatory responses of cortical cells are different for different cell types and cortical layers. Superficial neurons are more phase-locked and tonically recruited during spindle episodes. Moreover, in a given layer, interneurons were always more modulated than pyramidal cells, both in firing rate and phase, suggesting that the dynamics are dominated by inhibition. In the deep layers, where most of the hippocampal fibers make contacts, pyramidal cells respond phasically to SPWRs, but not during spindles. Similar observations were obtained when analyzing -oscillation modulation in the mPFC. These results demonstrate that during sleep spindles, the cortex is functionnaly &quot;deafferented&quot; from its hippocampal inputs, based on processes of cortical origin, and presumably mediated by the strong recruitment of inhibitory interneurons. The interplay between hippocampal and thalamic inputs may underlie a global mechanism involved in the consolidation of recently formed memory traces.

Chemical synapses contain substantial numbers of neurotransmitter-filled synaptic vesicles, ranging from approximately 100 to many thousands. The vesicles fuse with the plasma membrane to release neurotransmitter and are subsequently reformed and recycled. Stimulation of synapses in vitro generally causes the majority of the synaptic vesicles to release neurotransmitter, leading to the assumption that synapses contain numerous vesicles to sustain transmission during high activity. We tested this assumption by an approach we termed cellular ethology, monitoring vesicle function in behaving animals (10 animal models, nematodes to mammals). Using FM dye photooxidation, pHluorin imaging, and HRP uptake we found that only approximately 1-5% of the vesicles recycled over several hours, in both CNS synapses and neuromuscular junctions. These vesicles recycle repeatedly, intermixing slowly (over hours) with the reserve vesicles. The latter can eventually release when recycling is inhibited in vivo but do not seem to participate under normal activity. Vesicle recycling increased only to  5% in animals subjected to an extreme stress situation (frog predation on locusts). Synapsin, a molecule binding both vesicles and the cytoskeleton, may be a marker for the reserve vesicles: the proportion of vesicles recycling in vivo increased to 30% in synapsin-null Drosophila. We conclude that synapses do not require numerous reserve vesicles to sustain neurotransmitter release and thus may use them for other purposes, examined in the accompanying paper.
Presynaptic nerve terminals contain between several hundred vesicles (for example in small CNS synapses) and several tens of thousands (as in neuromuscular junctions). Although it has long been assumed that such high numbers of vesicles are required to sustain neurotransmission during conditions of high demand, we found that activity in vivo requires the recycling of only a few percent of the vesicles. However, the maintenance of large amounts of reserve vesicles in many evolutionarily distinct species suggests that they are relevant for synaptic function. We suggest here that these vesicles constitute buffers for soluble accessory proteins involved in vesicle recycling, preventing their loss into the axon. Supporting this hypothesis, we found that vesicle clusters contain a large variety of proteins needed for vesicle recycling, but without an obvious function within the clusters. Disrupting the clusters by application of black widow spider venom resulted in the diffusion of numerous soluble proteins into the axons. Prolonged stimulation and ionomycin application had a similar effect, suggesting that calcium influx causes the unbinding of soluble proteins from vesicles. Confirming this hypothesis, we found that isolated synaptic vesicles in vitro sequestered soluble proteins from the cytosol in a process that was inhibited by calcium addition. We conclude that the reserve vesicles support neurotransmission indirectly, ensuring that soluble recycling proteins are delivered upon demand during synaptic activity.
Reaching tasks are popular tools for investigating the neural mechanisms of motor skill learning and recovery from brain damage in rodents, but there is considerable unexplained variability across studies using these tasks. We investigated whether breeder, batch effects, experimenter, time of year, weight and other factors contribute to differences in the acquisition and performance of a skilled reaching task, the single pellet retrieval task, in adult male Long-Evans hooded rats. First, we retrospectively analyzed task acquisition and performance in rats from different breeding colonies that were used in several studies spanning a 3 year period in our laboratory. Second, we compared reaching variables in age-matched rats from different breeders that were trained together as a batch by the same experimenters. All rats had received daily training on the reaching task until they reached a criterion of successful reaches per attempt. We found significant breeder-dependent differences in learning rate and final performance level. This was found even when age-matched rats from different breeders were trained together by the same experimenters. There was also significant batch-to-batch variability within rats from the same breeder trained by the same experimenter. Other factors, including weight, paw preference and the experimenter, were not as strong or consistent in their contributions to differences across studies. The breeder and batch effects found within the same rat strain may reflect genetic and environmental influences on the neural substrates of motor skill learning. This is an important consideration when comparing baseline performance across studies and for controlling variability within studies.
This study examines the link between children's repetitive, ritualistic, behavior and cortical brain activity. Twelve typically developing children between the ages of 6 and 12 years were administered two visual P300, oddball tasks with a 32-electrode electroencephalogram (EEG) system. One of the oddball tasks was specifically designed to reflect sensitivity to asymmetry, a phenomenon common in children and in a variety of disorders involving compulsive behavior. Parents completed the Childhood Routines Inventory. Children's repetitive, compulsive-like behaviors were strongly associated with faster processing of an asymmetrical target stimulus, even when accounting for their P300 latencies on a control task. The research punctuates the continuity between observed brain-behavior links in clinical disorders such as OCD and autism spectrum disorders, and normative variants of repetitive behavior.
Serotonin 5-HT(6) receptor agonists and antagonists have been proposed as possible useful compounds in the treatment of psychiatric disorders such as depression. This study was aimed at characterizing ST 1936, a new 5-HT(6) receptor agonist, as a possible antidepressant/anti-anhedonic drug by studying its effects on three experimental models of depression. These models are based on the behavioral sequelae induced in rats by unavoidable stressors that result in decreased reactivity to avoidable stressors (escape deficit, ED) and an anhedonia-like condition based on the disruptive effect of stress on the competence to acquire an instrumental vanilla sugar-sustained appetitive behavior (VAB). The repeated administration of ST 1936 prevented the development of ED, but did not revert a condition of chronic ED. The protective effect of ST 1936 was antagonized by co-administration of SB 271046, a 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist, indicating that the 5-HT(6) receptor stimulation is crucial for triggering a plasticity process that resulted in the prevention of ED development. ST 1936 administration in rats undergoing VAB training did not interfere with its acquisition, whereas SB 271046 administered in similar conditions prevented VAB acquisition. Moreover, ST 1936 administration in rats trained in the Y-maze while exposed to a chronic stress protocol consistently antagonized the stress-disrupting effect, and also this effect was antagonized by SB 271046 coadministration. It was concluded that a tonic 5-HT(6) receptor activity was crucial for VAB acquisition, and that pharmacological stimulation of 5-HT(6) receptors reinstated a stress-reduced hedonic competence with an efficacy similar to that of classical antidepressant drugs.
Prior neuroimaging studies on metaphor comprehension have tended to focus on the role of the right hemisphere, without reaching consensus and leaving aside the functional architecture of this process. The present work aimed to break down metaphor comprehension into its functional components. The study rationale is two-fold: on the one hand, the large-scale network model as emerging in cognitive neuroscience led us to a consideration of metaphor as supported by a distributed and bilateral network; on the other hand, we based on the accounts of figurative language put forward in pragmatics and cognitive science to postulate a decomposition of such a network into multiple sub-systems. During scanning, participants implicitly processed metaphorical (familiar and unfamiliar) and non-metaphorical passages, while being explicitly involved in an adjective matching task to be performed after reading the target passages. Several regions showed greater activity to metaphors as compared to non-metaphors, including left and right inferior frontal gyrus, right superior temporal gyrus, left angular gyrus, and anterior cingulate. This pattern of activations, markedly bilateral, can be decomposed into circumscribed functional sub-systems mediating different aspects of metaphor resolution, as foreseen in the pragmatic and cognitive literature: (a) the conceptual/pragmatic machinery in the bilateral inferior frontal gyrus and in the left angular gyrus, which supports the integration of linguistic material and world knowledge in context; (b) the attentional component in the anterior cingulate and prefrontal areas, which is set to monitor and filter for the relevant aspects of context and for the appropriate meanings; (c) the Theory of Mind system along the right superior temporal sulcus, which deals with the recognition of speakers' communicative intentions and is more extensively activated by unfamiliar metaphors. The results have several implications for the field of neuropragmatics, especially on the neuropsychological side and on the right hemisphere hypothesis.
Tottering (tg) mice carry a missense mutation in the gene coding for P/Q-type voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels (VDCCs). Aberrant functioning of P/Q-type VDCCs results in molecular alterations in Ca(2+) currents and in glutamate and dopamine systems. As a consequence, tottering mice exhibit mild ataxia, spontaneous epilepsy, and paroxysmal dyskinesia. In this study, we evaluated whether the tottering mice genotype (homozygous vs. heterozygous) and abnormal movement phenotype (mice exhibiting paroxysmal dyskinesia vs. mice not exhibiting dyskinesia) may affect the expression of Homer1a. Homer1a is a gene whose expression is modulated by glutamate, dopamine and Ca(2+) concentrations. Over-expression of Homer1a has been described in epilepsy and motor dysfunctions. Thereby, changes in Homer1a expression could take place in tottering mice. Studying the expression profile of this gene may shed light on the molecular events occurring in tottering mice. Moreover, tottering mice may represent a valuable animal model for investigating Homer1a involvement in motor disorders. Homer1a expression was decreased in all striatal subregions, with the exclusion of the dorsolateral caudate-putamen, in heterozygous mice compared to wild-type and homozygous mice. Gene expression was decreased in the core of the accumbens in mice exhibiting paroxysmal dyskinesia compared to wild-type mice and to mice not exhibiting dyskinesia. These results demonstrate that the tottering mouse genotype may affect striatal expression of Homer1a, possibly as a result of imbalance between Ca(2+) channels subtypes or Ca(2+)-related molecules in heterozygous vs. homozygous mice.
Data on Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) derived measures of cortical excitability and intracortical circuits in age-related white matter changes are scarce. We aimed to assess early changes of motor cortex excitability in nondemented elderly patients with subcortical ischemic vascular disease (SVD). Ten SVD elderly and ten age-matched controls underwent paired-pulse TMS for the analysis of intracortical inhibition (ICI) and facilitation (ICF). All subjects performed neuropsychological assessment and brain magnetic resonance imaging. SVD patients showed abnormal executive control function. No statistically significant differences were found for resting motor threshold, cortical silent period between SVD patients and controls or between the two hemispheres, in patients. A significant enhancement of mean ICF was observed in SVD patients. This study provides the first evidence of functional changes in intracortical excitatory neuronal circuits in patients with SVD and clinical features of vascular cognitive impairment-no dementia. Further studies are required to evaluate whether the observed change of ICF might predict cognitive and/or motor impairment in a population at risk for subcortical vascular dementia.
Oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), a major glial cell type that gives rise to myelinating oligodendrocytes in the CNS, express calcium-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs). Although CP-AMPARs are important for OPC proliferation and neuron-glia signaling, they render OPCs susceptible to ischemic damage in early development. We identified factors controlling the dynamic regulation of AMPAR subtypes in OPCs from rat optic nerve and mouse cerebellar cortex. We found that activation of group 1 mGluRs drove an increase in the proportion of CP-AMPARs, reflected by an increase in single-channel conductance and inward rectification. This plasticity required the elevation of intracellular calcium and used PI3K, PICK-1 and the JNK pathway. In white matter, neurons and astrocytes release both ATP and glutamate. Unexpectedly, activation of purinergic receptors in OPCs decreased CP-AMPAR expression, suggesting a capacity for homeostatic regulation. Finally, we found that stargazin-related transmembrane AMPAR regulatory proteins, which are critical for AMPAR surface expression in neurons, regulate CP-AMPAR plasticity in OPCs.

Inequality between and within populations has origins in adverse early experiences. Developmental neuroscience shows how early biological and psychosocial experiences affect brain development. We previously identified inadequate cognitive stimulation, stunting, iodine deficiency, and iron-deficiency anaemia as key risks that prevent millions of young children from attaining their developmental potential. Recent research emphasises the importance of these risks, strengthens the evidence for other risk factors including intrauterine growth restriction, malaria, lead exposure, HIV infection, maternal depression, institutionalisation, and exposure to societal violence, and identifies protective factors such as breastfeeding and maternal education. Evidence on risks resulting from prenatal maternal nutrition, maternal stress, and families affected with HIV is emerging. Interventions are urgently needed to reduce children's risk exposure and to promote development in affected children. Our goal is to provide information to help the setting of priorities for early child development programmes and policies to benefit the world's poorest children and reduce persistent inequalities.

Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) is a lethal neurodegenerative disorder caused by expansion of a polyglutamine tract in ATXN1. A prominent site of pathology in SCA1 is cerebellar Purkinje neurons where mutant ATXN1 must enter the nucleus to cause disease. In SCA1, phosphorylation of ATXN1 at Ser-776 modulates disease. Interestingly, Ser-776 is located within a region of ATXN1 that harbors several functional motifs including binding sites for 14-3-3, and splicing factors RBM17 and U2AF65. The interaction of ATXN1 with these proteins is thought to be regulated by the phosphorylation status of Ser-776. In addition, Ser-776 is adjacent to the NLS in ATXN1. Although pS776-ATXN1 is enriched in nuclear extracts of cerebellar cells, the vast majority of 14-3-3 is in the cytoplasmic fraction. We found that dephosphorylation of cytoplasmic pS776-ATXN1 is blocked by virtue of it being in a complex with 14-3-3. In addition, data suggest that binding of 14-3-3 to cytoplasmic ATXN1 impeded its transport to the nucleus, suggesting that 14-3-3 must disassociate from ATXN1 for transport of ATXN1 to the nucleus. Consistent with this hypothesis is the observation that once in the nucleus pS776 is able to be dephosphorylated. Evidence is presented that PP2A is the pS776-ATXN1 phosphatase in the mammalian cerebellum. In the nucleus, we propose that dephosphorylation of pS776-ATXN1 by PP2A regulates the interaction of ATXN1 with the splicing factors RBM17 and U2AF65.
The membrane glycoprotein CD200 is expressed on several cell types, including neurons, whereas expression of its receptor, CD200R, is restricted principally to cells of the myeloid lineage, including microglia. The interaction between CD200 and CD200R maintains microglia and macrophages in a quiescent state; therefore, CD200-deficient mice express an inflammatory phenotype exhibiting increased macrophage or microglial activation in models of arthritis, encephalitis, and uveoretinitis. Here, we report that lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and Pam(3)CysSerLys(4) exerted more profound effects on release of the proinflammatory cytokines, interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor- (TNF), in glia prepared from CD200(-/-) mice compared with wild type mice. This effect is explained by the loss of CD200 on astrocytes, which modulates microglial activation. Expression of Toll-like receptors 4 and 2 (TLR4 and -2) was increased in glia prepared from CD200(-/-) mice, and the evidence indicates that microglial activation, assessed by the increased numbers of CD11b(+) cells that stained positively for both MHCII and CD40, was enhanced in CD200(-/-) mice compared with wild type mice. These neuroinflammatory changes were associated with impaired long term potentiation (LTP) in CA1 of hippocampal slices prepared from CD200(-/-) mice. One possible explanation for this is the increase in TNF in hippocampal tissue prepared from CD200(-/-) mice because TNF application inhibited LTP in CA1. Significantly, LPS and Pam(3)CysSerLys(4), at concentrations that did not affect LTP in wild type mice, inhibited LTP in slices prepared from CD200(-/-) mice, probably due to the accompanying increase in TLR2 and TLR4. Thus, the neuroinflammatory changes that result from CD200 deficiency have a negative impact on synaptic plasticity.
Shank3/PROSAP2 gene mutations are associated with cognitive impairment ranging from mental retardation to autism. Shank3 is a large scaffold postsynaptic density protein implicated in dendritic spines and synapse formation; however, its specific functions have not been clearly demonstrated. We have used RNAi to knockdown Shank3 expression in neuronal cultures and showed that this treatment specifically reduced the synaptic expression of the metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5), but did not affect the expression of other major synaptic proteins. The functional consequence of Shank3 RNAi knockdown was impaired signaling via mGluR5, as shown by reduction in ERK1/2 and CREB phosphorylation induced by stimulation with (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) as the agonist of mGluR5 receptors, impaired mGluR5-dependent synaptic plasticity (DHPG-induced long-term depression), and impaired mGluR5-dependent modulation of neural network activity. We also found morphological abnormalities in the structure of synapses (spine number, width, and length) and impaired glutamatergic synaptic transmission, as shown by reduction in the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSC). Notably, pharmacological augmentation of mGluR5 activity using 3-cyano-N-(1,3-diphenyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl)-benzamide as the positive allosteric modulator of these receptors restored mGluR5-dependent signaling (DHPG-induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2) and normalized the frequency of mEPSCs in Shank3-knocked down neurons. These data demonstrate that a deficit in mGluR5-mediated intracellular signaling in Shank3 knockdown neurons can be compensated by 3-cyano-N-(1,3-diphenyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl)-benzamide; this raises the possibility that pharmacological augmentation of mGluR5 activity represents a possible new therapeutic approach for patients with Shank3 mutations.
A pioneering study by J. M. Harris and A. J. Parker (1995) found that disparity judgments using random-dot stereograms were better for stimuli composed of mixed bright and dark dots than when the dots were all bright or all dark. They attribute this to an improvement in stereo correspondence. This result is hard to explain within current models of how stereo correspondence is achieved. However, their experiment varied task difficulty by adding disparity noise. We wondered if this might challenge mechanisms subsequent to the solution of the correspondence problem rather than mechanisms that solve the correspondence problem itself. If so, this would avoid the need to modify current models of stereo correspondence. We therefore repeated Harris and Parker's experiment using interocular decorrelation to vary task difficulty. This technique is believed to probe stereo correspondence more specifically. We observed the efficiency increase reported by Harris and Parker for mixed-polarity dots both using their original technique of disparity noise and using interocular decorrelation. We show that this effect cannot be accounted for by the stereo energy or by simple modifications of it. Our results confirm Harris and Parker's original conclusion that mixed-polarity dots specifically benefit stereo correspondence and point up the challenge to current models of this process.
The importance of mechanotransduction for physiological systems is becoming increasingly recognized. The effect of mechanical stimulation is well studied in organs and tissues, for instance by using flexible tissue culture substrates that can be stretched by external means. However, on the cellular and subcellular level, dedicated technology to apply appropriate mechanical stimuli is limited. Here we report an organic electronic microactuator chip for mechanical stimulation of single cells. These chips are manufactured on silicon wafers using traditional microfabrication and photolithography techniques. The active unit of the chip consists of the electroactive polymer polypyrrole that expands upon the application of a low potential. The fact that polypyrrole can be activated in physiological electrolytes makes it well suited as the active material in a microactuator chip for biomedical applications. Renal epithelial cells, which are responsive to mechanical stimuli and relevant from a physiological perspective, are cultured on top of the microactuator chip. The cells exhibit good adhesion and spread along the surface of the chip. After culturing, individual cells are mechanically stimulated by electrical addressing of the microactuator chip and the response to this stimulation is monitored as an increase in intracellular Ca(2+). This Ca(2+) response is caused by an autocrine ATP signalling pathway associated with mechanical stimulation of the cells. In conclusion, the present work demonstrates a microactuator chip based on an organic conjugated polymer, for mechanical stimulation of biological systems at the cellular and sub-cellular level.


The primary somatosensory cortex (SI) is topographically organized into a map of the body. This organization is dynamic, undergoing experience-dependent modifications throughout life. It has been hypothesized that excitatory and inhibitory synaptic plasticity of horizontal intracortical connections contributes to functional reorganization. However, very little is known about synaptic plasticity of these connections; particularly the characteristics of inhibitory synaptic plasticity, its relationship to excitatory synaptic plasticity, and their relationship to the functional organization of the cortex. To investigate this, we located the border between the forepaw and lower jaw representation of SI in vivo, and used whole cell-patch electrophysiology to record post-synaptic excitatory and inhibitory currents in complex horizontal connections in vitro. Connections that remained within the representation (continuous) and those that crossed from one representation to another (discontinuous) were stimulated differentially, allowing us to examine differences associated with the border. To induce synaptic plasticity, tetanic stimulation was applied to either continuous or discontinuous pathways. Tetanic stimulation induced diverse forms of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic plasticity, with LTP dominating for excitation and LTD dominating for inhibition. The border did not restrict plasticity in either case. In contrast, tetanization elicited LTP of monosynaptic inhibitory responses in continuous, but not discontinuous connections. These results demonstrate that continuous and discontinuous pathways are capable of diverse synaptic plasticity responses that are differentially inducible. Furthermore, continuous connections can undergo monosynaptic inhibitory LTP, independent of excitatory drive onto interneurons. Thus, coordinated excitatory and inhibitory synaptic plasticity of horizontal connections are capable of contributing to functional reorganization.
Modulation of TASK-3 (Kcnk9) potassium channels affect neurotransmitter release in thalamocortical centers and other sleep-related nuclei having the capacity to regulate arousal cycles and REM sleep changes associated with mood disorders and antidepressant action. Circumstantial evidence from this and previous studies suggest the potential for TASK-3 to be a novel antidepressant therapeutic target; TASK-3 knock-out mice display augmented circadian amplitude and exhibit sleep architecture characterized by suppressed REM activity. Detailed analysis of locomotor activity indicates that the amplitudes of activity bout duration and bout number are augmented in TASK-3 mutants well beyond that seen in wildtypes, findings substantiated by amplitude increases in body temperature and EEG recordings of sleep stage bouts. Polysomnographic analysis of TASK-3 mutants reveals increases in nocturnal active wake and suppressed REM sleep time while increased slow wave sleep typifies the inactive phase, findings that have implications for the cognitive impact of reduced TASK-3 activity. In direct measures of their resistance to despair behavior, TASK-3 knock-outs displayed significant decreases in immobility relative to wildtype controls in both tail suspension and forced swim tests. Treatment of wildtype animals with the antidepressant Fluoxetine markedly reduced REM sleep, while leaving active wake and slow wave sleep relatively intact. Remarkably, these effects were absent in TASK-3 mutants indicating that TASK-3 is either directly involved in the mechanism of this drug's action, or participates in parallel pathways that achieve the same effect. Together, these results support the TASK-3 channel to act as a therapeutic target for antidepressant action.


Network oscillations support transient communication across brain structures. We show here, in rats, that task-related neuronal activity in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC), the hippocampus, and the ventral tegmental area (VTA), regions critical for working memory, is coordinated by a 4 Hz oscillation. A prominent increase of power and coherence of the 4 Hz oscillation in the PFC and the VTA and its phase modulation of gamma power in both structures was present in the working memory part of the task. Subsets of both PFC and hippocampal neurons predicted the turn choices of the rat. The goal-predicting PFC pyramidal neurons were more strongly phase locked to both 4 Hz and hippocampal theta oscillations than nonpredicting cells. The 4 Hz and theta oscillations were phase coupled and jointly modulated both gamma waves and neuronal spikes in the PFC, the VTA, and the hippocampus. Thus, multiplexed timing mechanisms in the PFC-VTA-hippocampus axis may support processing of information, including working memory.
In the piriform cortex, individual odorants activate a unique ensemble of neurons that are distributed without discernable spatial order. Piriform neurons receive convergent excitatory inputs from random collections of olfactory bulb glomeruli. Pyramidal cells also make extensive recurrent connections with other excitatory and inhibitory neurons. We introduced channelrhodopsin into the piriform cortex to characterize these intrinsic circuits and to examine their contribution to activity driven by afferent bulbar inputs. We demonstrated that individual pyramidal cells are sparsely interconnected by thousands of excitatory synaptic connections that extend, largely undiminished, across the piriform cortex, forming a large excitatory network that can dominate the bulbar input. Pyramidal cells also activate inhibitory interneurons that mediate strong, local feedback inhibition that scales with excitation. This recurrent network can enhance or suppress bulbar input, depending on whether the input arrives before or after the cortex is activated. This circuitry may shape the ensembles of piriform cells that encode odorant identity.
In primary sensory cortices, there are two main sources of excitation: afferent sensory input relayed from the periphery and recurrent intracortical input. Untangling the functional roles of these two excitatory pathways is fundamental for understanding how cortical neurons process sensory stimuli. Odor representations in the primary olfactory (piriform) cortex depend on excitatory sensory afferents from the olfactory bulb. However, piriform cortex pyramidal cells also receive dense intracortical excitatory connections, and the relative contribution of these two pathways to odor responses is unclear. Using a combination of in vivo whole-cell voltage-clamp recording and selective synaptic silencing, we show that the recruitment of intracortical input, rather than olfactory bulb input, largely determines the strength of odor-evoked excitatory synaptic transmission in rat piriform cortical neurons. Furthermore, we find that intracortical synapses dominate odor-evoked excitatory transmission in broadly tuned neurons, whereas bulbar synapses dominate excitatory synaptic responses in more narrowly tuned neurons.
The mechanism by which multiple brain structures interact to support working memory is not yet fully understood. In this issue of Neuron, Fujisawa and Buzski report that coordinated oscillatory activities between the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex, and ventral tegmental area (VTA) may be a key neural correlate of working memory.
Several voltage-gated ion channels are modulated by clinically relevant doses of general anesthetics. However, the structural basis of this modulation is not well understood. Previous work suggested that n-alcohols and inhaled anesthetics stabilize the closed state of the Shaw2 voltage-gated (Kv) channel (K-Shaw2) by directly interacting with a discrete channel site. We hypothesize that the inhibition of K-Shaw2 channels by general anesthetics is governed by interactions between binding and effector sites involving components of the channel's activation gate. To investigate this hypothesis, we applied Ala/Val scanning mutagenesis to the S4-S5 linker and the post-PVP S6 segment, and conducted electrophysiological analysis to evaluate the energetic impact of the mutations on the inhibition of the K-Shaw2 channel by 1-butanol and halothane. These analyses identified residues that determine an apparent binding cooperativity and residue pairs that act in concert to modulate gating upon anesthetic binding. In some instances, due to their critical location, key residues also influence channel gating. Complementing these results, molecular dynamics simulations and insilico docking experiments helped us visualize possible anesthetic sites and interactions. We conclude that the inhibition of K-Shaw2 by general anesthetics results from allosteric interactions between distinct but contiguous binding and effector sites involving inter- and intrasubunit interfaces.


Understanding how the CNS functions poses one of the greatest challenges in modern life science and medicine. Studying the brain is especially challenging because of its complexity, the heterogeneity of its cellular composition, and the substantial changes it undergoes throughout its life-span. The complexity of adult brain neural networks results also from the diversity of properties and functions of neuronal cells, governed, inter alia, by temporally and spatially differential expression of proteins in mammalian brain cell populations. Hence, research into the biology of CNS activity and its implications to human and animal behavior must use novel scientific tools. One source of such tools is the field of molecular genetics-recently utilized more and more frequently in neuroscience research. Transgenic approaches in general, and gene targeting in rodents have become fundamental tools for elucidating gene function in the CNS. Although spectacular progress has been achieved over recent decades by using these approaches, it is important to note that they face a number of restrictions. One of the main challenges is presented by the temporal and spatial regulation of introduced genetic manipulations. Viral vectors provide an alternative approach to temporally regulated, localized delivery of genetic modifications into neurons. In this review we describe available technologies for gene transfer into the adult mammalian CNS that use both viral and non-viral tools. We discuss viral vectors frequently used in neuroscience, with emphasis on lentiviral vector (LV) systems. We consider adverse effects of LVs, and the use of LVs for temporally and spatially controllable manipulations. Especially, we highlight the significance of viral vector-mediated genetic manipulations in studying learning and memory processes, and how they may be effectively used to separate out the various phases of learning: acquisition, consolidation, retrieval, and maintenance.

The amount of information encoded by networks of neurons critically depends on the correlation structure of their activity. Neurons with similar stimulus preferences tend to have higher noise correlations than others. In homogeneous populations of neurons, this limited range correlation structure is highly detrimental to the accuracy of a population code. Therefore, reduced spike count correlations under attention, after adaptation, or after learning have been interpreted as evidence for a more efficient population code. Here, we analyze the role of limited range correlations in more realistic, heterogeneous population models. We use Fisher information and maximum-likelihood decoding to show that reduced correlations do not necessarily improve encoding accuracy. In fact, in populations with more than a few hundred neurons, increasing the level of limited range correlations can substantially improve encoding accuracy. We found that this improvement results from a decrease in noise entropy that is associated with increasing correlations if the marginal distributions are unchanged. Surprisingly, for constant noise entropy and in the limit of large populations, the encoding accuracy is independent of both structure and magnitude of noise correlations.
The discovery of mirror neurons in the monkey, that fire during both the execution and the observation of the same action, sparked great interest in studying the human equivalent. For over a decade, both functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalography (EEG) have been used to quantify activity in the human mirror neuron system (MNS)-yet, little is still known about how fMRI and EEG measures of the MNS relate to each other. To test the frequent assumption that regions of the MNS as evidenced by fMRI are the origin of the suppression of the EEG -rhythm during both action execution and observation, we recorded EEG and BOLD-fMRI signals simultaneously while participants observed and executed actions. We found that the suppression of the -rhythm in EEG covaried with BOLD activity in typical MNS regions, inferior parietal lobe (IPL), dorsal premotor (dPM) and primary somatosensory cortex (BA2), during both action observation and execution. In contrast, in BA44, only nonoverlapping voxels correlated with -suppression during observation and execution. These findings provide direct support for the notion that -suppression is a valid indicator of MNS activity in BA2, IPL, and dPM, but argues against the idea that mirror neurons in BA44 are the prime source of -suppression. These results shed light on the neural basis of -suppression and provide a basis for integrating more closely the flourishing but often separate literatures on the MNS using fMRI and EEG.
Recent studies have suggested that extracellular recordings of putative cortical interneurons have briefer spikes than those of pyramidal neurons, providing a means of identifying cortical cell types in recordings from awake monkeys. To test this, we investigated the spike duration of antidromically identified pyramidal tract neurons (PTNs) recorded from primary motor (M1) or ventral premotor cortex (area F5) in 4 awake macaque monkeys. M1 antidromic latencies (ADLs) were skewed toward short ADLs (151 PTNs; 0.5-5.5 ms, median 1.1 ms) and significantly different from that of F5 ADLs (54 PTNs; 1.0-6.9 ms, median 2.6 ms). The duration of PTN spikes, recorded with a high-pass filter of 300 Hz and measured from the negative trough to the positive peak of the spike waveform, ranged from 0.15 to 0.71 ms. Importantly, we found a positive linear correlation between ADL and spike duration in both M1 (R(2) = 0.40, p &lt; 0.001) and F5 (R(2) = 0.57, p &lt; 0.001). Thus PTNs with the shortest ADL (fastest axons) had the briefest spikes, and since PTN soma size is correlated with axon size and conduction velocity, it is likely that the largest pyramidal neurons (Betz cells in M1) have spikes with short durations (0.15-0.45 ms), which overlap heavily with those reported for putative interneurons in previous studies in non-primates. In summary, one class of physiologically identified cortical pyramidal neuron exhibits a wide variety of spike durations and the results suggest that spike duration alone may not be a reliable indicator of cell type.
Despite the pronounced neurological deficits associated with mental retardation and autism, the degree to which neocortical circuit function is altered remains unknown. Here, we study changes in neocortical network function in the form of persistent activity states in the mouse model of fragile X syndrome--the Fmr1 knock-out (KO). Persistent activity states, or UP states, in the neocortex underlie the slow oscillation which occurs predominantly during slow-wave sleep, but may also play a role during awake states. We show that spontaneously occurring UP states in the primary somatosensory cortex are 38-67% longer in Fmr1 KO slices. In vivo, UP states reoccur with a clear rhythmic component consistent with that of the slow oscillation and are similarly longer in the Fmr1 KO. Changes in neocortical excitatory circuitry likely play the major role in this alteration as supported by three findings: (1) longer UP states occur in slices of isolated neocortex, (2) pharmacologically isolated excitatory circuits in Fmr1 KO neocortical slices display prolonged bursting states, and (3) selective deletion of Fmr1 in cortical excitatory neurons is sufficient to cause prolonged UP states whereas deletion in inhibitory neurons has no effect. Excess signaling mediated by the group 1 glutamate metabotropic receptor, mGluR5, contributes to the longer UP states. Genetic reduction or pharmacological blockade of mGluR5 rescues the prolonged UP state phenotype. Our results reveal an alteration in network function in a mouse model of intellectual disability and autism which may impact both slow-wave sleep and information processing during waking states.
Previous work in culture has shown that basal forebrain (BF) oligodendrocyte (OLG) lineage cells respond to BDNF by increasing DNA synthesis and differentiation. Further, in the BF in vivo, reduced levels of BDNF as seen in BDNF(+/-) mice result in reduced numbers of NG2+ cells and deficits in myelin proteins throughout development and in the adult, suggesting that BDNF impacts the proliferating population of OLGs as well as differentiation in vivo. In this study, to investigate the roles BDNF may play in the repair of a demyelinating lesion, the cuprizone model was used and the corpus callosum was examined. BDNF protein levels were reduced after cuprizone treatment, suggesting that the demyelinating lesion itself elicits a decrease in BDNF. To analyze the effects of a further reduction of BDNF on OLG lineage cells following cuprizone, BDNF(+/-) mice were evaluated. These mice exhibited a blunted increase in the NG2 response at 4 and 5 weeks of cuprizone treatment. In addition, BDNF(+/-) mice exhibited decreased levels of myelin proteins during the demyelination and remyelination processes with no change in the total number of OLGs. These effects appear to be relatively specific to OLG lineage cells as comparable changes in CD11b+ microglia, GFAP+ astrocytes, and SMI32+ injured axons were not observed. These data indicate that BDNF may play a role following a demyelinating lesion by regulating the numbers of progenitors and the abilities of demyelinating and differentiating cells to express myelin proteins.
The establishment of neuronal circuitry during development relies upon the action of cell-intrinsic mechanisms that specify neuronal form as well as plastic processes that require the transmission of neural activity between afferents and their targets. Here, we examine the role of interactions between neighboring like-type cells within the mouse retina upon neuronal differentiation and circuit formation. Two different genetically modified mouse models were used to modulate the density of homotypic neighbors, the Type 7 cone bipolar cells, without affecting the density of their afferents, the cone photoreceptors. We demonstrate a corresponding plasticity in dendritic field area when the density of Type 7 cone bipolar cells is elevated or reduced. In accord with this variation in dendritic field area across an invariant population of afferents, individual Type 7 cone bipolar cells are also shown to modulate the number of cone pedicles contacted without varying the number of contacts at each cone pedicle. Analysis of developing Type 7 cone bipolar cells reveals that the dendritic tiling present in maturity is achieved secondarily, after an initial stage of dendritic overlap, when the dendritic terminals are stratified at the level of the cone pedicles but are not localized to them. These results demonstrate a conspicuous developmental plasticity in neural circuit formation independent of neural activity, requiring homotypic interactions between neighboring cells that ultimately regulate connectivity within the retina.
Uncontrollable stressors produce behavioral changes that do not occur if the organism can exercise behavioral control over the stressor. Previous studies suggest that the behavioral consequences of uncontrollable stress depend on hypersensitivity of serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), but the mechanisms involved have not been determined. We used ex vivo single-unit recording in rats to test the hypothesis that the effects of uncontrollable stress are produced by desensitization of DRN 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors. These studies revealed that uncontrollable, but not controllable, tail shock impaired 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated inhibition of DRN neuronal firing. Moreover, this effect was observed only at time points when the behavioral effects of uncontrollable stress are present. Furthermore, temporary inactivation of the medial prefrontal cortex with the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol, which eliminates the protective effects of control on behavior, led even controllable stress to now produce functional desensitization of DRN 5-HT(1A) receptors. Additionally, behavioral immunization, an experience with controllable stress before uncontrollable stress that prevents the behavioral outcomes of uncontrollable stress, also blocked functional desensitization of DRN 5-HT(1A) receptors by uncontrollable stress. Last, Western blot analysis revealed that uncontrollable stress leads to desensitization rather than downregulation of DRN 5-HT(1A) receptors. Thus, treatments that prevent controllable stress from being protective led to desensitization of 5-HT(1A) receptors, whereas treatments that block the behavioral effects of uncontrollable stress also blocked 5-HT(1A) receptor desensitization. These data suggest that uncontrollable stressors produce a desensitization of DRN 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors and that this desensitization is responsible for the behavioral consequences of uncontrollable stress.
In the vertebrate CNS, fast synaptic inhibition is mediated by GABA and glycine receptors. We recently reported that the time course of these synaptic currents is slower when intracellular chloride is high. Here we extend these findings to measure the effects of both extracellular and intracellular chloride on the deactivation of glycine and GABA currents at both negative and positive holding potentials. Currents were elicited by fast agonist application to outside-out patches from HEK-293 cells expressing rat glycine or GABA receptors. The slowing effect of high extracellular chloride on current decay was detectable only in low intracellular chloride (4 mm). Our main finding is that glycine and GABA receptors &quot;sense&quot; chloride concentrations because of interactions between the M2 pore-lining domain and the permeating ions. This hypothesis is supported by the observation that the sensitivity of channel gating to intracellular chloride is abolished if the channel is engineered to become cation selective or if positive charges in the external pore vestibule are eliminated by mutagenesis. The appropriate interaction between permeating ions and channel pore is also necessary to maintain the channel voltage sensitivity of gating, which prolongs current decay at depolarized potentials. Voltage dependence is abolished by the same mutations that suppress the effect of intracellular chloride and also by replacing chloride with another permeant ion, thiocyanate. These observations suggest that permeant chloride affects gating by a foot-in-the-door effect, binding to a channel site with asymmetrical access from the intracellular and extracellular sides of the membrane.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) are a family of extracellular matrix molecules with various functions in regulating tissue morphogenesis, cell division, and axon guidance. A number of CSPGs are highly upregulated by reactive glial scar tissues after injuries and form a strong barrier for axonal regeneration in the adult vertebrate CNS. Although CSPGs may negatively regulate axonal growth via binding and altering activity of other growth-regulating factors, the molecular mechanisms by which CSPGs restrict axonal elongation are not well understood. Here, we identified a novel receptor mechanism whereby CSPGs inhibit axonal growth via interactions with neuronal transmembrane leukocyte common antigen-related phosphatase (LAR). CSPGs bind LAR with high affinity in transfected COS-7 cells and coimmunoprecipitate with LAR expressed in various tissues including the brain and spinal cord. CSPG stimulation enhances activity of LAR phosphatase in vitro. Deletion of LAR in knock-out mice or blockade of LAR with sequence-selective peptides significantly overcomes neurite growth restrictions of CSPGs in neuronal cultures. Intracellularly, CSPG-LAR interaction mediates axonal growth inhibition of neurons partially via inactivating Akt and activating RhoA signals. Systemic treatments with LAR-targeting peptides in mice with thoracic spinal cord transection injuries induce significant axon growth of descending serotonergic fibers in the vicinity of the lesion and beyond in the caudal spinal cord and promote locomotor functional recovery. Identification of LAR as a novel CSPG functional receptor provides a therapeutic basis for enhancing axonal regeneration and functional recovery after CNS injuries in adult mammals.

Genetic modification is continuing to be an essential tool in studying stem cell biology and in setting forth potential clinical applications of human embryonic stem cells (HESCs). While improvements in several gene delivery methods have been described, transfection remains a capricious process for HESCs, and has not yet been reported in human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). In this video, we demonstrate how our lab routinely transfects and nucleofects human iPSCs using plasmid with an enhanced green fluorescence protein (eGFP) reporter. Human iPSCs are adapted and maintained as feeder-free cultures to eliminate the possibility of feeder cell transfection and to allow efficient selection of stable transgenic iPSC clones following transfection. For nucleofection, human iPSCs are pre-treated with ROCK inhibitor, trypsinized into small clumps of cells, nucleofected and replated on feeders in feeder cell-conditioned medium to enhance cell recovery. Transgene-expressing human iPSCs can be obtained after 6 hours. Antibiotic selection is applied after 24 hours and stable transgenic lines appear within 1 week. Our protocol is robust and reproducible for human iPSC lines without altering pluripotency of these cells.
FE65 is reported to act as an adaptor protein with several protein-interaction domains, including one WW domain and two phosphotyrosine interaction/binding domains. Through these binding domains, FE65 was considered to recruit various binding partners together to form functional complexes in a certain cellular compartment. In this study, we demonstrated that Rac1, a member of the Rho family GTPases, bound with FE65. We also elucidated that Rac1 inhibitor significantly suppressed FE65 expression, and Rac1 small interfering RNA transduction significantly decreased FE65 expression. FE65 small interfering RNA, however, did not influence Rac1 expression and its activity. Taken together, our results reveal that Rac1 interacts with FE65, and Rac1 activity regulates FE65 expression.
We used positron emission tomography to identify brain regions involved in the processing of emotions induced by social reputation from others. During positron emission tomographic scanning, individuals were presented with either a positive or a negative social reputation combined with face photographs of persons whom the individuals either liked or disliked. Behavioral results revealed that a positive reputation led to a higher pleasantness score than a negative reputation. Imaging data demonstrated that the orbitofrontal cortex was activated with positive reputations relative to negative reputations, and that the amygdala was activated with negative reputations relative to positive reputations. These findings suggest that pleasant and unpleasant emotions induced by positive and negative social reputations from others are associated with activity in different brain regions.
Insulin-like peptide 5 (INSL5) is a member of insulin/relaxin superfamily of peptides. It has recently been identified as the cognate ligand for the G-protein-coupled receptor, RXFP4. Although the complete physiological role of this naturally occurring peptide is still under investigation, there is evidence that it acts to both stimulate appetite and activate colon motility. This suggests that both agonists and antagonists of the peptide may have potential therapeutic applications. To further investigate the physiological role of this peptide and because of the ready availability of the mouse as an experimental animal, the preparation of mouse INSL5 was undertaken. Because of its complex structure and the intractable nature of the two constituent chains, different solid phase synthesis strategies were investigated, including the use of a temporary B-chain solubilizing tag. Unfortunately, none provided significantly improved yield of purified mouse INSL5 which reflects the complexity of this peptide. In addition to the native peptide, two mouse INSL5 analogues were also prepared. One had its two chains as C-terminal amides, and the other contained a europium chelate monolabel for use in RXFP4 receptor assays. It was found that the INSL5 amide was substantially less potent than the native acid form. A similar observation was made for the human peptide acid and amide, highlighting the necessity for free C-terminal carboxylates for function. Two additional human INSL5 analogues were prepared to further investigate the necessity of a free C-terminal. The results together provide a first insight into the mechanism whereby INSL5 binds to and activates RXFP4.

A 41-year-old patient with schizophrenia was admitted to hospital following episodes of unexplained collapse attacks and on and off episodes of frontal headaches for 3 months. After three such episodes of loss of consciousness in 2 weeks duration and subsequent spontaneous recovery, his evaluation which included MRI scan of head revealed extensive cortical venous thrombosis. He was on zuclopenthixol (thioxanthene group) for several months for schizophrenia and was under regular psychiatric evaluation. He was treated for simple lower respiratory infection a week prior to admission. Other causes for any clotting disorders including vasculitic and thrombophilic screen were negative. There was no evidence of focal neurology on examination. Systemic examination was otherwise unremarkable. He was treated initially with unfractionated heparin and subsequently changed to warfarin with target international normalised ratio between two and three for at least 6 months and psychiatrist was advised to stop zuclopenthixol.
Adult neurogenesis has been the focus of intense investigation, but the function of new neurons remains elusive. Snyder etal. (2011) report that new neurons in the hippocampus play an important role in appropriate shut-off of the stress response.
Background and purpose: Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is a progressive neurovisceral disorder associated with dystonia, ataxia and a characteristic gaze palsy. Neuropathological studies have demonstrated brainstem atrophy associated with neuronal inclusions and loss, and neurofibrillary tangles, although it is not known whether this pathology can be detected in vivo or how these changes relate to illness variables, particularly ocular-motor changes. Our aim was to utilize a method for brainstem atrophy, validated in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), in a group of adult patients with NPC, and explore its relationship to illness variables and ocular-motor functioning. Methods: We calculated the midbrain and pontine area, and pontine-to-midbrain ratio (PMR) from midsagittal images of 10 adult patients with NPC and 27 age- and gender-matched controls. Measures were correlated with illness variables, and measures of horizontal saccadic functioning. Results: Pontine-to-midbrain ratio was 14% higher in the NPC group, but this difference was not significant. However, PMR showed a significant positive correlation with duration of illness and a measure of illness severity. Furthermore, PMR was significantly negatively correlated with saccadic peak velocity and gain, and self-paced saccadic performance. Conclusions: Pontine-to-midbrain ratio was increased in adult patients with NPC compared to controls, although not to the same degree as previously described in PSP, which also presents with significant gaze palsy. These changes were driven predominantly by progressive midbrain atrophy. The strong correlation with illness and ocular-motor variables suggests that it may be a useful marker for illness progression in NPC.
BDNF is produced from many transcripts that display distinct subcellular localization, suggesting that spatially restricted effects occur as a function of genetic and physiological regulation. Different BDNF 5' splice variants give a restricted localization in the cell body or the proximal and distal compartments of dendrites; however, the functional consequences are not known. Silencing individual endogenous transcripts or overexpressing BDNF-GFP transcripts in cultured neurons demonstrated that whereas some transcripts (1 and 4) selectively affected proximal dendrites, others (2C and 6) affected distal dendrites. Moreover, segregation of BDNF transcripts resulted in a highly selective activation of the BDNF TrkB receptor. These studies indicate that spatial segregation of BDNF transcripts enables BDNF to differentially shape distinct dendritic compartments.
Glucocorticoids (GCs) are used to treat pregnant women at risk for preterm delivery; however, prenatal exposure to GCs may trigger adverse neurological side effects due to reduced neural progenitor cell (NPC) proliferation. Whereas many established cell-cycle regulators impact NPC proliferation, other signaling molecules, such as the gap junction protein connexin-43 (Cx43), also influence proliferation. Gap junction intercellular communication (GJIC) is influenced by GCs in some cells, but such hormone effects have not been examined in coupled stem cells. We found that both continuous and transient exposure of embryonic day 14.5 mouse neurosphere cultures to dexamethasone (DEX) limits proliferation of coupled NPCs, which is manifested by both a reduction in S-phase progression and enhanced cell-cycle exit. A short (i.e., 1-h) DEX treatment also reduced GJIC as measured by live-cell fluorescence recovery after photobleaching, and altered the synchrony of spontaneous calcium transients in coupled NPCs. GC effects on GJIC in NPCs are transcription-independent and mediated through plasma membrane glucocorticoid receptors (GRs). This nongenomic pathway operates through lipid raft-associated GRs via a site-specific, MAPK-dependent phosphorylation of Cx43, which is linked to GR via caveolin-1 (Cav-1) and c-src. Cav-1 is essential for this nongenomic action of GR, as DEX effects on GJIC, Cx43 phosphorylation, and MAPK activation are not observed in Cav-1 knockout NPCs. As transient pharmacologic inhibition of GJIC triggers reduced S-phase progression but not enhanced cell-cycle exit, the nongenomic GR signaling pathway may operate via distinct downstream effectors to alter the proliferative capacity of NPCs.

Genotype-phenotype correlations of common monogenic diseases revealed that the degree of deviation of mutant genes from wild-type structure and function often predicts disease onset and severity. In complex disorders such as schizophrenia, the overall genetic risk is still often &gt;50% but genotype-phenotype relationships are unclear. Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) replicated a risk for several single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) regarding the endpoint diagnosis of schizophrenia. The biological relevance of these SNPs, however, for phenotypes or severity of schizophrenia has remained obscure. We hypothesized that the GWAS 'top-10' should as single markers, but even more so upon their accumulation, display associations with lead features of schizophrenia, namely positive and negative symptoms, cognitive deficits and neurological signs (including catatonia), and/or with age of onset of the disease prodrome as developmental readout and predictor of disease severity. For testing this hypothesis, we took an approach complementary to GWAS, and performed a phenotype-based genetic association study (PGAS). We utilized the to our knowledge worldwide largest phenotypical database of schizophrenic patients (n&gt;1000), the GRAS (Gttingen Research Association for Schizophrenia) Data Collection. We found that the 'top-10' GWAS-identified risk SNPs neither as single markers nor when explored in the sense of a cumulative genetic risk, have any predictive value for disease onset or severity in the schizophrenic patients, as demonstrated across all core symptoms. We conclude that GWAS does not extract disease genes of general significance in schizophrenia, but may yield, on a hypothesis-free basis, candidate genes relevant for defining disease subgroups.
We employ a Hodgkin-Huxley type model of basolateral ionic currents in bullfrog saccular hair cells to study the genesis of spontaneous voltage oscillations and their role in shaping the response of the hair cell to external mechanical stimuli. Consistent with recent experimental reports, we find that the spontaneous dynamics of the model can be categorized using conductance parameters of calcium activated potassium, inward rectifier potassium, and mechano-electrical transduction ionic currents. The model is demonstrated to exhibit a broad spectrum of autonomous rhythmic activity, including periodic and quasiperiodic oscillations with two independent frequencies as well as various regular and chaotic bursting patterns. Complex patterns of spontaneous oscillations in the model emerge at small values of the conductance of Ca(2+) activated potassium currents. These patterns are significantly affected by thermal fluctuations of the mechano-electrical transduction current. We show that self-sustained regular voltage oscillations lead to enhanced and sharply tuned sensitivity of the hair cell to weak mechanical periodic stimuli. While regimes of chaotic oscillations are argued to result in poor tuning to sinusoidal driving, chaotically oscillating cells do provide a high sensitivity to low-frequency variations of external stimuli.
Pavlovian eyeblink conditioning has been used extensively as a model system for examining the neural mechanisms underlying associative learning. Delay eyeblink conditioning depends on the intermediate cerebellum ipsilateral to the conditioned eye. Evidence favors a two-site plasticity model within the cerebellum with long-term depression of parallel fiber synapses on Purkinje cells and long-term potentiation of mossy fiber synapses on neurons in the anterior interpositus nucleus. Conditioned stimulus and unconditioned stimulus inputs arise from the pontine nuclei and inferior olive, respectively, converging in the cerebellar cortex and deep nuclei. Projections from subcortical sensory nuclei to the pontine nuclei that are necessary for eyeblink conditioning are beginning to be identified, and recent studies indicate that there are dynamic interactions between sensory thalamic nuclei and the cerebellum during eyeblink conditioning. Cerebellar output is projected to the magnocellular red nucleus and then to the motor nuclei that generate the blink response(s). Tremendous progress has been made toward determining the neural mechanisms of delay eyeblink conditioning but there are still significant gaps in our understanding of the necessary neural circuitry and plasticity mechanisms underlying cerebellar learning.
Placebo analgesia is mediated by both opioid and nonopioid mechanisms, but so far nothing is known about the nonopioid component. Here we show that the specific CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist 5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichloro-phenyl)-4-methyl-N-(piperidin-1-yl)-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (rimonabant or SR141716) blocks nonopioid placebo analgesic responses but has no effect on opioid placebo responses. These findings suggest that the endocannabinoid system has a pivotal role in placebo analgesia in some circumstances when the opioid system is not involved.
Maternal exposure to cocaine may perturb fetal development and affect synaptic maturation in the offspring. However, the molecular mechanism underlying such changes remains elusive. We focused on the postnatal maturation of glutamatergic transmission onto ventral tegmental area dopamine neurons in the mouse. We found that, during the first postnatal week, transmission was dominated by calcium-permeable AMPA receptors and GluN2B-containing NMDA receptors. Subsequently, mGluR1 receptors drove synaptic insertion of calcium-impermeable AMPA receptors and GluN2A-containing NMDAR. When pregnant mice were exposed to cocaine, this glutamate receptor switch was delayed in offspring as a result of a direct effect of cocaine on the fetal dopamine transporter and impaired mGluR1 function. Finally, positive modulation of mGluR1 in vivo was sufficient to rescue maturation. These data identify the molecular target through which in utero cocaine delays postnatal synaptic maturation, reveal the underlying expression mechanism of this impairment and propose a potential rescue strategy.
Lead is an environmental toxin and its effects are principally manifested in the brain. Glial and neuronal changes have been described during development following chronic or acute lead intoxication, however, little is known about the effects of chronic lead intoxication in adults. In this study we evaluated immunohistochemically the glial and dopaminergic systems in adult male Wistar rats. 0.5% (v/v) lead acetate in drinking water was administrated chronically over a 3-month period. Hypertrophic immunoreactive astrocytes were observed in the frontal cortex and other brain structures of the treated animals. Analysis of the astroglial features showed increased number of astrocyte cell bodies and processes in treated rats, an increase confirmed by Western blot. Particular distribution of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity was observed within the blood vessel walls in which dense immunoreactive glial processes emanate from astrocytes. Glial changes in the frontal cortex were concomitant with reduced tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neuronal processes, which seem to occur as a consequence of significantly reduced dopaminergic neurons within the nucleus of origin in the substantia nigra. These glial and neuronal changes following lead intoxication may affect animal behavior as evidenced by reduced locomotor activity in an open field test. These findings demonstrate that chronic lead exposure induces astroglial changes, which may compromise neuronal function and consequently animal behavior.
LGMD2B is a frequent proximo-distal myopathy with rapid evolution after age 20. Exacerbating factors may be physical exercise and inflammation. There is very little information about the effect of sportive activity in LGMD2B, since eccentric exercise frequently results in muscle damage. LGMD2B has often an onset with myalgia and MRI imaging (STIR-sequences) shows myoedema. In a prolonged observational study of a series of 18 MM/LGMD2B patients we have studied the pattern of clinical and radiological evolution. The disease has an abrupt onset in the second decade and most patients perform sports before definite disease onset. On the basis of Gardner-Medwin and Walton scale, grade 4 is reached two years faster in patients who performed sports (over 1000 hours). Other considerations regarding pathogenetic mechanism and response to treatment show a poor response to immunosuppressive treatment of muscle inflammation. Preventing a strenuous physical activity should be recommended in patients with high CK and diagnosed or suspected to have dysferlin deficiency.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a fatal neurodegenerative disease of the upper and lower motor neuron of unknown etiology. Although a familial cause for this disease has been suspected early one, it is only in the past two decades that advances in modern genetics led to the identification of more than 10 genes linked to familial ALS and helped us understand some of the complex genetic and environmental interactions that may contribute to sporadic ALS. In this article, we chronologically summarize the genetic breakthroughs in familial and sporadic ALS and depict how it shaped our understanding of disease pathogenesis and our quest for rational therapies.
The hereditary inclusion-body myopathies encompass several syndromes with autosomal recessive or dominant inheritance. Despite a different clinical presentation they all have a progressive course leading to severe disability and share similar pathologic findings at the muscle biopsy. Quadriceps-sparing autosomal recessive hereditary inclusion-body myopathy (h-IBM) is the commonest form and is tied to mutations of the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase (GNE) that codes for a rate-limiting enzyme in the sialic acid biosynthetic pathway. Despite the identification of the causative gene defect, it has not been clarified how mutations of the GNE gene impair muscle homeostasis. Although several lines of evidence argue in favor of an abnormal sialylation of muscle glycoproteins playing a key role in h-IBM pathogenesis, others studies have demonstrated new functions of the GNE gene, outside the sialic acid biosynthetic pathway, that may also be relevant. This review illustrates the clinical and pathologic characteristics of h-IBM and the main clues available to date concerning the possible pathogenic mechanisms of this disorder. Understanding the molecular mechanism underlying h-IBM pathology is a fundamental requisite to plan a future attempt to therapy.

Subjects with Down syndrome (DS) inevitably develop histopathological features pathognomonic of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and DS can therefore be considered a human model of AD. Similar to AD, microglial activation has been reported in DS and the idea that detrimental neuroinflammation plays a key role in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration is firmly embedded. However, recent work from this laboratory has offered evidence for an alternative view regarding the role of microglial cells in AD pathogenesis by showing presence of dystrophic (senescent) rather than activated microglia in both the AD and DS brain. In this report, we build on previously published observations in human brain and offer a detailed analysis of microglial senescent pathology in the temporal cortices of 6 DS cases in their 40s, a critical age bracket where virtually all DS subjects acquire neurofibrillary degeneration characteristic of AD. Our findings using both Iba1 and anti-ferritin immunostaining of microglial cells show that coincident with the appearance of tau pathology in DS subjects there is consistent presence of dystrophic microglial cells and conspicuous absence of activated microglia using both markers. The extent of microglial pathology varied among the individual DS cases, but they all revealed decreased numbers of normal microglia ranging from 19 to 85% of the controls. Nearly all of the ferritin-positive microglia, which constitute a subset of the total Iba1-reactive microglial population, exhibited dystrophic morphology. In its most severe form dystrophy was evident as total fragmentation of the cells' cytoplasm (cytorrhexis), which likely reflects terminal degeneration of microglia. Severely dystrophic, ferritin-positive cells were often found to be colocalized with tau-positive senile plaques. Our findings help to consolidate the idea that microglial degeneration and neurofibrillary degeneration are closely linked events in a human model of AD. They suggest that microglial degeneration follows a gradually progressive course that increases in its severity in parallel with the progression of AD neurodegenerative changes.
A number of recent studies have described cases with tau-positive globular oligodendroglial inclusions (GOIs) and such cases have overlapping pathological features with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), but present with clinical features of motor neuron disease (MND) and/or frontotemporal dementia (FTD). These two clinical phenotypes have been published independently and as a result, have come to be considered as distinct disease entities. We describe the clinicopathological and biochemical features of two cases with GOIs: one with clinical symptoms suggestive of MND and the other with FTD. Histological changes in our two cases were consistent with their clinical symptoms; the MND case had severe neurodegeneration in the primary motor cortex and corticospinal tract, whereas the FTD case had severe involvement of the frontotemporal cortices and associated white matter. Immunohistochemistry in both cases revealed significant 4-repeat (4R) tau pathology primarily in the form of GOIs, but also in astrocytes and neurons. Astrocytic tau pathology was morphologically similar to that seen in PSP, but in contrast was consistently negative for Gallyas silver staining. Tau-specific western blotting revealed 68, 64 and 35kDa bands, showing further overlap with PSP. The underlying neuropathological features of these two cases were similar, with the major difference relating to the regional distribution of pathology and resulting clinical symptoms and signs. The globular nature of glial inclusions and the non-fibrillar properties of tau in astrocytes are characteristic features that allow them to be distinguished from PSP and other tauopathies. We, therefore, propose the term globular glial tauopathy as an encompassing term to classify this emerging class of 4R tauopathy.

In two experiments, we explored whether emotional context influences imitative action tendencies. To this end, we examined how emotional pictures, presented as primes, affect imitative tendencies using a compatibility paradigm. In Experiment 1, when seen index finger movements (lifting or tapping) and pre-instructed finger movements (tapping) were the same (tapping-tapping, compatible trials), participants were faster than when they were different (lifting-tapping, incompatible trials). This compatibility effect was enhanced when the seen finger movement was preceded by negative primes compared with positive or neutral primes. In Experiment 2, using only negative and neutral primes, the influence of negative primes on the compatibility effect was replicated with participants performing two types of pre-instructed finger movements (tapping and lifting). This emotional modulation of the compatibility effect was independent of the participants' trait anxiety level. Moreover, the emotional modulation pertained primarily to the compatible conditions, suggesting facilitated imitation due to negatively valent primes rather than increased interference. We speculate that negative stimuli increase imitative tendencies as a natural response in potential flight-or-fight situations.
As opportunities to use and abuse drugs have tremendously increased during the past 50 years, so has addiction research. Here, we provide a systematic review on publication trends in the addiction research field. We examined publication trends in different subject categories of journals including general and multi-disciplinary science, neuroscience, pharmacology, psychiatry and, as a final and most important category, substance abuse. In this first report, we provide a brief comprehensive overview on what has been published in terms of addiction in the general and multi-disciplinary science category versus Addiction Biology within the past decade. We reviewed the literature within three time windows 1999/2000, 2004/2005 and 2009/2010 and selected the number of publications (1) according to the country/region where the original study was conducted; (2) according to the drug classes; (3) according to animal versus human studies; (4) and in terms of methodological trends such as genetic association studies and neuro-imaging. We found a 350% increase in addiction-related publications in the general and multi-disciplinary science category within the past decade. This increase, however, was mainly due to increased publication output from the United States. Concerning drug classes, alcohol-, nicotine- and psychostimulant-related publications clearly increased between 1999 and 2010, whereas published papers related to opioids decreased over time. There were also strongly increasing trends for genetic and imaging studies in the addiction field over time. These publication trends are also reflected to a certain degree by published studies in Addiction Biology.
Research on the biology of addiction has advanced significantly over the last 50 years expanding our understanding of the brain mechanisms underlying reward, reinforcement and craving. Novel experimental approaches and techniques have provided an ever increasing armory of tools to dissect behavioral processes, neural networks and molecular mechanisms. The ultimate goal is to reintegrate this knowledge into a coherent, mechanistic framework of addiction to help identify new treatment. This can be greatly facilitated by using tools that allow, with great spatial and temporal specificity, to link molecular changes with altered activation of neural circuits and behavior. Such specificity can now be achieved by using optogenetic tools. Our review describes the general principles of optogenetics and its use to understand the links between neural activity and behavior. We also provide an overview of recent studies using optogenetic tools in addiction and consider some outstanding questions of addiction research that are particularly amenable for optogenetic approaches.
Studies have indicated that the metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) antagonist 6-methyl-2-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP) decreases ethanol self-administration, and the same receptor type was also suggested to be involved in the mechanism of action of the anti-craving substance acamprosate. Our previous research suggested that glycine receptors (GlyRs) in the nucleus accumbens (nAc) play a major part in mediating the dopamine-elevating properties of ethanol and are highly involved in the ethanol intake-reducing effect of acamprosate. The aim of this study was to examine if modulation of nAc dopamine via mGluR5 antagonism or GlyR agonism is a linked or separated phenomena. The extracellular levels of dopamine as well as of the GlyR ligands, glycine, taurine and -alanine were measured in the nAc by means of microdialysis after local perfusion of MPEP (100 or 500 M) with or without pre-treatment with strychnine. MPEP increased dopamine levels, an effect that was blocked by pre-treatment with strychnine. In addition, the higher MPEP concentration increased glycine output, whereas no alterations of taurine or -alanine were observed. These results indicate a relationship between the glutamatergic and glycinergic transmitter systems in regulating dopamine output, possibly via alteration of extracellular glycine levels. Taken together with our previous data demonstrating the importance of accumbal GlyRs both in ethanol-induced elevation of nAc dopamine and in ethanol consumption, it is plausible that the effects of MPEP treatment, on dopamine output and on ethanol intake, may be mediated via interaction with the same neuronal circuitry that previously has been demonstrated for ethanol, taurine and acamprosate.
We investigated possible alterations of pharmacologically-isolated, evoked GABA(A) inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (eIPSPs) and miniature GABA(A) inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) in the rat central amygdala (CeA) elicited by acute application of -opioid receptor (MOR) agonists (DAMGO and morphine; 1 M) and by chronic morphine treatment with morphine pellets. The acute activation of MORs decreased the amplitudes of eIPSPs, increased paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) of eIPSPs and decreased the frequency (but not the amplitude) of mIPSCs in a majority of CeA neurons, suggesting that acute MOR-dependent modulation of this GABAergic transmission is mediated predominantly via presynaptic inhibition of GABA release. We observed no significant changes in the membrane properties, eIPSPs, PPF or mIPSCs of CeA neurons during chronic morphine treatment compared to CeA of nave or sham rats. Superfusion of the MOR antagonist CTOP (1 M) increased the mean amplitude of eIPSPs in a majority of CeA neurons to the same degree in both nave/sham and morphine-treated rats, suggesting a tonic activation of MORs in both conditions. Superfusion of DAMGO decreased eIPSP amplitudes and the frequency of mIPSCs equally in both nave/sham and morphine-treated rats but decreased the amplitude of mIPSCs only in morphine treated rats, an apparent postsynaptic action. Our combined findings suggest the development of tolerance of the CeA GABAergic system to inhibitory effects of acute activation of MORs on presynaptic GABA release and possible alteration of MOR-dependent postsynaptic mechanisms that may represent important neuroadaptations of the GABAergic and MOR systems during chronic morphine treatment.

We examined the effect of women's perceptions of sexual partner risks on condom use. Women from three US cities (n = 1,967) were recruited to provide data on HIV risks. In univariate models, increased odds of condom use were associated with perceiving that partners had concurrent partners and being unaware of partners': (a) HIV status, (b) bisexuality, (c) concurrency; and/or (d) injection drug use. In multivariate models, neither being unaware of the four partner risk factors nor perceiving a partner as being high risk was associated with condom use. Contextual factors associated with decreased odds of condom use were having sex with a main partner, homelessness in the past year, alcohol use during sex, and crack use in the past 30 days. Awareness of a partner's risks may not be sufficient for increasing condom use. Contextual factors, sex with a main partner in particular, decrease condom use despite awareness of partner risk factors.







Global spatial and motion processing abilities were assessed in 18 patients with Noonan syndrome (NS) and in 43 matched controls using form and motion coherence testing, respectively. We observed a discrepancy between the two groups since the study group had significantly lower performances than the control group for form coherence while there was no impairment on motion coherence. All the patients were also assessed on the Movement Assessment Battery for Children (M-ABC) to evaluate visuomotor skills. Thirteen of the 18 (72%) also had global poor performances on the M-ABC. The results show that children with NS have a specific impairment in the global processing of visuospatial information and are likely to have a specific ventral stream deficit as also suggested by the frequent visuomotor perceptual difficulties. Testing form and motion coherence thresholds may be a useful diagnostic tool for this group of patients, despite their normal cognitive abilities, since aspects of global form processing and visuomotor perceptual difficulties can be identified and potentially targeted for a specific rehabilitation program.
A3 adenosine receptor (A3AR) is recognized as a novel therapeutic target for ischemic injury; however, the mechanism underlying anti-ischemic protection by the A3AR agonist remains unclear. Here, we report that 2-chloro-N(6)-(3-iodobenzyl)-5'-N-methylcarbamoyl-4'-thioadenosine (LJ529), a selective A3AR agonist, reduces inflammatory responses that may contribute to ischemic cerebral injury. Postischemic treatment with LJ529 markedly reduced cerebral ischemic injury caused by 1.5-hour middle cerebral artery occlusion, followed by 24-hour reperfusion in rats. This effect was abolished by the simultaneous administration of the A3AR antagonist MRS1523, but not the A2AAR antagonist SCH58261. LJ529 prevented the infiltration/migration of microglia and monocytes occurring after middle cerebral artery occlusion and reperfusion, and also after injection of lipopolysaccharides into the corpus callosum. The reduced migration of microglia by LJ529 could be related with direct inhibition of chemotaxis and down-regulation of spatiotemporal expression of Rho GTPases (including Rac, Cdc42, and Rho), rather than by biologically relevant inhibition of inflammatory cytokine/chemokine release (eg, IL-1, TNF-, and MCP-1) or by direct inhibition of excitotoxicity/oxidative stress (not affected by LJ529). The present findings indicate that postischemic activation of A3AR and the resultant reduction of inflammatory response should provide a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of ischemic stroke.
Impaired macrophage functions imposed by diabetic complications and the suppressed formation of 14S,21R-dihydroxydocosa-4Z,7Z,10Z,12E,16Z,19Z-hexaenoic acid (14S,21R-diHDHA) in wounds contribute significantly to deficient wound healing in diabetics, but how are macrophage functions and 14S,21R-diHDHA formation associated? We studied 14S,21R-diHDHA generation from macrophages using liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry. The role in macrophage-mediated wound healing functions was determined using a murine splinted excisional wound healing model and in vitro assays. 14S,21R-diHDHA acts as a macrophage-generated autacoid, and its attenuated formation in macrophages of diabetic db/db mice was accompanied by impairment of macrophage prohealing functions. 14S,21R-diHDHA restored db/db macrophage-impaired prohealing functions by promoting wound re-epithelialization, formulation of granulation tissue, and vascularization. Additionally, 12/15-lipoxygenase-deficient macrophages, which are unable to produce 14S,21R-diHDHA, exhibited impaired prohealing functions, which also were restored by 14S,21R-diHDHA treatment. The molecular mechanism for 14S,21R-diHDHA-induced recovery of impaired prohealing functions of db/db macrophages involves enhancing their secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor BB, decreasing hyperglycemia-induced generation of reactive oxygen species, and increasing IL-10 expression under inflammatory stimulation. Taken together, these results indicate that deficiency of 14S,21R-diHDHA formation by diabetic macrophages contributes to their impaired prohealing functions. Our findings provide mechanistic insights into wound healing in diabetics and suggest the possibility of using autologous macrophages/monocytes, treated with 14S,21R-diHDHA, or related compounds, to promote diabetes-impaired wound healing.
Here we report and validate a simple method for measuring intracellular activities of glial glutamine synthetase (GS) and glutaminase (GLNase) in intact glial cells. These enzymes are responsible for glutamate and glutamine recycling in the brain, where glutamate and glutamine transport from the blood stream is strongly limited by the blood-brain barrier. The intracellular levels of glutamate and glutamine are dependent on activities of numerous enzymatic processes, including 1) cytosolic production of glutamine from glutamate by GS, 2) production of glutamate from glutamine by GLNase that is primarily localized between mitochondrial membranes, and 3) mitochondrial conversion of glutamate to the tricarboxylic cycle intermediate -ketoglutarate in the reactions of oxidative deamination and transamination. We measured intracellular activities of GS and GLNase by quantifying enzymatic interconversions of L-[(3)H]glutamate and L-[(3)H]glutamine in cultured rat astrocytes. The intracellular substrate and the products of enzymatic reactions were separated in one step using commercially available anion exchange columns and quantified using a scintillation counter. The involvement of GS and GLNase in the conversion of (3)H-labeled substrates was verified using irreversible pharmacological inhibitors for each of the enzymes and additionally validated by measuring intracellular amino acid levels using an HPLC. Overall, this paper describes optimized conditions and pharmacological controls for measuring GS and GLNase activities in intact glial cells.
Brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis occurs episodically in an ultradian manner approximately every 80-100 min during the waking phase of the circadian cycle, together with highly correlated increases in brain and body temperatures, suggesting that BAT thermogenesis contributes to brain and body temperature increases. We investigated this in conscious Sprague-Dawley rats by determining whether inhibition of BAT thermogenesis via blockade of beta-3 adrenoceptors with SR59230A interrupts ultradian episodic increases in brain and body temperatures and whether SR59230A acts on BAT itself or via sympathetic neural control of BAT. Interscapular BAT (iBAT), brain, and body temperatures, tail artery blood flow, and heart rate were measured in unrestrained rats. SR59230A (1, 5, or 10 mg/kg ip), but not vehicle, decreased iBAT, body, and brain temperatures in a dose-dependent fashion (log-linear regression P &lt; 0.01, R(2) = 0.3, 0.4, and 0.4, respectively, n = 10). Ultradian increases in BAT, brain, and body temperature were interrupted by administration of SR59230A (10 mg/kg ip) compared with vehicle, resuming after 162  24 min (means  SE, n = 10). SR59230A (10 mg/kg ip) caused a transient bradycardia without any increase in tail artery blood flow. In anesthetized rats, SR59230A reduced cooling-induced increases in iBAT temperature without affecting cooling-induced increases in iBAT sympathetic nerve discharge. Inhibition of BAT thermogenesis by SR59230A, thus, reflects direct blockade of beta-3 adrenoceptors in BAT. Interruption of episodic ultradian increases in body and brain temperature by SR59230A suggests that BAT thermogenesis makes a substantial contribution to these increases.
This report addresses phylogenetic variation in a spatial skill that underlies tool use: aligning objects to a feature of a surface. Fragaszy and Cummins-Sebree's [Behavioral and Cognitive Neuroscience Reviews 4:282-306, 2005] model of relational spatial reasoning and Skill Development and Perception-Action theories guided the design of the study. We examined how capuchins and chimpanzees place stick objects of varying shapes into matching grooves on a flat surface. Although most individuals aligned the long axis of the object with the matching groove more often than expected by chance, all typically did so with poor precision. Some individuals managed to align a second feature, and only one (a capuchin monkey) achieved above-chance success at aligning three features with matching grooves. Our findings suggest that capuchins and chimpanzees do not reliably align objects along even one axis, and that neither species can reliably or easily master object placement tasks that require managing two or more spatial relations concurrently. Moreover, they did not systematically vary their behavior in a manner that would aid discovery of the affordances of the stick-surface combination beyond sliding the stick along the surface (which may have provided haptic information about the location of the groove). These limitations have profound consequences for the forms of tool use we can expect these individuals to master.
A subset of workers in swine confinement facilities develops chronic respiratory disease. An aqueous extract of dust from these facilities (hogbarn dust extract [HDE]) induces IL-6 and IL-8 release and several other responses in isolated airway epithelial cells. The cell membrane receptors by which HDE initiates these responses have not been identified. Because several other inhaled agents induce airway epithelial cell responses through epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) activation, we hypothesized that HDE would activate EGFRs and that EGFRs would be required for some of the responses to HDE. Exposure of Beas-2B cells to HDE caused EGFR phosphorylation and downstream ERK activation, and both responses were blocked by the EGFR-selective kinase inhibitor AG1478. AG1478 and EGFR-neutralizing antibody reduced HDE-stimulated IL-6 and IL-8 release by about half. Similar EGFR phosphorylation and requirement of EGFRs for maximal IL-6 and IL-8 release were found with primary isolates of human bronchial epithelial cells. Because HDE-stimulated IL-6 and IL-8 release involve the Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase C, we hypothesized that HDE would induce intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization. HDE exposure induced intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization in Beas-2B cells and in primary cell isolates, but this response was neither mimicked by EGF nor inhibited by AG1478. Thus, HDE activates EGFRs and their downstream signaling, and EGFR activation is required for some but not all airway epithelial cell responses to HDE.
Chagas disease is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, which is transmitted to humans by blood-sucking triatomine insects. This disease is endemic throughout Mexico and Central and South America, but only a few autochthonous cases have been reported in the United States, despite the fact that infected insects readily invade houses and feed on humans. Competent vectors defecate during or shortly after feeding so that infective feces contact the host. We thus studied the feeding and defecation behaviors of the prevalent species in southern Arizona, Triatoma rubida. We found that whereas defecation during feeding was frequent in females (93%), it was very rare in immature stages (3%), and absent in males. Furthermore, more than half of the immature insects that exhibited multiple feeding bouts (62%) defecated during interruptions of feeding, i.e., while likely on or near the host. These results indicate that T. rubida potentially could transmit T. cruzi to humans.
Recent work has demonstrated the impact of dysfunction of the GABAergic signaling system in brain and the resultant behavioral pathologies in subjects with autism. In animal models, altered expression of Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) has been linked to downregulation of GABA receptors. Interestingly, the autistic phenotype is also observed in individuals with Fragile X syndrome. This study was undertaken to test previous theories relating abnormalities in levels of FMRP to GABA(A) receptor underexpression. We observed a significant reduction in levels of FMRP in the vermis of adults with autism. Additionally, we found that levels of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) protein were significantly increased in vermis of children with autism versus age and postmortem interval matched controls. There was also a significant decrease in level of GABA(A) receptor beta 3 (GABR3) protein in vermis of adult subjects with autism. Finally, we found significant increases in glial fibrillary acidic protein in vermis of both children and adults with autism when compared with controls. Taken together, our results provide further evidence that altered FMRP expression and increased mGluR5 protein production potentially lead to altered expression of GABA(A) receptors.
Autism is a pervasive developmental disorder characterized by repetitive stereotyped behavior, social-emotional deficits, and delayed or absent language abilities. There are known neuropathologies in the autism brain affecting limbic, cerebellar, and cortical structures but the neurochemical profile of affected individuals, revealed in postmortem tissue studies, is only recently emerging. One major component that appears highly impacted in autism is the GABAergic system. It is now apparent that there are widespread significant effects in many distributed regions in the autism brain revealed by histochemical, autoradiographic, and biochemical studies. The key synthesizing enzymes for GABA, glutamic acid decarboxylase type 65 and 67 (GAD65 and GAD67), are decreased in the cerebellum and closer examination of mRNA levels revealed that it is largely due to decreases in Purkinje cells and a subpopulation of larger dentate neurons as measured by in situ hybridization studies. Other cell types had either normal GAD levels (Golgi cells, smaller dentate interneurons, and stellate cells) or increased levels (basket cells). GABA receptor density, number, and protein expression are all decreased in the cerebellum and in select cortical areas. GABA(A) and GABA(B) subunit protein expression was significantly reduced in cerebellum, BA 9 and BA 40. Benzodiazepine binding sites were significantly reduced in the hippocampus and anterior cingulate cortex (BA 24). Taken together, data from these studies suggest that there is a marked dysregulation of the inhibitory GABA system in the autism brain affecting particular biomarkers localized to specific cell types and lamina likely influencing circuitry and behavior.

Hip fracture is an important step in the autonomy evolution in elderly. As gait is particularly jeopardised after such a traumatism, cognition may also be acutely impaired. Elderly post-surgery delirium is frequent, but chronic progression of cognitive impairment and dementia may occur. The concept of cognitive reserve is crucial for understanding risk factors of post-surgery delirium in elderly. The more the cognitive reserve is decreased before such a traumatism, the higher the delirium and dementia progression risk is. A neurodegenerative disease such as Alzheimer's disease may be clinically silent prior the traumatic event, and may decompensate soon after as the cognitive reserve is not sufficient anymore. Dementia may then lead to progressive autonomy loss. A systematic interdisciplinary approach is needed to prevent frail patients from delirium, and to early cure it to decrease the risk of long-term autonomy loss.
The present article is a treatise on the illuminating voyage of a Neurophysician along the fascinating horizons and frontiers of neurosciences. During the career as a clinical neurologist, some very interesting and intriguing cases and issues were dealt with and documented scientifically. The working of the brain and its operational architectonics came up for critical analysis, opening up new vistas in the appreciation and management of various neurological disorders. Issues regarding the working of the mind and the guidelines for health and happiness became apparent, and some very interesting generalizations with far-reaching consequences on the general well-being and health have been formulated and put forward for a healthy and happy future for mankind. A paradigm shift is warranted for a closer and better appreciation of neural dynamics at all levels of the brain, namely microscopic, mesoscopic and macroscopic levels!
Sponsored by the New York Academy of Sciences and with support from the National Institute of Mental Health, the Life Technologies Foundation, and the Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation, &quot;Advancing Drug Discovery for Schizophrenia&quot; was held March 9-11 at the New York Academy of Sciences in New York City. The meeting, comprising individual talks and panel discussions, highlighted basic, clinical, and translational research approaches, all of which contribute to the overarching goal of enhancing the pharmaceutical armamentarium for treating schizophrenia. This report surveys work by the vanguard of schizophrenia research in such topics as genetic and epigenetic approaches; small molecule therapeutics; and the relationships between target genes, neuronal function, and symptoms of schizophrenia.
Moderated by Krista Tippett, creator and host of America Public Media's On Being, philosophers Thomas Metzinger (University of Mainz, Germany) and Evan Thompson (University of Toronto) join cardiologist and expert on near-death experiences Pim van Lommel (Hospital Rijnstate, the Netherlands) to examine recent developments in neuroscience and philosophy that shed light on whether our conscious experience of a unified self is reality or illusion. The following is an edited transcript of the discussion that occurred December 7, 2010, 6:00-7:30 PM, at the New York Academy of Sciences in New York City.



Genetic studies have shown an association between schizophrenia and a GAG trinucleotide repeat (TNR) polymorphism in the catalytic subunit (GCLC) of the glutamate cysteine ligase (GCL), the key enzyme for glutathione (GSH) synthesis. The present study was aimed at analyzing the influence of a GSH dysregulation of genetic origin on plasma thiols (total cysteine, homocysteine, and cysteine-glycine) and other free amino acid levels as well as fibroblast cultures GSH levels. Plasma thiols levels were also compared between patients and controls. As compared with patients with a low-risk GCLC GAG TNR genotype, patients with a high-risk genotype, having an impaired GSH synthesis, displayed a decrease of fibroblast GSH and plasma total cysteine levels, and an increase of the oxidized form of cysteine (cystine) content. Increased levels of plasma free serine, glutamine, citrulline, and arginine were also observed in the high-risk genotype. Taken together, the high-risk genotypes were associated with a subgroup of schizophrenia characterized by altered plasma thiols and free amino acid levels that reflect a dysregulation of redox control and an increased susceptibility to oxidative stress. This altered pattern potentially contributes to the development of a biomarker profile useful for early diagnosis and monitoring the effectiveness of novel drugs targeting redox dysregulation in schizophrenia.


To assess the measurement invariance of the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) 2months after delivery in 656 English-speaking immigrant and non-immigrant women who had at least one other child under 16 and who gave birth in one of two urban Canadian centers. We also compared levels of depression in these two groups using this scale. Multiple group confirmatory factor analysis showed that configural, metric and partial scalar invariances were present and allowed for meaningful substantive comparisons to be made between immigrants and non-immigrants using linear and logistic regressions on an invariant 15-item version of the scale. We observed a novel 4-factor structure for the CES-D in postpartum women and established a 15-item version of this scale that was invariant across immigrant and non-immigrant groups. This suggests that women conceptualize postpartum depression (PPD) in similar ways using the 15-item version of this scale and that meaningful substantive comparisons can be made using it. Indeed, immigrants manifested higher levels of depressive symptoms than non-immigrants (unstandardized b=1.34, p=0.02) and an increased risk of being a potential case of PPD (OR=2.16, 95%CI 1.10-4.19), even after adjustment for other risk factors. Immigrant and non-immigrant women appear to conceptualize PPD in similar ways using this 15-item version of the CES-D. Immigrants may develop more depressive symptoms and be at increased risk of developing an episode of PPD.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a complex network of scaffolding molecules that also plays an important role in cell signalling, migration and tissue structure. In the central nervous system (CNS), the ECM is integral to the efficient development/guidance and survival of neurons and axons. However, changes in distribution of the ECM in the CNS may significantly enhance pathology in CNS disease or following injury. One group of ECM proteins that is important for CNS homeostasis is the chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CSPGs). Up-regulation of these molecules has been demonstrated to be both desirable and detrimental following CNS injury. Taking cues from arthritis, where there is a strong anti-CSPG immune response, there is evidence that suggests that CSPGs may influence immunity during CNS pathological conditions. This review focuses on the role of CSPGs in CNS pathologies as well as in immunity, both from a viewpoint of how they may inhibit repair and exacerbate damage in the CNS, and how they are involved in activation and function of peripheral immune cells, particularly in multiple sclerosis. Lastly, we address how CSPGs may be manipulated to improve disease outcomes.
Epidemiological studies have shown that a poor vitamin D status is associated with an increased risk of several diseases, including autoimmune diseases. The immune regulatory function of vitamin D is thought to have an important role in these associations. Cells of the adaptive immune system have shown to be direct targets of the vitamin D metabolites. Besides being direct targets, cells of the adaptive immune system express the enzymes involved in the metabolism of vitamin D, enabling them to locally convert 25(OH)D into its active metabolite 1,25(OH)2D. In this review, the effects of vitamin D on cells of the adaptive immune system are described. Experimental data in vitro show that vitamin D skews cells of the adaptive immune system toward a more tolerogenic status which might be exploited in the treatment of autoimmune diseases. However, it should be noticed that in vivo effects may differ from in vitro effects due to the cross-talk between different vitamin D sensitive cells, but data support the view that vitamin D is positively involved in maintaining or restoring immune homeostasis. Upcoming vitamin D supplementation trials will further elucidate the in vivo effects of vitamin D on the immune system and its potency to serve as an immune regulating agent in autoimmune diseases.
The present experiment assessed whether prenatal stress (PS) can alter the ability of acute and chronic cocaine administration to increase and decrease the rewarding effectiveness of the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) using intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS), and also whether PS can affect the extinction of the MFB stimulation response. Adult male offspring of female rats that received PS or no PS (nPS) were implanted with MFB stimulating electrodes, and were then tested in ICSS paradigms. In both nPS and PS offspring, acute cocaine injection decreased ICSS thresholds dose-dependently. However, the threshold-lowering effects at any dose were not significantly different between groups. There was also no group-difference in the threshold-elevating effects of chronic cocaine administration. Nevertheless, chronically drug-administered PS rats exhibited a resistance to the extinguishing of the response for brain-stimulation reward when acutely treated with cocaine, as compared to extinction without cocaine treatment. The results suggest that PS may weaken the ability for response inhibition under cocaine loading in male adult offspring.

Prior studies have supported a role for mesolimbic dopaminergic mechanisms in the regulation of maternal behavior. Accordingly, the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and its dopaminergic projections to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) have been implicated in both the onset and maintenance of normal maternal behavior. To date, studies of direct manipulation of VTA neurochemistry at the onset of maternal behavior have been limited. The current study was undertaken to directly test the hypothesis that enhancement of dopaminergic transmission in the mesolimbic dopamine system can stimulate maternal activity using a pup-induced virgin model. Nulliparous female rats were stereotaxically infused with pertussis toxin (PTX 0, 0.1, or 0.3 g/hemisphere) into the VTA to chronically stimulate the activity of dopaminergic projection neurons. After 3 days of recovery, maternal responding to donor pups was tested daily, and latency (in days) to full maternal behavior was recorded. Intra-VTA PTX treatment produced a robust dose-dependent decrease in maternal behavior latency, and a long-lasting increase in locomotor activity. These effects were associated with significantly decreased dopamine D1 receptor mRNA expression in the NAc. No effects of PTX treatment on mesolimbic dopamine utilization or mPFC receptor expression were observed. The findings indicate that chronic neural activation in the VTA accelerates the onset of maternal behavior in virgin female rats via modification of the NAc dopamine D1 receptor.
Contingency learning is essential for establishing predictive or causal judgements. Retrospective revaluation captures essential aspects of the updating of this knowledge, according to new experience. In the present study, retrospective revaluation and its neural substrate was investigated in a rat conditioned magazine approach. One element of a previously food-reinforced Tone-Light compound stimulus was either further reinforced (inflation) or extinguished (extinction). These treatments affected the predictive value of the alternate stimulus (target), but only when the target was a weakly salient stimulus such as a Light, and the inflation/extinction procedure concerned the more salient element, that is the Tone. As the predictive value of the Light was decreased in comparison with a relevant control group, this revaluation was interpreted as backward blocking, and not unovershadowing. This observation challenges retrospective revaluation models focused on acquisition and prediction error detection, and is better accounted for by retrieval-based associative theories such as the comparator model (Miller and Matzel) [5]. Immunohistochemical detection of the Fos protein after the test phase revealed activation of the orbitofrontal and infralimbic cortices as well as nucleus accumbens core and shell, in rats that exhibited retrospective revaluation. Our results suggest that rats integrate successive experiences at the retrieval stage of retrospective revaluation, and that prefronto-accumbal interactions are involved in this function.
Mice and rats are often used interchangeably in neuroscience research. However, species differences in brain structure and connectivity exist within the medial temporal lobe circuits that contribute to learning and memory. The hippocampus in particular contributes to both spatial learning and recognition memory, but the extent to which rats and mice are comparable in these two cognitive domains remains unclear. To evaluate potential species differences in spatial memory and object recognition, young adult male Sprague-Dawley rats and male C57Bl/6J mice were tested in the water maze and novel object recognition tasks. Following six days of training, with four trials per day, there was no difference in the ability of rats and mice to learn the location of a hidden platform. However, rats performed better than mice on the probe trial, indicative of superior retention. In the novel object preference test, no species differences in recognition memory were detected, although rats spent more time exploring the arena and took longer to approach the objects. These observations suggest that while species differences in spatial memory retention are present, they do not correlate with differences in object recognition memory.
Accumulating evidence proposes that the striatum, known to control voluntary movement, may also play a role in learning and memory. Striatum learning is thought to require long-lasting reorganization of striatal circuits and changes in the strength of synaptic connections during the memorization of a complex motor task. Whether the ionotropic glutamate receptor N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDAR) contributes to the molecular mechanisms of these memory processes is still unclear. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of striatal NMDAR and its subunit composition during the learning of the accelerating rotarod task in mice. To this end, we injected directly into the dorsal striatum of mice, via chronically implanted cannula, the NMDAR channel blocker MK-801 as well as the NR2A and NR2B subunit-selective antagonists NVP-AAM077 and Ro 25-6981, respectively, before rotarod training. There was no effect in the motor performances of mice treated with 1.0 g/side of MK-801, 0.1 g/side of NVP-AAM077, or 5 and 10 g/side of Ro 25-6981. In contrast, injections of 2.5 and 5 g/side of MK-801 or 0.5 and 1 g/side of NVP-AAM077 impaired motor learning at Day 3 and 8. Interestingly, treatments with MK-801 and NVP-AAM077 did not alter the general motor capacities of mice as revealed by the stepping, wire suspension, and pole tests. Our study demonstrates that the NMDAR of the dorsal striatum contributes to motor learning, especially during the slow acquisition phase, and that NR2A subunits play a critical role in this process.
Adolescent exposure to anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS) alters the development and activity of the glutamate neural system in the latero-anterior hypothalamus (LAH) in hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus); that is, an important neural component of the adolescent AAS-induced aggressive response. In this article, we used retrograde tracing to investigate glutamate-specific alterations in the connections between the LAH and several other nuclei implicated in adolescent AAS-induced aggression. Briefly, hamsters were treated with AAS or sesame-oil control during adolescence and then microinjected with retrograde tracer into the medial amygdala (MeA), lateral septum (LS), or bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). Brains were then processed for vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) and examined for AAS-induced changes in the number VGLUT2 cells containing retrograde tracer (VGLUT2/tracer) within the LAH. It is interesting to note that while aggressive AAS-treated hamsters injected retrograde tracer into the MeA showed a significant reduction in the number of VGLUT2/tracer cells in the LAH, aggressive AAS-treated hamsters injected tracer into the BNST showed a significant increase in the number of VGLUT2/tracer cells in the LAH when compared with controls. Last, AAS hamsters injected with tracer into the LS had a comparable number of LAH-VGLUT2/tracer cells to controls. The current results indicate that glutamate likely functions as the major aggression output system from the LAH and that adolescent AAS treatment significantly alters the neural circuitry modulating aggression. Moreover, increases in the number of glutamate projections from the LAH to the BNST in AAS hamsters identify the BNST as an area particularly important for the regulation of AAS-induced aggression.
There is increasing concern about abuse of propofol, a widely-used surgical anesthetic and sedative that is currently not a controlled substance. The purpose of this study was to establish a rat model of the psychoactive effect of subanesthetic doses of propofol that could be useful for confirming abuse liability and for studying mechanisms of propofol abuse. Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to discriminate propofol (10 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) from vehicle (2% methylcellulose). Carisoprodol (100 mg/kg), chlordiazepoxide (10 mg/kg), and dizocilpine (0.1 mg/kg) were tested for substitution for the discriminative-stimulus effects of propofol (10 mg/kg), whereas pentylenetetrazol (10 mg/kg) was tested for antagonism of the discriminative-stimulus effects. Propofol (10 mg/kg) was tested for substitution in rats trained to discriminate carisoprodol from vehicle. Carisoprodol produced 59% propofol-appropriate responding, chlordiazepoxide produced 65% propofol-appropriate responding, and dizocilpine produced 34% propofol-appropriate responding. Pentylenetetrazol decreased propofol-appropriate responding to 41%. Propofol produced 52% carisoprodol-appropriate responding. Mortality rate during training of propofol (10 mg/kg) was 38%. Postmortem examination revealed cardiovascular abnormalities similar to those observed in propofol-infusion syndrome in humans. The results demonstrate that propofol can be trained as a discriminative stimulus. Its discriminative-stimulus effects were more similar to compounds promoting -aminobutyric acid-A receptor activity than to a compound inhibiting N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor activity. As propofol has discriminative-stimulus effects similar to known drugs of abuse, and occasions a high-mortality rate, its potential for continued abuse is of particular concern.
Little is known about the phenomenology of pediatric loss of control (LOC) eating. Overvaluation of shape and weight, however, appears to be diagnostically meaningful among binge eating adults. We explored the significance of shape and weight overvaluation among children and adolescents with LOC eating. Participants (n = 526) included 149 overweight youth with LOC eating and 377 overweight controls (CON). Participants were categorized as those reporting at least moderate overvaluation (LOC-Mod, n = 74; CON-Mod, n = 106) or less than moderate overvaluation (LOC-Low, n = 75; CON-Low, n = 271), and compared on measures of eating-related and general psychopathology. LOC-Mod evidenced lower self-esteem than CON-Low, and greater behavioral problems than CON-Mod and CON-Low, but did not differ from LOC-Low in these domains. With the exception of LOC-Low and CON-Mod, all groups differed on global eating-disorder severity, with LOC-Mod scoring the highest. Overvaluation of shape and weight appears to be of questionable importance in defining subtypes of youth with LOC eating. However, as overvaluation and LOC eating each independently predicts eating-disorder onset, their confluence may confer even further risk for eating-disorder development. Longitudinal studies should address this possibility. Developmentally appropriate discussion about body image disturbance may be indicated in interventions targeting pediatric LOC eating and/or obesity.
Psychological trauma in childhood has been shown to increase a variety of psychological disturbances and psychiatric disorders. Although evidence-based treatments for children who have been traumatized exist, they are infrequently used by clinicians treating children. The present paper describes the creation of the Treatment Collaborative for Traumatized Youth (TCTY) which is a statewide partnership in North Dakota designed to disseminate efficacious treatments for traumatized children and monitor outcomes across a broad, rural, geographic expanse. The paper reviews the dissemination strategy developed by the TCTY, reports outcomes regarding both clinicians and child participants, and highlights problems identified in the project and solutions that were generated.
Mutations in the X-linked gene MECP2 (methyl CpG-binding protein 2) are the primary cause of the neurodevelopmental disorder RTT (Rett syndrome), and are also implicated in other neurological conditions. The expression product of this gene, MeCP2, is a widely expressed nuclear protein, especially abundant in mature neurons of the CNS (central nervous system). The major recognized consequences of MECP2 mutation occur in the CNS, but there is growing awareness of peripheral effects contributing to the full RTT phenotype. MeCP2 is classically considered to act as a DNA methylation-dependent transcriptional repressor, but may have additional roles in regulating gene expression and chromatin structure. Knocking out Mecp2 function in mice recapitulates many of the overt neurological features seen in RTT patients, and the characteristic postnatally delayed onset of symptoms is accompanied by aberrant neuronal morphology and deficits in synaptic physiology. Evidence that reactivation of endogenous Mecp2 in mutant mice, even at adult stages, can reverse aspects of RTT-like pathology and result in apparently functionally mature neurons has provided renewed hope for patients, but has also provoked discussion about traditional boundaries between neurodevelopmental disorders and those involving dysfunction at later stages. In the present paper we review the neurobiology of MeCP2 and consider the various genetic (including gene therapy), pharmacological and environmental interventions that have been, and could be, developed to attempt phenotypic rescue in RTT. Such approaches are already providing valuable insights into the potential tractability of RTT and related conditions, and are useful pointers for the development of future therapeutic strategies.
It is unclear what proportion of a G-protein-coupled receptor is present in cells as dimers or oligomers. Saturation bioluminescence resonance energy transfer studies demonstrated the orexin OX(1) receptor to be present in such complexes. Forms of this receptor containing a minimal epitope tag, with the C-terminus linked to yellow fluorescent protein or modified at the N-terminus to incorporate a SNAP tag, migrated in SDS/PAGE gels as monomers, indicating a lack of covalent interactions. Solubilization with dodecylmaltoside, followed by Blue native-PAGE, indicated that the receptor constructs migrated predominantly as anticipated for dimeric species with evidence for further, higher-order, complexes, and this was true over a wide range of expression levels. Addition of SDS prior to separation by Blue native-PAGE resulted in much of the previously dimeric, and all of the higher-order, complexes being dissociated and now migrating at the size predicted for monomeric species. Expression of forms of the OX(1) receptor capable of generating enzyme complementation confirmed that solubilization itself did not result in interaction artefacts. Addition of the endogenous agonist orexin A enhanced the proportion of higher-order OX(1) receptor complexes, whereas selective OX(1) antagonists increased the proportion the OX(1) receptor migrating in Blue native-PAGE as a monomer. The antagonist effects were produced in a concentration-dependent manner, consistent with the affinity of the ligands for the receptor. Homogeneous time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer studies using Tag-Lite reagents on cells expressing the SNAP-tagged OX(1) receptor identified cell-surface OX(1) homomers. Predominantly at low receptor expression levels, orexin A increased such fluorescence resonance energy transfer signals, also consistent with ligand-induced reorganization of the homomeric complex.
PITPs [PI (phosphatidylinositol) transfer proteins] bind and transfer PI between intracellular membranes and participate in many cellular processes including signalling, lipid metabolism and membrane traffic. The largely uncharacterized PITP RdgB (PITPNC1; retinal degeneration type B ), contains a long C-terminal disordered region following its defining N-terminal PITP domain. In the present study we report that the C-terminus contains two tandem phosphorylated binding sites (Ser(274) and Ser(299)) for 14-3-3. The C-terminus also contains PEST sequences which are shielded by 14-3-3 binding. Like many proteins containing PEST sequences, the levels of RdgB are regulated by proteolysis. RdgB is degraded with a half-life of 4 h following ubiquitination via the proteasome. A mutant RdgB which is unable to bind 14-3-3 is degraded even faster with a half-life of 2 h. In vitro, RdgB is 100-fold less active than PITP for PI transfer, and RdgB proteins (wild-type and a mutant that cannot bind 14-3-3) expressed in COS-7 cells or endogenous proteins from heart cytosol do not exhibit transfer activity. When cells are treated with PMA, the PITP domain of RdgB interacts with the integral membrane protein ATRAP (angiotensin II type I receptor-associated protein; also known as AGTRAP) causing membrane recruitment. We suggest that RdgB executes its function following recruitment to membranes via its PITP domain and the C-terminal end of the protein could regulate entry to the hydrophobic cavity.

Waves are common in cortical networks and may be important for carrying information about a stimulus from one local circuit to another. In a recent study of visually evoked waves in rat cortex, compression and reflection of waves are observed as the activation passes from visual areas V1 to V2. The authors of this study apply bicuculline (BMI) and demonstrate that the reflection disappears. They conclude that inhibition plays a major role in compression and reflection. We present several models for propagating waves in heterogeneous media and show that the velocity and thus compression depends weakly on inhibition. We propose that the main site of action of BMI with respect to wave propagation is on the threshold for firing which we suggest is related to action on potassium channels. We combine numerical and analytic methods to explore both compression and reflection in an excitable system with synaptic coupling.
Stationarity is a crucial yet rarely questioned assumption in the analysis of time series of magneto- (MEG) or electroencephalography (EEG). One key drawback of the commonly used tests for stationarity of encephalographic time series is the fact that conclusions on stationarity are only indirectly inferred either from the Gaussianity (e.g. the Shapiro-Wilk test or Kolmogorov-Smirnov test) or the randomness of the time series and the absence of trend using very simple time-series models (e.g. the sign and trend tests by Bendat and Piersol). We present a novel approach to the analysis of the stationarity of MEG and EEG time series by applying modern statistical methods which were specifically developed in econometrics to verify the hypothesis that a time series is stationary. We report our findings of the application of three different tests of stationarity--the Kwiatkowski-Phillips-Schmidt-Schin (KPSS) test for trend or mean stationarity, the Phillips-Perron (PP) test for the presence of a unit root and the White test for homoscedasticity--on an illustrative set of MEG data. For five stimulation sessions, we found already for short epochs of duration of 250 and 500 ms that, although the majority of the studied epochs of single MEG trials were usually mean-stationary (KPSS test and PP test), they were classified as nonstationary due to their heteroscedasticity (White test). We also observed that the presence of external auditory stimulation did not significantly affect the findings regarding the stationarity of the data. We conclude that the combination of these tests allows a refined analysis of the stationarity of MEG and EEG time series.


Experimental and clinical evidence have demonstrated the increased synthesis of specific inflammatory mediators, and the upregulation of their cognate receptors in the chronic epileptic brain, indicating that some proinflammatory pathways are activated in seizure foci. Inhibition of experimental seizures by pharmacological interference with specific proinflammatory signaling, together with evidence of changes in intrinsic susceptibility to seizures in transgenic mice with perturbed inflammatory pathways, was instrumental to establish the concept that brain inflammation has a role in the etiopathogenesis of seizures. Increasing evidence also highlights the possible involvement of inflammatory processes arising in the injured brain in the development of epilepsy (i.e., in epileptogenesis). Since brain inflammation in epilepsy is not a mere epiphenomenon of the pathology but is likely involved in the mechanisms underlying neuronal hyperexcitability, the onset of seizures and their recurrence, it might be considered as a biomarker of disease development and severity, and, as such, could be used for diagnostic, prognostic or therapeutic purposes, provided that adequate noninvasive methodologies are developed to detect and quantify brain inflammation in humans.
Effectively bridging the lesion gap is still an unmet demand for spinal cord repair. In the present study, we tested our hypothesis if cograft of Schwann cells (SCs) and neural stem cells (NSCs) with genetically enhanced expression of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and its high affinity receptor TrkC, respectively, could strengthen neural repair through increased NSC survival and neuronal differentiation at the epicenter after complete T10 spinal cord transection in adult rats. Transplantation of NT-3-SCs+TrkC-NSCs in Gelfoam (110(6)/implant/rat; n=10) into the lesion gap immediately following injury results in significantly improved relay of the cortical motor evoked potential (CMEP) and cortical somatosensory evoked potential (CSEP) as well as ameliorated hindlimb deficits, relative to controls (treated with LacZ-SCs+LacZ-NSCs, NT-3-SCs+NSCs, NSCs alone, or lesion only; n=10/group). Further analyses demonstrate that NT-3-SCs+TrkC-NSCs cografting augments levels of neuronal differentiation of NSCs, synaptogenesis (including inhibitory/type II-like synapses) and myelin formation of SCs, in addition to neuroprotection and outgrowth of serotonergic fibers in the lesioned spinal cord. Compared with controls, the treated spinal cords also show elevated expression of laminin, a pro-neurogenic factor, and decreased presence of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, major inhibitors of axonal growth and neuroplasticity. Together, our data suggests that coimplantation of neurologically compatible cells with compensatorily overexpressed therapeutic genes may constitute a valuable approach to study, and/or develop therapies for spinal cord injury (SCI).
The NMJ (neuromuscular junction) serves as the ultimate output of the motor neurons. The NMJ is composed of a presynaptic nerve terminal, a postsynaptic muscle and perisynaptic glial cells. Emerging evidence has also demonstrated an existence of perisynaptic fibroblast-like cells at the NMJ. In this review, we discuss the importance of Schwann cells, the glial component of the NMJ, in the formation and function of the NMJ. During development, Schwann cells are closely associated with presynaptic nerve terminals and are required for the maintenance of the developing NMJ. After the establishment of the NMJ, Schwann cells actively modulate synaptic activity. Schwann cells also play critical roles in regeneration of the NMJ after nerve injury. Thus, Schwann cells are indispensable for formation and function of the NMJ. Further examination of the interplay among Schwann cells, the nerve and the muscle will provide insights into a better understanding of mechanisms underlying neuromuscular synapse formation and function.
PD (Parkinson's disease) is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder. Mutations in LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) gene are linked to the most common inherited and sporadic PD. Overexpression of LRRK2 and its mutants could induce mitochondrial-dependent neuronal apoptosis. However, the underlying mechanism remains elusive. We have identified several novel LRRK2 interacting proteins and showed that LRRK2 can interact with three components of the PTPC (permeability transition pore complex) including ANT (adenine nucleotide translocator), VDAC (voltage-dependent anion channel) and uMtCK [ubiquitous MtCK (mitochondrial creatine kinase)]. Those components have been reported to be involved in the permeability of mitochondrial membrane. We provide evidence that LRRK2 is likely to interact with uMtCK directly and expression of LRRK2 and its mutant form can suppress the processing of the immature form of uMtCK. LRRK2 expression keeps the uMtCK preprotein on the outer mitochondrial membrane instead of entering the mitochondria. In addition, the expression of both wild-type and mutant forms of LRRK2 promotes the interaction between ANT and VDAC, which plays a role in permeabilization transition pore opening. Finally, LRRK2-induced cell death can be suppressed by uMtCK. Our findings imply that LRRK2 can interact directly with uMtCK to block its entry into mitochondria and its subsequent processing, resulting in inhibition of mitochondrial energy channelling. Meanwhile, the decrease of uMtCK in mitochondria results in elevated interaction between ANT and VDAC and leads to neuronal apoptosis. Thus, our study provides the rational for clinical trials using creatine to treat PD and supports the notion of exploiting LRRK2 as a drug target for PD.
Due to its high external and low internal concentration the Ca(2+) ion is used ubiquitously as an intracellular signaling molecule, and a great many Ca(2+)-sensing proteins have evolved to receive and propagate Ca(2+) signals. Among them are ion channel proteins, whose Ca(2+) sensitivity allows internal Ca(2+) to influence the electrical activity of cell membranes and to feedback-inhibit further Ca(2+) entry into the cytoplasm. In this review I will describe what is understood about the Ca(2+) sensing mechanisms of the three best studied classes of Ca(2+)-sensitive ion channels: Large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels, small-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels, and voltage- gated Ca(2+) channels. Great strides in mechanistic understanding have be made for each of these channel types in just the past few years.
Bone mineral density (BMD) is a complex trait that is the single best predictor of the risk of osteoporotic fractures. Candidate gene and genome-wide association studies have identified genetic variations in approximately 30 genetic loci associated with BMD variation in humans. -Actinin-3 (ACTN3) is highly expressed in fast skeletal muscle fibres. There is a common null-polymorphism R577X in human ACTN3 that results in complete deficiency of the -actinin-3 protein in approximately 20% of Eurasians. Absence of -actinin-3 does not cause any disease phenotypes in muscle because of compensation by -actinin-2. However, -actinin-3 deficiency has been shown to be detrimental to athletic sprint/power performance. In this report we reveal additional functions for -actinin-3 in bone. -Actinin-3 but not -actinin-2 is expressed in osteoblasts. The Actn3(-/-) mouse displays significantly reduced bone mass, with reduced cortical bone volume (-14%) and trabecular number (-61%) seen by microCT. Dynamic histomorphometry indicated this was due to a reduction in bone formation. In a cohort of postmenopausal Australian women, ACTN3 577XX genotype was associated with lower BMD in an additive genetic model, with the R577X genotype contributing 1.1% of the variance in BMD. Microarray analysis of cultured osteoprogenitors from Actn3(-/-) mice showed alterations in expression of several genes regulating bone mass and osteoblast/osteoclast activity, including Enpp1, Opg and Wnt7b. Our studies suggest that ACTN3 likely contributes to the regulation of bone mass through alterations in bone turnover. Given the high frequency of R577X in the general population, the potential role of ACTN3 R577X as a factor influencing variations in BMD in elderly humans warrants further study.
Joseph Babinski (1857-1932), a French neurologist of Polish descent, was the first person to describe extension of the big toe following stimulation of the sole of the foot on 22 February 1896 (Babinski, 1896). He referred to the sign as 'phnomne des orteils' (toes phenomenon) but it is now usually referred to eponymously as the 'Babinski sign' or descriptively as the extensor plantar response.
Anterior communicating artery (AcomA) aneurysm presenting with rapidly progressing monocular visual loss is rare. We present one such case masquerading as retrobulbar optic neuritis, with no improvement following steroid therapy. Monocular blindness was due to compression of the optic nerve by a large AcomA aneurysm, which was detected after rupture.
This issue of the British Journal of Pharmacology is dedicated to reviews of the major animal models used in neuropharmacology to examine drugs for both neurological and psychiatric conditions. Almost all major conditions are reviewed. In general, regulatory authorities require evidence for the efficacy of novel compounds in appropriate animal models. However, the failure of many compounds in clinical trials following clear demonstration of efficacy in animal models has called into question both the value of the models and the discovery process in general. These matters are expertly reviewed in this issue and proposals for better models outlined. In this editorial, we further suggest that more attention be made to incorporate pharmacokinetic knowledge into the studies (quantitative pharmacology). We also suggest that more attention be made to ensure that full methodological details are published and recommend that journals should be more amenable to publishing negative data. Finally, we propose that new approaches must be used in drug discovery so that preclinical studies become more reflective of the clinical situation, and studies using animal models mimic the anticipated design of studies to be performed in humans, as closely as possible.
This review describes the most commonly used rodent models and outcome measures in preclinical stroke research and discusses their strengths and limitations. Most models involve permanent or transient middle cerebral artery occlusion with therapeutic agents tested for their ability to reduce stroke-induced infarcts and improve neurological deficits. Many drugs have demonstrated preclinical efficacy but, other than thrombolytics, which restore blood flow, none have demonstrated efficacy in clinical trials. This failure to translate efficacy from bench to bedside is discussed alongside achievable steps to improve the ability of preclinical research to predict clinical efficacy: (i) Improvements in study quality and reporting. Study design must include randomization, blinding and predefined inclusion/exclusion criteria, and journal editors have the power to ensure statements on these and mortality data are included in preclinical publications. (ii) Negative and neutral studies must be published to enable preclinical meta-analyses and systematic reviews to more accurately predict drug efficacy in man. (iii) Preclinical groups should work within networks and agree on standardized procedures for assessing final infarct and functional outcome. This will improve research quality, timeliness and translational capacity. (iv) Greater uptake and improvements in non-invasive diagnostic imaging to detect and study potentially salvageable penumbral tissue, the target for acute neuroprotection. Drug effects on penumbra lifespan studied serially, followed by assessment of behavioural outcome and infarct within in the same animal group, will increase the power to detect drug efficacy preclinically. Similar progress in detecting drug efficacy clinically will follow from patient recruitment into acute stroke trials based on evidence of remaining penumbra.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the leading cause of death and disability in young adults. Survivors of TBI frequently suffer from long-term personality changes and deficits in cognitive and motor performance, urgently calling for novel pharmacological treatment options. To date, all clinical trials evaluating neuroprotective compounds have failed in demonstrating clinical efficacy in cohorts of severely injured TBI patients. The purpose of the present review is to describe the utility of animal models of TBI for preclinical evaluation of pharmacological compounds. No single animal model can adequately mimic all aspects of human TBI owing to the heterogeneity of clinical TBI. To successfully develop compounds for clinical TBI, a thorough evaluation in several TBI models and injury severities is crucial. Additionally, brain pharmacokinetics and the time window must be carefully evaluated. Although the search for a single-compound, 'silver bullet' therapy is ongoing, a combination of drugs targeting various aspects of neuroprotection, neuroinflammation and regeneration may be needed. In summary, finding drugs and prove clinical efficacy in TBI is a major challenge ahead for the research community and the drug industry. For a successful translation of basic science knowledge to the clinic to occur we believe that a further refinement of animal models and functional outcome methods is important. In the clinical setting, improved patient classification, more homogenous patient cohorts in clinical trials, standardized treatment strategies, improved central nervous system drug delivery systems and monitoring of target drug levels and drug effects is warranted.
The neural correlates of inner speech have been investigated previously using functional imaging. However, methodological and other limitations have so far precluded a clear description of the neural anatomy of inner speech and its relation to overt speech. Specifically, studies that examine only inner speech often fail to control for subjects' behaviour in the scanner and therefore cannot determine the relation between inner and overt speech. Functional imaging studies comparing inner and overt speech have not produced replicable results and some have similar methodological caveats as studies looking only at inner speech. Lesion analysis can avoid the methodological pitfalls associated with using inner and overt speech in functional imaging studies, while at the same time providing important data about the neural correlates essential for the specific function. Despite its advantages, a study of the neural correlates of inner speech using lesion analysis has not been carried out before. In this study, 17 patients with chronic post-stroke aphasia performed inner speech tasks (rhyme and homophone judgements), and overt speech tasks (reading aloud). The relationship between brain structure and language ability was studied using voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping. This showed that inner speech abilities were affected by lesions to the left pars opercularis in the inferior frontal gyrus and to the white matter adjacent to the left supramarginal gyrus, over and above overt speech production and working memory. These results suggest that inner speech cannot be assumed to be simply overt speech without a motor component. It also suggests that the use of overt speech to understand inner speech and vice versa might result in misleading conclusions, both in imaging studies and clinical practice.
Electroencephalography is mandatory to determine the epilepsy syndrome. However, for the precise localization of the irritative zone in patients with focal epilepsy, costly and sometimes cumbersome imaging techniques are used. Recent small studies using electric source imaging suggest that electroencephalography itself could be used to localize the focus. However, a large prospective validation study is missing. This study presents a cohort of 152 operated patients where electric source imaging was applied as part of the pre-surgical work-up allowing a comparison with the results from other methods. Patients (n = 152) with &gt;1 year postoperative follow-up were studied prospectively. The sensitivity and specificity of each imaging method was defined by comparing the localization of the source maximum with the resected zone and surgical outcome. Electric source imaging had a sensitivity of 84% and a specificity of 88% if the electroencephalogram was recorded with a large number of electrodes (128-256 channels) and the individual magnetic resonance image was used as head model. These values compared favourably with those of structural magnetic resonance imaging (76% sensitivity, 53% specificity), positron emission tomography (69% sensitivity, 44% specificity) and ictal/interictal single-photon emission-computed tomography (58% sensitivity, 47% specificity). The sensitivity and specificity of electric source imaging decreased to 57% and 59%, respectively, with low number of electrodes (&lt;32 channels) and a template head model. This study demonstrated the validity and clinical utility of electric source imaging in a large prospective study. Given the low cost and high flexibility of electroencephalographic systems even with high channel counts, we conclude that electric source imaging is a highly valuable tool in pre-surgical epilepsy evaluation.
John Hughlings Jackson was a pioneer in neurology who thought deeply about the structure of the brain and how that manifested itself in the various syndromes that he saw in the clinic. He enunciated a theory of the evolution and dissolution of neural function based on the idea that basic sensorimotor processes become embedded in networks of connections that relate them in successively more complex ways to allow for performance of more and more nuanced and adaptive functions. Hughlings Jackson noted the curious link between human thought, action and speech. He further recognized that disinhibition or release from control and direction marked neurological damage. His integrative framework remains deeply relevant to the plethora of results being produced by the careful and diverse experimentation currently undertaken with the aid of brain imaging techniques of which he could only dream. In celebration of the memory of John Hughlings Jackson, we revisit his concept of neural evolution and development, which led to what eventually became a leading model of brain organization, whereby a new order of behavioural control--the conscious mind--is created out of simpler elements, in a manner similar to Herbert Spencer's evolutionary theory. By this Hughlings Jackson did not mean anything dualistic but merely that the highest layer of evolution of nervous arrangements was 'highly complicated' and that dissolution of that higher level leaves 'a lower consciousness and a shallower nervous system'.
The risk of long-term mortality and its predictors following convulsive status epilepticus in childhood are uncertain. We report mortality within 8 years after an episode of convulsive status epilepticus, and investigate its predictors from a paediatric, prospective, population-based study from north London, UK. In the current study, we followed-up a cohort previously ascertained during a surveillance study of convulsive status epilepticus in childhood. After determining the survival status of the cohort members, we defined cause of death as that listed on their death certificates. We estimated a standardized mortality ratio to compare mortality in our cohort with that expected in the reference population. Multivariable Cox regression analysis was used to investigate any association between the clinical and demographic factors at the time of status epilepticus and subsequent risk of death. The overall case fatality was 11% (95% confidence interval 7.5-16.2%); seven children died within 30 days of their episode of convulsive status epilepticus and 16 during follow-up. The overall mortality in our cohort was 46 times greater than expected in the reference population, and was predominantly due to higher mortality in children who had pre-existing clinically significant neurological impairments when they had their acute episode of convulsive status epilepticus. Children without prior neurological impairment who survived their acute episode of convulsive status epilepticus were not at a significantly increased risk of death during follow-up. There were no deaths in children following prolonged febrile convulsions and idiopathic convulsive status epilepticus. A quarter of deaths during follow-up were associated with intractable seizures/convulsive status epilepticus, and the rest died as a complication of their underlying medical condition. On regression analysis, presence of clinically significant neurological impairments prior to convulsive status epilepticus was the only independent risk factor for mortality. In conclusion, there is a high risk of death within 8 years following childhood convulsive status epilepticus but most deaths are not seizure related. Presence of pre-existing clinically significant neurological impairments at the time of convulsive status epilepticus is the main risk factor for mortality within 8 years after the acute episode. The attributable role of convulsive status epilepticus on mortality remains uncertain, but appears less than is generally perceived.
Primary progressive aphasia comprises a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative conditions with diverse clinical profiles and underlying pathological substrates. A major development has been the publication of the recent International Consensus Criteria for the three major variants namely: semantic, non-fluent/agrammatic and logopenic. The logopenic variant is assumed to represent an atypical presentation of Alzheimer pathology although evidence for this is, at present, limited. The semantic and non-fluent/agrammatic variants are largely associated with frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 and tau pathology, respectively. The applicability of the International Consensus Criteria to an unselected clinical sample is unknown and no agreed clinical evaluation scale on which to derive the diagnosis exists. We assessed 47 consecutive cases of primary progressive aphasic seen over a 3-year period in a specialist centre, using a newly developed progressive aphasia language scale. A subgroup of 30 cases underwent (11)C-labelled Pittsburgh Compound B positron emission tomography imaging, a putative biomarker of Alzheimer's disease that detects -amyloid accumulation, and they were compared with an age-matched group (n = 10) with typical, predominately amnestic Alzheimer's disease. The application of an algorithm based on four key speech and language variables (motor speech disorders, agrammatism, single-word comprehension and sentence repetition) classified 45 of 47 (96%) of patients and showed high concordance with the gold standard expert clinical diagnosis based on the International Consensus Criteria. The level of neocortical -amyloid burden varied considerably across aphasic variants. Of 13 logopenic patients, 12 (92%) had positive -amyloid uptake. In contrast, one of nine (11%) semantic variant and two of eight (25%) non-fluent/agrammatic cases were positive. The distribution of -amyloid across cortical regions of interest was identical in cases with the logopenic variant to that of patients with typical Alzheimer's disease although the total load was lower in the aphasic cases. Impairments of sentence repetition and sentence comprehension were positively correlated with neocortical burden of -amyloid, whereas impaired single-word comprehension showed a negative correlation. The International Consensus Criteria can be applied to the majority of cases with primary progressive aphasic using a simple speech and language assessment scale based upon four key variables. -amyloid imaging confirms the higher rate of Alzheimer pathology in the logopenic variant and, in turn, the low rates in the other two variants. The study offers insight into the biological basis of clinical manifestations of Alzheimer's disease, which appear topographically independent of -amyloid load.
Epilepsy surgery depends on reliable pre-surgical markers of epileptogenic tissue. The current gold standard is the seizure onset zone in ictal, i.e. chronic, electrocorticography recordings. Single pulse electrical stimulation can evoke epileptic, spike-like responses in areas of seizure onset also recorded by electrocorticography. Recently, spontaneous pathological high-frequency oscillations (80-520 Hz) have been observed in the electrocorticogram that are related to epileptic spikes, but seem more specific for epileptogenic cortex. We wanted to see whether a quantitative electroencephalography analysis using time-frequency information including the higher frequency range could be applied to evoked responses by single pulse electrical stimulation, to enhance its specificity and clinical use. Electrocorticography data were recorded at a 2048-Hz sampling rate from 13 patients. Single pulse electrical stimulation (10 stimuli, 1 ms, 8 mA, 0.2 Hz) was performed stimulating pairs of adjacent electrodes. A time-frequency analysis based on Morlet wavelet transformation was performed in a [-1 s : 1 s] time interval around the stimulus and a frequency range of 10-520 Hz. Significant (P = 0.05) changes in power spectra averaged for 10 epochs were computed, resulting in event-related spectral perturbation images. In these images, time-frequency analysis of single pulse-evoked responses, in the range of 10-80 Hz for spikes, 80-250 Hz for ripples and 250-520 Hz for fast ripples, were scored by two observers independently. Sensitivity, specificity and predictive value of time-frequency single pulse-evoked responses in the three frequency ranges were compared with seizure onset zone and post-surgical outcome. In all patients, evoked responses included spikes, ripples and fast ripples. For the seizure onset zone, the median sensitivity of time-frequency single pulse-evoked responses decreased from 100% for spikes to 67% for fast ripples and the median specificity increased from 17% for spikes to 79% for fast ripples. A median positive predictive value for the evoked responses in the seizure onset zone of 17% was found for spikes, 26% for ripples and 37% for fast ripples. Five out of seven patients with &lt;50% of fast ripples removed by resection had a poor outcome. A wavelet transform-based time-frequency analysis of single pulse electrical stimulation reveals evoked responses in the frequency range of spikes, ripples and fast ripples. We demonstrate that time-frequency analysis of single pulse electrical stimulation can assist in delineation of the epileptogenic cortex using time-frequency single pulse-evoked fast ripples as a potential new marker.
Epigenetic mechanisms are processes at the level of the chromatin that control the expression of genes but their role in neuro-immuno-endocrine communication is poorly understood. This review focuses on epigenetic modifications induced by a range of stressors, both physical and psychological, and examines how these variations can affect the biological activity of cells. It is clear that epigenetic modifications are critical in explaining how environmental factors, which have no effect on the DNA sequence, can have such profound, long-lasting influences on both physiology and behavior. A signaling pathway involving activation of MEK-ERK1/2, MSK1, and Elk-1 signaling molecules has been identified in the hippocampus which results in the phospho-acetylation of histone H3 and modification of gene expression including up-regulation of immediate early genes such as c-Fos. This pathway can be induced by a range of challenging experiences including forced swimming, Morris water maze learning, fear conditioning and exposure to the radial maze. Glucocorticoid (GC) hormones, released as part of the stress response and acting via glucocorticoid receptors (GRs), enhance signaling through the ERK1/2/MSK1-Elk-1 pathway and thereby increase the impact on epigenetic and gene expression mechanisms. The role of synergetic interactions between these pathways in adaptive responses to stress and learning and memory paradigms is discussed, in addition we speculate on their potential role in immune function.

It is proposed that socioeconomic conditions in early childhood effect immune programming, with poorer conditions resulting in adult phenotypes that are prone to inflammation. Recent evidence supports this possibility, showing an inverse association of childhood SES with adult markers of systemic inflammation. In this study, we further investigate this association, extending prior studies to include an examination of multiple indices of SES across distinct periods of childhood. Subjects were 112 men and women, 40-60 years of age (88.6% Caucasian). Childhood SES was indexed by a composite of three indicators of parental wealth (parental home and vehicle ownership, and number of bedrooms per child in the family home) averaged across 2 year periods of childhood between 1 and 18 years old. Higher adult serum concentrations of interleukin (IL)-6 were associated with lower SES in early childhood (years 1-2) (=-.05, p&lt;.05), associations that were independent of adult age, personal income, educational attainment, gender, race, body mass index, and physical activity. These associations support recent suggestions that the early environment may program immune phenotypes that contribute to disease risk.
While stress and stress-induced glucocorticoids are classically considered immunosuppressive, they can also enhance proinflammatory responses to subsequent challenges. Corticosterone (CORT) primes rat immune cells, exacerbating pro-inflammatory responses to subsequent immune challenges. Stress can also sensitize pain. One possibility is that stress primes spinal immune cells, predominantly glia, which are key mediators in pain enhancement through their release of proinflammatory cytokines. Therefore, we aimed to identify whether prior CORT sensitizes spinal cord glia such that a potentiated pro-inflammatory response occurs to later intrathecal (IT) lipopolysaccharide (LPS), thereby enhancing pain. Rats received subcutaneous CORT/vehicle 24 h before IT LPS/vehicle. Hind paw pain thresholds were measured before CORT/vehicle, before and up to 48 h after IT LPS/vehicle. In separate rats treated as above, lumbar spinal cord tissue was collected and processed for proinflammatory mediators. CORT alone had no effect on pain responses, nor on any pro-inflammatory cytokines measured. LPS induced allodynia (decreased pain threshold) lasting &lt;4 h and elevated spinal IL-1 and IL-6 protein. Prior CORT potentiated allodynia, lasting &gt;24 h following LPS and potentiated spinal IL-1 and IL-6 protein. Coadministration of IL-1 receptor antagonist with LPS IT completely blocked the allodynia irrespective of whether the system was primed by CORT or not. At 24 h, TLR2, TLR4, MD2, and CD14 mRNAs were significantly elevated within the spinal cord in the CORT+LPS group compared to all other groups. Prior CORT before a direct spinal immune challenge is able to potentiate pain responses and pro-inflammatory cytokine production.
Increasing evidence supports the involvement of immune and inflammatory processes in the etiopathogenesis of seizures. In particular, activation of innate immune mechanisms and the subsequent inflammatory responses, that are induced in the brain by infection, febrile seizures, neurotrauma, stroke are well documented conditions associated with acute symptomatic seizures and with a high risk of developing epilepsy. A decade ago, pharmacological experiments showed that elevated brain levels of the anti-inflammatory molecule IL-1 receptor antagonist reduced seizures in epilepsy models. This observation, together with the evidence of in situ induction of inflammatory mediators and their receptors in experimental and human epileptogenic brain tissue, established the proof-of-concept evidence that the activation of innate immunity and inflammation in the brain are intrinsic features of the pathologic hyperexcitable tissue. Recent breakthroughs in understanding the molecular organization of the innate immune system first in macrophages, then in the different cell types of the CNS, together with pharmacological and genetic studies in epilepsy models, showed that the activation of IL-1 receptor/Toll-like receptor (IL-1R/TLR) signaling significantly contributes to seizures. IL-1R/TLR mediated pro-excitatory actions are elicited in the brain either by mimicking bacterial or viral infections and inflammatory responses, or via the action of endogenous ligands. These ligands include proinflammatory cytokines, such as IL-1beta, or danger signals, such as HMGB1, released from activated or injured cells. The IL-1R/TLR signaling mediates rapid post-translational changes in voltage- and ligand-gated ion channels that increase excitability, and transcriptional changes in genes involved in neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity that contribute to lower seizure thresholds chronically. The anticonvulsant effects of inhibitors of the IL-1R/TLR signaling in various seizures models suggest that this system could be targeted to inhibit seizures in presently pharmaco-resistant epilepsies.
Variations in maternal care alter the developmental programming of some genes by creating lasting differences in DNA methylation patterns, such as the estrogen receptor alpha (ER) promoter region. Interestingly, mother rats preferentially lick and groom their male offspring more than females; therefore, we questioned whether the somatosensory stimuli associated with maternal grooming influences potential sex differences in DNA methylation patterns within the developing amygdala, an area important for socioemotional processing. We report a sex difference in the DNA methylation pattern of specific CpG sites of the ER promoter region within the developing amygdala. Specifically, males have higher levels of ER promoter methylation contrasted to females. Increasing the levels of maternal stimuli in females masculinized ER promoter methylation patterns to male-like levels. As expected, higher levels of ER promoter methylation were associated with lower ER mRNA levels. These data provide further evidence that the early neonatal environment, particularly maternal care, contributes to sex differences and early programming of the neonatal brain via an epigenetic mechanism.
Effects of sex and handedness on the production of spontaneous and click-evoked otoacoustic emissions (OAEs) were explored in a non-hearing impaired population (ages 17-25 years). A sex difference in OAEs, either produced spontaneously (spontaneous OAEs or SOAEs) or in response to auditory stimuli (click-evoked OAEs or CEOAEs) has been reported in infants and children, but healthy young adults seldom have been the target of study. In the current data, a robust sexual dimorphism was confirmed, with women producing more numerous and stronger SOAEs, and CEOAEs with greater response amplitude compared to men. A right-ear advantage was found for the number of SOAEs produced and, in women, for SOAE power. Although handedness did not moderate the ear asymmetry in production, exploratory analyses revealed that departures from strong right hand preference were associated in the present sample with reduced numbers or strengths of OAEs. The results are discussed with respect to differential exposure to androgens during prenatal development.
The Trail-Making Test (TMT) is a widely used neuropsychological measure that assesses visuomotor abilities and cognitive flexibility. For the TMT-A condition participants are required to locate and connect numbers (i.e. 1-2-3) while in the TMT-B condition participants perform the set-shifting task of locating and connecting numbers and letters (i.e. 1-A-2-B). The TMT-B condition has shown impairments in many clinical populations, particularly schizophrenia patients, but the neurobiological underpinning of the task can be difficult to discern given pragmatic obstacles in adapting the task for neuroimaging. In a behavioural testing experiment we demonstrated a close correspondence between performance on the standard TMT and a novel, computer programmed adaptation of the TMT (pcTMT). The pcTMT was designed for functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) administration and neuroimaging data for this task were obtained in. A whole brain analysis revealed significantly greater activation during the pcTMT-B relative to the pcTMT-A in right inferior/middle frontal cortices, right precentral gyrus, left angular gyrus/left middle temporal gyrus. These results identify the regions that most likely underlie cognitive flexibility during the TMT and are candidate regions underlying the impairment of groups with poor set-shifting abilities.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a widely used brain stimulation technique that allows noninvasive examination of different excitatory and inhibitory circuits at the systems level in the intact human brain. In recent years, considerable knowledge has been accumulated about the physiology ofseveral of these facilitatory and inhibitory processes individually. However, activity in the corresponding neural circuits is not independent of each other. This paper reviews the experiments using triple-pulse TMS that are specifically designed to study interactions between intracortical circuits. These studies have provided evidence for a complex network of interconnected neural circuits within and across cerebral hemispheres. The current knowledge about the functional organization of this network, its pharmacology and functional implications for human motor control are discussed in detail. These findings have clinical relevance because specific interactions between neural circuits may be impaired in neurologic and psychiatric disorders. We conclude that triple-pulse TMS studies will help to integrate and better understand the physiologic processes involved in human motor behavior.
Animal models suggest that the brain is particularly neuroplastic early in development, but previous studies have not systematically controlled the auditory environment in human infants and observed the effects on auditory cortical representations. We exposed 4-month-old infants to melodies in either guitar or marimba timbre (infants were randomly assigned to exposure group) for a total of~160min over the course of a week, after which we measured electroencephalogram (EEG) responses to guitar and marimba tones at pitches not previously heard during the exposure phase. A frontally negative response with a topography consistent with generation in auditory areas, peaking around 450ms, was significantly larger for guitar than marimba tones in the guitar-exposed group but significantly larger for marimba than guitar tones in the marimba-exposed group. This indicates that experience with tones in a particular timbre affects representations for that timbre, and that this effect generalizes to tones not previously experienced during exposure. Furthermore, mismatch responses to occasional small 3% changes in pitch were larger for tones in guitar than marimba timbre only for infants exposed to guitar tones. Together these results indicate that a relatively small amount of passive exposure to a particular timbre in infancy enhances representations of that timbre and leads to more precise pitch processing for that timbre.
Examining the neural correlates associated with processing social stimuli offers a viable option to the challenge of studying early social processing in infants at risk for autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). The present investigation included 32 12-month olds at high risk for ASD and 24 low-risk control infants, defined on the basis of family history. Infants were presented with familiar and unfamiliar faces, and three components of interest were explored for amplitude and latency differences. The anticipated developmental effects of emerging hemispheric asymmetry for face-sensitive components (the N290 and P400) were observed, as were familiarity effects for a component related to attention (the Nc). Although there were no striking group differences in the neural response to faces, there was some evidence for a developmental lag in an attentional component for the high-risk group. The infant ASD endophenotype, though elusive, may be better defined through expanding the age of study and addressing change over time in response to varied stimuli.
Gangliogliomas are rare tumors of the central nervous system, usually containing neoplastic ganglion cells and astrocytic components. Few cases of ganglioglioma containing only oligodendrocytic tissue have been reported to date. We present a case of a 40-year-old woman with ganglioglioma consisting mostly of oligodendroglial components. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a well-demarcated cystic lesion with slight perifocal edema in the right parietal lobe. The wall of the cyst was not enhanced after administration of Gd-DTPA contrast media. The mass was totally resected. Histological examination showed a mixture of two distinct components: oligodendroglioma and dysplastic ganglions. The first component was diffusely proliferated cells with round nuclei and perinuclear halo; the second showed marked nucleoli and basophilic cytoplasm containing Nissl bodies. Immunohistochemical study of the oligodendroglial component was positive for OLIG 2 and NKX2.2 but negative for synaptophysin. In addition, LOH of 1p/19q was detected by FISH. Although no adjuvant therapy was carried out, follow-up MRI showed no recurrence of the tumor 41months after the operation.
Spinal intramedullary glioblastomas are uncommon tumors and are known to have a very poor prognosis. Only a few studies in the literature have described their histopathological characteristics. We describe the detailed histopathological and immunohistochemical profiles of six cases of spinal glioblastoma. Most of the tumors were located in the cervical or cervicothoracic region. The majority of the patients were young adults (mean age 34.8years), presenting with a short duration of symptoms of 2months or less. Their histopathological features were similar to cerebral glioblastoma. Diverse vascular changes like microvascular proliferation, sprouting angiogenesis, sclerosed and thrombosed vessels, along with field necrosis were prominent findings. All tumors were positive for GFAP and negative for EMA. The MIB-1 labeling index was very high (mean 16.7  3.2%). Five out of six tumors were immunoreactive for p53 protein, and only two showed over-expression of EGFR protein. The predominant expression of p53 in these young patients suggests that spinal glioblastomas are similar to secondary glioblastoma in the cerebral hemispheres, despite the short duration of symptoms in them and vascular changes that are similar to those noted in primary glioblastoma. These observations support the fact that spinal glioblastomas are heterogeneous tumors underlined by complex molecular pathways. Nevertheless, inactivation of the p53 tumor suppressor pathway could play a major role in the genesis of these neoplasms.
A phenomenology of dreams searches for meaning, with the aim not only of explaining but also of understanding the experience. What and who is it for? And what about the nearly forgotten dream among the moderns, the banal returning to the nightmare, sleepiness, or dreamlike reverie. Nostalgia for the dream, where we saw a very early state of light, not a ordinaire qu duel. Regret for the dreamlike splendor exceeded by the modeling power of modern aesthetics--film and the explosion of virtual imaging technologies. Disappointment at the discovery of a cognitive permanence throughout sleep and a unique fit with the real upon awaking? An excess of methodological rigor where we validate the logic of the dream, correlating the clinical improvement in psychotherapy and the ability to interpret one's own dreams. The dangerous psychological access when the dream primarily is mine, viewed as a veiled expression of an unspoken desire, or when the dream reveals to me, in an existential conception of man, through time and space, my daily life, my freedom beyond my needs. Might its ultimate sense also mean its abolition? From the story of a famous forgotten dream, based on unexpected scientific data emerges the question: do we dream to forget? The main thing would not be consciousness but confidence, when &quot; the sleeping man, his regard extinguished, dead to himself seizes the light in the night &quot; (Heraclitus).


Adoptive transfer of tumor-specific T cells has shown some success for treating metastatic melanoma. We evaluated a novel strategy to improve adoptive therapy by administering both T cells and oncolytic myxoma virus to mice with syngeneic B16.SIY melanoma brain tumors. Adoptive transfer of activated CD8(+) 2C T cells that recognize SIY peptide doubled survival time, but SIY-negative tumors recurred. Myxoma virus killed B16.SIY cells in vitro, and intratumoral injection of virus led to selective and transient infection of the tumor. Virus treatment recruited innate immune cells to the tumor and induced IFN production in the brain, resulting in limited oncolytic effects in vivo. To counter this, we evaluated the safety and efficacy of co-administering 2C T cells, myxoma virus, and either rapamycin or neutralizing antibodies against IFN. Mice that received either triple combination therapy survived significantly longer with no apparent side effects, but eventually relapsed. Importantly, rapamycin treatment did not impair T cell-mediated tumor destruction, supporting the feasibility of combining adoptive immunotherapy and rapamycin-enhanced virotherapy. Myxoma virus may be a useful vector for transient delivery of therapeutic genes to a tumor to enhance T cell responses.


Digital technologies can improve student interest and knowledge in science. However, researching the vast number of websites devoted to science education and integrating them into undergraduate curricula is time-consuming. We developed an Adobe ColdFusion- and Adobe Flash-based system for simplifying the construction, use, and delivery of electronic educational materials in science. The Online Multimedia Teaching Tool (OMTT) in Neuroscience was constructed from a ColdFusion-based online interface, which reduced the need for programming skills and the time for curriculum development. The OMTT in Neuroscience was used by faculty to enhance their lectures in existing curricula. Students had unlimited online access to encourage user-centered exploration. We found the OMTT was rapidly adapted by multiple professors, and its use by undergraduate students was consistent with the interpretation that the OMTT improved performance on exams and increased interest in the field of neuroscience.
Disconnection of the axon from the soma of spinal motoneurons (MNs) leads either to a retrograde degenerative process or to a regenerative reaction, depending on the severity and the proximity to the soma of the axonal lesion. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a continuous membranous network that extends from the nucleus to the entire cytoplasm of the neuronal soma, axon and dendrites. We investigated whether axonal injury is sensed by the ER and triggers the activation of protective mechanisms, such as the unfolded protein response (UPR) and autophagy. We found early (at 3 days) accumulation of beclin1, LC3II and Lamp-1, hallmarks of autophagy, in both degenerating MNs after spinal root avulsion and in non-degenerating MNs after distal nerve section, although Lamp-1 disappeared by 5 days only in the former. In contrast, only degenerating MNs presented early activation of IRE1, revealed by an increase of the spliced isoform of Xbp1 and accumulation of ATF4 in their nucleus, two branches of the UPR, and late BiP downregulation in association with cytoskeletal and organelle disorganization. We conclude that BiP decrease is a signature of the degenerating process, as its overexpression led to an increase in MN survival after root avulsion. Besides, Bcl2 is strongly implicated in the survival pathway activated by BiP overexpression.

Adipose-derived stromal cells (ASCs) are an alternative source of stem cells for cell-based therapies of neurological disorders such as spinal cord injury (SCI). In the present study, we predifferentiated ASCs (pASCs) and compared their behavior with nave ASCs in vitro and after transplantation into rats with a balloon-induced compression lesion. ASCs were predifferentiated into spheres before transplantation, then pASCs or ASCs were injected intraspinally 1 week after SCI. The cells' fate and the rats' functional outcome were assessed using behavioral, histological, and electrophysiological methods. Immunohistological analysis of pASCs in vitro revealed the expression of NCAM, NG2, S100, and p75. Quantitative RT-PCR at different intervals after neural induction showed the up-regulated expression of the glial markers NG2 and p75 and the neural precursor markers NCAM and Nestin. Patch clamp analysis of pASCs revealed three different types of membrane currents; however, none were fast activating Na(+) currents indicating a mature neuronal phenotype. Significant improvement in both the pASC and ASC transplanted groups was observed in the BBB motor test. In vivo, pASCs survived better than ASCs did and interacted closely with the host tissue, wrapping host axons and oligodendrocytes. Some transplanted cells were NG2- or CD31-positive, but no neuronal markers were detected. The predifferentiation of ASCs plays a beneficial role in SCI repair by promoting the protection of denuded axons; however, functional improvements were comparable in both the groups, indicating that repair was induced mainly through paracrine mechanisms.
In taste bud cells, glutamate may elicit two types of responses, as an umami tastant and as a neurotransmitter. Glutamate applied to apical membrane of taste cells would elicit taste responses whereas glutamate applied to basolateral membrane may act as a neurotransmitter. Using restricted stimulation to apical or basolateral membrane of taste cells, we examined responses of taste cells to glutamate stimulation, separately. Apical application of monosodium glutamate (MSG, 0.3 M) increased firing frequency in some of mouse fungiform taste cells that evoked action potentials. These cells were tested with other basic taste compounds, NaCl (salty), saccharin (sweet), HCl (sour), and quinine (bitter). MSG-sensitive taste cells could be classified into sweet-best (S-type), MSG-best (M-type), and NaCl or other electrolytes-best (N- or E/H-type) cells. Furthermore, S- and M-type could be classified into two sub-types according to the synergistic effect between MSG and inosine-5'-monophosphate (S1, M1 with synergism; S2, M2 without synergism). Basolateral application of glutamate (100 M) had almost no effect on the mean spontaneous firing rates in taste cells. However, about 10% of taste cells tested showed transient increases in spontaneous firing rates (&gt;mean + 2 standard deviation) after basolateral application of glutamate. These results suggest the existence of multiple types of umami-sensitive taste cells and the existence of glutamate receptor(s) on the basolateral membrane of a subset of taste cells.
Recent studies suggest that cellular therapies that utilize mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), especially ones that have been neurally induced (NI), may provide a functional benefit in a wide range of neurological disorders. Recently, we developed a new method for the efficient generation of neural cells from human bone marrow (BM)-derived MSCs (hMSC). Neural induction was achieved by exposing cells simultaneously to chromatin-modifying agents and neural-inducing factors. When transplanted into injured spinal cords, these NI-hMSCs survived, differentiated, promoted tissue preservation, and significantly improved locomotor recovery of injured animals. In the current study, we sought to determine whether this methodological approach would be equally effective in generating neural-like cells from feline BM-derived MSCs (fMSC). Our long-term goal is to develop an autologous source of neural stem cells that can be used in cellular replacement therapies in large animal (feline) models of neurological disorders. Our results showed that fMSCs exhibited a neural morphology after 48-72h of neural induction. Immunocytochemistry, ELISA, Western blot, and real-time RT-PCR studies revealed a higher level of expression of several pluripotent and neural genes in NI-fMSCs, the majority of which were expressed in untreated fMSCs at relatively low levels. We concluded that the expression of pluripotency- and neural-associated genes in unmodified fMSCs make them more pliable for reprogramming into a neural fate by manipulation with chromatin modifying agents and neural inducing factors.

In bistable vision, one constant ambiguous stimulus leads to 2 alternating conscious percepts. This perceptual switching occurs spontaneously but can also be influenced through voluntary control. Neuroimaging studies have reported that frontal regions are activated during spontaneous perceptual switches, leading some researchers to suggest that frontal regions causally induce perceptual switches. But the opposite also seems possible: frontal activations may themselves be caused by spontaneous switches. Classically implicated in attentional processes, these same regions are also candidates for the origins of voluntary control over bistable vision. Here too, it remains unknown whether frontal cortex is actually functionally relevant. It is even possible that spontaneous perceptual switches and voluntarily induced switches are mediated by the same top-down mechanisms. To directly address these issues, we here induced &quot;virtual lesions,&quot; with transcranial magnetic stimulation, in frontal, parietal, and 2 lower level visual cortices using an established ambiguous structure-from-motion stimulus. We found that dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was causally relevant for voluntary control over perceptual switches. In contrast, we failed to find any evidence for an active role of frontal cortex in passive bistable vision. Thus, it seems the same pathway used for willed top-down modulation of bistable vision is not used during passive bistable viewing.
Musical training is known to modify auditory perception and related cortical organization. Here, we show that these modifications may extend to higher cognitive functions and generalize to processing of speech. Previous studies have shown that adults and newborns can segment a continuous stream of linguistic and nonlinguistic stimuli based only on probabilities of occurrence between adjacent syllables or tones. In the present experiment, we used an artificial (sung) language learning design coupled with an electrophysiological approach. While behavioral results were not clear cut in showing an effect of expertise, Event-Related Potentials data showed that musicians learned better than did nonmusicians both musical and linguistic structures of the sung language. We discuss these findings in terms of practice-related changes in auditory processing, stream segmentation, and memory processes.
The development and relapse of many psychopathologies can be linked to both stress and prefrontal cortex dysfunction. Glucocorticoid stress hormones target medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and either chronic stress or chronic administration of glucocorticoids produces dendritic remodeling in prefrontal pyramidal neurons. Exposure to stress also causes an increase in the release of the excitatory amino acid glutamate, which binds to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, which are plentiful in mPFC. NMDA receptor activation is crucial for producing hippocampal dendritic remodeling due to stress and for dendritic reorganization in frontal cortex after cholinergic deafferentation. Thus, NMDA receptors could mediate stress-induced dendritic retraction in mPFC. To test this hypothesis, dendritic morphology of pyramidal cells in mPFC was assessed after blocking NMDA receptors with the competitive NMDA antagonist 3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) during restraint stress. Administration of CPP prevented stress-induced dendritic atrophy. Instead, CPP-injected stressed rats showed hypertrophy of apical dendrites compared with controls. These results suggest that NMDA activation is crucial for stress-induced dendritic atrophy in mPFC. Furthermore, NMDA receptor blockade uncovers a new pattern of stress-induced dendritic changes, suggesting that other neurohormonal changes in concert with NMDA receptor activation underlie the net dendritic retraction seen after chronic stress.
Although beta-amyloid (A) deposition is a characteristic feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD), this pathology is commonly found in elderly normal controls (NC). The pattern of A deposition as detected with Pittsburgh compound-B positron emission tomography (PIB-PET) imaging shows substantial spatial overlap with the default mode network (DMN), a group of brain regions that typically deactivates during externally driven cognitive tasks. In this study, we show that DMN functional connectivity (FC) during rest is altered with increasing levels of PIB uptake in NC. Specifically, FC decreases were identified in regions implicated in episodic memory (EM) processing (posteromedial cortex, ventral medial prefrontal cortex, and angular gyrus), whereas connectivity increases were detected in dorsal and anterior medial prefrontal and lateral temporal cortices. This pattern of decreases is consistent with previous studies that suggest heightened vulnerability of EM-related brain regions in AD, whereas the observed increases in FC may reflect a compensatory response.
Markers of preparatory visual-spatial attention in sensory cortex have been described both as lateralized, slow-wave event-related potential (ERP) components and as lateralized changes in oscillatory-electroencephalography alpha power, but the roles of these markers and their functional relationship are still unclear. Here, 3 versions of a visual-spatial cueing paradigm, differing in perceptual task difficulty and/or response instructions, were used to investigate the functional relationships between posterior oscillatory-alpha changes and our previously reported posterior, slow-wave biasing-related negativity (swBRN) ERP activity. The results indicate that the swBRN reflects spatially specific, pretarget preparatory activity sensitive to the expected perceptual difficulty of the target detection task, correlating in both location and strength with the early sensory-processing N1 ERP to the target, consistent with reflecting a preparatory baseline-shift mechanism. In contrast, contralateral event-related decreases in alpha-band power were relatively insensitive to perceptual difficulty and differed topographically from both the swBRN and target N1. Moreover, when response instructions emphasized making immediate responses to targets, compared with prescribing delayed responses, contralateral alpha-event-related desynchronization activity was particularly strong and correlated with the longer latency target-P3b activity. Thus, in contrast to the apparent perceptual-biasing role of swBRN activity, contralateral posterior alpha activity may represent an attentionally maintained task set linking stimulus-specific information and task-specific response requirements.
Here, we describe the practical synthesis and biological properties of bergenin and its structural analogs. Synthetic bergenin compounds were prepared by acylation of bergenin. These compounds were then evaluated for suppression of lipopolysaccharide-induced nitric oxide (NO) generation in cultured cells and anti-narcotic effects on morphine-dependent mice. We found that bergenin derivatives showed potent anti-inflammatory activity (suppression of NO generation) at concentrations ranging from 20 to 30 min vitro, and bergenin derivatives (10-20 mg/kg) exhibited significant anti-narcotic effects on morphine dependence in mice. These results suggest the potential utility of bergenin and its analogs as anti-narcotic agents and the design of more potent anti-inflammatory compounds.
Female Sprague-Dawley rats display considerable variability in their preference for the artificial sweetener sucralose over water. While some rats can be classified as sucralose preferrers (SP), as they prefer sucralose across a broad range of concentrations, others can be classified as sucralose avoiders (SA), as they avoid sucralose at concentrations above 0.1 g/L. Here, we expand on a previous report of this phenomenon by demonstrating, in a series of 2-bottle 24-h preference tests involving water and an ascending series of sucralose concentrations, that this variability in sucralose preference is robust across sex, stage of the estrous cycle, and 2 rat strains (Long-Evans and Sprague-Dawley). In a second experiment involving a large sample of rats (n = 50), we established that the ratio of SP to SA is approximately 35-65%. This bimodal behavioral response to sucralose appears to be driven by taste because rats display a similar bimodal licking response to a range of sucralose solutions presented during brief-access tests. Finally, we have shown that sucralose avoidance is extremely robust as 23-h water-deprived SA continue to avoid sucralose in 1-h single-bottle intake tests. Based on their reduced licking responses to sucralose during brief-access (taste driven) tests, and the fact that their distaste for sucralose cannot be overcome by the motivation to rehydrate, we conclude that SA detect a negative taste quality of sucralose that SP are relatively insensitive to.



The VlsE lipoprotein of Borrelia burgdorferi elicits a strong immune response during the course of Lyme disease. The present study was aimed at characterization of the epitopes of VlsE targeted by the antibody response in patients with post-Lyme disease syndrome, a condition characterized by persisting symptoms of pain, fatigue, and/or neurocognitive impairment despite antibiotic treatment of B. burgdorferi infection. Epitope mapping was carried out using microarrays that contained synthesized overlapping peptides covering the full sequence of VlsE from B. burgdorferi B31. In addition to the previously characterized IR6 region in the variable domain, specific sequences in the N- and C-terminal invariable domains of VlsE were found to be major B cell epitopes in affected patients. The crystal structure of VlsE indicated that the newly described epitopes form a contiguous region in the surface-exposed membrane-proximal part of the monomeric form of the protein.
Some children with cerebral palsy have articulation disorders that are resistant to conventional speech therapy. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the visual feedback method of electropalatography (EPG) could be an effective tool for treating five children (mean age of 9.4 years) with dysarthria and cerebral palsy and to explore whether training improved the posteriorly placed articulation of the Swedish dental/alveolar target consonants /t/, /d/, /n/ and /s/ produced in different positions. An EPG analysis was conducted and some of the data were combined with a perceptual analysis. A more anterior placement was seen after treatment for the target sounds. Features of diagnostic importance revealed were unusual tongue-palate contacts, such as double articulation and abnormally retracted articulation. A possible change in stop closure duration was indicated. The results suggest that EPG could be of potential benefit for diagnosing, treating and describing articulation errors associated with cerebral palsy.
Autoimmune limbic encephalitis is an increasingly recognised cause of cognitive decline and confusion. The typical presentation is with subacute cognitive decline, behavioural disturbance and seizures. Magnetic resonance imaging may show characteristic changes in the medial temporal regions. The diagnosis is confirmed by identification of elevated voltage-gated potassium channel antibody (VGKC-Ab) titres. It is a highly treatable condition, often responding well to intravenous immunoglobulin or steroids. Recognition of autoimmune limbic encephalitis is sometimes delayed--usually because the diagnosis has not been considered--which can result in long-term neurological consequences.






The objective of the present study was to evaluate vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in different types of odontogenic cysts. A total of 25 parakeratotic odontogenic keratocysts (POKCs), 16 orthokeratotic odontogenic keratocysts (OOKCs), and 28 follicular cysts (FCs) were evaluated semiquantitatively for immunohistochemical analysis of VEGF in epithelial cells, endothelial cells of blood vessels, inflammatory cells and focally stromal cells. A significant different expression of VEGF in all cell components was found in keratocysts compared to FCs. The POKCs (80%) and OOKCs (68%) showed more than 50% VEGF positive epithelial cells, whereas the majority of FCs (71%) were either negative in the epithelium or showed less than 10% positive cells. Similarly, the POKCs (88%) and OOKCs (68%) showed more than 50% positive endothelial cells, whereas the FCs (75%) were either negative or showed less than 10% VEGF positive endothelial cells. The highest percentage of cases with score 2 positivity in the stromal cells was observed in POKCs (68%); OOKCs showed a score 2 positivity in 44%, score 1 in 31% and score 0 in 25%, whereas 68% of FCs showed a score 0, 25% a score 1 and only 7% of cases showed a score 2. No statistically significant differences were observed between POKCs and OOKCs in VEGF expression in the epithelial and endothelial cells, whereas the positivity score in stromal cells was significantly higher in POKCs compared to OOKCs. The present results can support the hypothesis that angiogenesis is an active mechanism in the invasive growth of the OKC.
Clopidogrel therapy to prevent atherothrombosis faces the challenge of reduced responsiveness. The absorption of clopidogrel is regulated by multidrug-resistance protein 1 (MDR1) in the intestinal epithelium. Given that aspirin induces MDR1 in cancer cells and peripheral blood cells, it may induce MDR1 in intestinal epithelial cells as well, thereby affecting the absorption of clopidogrel. In this study, aspirin treatment induced the expression of MDR1 in human epithelial colorectal (Caco-2) cells in vitro and in rat intestine in vivo, as evidenced by dose-dependent increases in gene, protein, and efflux function. Along with the upregulation of MDR1 proteins by aspirin, clopidogrel absorption was significantly decreased in the aspirin-treated Caco-2 cells and in rat intestine. Our data provide evidence that prolonged use of aspirin may reduce the intestinal absorption of clopidogrel. Further human studies would be necessary to clarify whether these data have any relevance to prevention of stroke or myocardial infarction.
In this conceptual review we argue that by certifying some of the atypical neuroleptics (or, if one prefers, antipsychotics) as indicated for the 'maintenance' treatment of bipolar disorder, the US FDA has created confusion in the field. These maintenance indications are based on studies using a 'relapse prevention' design, a design that does not address whether the agents tested can prevent new episodes of illness, i.e. recurrence prevention or true prophylaxis. We found that the relapse prevention design fails to prove that these agents are mood stabilizers because patients are pre-selected to respond to the study drug for an acute mood episode (mania) and when they relapse, they do so into an episode of the same polarity (i.e. mania). We believe that this represents withdrawal into the same mood episode that patients experienced before the maintenance study began, rather than prevention of a new mood episode, as research into the natural history of bipolar disorder indicates that such new episodes typically are of the opposite polarity. Thus, the inability of neuroleptics to prevent depression in such maintenance studies reflects the general inability to prevent any new mood episode recurrence (which we believe should be defined as 6 months or longer after the index episode). If one defines a mood stabilizer, as we do, as a drug that prevents new episodes of mania and depression in monotherapy, then these studies do not show that atypical neuroleptics are mood stabilizers. Future maintenance research studies in bipolar disorder should use the prophylaxis design (i.e. without pre-selection of drug responders), rather than the relapse prevention design.
White matter lesions (WMLs), commonly seen as hyperintensities on T2-weighted MRI scans of healthy elderly individuals, are considered to be related to small vessel disease in the brain, and are often associated with subtle cognitive and functional impairments. WMLs also show a strong correlation with a wide range of neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders. Although a number of vascular risk factors for WMLs have been identified, genetic factors are also important with twin and family studies reporting high heritability. Mutations in several genes have been described that lead to monogenic disorders manifesting WMLs, such as Fabry disease and CADASIL. Because most individuals with WMLs do not have Mendelian disorders, most of the focus has been on single nucleotide polymorphisms as genetic risk markers for WMLs, either directly or through their interactions with other genes or medical risk factors. Candidate genes examined to date include those involved in cholesterol regulation and atherosclerosis, hypertension, neuronal repair, homocysteine levels, and oxidative stress pathways. In addition, although there have been a few genome-wide linkage studies, only one genome-wide association study has been performed. The majority of the genetic findings need independent replication, and studies need to be extended to other candidate genes. Collaborative efforts to examine genome-wide associations in large samples of both sexes of a broad age range using longitudinal studies are necessary. The identification of individuals genetically at risk of developing white matter lesions will have important implications for recognizing the etiology of WMLs and thereby developing clinical intervention strategies for their prevention.
Huntington disease (HD) is a severe incurable nervous system disease that generally has an onset age of around 35-50, and is caused by a dominantly transmitted expansion mutation. A genetic test allows persons at risk, i.e., offspring or siblings of affected individuals, to discover their genetic status. Unaffected mutation-positive subjects will manifest HD sometime during life. Despite major advances in research on pathogenic mechanisms, no studies have yet fully validated preventive therapy or biomarkers for use before the symptoms become clinically manifest. Seeking brain and peripheral biomarkers is a requisite to develop a cure for HD. Changes in the brain can be observed in vivo using methods such as structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), functional MRI (fMRI), and positron emission tomography (PET), detecting volumetric changes, microstructural and connectivity alterations, abnormalities in brain activity in response to specific tasks, and abnormalities in metabolism and receptor distribution. Although all these imaging techniques can detect early markers in asymptomatic HD gene carriers for premanifest screening and pharmacological responses to therapeutic interventions no single modality has yet provided and validated an optimal marker probably because this task requires an integrative multimodal imaging approach. In this article, we review the findings from imaging procedures in the attempt to identify potential brain markers, so-called dry biomarkers, for possible application to further, yet unavailable, neuroprotective preventive therapies for HD manifestations.
There are very numerous reports in the neuropsychological literature of patients showing, in naming and/or comprehension tasks, a disproportionate deficit for nouns in comparison with verbs or a disproportionate deficit for verbs in comparison with nouns. A number of authors advanced that, in at least some or even in every of these reported cases, the noun/verb dissociation in fact reflected an underlying conceptual deficit disproportionately affecting either object or action concepts. These patterns thus would put an additional constraint on theories of conceptual knowledge organization, which should be able to explain how brain damage could selectively disrupt the concepts of objects or the concepts of actions. We have reviewed 69 papers (published from 1984 to 2009) that reported a pattern of a noun or a verb disproportionate deficit in a single-case, multiple-case, or group study of brain-damaged patients with various aetiologies. From this review, we concluded that none of these studies provided compelling evidence in favour of the interpretation that the observed noun or verb disproportionate deficit arose at the conceptual processing level and, accordingly, that this level may be organized according to the &quot;object/action&quot; dimension. Furthermore, we argue that investigating conceptual impairments in brain-damaged patients according to the &quot;object/action&quot; dichotomy is not empirically fruitful if the purpose is to inform theories of conceptual knowledge organization. In order to provide evidence relevant to these theories, one needs to consider finer grained distinctions within both the object and the action category when investigating the scope of the patients' conceptual impairment.
The extracellular space (ECS) consists of the narrow channels between brain cells together with their geometrical configuration and contents. Despite being only 20-60 nm in width, the ECS typically occupies 20% of the brain volume. Numerous experiments over the last 50 years have established that molecules moving through the ECS obey the laws of diffusion but with an effective diffusion coefficient reduced by a factor of about 2.6 compared to free diffusion. This review considers the origins of the diffusion barrier arising from the ECS and its properties. The paper presents a brief overview of software for implementing two point-source paradigms for measurements of localized diffusion properties: the real-time iontophoresis or pressure method for small ions and the integrative optical imaging method for macromolecules. Selected results are presented. This is followed by a discussion of the application of the MCell Monte Carlo simulation program to determining the importance of geometrical constraints, especially dead-space microdomains, and the possible role of interaction with the extracellular matrix. It is concluded that we can predict the impediment to diffusion of many molecules of practical importance and also use studies of the diffusion of selected molecular probes to reveal the barrier properties of the ECS.

The present study investigated emotional responses to music by using multidimensional scaling (MDS) analysis in patients with right or left medial temporal lobe (MTL) lesions and matched normal controls (NC). Participants were required to evaluate emotional dissimilarities of nine musical excerpts that were selected to express graduated changes along the valence and arousal dimensions. For this purpose, they rated dissimilarity between pairs of stimuli on an eight-point scale and the resulting matrices were submitted to an MDS analysis. The results showed that patients did not differ from NC participants in evaluating emotional feelings induced by the musical excerpts, suggesting that all participants were able to distinguish refined emotions. We concluded that the ability to detect and use emotional valence and arousal when making dissimilarity judgments was not strongly impaired by a right or left MTL lesion. This finding has important clinical implications and is discussed in light of current neuropsychological studies on emotion. It suggests that emotional responses to music can be at least partially preserved at a non-verbal level in patients with unilateral temporal lobe damage including the amygdala.
One of the primary goals of cognitive neuroscience is to understand the interaction between genes, development and specific experience. A particularly fascinating example of this interaction is a sensitive period - a time during development when experience has a differential effect on behavior and the brain. Behavioral and brain imaging studies in musicians have provided suggestive evidence for a possible sensitive period for musical training; showing that musicians who began training early show better task performance and greater changes in auditory and motor regions of the brain. However, these studies have not controlled for likely differences between early- (ET) and late-trained (LT) musicians in the number of years of musical experience. This review presents behavioral work from our laboratory comparing the performance of ET (before age seven) and LT musicians who were matched for years of experience on the ability to tap in synchrony with auditory and visual rhythms. The results demonstrate the existence of a possible sensitive period for musical training that has its greatest impact on measures of sensorimotor integration. Work on motor learning in children and how this might relate to the observed sensitive period effect is also reviewed. These studies are described in the context of what is currently known about sensitive periods in animals and humans; drawing on evidence from anatomy and physiology, studies of deafness, as well as structural and functional neuroimaging studies in trained musicians. The possible mechanisms underlying sensitive periods for musical training are discussed based on current theories describing the influence of both low-level features of sensory experience and higher-level cognitive processing.
Studies have consistently shown that the mismatch negativity (MMN) for different auditory features correlates with musical skills, and that this effect is more pronounced for stimuli integrated in complex musical contexts. Hence, the MMN can potentially be used for determining the development of auditory skills and musical expertise. MMN paradigms, however, are typically very long in duration, and far from sounding musical. Therefore, we developed a novel multi-feature MMN paradigm with 6 different deviant types integrated in a complex musical context of no more than 20 min in duration. We found significant MMNs for all 6 deviant types. Hence, this short objective measure can putatively be used as an index for auditory and musical development.
Patients with peripheral dysgraphia due to impairment at the allographic level produce writing errors that affect the letter-form and are characterized by case confusions or the failure to write in a specific case or style (e.g., cursive). We studied the writing errors of a patient with pure peripheral dysgraphia who had entirely intact oral spelling, but produced many well-formed letter errors in written spelling. The comparison of uppercase print and lowercase cursive spelling revealed an uncommon pattern: while most uppercase errors were case substitutions (e.g., A - a), almost all lowercase errors were letter substitutions (e.g., n - r). Analyses of the relationship between target letters and substitution errors showed that errors were neither influenced by consonant-vowel status nor by letter frequency, though word length affected error frequency in lowercase writing. Moreover, while graphomotor similarity did not predict either the occurrence of uppercase or lowercase errors, visuospatial similarity was a significant predictor of lowercase errors. These results suggest that lowercase representations of cursive letter-forms are based on a description of entire letters (visuospatial features) and are not - as previously found for uppercase letters - specified in terms of strokes (graphomotor features).
Cognition has been well characterized in the various stages of Huntington disease (HD) as well as in the prodrome before the motor diagnosis is given. Although the clinical diagnosis of HD relies on the manifestation of motor abnormalities, the associated impairments have been growing in prominence for several reasons. First, research to understand the most debilitating aspects of HD has suggested that cognitive and behavioral changes place the greatest burden on families, are most highly associated with functional decline, and can be predictive of institutionalization. Second, cognitive impairments are evident at least 15 years prior to the time at which motor diagnosis is given. Finally, cognitive decline is associated with biological markers such as brain atrophy, circulating levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factors, and insulin-like growth factor 1. Efforts are now underway to develop valid and reliable measures of cognition in the prodrome as well as in all stages of HD so that clinical trials can be conducted using cognitive outcomes.



The elaborate changes in morphology of an organism during development are the result of mechanical contributions that are a mixture of those generated locally and those that influence from a distance. We would like to know how chemical and mechanical information is transmitted and transduced, how work is done to achieve robust morphogenesis and why it sometimes fails. We introduce a scheme for separating the influence of two classes of forces. Active intrinsic forces integrate up levels of scale to shape tissues. Counter-currently, extrinsic forces exert influence from higher levels downwards and feed back directly and indirectly upon the intrinsic behaviours. We identify the measurable signatures of different kinds of forces and identify the frontiers where work is most needed.
A fundamental but unsolved problem in neuroscience is how connections between neurons might underlie information processing in central circuits. Building wiring diagrams of neural networks may accelerate our understanding of how they compute. But even if we had wiring diagrams, it is critical to know what neurons in a circuit are doing: their physiology. In both the retina and cerebral cortex, a great deal is known about topographic specificity, such as lamination and cell-type specificity of connections. Little, however, is known about connections as they relate to function. Here, we review how advances in functional imaging and electron microscopy have recently allowed the examination of relationships between sensory physiology and synaptic connections in cortical and retinal circuits.
Neuronal firing in the hippocampal formation (HF) of freely moving rodents shows striking examples of spatialorganization in the form of place, directional, boundary vector and grid cells. The firing of place and grid cells shows an intriguing form of temporal organization known as 'theta phase precession'. We review the mechanisms underlying theta phase precession of place cell firing, ranging from membrane potential oscillations to recurrent connectivity, and the relevant intra-cellular and extra-cellular data. We then consider the use of these models to explain the spatial structure of grid cell firing, and review the relevant intra-cellular and extra-cellular data. Finally, we consider the likely interaction between place cells, grid cells and boundary vector cells in estimating self-location as a compromise between path-integration and environmental information.
Spatial orientation behaviors in animals are fundamental for survival but poorly understood at the neuronal level. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans orients to a wide range of stimuli and has a numerically small and well-described nervous system making it advantageous for investigating the mechanisms of spatial orientation. Recent work by the C. elegans research community has identified essential computational elements of the neural circuits underlying two orientation strategies that operate in five different sensory modalities. Analysis of these circuits reveals novel motifs including simple circuits for computing temporal derivatives of sensory input and for integrating sensory input with behavioral state to generate adaptive behavior. These motifs constitute hypotheses concerning the identity and functionality of circuits controlling spatial orientation in higher organisms.
How neurons encode information has been a hotly debated issue. Ultimately, any code must be relevant to the senders, receivers, and connections between them. This review focuses on the transmission of sensory information through the circuit linking thalamus and cortex, two distant brain regions. Strong feedforward inhibition in the thalamocortical circuit renders cortex highly sensitive to the thalamic synchrony evoked by a sensory stimulus. Neuromodulators and feedback connections may modulate the temporal sensitivity of such circuits and gate the propagation of synchrony into other layers and cortical areas. The prevalence of strong feedforward inhibitory circuits throughout the central nervous system suggests that synchrony codes and timing-sensitive circuits may be widespread, occurring well beyond sensory thalamus and cortex.
The mammalian cerebral cortex is characterized by intense spontaneous activity, depending on brain region, age, and behavioral state. Classically, the cortex is considered as being driven by the senses, a paradigm which corresponds well to experiments in quiescent or deeply anesthetized states. In awake animals, however, the spontaneous activity cannot be considered as 'background noise', but is of comparable-or even higher-amplitude than evoked sensory responses. Recent evidence suggests that this internal activity is not only dominant, but also it shares many properties with the responses to natural sensory inputs, suggesting that the spontaneous activity is not independent of the sensory input. Such evidence is reviewed here, with an emphasis on intracellular and computational aspects. Statistical measures, such as the spike-triggered average of synaptic conductances, show that the impact of internal network state on spiking activity is major in awake animals. Thus, cortical activity cannot be considered as being driven by the senses, but sensory inputs rather seem to modulate and modify the internal dynamics of cerebral cortex. This view offers an attractive interpretation not only of dreaming activity (absence of sensory input), but also of several mental disorders.
Understanding the neural mechanisms of invariant object recognition remains one of the major unsolved problems in neuroscience. A common solution that is thought to be employed by diverse sensory systems is to create hierarchical representations of increasing complexity and tolerance. However, in the mammalian auditory system many aspects of this hierarchical organization remain undiscovered, including the prominent classes of high-level representations (that would be analogous to face selectivity in the visual system or selectivity to bird's own song in the bird) and the dominant types of invariant transformations. Here we review the recent progress that begins to probe the hierarchy of auditory representations, and the computational approaches that can be helpful in achieving this feat.
Neural circuits do not function in isolation; they interact with the physical world, accepting sensory inputs and producing outputs via muscles. Since both these pathways are constrained by physics, the activity of neural circuits can only be understood by considering biomechanics of muscles, bodies, and the exterior world. We discuss how animal bodies have natural stable motions that require relatively little activation or control from the nervous system. The nervous system can substantially alter these motions, by subtly changing mechanical properties such as body or leg stiffness. Mechanics can also provide robustness to perturbations without sensory reflexes. By considering a complete neuromechanical system, neuroscientists and biomechanicians together can provide a more integrated view of neural circuitry and behavior.
The biophysical models of spike-timing-dependent plasticity have explored dynamics with molecular basis for such computational concepts as coincidence detection, synaptic eligibility trace, and Hebbian learning. They overall support different learning algorithms in different brain areas, especially supervised learning in the cerebellum. Because a single spine is physically very small, chemical reactions at it are essentially stochastic, and thus sensitivity-longevity dilemma exists in the synaptic memory. Here, the cascade of excitable and bistable dynamics is proposed to overcome this difficulty. All kinds of learning algorithms in different brain regions confront with difficult generalization problems. For resolution of this issue, the control of the degrees-of-freedom can be realized by changing synchronicity of neural firing. Especially, for cerebellar supervised learning, the triangle closed-loop circuit consisting of Purkinje cells, the inferior olive nucleus, and the cerebellar nucleus is proposed as a circuit to optimally control synchronous firing and degrees-of-freedom in learning.


Neuropsychiatric disorders as schizophrenia, autism and mood disorders represent one of the leading causes of disability. The cost of bringing a drug to the market is increasing and becoming more risky. Pharmaceutical investments in neuroscience are decreasing. At the same time we are facing an unprecedented rate of discovery in human genetics. Genes predisposing for common diseases including psychiatric disorders are being identified. The knowledge derived from the identification of genes relevant for psychiatric disorders holds the promise of providing truly innovative therapeutic interventions. The process of approving new psychiatric drugs, is however complex, lengthy and requires a well orchestrated and funded effort of multiple disciplines. In this article a brief overview of the key learning obtained from the conduction genome-wide association studies, thus far, is given in an attempt to provide a realistic view on the potential contribution of human genetics to drug discovery in psychiatry.
Inhibition is a fundamental property of behaviour required for flexible responding and humans have evolved executive brain systems that can engage inhibitory processes in order to reduce interference from irrelevant distracting stimuli, block unwanted memories and emotions and suppress inappropriate choices and actions. Without the efficient operation of these inhibitory mechanisms behaviour can become maladaptive, as seen in a large range of disorders where subjects exhibit impulsive responding, such as ADHD, mania, chronic substance abuse and schizophrenia. Animal models are making an increasing contribution to our understanding of the psychology and underlying neurobiology of behavioural inhibition and impulsivity. Here, in this short article we summarise work conducted with rat models, and also discuss recent progress in exploiting the potential of genetically engineered mice. The data so far emphasise the relatively high translational relevance of animal models in this area of behavioural neuroscience. The findings add weight to the existence of dissociable components of impulsive behaviour, they inform the human literature, and may be of significant use in the development of drug therapies to treat the many disorders where failures in behavioural inhibition are prominent.
Few common neurological illnesses trace back to single molecular disturbances. Many disparate putative causes may co-associate with a single disease state. However, uncovering functional, hierarchical networks of underlying mechanisms can provide a framework in which many primary pathologies converge on more complex, single higher level correlates of disease. This article focuses on cognitive deficits associated with schizophrenia to illustrate: a) How non-invasive EEG biomarkers of cognitive function constitute such a 'higher level correlate' of underlying pathologies. b) How derangement of multiple, cell-specific, molecular processes can converge on such EEG-visible, correlates of disrupted cognitive function. This approach suggests that evidence-based design of multi-target therapies may take advantage of hierarchical patterns of convergence to improve both efficacy and selectivity of disease-intervention.
Headache and endometriosis show some similarities in their clinical and epidemiological features that are probably due to the influence of female sexual hormones on both disorders. Epidemiological studies indicate that they are comorbid disorders. However, the nature of the comorbidity is not known with certainty, but a likely explanation may be common susceptibility genes. Another possibility is that, because they both are related to pain, increased pain sensitivity induced by one of the disorders may lead to a higher likelihood of developing the other, possibly mediated by nitrogen oxide or prostaglandins. A common link to the widespread use of estroprogestins may seem less probable. For physicians dealing with women with either of these disorders, awareness of the comorbidity may be helpful in the treatment of the patient.
The increasing debate regarding the predictiveness of rodent persistent pain models for clinical efficacy has spurred rapidly evolving numbers and types of novel models from which to choose. While several excellent reviews of these models have been published in recent years, few focus on their specific applications and particular challenges with the use of these models in the setting of drug discovery. Thus, in this review, how models of persistent pain may be used to: 1) screen molecules for in vivo efficacy, 2) advance lead compounds and 3) guide decision making for clinical trial design is discussed. Relative to other disease areas for potential drug discovery and development, chronic pain appears to be well-poised for drug discovery and development. This is in large part due to the advanced understanding of pain mechanisms and the upsurge in the development of novel, specialized rodent models of persistent pain and improvements in methods of pain assessment in animals.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a complex disease plagued by a significant unmet need for treatment. To date, no disease- modifying OA drugs (DMOADs) exist and the available symptom-modifying OA drugs (SMOADs) have limitations. Although a complete understanding of the mechanisms of OA pain in humans is lacking, animal models have helped provide insight into the multifaceted origin and manifestation of OA pain. Success in discovering new therapeutics will likely require reliance on good animal models. This review summarizes the animal models available for studying pain associated with OA.
Fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is a chronic pain syndrome characterized by diffuse musculoskeletal pain. In quantitative sensory testing studies, FMS patients display alterations in heat, cold, and mechanical sensitivity. Genetic studies support a key role for the biogenic amine system, and single nucleotide polymorphisms have been identified in serotonin and dopamine transporter and receptor genes of FMS patients. The pathophysiology of fibromyalgia includes contributions from both the ascending and descending somatosensory systems, and decreased central nervous system inhibition of peripheral nociceptive signalling. Three drugs have been approved for the treatment of FMS: Lyrica (pregablin), Cymbalta (duloxetine), and Savella (milnacipran). These drugs were originally developed for indications other than FMS, and were later approved for FMS after successful clinical trials. One hurdle in the development of drugs specifically for FMS is the availability of preclinical animal models of the disease. Recently, several rodent models have been described with potential for translation to the human pain syndrome. In this review, we discuss recent developments toward understanding the pathophysiology of FMS, currently available pharmacologic therapy, ongoing clinical trials, and potential animal models of FMS.
Most cancer patients will experience moderate to severe pain and/or neuropathy during the course of their disease. Recent improvements in the primary treatment of cancer have increased the life span of cancer patients, but not necessarily their quality of life (QoL). The pain and suffering cancer patients experience may be the result of the tumor itself, or the treatments required to arrest tumor growth and progression. In contrast to the rapid, highly mechanistic, tailored medicine approach used to target and treat the primary tumor burden, the evolution of pain and other supportive treatment approaches for cancer patients have been slow to non-existent. A movement is emerging to use more rational mechanistic approaches to the treatment of pain created by cancer and chemotherapeutics. This review briefly describes the most severe and debilitating symptoms (endophenotypes) from the cancer patient's perspective, the biochemical/neurobiological sequalae associated with tumor growth and therapies designed to arrest tumor progression, and highlights some promising pharmacologic mechanisms that may be used to treat cancer-related pain, sensory neuropathies, and associated endophenotypes. Delivering improved broader spectrum supportive care medicines to cancer patients will fill a significant unmet need and enable them to live productive, fulfilling lives that preserve their overall QoL.
P2X7 is an ATP-gated non-selective cation channel expressed primarily on cells of hematopoietic origin, such as macrophages and microglia. Since the initial cloning of this channel, enormous progress has been made in the understanding of the physiology, pharmacology and therapeutic utility of P2X7. This article attempts to review the biology of P2X7 with a focus on the complex pharmacology of this channel. Finally, the authors discuss the role of P2X7 as an analgesic drug target and raise some of the challenges and issues that face the P2X7 research community.
Alphaviral vectors based on Semliki Forest virus and Sindbis virus infect many host cell types, causing rapid and high-level transgene expression. In the CNS, Semliki Forest virus and Sindbis virus exhibit an outstanding preference for neurons rather than glial cells, compared to other viruses. Generation of high-titer virus stocks is rapid (less than two days) and typically requires biosafety level 1 or 2 containment. Wild-type vectors are cytotoxic, permitting short-term transgene expression. However, mutant vectors with decreased cytotoxicity, to prolong host cell survival, have been developed. They also increase transgene expression and cellular co-infection, permitting heteromeric protein expression in individual cells. In addition, mutants with temperature-dependent control of transgene expression and altered host cell preference to target interneurons and astrocytes rather than principal neurons are available. Other alphavirus vectors based on Venezuelan equine encephalitis and Eastern equine encephalitis virus replicons have been engineered, too. Alphavirus vectors have been successfully used not only in neuroscience, but also for other applications including drug discovery, structural biology, vaccine development, and cancer therapy.
Nuclear distribution element-like 1 (Ndel1 or Nudel) was firstly described as a regulator of the cytoskeleton in microtubule and intermediate filament dynamics and microtubule-based transport. Emerging evidence indicates that Ndel1 also serves as a docking platform for signaling proteins and modulates enzymatic activities (kinase, ATPase, oligopeptidase, GTPase). Through these structural and signaling functions, Ndel1 plays a role in diverse cellular processes (e.g., mitosis, neurogenesis, neurite outgrowth, and neuronal migration). Furthermore, Ndel1 is linked to the etiology of various mental illnesses and neurodegenerative disorders. In the present review, we summarize the physiological and pathological functions associated with Ndel1. We further advance the concept that Ndel1 interfaces GTPases-mediated processes (endocytosis, vesicles morphogenesis/signaling) and cytoskeletal dynamics to impact cell signaling and behaviors. This putative mechanism may affect cellular functionalities and may contribute to shed light into the causes of devastating human diseases.
This review summarizes what is presently known about the function, sexual differentiation, and neural circuitry of juvenile rough-and-tumble play. Juvenile rough-and-tumble play is a unique motivated behavior that is widespread throughout the mammalian order and usually occurs more often in males. Immediate early gene studies indicate that cortical and subcortical circuits, many of which are sensitive to sex steroid hormones, mediate juvenile play. Sex differences in rough-and-tumble play are controlled in part by neonatal exposure to androgens or their estrogenic metabolites. Studies indicate that testicular androgens during play are also necessary to stimulate male-like levels of play initiation. The resemblance of rough-and-tumble play to aggression and sexual behavior has led some to question whether male-typical adult behavior is contingent upon the experience of play. Attempts to control the amount of play through social isolation show that social experience during adolescence is critical for male-typical adult behaviors to be expressed. This well-established finding, together with evidence that play induces neural plasticity, supports the hypothesis that juvenile play contributes to male-typical brain development that ultimately enables the expression of adult social and reproductive behavior.
Positive social interactions are essential for emotional well-being, healthy development, establishment and maintenance of adequate social structures and reproductive success of humans and animals. Here, we review the studies that have investigated whether forms of social interaction that occur in different phases of the lifespan of animals, i.e., maternal behavior, social play and sexual interaction are rewarding in rodents and non-human primates. We show that these three forms of social interaction can be used as incentive for place conditioning, lever pressing and maze learning, three setups that have been extensively used to study the rewarding properties of food and drugs of abuse and their neural underpinnings. The experience of positive social interactions during key developmental ages has profound and long-lasting effects on brain function and behavior in emotional, motivational and cognitive domains. For instance, pup interaction is more rewarding than cocaine for early postpartum dams and rats deprived of the opportunity to play during adolescence show social and cognitive impairments at adulthood. Furthermore, sexual behavior is only overtly rewarding when animals can control the rate at which the sexual interaction occurs. Last, we discuss how animal models contributed to our understanding of social reward mechanisms and its psychological components throughout development.
The dynamic aspect of behavior is exaggerated during social interactions such as sex, combat and rough-and-tumble play where the movements of the two animals involved continually influence one another. The behavioral 'markers' abstracted from this stream can greatly influence the conclusions drawn about the effects of experimental procedures and how changes during development are interpreted. By using methods of analysis that treat behaving systems as being dynamic and governed by negative feedback processes, the behavioral markers that are abstracted can more accurately reflect the underlying mechanisms. Using examples from rats engaged in play fighting, serious fighting and food defense, it is shown that motivational from non-motivational contributions to behavioral output and changes in that output with age can be discerned. For example, while sex differences in the frequency of initiating play by juvenile rats are shown to reflect differences in the motivation to engage in this behavior, sex differences in preferred motor patterns used during play do not. Rather, they reflect differences in perceptual and motor systems. Although an issue that is often neglected, we show that behavioral description, and the theoretical underpinnings of that description, is critical for the study of the mechanisms that produce and regulate behavior.
Adolescence is a critical transition period, during which fundamental changes prepare the adolescent for becoming an adult. Heuristic models of the neurobiology of adolescent behavior have emerged, promoting the central role of reward and motivation, coupled with cognitive immaturities. Here, we bring focus to two basic sets of processes, attention and conditioning, which are essential for adaptive behavior. Using the dual-attention model developed by Corbetta and Shulman (2002), which identifies a stimulus-driven and a goal-driven attention network, we propose a balance that favors stimulus-driven attention over goal-driven attention in youth. Regarding conditioning, we hypothesize that stronger associations tend to be made between environmental cues and appetitive stimuli, and weaker associations with aversive stimuli, in youth relative to adults. An attention system geared to prioritize stimulus-driven attention, together with more powerful associative learning with appetitive incentives, contribute to shape patterns of adolescent motivated behavior. This proposed bias in attention and conditioning function could facilitate the impulsive, novelty-seeking and risk-taking behavior that is typical of many adolescents.
Maturational differences in brain responsiveness to rewards have been implicated in the increased rates of injury and death in adolescents from behavior-related causes. However, much of this morbidity is related to drug intoxication or other externalizing behaviors, and may be concentrated in a subset of adolescents who are at psychosocial or neurobiological risk. To examine whether individual differences in psychosocial and behavioral symptomatology relate to activation of motivational neurocircuitry, we scanned 26 psychiatrically healthy adolescents using fMRI as they performed a monetary incentive delay task. Overall Problem Density on the Drug Use Screening Inventory (DUSI-OPD) correlated positively with activation of ventral mesofrontal cortex (mFC) during anticipation of responding for rewards (vs responding for no incentive). In addition, DUSI-OPD correlated positively with right ventral striatum recruitment during anticipation of responding to win rewards (vs responding for no incentive or to avoid losses of identical magnitudes). Finally, a psychophysiological interaction (PPI) analysis indicated that increased connectivity between nucleus accumbens and portions of anterior cingulate and mFC as a function of reward prospects also correlated with DUSI-OPD. These findings extend previous reports demonstrating that in adolescents, individual differences in reactivity of motivational neurocircuitry relate to different facets of impulsivity or externalizing behaviors.

Neurite outgrowth is a fundamental step in establishing proper neuronal connections in the developing central nervous system. Dynamic control of outgrowth has been attributed to changes in growth cone Ca2+ levels in response to extracellular cues. Here we have investigated a possible role for Ca2+ permeable kainate (KA) receptors in regulating neurite outgrowth of nociceptive-like dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. To identify KA receptor subunits likely to be involved, we used quantitative RT-PCR on acutely dissociated DRG and dorsal horn neurons. DRG neurons expressed more GluK1, particularly the GluK1b spice variant, than dorsal horn neurons. Conversely, dorsal horn neurons expressed more GluK2, particularly GluK2a, than DRG neurons. Further, an RNA editing assay indicated that the majority of GluK1 and GluK2 mRNA transcripts in DRG were unedited. Imaging Ca2+ transients following application of a KA receptor agonist to DRG and dorsal horn co-cultures revealed increases in intracellular Ca2+ in the growth cones of DRG neurons. In the majority of cases, this increase in Ca2+ was partly or completely blocked by Joro spider toxin (JSTX), an antagonist for Ca2+-permeable AMPA and KA receptors. Treatment of DRG/dorsal horn co-cultures with KA for 18 hours suppressed neurite outgrowth while application of the rapidly desensitizing KA receptor agonist SYM 2081, the competitive AMPA/KA receptor antagonist, CNQX, and JSTX or philanthotoxin enhanced neurite outgrowth and prevented KA effects on neurite outgrowth. Thus, Ca2+ entry through KA receptors at the growth cone of DRG neurons may be an important regulator of neurite outgrowth.

Common loons (Gavia immer) can be exposed to relatively high levels of dietary methylmercury (MeHg) through fish consumption, and several studies have documented MeHg-associated health effects in this species. To further study the neurological risks of MeHg accumulation, migrating loons dying of Type E botulism were collected opportunistically from the Lake Erie shore at Long Point (Ontario, Canada) and relationships between total mercury (THg), selenium (Se), and selected neurochemical receptors and brain enzymes were investigated. THg concentrations were 1-78 g/g in liver; and 0.3-4 g/g in the brain (all concentrations reported on a dry weight basis). A significant (p &lt; 0.05) positive correlation was found between THg in liver and THg in 3 subregions of the brain (cerebral cortex: r = 0.433; cerebellum: r = 0.293; brain stem: r = 0.405). THg varied significantly among different brain regions, with the cortex having the highest concentrations. Se levels in the cortex and cerebellum were 1-29 and 1-10 g/g, respectively, with no significant differences between regions. Se was not measured in brain stem due to insufficient tissue mass. There were molar excesses of Se over mercury (Hg) in both cortex and cerebellum at all Hg concentrations, and a significant positive relationship between THg and the Hg:Se molar ratio (cortex: r = 0.63; cerebellum: r = 0.47). No significant associations were observed between brain THg and the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor concentration, nor between THg and muscarinic cholinergic (mACh) receptor concentration; however, brain THg levels were lower than in previous studies that reported significant Hg-associated changes in neuroreceptor densities. Together with previous studies, the current findings add to our understanding of Hg distribution in the brain of common loons, and the associations between Hg and sub-lethal neurochemical changes in fish-eating wildlife.
In this study, we assessed mercury (Hg) exposure in several tissues (brain, liver, and breast and primary feathers) in bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) collected from across five Great Lakes states (Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin) between 2002-2010, and assessed relationships between brain Hg and neurochemical receptors (NMDA and GABA(A)) and enzymes (glutamine synthetase (GS) and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)). Brain total Hg (THg) levels (dry weight basis) averaged 2.80 g/g (range: 0.2-34.01), and levels were highest in Michigan birds. THg levels in liver (r(p) = 0.805) and breast feathers (r(p) = 0.611) significantly correlated with those in brain. Brain Hg was not associated with binding to the GABA(A) receptor. Brain THg and inorganic Hg (IHg) were significantly positively correlated with GS activity (THg r(p) = 0.190; IHg r(p) = 0.188) and negatively correlated with NMDA receptor levels (THg r(p) = -0245; IHg r(p) = -0.282), and IHg was negatively correlated with GAD activity (r(s) = -0.196). We also report upon Hg demethylation and relationships between Hg and Se in brain and liver. These results suggest that bald eagles in the Great Lakes region are exposed to Hg at levels capable of causing subclinical neurological damage, and that when tissue burdens are related to proposed avian thresholds approximately 14-27% of eagles studied here may be at risk.
Many research reports have concluded that emotional information can be processed without observers being aware of it. The case for perception without awareness has almost always been made with the use of facial expressions. In view of the similarities between facial and bodily expressions for rapid perception and communication of emotional signals, we conjectured that perception of bodily expressions may also not necessarily require visual awareness. Our study investigates the role of visual awareness in the perception of bodily expressions using a backward masking technique in combination with confidence ratings on a trial-by-trial basis. Participants had to detect in three separate experiments masked fearful, angry and happy bodily expressions among masked neutral bodily actions as distractors and subsequently the participants had to indicate their confidence. The onset between target and mask (Stimulus Onset Asynchrony, SOA) varied from -50 to +133 ms. Sensitivity measurements (d-prime) as well as the confidence of the participants showed that the bodies could be detected reliably in all SOA conditions. In an important finding, a lack of covariance was observed between the objective and subjective measurements when the participants had to detect fearful bodily expressions, yet this was not the case when participants had to detect happy or angry bodily expressions.
We test the hypothesis that 12-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid (12(s)-HPETE) and 12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (12-HETE) perfused into the renal pelvis increase afferent renal nerve activity (ARNA) and suppress renin release in rats fed a low-salt (LS) diet via activation of the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) expressed in renal sensory nerves. 12(s)-HPETE or 12-HETE given into the left renal pelvis dose-dependently increased ARNA, which was abolished by AMG9810, a selective TRPV1 antagonist, or by RP67580, a selective neurokinin 1 receptor antagonist, in normal salt or LS-treated rats. 12(s)-HPETE, 12-HETE, or substance P perfused into the left renal pelvis suppressed plasma angiotensin I (Ang I) levels in LS rats, which was abolished by AMG9810 or attenuated by ipsilateral renal denervation (RD). 12(s)-HPETE or 12-HETE increased release of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide from the ipsilateral kidney, which was abolished by AMG9810 but not RP67580, RD, or RP67580 plus RD. Immunofluorescence staining showed that TRPV1-positive nerve fibers located in the renal cortex, medulla, and pelvis, and that the sympathetic nerve marker, neuropeptide Y, but not neurokinin 1 receptors expressed in the juxtaglomerular region colocalized with renin. Thus, our data show that 12(s)-HPETE and 12-HETE enhance ARNA and substance P/calcitonin gene-related peptide release but suppress renin activity in LS rats, and these effects are abolished when TRPV1 is blocked. These results indicate that TRPV1 mediates 12(s)-HPETE and 12-HETE action in the kidney in such a way that dysfunction in TRPV1 may lead to disintegrated regulation of renin and renal function.
A strict control of glucocorticoid hormone responses to stress is essential for health. In blood, glucocorticoid hormones are for the largest part bound to corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG), and just a minor fraction of hormone is free. Only free glucocorticoid hormone is able to exert biological effects, but little is known about its regulation during stress. We found, using a dual-probe in vivo microdialysis method, that in rats, the forced-swim stress-induced rise in free corticosterone (its major glucocorticoid hormone) is strikingly similar in the blood and in target compartments such as the subcutaneous tissue and the brain. However, in all compartments, the free corticosterone response was delayed by 20-30 min as compared with the total corticosterone response in the blood. We discovered that CBG is the key player in this delay. Swim stress evoked a fast (within 5 min) and profound rise in CBG protein and binding capacity in the blood through a release of the protein from the liver. Thus, the increase in circulating CBG levels after stress restrains the rise in free corticosterone concentrations for approximately 20 min in the face of mounting total hormone levels in the circulation. The stress-induced increase in CBG seems to be specific for moderate and strong stressors. Both restraint stress and forced swimming caused an increase in circulating CBG, whereas its levels were not affected by mild novelty stress. Our data uncover a new, highly dynamic role for CBG in the regulation of glucocorticoid hormone physiology after acute stress.
Experimental and clinical findings have shown in the past decade that specific proinflammatory mediators and their cognate receptors are upregulated in epileptic brain tissue. In particular, the IL-1 receptor (R)/Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathways are activated in experimental models of seizures and in human epileptic tissue from drug-resistant patients. Pharmacological targeting of these proinflammatory pathways using selective receptor antagonists, or the use of transgenic mice with perturbed cell signaling, demostrated that the activation of IL-1R type 1 and TLR4 by their respective endogenous ligands, i.e., interleukin (IL)-1b and High Mobility Group Box 1, is implicated in the precipitation and recurrence of experimentally induced seizures in rodents. This evidence highlights a new target system for pharmacological intervention to inhibit seizures by interfering with mechanisms involved in their genesis and recurrence.
Optogenetics allow for timely precise and cell-population specific activation or inhibition of neuronal activity. Hallorhodopsin NpHR is an inward cholride pump, which when activated by orange light, hyperpolarises neuronal membrane and inhibitis action potential generation. We were first to show that transduction of principal neurons with NpHR in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures effectivey attenuates epileptiform activity when exposed to orange light. Our data suggest that optogenetic approach may become a useful method for controlling epileptiform activity, and may open novel avenues to develop alternative treatment strategies for epilepsy.
Autoantibodies to surface proteins that influence neuronal excitability are increasingly found in different forms of epilepsy or encephalitis in adults, and are also beginning to be identified in children. The conditions are often refractory to traditional antiepileptic drugs. Detection of these antibodies can help to identify forms of epilepsy that may respond to immunotherapies.


This study was aimed at examining spatial learning and memory in nonoperated temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Twenty-five patients with a refractory epileptic focus located in the temporal lobe (10 in the right hemisphere and 15 in the left hemisphere) and 25 healthy age-matched controls performed the &quot;Boxes Room,&quot; a virtual reality version of the holeboard. They were trained in 10 trials to locate the reward boxes in a room with 16 of them available. Participants also completed a comprehensive neuropsychological evaluation. Patients performed significantly worse relative to the control group. They traveled longer distances and committed more errors than controls. No differences in performance were found within the TLE group when gender or lateralization of the epileptic focus was considered an independent variable. These findings suggest that the integrity of temporal structures in both hemispheres could be critical to spatial learning and memory and support the spatial component of the task.
Early-life seizures (ELS) are associated with long-term behavioral disorders including autism and ADHD, suggesting that frontal lobe structures may be permanently affected. We tested whether ELS produce structural alterations in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and impair PFC-mediated function using an operant task of behavioral flexibility in rats. Adult rats that had been exposed to 75 flurothyl seizures during postnatal days 1-10 showed decreased behavioral flexibility in the task compared to controls over multiple behavioral sessions, measured as a lever preference asymmetry (p&lt;0.001) and a decreased efficiency of attaining food rewards (p&lt;0.05). ELS rats also showed an increased thickness of the PFC (p&lt;0.01), primarily attributed to layer V (p&lt;0.01) with no differences in cell density. These structural changes correlated with lever preference behavioral impairments (p&lt;0.05). This study demonstrates that the consequences of ELS extend to the PFC, which may help explain the high prevalence of comorbid behavioral disorders following ELS.
We aimed to assess physician knowledge for 2009 guidelines established by the American Academy of Neurology and American Epilepsy Society regarding issues related to pregnancy for women with epilepsy. A questionnaire was developed and distributed to all neurologists and neurology residents practicing in a large Canadian health region serving a population of 1.4 million. Descriptive statistics were obtained and percentage of correct responses was calculated. Forty-five physicians completed the survey (response rate = 83.3%), with a median correct score of 50%. Residents were more likely (93.3%) to state that this information was important to their practice than staff physicians (40.0%). Overall knowledge of outcomes associated with specific AEDs was poor; less than half of the physicians correctly indicated which AEDs were associated with adverse outcomes for the majority of drug-related questions. We recommend multifaceted, interactive implementation strategies for increasing knowledge of guideline contents.
Psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) can be observed in patients with or without epilepsy (mixed and pure PNES). Patients with mixed PNES are usually considered to be a homogeneous group characterized by the coexistent epilepsy. Our study found that patients with mixed PNES were not homogeneous, but could be divided into three groups based on epilepsy type, mental level, comorbid psychiatric disorders, and history of traumatic experiences. Group 1 patients have pharmacoresistant epilepsy, normal cognition, and comorbid anxiety and/or depressive disorders. Here, PNES etiology is the epilepsy-related problems. In group 2 patients, the epilepsy is associated with mental retardation and dependent personality traits. PNES etiology is represented by the reduction or cessation of seizures. The PNES allow patients to continue receiving attention from caregivers. Group 3 patients have epilepsy, normal cognition, comorbid cluster B personality disorders and anxiety disorders, and psychic trauma. Here, PNES etiology is not related to the epilepsy, but to the psychic trauma.
This study was performed to analyze sociocultural beliefs about epilepsy among Guaran communities in Bolivia. People with epilepsy, their family members, the general population, and local health care personnel were interviewed about the meaning of and beliefs, feelings, and practices concerning epilepsy. Epilepsy is called mano-mano, a term that means being in a constant passage between life and death. The disease is attributed mainly to a failure to observe a fasting period and to other eating habits. Natural remedies are the most recommended treatments even though half of respondents reported that antiepileptic drugs may be effective. The concept of epilepsy as an embodied disease with natural causes appears to differ from that documented in other traditional societies. People with epilepsy do not represent a threat to the community, which seems to have an attitude aimed at their protection. Moreover, people from these communities appear to favor a combination of biomedical and traditional care systems.
The superior colliculus (SC), substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNPr), and striatum have been characterized as important structures involved in the modulation of seizure activity. In the current study, bicuculline (GABA(A) antagonist) and muscimol (GABA(A) agonist) were microinjected into the deep layers of either the anterior SC (aSC) or posterior SC (pSC) of genetically developed Wistar audiogenic rats. Behavior and EEG activity were studied simultaneously. Only muscimol microinjected into the pSC had behavioral and EEG anticonvulsant effects in Wistar audiogenic rats, eliciting EEG oscillation changes in both SNPr and pSC, primarily during tonic seizures. The SC of Wistar audiogenic rats thus comprises two functionally different subregions, pSC and aSC, defined by distinct behavioral and EEG features. The pSC has proconvulsant audiogenic seizure activity in Wistar audiogenic rats. Our data suggest that this phenomenon may be a consequence of the genetic selection of the Wistar audiogenic rat strain.
Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) generates contractions by depolarising axons beneath the stimulating electrodes. The depolarisation of motor axons produces contractions by signals travelling from the stimulation location to the muscle (peripheral pathway), with no involvement of the central nervous system (CNS). The concomitant depolarisation of sensory axons sends a large volley into the CNS and this can contribute to contractions by signals travelling through the spinal cord (central pathway) which may have advantages when NMES is used to restore movement or reduce muscle atrophy. In addition, the electrically evoked sensory volley increases activity in CNS circuits that control movement and this can also enhance neuromuscular function after CNS damage. The first part of this review provides an overview of how peripheral and central pathways contribute to contractions evoked by NMES and describes how differences in NMES parameters affect the balance between transmission along these two pathways. The second part of this review describes how NMES location (i.e. over the nerve trunk or muscle belly) affects transmission along peripheral and central pathways and describes some implications for motor unit recruitment during NMES. The third part of this review summarises some of the effects that the electrically evoked sensory volley has on CNS circuits, and highlights the need to identify optimal stimulation parameters for eliciting plasticity in the CNS. A goal of this work is to identify the best way to utilize the electrically evoked sensory volley generated during NMES to exploit mechanisms inherent to the neuromuscular system and enhance neuromuscular function for rehabilitation.


The serine protease subtilisin-A (SubA) induces a form of long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission in the rat hippocampus, and molecular changes associated with SubA-induced LTD (SubA-LTD) were explored by using recordings of evoked postsynaptic potentials and immunoblotting. SubA-LTD was prevented by a selective inhibitor of SubA proteolysis, but the same inhibitor did not affect LTD induced by electrical stimulation or activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors. SubA-LTD was reduced by the protein kinase inhibitors genistein and lavendustin A, although not by inhibitors of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, glycogen synthase kinase-3, or protein phosphatases. It was also reduced by (RS)--methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine, a broad-spectrum antagonist at metabotropic glutamate receptors. Inhibition of the Rho kinase enzyme Rho-associated coiled-coil kinase reduced SubA-LTD, although inhibitors of the RhoGTPase-activating enzymes farnesyl transferase and geranylgeranyl transferase did not. In addition, a late phase of SubA-LTD was dependent on new protein synthesis. There was a small, non-significant difference in SubA-LTD between wild-type and RhoB(-/-) mice. Marked decreases were seen in the levels of Unc-5H3, a protein that is intimately involved in the development and plasticity of glutamatergic synapses. Smaller changes were noted, at higher concentrations of SubA, in Unc-5H1, vesicle-associated membrane protein-1 (synaptobrevin), and actin, with no changes in the levels of synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, RhoA, or RhoB. None of these changes was associated with LTD induced electrically or by the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine. These results indicate that SubA induces molecular changes that overlap with other forms of LTD, but that the overall molecular profile of SubA-LTD is quite different.
Several studies have revealed that manipulation of the renin angiotensin system results in reduced progression of nigrostriatal damage in different animal models of Parkinson's disease. In the present work, the effect of daily treatment of rats with the angiotensin II (Ang II) type 1 (AT(1) ) receptor antagonist candesartan (3 mg/kg per day, s.c.) initiated 7 days before the intrastriatal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) was investigated by means of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell counts in the substantia nigra, and dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid measurements in the striatum. In this experimental set-up, candesartan protected dopaminergic neurons of the nigrostriatal tract against the neurotoxin-induced cell death. However, the beneficial effects of AT(1) receptor blockade were not confirmed when treatment was started 24 h after the lesion, suggesting that candesartan interferes with the early events of the 6-OHDA-induced cell death. Stimulation of the AT(1) receptor with Ang II increased the formation of hydroxyl radicals in the striatum of intact rats as measured by the in vivo microdialysis salicylate trapping technique. This Ang II-induced production of reactive oxygen species was suppressed by candesartan perfusion. Furthermore, the Ang II-induced production of reactive oxygen species was nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate - oxidase and protein kinase C dependent as it could be blocked in the presence of apocynin, an nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate - oxidase inhibitor, and chelerythrine, an inhibitor of protein kinase C. Together, these data further support the hypothesis that Ang II might contribute in an early stage to the neurotoxicity of 6-OHDA by reinforcing the cascade of oxidative stress.
Neurotensin (NT) is a neuropeptide involved in the modulation of nociception. We have investigated the actions of NT on cultured postnatal rat spinal cord dorsal horn (DH) neurons. NT induced an inward current associated with a decrease in membrane conductance in 46% of the neurons and increased the frequency of glutamatergic miniature excitatory synaptic currents in 37% of the neurons. Similar effects were observed in acute slices. Both effects of NT were reproduced by the selective NTS1 agonist JMV449 and blocked by the NTS1 antagonist SR48692 and the NTS1/NTS2 antagonist SR142948A. The NTS2 agonist levocabastine had no effect. The actions of NT persisted after inactivation of G(i/o) proteins by pertussis toxin but were absent after inactivation of protein kinase C (PKC) by chelerythrine or inhibition of the MAPK (ERK1/2) pathway by PD98059. Pre- and postsynaptic effects of NT were insensitive to classical voltage- and Ca(2+) -dependent K(+) channel blockers. The K(+) conductance inhibited by NT was blocked by Ba(2+) and displayed no or little inward rectification, despite the presence of strongly rectifying Ba(2+) -sensitive K(+) conductance in these neurons. This suggested that NT blocked two-pore domain (K2P) background K(+) -channels rather than inwardly rectifying K(+) channels. Zn(2+) ions, which inhibit TRESK and TASK-3 K2P channels, decreased NT-induced current. Our results indicate that in DH neurons NT activates NTS1 receptors which, via the PKC-dependent activation of the MAPK (ERK1/2) pathway, depolarize the postsynaptic neuron and increase the synaptic release of glutamate. These actions of NT might modulate the transfer and the integration of somatosensory information in the DH.
Neuronal networks in the spinal cord termed central pattern generators (CPGs) are responsible for the generation of rhythmic movements, such as walking. The axon guidance molecule EphA4 has been suggested to play a role in the configuration of spinal CPG networks in mammals. In EphA4 knockout (EphA4-KO) mice, the normal alternating walking pattern is replaced by a rabbit-like hopping gait, which can be reproduced when locomotor-like activity is induced in the isolated spinal cord. This hopping phenotype has been explained by an abnormal midline crossing of ipsilateral axons. Here, we investigated the nature of this overcrossing in heterozygous EphA4 (EphA4(lacZ/+) ) mice that showed normal alternating gait and homozygous EphA4 (EphA4(lacZ/lacZ) ) mice with hopping gait. Localized lesions showed that the hopping phenotype is maintained by fibers crossing in the ventral commissure. Using transgenic mouse lines in which glutamatergic, GABAergic and glycinergic neurons are intrinsically labeled, we showed a significant increase in the number of crossing excitatory -galactosidase-positive neurons and a decrease in the number of inhibitory neurons crossing the midline in EphA4(lacZ/lacZ) mice compared with EphA4(lacZ/+) mice. These results show that the hopping phenotype is the result of a change in the balance between excitatory and inhibitory signals across the midline and that EphA4-positive neurons play an essential role in the mammalian CPG.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is an important mechanism thought to mediate changes in synaptic connectivity following various types of experience. We examined the effects of visual discrimination training on LTP in the mature, rodent thalamocortical visual system. Adult rats underwent visual discrimination training in a modified Morris Water Maze containing a Y-maze insert, requiring rats to associate visual cues with the location of a hidden escape platform placed in one of the two goal arms of the Y-maze insert. On the day following successful task acquisition (average of nine training days), rats were anesthetized (urethane), and LTP in the thalamocortical system was characterized. In task-nave rats, theta-burst stimulation of the lateral geniculate nucleus resulted in modest (40%) potentiation of field postsynaptic potentials recorded in the primary visual cortex (V1). Rats trained on the visual discrimination task showed significantly greater levels of LTP (60%), an effect that was not seen in rats trained to swim in the maze without a predictive association between visual cues and platform location. An antagonist of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor NR2B subunit ([R-(R*,S*)]--(4-hydroxyphenyl)--methyl-4-(phenylmethyl)-1-piperidinepropanol hydrochloride (Ro 25-6981); 2mm, applied locally at the recording site in V1) reversed the training-induced LTP enhancement without affecting LTP in task-nave rats. An antagonist of metabotropic glutamate receptors [(2S)-2-amino-2-[(1S,2S)-2-carboxycycloprop-1-yl]-3-(xanth-9-yl) propanoic acid (LY 341495); 2mm] was ineffective in reversing the training-induced LTP facilitation. These data suggest that behavioral (visual) training can result in changes in plasticity exhibited by the mature, thalamocortical visual system that require activation of NMDA receptors containing the NR2B subunit.
Acquisition of a mature dendritic morphology is critical for neural information processing. In particular, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) controls dendritic arborization during brain development. However, the cellular mechanisms underlying the effects of HGF on dendritic growth remain elusive. Here, we show that HGF increases dendritic length and branching of rat cortical neurons through activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway. Activation of MAPK by HGF leads to the rapid and transient phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), a key step necessary for the control of dendritic development by HGF. In addition to CREB phosphorylation, regulation of dendritic growth by HGF requires the interaction between CREB and CREB-regulated transcription coactivator 1 (CRTC1), as expression of a mutated form of CREB unable to bind CRTC1 completely abolished the effects of HGF on dendritic morphology. Treatment of cortical neurons with HGF in combination with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a member of the neurotrophin family that regulates dendritic development via similar mechanisms, showed additive effects on MAPK activation, CREB phosphorylation and dendritic growth. Collectively, these results support the conclusion that regulation of cortical dendritic morphology by HGF is mediated by activation of the MAPK pathway, phosphorylation of CREB and interaction of CREB with CRTC1.
Aerobic exercise may represent a useful intervention for drug abuse in predisposed individuals. Exercise increases plasticity in the brain that could be used to reverse learned drug associations. Previous studies have reported that exposing mice to a complex environment including running wheels after drug conditioning abolishes conditioned place preference (CPP) for cocaine, whereas running can enhance CPP when administered before conditioning. The purpose of the present study was to test the hypothesis that timing of exercise relative to conditioning has opposing effects on cocaine CPP. Male C57BL/6J mice experienced 30 days of running or sedentary treatments either before or after cocaine conditioning. Control animals always received saline and never cocaine, but otherwise underwent the same conditioning and exercise treatments. Animals were given bromodeoxyuridine injections at the onset of conditioning or exercise, and euthanized at the end of the study to quantify survival of new neurons in the hippocampus as a marker of plasticity. Wheel running accelerated extinction of CPP when running occurred entirely after drug conditioning, whereas running delayed extinction when administered before conditioning. A single conditioning day after running was sufficient to abolish the accelerated extinction observed when all conditioning preceded running. Running approximately doubled adult hippocampal neurogenesis, whereas cocaine had no effect. These results suggest that exercise-induced plasticity can facilitate learning that context is no longer associated with drug. However, if drug exposure occurs after exercise, running-induced plasticity may strengthen drug associations. The results provide insights into the interaction between exercise and drug conditioning that could have implications for drug abuse treatments.
The neuropathological hallmark of the majority of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and a class of frontotemporal lobar degeneration is ubiquitinated cytoplasmic aggregates composed of transactive response DNA binding protein 43kDa (TDP-43). Genetic manipulation of TDP-43 in animal models has been used to study the protein's role in pathogenesis. Transgenic rodents for TDP-43 have recapitulated key aspects of ALS such as paralysis, loss of spinal motor neurons and muscle atrophy. Viral vectors are an alternate approach to express pathological proteins in animals. Use of the recombinant adeno-associated virus vector serotype 9 has permitted widespread transgene expression throughout the central nervous system after intravenous administration. Expressing TDP-43 in rats with this method produced a phenotype that was consistent with and similar to TDP-43 transgenic lines. Increased levels of TDP-43 in the nucleus are toxic to neurons and sufficient to produce ALS-like symptoms. Animal models based on TDP-43 will address the relationships between TDP-43 expression levels, pathology, neuronal loss, muscle atrophy, motor function and causative mechanisms of disease. New targets that modify TDP-43 function, or targets from previous ALS models and other models of spinal cord diseases, could be tested for efficacy in the recent rodent models of ALS based on TDP-43. The vector approach could be an important therapeutic channel because the entire spinal cord can be affected from a one-time peripheral administration.

ATP-binding cassette (ABC) proteins play key role in tissue defence by transporting metabolic waste and toxic chemicals out of the cells. Consequently, intact cell systems are required to study xenobiotic interactions with ATP-dependent transporters. The aim of the present study was to set up an intestinal precision-cut slice technique to study the interactions of ABC transporters with xenobiotics. Rat intestinal slices were incubated with verapamil, indomethacin and glibenclamide, and the ability of the above-mentioned drugs to inhibit the multidrug resistance glycoprotein (MDR) and/or multidrug-resistance-associated protein (MRP) was assessed by measuring the intracellular conversion of calcein-AM to fluorescent calcein. The ABC transporters' inhibitors caused a time-dependent florescence increase which reached the maximum value at 30 min. Verapamil and glibenclamide promoted a concentration-dependent intracellular accumulation of calcein (IC(50) 8.110(-6) M, 1.910(-4) M, respectively). The effect of glibenclamide was fully reversed by washing the slices, suggesting the reversible nature of calcein accumulation. These data suggest that the precision-cut intestinal slices are a reliable, simple and fast system to evaluate xenobiotic interactions with ABC transporters in rat and, hopefully, in human intestine.
Centrally applied nicotine causes changes in blood pressure and vasopressin release. The involvement of different neuronal nicotinic receptor subtypes in these actions was investigated in anaesthetized rats. Nicotine administered i.c.v. caused a dose-related increase in blood pressure and renal sympathoinhibition, while i.c. administration also caused a bradycardia. In the presence of the V(1A) receptor antagonist (i.v.), nicotine (i.c) now caused a depressor response along with sympathoinhibition and bradycardia. Nicotine (0.3 mol/kg; i.c.v.) in the presence of the 42 receptor antagonist, dihydro--erythroidine, (i.c.v.) evoked renal sympathoexcitation, while the 7 receptor antagonist, methyllycaconitine, delayed the expected sympathoinhibition. Both receptor antagonists blocked the pressor response. Dihydro--erythroidine (i.c., 10mol/kg) alone caused a transient pressor response and increased renal nerve activity. Methyllycaconitine (i.c., 0.1 mol/kg) alone caused a slow fall in blood pressure and renal nerve activity, while the higher doses caused a pressor response and increased renal nerve activity. It was concluded that for nicotine to release vasopressin, activation of both 42 and 7 receptors is required. The ability of nicotine to cause sympathoinhibition is mediated by 4*-containing receptors, possibly 34 receptors, and that activation of these receptors can override the sympathoexcitatory action of 42 and 7 receptors. The ability of dihydro--erythroidine and high doses of methyllycaconitine i.c. to cause sympathoexcitation and a pressor response is due to receptor antagonists blocking these sympathoinhibitory 4*-containing receptors, which receive a tonic cholinergic input. As the low dose of methyllycaconitine caused sympathoinhibition, this indicates that sympathoexcitatory 7 receptors also receive a tonic input.
There is increased understanding that distinct GABA(A) receptor subtypes mediate different effects of classical benzodiazepines. Here, we aimed to define the contributions of (1)-containing subtypes of the subtype-selective GABA(A) receptor positive allosteric modulators TPA023, ocinaplon, and NG2-73 using drug discrimination. We characterized these compounds with defined subunit preferences in rats that were trained to discriminate either the non-selective benzodiazepine chlordiazepoxide (CDP, 5.0 mg/kg) or the (1)-selective drug zolpidem (1.5 mg/kg). In short, CDP but not zolpidem generalized to the CDP cue. In contrast, zolpidem-trained rats showed opposite effects and generalized to zolpidem but not to CDP, while the response rate reducing effects of both ligands were comparable. Moreover, TPA023, lacking efficacy at the GABA(A) receptor (1) subunit, occasioned dose-dependent CDP-appropriate responding but generalized only to around 10% to zolpidem. Both ocinaplon and NG2-73 completely generalized to both the CDP and zolpidem cue. Overall, our data confirm and extend the previous findings in rats that compounds that lack efficacy at (1)-containing GABA(A) receptors generalize to CDP, whereas the opposite holds true for (1)-preferential compounds, which generalize to the (1)-selective positive allosteric modulator zolpidem. Also, our data support the hypothesis that subtle in vitro differences in  subunit efficacy and/or affinity may eventually have large consequences in vivo. Together, our data demonstrate a reliable in vivo method to determine the contribution of the subtype-selective mechanism(s) of action for novel and subtype-selective GABA(A) receptor positive allosteric modulators, suggesting that a complex activation of multiple  subunits accounts for drug discrimination between non-selective and selective GABA(A) receptor ligands.

Following the theoretical notion that tools often extend one's body, in the present study, we investigated whether imitation of hand or tool actions is modulated by effector-specific information. Subjects performed grasping actions toward an object with either a handheld tool or their right hand. Actions were initiated in response to pictures representing a grip at an object that could be congruent or incongruent with the required action (grip-type congruency). Importantly, actions could be cued by means of a tool cue, a hand cue, and a symbolic cue (effector-type congruency). For both hand and tool actions, an action congruency effect was observed, reflected in faster reaction times if the observed grip type was congruent with the required movement. However, neither hand actions nor tool actions were differentially affected by the effector represented in the picture (i.e., when performing a tool action, the action congruency effect was similar for tool cues and hand cues). This finding suggests that imitation of hand and tool actions is effector-independent and thereby supports generalist rather than specialist theories of imitation.
An accurate estimate of elapsed time is essential for anticipating the timing of future events. Here, we show that the ability to estimate elapsed time on a reaction time (RT) task improved with training during which human participants learned to anticipate the onset of a &quot;Go&quot; signal. In each trial, a warning signal preceded the Go signal by a temporal interval (i.e., foreperiod). The duration of the foreperiod was randomly drawn from a rectangular distribution (1-2s). Participants were required to initiate a response immediately after the Go signal and performed the task for 480 trials/day for 12days. Anticipation should have been governed by the probability that the Go signal would occur (hazard rate), which increased for longer foreperiods. Indeed, RTs decreased for longer foreperiods and were inversely related to the hazard rate. The pattern of RT decrease was well explained by the subjective hazard rate, which was formalized based on the assumption that the uncertainty of estimates of elapsed time scales with time (Weber's law). Notably, RTs demonstrated a more linear decrease as a function of foreperiod in LATE compared with EARLY training sessions. This involved a decrease in the Weber fraction used in the subjective hazard rate. The results indicate that the uncertainty associated with estimating elapsed time was reduced as participants learned and used the hazard rate to anticipate the onset of the Go signal. This finding suggests that the ability to estimate elapsed time improves with training on behavioral tasks that implicitly engage timing mechanisms.
During rhythmic arm cycling, soleus H-reflex amplitudes are reduced by modulation of group Ia presynaptic inhibition. This suppression of reflex amplitude is graded to the frequency of arm cycling with a threshold of 0.8Hz. Despite the data on modulation of the soleus H-reflex amplitude induced by rhythmic arm cycling, comparatively little is known about the modulation of stretch reflexes due to remote limb movement. Therefore, the present study was intended to explore the effect of arm cycling on stretch and H-reflex amplitudes in the soleus muscle. In so doing, additional information on the mechanism of action during rhythmic arm cycling would be revealed. Although both reflexes share the same afferent pathway, we hypothesized that stretch reflex amplitudes would be less suppressed by arm cycling because they are less inhibited by presynaptic inhibition. Failure to reject this hypothesis would add additional strength to the argument that Ia presynaptic inhibition is the mechanism modulating soleus H-reflex amplitude during rhythmic arm cycling. Participants were seated in a customized chair with feet strapped to footplates. Three motor tasks were performed: static control trials and arm cycling at 1 and 2Hz. Soleus H-reflexes were evoked using single 1ms pulses of electrical stimulation delivered to the tibial nerve at the popliteal fossa. A constant M-wave and ~6% MVC activation of soleus were maintained across conditions. Stretch reflexes were evoked using a single sinusoidal pulse at 100Hz given by a vibratory shaker placed over the triceps surae tendon and controlled by a custom-written LabView program. Results demonstrated that rhythmic arm cycling that was effective for conditioning soleus H-reflexes did not show a suppressive effect on the amplitude of the soleus stretch reflex. We suggest this indicates that stretch reflexes are less sensitive to conditioning by rhythmic arm movement, as compared to H-reflexes, due to the relative insensitivity to Ia presynaptic inhibition.
The pathophysiology of L-dopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) in Parkinson's disease (PD) remains poorly understood. The presence of superimposed LIDs clearly differentiates motor performance of dyskinetic from non-dyskinetic PD subjects when they are on medication, but here, we investigated whether their respective motor performance differs while subjects are off L-dopa medication and LIDs are not apparent. We assessed the motor performance of nine dyskinetic and ten non-dyskinetic PD subjects off L-dopa, and of ten age-matched control subjects, during a visually guided tracking task. As previous studies have suggested that linear dynamical system (LDS) models are useful to assess motor performance in PD in addition to overall tracking error, we used LDS models to assess the damping ratio parameter of motor behavior while controlling for disease severity. While overall tracking error did not significantly differ across groups, dyskinetic PD subjects demonstrated a significantly decreased mean damping ratio compared with control and non-dyskinetic PD subjects. For both groups, greater disease severity significantly predicted a lower damping ratio, but even after controlling for disease severity, the damping ratio for dyskinetic subjects was significantly lower. Our results demonstrate, somewhat counter-intuitively, that motor performance of dyskinetic and non-dyskinetic PD subjects differ, even off L-dopa when no dyskinesias are seen. A decreased damping ratio is indicative of a tendency to overshoot a target during motor performance, similar to the dysmetria found in cerebellar patients. We discuss the possibility of motor abnormalities in dyskinetic PD patients off medication in relation to altered functional cerebellar changes described in PD.
Studies on visuomotor adaptation provide crucial clues on the functional properties of the human motor system. The widely studied saccadic adaptation paradigm is a major example of such a fruitful field of investigation. Magescas and Prablanc (J Cogn Neurosci 18(1):75-83, 2006) proposed a transposition of this protocol to arm pointing behavior, by designing an experiment in which the informational context of the upper limb visuomotor system is comparable to that of the saccadic system. Subjects were given terminal only visual feedback in a hand pointing task, assumed to produce a purely terminal visual error signal. Importantly, this paradigm has been shown to induce no saccadic adaptation. Although the saccadic adaptation paradigm is known to induce a predominantly motor adaptation with minor sensory effects, the lack of sensory changes has not been tested in its transposition to pointing. The present study was a partial replication of Magescas and Prablanc's (J Cogn Neurosci 18(1):75-83, 2006) study with additional control tests. A first experiment searched for a possible change in the static visual-to-proprioceptive congruency. A second experiment, based on an anti-pointing task, aimed at separating the sensory and motor effects of the adaptation in a dynamic condition. Consistent with most results on saccadic adaptation, we found a predominant adaptation of the motor components, with little if any involvement of the sensory components. Results are interpreted by proposing a causal relationship between the type of error signal and its adaptive effects.
Amyloid-induced inflammation is thought to play a critical and early role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease. As such, robust models with relevant and accessible compartments that provide a means of assessing anti-inflammatory agents are essential for the development of therapeutic agents. In the present work, we have characterised the induction of inflammation in the rat retina following intravitreal administration of amyloid-beta protein (A). Histology and mRNA endpoints in the retina demonstrate A1-42-, but not A42-1-, induced inflammatory responses characterised by increases in markers for microglia and astrocytes (ionised calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1 (iba-1), GFAP and nestin) and increases in mRNA for inflammatory cytokines and chemokines such as IL1-, MIP1 and TNF. Likewise, analysis of vitreal cytokines also revealed increases in inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, including IL1-, MIP1 and MCP1, induced by A1-42 but not A42-1. This profile of pro-inflammatory gene and protein expression is consistent with that observed in the Alzheimer's disease brain and suggest that this preclinical model may provide a useful relevant tool in the development of anti-inflammatory approaches directed towards Alzheimer's disease therapy.
Blindsight patients can detect fast moving stimuli presented within their blind field even when they deny any phenomenal visual experience. Although mounting evidence suggests the presence of different mechanisms and separate neural substrates underlying the processing of first-order (luminance-defined) and second-order (contrast-defined) motion, the perception of second-order motion in blindsight has scarcely been explored. In the present study, we investigated whether two blindsighted patients (GY and MS) can detect a variety of first- and second-order moving stimuli, and by using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), we assessed the role of V5/MT(+) and V3(+) in coherent motion processing. The hemianopes and four control subjects performed a two-interval forced-choice task in which they judged whether a pattern of coherently moving first-order or second-order textured squares moved in the first or second interval. They were not asked to report the direction of motion because neither of them could do so better than expected by chance. The results showed that MS, who has extensive destruction of the ventral cortical visual pathway as well as his V1 lesion, could not process second-order motion at all, whereas GY could perform second-order tasks but only at high-contrast modulation. This may have introduced first-order components in second-order moving stimuli and provided artifactual cues to motion. Moreover, rTMS delivered over area V5/MT(+) impaired detection of both first- and second-order motion in undamaged control subjects, whereas rTMS over V3(+) did not impair their performance in any of the stimuli employed. On the other hand, rTMS over V3(+) did impair GY's detection of first-order motion and high-contrast second-order moving textured squares that are likely to contain artifactual luminance cues. rTMS over V5/MT(+) impaired first-order motion detection in MS. Overall, the results suggest that neither of the blindsight patients can detect artifact-free second-order motion.
The relationship between risk-taking behavior and alcohol use disorder (AUD) symptoms is poorly understood. This study employed a modified version of a behavioral measure of risk-taking, the Balloon Analogue Risk Task (BART), to examine its relationship to alcohol use and related symptoms in a community sample of individuals with or at risk for AUD. A total of 158 (71.9% male) participants completed a testing battery that included the BART, a structured diagnostic interview for AUD, and measures of alcohol use and related problems. Estimates of IQ and working memory were assessed as covariates. Results indicated that the relationship between risk-taking propensity, as assessed by the BART, and alcohol problems was significant and negative. Individuals with higher symptom count made fewer pumps per trial on the BART, indicating less risk-taking. It is important to note that this relationship was attenuated when controlling for estimated IQ and working memory span. Further examination demonstrated that IQ and age mediated the relationship between risk-taking propensity and symptom count. The main negative relationship observed between risk-taking on the BART and alcohol use and AUD symptomatology in this sample stands in contrast to the positive relationships observed in adolescent and nonclinical samples. Together, these findings highlight the need to consider development and the course of addiction to fully elucidate the effects of risky-decision making on AUD liability. Furthermore, our results demonstrate the importance of inclusion of neurocognitive covariates (IQ), as well as demographic variables (age) when using this task.
An innovative &quot;2-D high performance liquid electrophoresis&quot; (2-D HPLE) technology was used to identify serum biomarkers associated with the early stage of breast cancer in addition to other more advanced stages. 2-D HPLE is a newly developed electrophoretic technology that separates 100s of serum albumin complexes on a polyvinyl membrane based on their surface charges. Association of cancer proteins or their fragments (biomarkers) with pre-existing albumin complexes in the blood of cancer patients results in altered mobility on the membrane. Using 2-D HPLE we identified that a specific fragment of G-protein coupled receptor-associated sorting protein 1 (GASP-1) was present in the sera of patients with early stage disease but absent in sera of normal patients. GASP-1 has been shown to modulate lysosomal sorting and functional down-regulation of a variety of G-protein coupled receptors in neuronal cells. However, no reports have linked GASP-1 to breast cancer pathogenesis. GASP-1 was detected in tumor extracts of 7 cases of Stage 2 and Stage 3 breast cancers, but not in adjacent normal tissue as revealed by western blot analysis using an antibody developed against a GASP-1 peptide identified by our 2-D HPLE technology. Using this antibody, we immunohistochemically detected over-expression of GASP-1 in all of 107 cases of archived ductal breast carcinoma tumor samples, while normal adjacent breast tissue from 12 cases of ductal carcinoma showed little or no staining. Additionally, all 10 cases of metastatic breast carcinoma present in lymph nodes were positive. Strong positive GASP-1 staining was observed in all tumor tissue including ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and invasive ductal carcinoma. Additionally, we observed a wide spectrum of enhanced staining of premalignant ductal epithelial cells present in benign ducts and those found in atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH). These studies identify GASP-1 as a potential new serum and tumor biomarker for breast cancer and suggest that GASP-1 may be a novel target for the development of breast cancer therapeutics.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are extensively used to relieve pain and inflammation in humans via cyclooxygenase inhibition. Our recent research suggests that certain NSAIDs including ibuprofen suppress intracellular RhoA signal and improve significant axonal growth and functional recovery following axonal injury in the CNS. Several NSAIDs have been shown to reduce generation of amyloid-beta42 peptide via inactivation of RhoA signal, supporting potent RhoA-repressing function of selected NSAIDs. In this report, we demonstrate that RhoA-inhibiting NSAIDs ibuprofen and indomethacin dramatically reduce cell death of oligodendrocytes in cultures or along the white matter tracts in rats with a spinal cord injury. More importantly, we demonstrate that treatments with the RhoA-inhibiting NSAIDs significantly increase axonal myelination along the white matter tracts following a traumatic contusion spinal cord injury. In contrast, non-RhoA-inhibiting NSAID naproxen does not have such an effect. Thus, our results suggest that RhoA inactivation with certain NSAIDs benefits recovery of injured CNS axons not only by promoting axonal elongation, but by enhancing glial survival and axonal myelination along the disrupted axonal tracts. This study, together with previous reports, supports that RhoA signal is an important therapeutic target for promoting recovery of injured CNS and that RhoA-inhibiting NSAIDs provide great therapeutic potential for CNS axonal injuries in adult mammals.
Huntington's disease (HD) is the most prevalent polyglutamine expansion disorder. HD is caused by an expansion of CAG triplet in the huntingtin (HTT) gene, associated with striatal and cortical neuronal loss. Central and peripheral metabolic abnormalities and altered insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) levels have been described in HD. Thus, we hypothesized that restoration of IGF-1-mediated signaling pathways could rescue R6/2 mice from metabolic stress and behavioral changes induced by polyglutamine expansion. We analyzed the in vivo effect of continuous peripheral IGF-1 administration on diabetic parameters, body weight and motor behavior in the hemizygous R6/2 mouse model of HD. We used 9 week-old and age-matched wild-type mice, subjected to continuously infused recombinant IGF-I or vehicle, for 14 days. IGF-1 treatment prevented the age-related decrease in body weight in R6/2 mice. Although blood glucose levels were higher in R6/2 mice, they did not reach a diabetic state. Even though, IGF-1 ameliorated poor glycemic control in HD mice. This seemed to be associated with a decrease in blood insulin levels in R6/2 mice, which was increased following IGF-1 infusion. Similarly, blood IGF-1 levels decreased during aging in both wild-type and R6/2 mice, being significantly improved upon its continuous infusion. Although no significant differences were found in motor function in R6/2-treated mice, IGF-1 treatment highly improved paw clasping scores. In summary, these results suggest that IGF-1 has a protective role against HD-associated impaired glucose tolerance, by enhancing blood insulin levels.


Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common, early-onset and enduring neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by developmentally inappropriate deficits in attention, hyperactivity, increased impulsivity and emotional dysregulation, resulting in impairments in multiple domains of personal and professional life. ADHD has long been considered a disorder of childhood that resolves gradually with maturation during adolescence; however, this view was contested by systematic follow-up studies documenting the persistence of ADHD across the lifespan. In this article, we present converging evidence from clinical and genetic studies arguing for a remarkable perseverance of ADHD-related symptomatology, taking into account the disorder's variable and changing phenotype moderated by a high rate of comorbidity throughout the lifecycle. We also cover findings highlighting alterations in structural and functional neuroanatomy based on neuropsychological, psychophysiological and brain imaging approaches, and discuss options for deficit-focused pharmacological and psychotherapeutic interventions at different stages of life. In addition, we develop a fusion model of disease risk underlying the pathway to ADHD etiology. Finally, we argue for large-scale, systematic studies to explore factors predicting the long-term outcome of the disease and the possibilities to exploit those predictors with more personalized treatment strategies to enhance remittance and/or coping.
Gut functions such as digestion and absorption are essential to life and the emerging insights into the gut-brain axis - that is, the cross talk between the enteric and CNS - point towards critical links between (eating) behavior, psychology, whole body and gut physiology, and digestive and overall health. While proteomics is ideally positioned to shed more light on these interactions, be it applied to the periphery (e.g., blood) or the locus of action (i.e., the gut), it is to date largely underexploited, mainly because of challenging sampling and tissue complexity. In view of the contrast between potential and current delivery of proteomics in the context of intestinal health, this article briefs the reader on the state-of-the-art of molecular intestinal research, reviews current proteomic studies (explicitly focusing on the most recent ones that target inflammatory bowel disease patient samples) and argues for an expansion of this research field.
Degeneration of corpus callosum appears in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) before clinical signs of upper motor neuron death. Considering the ALS-associated impairment of astrocytic glutamate uptake, we have characterized the expression and activity of the glutamate transporter isoforms GLT-1a and GLT-1b in the corpus callosum of transgenic rats expressing a mutated form of the human superoxide dismutase 1 (hSOD1(G93A)). We have also studied the effect of peptide histidine isoleucine (PHI), a vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)/pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) receptor 2 (VPAC(2)) agonist on glutamate transporters both in vivo and in callosal astrocytes. Before the onset of motor symptoms, the expression of both transporter isoforms was correlated with a constitutive activity of caspase-3. This enzyme participates in the down-regulation of GLT-1 in ALS, and here we demonstrated its involvement in the selective degradation of GLT-1a in the white matter. A single stereotactic injection of PHI into the corpus callosum of symptomatic rats decreased caspase-3 activity and promoted GLT-1a expression and uptake activity. Together, with evidence for a reduced expression of prepro-VIP/PHI mRNA in the corpus callosum of transgenic animals, these data shed light on the modulatory role of the VIP/PHI system on the glutamatergic transmission in ALS.

A relevant fraction of human sperm can be maintained in simple phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) for more than 1 week at room temperature, a time that could be doubled if glucose was available. This does not seem to be directly due to sperm mitochondrial activity.
Inherited retinal degeneration in Drosophila has been explored for insights into similar processes in humans. Based on the mechanisms, I divide these mutations in Drosophila into three classes. The first consists of genes that control the specialization of photoreceptor cells including the morphogenesis of visual organelles (rhabdomeres) that house the visual signaling proteins. The second class contains genes that regulate the activity or level of the major rhodopsin, Rh1, which is the light sensor and also provides a structural role for the maintenance of rhabdomeres. Some mutations in Rh1 (NinaE) are dominant due to constitutive activity or folding defects, like autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (ADRP) in humans. The third class consists of genes that control the Ca ( 2+) influx directly or indirectly by promoting the turnover of the second messenger and regeneration of PIP 2, or mediate the Ca ( 2+) -dependent regulation of the visual response. These gene products are critical for the increase in cytosolic Ca ( 2+ ) following light stimulation to initiate negative regulatory events. Here I will focus on the signaling mechanisms underlying the degeneration in norpA, and in ADRP-type NinaE mutants that produce misfolded Rh1. Accumulation of misfolded Rh1 in the ER triggers the unfolded protein response (UPR), while endosomal accumulation of activated Rh1 may initiate autophagy in norpA. Both autophagy and the UPR are beneficial for relieving defective endosomal trafficking and the ER stress, respectively. However, when photoreceptors fail to cope with the persistence of these stresses, a cell death program is activated leading to retinal degeneration.
Neural circuit mapping and manipulation are facilitated by independent control of gene expression in pre- and post-synaptic neurons. The GAL4/UAS and Q binary transcription systems have the potential to provide this capability. Of particular use in neural circuit mapping would be GAL4 and QF drivers specific for neurotransmitters and neurotransmitter receptors. Recently available Drosophila genomic BAC libraries make recombineering large genes including those specific for neurotransmitters and neurotransmitter receptors feasible. Here the functionality of cassettes that allow efficient recombineering of GAL4 and QF drivers based on kanamycin selection is demonstrated in Drosophila. The cassettes should, however, be generalizable for recombineering in other species.
Treatment decisions for patients in the vegetative state often have to be based on the patient's best interests, if the patient's will is not known. Physicians are, however, highly uncertain what kind of treatment is in such a difficult situation the patient's best interests. This article presents new insights from neuroscience and shows how treatment decision making should proceed to reach an ethically justified decision. Pivotal elements are a careful diagnosis using validated behavioural scales, an informed judgment about the existence of awareness and sentience, and an early prognostic assessment. As new imaging techniques and treatment options are not yet clinical standard due to low evidence, the best interests have to be judged in the context of uncertainty. The leading question should be whether the preferred treatment goal can be achieved with a realistic probability and a justifiable benefit-harm-ratio. This has to be judged for the individual patient, considering his personality and communicating with the family members. There cannot be a general answer to the question of best interests in the vegetative state, but only an individual answer in shared responsibility and based on the particular features of a special case.

In retinitis pigmentosa (RP), various mutations cause rod photoreceptor cell death leading to increased oxygen levels in the outer retina, progressive oxidative damage to cones, and gradual loss of cone cell function. We have been exploring the potential of overexpressing components of the endogenous antioxidant defense system to preserve cone cell function in rd10(+/+) mice, a model of RP. rd10(+/+) mice deficient in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) showed increased levels of superoxide radicals and carbonyl adducts (a marker of oxidative damage) in the retina and more rapid loss of cone function than rd10(+/+) mice with normal levels of SOD1. This suggests that SOD1 is an important component of the antioxidant defense system of cones, but increased expression of SOD1 in rd10(+/+) mice increased oxidative damage and accelerated the loss of cone function. Coexpression of SOD1 with glutathione peroxidase 4 (Gpx4), which like SOD1 is localized in the cytoplasm, but not with catalase targeted to the mitochondria, reduced oxidative damage in the retina and significantly slowed the loss of cone cell function in rd10(+/+) mice. Gene transfer resulting in increased expression of SOD2, but not coexpression of SOD2 and mitochondrial Gpx4, resulted in high levels of H(2)O(2) in the retina. These data suggest that to provide benefit in RP, overexpression of an SOD must be combined with expression of a peroxide-detoxifying enzyme in the same cellular compartment.
The mammalian circadian timing system is organized in a hierarchy, with the master clock residing in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus and subsidiary peripheral clocks in other brain regions as well as peripheral tissues. Since the local oscillators in most cells contain a similar molecular makeup to that in the central pacemaker, determining the role of the peripheral clocks in the regulation of rhythmic physiology and behavior is an important issue. Glucocorticoids (GCs) are a class of multi-functional adrenal steroid hormones, which exhibit a robust circadian rhythm, with a peak linked with the onset of the daily activity phase. It has long been believed that the production and secretion of GC is primarily governed through the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) neuroendocrine axis in mammals. Growing evidence, however, strongly supports the notion that the periodicity of GC involves the integrated activity of multiple regulatory mechanisms related to circadian timing system along with the classical HPA neuroendocrine regulation. The adrenal-intrinsic oscillator as well as the central pacemaker plays a pivotal role in its rhythmicity. GC influences numerous biological processes, such as metabolic, cardiovascular, immune and even higher brain functions, and also acts as a resetting signal for the ubiquitous peripheral clocks, suggesting its importance in harmonizing circadian physiology and behavior. In this review, we will therefore focus on the recent advances in our understanding of the circadian regulation of adrenal GC and its functional relevance.
Recent observations suggest the existence of clonazepam abuse. To determine its importance in France, a quantitative and systematic synthesis of all clonazepam data of several epidemiological tools of the Centers for Evaluation and Information on Pharmacodependence (CEIP) network has been performed in comparison with data on others benzodiazepines (BZD). Data on clonazepam and other BZD have been analysed from different epidemiological tools: OSIAP survey that identifies drugs obtained by means of falsified prescriptions, Observation of Illegal Drugs and Misuse of Psychotropic Medications (OPPIDUM) survey that describes modalities of use and data from regional French health reimbursement system. In OSIAP survey, the proportion of clonazepam falsified prescriptions among all BZD falsified prescriptions increased. During the 2006 OPPIDUM survey, the analysis of the BZD modalities of use highlights clonazepam abuse liability (for example 23% of illegal acquisition), in second rank after flunitrazepam. Studies based on data from the French health reimbursed system show that 1.5% of subjects with clonazepam dispensing had a deviant behaviour. Among BZD, clonazepam has the second most important doctor-shopping indicator (3%) after flunitrazepam. All these data provide some arguments in favour of clonazepam abuse liability in real life and the necessity to reinforce its monitoring.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a functional small non-coding RNA and play essential roles in gene regulation in development, differentiation and proliferation. In this study, we investigated expression profiles of miRNAs in the process of normal mouse brain growth from embryonic day 16.5 to ~19 months old by means of DNA microarray and reverse-transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and we examined whether there was any association between the expression of miRNAs and brain growth. The results indicated that a major change in the expression of miRNAs occurred in the brain within the first week to the fourth week postnatally. The data also exhibited the miRNAs that gradually increased and decreased in their levels, over the course of brain growth. Therefore, the current study suggests that miRNAs are capable of becoming a useful biological marker for study of brain growth, and leads to the possibility that gene silencing involving miRNAs may participate in the process of brain growth and perhaps brain aging.
Fluorescent dextran tracers of varying sizes have been used to assess paranodal permeability in myelinated sciatic nerve fibers from control and three &quot;myelin mutant&quot; mice, Caspr-null, cst-null, and shaking. We demonstrate that in all of these the paranode is permeable to small tracers (3 kDa and 10 kDa), which penetrate most fibers, and to larger tracers (40 kDa and 70 kDa), which penetrate far fewer fibers and move shorter distances over longer periods of time. Despite gross diminution in transverse bands (TBs) in the Caspr-null and cst-null mice, the permeability of their paranodal junctions is equivalent to that in controls. Thus, deficiency of TBs in these mutants does not increase the permeability of their paranodal junctions to the dextrans we used, moving from the perinodal space through the paranode to the internodal periaxonal space. In addition, we show that the shaking mice, which have thinner myelin and shorter paranodes, show increased permeability to the same tracers despite the presence of TBs. We conclude that the extent of penetration of these tracers does not depend on the presence or absence of TBs but does depend on the length of the paranode and, in turn, on the length of &quot;pathway 3,&quot; the helical extracellular pathway that passes through the paranode parallel to the lateral edge of the myelin sheath.
The system x(C)- (Sx(C)-) transporter functions to mediate the exchange of extracellular cystine (L-Cys(2)) and intracellular glutamate (L-Glu). Internalized L-Cys(2) serves as a rate-limiting precursor for the biosynthesis of glutathione (GSH), while the externalized L-Glu can contribute to either excitatory signaling or excitotoxicity. In the present study the influence of culture conditions (with and without dibutyryl-cAMP) and GSH levels on the expression of Sx(C)- were investigated in primary rat astrocyte cultures. Sx(C)- activity in dbcAMP-treated cells was nearly sevenfold greater than in untreated astrocytes and increased further (threefold) following the depletion of intracellular GSH with buthionine sulfoximine. This increase in Sx(C)- triggered by GSH depletion was only observed in the dbcAMP-treated phenotype and was distinct from the Nrf2-mediated response initiated by exposure to electrophiles. Changes in Sx(C)- activity correlated with increases in both protein and mRNA levels of the xCT subunit of the Sx(C)- heterodimer, an increase in the V(max) for L-Glu uptake and was linked temporally to GSH levels. This induction of Sx(C)- was not mimicked by hydrogen peroxide nor attenuated by nonspecific antioxidants but was partially prevented by the co-administration of the cell-permeant thiols GSH-ethyl ester and N-acetylcysteine. These findings demonstrate that the expression of Sx(C)- on astrocytes is dynamically regulated by intracellular GSH levels in a cell- and phenotype-dependent manner. The presence of this pathway likely reflects the inherent vulnerability of the CNS to oxidative damage and raises interesting questions as to the functional consequences of changes in Sx(C)- activity in CNS injury and disease.



Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital (formerly Bloorview Kids Rehab) is Canada's largest teaching hospital for pediatric rehabilitation and the only in-patient pediatric rehabilitation centre in Ontario. SickKids is a quaternary-level academic health sciences centre. The acute care neuroscience and trauma patient population at SickKids represents the largest volume of transitioning clients between the two organizations. For years, the number of medically unnecessary days associated with patients awaiting transfer from SickKids to Holland Bloorview for off-site rehabilitation was consistently driven by inefficient processes, multiple handovers, duplicitous efforts, fragmented communication and a lack of timely or complete referral information. Recognizing this situation as a threat to access, as well as a significant risk to patient health outcomes, SickKids and Holland Bloorview embarked on an exciting partnership (Kids in Transition: The Rehab Experience) as part of a larger Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care-funded initiative, the Flo Collaborative.
Auditory cortex updates incoming information on a segment by segment basis for human speech and animal communication. Measuring repetition rate transfer functions (RRTFs) captures temporal responses to repetitive sounds. In this study, we used repetitive click trains to describe the spatial distribution of RRTF responses in cat anterior auditory field (AAF) and to discern potential variations in local temporal processing capacity. A majority of RRTF filters are band-pass. Temporal parameters estimated from RRTFs and corrected for characteristic frequency or latency dependencies are non-homogeneously distributed across AAF. Unlike the shallow global gradient observed in spectral receptive field parameters, transitions from loci with high to low temporal parameters are steep. Quantitative spatial analysis suggests non-uniform, circumscribed local organization for temporal pattern processing superimposed on global organization for spectral processing in cat AAF.
Anuran auditory nerve fibers (ANF) tuned to low frequencies display unusual frequency-dependent adaptation which results in a more phasic response to signals above best frequency (BF) and a more tonic response to signals below. A network model of the first two layers of the anuran auditory system was used to test the contribution of this dynamic peripheral adaptation on two-tone suppression and amplitude modulation (AM) tuning. The model included a peripheral sandwich component, leaky-integrate-and-fire cells and adaptation was implemented by means of a non-linear increase in threshold weighted by the signal frequency. The results of simulations showed that frequency-dependent adaptation was both necessary and sufficient to produce high-frequency-side two-tone suppression for the ANF and cells of the dorsal medullary nucleus (DMN). It seems likely that both suppression and this dynamic adaptation share a common mechanism. The response of ANFs to AM signals was influenced by adaptation and carrier frequency. Vector strength synchronization to an AM signal improved with increased adaptation. The spike rate response to a carrier at BF was the expected flat function with AM rate. However, for non-BF carrier frequencies the response showed a weak band-pass pattern due to the influence of signal sidebands and adaptation. The DMN received inputs from three ANFs and when the frequency tuning of inputs was near the carrier, then the rate response was a low-pass or all-pass shape. When most of the inputs were biased above or below the carrier, then band-pass responses were observed. Frequency-dependent adaptation enhanced the band-pass tuning for AM rate, particularly when the response of the inputs was predominantly phasic for a given carrier. Different combinations of inputs can therefore bias a DMN cell to be especially well suited to detect specific ranges of AM rates for a particular carrier frequency. Such selection of inputs would clearly be advantageous to the frog in recognizing distinct spectral and temporal parameters in communication calls.
Previous studies have shown only modest effects of supramammillary nucleus (SuM) dysfunction on theta frequency and learning in the water maze (WM), with larger effects in other tasks. However, theta recorded from SuM, and used to trigger the production of theta-like oscillations in the hippocampus, produced reversal of the deficit in WM learning produced by theta blocking. We explored this apparent inconsistency by analyzing the relationship between SuM and hippocampal theta in the control group of this theta-blocking experiment using coherence, phase analysis, and the directed transfer function. We found little evidence of an influence of SuM on the hippocampus in the bulk of WM learning-with some possibility of SuM becoming involved briefly later in learning. A learning-related increase in coherence was observed in conjunction with gradual phase reorganization of hippocampal theta in relation to SuM theta. This change in phase dynamics between the two structures was also correlated with a relative increase of the estimated direction of theta propagation from the SuM to the hippocampus. These results are consistent with the previous weak effects of SuM lesions and suggest that the use of SuM as a source to trigger hippocampal theta and recover function is likely to be due to coherence between SuM and some other structure that normally controls hippocampal theta during WM learning.
The neural representation of directional heading is encoded by a population of cells located in a circuit that includes the postsubiculum (PoS), anterodorsal thalamus (ADN), and lateral mammillary nuclei (LMN). Throughout this circuit, many cells rely on both movement- and landmark-related information to discharge as a function of the animal's directional heading. The PoS projects to both the ADN and LMN, and these connections may convey critical spatial information about landmarks, because lesions of the PoS disrupt landmark control in head direction (HD) cells and hippocampal place cells [Goodridge and Taube (1997) J Neurosci 17:9315-9330; Calton et al. (2003) J Neurosci 23:9719-9731]. The PoS  ADN projection originates in the deep layers of PoS, but no studies have determined whether the PoS  LMN projection originates from the same cells that project to ADN. To address this issue, two distinct cholera toxin-subunit B (CTB) fluorophore conjugates (Alexa Fluor 488 and Alexa Fluor 594) were injected into the LMN and ADN of the same rats, and PoS sections were examined for cell bodies containing either or both CTB conjugates. Results indicated that the PoS  LMN projection originates exclusively from a thin layer of cells located superficial to the layer(s) of PoS  ADN projection cells, with no overlap. To verify the laminar distribution and morphological characteristics of PoS  LMN and PoS  ADN cells, biotinylated dextran amine was injected into LMN or ADN of different rats, and tissue sections were counterstained with thionin. Results indicated that the PoS  LMN projection arises from large pyramidal cells in layer IV, whereas the PoS  ADN projection arises from a heterogeneous cell population in layers V/VI. This study provides the first evidence that the PoS  ADN and PoS  LMN projections arise from distinct, nonoverlapping cell layers in PoS. Functionally, the PoS may provide landmark information to HD cells in LMN.

The talking face affords multiple types of information. To isolate cortical sites with responsibility for integrating linguistically relevant visual speech cues, speech and nonspeech face gestures were presented in natural video and point-light displays during fMRI scanning at 3.0T. Participants with normal hearing viewed the stimuli and also viewed localizers for the fusiform face area (FFA), the lateral occipital complex (LOC), and the visual motion (V5/MT) regions of interest (ROIs). The FFA, the LOC, and V5/MT were significantly less activated for speech relative to nonspeech and control stimuli. Distinct activation of the posterior superior temporal sulcus and the adjacent middle temporal gyrus to speech, independent of media, was obtained in group analyses. Individual analyses showed that speech and nonspeech stimuli were associated with adjacent but different activations, with the speech activations more anterior. We suggest that the speech activation area is the temporal visual speech area (TVSA), and that it can be localized with the combination of stimuli used in this study.
Lentiviral vectors are now widely considered one of the safest and most efficient tools for gene delivery and stable gene expression. Even though inducible gene expression cassettes are mandatory for many genetic engineering strategies, most current systems suffer from various issues, such as the requirement of two vectors, which decreases the overall efficiency of the transduction, leakiness and/or insufficient levels of activation of the inducible promoter, lack of selectable marker, low titers, or general issues associated with the cloning of large plasmids. In this article, we describe the design and functional characterization of a set of &quot;all-in-one&quot; multicistronic autoinducible lentivectors. They combine: (1) an optimized drug-inducible promoter; (2) a multicistronic strategy to express living color, selectable marker, and transactivator; and (3) acceptor sites for easy recombination cloning of genes of interest. These polyswitch lentivectors have good titers, very low basal activity, and reversible high induced activity, and can accept a growing number of genes already cloned in entry plasmids. These combined features make them a novel, powerful, and versatile tool for current and future genetic engineering approaches.
Choline kinase is the first step enzyme for phosphatidylcholine (PC) de novo biosynthesis. Loss of choline kinase activity in muscle causes rostrocaudal muscular dystrophy (rmd) in mouse and congenital muscular dystrophy in human, characterized by distinct mitochondrial morphological abnormalities. We performed biochemical and pathological analyses on skeletal muscle mitochondria from rmd mice. No mitochondria were found in the center of muscle fibers, while those located at the periphery of the fibers were significantly enlarged. Muscle mitochondria in rmd mice exhibited significantly decreased PC levels, impaired respiratory chain enzyme activities, decreased mitochondrial ATP synthesis, decreased coenzyme Q and increased superoxide production. Electron microscopy showed the selective autophagic elimination of mitochondria in rmd muscle. Molecular markers of mitophagy, including Parkin, PINK1, LC3, polyubiquitin and p62, were localized to mitochondria of rmd muscle. Quantitative analysis shows that the number of mitochondria in muscle fibers and mitochondrial DNA copy number were decreased. We demonstrated that the genetic defect in choline kinase in muscle results in mitochondrial dysfunction and subsequent mitochondrial loss through enhanced activation of mitophagy. These findings provide a first evidence for a pathomechanistic link between de novo PC biosynthesis and mitochondrial abnormality.
Fields studying movement generation, including robotics, psychology, cognitive science, and neuroscience utilize concepts and tools related to the pervasiveness of variability in biological systems. The concept of variability and the measures for nonlinear dynamics used to evaluate this concept open new vistas for research in movement dysfunction of many types. This review describes innovations in the exploration of variability and their potential importance in understanding human movement. Far from being a source of error, evidence supports the presence of an optimal state of variability for healthy and functional movement. This variability has a particular organization and is characterized by a chaotic structure. Deviations from this state can lead to biological systems that are either overly rigid and robotic or noisy and unstable. Both situations result in systems that are less adaptable to perturbations, such as those associated with unhealthy pathological states or absence of skillfulness.
Short-time Fourier transform (STFT), Gabor transform (GT), wavelet transform (WT), and the Wigner-Ville distribution (WVD) are just some examples of time-frequency analysis methods which are frequently applied in biomedical signal analysis. However, all of these methods have their individual drawbacks. The STFT, GT, and WT have a time-frequency resolution that is determined by algorithm parameters and the WVD is contaminated by cross terms. In 1993, Mallat and Zhang introduced the matching pursuit (MP) algorithm that decomposes a signal into a sum of atoms and uses a cross-term free pseudo-WVD to generate a data-adaptive power distribution in the time-frequency space. Thus, it solved some of the problems of the GT and WT but lacks phase information that is crucial e.g., for synchronization analysis. We introduce a new time-frequency analysis method that combines the MP with a pseudo-GT. Therefore, the signal is decomposed into a set of Gabor atoms. Afterward, each atom is analyzed with a Gabor analysis, where the time-domain gaussian window of the analysis matches that of the specific atom envelope. A superposition of the single time-frequency planes gives the final result. This is the first time that a complete analysis of the complex time-frequency plane can be performed in a fully data-adaptive and frequency-selective manner. We demonstrate the capabilities of our approach on a simulation and on real-life magnetoencephalogram data.
Neuroscience is just beginning to understand the neural computations that underlie our remarkable capacity to learn new motor tasks. Studies of natural movements have emphasized the importance of concepts such as dimensionality reduction within hierarchical levels of redundancy, optimization of behavior in the presence of sensorimotor noise and internal models for predictive control. These concepts also provide a framework for understanding the improvements in performance seen in myoelectric-controlled interface and brain-machine interface paradigms. Recent experiments reveal how volitional activity in the motor system combines with sensory feedback to shape neural representations and drives adaptation of behavior. By elucidating these mechanisms, a new generation of intelligent interfaces can be designed to exploit neural plasticity and restore function after neurological injury.
Intuitive somatosensory feedback is required for fine motor control. Here we explored whether thalamic electrical stimulation could provide the necessary durations and consistency of percepts for a human somatosensory neural prosthetic. Continuous and cycling high-frequency (185 Hz, 0.21 ms pulse duration charge balanced square wave) electrical pulses with the cycling patterns varying between 7% and 67% of duty cycle were applied in five patients with chronically implanted deep brain stimulators. Stimulation produced similar percepts to those elicited immediately after surgery. While consecutive continuous stimuli produced decreasing durations of sensation, the amplitude and type of percept did not change. Cycling stimulation with shorter duty cycles produced more persisting percepts. These features suggest that the thalamus could provide a site for stable and enduring sensations necessary for a long term somatosensory neural prosthesis.
Chemokines production in monocytes/macrophages is crucial in modulating immune responses generated through Toll-like receptor (TLR)-mediated recognition of microbes. During microbial onset, multiple pathogen-associated structures can be present at infection sites, and simultaneously trigger different TLRs. We report here that TLR3, TLR4 and TLR8 engagement induce CCL1, CCL2 and CCL4 production in freshly isolated monocytes. While differentiating cells maintain the capacity to secrete CCL2 and CCL4, CCL1 is no longer induced at later differentiation stages. Although different pairs of TLR agonists have been described to synergistically induce cytokine production in different cell types, agonist combinations cooperate in reducing CCL1 and CCL2, but not CCL4 secretion in freshly isolated monocytes, and fail to rescue CCL1 production at later differentiation stages. The effects of single, but not combined, TLR engagement on chemokine expression mostly occur at transcriptional level, and are IL-10 independent. Conversely, inhibition of CCL1 secretion upon combined TLR engagement is partially rescued by blocking IL-23. A different chemotactic activity of monocyte-conditioned medium on blood mononuclear cells as well as antigen uptake capacity of TLR agonist activated monocytes parallel the regulated production of chemokines. Overall, these findings indicate that simultaneous engagement of TLRs may lead to different patterns of chemokine expression depending on cellular differentiation state, chemokine, and TLR agonist combination. These different responses may be relevant for the distinct but complementary functions of monocytes and macrophages in the immune response, and may have important implications for the therapeutic manipulation of the innate immune system.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), the -herpesvirus prototype, has evolved a wide spectrum of mechanisms to counteract host immunity. Among them, HCMV uses cellular captured genes encoding molecules capable of interfering with the original host function or of fulfilling new immunomodulatory tasks. Here, we report on UL7, a novel HCMV heavily glycosylated transmembrane protein, containing an Ig-like domain that exhibits remarkable amino acid similarity to CD229, a cell-surface molecule of the signalling lymphocyte-activation molecule (SLAM) family involved in leukocyte activation. The UL7 Ig-like domain, which is well-preserved in all HCMV strains, structurally resembles the SLAM-family N-terminal Ig-variable domain responsible for the homophilic and heterophilic interactions that trigger signalling. UL7 is transcribed with early-late kinetics during the lytic infectious cycle. Using a mAb generated against the viral protein, we show that it is constitutively shed, through its mucine-like stalk, from the cell-surface. Production of soluble UL7 is enhanced by PMA and reduced by a broad-spectrum metalloproteinase inhibitor. Although UL7 does not hold the ability to interact with CD229 or other SLAM-family members, it shares with them the capacity to mediate adhesion to leukocytes, specifically to monocyte-derived DCs. Furthermore, we demonstrate that UL7 expression attenuates the production of proinflammatory cytokines TNF, IL-8 and IL-6 in DCs and myeloid cell lines. Thus, the ability of UL7 to interfere with cellular proinflammatory responses may contribute to viral persistence. These results enhance our understanding of those HCMV-encoded molecules involved in sustaining the balance between HCMV and the host immune system.
Spirulina platensis treatment (400 mg kg(-1) for 25 days) effectively suppressed peripheral sensitization via modulation of glial activation and improved motor coordination and restoration of functional motor activity in collagen-induced arthritic rats. Spirulina treatment also resulted in an appreciable reduction of the NF200 accumulation in the spinal cord neurons of arthritic rats. This is indicative of neuroprotective action of S. platensis against glutamate excitotoxicity-induced central sensitization produced by the peripheral joint inflammation in the collagen-induced arthritis. The results suggest that effects of S. platensis may be due to its counter regulation of spinal glial activation and could be a potential strategy for the treatment of arthritis.
A 9-year-old girl presented to the Child Guidance Clinic with clinical features suggestive of depressive episode of 1 week duration. There was history of short febrile illness 3 weeks prior to the onset of the depressive symptoms. MRI scan of brain showed features of acute disseminated encephalomyelitis.



Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) is a unique technique that can directly assess the concentration of various biochemical metabolites in the brain. Thus, it is used in the study of molecular pathophysiology of different neuropsychiatric disorders, such as, the major depressive disorder and has been an area of active research. We conducted a computer-based literature search using the Pubmed database with 'magnetic resonance spectroscopy', 'MRS', 'depression', and 'major depressive disorder' as the key words, supplemented by a manual search of bibliographic cross-referencing. Studies in depression report abnormalities in the frontal cortex, basal ganglia, hippocampus, anterior cingulate cortex, and the occipital cortex. These abnormalities improve after treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, electroconvulsive therapy, and yoga, and thus, are possibly state-dependent. The findings are consistent with other morphometric and clinical studies and support the proposed pathophysiological theory of dysfunction in the neuronal circuits involving the frontal cortex, limbic cortex, and basal ganglia. Spectroscopy also has potential implications in predicting the response to treatment and formulating individualized pharmacotherapy.
Though still in infancy, the field of psychiatric genetics holds great potential to contribute to the development of new diagnostic and therapeutic options to treat these disorders. Among a large number of existing neurotransmitter systems, the serotonin system dysfunction has been implicated in many psychiatric disorders and therapeutic efficacy of many drugs is also thought to be based on modulation of serotonin. Serotonin transporter gene polymorphism is one of the most extensively studied polymorphisms in psychiatric behavioral genetics. In this article, we review the status of evidence for association between the serotonin gene polymorphism and some common mental disorders like affective disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, suicide, autism, and other anxiety and personality disorders. Going beyond traditional association studies, gene-environment interaction, currently gaining momentum, is also discussed in the review. While the existing information of psychiatric genetics is inadequate for putting into practice genetic testing in the diagnostic work-up of the psychiatric patient, if consistent in future research attempts, such results can be of great help to improve the clinical care of a vast majority of patients suffering from such disorders.
Agenesis and hypoplasia of the internal carotid artery (ICA) are rare congenital anomalies, occurring in less than 0.01% of the population. We report a rare case of bilateral hypoplasia of the ICA in a patient with post-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage. We describe the embryological development of the cerebral vasculature and present a review of literature.
Hypoxia ischemia (HI; reduced blood oxygenation and/or flow to the brain) represents one of the most common injuries for both term and preterm/very low birth weight (VLBW) infants. These children experience elevated incidence of cognitive and/or sensory processing disabilities, including language based learning disabilities. Clinical data also indicate more substantial long-term deficits for HI injured male babies as compared to HI injured females. Previously, we reported significant deficits in rapid auditory processing and spatial learning in male rats with postnatal day 1 (P1), P7, or P10 HI injury. We also showed sex differences in HI injured animals, with more severe deficits in males as compared to females. Given these findings, combined with extant clinical data, the current study sought to assess a putative role for perinatal testosterone in modulating behavioral outcome following early hypoxic-ischemic injury in rats. Male, female, and testosterone-propionate (TP) treated females were subjected to P7 HI or sham surgery, and subsequently (P30+) underwent a battery of auditory testing and water maze assessment. Results confirm previous reports of sex differences following HI, and add new findings of significantly worse performance in TP-treated HI females compared to vehicle treated HI females. Post mortem anatomic analyses showed consistent effects, with significant brain weight decreases seen in HI male and TP-treated HI females but not female HI or sham groups. Further neuromorphometric analysis of brain structures showed that HI male animals exhibited increased pathology relative to HI females as reflected in ventricular enlargement. Findings suggest that neonatal testosterone may act to enhance the deleterious consequences of early HI brain injury, as measured by both neuropathology and behavior.
Early brain injury including white matter damage (WMD) appears strongly correlated to perinatal hypoxia-ischemia and adverse neurological outcomes in preterm survivors. Indeed, WMD has been widely associated with subtle to major motor disturbances, sensory, behavioral and cognitive impairments in preterm infants who afterward develop cerebral palsy (CP). Prenatal ischemia (PI) has been shown to reproduce the main features of WMD observed in preterm infants. The present study was aimed at determining in adult rats the impact of PI on brain axons, musculoskeletal histology and locomotor activity. PI was induced by unilateral intrauterine artery ligation at E17 in pregnant rats. We found axonal degeneration and reactive astrogliosis in several white matter regions of adult PI rats. We found mild myopathic and secondary joint changes, including increased variability in myofiber size in several hind limb muscles, decreased myofibers numbers but increased Pax 7 cells and myofiber size in the gastrocnemius, and mild knee and ankle chondromalacia. Although treadmill locomotion appeared normal, several kinematic parameters, such as stride length, amplitude, velocity and leg joint angles were altered in adult PI rats compared to shams. Using intra- and inter-group variability of kinematic parameters, PI seemed to impair the maturation of locomotion on the treadmill. In addition, PI rats exhibited spontaneous hyperactivity in open-field test. Musculoskeletal changes appeared concomitant with mild impairments in gait and posture. Our rodent model of WMD based on PI reproduces the mild motor deficits and musculoskeletal changes observed in many preterm infants with a perinatal history of hypoxia-ischemia, and contributes towards a better understanding of the interplay between brain injury, musculoskeletal histopathology and gait disturbances encountered subsequently.
Patients with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) often report a comorbid depressive disorder. Comorbid depression may negatively influence the long-term outcome of CFS therefore it must be correctly diagnosed and treated. The aim of the present study is to provide a clinical and psychometric assessment of CFS patients with and without depressive features. A comparative analysis between 57 CFS subjects (CDC, 1994), 17 of whom with a comorbid depression, and 55 matched healthy volunteers was assessed to evaluate the presence of any psychophysical distress and alexithymic traits, by means of Symptom Checklist-90-R (SCL-90R) and Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20). The severity of fatigue was also assessed in all CFS patients using the Fatigue Impact Scale (FIS). With regard to psychiatric comorbidity, the SCL-90R scores showed higher levels of somatic complaints in CFS patients than in healthy subjects, whereas augmented depressive and obsessive-compulsive symptoms were observed only in the depressed CFS subgroup. When comparing the TAS-20 scores, we observed a selective impairment in the capacity to identify feelings and emotions, as measured by the Difficulty in Identifying Feelings subscale (DIF), non-depressed CFS patients showing an intermediate score between depressed CFS and healthy controls. Finally, in terms of FIS scores, a statistical trend versus a higher fatigue severity in depressed CFS patients, with respect to non-depressed ones, was observed. In conclusion, comorbid depression in CFS significantly increased the level of psychophysical distress and the severity of alexithymic traits. These findings suggest an urgent need to address and treat depressive disorders in the clinical care of CFS cases, to improve social functioning and quality of life in such patients.
Patients with personality disorders are prescribed psychotropic medications with greater frequency than almost any other diagnostic group. Prescribing practices in these populations are often based on anecdotal evidence rather than rigorous data. Although evidence-based psychotherapy remains an integral part of treatment, Axis II psychopathology is increasingly conceptualized according to neurobiological substrates that correspond to specific psychopharmacological strategies. We summarize the best available evidence regarding medication treatment of personality disordered patients and provide optimal strategies for evidence-based practice. Most available evidence is concentrated around borderline and schizotypal personality disorders, with some additional evidence concerning the treatment of avoidant and antisocial personality disorders. Although maladaptive personality symptoms respond to antidepressants, antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, and other medications, evidence-based pharmacotherapy is most useful in treating circumscribed symptom domains and induces only partial improvement. Most available evidence supports use of medication in reducing impulsivity and aggression, characteristic of borderline and antisocial psychopathology. Efforts have also begun to reduce psychotic-like symptoms and improve cognitive deficits characteristic of schizotypy. Indirect evidence is also provided for psychopharmacological reduction of social anxiety central to avoidant personality disorder. Evidence-based practice requires attention to domains of expected clinical improvement associated with a medication, relative to the potential risks. The development of future rational pharmacotherapy will require increased understanding of the neurobiological underpinnings of personality disorders and their component dimensions. Increasing efforts to translate personality theory and social cognitive neuroscience into increasingly specific neurobiological substrates may provide more effective targets for pharmacotherapy.
Accumulating evidence reveals that synaptic dysfunction precedes neuronal loss in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. Intriguingly, synaptic abnormality is also implicated in a myriad of psychiatric disorders including depression. In particular, alterations in spine density and morphology have been associated with aberrant synaptic activity in these diseased brains. Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of spine morphogenesis, synaptic function and plasticity under physiological and pathological conditions will therefore provide critical insights for the development of potential therapeutic agents against these diseases. Here we summarize existing knowledge on some of the molecular players in synaptic plasticity, and highlight how these findings from basic neuroscientific research aid in the identification of novel drug leads for the development of therapeutics.
Pharmacological blockade of norepinephrine (NE) reuptake is clinically effective in treating several mental disorders. Drugs that bind to the NE transporter (NET) alter both protein levels and activity of NET and also the catecholamine synthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). We examined the rat prefrontal cortex (PFC) by electron microscopy to determine whether the density and subcellular distribution of immunolabelling for NET and co-localization of NET with TH within individual NE axons were altered by chronic treatment with the selective NE uptake inhibitor desipramine (DMI). Following DMI treatment (21 d, 15 mg/kg.d), NET-immunoreactive (ir) axons were significantly less likely to co-localize TH. This finding is consistent with reports of reduced TH levels and activity in the locus coeruleus after chronic DMI and indicates a reduction of NE synthetic capacity in the PFC. Measures of NET expression and membrane localization, including the number of NET-ir profiles per tissue area sampled, the number of gold particles per NET-ir profile area, and the proportion of gold particles associated with the plasma membrane, were similar in DMI- and vehicle-treated rats. These findings were verified using two different antibodies directed against distinct epitopes of the NET protein. The results suggest that chronic DMI treatment does not reduce NET expression within individual NE axons in vivo or induce an overall translocation of NET protein away from the plasma membrane in the PFC as measured by ultrastructural immunogold labelling. Our findings encourage consideration of possible post-translational mechanisms for regulating NET activity in antidepressant-induced modulation of NE clearance.
Both Loewald's relational theory of memory and the Self-Memory System (SMS) of cognitive neuroscience describe a dual memory system, one system that is experience-near sensory-perceptual, and the other, symbolic and conceptual. In contrast to perspectives that locate therapeutic action in either altering implicit procedural memories or interpreting explicit historical content, we argue that psychological health emerges from effective integration of both memory systems, achieved through a combination of transference dynamics and analytic insight. We support this position by elaborating four key assumptions of the loewaldian and SMS perspectives, followed by application to a clinical example. We highlight the power of certain integrative autobiographical memories called 'self-defining memories' in assisting an understanding of transference dynamics and providing metaphoric touchstones to guide subsequent treatment.
Conventional and quantitative electroencephalography (EEG and qEEG, respectively) may enhance clinical diagnosis and treatment planning provided to persons with mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) and postconcussive symptoms. Effective and appropriate use of EEG and qEEG in this context requires expert-level knowledge of these technologies, mTBI, and the differential diagnosis for postconcussive symptoms. A practical and brief review from the perspective of a clinician-scientist engaged principally in the care and study of persons with mTBI therefore may be of use and value to other clinicians and scientists interested in these matters. Toward that end, this article offers an overview of the current applications of conventional EEG and qEEG to the study and clinical evaluation of persons with mTBI. The clinical case definition of TBI, the differential diagnosis of post-injury neuropsychiatric disturbances, and the typical course of recovery following mTBI are reviewed. With this background and context, the strengths and limitations of the literature describing EEG and qEEG studies in this population are considered. The implications of this review on the applications of these electrophysiologic assessments to the clinical evaluation of persons with mTBI and postconcussive symptoms are then considered. Finally, suggestions are offered regarding the design of future studies using these technologies in this population. Although this review may be of interest and value to professionals engaged in clinical or research electrophysiology in their daily work, it is intended to serve more immediately the needs of clinicians less familiar with these types of clinical electrophysiologic assessments.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) and oscillatory activity from the human electroencephalogram (EEG) provides a rich source of data that helps elucidate specific processing impairments in TBI patients. This review will focus on some of the central and disabling cognitive deficits in TBI and how broadband ERP markers and the spectral content of the EEG can help explain abnormalities in brain function that impact upon processing speed, sustained attention, performance monitoring, inhibitory control and cognitive flexibility. Physiological signals also provide useful outcome markers in cognitive intervention studies in conjunction with behavioural endpoints. Potential rehabilitation approaches utilising electrophysiological markers of recovery are also discussed. Progress has been made in recent years in defining key pathophysiological mechanisms in the context of sensitive laboratory paradigms. However, aberrant physiological signals need to be understood more clearly in future studies in terms of the neuroanatomical impact of injury, particularly in relation to the most common type of damage in TBI, disrupting extended white matter fibres.
The spontaneously hypertensive stroke prone rat is best known as an inducible model of large artery stroke. Spontaneous strokes and stroke propensity in the spontaneously hypertensive stroke prone rat are less well characterized; however, could be relevant to human lacunar stroke. We systematically reviewed the literature to assess the brain tissue and small vessel pathology underlying the spontaneous strokes of the spontaneously hypertensive stroke prone rat. We searched systematically three online databases from 1970 to May 2010; excluded duplicates, reviews, and articles describing the consequences of induced middle cerebral artery occlusion or noncerebral pathology; and recorded data describing brain region and the vessels examined, number of animals, age, dietary salt intake, vascular and tissue abnormalities. Among 102 relevant studies, animals sacrificed after developing stroke-like symptoms displayed arteriolar wall thickening, subcortical lesions, enlarged perivascular spaces and cortical infarcts and hemorrhages. Histopathology, proteomics and imaging studies suggested that the changes not due simply to hypertension. There may be susceptibility to endothelial permeability increase that precedes arteriolar wall thickening, degeneration and perivascular tissue changes; systemic inflammation may also precede cerebrovascular changes. There were very few data on venules or tissue changes before hypertension. The spontaneously hypertensive stroke prone rat shows similar features to human lacunar stroke and may be a good spontaneous model of this complex human disorder. Further studies should focus on structural changes at early ages and genetics to identify factors that predispose to vascular and brain damage.
Stroke and dementia have typically been housed in different taxonomies. They are considered to be exemplars of very different forms of brain injury: stroke as an acute vascular injury and dementia as a progressive degenerative disease. Yet there is definite overlap between the two conditions: stroke increases the likelihood of developing dementia. Recent work has confirmed that vascular risk factors such as diabetes and hypertension predispose to dementia. However, in the absence of any clear findings of a direct pathway from stroke to degenerative dementia, the separation has persisted. In this review, we summarize the evidence relating to whether stroke can initiate or promote degenerative dementia and, in particular, Alzheimer's disease. The evidence comes from autopsy studies, from brain imaging studies, from studies of patients with symptomatic stroke and from studies in CADASIL. A number of studies have demonstrated that stroke can lead to changes in brain volume and cognitive performance, although generally of a different profile to the atrophy and cognitive decline seen in Alzheimer's disease. Much of the evidence is circumstantial, and does little to support a claim that stroke triggers neurodegenerative dementia. The question, then, remains open. None of the studies reviewed included the necessary longitudinal follow-up of stroke patients incorporating cognitive assessment, imaging and pathology. Given the high prevalence and substantial burden of dementia, there is much to be gained from identifying prognostic markers and it remains an exciting idea that we might be able to identify a subgroup of stroke patients who are at high risk.

A bacterial isolate, with an optimum growth temperature of about 50 C and an optimum pH for growth between 7.5 and 8.5, was recovered from a hot spring in the Furnas area of the Island of So Miguel in the Azores. The novel isolate is orange-pigmented, forms non-motile, rod-shaped cells that stain Gram-negative, is strictly aerobic, oxidase-positive and catalase-negative. The major fatty acids of strain TU-20(T) are 16:16c, 17:0 iso 3-OH and 15:0 iso. Menaquinone 6 is the major respiratory quinone. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, physiological and biochemical characteristics, we describe a novel species of a novel genus represented by strain TU-20(T) (=DSM 21410(T )=LMG 24594(T)) for which we propose the name Schleiferia thermophila gen nov., sp. nov. We also propose the family Schleiferiaceae fam. nov. to accommodate this new genus.

Neurotechnology provides means to engage micro- and macrostructural networks of the brain to both mitigate the manifestations of several neurological and psychiatric disorders, and alter cognition and motoric activity. Such capacity also generates questions of how these interventions may affect personal identity. This paper discusses the ethical implications regarding changes to personal identity that arise from the therapeutic use of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and deep brain stimulation (DBS) technologies. In addition, we raise the question of whether changes in personal identity, as a side effect of these interventions, are ethically acceptable and whether such alterations of personality foster patients' sense of well-being and autonomy. First, we provide a series of case vignettes that afford an overview of the ways that various neurological interventions can affect personal identity. Second, we offer a brief working definition of personal identity in order to delineate an ethical framework that we deem necessary for the responsible use of neurostimulation technologies. In so doing, we argue that neurostimulation therapy, as a doctoring act, should be directed, and adherent to goals of restoring and/or preserving patients' personal identity. To this end, we offer an ethical framework that we believe enables sound decisions about the right and good use of TMS and DBS.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is emerging as a new treatment and neurophysiological research tool for psychiatric disorders. Recent publications suggest that this modality will also serve as a treatment and research tool in child and adolescent psychiatry. Current reports on therapeutic trials of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in adolescents have primarily focused on depression. However, other pilot work involves the treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism and schizophrenia. Neurophysiological studies typically utilize single and paired-pulse TMS paradigms which index cortical excitability and inhibition. Initial studies have focused on ADHD, autism, and depression. General knowledge regarding TMS among child and adolescent psychiatrists is lacking. The aim of this review is to provide an overview of TMS in the context of child and adolescent psychiatry, discuss recent therapeutic and neurophysiological studies, and examine relevant ethical considerations.
The twenty-first century arrived in the middle of a global epidemic of metabolic syndrome (MS) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2). It is generally accepted that an excess of nutrients linked to a low physical activity triggers the problem. However, the molecular features that interact to develop the MS are not clear. In an effort to understand and control them, they have been extensively studied, but this goal has not been achieved yet. Nonhuman animal models have been used to explore diet and genetic factors in which experimental conditions are controlled. For example, only one factor in the diet, such as fats or carbohydrates can be modified to better understand a single change that would be impossible in humans. Most of the studies have been done in rodents. However, it is difficult to directly compare them, because experiments are different in more than one variable; genetic strains, amount, and the type of fat used in the diet and sex. Thus, the only possible criteria of comparison are the relevance of the observed changes. We review different animal models and add some original observations on short-term changes in metabolism and beta cells in our own model of adult Wistar rats that are not especially prone to get fat or develop DM2, treated with 20% sucrose in drinking water. One early change observed in pancreatic beta cells is the increase in GLUT2 expression that is located to the membrane of the cells. This change could partially explain the presence of insulin hypersecretion and hyperinsulinemia in these rats. Understanding early changes that lead to MS and in time to pancreatic islet exhaustion is an important biomedical problem that may contribute to learn how to prevent or even reverse MS, before developing DM2.
This cross-sectional study examined the association between tobacco smoking and suicidal ideation in school-aged children from 9 countries in Africa, the Americas, and the Western Pacific region. Data were collected through the Global school-based Student Health Survey, a collaborative surveillance project between the World Health Organization, the United Nations, UNICEF, UNESCO, UNAIDS, and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Suicidal ideation, tobacco smoking, and drug and alcohol use were included in loglinear models to analyze higher order interactions among suicidality and regional and country differences separately for boys and girls. School-aged children who reported suicidal ideation had a higher risk of smoking tobacco even after controlling for drug and alcohol misuse. Furthermore, analyses indicated higher order interactions between suicidal ideation and countries belonging to different regions with different exposure to tobacco smoking among school-aged children. Future studies analyzing the mechanism and sequencing of the relationship among suicidal ideation and tobacco smoking should explore cultural factors.
Homeless and street-involved youth are considered an extremely high risk group, with many studies highlighting trajectories characterized by abusive, neglectful, and unstable family histories, victimization and criminal involvement while on the streets, high rates of physical and mental illness, and extremely high rates of mortality. While there exists a substantial body of knowledge regarding risk, in recent years attention has been increasingly shifting to the examination of resilience, intervention, and service delivery models for these young people. The present study describes the findings from a quantitative examination of personal and street-related demographics, psychological distress, self-esteem, resilience, and suicidality among 47 homeless and street-involved youth. Key findings indicate that the apparent erosion of mental health variables, including resilience, occurs as a function of how long the youths have been without stable housing. Finally, those youths' perceived resilience was associated with less suicidal ideation whereas higher psychological distress was associated with higher suicidal ideation, even when accounting for resiliency.
A growing number of studies have examined the prevalence and correlates of psychopathology in Veterans of Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom (OEF-OIF), but few have examined determinants of resilience in this population. This study employed a novel approach to classify psychological resilience in a cross-sectional sample of OEF-OIF Veterans. A total of 272 predominantly older reserve/National Guard OEF/OIF Veterans completed a mail survey that assessed combat exposure, psychopathology, psychosocial functioning, and aspects of social support. Cluster analysis of scores on measures of combat exposure and PTSD symptoms revealed that a three-group solution best fit the data: Controls (low combat exposure, low PTSD symptoms); PTSD (high combat exposure, high PTSD symptoms); and Resilient (high combat exposure, low PTSD symptoms). Compared to the PTSD group, the Resilient group was more likely to be in a relationship and active duty; they also scored lower on a measure of psychosocial dysfunction, and higher on measures of psychological resilience and postdeployment social support. Logistic regression analysis revealed that being in a relationship, having fewer psychosocial difficulties, and reporting greater perceptions of purpose/control and family support and understanding were significantly associated with resilient group membership. Results of this study demonstrate a novel approach to classifying psychological resilience and suggest that interventions to mitigate psychosocial difficulties, enhance perceptions of purpose and control, and bolster family support and understanding may help promote resilience to combat-related PTSD in OEF-OIF Veterans.


There is a growing interest in developing a deeper level of understanding of the complex phenomena that make up the aging process. Efforts to pursue questions using a multivariate and ecologically valid approaches that include biological and behavioral factors have led to significant advances in our knowledge. This special issue presents a collection of papers that represent this &quot;biobehavioral&quot; perspective. Little is known concerning the biobehavioral aspects of Hispanic health and there is a dearth of systematic study of how individual biological factors interact with the environmental and cultural factors to affect health outcomes among the swiftly growing older population of Mexican origin, a subgroup of older minorities that exhibits unique morbidity and mortality patterns. The group of papers here represents important contributions to understanding the health consequences in later life for individuals of Mexican descent and addresses several areas of interest including but not limited to diabetes, cognitive impairment, metabolic syndrome, frailty, socio-economic status and contextual factors that impact health. The papers presented here use interesting and useful transdisciplinary approaches that increase our knowledge of health processes in older people of Mexican descent. This special issue also provides excellent examples of the critical linkages between biological variables broadly defined and traditional social stratification, social inequalities, and social justice and the ways in which they interact. The papers taken together suggest that the processes involved in aging and health are complex, particularly in people of Mexican descent, and requires the understanding of mechanisms at multiple causes and levels of analysis.
Neurological concepts applicable to a doctorate in occupational therapy are often challenging to comprehend, and students are required to demonstrate critical reasoning skills beyond simply recalling the information. To achieve this, various learning and teaching strategies are used, including the use of technology in the classroom. The availability of technology in academic settings has allowed for diverse and active teaching approaches. This includes videos, web-based instruction, and interactive online games. In this quantitative pre-experimental analysis, the learning and retention of neuroscience concepts by 30 occupational therapy doctoral students, who participated in an interactive online learning experience, were assessed. The results suggest that student use of these tools may enhance their learning of neuroscience. Furthermore, the students felt that the sites were appropriate, beneficial to them, and easy to use. Thus, the use of online, interactive neuroscience games may be effective in reinforcing lecture materials. This needs to be further assessed in a larger sample size.
Through a case study, the importance of supporting the positive transference is stressed-from both a psychological and neurobiological perspective. The article argues that the neurobiology of expectation underlies transference. This neurobiology has been investigated particularly over the past several decades in work concerning the placebo effect. By understanding the neurobiology of expectation, one gains a better understanding of the neurobiology of the transference. This enables clinical predictions-and decisions-that are informed not just by the teachings of psychology but also by the science of biology.

Previous work suggests that bilateral cochlear implant users are sensitive to interaural cues if experimental speech processors are used to preserve accurate interaural information in the electrical stimulation pattern. Binaural unmasking occurs in adults and children when an interaural delay is applied to the envelope of a high-rate pulse train. Nevertheless, for speech perception, binaural unmasking benefits have not been demonstrated consistently, even with coordinated stimulation at both ears. The present study aimed at bridging the gap between basic psychophysical performance on binaural signal detection tasks on the one hand and binaural perception of speech in noise on the other hand. Therefore, binaural signal detection was expanded to multi-channel stimulation and biologically relevant interaural delays. A harmonic complex, consisting of three sinusoids (125, 250, and 375 Hz), was added to three 125-Hz-wide noise bands centered on the sinusoids. When an interaural delay of 700 s was introduced, an average BMLD of 3 dB was established. Outcomes are promising in view of real-life benefits. Future research should investigate the generalization of the observed benefits for signal detection to speech perception in everyday listening situations and determine the importance of coordination of bilateral speech processors and accentuation of envelope cues.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) often involves sensory and motor problems, yet the proprioceptive sense of limb position has not been directly assessed. We used three tasks to assess proprioception in adolescents with ASD who had motor and sensory perceptual abnormalities, and compared them to age- and IQ-matched controls. Results showed no group differences in proprioceptive accuracy or precision during active or passive tasks. Both groups showed (a) biases in elbow angle accuracy that varied with joint position, (b) improved elbow angle precision for active versus passive tasks, and (c) improved precision for a fingertip versus elbow angle estimation task. Thus, a primary proprioceptive deficit may not contribute to sensorimotor deficits in ASD. Abnormalities may arise at later sensory processing stages.
Research on treatment utilization among offenders with mental health problems and substance use problems, i.e. the 'triply troubled', is scarce. The aim was to contribute to the general knowledge about treatment patterns among the triply troubled. This register-based study explored treatment patterns during a 3-year follow-up among 157 Swedish offenders with substance use problems who had undergone forensic psychiatric assessment. There were three subgroups of treatment users: low treatment, planned substance abuse treatment and substance abuse emergency room visits, and planned psychiatric treatment. About 40% of the participants displayed a stable treatment pattern. Outcomes were less successful for those participants displaying a non-stable treatment pattern. Allocation of treatment resources should take into account the associations between treatment patterns and recidivism into criminality. Also, it should be valuable for clinicians to gather information on treatment history in order to meet various treatment needs.
High-risk offenders treated by California's Proposition 36 court-supervised drug treatment initiative account for a disproportionate number of re-arrests (Hawken 2008) undermining the many successes of the program, yet little is known about their characteristics, treatment experiences, or factors that influence re-arrest. To better understand this group, self-reported and administrative data were analyzed on 78 high-risk (five or more convictions in the previous 5 years) and 1,009 low-risk offenders enrolled during 2004. At intake, high-risk offenders were younger, more were male, and more had prior contact with psychiatric and criminal justice systems. Treatment received and the proportion recidivated during the 30-months after treatment assessment were similar across groups, but high-risk offenders had a greater number of re-arrests. The number of re-arrests was increased by high-risk classification, but decreased by receipt of more treatment services and longer treatment length. Moreover, the number of re-arrests was highest among high-risk offenders with shorter treatment lengths, whereas it was similar to that among low-risk offenders if treatment length was longer. To reduce recidivism among high-risk offenders in court-supervised drug treatment, consideration of psychiatric problems and criminal history is needed, as is receipt of sufficient treatment.
Since the seminal discoveries of Bert Vallee regarding zinc and metallothioneins (MTs) more than 50 years ago, thousands of studies have been published concerning this fascinating story. One of the most active areas of research is the involvement of these proteins in the inflammatory response in general, and in neuroinflammation in particular. We describe the general aspects of the inflammatory response, highlighting the essential role of the major cytokine interleukin-6, and review briefly the expression and function of MTs in the central nervous system in the context of neuroinflammation. Particular attention is paid to the Tg2576 Alzheimer disease mouse model and the preliminary results obtained in mice into which human Zn(7)MT-2A was injected, which suggest a reversal of the behavioral deficits while enhancing amyloid plaque load and gliosis.
The effects of a hypobaric, hypoxic environment and exercise performed under extreme conditions, such as at high altitudes, are intriguing physiological aspects that need to be investigated directly on human climbers. Their skeletal muscle is one of the main tissues that can suffer from hypoxia and physical challenges, which will both define the muscle adaptation and the molecular signature of regenerative capacity. We investigated the muscle regenerative capacity characterizing satellite cells. Our study shows that satellite cells are altered by hypobaric, hypoxic environments and exercise performed at high altitudes. Of note, in human skeletal muscle after this 5,000 m a.s.l. expedition, SCs showed a significantly lower ability to regenerate skeletal muscle, in respect to before this high-altitude expedition. This impairment appears to be due to reduced satellite cell activity, consistent with their decreased myogenicity and fusion ability. Furthermore, at the transcriptional level several pathways, such as cell cycle, myogenesis, oxidative metabolism, proteolysis and sarcomeric protein synthesis, were found dysregulated.
A kinase anchoring proteins (AKAPs) belong to a family of functionally related proteins capable of binding protein kinase A (PKA) and tether it to relevant targets. In this way, AKAPs organize macromolecular complexes to segregate PKA activity and retain signal specificity. In the heart, AKAP-PKA interaction is central to the regulation of cardiac contractility. Phosphodiesterases belong to a large superfamily of enzymes that degrade 3'-5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). They possess diverse catalytic properties and multiple regulatory mechanisms and control the duration and amplitude of the cAMP signal, including its propagation in space. AKAPs, together with PKA, can also assemble phosphodiesterases thereby providing a means to locally control cAMP dynamics at the level of single macromolecular complexes. This allows for the fine tuning of the cAMP response to the specific demands of the cell.
Recent pre-clinical and clinical studies indicate that certain exogenous stem cells and biomaterials can preserve cardiac tissue after myocardial infarction. Regarding stem cells, a growing body of data suggests that the short-term positive outcomes are mainly attributed to paracrine signaling mechanisms. The release of such factors is due to the cell's ability to sense cardiac environmentally derived cues, though the exact feedback loops are still poorly understood. However, given the limited engraftment and survival of transplanted cells in the ischemic environment, the long-term clinical benefits of these therapies have not yet been realized. To overcome this, the long-term controlled delivery of bioactive factors using biomaterials is a promising approach. A major challenge has been the ability to develop timely and spatially controlled gradients of different cues, pivotal for the development and regeneration of tissues. In addition, given the complexity of the remodeling process after myocardial infarction, multiple factors may be required at distinct disease stages to maximize therapeutic outcomes. Therefore, novel smart materials that can sense the surrounding environment and generate cues through on demand mechanisms will be of major importance in the translation of these promising advanced therapies. This article reviews how the cardiac environment can mediate the release profiles of bioactive cues from cells and biomaterials and how the controlled delivery impacts heart regeneration.
Cartilage matrix homeostasis involves a dynamic balance between numerous signals that modulate chondrocyte functions. This study aimed at elucidating the role of the extracellular glucose concentration in modulating anabolic and catabolic gene expression in normal and osteoarthritic (OA) human chondrocytes and its ability to modify the gene expression responses induced by pro-anabolic stimuli, namely Transforming Growth Factor- (TGF). For this, we analyzed by real time RT-PCR the expression of articular cartilage matrix-specific and non-specific genes, namely collagen types II and I, respectively. The expression of the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs)-1 and -13, which plays a major role in cartilage degradation in arthritic conditions, and of their tissue inhibitors (TIMP) was also measured. The results showed that exposure to high glucose (30 mM) increased the mRNA levels of both MMPs in OA chondrocytes, whereas in normal ones only MMP-1 increased. Collagen II mRNA was similarly increased in normal and OA chondrocytes, but the increase lasted longer in the later. Exposure to high glucose for 24 h prevented TGF-induced downregulation of MMP-13 gene expression in normal and OA chondrocytes, while the inhibitory effect of TGF on MMP-1 expression was only partially reduced. Other responses were not significantly modified. In conclusion, exposure of human chondrocytes to high glucose, as occurs in vivo in diabetes mellitus patients and in vitro for the production of engineered cartilage, favors the chondrocyte catabolic program. This may promote articular cartilage degradation, facilitating OA development and/or progression, as well as compromise the quality and consequent in vivo efficacy of tissue engineered cartilage.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term effects of lithium treatment on neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury, inflammation, and neural stem/progenitor cell (NSPC) proliferation and survival. Nine-day-old male rats were subjected to unilateral hypoxia-ischemia (HI) and 2mmol/kg lithium chloride was injected intraperitoneally immediately after the insult. Additional lithium injections, 1mmol/kg, were administered at 24-hour intervals for 7 days. Animals were killed 6, 24, 72hours, or 7 weeks after HI. Lithium reduced total tissue loss by 69%, from 89.414.6mm(3) in controls (n=15) to 27.66.2mm(3) in lithium-treated animals (n=14) 7 weeks after HI (P&lt;0.001). Microglia activation was inhibited by lithium treatment, as judged by Iba-1 and galectin-3 immunostaining, and reduced interleukin-1 and CCL2 levels. Lithium increased progenitor, rather than stem cell, proliferation in both nonischemic and ischemic brains, as judged by 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine labeling 24 and 72hours as well as by phospho-histone H3 and brain lipid-binding protein labeling 7 weeks after HI. Lithium treatment also promoted survival of newborn NSPCs, without altering the relative levels of neuronal and astroglial differentiation. In summary, lithium conferred impressive, morphological long-term protection against neonatal HI, at least partly by inhibiting inflammation and promoting NSPC proliferation and survival.

Data from 2 studies (phase 1 and phase 3) in infants &lt;2 years old (N = 284; mean [SD] age, 12[6.3] months) with refractory partial-onset seizures were pooled to assess the long-term safety up to 1 year (primary objective) and tolerability of adjunctive topiramate treatment (mean treatment duration = 282 days). Monthly seizure rate summaries were also assessed. During the open-label extensions of these studies, study medication was first titrated to a dose of 25 mg/kg/d with subsequent uptitration to the maximum dosage tolerated, or seizure freedom, or a maximum of 60 mg/kg/d, whichever occurred first. The most common treatment-emergent adverse events (30%) were fever (52%), respiratory tract infections (51%), anorexia (35%), and acidosis (31%). Mean (SD) changes from pretreatment baseline to endpoint in Z scores for growth parameters were as follows: -0.82 (1.19) (body weight), -0.45 (1.60) (body length), and -0.36 (1.02) (head circumference).Tolerability in infants was consistent with previous studies.
Changes in thigh muscle volume over 6 months were assessed using magnetic resonance imaging in 11 subjects aged 6 to 47 years with spinal muscular atrophy (4 type 2 and 7 type 3; 4 ambulatory and 3 nonambulatory). Muscle volume with normal and abnormal signal was measured using blinded, semiautomated analysis of reconstructed data. Volumes at baseline and 6 months were correlated with clinical function at each epoch. There was minimal increase in normal (0.3  1.4 mL/cm) and total (0.1  1.3 mL/cm) muscle. Muscle volume correlated closely with clinical function. Minimal interval change in muscle volume is consistent with the established clinical history of minimal disease progression over intervals shorter than 1 year. Relative constancy of muscle volume estimation and correlation with established functional measures suggest a role for segmental magnetic resonance imaging as a biomarker of treatment effect in future therapeutic trials.
Recent research aims at developing a biomarker to predict antidepressant treatment outcomes in major depressive disorder. The Antidepressant Treatment Response (ATR) index has been correlated with response to antidepressant medication (, ) but has not been assessed in a placebo-controlled trial. EEGs recorded at pretreatment baseline and after 1 week of randomized treatment were used to calculate ATR index for 23 subjects with major depressive disorder who were treated for 8 weeks with fluoxetine (FLX) 20 mg (n = 12) or placebo (n = 11). The 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HamD17) assessed symptom severity; ATR index was assessed as a predictor of percent change in HamD17 score, endpoint response ( 50% improvement) and remission (HamD17 score  7). The ATR index was significantly associated with improvement on FLX (r = 0.64, P = 0.01), with a higher mean ATR index for FLX responders than for nonresponders (t(10) = -2.07, P = 0.03). Receiver operating characteristic analysis found a 0.83 area under the curve (P = 0.03), for ATR index as a predictor for FLX, while an optimized ATR index cutoff of 47.3 yielded 100% sensitivity, 66.7% specificity, 75% positive predictive value, and 100% negative predictive value. Importantly, ATR index did not correlate significantly with placebo outcomes. Results extend ATR index findings to include predictive validity with fluoxetine, suggesting that this biomarker has specificity for drug effects.

Humans enjoy a singular capacity to imagine events that differ from the &quot;here-and-now.&quot; Recent cognitive neuroscience research has linked such simulation processes to the brain's &quot;default network.&quot; However, extant cognitive theories suggest that perceivers reliably simulate only relatively proximal experiences-those that seem nearby, soon, likely to happen, or relevant to a close other. Here, we test these claims by examining spontaneous engagement of the default network while perceivers consider experiencing events from proximal and distal perspectives. Across manipulations of perspective in four dimensions, two regions of the default network-medial prefrontal cortex and retrosplenial cortex-were more active for proximal than distal events, supporting cognitive accounts that perceivers only richly simulate experiences that seem immediate and that perceivers represent different dimensions of distance similarly. Moreover, stable individual differences in default activity when thinking about distal events correlated with individual variability in an implicit measure of psychological distance, suggesting that perceivers naturally vary in their tendency to simulate far-off or unlikely experiences.
A number of lines of evidence implicate dopamine in timing [Rammsayer, T. H. Neuropharmacological approaches to human timing. In S. Grondin (Ed.), Psychology of time (pp. 295-320). Bingley, UK: Emerald, 2008; Meck, W. H. Neuropharmacology of timing and time perception. Brain Research, Cognitive Brain Research, 3, 227-242, 1996]. Two human genetic polymorphisms are known to modulate dopaminergic activity. DRD2/ANKK1-Taq1a is a D(2) receptor polymorphism associated with decreased D(2) density in the striatum [Jnsson, E. G., Nothen, M. M., Grunhage, F., Farde, L., Nakashima, Y., Propping, P., et al. Polymorphisms in the dopamine D(2) receptor gene and their relationships to striatal dopamine receptor density of healthy volunteers. Molecular Psychiatry, 4, 290-296, 1999]; COMT Val158Met is a functional polymorphism associated with increased activity of the COMT enzyme such that catabolism of synaptic dopamine is greater in pFC [Meyer-Lindenberg, A., Kohn, P. D., Kolachana, B., Kippenhan, S., McInerney-Leo, A., Nussbaum, R., et al. Midbrain dopamine and prefrontal function in humans: Interaction and modulation by COMT genotype. Nature Neuroscience, 8, 594-596, 2005]. To investigate the role of dopamine in timing, we genotyped 65 individuals for DRD2/ANKK1-Taq1a, COMT Val158Met, and a third polymorphism, BDNF Val66Met, a functional polymorphism affecting the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor [Egan, M. F., Kojima, M., Callicott, J. H., Goldberg, T. E., Kolachana, B. S., Bertolino, A., et al. The BDNF val66met polymorphism affects activity-dependent secretion of BDNF and human memory and hippocampal function. Cell, 112, 257-269, 2003]. Subjects were tested on a temporal discrimination task with sub- and supra-second intervals (500- and 2000-msec standards) as well as a spontaneous motor tempo task. We found a double dissociation for temporal discrimination: the DRD2/ANKK1-Taq1a polymorphism (A1+ allele) was associated with significantly greater variability for the 500-msec duration only, whereas the COMT Val158Met polymorphism (Val/Val homozygotes) was associated with significantly greater variability for the 2000-msec duration only. No differences were detected for the BDNF Vall66Met variant. Additionally, the DRD2/ANKK1-Taq1a polymorphism was associated with a significantly slower preferred motor tempo. These data provide a potential biological basis for the distinctions between sub- and supra-second timing and suggest that BG are integral for the former whereas pFC is implicated in the latter.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP), one of the most important hormones involved in hydromineral homeostasis, is secreted by hypothalamic magnocellular neurons (MCNs). Here, we implemented two critical parameters for MCN physiology into a Hodgkin-Huxley simulation of the MCN. By incorporating the mechanosensitive channel (MSC) responsible for osmodetection and the synaptic inputs whose frequencies are modulated by changes in ambient osmolality into our model, we were able to develop an improved model with increased physiological relevance and gain new insight into the determinants of the firing patterns of AVP magnocellular neurons. Our results with this MCN model predict that 1) a single MCN is able to display all the firing patterns experimentally observed: silent, irregular, phasic and continuous firing patterns; 2) under conditions of hyperosmolality, burst durations are regulated by the frequency-dependent fatigue of dynorphin secretion; and 3) the transitions between firing patterns are controlled by EPSP and IPSP frequencies (0, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64 and 128 Hz). Moreover, this simulation predicts that EPSPs and IPSPs do not modify the spiking frequency (SF) of phasic firing patterns (0.0034 Hz/Hz [EPSP]; 0.0012 Hz/Hz [IPSP]). Rather, these afferents strongly regulate SF during irregular and continuous firing patterns (0.075 Hz/Hz [EPSP]; 0.027 Hz/Hz [IPSP]). The use of the realistic MCN model developed here allows for an improved understanding of the determinants driving the firing patterns and spiking frequencies of vasopressinergic magnocellular neurons.
Central pattern generators (CPGs) frequently include bursting neurons that serve as pacemakers for rhythm generation. Phase resetting curves (PRCs) can provide insight into mechanisms underlying phase locking in such circuits. PRCs were constructed for a pacemaker bursting complex in the pyloric circuit in the stomatogastric ganglion of the lobster and crab. This complex is comprised of the Anterior Burster (AB) neuron and two Pyloric Dilator (PD) neurons that are all electrically coupled. Artificial excitatory synaptic conductance pulses of different strengths and durations were injected into one of the AB or PD somata using the Dynamic Clamp. Previously, we characterized the inhibitory PRCs by assuming a single slow process that enabled synaptic inputs to trigger switches between an up state in which spiking occurs and a down state in which it does not. Excitation produced five different PRC shapes, which could not be explained with such a simple model. A separate dendritic compartment was required to separate the mechanism that generates the up and down phases of the bursting envelope (1) from synaptic inputs applied at the soma, (2) from axonal spike generation and (3) from a slow process with a slower time scale than burst generation. This study reveals that due to the nonlinear properties and compartmentalization of ionic channels, the response to excitation is more complex than inhibition.
Gamma oscillations can synchronize with near zero phase lag over multiple cortical regions and between hemispheres, and between two distal sites in hippocampal slices. How synchronization can take place over long distances in a stable manner is considered an open question. The phase resetting curve (PRC) keeps track of how much an input advances or delays the next spike, depending upon where in the cycle it is received. We use PRCs under the assumption of pulsatile coupling to derive existence and stability criteria for 1:1 phase-locking that arises via bidirectional pulse coupling of two limit cycle oscillators with a conduction delay of any duration for any 1:1 firing pattern. The coupling can be strong as long as the effect of one input dissipates before the next input is received. We show the form that the generic synchronous and anti-phase solutions take in a system of two identical, identically pulse-coupled oscillators with identical delays. The stability criterion has a simple form that depends only on the slopes of the PRCs at the phases at which inputs are received and on the number of cycles required to complete the delayed feedback loop. The number of cycles required to complete the delayed feedback loop depends upon both the value of the delay and the firing pattern. We successfully tested the predictions of our methods on networks of model neurons. The criteria can easily be extended to include the effect of an input on the cycle after the one in which it is received.
The relationship between the dynamics of neural networks and their patterns of connectivity is far from clear, despite its importance for understanding functional properties. Here, we have studied sparsely-connected networks of conductance-based integrate-and-fire (IF) neurons with balanced excitatory and inhibitory connections and with finite axonal propagation speed. We focused on the genesis of states with highly irregular spiking activity and synchronous firing patterns at low rates, called slow Synchronous Irregular (SI) states. In such balanced networks, we examined the &quot;macroscopic&quot; properties of the spiking activity, such as ensemble correlations and mean firing rates, for different intracortical connectivity profiles ranging from randomly connected networks to networks with Gaussian-distributed local connectivity. We systematically computed the distance-dependent correlations at the extracellular (spiking) and intracellular (membrane potential) levels between randomly assigned pairs of neurons. The main finding is that such properties, when they are averaged at a macroscopic scale, are invariant with respect to the different connectivity patterns, provided the excitatory-inhibitory balance is the same. In particular, the same correlation structure holds for different connectivity profiles. In addition, we examined the response of such networks to external input, and found that the correlation landscape can be modulated by the mean level of synchrony imposed by the external drive. This modulation was found again to be independent of the external connectivity profile. We conclude that first and second-order &quot;mean-field&quot; statistics of such networks do not depend on the details of the connectivity at a microscopic scale. This study is an encouraging step toward a mean-field description of topological neuronal networks.
Although associational/commissural (A/C) and perforant path (PP) inputs to CA3b pyramidal cells play a central role in hippocampal mnemonic functions, the active and passive processes that shape A/C and PP AMPA and NMDA receptor-mediated unitary EPSP/EPSC (AMPA and NMDA uEPSP/uEPSC) have not been fully characterized yet. Here we find no differences in somatic amplitude between A/C and PP for either AMPA or NMDA uEPSPs. However, larger AMPA uEPSCs were evoked from proximal than from distal A/C or PP. Given the space-clamp constraints in CA3 pyramidal cells, these voltage clamp data suggest that the location-independence of A/C and PP AMPA uEPSP amplitudes is achieved in part through the activation of voltage dependent conductances at or near the soma. Moreover, similarity in uEPSC amplitudes for distal A/C and PP points to the additional participation of unclamped active conductances. Indeed, the pharmacological blockade of voltage-dependent conductances eliminates the location-independence of these inputs. In contrast, the location-independence of A/C and PP NMDA uEPSP/uEPSC amplitudes is maintained across all conditions indicating that propagation is not affected by active membrane processes. The location-independence for A/C uEPSP amplitudes may be relevant in the recruitment of CA3 pyramidal cells by other CA3 pyramidal cells. These data also suggest that PP excitation represents a significant input to CA3 pyramidal cells. Implication of the passive data on local synaptic properties is further investigated in the companion paper with a detailed computational model.

Increasing perceptual load reduces the processing of visual stimuli outside the focus of attention, but the mechanism underlying these effects remains unclear. Here we tested an account attributing the effects of perceptual load to modulations of visual cortex excitability. In contrast to stimulus competition accounts, which propose that load should affect simultaneous, but not sequential, stimulus presentations, the visual excitability account makes the novel prediction that load should affect detection sensitivity for both simultaneous and sequential presentations. Participants fixated a stimulus stream, responding to targets defined by either a color (low load) or color and orientation conjunctions (high load). Additionally, detection sensitivity was measured for a peripheral critical stimulus (CS) presented occasionally. Increasing load at fixation reduced sensitivity to the peripheral CSs; this effect was similar regardless of whether CSs were presented simultaneously with central stimuli or during the (otherwise empty) interval between them. Controls ruled out explanations of the results in terms of strategic task prioritization. These findings support a cortical excitability account for perceptual load, challenging stimulus competition accounts.
Previous work suggested the association between intentionality and the reported time of action was exclusive, with intentionality as the primary facilitator to the mental time compression between the reported time of action and its effect (Haggard, Clark, &amp; Kalogeras, 2002). In three experiments, we examined whether mental time compression could also be observed in an unintended action. Participants performed an externally cued key press task that elicited one of two possible tones. The reported time of action shifted closer to the tone when the tone was used to indicate the winner of a race (Exp.2) compared to when the tone was meaningless and did not indicate winning (Exp.1). This suggests that reported time of an unintended action could shift toward the effect in some contexts. Furthermore, the results from Exp.2 and Exp.3 (tones were substituted with verbal feedback) showed that a presumed winning action was judged to occur earlier whereas a presumed losing action was judged to be later. These findings therefore support the view that the reported time of action is reconstructed from known temporal information rather than determined by intentionality.
Elevated intracellular calcium generates rapid, profound, and irreversible changes in the nucleotide metabolism of human red blood cells (RBCs), triggered by the adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) activity of the powerful plasma membrane calcium pump (PMCA). In the absence of glycolytic substrates, Ca(2+)-induced nucleotide changes are thought to be determined by the interaction between PMCA ATPase, adenylate kinase, and AMP-deaminase enzymes, but the extent to which this three-enzyme system can account for the Ca(2+)-induced effects has not been investigated in detail before. Such a study requires the formulation of a model incorporating the known kinetics of the three-enzyme system and a direct comparison between its predictions and precise measurements of the Ca(2+)-induced nucleotide changes, a precision not available from earlier studies. Using state-of-the-art high-performance liquid chromatography, we measured the changes in the RBC contents of ATP, ADP, AMP, and IMP during the first 35 min after ionophore-induced pump-saturating Ca(2+) loads in the absence of glycolytic substrates. Comparison between measured and model-predicted changes revealed that for good fits it was necessary to assume mean ATPase V(max) values much higher than those ever measured by PMCA-mediated Ca(2+) extrusion. These results suggest that the local nucleotide concentrations generated by ATPase activity at the inner membrane surface differed substantially from those measured in bulk cell extracts, supporting previous evidence for the existence of a submembrane microdomain with a distinct nucleotide metabolism.
Among purinergic P2X receptor (P2XR) channels, the P2X7R exhibits the most complex gating kinetics; the binding of orthosteric agonists at the ectodomain induces a conformational change in the receptor complex that favors a gating transition from closed to open and dilated states. Bath Ca(2+) affects P2X7R gating through a still uncharacterized mechanism: it could act by reducing the adenosine triphosphate(4-) (ATP(4-)) concentration (a form proposed to be the P2X7R orthosteric agonist), as an allosteric modulator, and/or by directly altering the selectivity of pore to cations. In this study, we combined biophysical and mathematical approaches to clarify the role of calcium in P2X7R gating. In naive receptors, bath calcium affected the activation permeability dynamics indirectly by decreasing the potency of orthosteric agonists in a concentration-dependent manner and independently of the concentrations of the free acid form of agonists and status of pannexin-1 (Panx1) channels. Bath calcium also facilitated the rates of receptor deactivation in a concentration-dependent manner but did not affect a progressive delay in receptor deactivation caused by repetitive agonist application. The effects of calcium on the kinetics of receptor deactivation were rapid and reversible. A438079, a potent orthosteric competitive antagonist, protected the rebinding effect of 2'(3')-O-4-benzoylbenzoyl)ATP on the kinetics of current decay during the washout period, but in the presence of A438079, calcium also increased the rate of receptor deactivation. The corresponding kinetic (Markov state) model indicated that the decrease in binding affinity leads to a decrease in current amplitudes and facilitation of receptor deactivation, both in an extracellular calcium concentration-dependent manner expressed as a Hill function. The results indicate that calcium in physiological concentrations acts as a negative allosteric modulator of P2X7R by decreasing the affinity of receptors for orthosteric ligand agonists, but not antagonists, and not by affecting the permeability dynamics directly or indirectly through Panx1 channels. We expect these results to generalize to other P2XRs.





This article draws a quantitative portrait of British neurology in the interwar and postwar periods through an analysis of the first 100 members of the Association of British Neurologists. Through its presentation of data, this article argues that the members of the Association of British Neurologists were extremely ambitious and as a whole had attained unusually high levels of social, professional, and civil distinction. It makes this argument through an examination of their social and educational backgrounds, the trajectory of their careers, and their achievements in the form of editorships of journals, professorships in medicine, positions in government, honorary degrees, and other indicators of merit. This collective study therefore offers an explanation for how the Association of British Neurologists transformed from an elite club in the 1930s into an organization that eventually came to represent clinical neurology across Britain.
This article aims at illustrating the historical circumstances that led Julius Bernstein in 1902 to formulate a membrane theory on resting current in muscle and nerve fibers. It was a truly paradigm shift in research into bioelectrical phenomena, if qualified by the observation that, besides Bernstein, many other electrophysiologists between 1890 and 1902 borrowed ideas from the recent ionistic approach in the physical-chemistry domain. But Bernstein's subjective perception of that paradigm shift was that it constituted a mere reinterpretation of the so-called preexistence theory advanced by his teacher Emil du Bois-Reymond in the first half of the nineteenth century.
The first case of synesthesia was reported in 1812 ( Jewanski, Day, &amp; Ward, 2009 ). However, it took almost seven decades before the idea of synesthesia entered the mainstream of science and, subsequently, art. There are no known new cases described between 1812 and 1848, but in the following three decades there are at least 11 reported cases of synesthesia and many reviews of these cases. This comes at an important period in the history of the neurosciences, and for sensory physiology in particular. However, the literature that describes synesthesia during this period is largely unknown to contemporary researchers and historians. The aim of this review is to discuss the reports of synesthesia during this period, providing translations of some key passages, and to place these reports within the contextual framework of nineteenth-century neuroscience.
Somnambulism, or sleepwalking, has always been of interest to theologians, writers, philosophers, physicians, and others fascinated by unusual behaviors. This parasomnia, which was defined less precisely in the past than it is today, has long been featured in medical dissertations and books of medicine. Further, Shakespeare, Bellini, and Brown, among others, incorporated it into their plays, operas, and novels. Because some somnambulists turned violent and committed other acts detrimental to society, sleepwalking also demanded attention from legal systems, and guidelines were set for whether somnambulists could be held responsible for their actions. This historical review focuses on these developments pertaining to somnambulism through the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth centuries.
An ontology database is a basic relational database management system that models an ontology plus its instances. To reason over the transitive closure of instances in the subsumption hierarchy, for example, an ontology database can either unfold views at query time or propagate assertions using triggers at load time. In this paper, we use existing benchmarks to evaluate our method-using triggers-and we demonstrate that by forward computing inferences, we not only improve query time, but the improvement appears to cost only more space (not time). However, we go on to show that the true penalties were simply opaque to the benchmark, i.e., the benchmark inadequately captures load-time costs. We have applied our methods to two case studies in biomedicine, using ontologies and data from genetics and neuroscience to illustrate two important applications: first, ontology databases answer ontology-based queries effectively; second, using triggers, ontology databases detect instance-based inconsistencies-something not possible using views. Finally, we demonstrate how to extend our methods to perform data integration across multiple, distributed ontology databases.
Inflammatory processes in brain tissue have been described in human epilepsy of various aetiologies and in experimental models of seizures. This, together with the anticonvulsant properties of anti-inflammatory therapies both in clinical and in experimental settings, highlights the important role of brain inflammation in the aetiopathogenesis of seizures. Preclinical investigations in experimental models using pharmacological and genetic tools have identified a significant contribution of interleukin-1 (IL-1) type 1 receptor/Toll-like receptor (IL-1R/TLR) signalling to seizure activity. This signalling can be activated by ligands associated with infections (pathogen-associated molecular patterns) or by endogenous molecules, such as proinflammatory cytokines (e.g. IL-1beta) or danger signals [damage-associated molecular patterns, e.g. high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1)]. IL-1beta and HMGB1 are synthesized and released by astrocytes and microglia in the rodent brain during seizures. Notably, a rapid release of HMGB1 from neurons appears to be triggered by proconvulsant drugs even before seizure occurrence and is involved in their precipitation of seizures. The activation of IL-1R/TLR signalling mediates rapid post-translational changes in N-methyl-d-aspartate-gated ion channels in neurons. A long-term decrease in seizure threshold has also been observed, possibly mediated by transcriptional activation of genes contributing to molecular and cellular plasticity. This emerging evidence identifies specific targets with potential anticonvulsant effects in drug-resistant forms of epilepsy.
Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) binds to the low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) at the cell surface and disrupts the normal recycling of the LDLR. In this study, we investigated the role of the C-terminal domain for the activity of PCSK9. Experiments in which conserved residues and histidines on the surface of the C-terminal domain were mutated indicated that no specific residues of the C-terminal domain, apart from those responsible for maintaining the overall structure, are required for the activity of PCSK9. Rather, the net charge of the C-terminal domain is important. The more positively charged the C-terminal domain, the higher the activity toward the LDLR. Moreover, replacement of the C-terminal domain with an unrelated protein of comparable size led to significant activity of the chimeric protein. We conclude that the role of the evolutionary, poorly conserved C-terminal domain for the activity of PCSK9 reflects its overall positive charge and size and not the presence of specific residues involved in protein-protein interactions.
To evaluate whether cognitive processes, sensory perception, and vital signs might be influenced by static magnetic fields in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which could pose a risk for health personnel and patients, we conducted a meta-analysis of studies that examined effects of static magnetic fields. Studies covering the time from 1992 to 2007 were selected. Cohen's d effects sizes were used and combined in different categories of neuropsychology (reaction time, visual processing, eye-hand coordination, and working memory). Additionally, effects of static magnetic fields on sensory perception and vital signs were analyzed. In the category &quot;neuropsychology,&quot; only effects on the visual system were homogeneous, showing a statistically significant impairment as a result of exposure to static magnetic fields (d = -0.415). Vital signs were not affected and effects on sensory perceptions included an increase of dizziness and vertigo, primarily caused by movement during static magnetic field gradient exposures. The number of studies dealing with this topic is very small and the experimental set-up of some of the analyzed studies makes it difficult to accurately determine the effects of static magnetic fields by themselves, excluding nonspecific factors. The implications of these results for MRI lead to suggestions for improvement in research designs.
Nowadays for deaf children there are many new opportunities that provide enhanced ways of hearing stimulation.These concerns may result as much more significant as the family is engaged in the stimulation program. An NHS program in Campania was launched in 2005. According to these concerns, the family plays a central role both in the diagnostic and the therapeutic intervention of the impaired children. As paradigm of the important role of the family in the rehab project is a comparison between two kids in charge by our team. The outcomes are better in children who received stimulation by the family.
Neonatal encephalopathy is a significant cause of infant mortality and morbidity with risk of neurological sequelae in the survivors of neonates admitted to Neonatal (N) Intensive Care Unit (ICU). The EEG and Evoked Potentials (EPs) are very informative in the ICU. In particular, it is known that the SomatoSensory (SS) EPs are the best single indicator of early prognosis in adults and children patients with traumatic and/or hypoxic-ischemic coma compared to the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) and CTscan. Most paediatric studies excluded newborns in an attempt to eliminate the age effects, because of the structural and functional immaturity of somatosensory system. In fact, newborns differ from adults and paediatric patients for many aspects: hypoxic-ischemic aetiology, SSEPs normative data, grading and predictive values, timing and techniques recording, clinical scales of evaluation. Recently a diagnostic and predictive role of early SSEPs has been established in perinatal hypoxic-ischemic. We reported a literature review of early diagnostic/prognostic role of SSEPs and our preliminary neurophysiological data of prospective study in mild or severe perinatal hypoxic-ischemic insult.
Matching medical image data is a key factor for appropriate computer aided diagnosis. For the past several decades, many image processing technologies have been developed and discussed. However, most of the methods are only of theoretical interest because the time complexity of the matching methods is too high for realistic handling of huge amounts of existing medical images. This paper presents a parallel processing model for matching huge amounts of MR images. A feature vector of an MR image is defined by professionals specifically in the area of neuroscience. Then a matching algorithm is developed based on matching the feature vectors. The algorithm is shown to be suitable for parallel process, and provides acceptable results. The experiments show that the overhead of synchronizing the parallel process is less significant than the improvement of the overall efficiency.
Confocal microscopy is based on measurement of intensity of fluorescence originating from a limited volume in the imaged specimen. The intensity is quantized in absolute (albeit arbitrary) units, producing a digital 3D micrograph. Thus, one may obtain quantitative information on local concentration of biomolecules in cells and tissues. This approach requires estimation of precision of light measurement (limited by noise) and conversion of the digital intensity units to absolute values of concentration (or number) of molecules of interest. To meet the first prerequisite we propose a technique for measurement of signal and noise. This method involves registration of a time series of images of any stationary microscope specimen. The analysis is a multistep process, which separates monotonic, periodic and random components of pixel intensity change. This approach permits simultaneous determination of dark and photonic components of noise. Consequently, confidence interval (total noise estimation) is obtained for every level of signal. The algorithm can also be applied to detect mechanical instability of a microscope and instability of illumination source. The presented technique is combined with a simple intensity standard to provide conversion of relative intensity units into their absolute counterparts (the second prerequisite of quantitative imaging). Moreover, photobleaching kinetics of the standard is used to estimate the power of light delivered to a microscope specimen. Thus, the proposed method provides in one step an absolute intensity calibration, estimate of precision and sensitivity of a microscope system.

To examine the relationship between facial affect recognition (FAR) and subjective perceptual disturbances (SPDs), we assessed SPDs in 82 patients with DSM-IV schizophrenia (44 with first-episode psychosis [FEP] and 38 with multiple episodes [ME]) using two subscales of the Frankfurt Complaint Questionnaire (FCQ), WAS (simple perception) and WAK (complex perception). Emotional judgment ability was assessed using Ekman and Friesen's FAR task. Impaired recognition of emotion correlated with scores on the WAS but not on the WAK. The association was significant in the entire group and in the ME group. FAR was more impaired in the ME than in the FEP group. Our findings suggest that there is a relationship between SPDs and FAR impairment in schizophrenia, particularly in multiple-episode patients.
To date, there is no effective therapy for spinal cord injury, and many patients could benefit dramatically from at least partial restoration of arm and hand function. Despite a substantial body of research investigating intraspinal microstimulation (ISMS) in frogs, rodents and cats, little is known about upper-limb responses to cervical stimulation in the primate. Here, we show for the first time that long trains of ISMS delivered to the macaque spinal cord can evoke functional arm and hand movements. Complex movements involving coordinated activation of multiple muscles could be elicited from a single electrode, while just two electrodes were required for independent control of reaching and grasping. We found that the motor responses to ISMS were described by a dual exponential model that depended only on stimulation history. We demonstrate that this model can be inverted to generate stimulus trains capable of eliciting arbitrary, graded motor responses, and could be used to restore volitional movements in a closed-loop brain-machine interface.
In Parkinson's disease (PD), the effects of deep brain stimulation of the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPTg-DBS) on gait has been object of international debate. Some evidence demonstrated that, in the late swing-early stance phase of gait cycle, a reduced surface electromyographic activation (sEMG) of tibialis anterior (TA) is linked to the striatal dopamine deficiency in PD patients. In the present study we report preliminary results on the effect of PPTg-DBS on electromyographic patterns during gait in individual PD patients. To evaluate the sEMG amplitude of TA, the root mean square (RMS) of the TA burst in late swing-early stance phase (RMS-A) was normalized as a percent of the RMS of the TA burst in late stance-early swing (RMS-B). We studied three male patients in the following conditions: on PPTg-DBS/on L: -dopa, on PPTg-DBS/off L: -dopa, off PPTg-DBS/on L: -dopa, off PPTg-DBS/off L: -dopa. For each assessment the UPDRS III was filled in. We observed no difference between on PPTg-DBS/off L: -dopa and off PPTg-DBS/off L: -dopa in UPDRS III scores. In off PPTg-DBS/off L: -dopa, patient A (right implant) showed absence of the right and left RMSA, respectively, in 80% and 83% of gait cycles. Patient B (right implant) showed absence of the right RMS-A in 86% of cycles. RMS-A of the patient C (left implant) was bilaterally normal. In on PPTg- DBS/off L: -dopa, no patient showed reduced RMS-A. Although the very low number of subjects we evaluated, our observations suggest that PPTg plays a role in modulating TA activation pattern during the steady state of gait.

The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPTg) is constituted by a heterogeneous cluster of neurons located in caudal mesencephalic tegmentum which projects to the thalamus to trigger thalamocortical rhythms and the brainstem to modulate muscle tone and locomotion. It has been investigated as potential deep brain stimulation (DBS) target for treating Parkinson's disease (PD) symptoms. Neurophysiological studies conducted in humans using DBS electrodes for exploring functional properties of PPTg in vivo, reviewed in this paper, demonstrated that the functional connections between PPTg and cortex, basal ganglia, brainstem network involved in sleep/wake control, and spinal cord can be explored in vivo and provided useful insights about the physiology of this nucleus and pathophysiology of PD.
One element of the reticular activating system (RAS) is the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), which projects to the thalamus to trigger thalamocortical rhythms and the brainstem to modulate muscle tone and locomotion. The PPN is a posterior midbrain site known to induce locomotion in decerebrate animals when activated at 40-60Hz, and has become a target for DBS in disorders involving gait deficits. We developed a research program using brainstem slices containing the PPN to study the cellular and molecular organization of this region. We showed that PPN neurons preferentially fire at gamma band frequency (30-60Hz) when maximally activated, accounting for the effects of electrical stimulation. In addition, we developed the P13 midlatency auditory evoked potential, which is generated by PPN outputs, in freely moving rats. This allows the study of PPN cellular and molecular mechanisms in the whole animal. We also study the P50 midlatency auditory evoked potential, which is the human equivalent of the rodent P13 potential, allowing us to study PPN-related processes detected in vitro, confirmed in the whole animal, and tested in humans. Previous findings on the P50 potential in PD suggest that PPN output in this disorder is overactive. This translational research program led to the discovery of a novel mechanism of sleep-wake control based on electrical coupling, pointing the way to a number of new clinical applications in the development of novel stimulants (e.g., modafinil) and anesthetics. In addition, it provides methods for monitoring therapeutic efficacy of DBS in humans and animal models.
Huntington's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG trinucleotide repeat expansion in the huntingtin gene. This expansion produces a mutant form of the huntingtin protein, which contains an elongated polyglutamine stretch at its amino-terminus. Mutant huntingtin may adopt an aberrant, aggregation-prone conformation predicted to start the pathogenic process leading to neuronal dysfunction and cell death. Thus, strategies reducing mutant huntingtin may lead to disease-modifying therapies. We investigated the mechanisms and molecular targets regulating huntingtin degradation in a neuronal cell model. We first found that mutant and wild-type huntingtin displayed strikingly diverse turn-over kinetics and sensitivity to proteasome inhibition. Then, we show that autophagy induction led to accelerate degradation of mutant huntingtin aggregates. In our neuronal cell model, allosteric inhibition of mTORC1 by everolimus, a rapamycin analogue, did not induce autophagy or affect aggregate degradation. In contrast, this occurred in the presence of catalytic inhibitors of both mTOR complexes mTORC1 and mTORC2. Our data demonstrate the existence of an mTOR-dependent but everolimus-independent mechanism regulating autophagy and huntingtin-aggregate degradation in cells of neuronal origin.
Moderate reduction in the protein content of the mother's diet (hidden malnutrition) does not alter body and brain weights of rat pups at birth, but leads to dysfunction of neocortical noradrenaline systems together with impaired long-term potentiation and visuo-spatial memory performance. As -adrenoceptors and downstream protein kinase signaling are critically involved in synaptic long-term potentiation and memory formation, we evaluated the -adrenoceptor density and the expression of cyclic-AMP dependent protein kinase, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase and protein kinase Fyn, in the frontal cortex of prenatally malnourished adult rats. In addition, we also studied if -adrenoceptor activation with the selective  agonist dobutamine could improve deficits of prefrontal cortex long-term potentiation presenting these animals. Prenatally malnourished rats exhibited half of -adrenoceptor binding, together with a 51% and 65% reduction of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase  and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase  expression, respectively, as compared with eutrophic animals. Administration of the selective  agonist dobutamine prior to tetanization completely rescued the ability of the prefrontal cortex to develop and maintain long-term potentiation in the malnourished rats. Results suggest that under-expression of neocortical -adrenoceptors and protein kinase signaling in hidden malnourished rats functionally affects the synaptic networks subserving prefrontal cortex long-term potentiation. -adrenoceptor activation was sufficient to fully recover neocortical plasticity in the PKA- and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II-deficient undernourished rats, possibly by producing extra amounts of cAMP and/or by recruiting alternative signaling cascades.
-Synuclein causes Parkinson's disease if mutated or aberrantly produced in neurons. -Synuclein-lipid interactions are important for the normal function of the protein, but can also contribute to pathogenesis. We previously reported that deletion of the first 10 N-terminal amino acids dramatically reduced lipid binding in vitro, as well as membrane binding and toxicity in yeast. Here we extend this study to human neuroblastoma SHSY-5Y cells, and find that in these cells the first 10 N-terminal residues do not affect -synuclein membrane binding, self-association and cell viability, contrary to yeast. Differences in lipid composition, membrane fluidity and cytosolic factors between yeast and neuronal cells may account for the distinct binding behavior of the truncated variant in these two systems. Retinoic acid promotes differentiation and -synuclein oligomer formation in neuroblastoma cells, while addition of a proteasomal inhibitor induces neurite outgrowth and toxicity to certain wild-type and truncated -synuclein clones. Yeast recapitulate several features of -synuclein (patho)biology, but its simplicity sets limitations; verification of yeast results in more relevant model systems is, therefore, essential.
We are building an open-access database of regional human brain expression designed to allow the genome-wide assessment of genetic variability on expression. Array and RNA sequencing technologies make assessment of genome-wide expression possible. Human brain tissue is a challenging source for this work because it can only be obtained several and variable hours post-mortem and after varying agonal states. These variables alter RNA integrity in a complex manner. In this report, we assess the effect of post-mortem delay, agonal state and age on gene expression, and the utility of pH and RNA integrity number as predictors of gene expression as measured on 1266 Affymetrix Exon Arrays. We assessed the accuracy of the array data using QuantiGene, as an independent non-PCR-based method. These quality control parameters will allow database users to assess data accuracy. We report that within the parameters of this study post-mortem delay, agonal state and age have little impact on array quality, array data are robust to variable RNA integrity, and brain pH has only a small effect on array performance. QuantiGene gave very similar expression profiles as array data. This study is the first step in our initiative to make human, regional brain expression freely available.
Children exposed to methamphetamine during brain development as a result of maternal drug use have long-term hippocampus-dependent cognitive impairments, but the mechanisms underlying these impairments are not understood. The acetylcholine system plays an important role in cognitive function and potential methamphetamine-induced acetylcholine alterations may be related to methamphetamine-induced cognitive impairments. In this study, we investigated the potential long-term effects of methamphetamine exposure during hippocampal development on the acetylcholine system in adolescence mice on postnatal day 30 and in adult mice on postnatal day 90. Methamphetamine exposure increased the density of acetylcholine neurons in regions of the basal forebrain and the area occupied by acetylcholine axons in the hippocampus in adolescent female mice. In contrast, methamphetamine exposure did not affect the density of GABA cells or total neurons in the basal forebrain. Methamphetamine exposure also increased the number of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in the hippocampus of adolescent male and female mice. Our results demonstrate for the first time that methamphetamine exposure during hippocampal development affects the acetylcholine system in adolescent mice and that these changes are more profound in females than males.
Cardiac surgery involving extra-corporeal circulation can lead to cognitive dysfunction. As such surgery is associated with signs of inflammation and pro-inflammatory mediators activate tryptophan oxidation to neuroactive kynurenines which modulate NMDA receptor function and oxidative stress, we have measured blood concentrations of kynurenines and inflammatory markers in 28 patients undergoing coronary arterial graft surgery and, for comparison, 28 patients undergoing non-bypass thoracic surgery. A battery of cognitive tests was completed before and after the operations. The results show increased levels of tryptophan with decreased levels of kynurenine, anthranilic acid and 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid associated with bypass, and a later increase in kynurenic acid. Levels of neopterin and lipid peroxidation products rose after surgery in non-bypass patients whereas tumour necrosis factor- and S100B levels increased after bypass. Changes of neopterin levels were greater after non-bypass surgery. Cognitive testing showed that the levels of tryptophan, kynurenine, kynurenic acid and the kynurenine/tryptophan ratio, correlated with aspects of post-surgery cognitive function, and were significant predictors of cognitive performance in tasks sensitive to frontal executive function and memory. Thus, anaesthesia and major surgery are associated with inflammatory changes and alterations in tryptophan oxidative metabolism which predict, and may play a role in, post-surgical cognitive function.
Inhibition of -secretase (BACE1) is a key therapeutic approach in Alzheimer's disease (AD), as BACE1 initiates amyloid- (A) cleavage from the -amyloid precursor protein (APP). As A reductions in mice lacking one BACE1 allele diverged considerably between studies we investigated the effect of BACE1 knock-out in more detail. With both BACE1 alleles the Swedish mutation (APP23 mice) increased APP processing and shifted it towards the -secretase pathway as compared with non-mutated APP expressed at a similar level (APP51/16 mice). This effect was much smaller then observed in cell culture. An about 50% decrease in BACE1 enzyme activity resulted in a sub-proportional A reduction with the Swedish mutation (-20%) and even less for non-mutated APP (-16%). In wild-type mice, the A reduction may be even further diminished. Other metabolites of the -secretase pathway decreased accordingly while the alternative -secretase pathway increased. Complete BACE1 deletion strongly enhanced these changes. The remaining A signal also described by others can be explained by assay cross-reactivity with other APP metabolites supporting BACE1 as the major -secretase. Our data indicate that BACE1 is in excess over APP at the cleavage site(s). Alterations in APP expression or substrate properties, therefore, quantitatively change its cleavage and A generation.
Cone-rod homeobox (Crx) encodes Crx, a transcription factor expressed selectively in retinal photoreceptors and pinealocytes, the major cell type of the pineal gland. In this study, the influence of Crx on the mammalian pineal gland was studied by light and electron microscopy and by use of microarray and qRTPCR technology, thereby extending previous studies on selected genes (Furukawa et al. 1999). Deletion of Crx was not found to alter pineal morphology, but was found to broadly modulate the mouse pineal transcriptome, characterized by a&gt;2-fold down-regulation of 543 genes and a&gt;2-fold up-regulation of 745 genes (p&lt;0.05). Of these, one of the most highly up-regulated (18-fold) was Hoxc4, a member of the Hox gene family, members of which are known to control gene expression cascades. During a 24-h period, a set of 51 genes exhibited differential day/night expression in pineal glands of wild-type animals; only eight of these were also day/night expressed in the Crx/ pineal gland. However, in the Crx/ pineal gland 41 genes exhibited differential night/day expression that was not seen in wild-type animals. These findings indicate that Crx broadly modulates the pineal transcriptome and also influences differential night/day gene expression in this tissue. Some effects of Crx deletion on the pineal transcriptome might be mediated by Hoxc4 up-regulation.
External and internal stimuli that threaten homeostasis trigger coordinated stress responses through activation of specialised neuroendocrine circuits. In mammals, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis mediates responses to stressors such as restraint, ultimately enhancing adrenocortical hormone secretion. Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) has been implicated in central control of the HPA axis, and we have recently shown PACAP-dependent expression of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and secretion of corticosterone in response to restraint. We now provide a more detailed analysis of PACAP-dependent HPA axis stimulation in the mouse, indicating that the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) is the primary site of action. We demonstrate by quantitative polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridisation that up-regulation of mRNAs encoding CRH and inducible transcription factors, from the Nr4a family (Nur77, Nor1) in the PVN is PACAP-dependent. Furthermore, CRH hnRNA is rapidly up-regulated in cultured hypothalamic neurones after treatment with PACAP. Induction of Nr4a factors (Nur77, Nurr1) in response to restraint is attenuated in the pituitary gland of PACAP-deficient mice. In the adrenal glands, restraint elicits a marked PACAP-dependent increase in adrenocortical mRNA levels of all three Nr4a transcription factors, steroidogenic factor 1 (Nr5a1), steroidogenic acute regulatory protein and steroid 21-hydroxylase. Taken together, our results show that PACAP controls HPA responses to restraint primarily at the level of the hypothalamus by up-regulating CRH, possibly involving transcription factors such as Nur77 and Nor1. Subsequent adrenocortical steroidogenesis also appears to involve PACAP-dependent stimulus-transcription coupling, suggesting a mechanism by which PACAP exerts control over HPA axis function during stress.

Recent findings demonstrate that epigenetic modifications are required for the sexual differentiation of the brain. For example, neonatal administration of the histone deacetylase inhibitor, valproic acid, blocks masculinisation of cell number in the principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). In the present study, we examined the effects of valproic acid on neurochemistry and behaviour, focusing on traits that are sexually dimorphic and linked to the BNST. Newborn mice were treated with saline or valproic acid and the effect on vasopressin immunoreactivity and olfactory preference behaviour was examined in adulthood. As expected, males had more vasopressin immunoreactive fibres than females in the lateral septum and medial dorsal thalamus, which are two projection sites of BNST vasopressin neurones. Neonatal valproic acid increased vasopressin fibre density specifically in females in the lateral septum, thereby reducing the sex difference, and increased vasopressin fibres in both sexes in the medial dorsal thalamus. The effects were not specific to BNST vasopressin projections, however, because valproic acid also significantly increased vasopressin immunoreactivity in the anterior hypothalamic area in both sexes. Subtle sex-specific effects of neonatal valproic acid treatment were observed on olfactory behaviour. As predicted, males showed a preference for investigating female-soiled bedding, whereas females showed a preference for male-soiled bedding. Valproic acid did not significantly alter olfactory preference, per se, although it increased the number of visits females made to female-soiled bedding and the overall time females spent investigating soiled versus clean bedding. Taken together, these results suggest that a transient disruption of histone deacetylation at birth does not have generalised effects on sexual differentiation, although it does produce lasting effects on brain neurochemistry and behaviour.

This study aimed at evaluating the performance of a battery of morphological and functional tests for the assessment of small nerve fiber loss in asymptomatic diabetic neuropathy (DNP). Patients diagnosed for 10years with type 1 (n=10) or type 2 (n=13) diabetes mellitus (DM) without conventional symptoms or signs of DNP were recruited and compared with healthy controls (n=18) and patients with overt DNP (n=5). Intraepidermal nerve fiber density (IENFd) was measured with PGP9.5 immunostaining on punch skin biopsies performed at the distal leg. Functional tests consisted of quantitative sensory testing (QST) for light-touch, cool, warm and heat pain detection thresholds and brain-evoked potentials with electrical (SEPs) and CO(2) laser stimulation [laser-evoked potentials (LEPs)] of hand dorsum and distal leg using small (0.8mm(2)) and large (20mm(2)) beam sizes. Results confirmed a state of asymptomatic DNP in DM, but only at the distal leg. Defining a critical small fiber loss as a reduction of IENFd -2 z scores of healthy controls, this state prevailed in type 2 (30%) over type 1 DM (10%) patients despite similar disease duration and current glycemic control. LEPs with the small laser beam performed best in terms of sensitivity (91%), specificity (83%) and area-under-the ROC curve (0.924). Although this performance was not statically different from that of warm and cold detection threshold, LEPs offer an advantage over QST given that they bypass the subjective report and are therefore unbiased by perceptual factors.
Epilepsy has a significant impact on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of patients and personal coping style is an important determinant. Less is known about home caregivers. This study investigates HRQOL and coping style of both patients and caregivers and their interaction. Epilepsy patients attending the outpatient clinic of the University Medical Centre in Utrecht and their caregivers were sent EQ5D and RAND-36 questionnaires. The Utrecht Coping List was used to chart personal coping styles. HRQOL scores of patients and caregivers were compared to the general Dutch population. The association between patient and caregiver HRQOL scores was calculated. A stepwise backward multivariate linear regression analysis was used to explain variances in caregiver HRQOL. Eighty-six couples (49%) returned all questionnaires. Caregiver HRQOL scores were comparable to the general Dutch population (EQ5D: 0.88-0.88; p=0.90, RAND-36 MCS: -2 points; p=0.16), while patients HRQOL scores were lower (EQ5D: 0.79; p&lt;0.01, RAND-36 MCS -10 points; p&lt;0.01). However, on several specific domains, associations between patient and caregiver HRQOL scores within couples were found. Passive coping style explained 50% of variation in HRQOL scores of caregivers. As a group, caregivers of epilepsy patients have normal HRQOL, but there are significant associations between patient and caregiver HRQOL scores. Improving caregiver HRQOL through interventions on coping style might benefit patients as well. Recognizing personal coping styles of both patient and caregiver should be part of a patient-oriented approach in treatment.



In reflex epilepsies, alteration of  oscillations may mediate transition between interictal and ictal states. Here, we explored a patient having seizures triggered by syrup intake. From intracranial electroencephalography combined with functional MRI, the overlap of the gustatory cortex and of the preictal and ictal onset zones, as defined by early gamma changes, motivated the successful resective surgery of the middle short gyrus of the right insula. This case provides a rare demonstration from human gamma activity that the route to seizure may be supported by the interplay between physiological and epileptogenic networks.
Previous studies have demonstrated that cognitive impairment is already present in patients suffering from a clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) suggestive of multiple sclerosis (MS). However, little is known about the course of cognitive impairment after the occurrence of a CIS. In order to characterise the early evolution of cognitive impairment, the authors assessed during a 5-year follow-up period a group of 24 CIS patients with high risk of developing MS. Longitudinal neuropsychological assessment was performed at two time points (baseline and year 5) in patients and controls (baseline and year 1). At year 5, 54% of patients showed cognitive impairment against 29% at baseline. Multiple regression models showed that patients with a higher T(2) lesion load at baseline had a higher cognitive impairment at year 5. This longitudinal study performed in CIS patients showed that the frequency of cognitive impairment increases dramatically during the first 5 years following a CIS and that the cognitive status at year 5 was predictable by conventional MRI parameters recorded at baseline.
We have previously shown that natural (15-deoxy--prostaglandin J2) and synthetic (pioglitazone) agonists of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  (PPAR-) strengthen the intrinsic cellular mechanisms protecting oligodendrocyte (OL) progenitors (OPs) from oxidative insults and promote their differentiation. Here, we demonstrate that repeated administrations of PPAR- agonists to OP cultures accelerate their differentiation to OLs, as indicated by increased numbers of O4- and O1-positive cells that show increased myelin basic protein expression, elaborated cholesterol-enrichedmembranes and have increased peroxisomes. Moreover, PPAR- agonist-treated OLs show increased activity of the mitochondrial respiratory chain Complex IV and an increased ability to respond to environmental signals, such as adenosine diphosphate (ADP), with oscillatory Ca waves; the latter closely correlated with the presence of mitochondria and were inhibited by the mitochondrial respiratory chain Complex I inhibitor rotenone. Because Ca oscillations and mitochondrial respiratory chain activity play crucial roles in OL differentiation, these findings suggest that PPAR- agonists could protect OLs and promote myelination through several mechanisms, including those involving mitochondrial functions. Our studies support the therapeutic potential of PPAR- agonists in brain diseases in which mitochondrial alteration, oxidative stress, and demyelination occur and point to the need for a better understanding of the role of PPAR- and its agonists in OL biology.
Abnormal oscillatory synchrony is increasingly acknowledged as a pathophysiological hallmark of Parkinson's disease, but what promotes such activity remains unclear. We used novel, nonlinear time series analyses and information theory to capture the effects of dopamine depletion on directed information flow within and between the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and external globus pallidus (GPe). We compared neuronal activity recorded simultaneously from these nuclei in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned Parkinsonian rats with that in dopamine-intact control rats. After lesioning, both nuclei displayed pronounced augmentations of beta-frequency (20 Hz) oscillations and, critically, information transfer between STN and GPe neurons was increased. Furthermore, temporal profiles of the directed information transfer agreed with the neurochemistry of these nuclei, being &quot;excitatory&quot; from STN to GPe and &quot;inhibitory&quot; from GPe to STN. Separation of the GPe population in lesioned animals into &quot;type-inactive&quot; (GP-TI) and &quot;type-active&quot; (GP-TA) neurons, according to definitive firing preferences, revealed distinct temporal profiles of interaction with STN and each other. The profile of GP-TI neurons suggested their output is of greater causal significance than that of GP-TA neurons for the reduced activity that periodically punctuates the spiking of STN neurons during beta oscillations. Moreover, STN was identified as a key candidate driver for recruiting ensembles of GP-TI neurons but not GP-TA neurons. Short-latency interactions between GP-TI and GP-TA neurons suggested mutual inhibition, which could rhythmically dampen activity and promote anti-phase firing across the two subpopulations. Results thus indicate that information flow around the STN-GPe circuit is exaggerated in Parkinsonism and further define the temporal interactions underpinning this.
We have studied eye-head coordination in nonhuman primates with acoustic targets after finding that they are unable to make accurate saccadic eye movements to targets of this type with the head restrained. Three male macaque monkeys with experience in localizing sounds for rewards by pointing their gaze to the perceived location of sources served as subjects. Visual targets were used as controls. The experimental sessions were configured to minimize the chances that the subject would be able to predict the modality of the target as well as its location and time of presentation. The data show that eye and head movements are coordinated differently to generate gaze shifts to acoustic targets. Chiefly, the head invariably started to move before the eye and contributed more to the gaze shift. These differences were more striking for gaze shifts of &lt;20-25 in amplitude, to which the head contributes very little or not at all when the target is visual. Thus acoustic and visual targets trigger gaze shifts with different eye-head coordination. This, coupled to the fact that anatomic evidence involves the superior colliculus as the link between auditory spatial processing and the motor system, suggests that separate signals are likely generated within this midbrain structure.
The objectives of the present study were to test the hypothesis that the costal diaphragm contracts during ipsilateral rotation of the trunk and that such trunk rotation increases the motor output of the muscle during inspiration. Monopolar electrodes were inserted in the right costal hemidiaphragm in six subjects, and electromyographic (EMG) recordings were made during isometric rotation efforts of the trunk to the right (&quot;ipsilateral rotation&quot;) and to the left (&quot;contralateral rotation&quot;). EMG activity was simultaneously recorded from the parasternal intercostal muscles on the right side. The parasternal intercostals were consistently active during ipsilateral rotation but silent during contralateral rotation. In contrast, the diaphragm was silent in the majority of rotations in either direction, and whenever diaphragm activity was recorded, it involved very few motor units. In addition, whereas parasternal inspiratory activity substantially increased during ipsilateral rotation and decreased during contralateral rotation, inspiratory activity in the diaphragm was essentially unaltered and the discharge frequency of single motor units in the muscle remained at 13-14 Hz in the different postures. It is concluded that 1) the diaphragm makes no significant contribution to trunk rotation and 2) even though the diaphragm and parasternal intercostals contract in a coordinated manner during resting breathing, the inspiratory output of the two muscles is affected differently by voluntary drive during trunk rotation.
Approximately 20% of the adult population suffers from migraine. This debilitating pain disorder is three times more prevalent in women than in men. To begin to evaluate the underlying mechanisms that may contribute to this sex difference, we tested the hypothesis that there is a sex difference in the inflammatory mediator (IM)-induced sensitization of dural afferents. Acutely dissociated retrogradely labeled dural afferents from adult Sprague-Dawley rats were examined with whole cell patch-clamp recordings. Baseline passive and active electrophysiological properties of dural afferents from both sexes were comparable. However, while IM-induced increases in the excitability of dural afferents from male and female rats were also comparable, the proportion of dural afferents from female rats sensitized by IM (~100%) was significantly greater than that of dural afferents from male rats (~50%). This appeared to be due to differences downstream of IM receptors, as tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium current was increased by IM in a majority of male dural afferents (13/14). These data indicate that there are both quantitative and qualitative differences in the IM-induced sensitization of dural afferents that may contribute to the sex difference in the manifestation of migraine.
In songbirds, the basal ganglia outflow nucleus LMAN is a cortical analog that is required for several forms of song plasticity and learning. Moreover, in adults, inactivating LMAN can reverse the initial expression of learning driven via aversive reinforcement. In the present study, we investigated how LMAN contributes to both reinforcement-driven learning and a self-driven recovery process in adult Bengalese finches. We first drove changes in the fundamental frequency of targeted song syllables and compared the effects of inactivating LMAN with the effects of interfering with N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent transmission from LMAN to one of its principal targets, the song premotor nucleus RA. Inactivating LMAN and blocking NMDA receptors in RA caused indistinguishable reversions in the expression of learning, indicating that LMAN contributes to learning through NMDA receptor-mediated glutamatergic transmission to RA. We next assessed how LMAN's role evolves over time by maintaining learned changes to song while periodically inactivating LMAN. The expression of learning consolidated to become LMAN independent over multiple days, indicating that this form of consolidation is not completed over one night, as previously suggested, and instead may occur gradually during singing. Subsequent cessation of reinforcement was followed by a gradual self-driven recovery of original song structure, indicating that consolidation does not correspond with the lasting retention of changes to song. Finally, for self-driven recovery, as for reinforcement-driven learning, LMAN was required for the expression of initial, but not later, changes to song. Our results indicate that NMDA receptor-dependent transmission from LMAN to RA plays an essential role in the initial expression of two distinct forms of vocal learning and that this role gradually wanes over a multiday process of consolidation. The results support an emerging view that cortical-basal ganglia circuits can direct the initial expression of learning via top-down influences on primary motor circuitry.
Compelling evidence suggests that both schizophrenia and obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) are related to deviant neurodevelopment. Neurological soft signs (NSS) have been proposed to be a marker of abnormal brain development in schizophrenia. The purpose of this study is to examine whether NSS are also a marker in patients with OCD, in particular, in early-onset OCD. The authors included 162 subjects and compared patients with OCD, patients with schizophrenia (SCZ), and healthy control subjects. They were all examined for NSS (Krebs' Scale), extrapyramidal symptoms (Simpson-Angus Scale), and were rated on the Abnormal Involuntary Movements Scale (AIMS). The authors found no differences between NSS total scores and subscores in OCD versus controls, whereas total NSS, motor coordination, and motor integration were significantly lower in OCD than in SCZ. OCD patients with early-onset (before age 13) did not differ from those with later-onset OCD. These results support the idea that NSS, as determined by current scales, is relatively specific to schizophrenia, although they do not preclude the existence of a neurological dysfunction in OCD. Further studies are required to determine the type of neurological signs that could be useful trait-markers in the phenotypic characterization of subtype OCD.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 7.0 Tesla (7T) can show many details of anatomical structures with unprecedented resolution and contrast. In this report, we describe for the first time the unexpected wide variation in pineal gland structure, as visualized by MR images obtained with 7T in a group of healthy young volunteers. A total of 34 volunteers (22 men and 12 women) were enrolled in the study. Their 7T MR images revealed such wide variations in pineal gland shape that it led us to attempt to classify the patterns seen in these pineal glands. Indeed, they were successfully correlated with a previous human cadaver study of venous structures by Tamaki et al., who classified the venous structures of the pineal gland into three categories. This is the first human in vivo pineal vein imaging study using 7T MRI. Pineal venous imaging may permit the early diagnosis of a pineal tumor.
Acute stroke can result in neurological impairment or death. The Colorado Stroke Alliance and the Colorado Stroke Registry have made progress toward improving stroke care through their statewide quality improvement efforts. This report is a follow-up to a previous publication in the Journal of Neuroscience Nursing. The previous report focused on the organization and structure of the Colorado Stroke Alliance. The present report describes some of the successes and insights that have been achieved, including adherence to stroke quality indicators, gender disparities, process times for intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator/alteplase, the impact of emergency medical services, and the role that nurses continue to have as agents of change in improving hospital care.
Neuroscience intensive care unit nurses routinely perform oral care on patients with intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring. When the ICP is elevated or rises in response to oral care, this intervention may be withheld despite the lack of evidence linking the two. To appraise the best evidence for providing oral care to patients with ICP monitoring, articles published in English from 1978 to 2009 and indexed in CINHAL, PubMed/MEDLINE, Cochran Library, and BioSys were searched using the key terms ICP monitoring, intracranial hypertension, oral care, mouth care, hygiene, nursing interventions, nursing care, intensive care, and critical care. Reference lists of retrieved articles were reviewed for articles missed during the initial search. The search yielded 65 articles: 16 experimental or quasi-experimental studies, 24 descriptive studies, and 25 review articles. Of these, only four specifically tested or described the effect of oral care on ICP. There is a need for more knowledge about the effect of oral care on ICP so that evidence-based oral care practices in this patient population can be defined.
Neurogenesis within the adult brain is restricted to selected areas, one of which is the dentate gyrus (DG). Several growth factors have been reported to affect neurogenesis in the adult DG. However, a role of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) in adult hippocampal neurogenesis has not been firmly established. We have analyzed neurogenesis in the DG using in vivo and in vitro approaches. FGF-2(-/-) mice revealed no alterations in the number of proliferating cells but a significant decrease in the numbers of newly generated neurons. Moreover, FGF-2 added to hippocampal slice cultures from FGF-2(-/-) mice was unable to rescue the phenotype. Although an increase in death of neurogenic cells in the FGF-2-deficient DG could not be specifically demonstrated, there was a massive increase in global cell death in FGF-2(-/-) hippocampal slice cultures compared with slices from wild-type mice. Cell death could not be prevented by addition of FGF-2. Neutralization of endogenous FGF-2 in hippocampal slices did not interfere with neurogenesis in a short-term paradigm. Together, our data suggest that FGF-2 is essentially required for maturation of new neurons in adult hippocampal neurogenesis but is likely to operate synergistically in combination with other mechanisms/growth factors.
Any mutations in the human neural cell adhesion molecule L1 (hL1CAM) gene might cause various types of serious neurological syndromes in humans, characterized by increased mortality, mental retardation, and various malformations of the nervous system. Such missense mutations often cause severe abnormalities or even fatalities, and the reason for this may be a disruption of the adhesive function of L1CAM resulting from a misdirection of the degradative pathway. Transfection studies using neuroblastoma N2a cells demonstrated that hL1CAM carrying the missense mutations in the fibronectin-like type III (FnIII) domains most likely is located within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), but it is less well expressed on the cell surface. One mutant, L935P, in the fourth FnIII domain, was chosen from six mutants (K655 and G698 at Fn1, L935P and P941 at Fn4, W1036 and Y1070 at Fn5) in the FnIII domains to study in detail the functions of hL1CAM(200 kDa) , such as the intracellular traffic and degradation, because only a single band at 200 kDa was detected in the hL1CAM(L935P) -transfected cells. hL1CAM(200 kDa) is expressed predominantly in the ER but not on the cell surface. In addition, this missense mutated hL1CAM(200 kDa) is polyubiquitylated at some sites in the extracellular domain and thus becomes degraded by proteasomes via the ER-associated degradation pathway. These observations demonstrate that the missense mutations of hL1CAM in the FnIII domain may cause the resultant pathogenesis because of a loss of expression on the cell surface resulting from misrouting to the degradative pathway.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress activates pancreatic ER kinase (PERK), which coordinates an adaptive program known as the integrated stress response (ISR) by phosphorylating translation initiation factor 2 (eIF2). There is evidence that the ISR is involved in tumor development. Recent studies also show that the ISR stimulates the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), a master regulator of angiogenesis. Our previous studies have demonstrated that enforced expression of interferon- (IFN) in the central nervous system during development induces sonic hedgehog expression and leads to cerebellar dysplasia or medulloblastoma. Here we report that PERK was activated in cerebellar dysplasia and medulloblastoma in IFN-expressing mice. We found that inactivation of the growth arrest and DNA damage 34 (GADD34) gene, encoding the stress-inducible regulatory subunit of a phosphatase complex that dephosphorylates eIF2, enhanced ISR signaling and facilitated medulloblastoma formation in IFN-expressing mice. Moreover, we found that the induction of VEGF-A and enhanced angiogenesis were associated with medulloblastoma formation in IFN-expressing mice on the GADD34 mutation background. Thus, our data provide genetic evidence that the ISR facilitates medulloblastoma development.
Neurotrophins play essential roles in the development, differentiation, and survival of neuronal and nonneuronal cells. Alterations in neurotrophin expression have been implicated in a variety of neurodegenerative disorders. Dysregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been implicated in deficits of long-term potentiation and cognition and may contribute to the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we used complementary pharmacological and molecular approaches to evaluate the role of ERK1/2 and ERK5, two members of the MAPK pathway associated with neuroprotection, in regulating BDNF expression in C6 glial cells and primary astrocytes. Our data revealed that U0126, an inhibitor of both ERK5 and ERK1/2, increased the levels of BDNF mRNA, whereas the MEK1/2-specific inhibitor PD184352 did not, suggesting that ERK5 exerts negative control over BDNF expression. This was supported by experiments in which RNAi-mediated depletion of ERK5 led to an increase in BDNF. In contrast, transfection with constitutively active MEK5 resulted in an inhibition of BDNF expression, confirming the inhibitory role of ERK5 in the regulation of BDNF. Interestingly, transfection with the dominant active mutant of MEK1 (MEKR4F), the upstream activator of ERK1/2, resulted in a modest increase in BDNF levels. Collectively, our data suggest that ERK5 and ERK1/2 exert opposite effects on BDNF expression and support the hypothesis that an imbalance of these two signaling pathways may contribute to the pathology of diseases in which neurotrophin dysregulation is noted.



A mouse model of repeated blast exposure was developed using a compressed air-driven shock tube, to study the increase in severity of traumatic brain injury (bTBI) after multiple blast exposures. Isoflurane anesthetized C57BL/6J mice were exposed to 13.9, 20.6, and 25 psi single blast overpressure (BOP1) and allowed to recover for 5 days. BOP1 at 20.6 psi showed a mortality rate of 2% and this pressure was used for three repeated blast exposures (BOP3) with 1 and 30min intervals. Overall mortality rate in BOP3 was increased to 20%. After blast exposure, righting reflex time and body-weight loss were significantly higher in BOP3 animals compared to BOP1 animals. At 4h, brain edema was significantly increased in BOP3 animals compared to sham controls. Reactive oxygen species in the cortex were increased significantly in BOP1 and BOP3 animals. Neuropathological analysis of the cerebellum and cerebral cortex showed dense silver precipitates in BOP3 animals, indicating the presence of diffuse axonal injury. Fluoro-Jade B staining showed increased intensity in the cortex of BOP3 animals indicating neurodegeneration. Rota Rod behavioral test showed a significant decrease in performance at 10rpm following BOP1 or BOP3 at 2h post-blast, which gradually recovered during the 5 days. At 20rpm, the latency to fall was significantly decreased in both BOP1 and BOP3 animals and it did not recover in the majority of the animals through 5 days of testing. These data suggest that repeated blast exposures lead to increased impairment severity in multiple neurological parameters of TBI in mice.
This study evaluated the injury severity profile of unilateral, frontal penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI) on neurofunctional outcome, blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, and brain edema formation. The degree of injury severity was determined by the delivery of a water-pressure pulse designed to produce a temporary cavity by rapid (&lt;40ms) expansion of the probe's elastic balloon calibrated to equal 5%, 10%, 12.5%, or 15% of total rat brain volume (control groups consisted of sham surgery or insertion of the probe only). Neurofunctional assessments revealed motor and cognitive deficits related to the degree of injury severity, with the most clear-cut profile of PBBI injury severity depicted by the Morris water maze (MWM) results. A biphasic pattern of BBB leakage was detected in the injured hemisphere at all injury severity levels at 4h post-injury, and again at 48-72h post-injury, which remained evident out to 7 days post-PBBI in the 10% and 12.5% PBBI groups. Likewise, significant brain edema was detected in the injured hemisphere by 4h post-injury and remained elevated out to 7 days post-injury in the 10% and 12.5% PBBI groups. However, following 5% PBBI, significant levels of edema were only detected from 24h to 48h post-injury. These results identify an injury severity profile of BBB permeability, brain edema, and neurofunctional impairment that provides sensitive and clinically relevant outcome metrics for studying potential therapeutics.

Non-infectious uveitis is a potentially sight threatening disease. Along the years, several therapeutic strategies have been proposed as a means to its treatment, including local and systemic steroids, immunosuppressives and more recently, biologic agents. The introduction of biologics can be defined as a new era: biologic therapies provide new options for patients with refractory and sight threatening inflammatory disorders. The availability of such novel treatment modalities has markedly improved the therapy of uveitis and considerably increased the possibility of long-term remissions. This article provides a review of current literature on biologic agents, such as tumor necrosis factor blockers, anti-interleukins and other related biologics, such as interferon alpha, for the treatment of uveitis. Several reports describe the efficacy of biologics in controlling a large number of refractory uveitides, suggesting a central role in managing ocular inflammatory diseases. However, there is still lack of randomized controlled trials to validate most of their applications. Biologics are promising drugs for the treatment of uveitis, showing a favorable safety and efficacy profile. On the other hand, lack of evidence from randomized controlled studies limits our understanding as to when commence treatment, which agent to choose, and how long to continue therapy. In addition, high cost and the potential for serious and unpredictable complications have very often limited their use in uveitis refractory to traditional immunosuppressive therapy.
Mandibular motor function is well known to be impaired in the presence of temporomandibular disorders. However, while a vast literature is available concerning accuracy of motor control in limbs, quantitative and objective assessment of mandibular motor control has been seldom performed, also because of the lack of adequate investigative tools. Aim of this work is to present a technique for reliable evaluation of the motor performance of the mandible based on a kinesiography-monitored reach-and-hold task. Nineteen healthy subjects were engaged in a task in which they had to drive a cursor on a screen by corresponding movements of the mandible in the frontal plane and reach 30 random targets sequentially displayed on the screen. The whole task was repeated three times per session in two different days. The individual performance was assessed by different indices evaluating precision and steadiness of target matching. The performance progressively improved in the three trials of the first session, further improved and stabilised in the second session, with an average positioning error of 059  038 mm and was slightly correlated with the horizontal dimension of the mandible border movement (r = 055). Intraclass correlation coefficient ranged between 076 and 094 for the different indices indicating good repeatability. The kinesiographic technique allowed for objective and reliable assessment of the voluntary control of the mandible position. Its potential applications include support to the characterisation of temporomandibular disorders and to motor training and progress monitoring in rehabilitation treatments.


The development of pediatric neurosurgery in this country actually began with holding of the 17(th) Annual Conference of the International Society for Pediatric Neurosurgery (ISPN) in 1989 in Mumbai. It subsequently led to the formation in 1990 of the Indian Society for Pediatric Neurosurgery (IndSPN), which is responsible for organizing regular annual conferences and CMEs in cooperation with the ISPN. The first three international CME programs were arranged in 1992, 1994 and 1995, followed by the next three courses from 1998 to 2000. Subsequently, five more such programs were organized in 2002, 2004, 2007, 2009, and 2010. The official publication, Journal of Pediatric Neurosciences (JPN), which was started in 2006, has also made good progress in the last 5 years. In the last 20 years, the IndSPN has made striking progress in the development and growth of pediatric neurosurgery in the country and has successfully managed to bring this subspeciality to an international level. The IndSPN now has about 150 active members and quite a few of them practice mainly pediatric neurosurgery. In large teaching institutions, pediatric neurosurgery has been accepted as a subspeciality with a designated neurosurgeon taking care of the pediatric patients. This augers well for the subspeciality as persons with greater interest and expertise will be tackling its problems. Some of these institutions have recently started or are in the process of starting the 1-year fellowship training program in pediatric neurosurgery.
To review the clinical features and current understanding of spina bifida with an emphasis on the Indian Scenario. Selected articles and current English language texts were reviewed. The authors experience was also reviewed and analysed. Spina bifida is a common congenital anomaly encompassing a wide spectrum of neural tube defects.It is broadly classified as spina bifida aperta and occulta. With the prenatal screening, the incidence of aperta is gradually declining, whereas the detection of occulta has increased with the advent of magnetic resonance imaging. Over the years, the understanding of pathophysiology has made a significant changein the management of these anomalies. Early detection and complete correction can significantly reduce the neurological disability. This article is an overview of spina bifida with a special emphasis on Indian scenario.

Hydrocephalus is a common clinical problem seen in pediatric neurosurgical practice. Hydrocephalus involves dilatation of the cerebral ventricular system with corresponding, compressive effects on the parenchyma. It can be communicative or obstructive types. Congenital, acquired, infective, and secondary hydrocephalus have different clinical features with different modality of treatments. Ventriculoperitoneal shunt is the gold standard of treatment. Endoscopic 3(rd) ventriculostomy is rapidly gaining prominence as an alternative. Various kinds of hydrocephalus, their pathophysiology, treatment and complications are reviewed.
Cigarette smoking has been associated with several personality and behavioral traits including impulsivity and aggression, primarily in adolescents and/or pregnant women. In this study, the authors tested the hypothesis that history of cigarette smoking is also associated with dimensional measures of aggression and impulsivity in adult subjects. Subjects were 179 personality disordered (PD), and healthy volunteer control (HV), subjects in whom history of cigarette smoking and measures of both aggression and impulsivity were collected. Scores on measures of both aggression and impulsivity were elevated as a function of personality disorder status and history of cigarette smoking status; no interaction between these two factors were noted on these measures. Including socio-economic status and global psychosocial functioning in the model eliminated the difference associated with diagnostic grouping and impulsivity but not the difference in aggression associated with lifetime history of smoking. These data suggest that lifetime history of cigarette smoking is associated with elevations in life history of aggression regardless of the presence of psychiatric disorder in nontreatment seeking individuals.
Phosphodiesterase 10A (PDE10A) inhibitors have recently been proposed as a new therapy for schizophrenia. The aim of this study was to enhance our understanding of the role of PDE10A inhibitors and potentially identify a clinically useful mechanistic/functional biomarker by using 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) autoradiography. PDE10A inhibitors papaverine (10 and 40 mg/kg), 6,7-dimethoxy-4-[(3R)-3-(2-quinoxalinyloxy)-1-pyrrolidinyl]quinazoline (PQ-10), (0.16-10 mg/kg), and 2-[{4-(1-methyl-4-pyridin-4-yl-1H-pyrazol-3-yl)phenoxy}methyl]quinoline (MP-10) (0.16-40 mg/kg) induced region-specific hypermetabolism in the globus pallidus and lateral habenula of C57BL/6 mice. Studies with MP-10 revealed a dose-dependent relative increase in globus pallidus activation, whereas a bell-shaped curve was observed for the lateral habenula. Although the relative increase in 2-DG uptake in the lateral habenula was also characteristic of the D(2) antagonist haloperidol (0.01-0.63 mg/kg), relative 2-DG changes were absent in the globus pallidus. This observation probably is explained by the interaction of PDE10A inhibitors with the D(1) direct pathway as suggested by experiments in combination with the D(1) agonist ()-6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide (SKF-82958) (0.16 mg/kg). The absence of an effect of MP-10 (2.5 mg/kg) on relative glucose metabolism in the globus pallidus and lateral habenula of PDE10A knockout mice confirmed the specificity of the signal induced by PDE10A inhibitors. These studies substantiate the regulatory role of PDE10A in the basal ganglia circuit and as such support the potential of PDE10A inhibitors for treating psychiatric disorders. Moreover, we could differentiate PDE10A inhibitors from haloperidol based on specific patterns of hypermetabolism probably caused by its combined action at both direct and indirect dopaminergic pathways. Finally, these specific changes in brain glucose metabolism may act as a translational biomarker for target engagement in future clinical studies.
Involuntary psychiatric admissions are widespread among patients with an immigrant background. According to a study in Norway, involuntary admissions are about 75% of admissions among immigrants compared to roughly 50% among ethnic Norwegians. The aim of the present study was to compare clinical and demographic characteristics of immigrant patients with involuntary or voluntary admissions to two acute psychiatric units. A 3-year prospective study of 94 immigrant patients involuntarily and voluntarily admitted to acute psychiatric units was carried out. Sixty-two patients (66.0%) were voluntarily and 30 (31.9%) involuntarily admitted. Involuntary admissions were significantly higher among men (22, 73.3%) compared to women (8, 26.7%; (2) = 4.507, d.f. = 1, P= 0.03). The mean length of stay for voluntary and involuntary patients were 7.8 (SD = 6.6) and 21.6 (SD = 27.3; t=-2.7, d.f. = 88, P= 0.01). Patients diagnosed with schizophrenia and psychotic disorder were more often admitted involuntarily (63.0%; (2) = 17.83, P= 0.001). This study confirms that immigrant patients diagnosed with psychotic disorders are more often involuntarily than voluntarily admitted. Comparing the clinical and demographic characteristics of immigrants helps identify the reasons behind involuntary admissions and might improve efforts towards reducing such admissions in the future.
High frequency stimulation (HFS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is the neurosurgical therapy of choice for the management of motor deficits in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease, but this treatment can elicit disabling mood changes. Our recent experiments show that in rats, HFS of the STN both inhibits the firing of 5-HT (5-hydroxytryptamine; serotonin) neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and elicits 5-HT-dependent behavioral effects. The neural circuitry underpinning these effects is unknown. Here we investigated in the dopamine-denervated rat the effect of bilateral HFS of the STN on markers of neuronal activity in the DRN as well as DRN input regions. Controls were sham-stimulated rats. HFS of the STN elicited changes in two 5-HT-sensitive behavioral tests. Specifically, HFS increased immobility in the forced swim test and increased interaction in a social interaction task. HFS of the STN at the same stimulation parameters, increased c-fos immunoreactivity in the DRN, and decreased cytochrome C oxidase activity in this region. The increase in c-fos immunoreactivity occurred in DRN neurons immunopositive for the GABA marker parvalbumin. HFS of the STN also increased the number of c-fos immunoreactive cells in the lateral habenula nucleus, medial prefrontal cortex but not significantly in the substantia nigra. Collectively, these findings support a role for circuitry involving DRN GABA neurons, as well as DRN afferents from the lateral habenula nucleus and medial prefrontal cortex, in the mood effects of HFS of the STN.
Aberrant transcriptional regulation may be one of the key components of the pathophysiology of mood disorders. DNA methylation generally acts as an epigenetic gene silencing mechanism and is catalyzed by a group of enzymes known as DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs). Several lines of evidence have suggested aberrant DNA methylation in patients with neuropsychiatric disorders and in animal models for psychiatric disorders. However, the involvement of DNMTs in the pathophysiology of mood disorders is not completely understood. In this study, we aimed to determine whether there are alterations in the expression of DNMTs mRNA in mood disorder patients. We used quantitative real-time PCR to measure the mRNA expression of four DNMT isoforms in the peripheral white blood cells of major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BPD) patients during a depressive and a remissive episode. We found that the levels of DNMT1 mRNA were significantly decreased in a depressive but not in a remissive state of MDD and BPD. In addition, the levels of DNMT3B mRNA in MDD were significantly increased in a depressive but not in a remissive state. Thus, our data suggest that the altered expression of DNMTs is state dependent and that the aberrant epigenetic gene regulations caused by the altered expression of DNMT1 and DNMT3B may be associated with the pathophysiology of mood disorders.
Affective disorders are among the main causes of disability worldwide, yet the underlying pathophysiology remains poorly understood. Recently, landmark neuroimaging studies have shown increased metabolic activity in Brodmann Area 25 (BA25) in depressed patients. Moreover, functional inactivation of this region using deep brain stimulation alleviated depressive symptoms in severely depressed patients. Thus, we examined the effect of a similar manipulation, pharmacological inactivation of the infralimbic cortex, the rodent correlate of BA25, in an animal model of antidepressant activity: the modified rat forced swim test. Transient inactivation of the infralimbic cortex using muscimol reduced immobility, an antidepressant-like effect in the test. Importantly, this activity was not the result of a general increase in locomotor activity. Activation of the infralimbic cortex using bicuculline did not alter behaviour. Finally, we examined the effect of muscimol in animals bred for high anxiety-related behaviour, which also display elevated depression-related behaviour. Transient inactivation of the infralimbic cortex decreased the high inborn depression-like behaviour of these rats. These results show that it is possible to replicate findings from a clinical trial in a rodent model. Further, they support the use of the forced swim test to gain greater understanding of the neurocircuitry involved in depression and antidepressant-action.

